The University Library Leeds :tion LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: COO KM] h fili 0106 01107 2864 COOKERY! I i j i \ i,■% THE MODERN COOKMACMILLAN AND CO., Limited LONDON • BOMBAY • CALCUTTA MELBOURNE THE MACMILLAN COMPANY NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO ATLANTA • SAN FRANCISCO THE MACMILLAN CO. OF CANADA, Ltd. TORONTOTHE MODERN COOK BY CHARLES ELME FRANCATELLI EDITED BY C. HERMAN SENN, G.CA. MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED ST. MARTIN’S STREET, LONDON 191 iCOPYRIGHT s iqtOf£PREFACE CHARLES ElmE Francatelli was an earnest and gifted worker in the cause of gastronomy, and his great work, The Modern Cook, compiled nearly three-quarters of a century ago, faithfully reflects the dining habits of our Victorian ancestors, and the nature of their dietary. Everything was good and solid of its kind, even if tending towards complica- tion rather than simplicity. The great joints, decorated with their silver hatelet skewers bearing cocks’ combs and trufflets, were attended by the most appetising ragouts and garnishes. The essence and sauces were wonderful prepara- tions of the most heterogeneous of ingredients, and combined with rare subtlety. No pains were spared to please the eye by embellishing the outer surface of the ornamental timbales and casseroles and dressed entrees, or to gratify the palate by the excellence of their contents. There was, further- more, nothing meretricious or deceptive in the savoury promises held out by Victorian comestibles. Even Paper Bag Cookery finds its counterpart in The Modern Cook, in the numerous recipes for mullets, trout, sweetbreads, ortolans, etc., “ in cases,” or “ en papillottes.” But even whilst PTancatelli was committing to paper the results of a laborious lifetime devoted to progress in culinary matters, a transformation was creeping over the nature of his art. Thanks to improvements in agriculture, greater facilities in rapid transport and closer communica- tion with our Continental neighbours, our dietary had already begun to shed some of its grosser characteristics.THE MODERN COOK VI The excessive meat eating- was gradually being supplanted by dishes of a more vegetarian nature, and the elaborate dining habits of the nation were being replaced by earlier hours and simpler courses. This beneficial alteration has happily continued, so that now, in the twentieth century, much that Francatelli wrote about in 1845 is no longer needed. His work, however, was laid upon enduring foundations which will remain to posterity. Francatelli was a good culinary architect, and though in the present revised edition efforts have been made, in accordance with modern require- ments, to introduce greater economy in the use of the various ingredients, and additional recipes for the preparation of fruit and vegetables little appreciated fifty or sixty years ago, as well as a simplification of the bill of fare or menu section, yet the main body of standard dishes remain practically as Francatelli wrote them, the substantial edifice of the author’s genius. C. HERMAN SENN. 1911.vii INTRODUCTION To those who are interested in gastronomy there are few more fascinating subjects for study than the evolution of modern culinary art from the cookery of our ancestors. Many and surprising changes have been brought about within recent centuries in this department of human taste. These changes have been directed to the refinement, often the simplification, of dietary and the accessory arts of the kitchen, and herein we have made wonderful progress. Nevertheless, in spite of the crudity, even coarseness, of some of the foods and most of the ideas of cooking prevailing among people of bygone ages, the records and recipes of those times are still capable of giving the fastidious gourmet of the twentieth century many a delightful surprise. To our modern eyes the most striking omission in ancient cookery books was the ignoring of light side-dishes, especially those of vegetable and fruit, which form such a feature of present-day dietary. A study of the gargantuan feasts and the daily menus of medieval England and pre- Revolution France discloses to what an enormous extent flesh foods were consumed in proportion to vegetables and fruit. Vegetables were more prized for their medicinal qualities than for their dietetic value, and even where most carefully cultivated they were seldom eaten. This, of course, had a marked effect on the general health ; inflammatory and skin diseases became rife in consequence, and leprosy was frequent—a condition aggravated by the habitual con- sumption during long months of the year of salted and smoked meats. If, however, we dwell upon this gross preponderance of flesh over all other forms of food, we are bound to admit that the cooking processes of our forefathers wereTHE MODERN COOK via distinguished for simplicity and cleanliness. Roasting and boiling were the chief means of preparation, and there is every reason to believe that in these two modes many of the fine effects which we achieve with our elaborate and extensive range of kitchen appliances were gained in the olden days with far simpler utensils. Be this as it may, there are innumerable examples in old French cookery books, especially of roast and boiled dishes, which would be greatly appreciated even to-day. The discovery of new foods, and the widening of our dietary by an appreciation of food values, together with the invention of scientific means of preparing them properly, has practically revolutionised the old kitchen processes, and certainly made the ancient “ recipe book ” on the whole the most archaic class of compilations in existence. Science, mainly that of chemistry, improvement of fuel, including the introduction of gas and electricity into kitchens, have all contributed to modify and amplify the menu in one direction or another. But the chief change has, of course, been brought about by the march of human intelligence and accompanying modification of taste in matters of food. In all ages, however, there have been ardent workers, often in advance of their time, who have given serious study to the theory and practice of cooking. It is to these, who, selecting and improving upon primitive methods, evolved order out of chaos, that we owe the substantial foundation of our art- science. One generation or another of these workers has handed down to us what may justly be termed certain standard methods and dishes, which, when all is said and done, form the basis of modern practice, and the point of departure of modern progress. We must, therefore, not only know, but learn to appreciate the views of our pre- decessors and their efforts in this branch, and an all- important one it is, of human activity. So while con- temporary cookery manuals prove the best index of an age’s or a nation’s preferences and limitations, it is felt that in translating for the benefit of English readers some of the best and most typical foreign recipes of past times, a real service is being done to what may be styled “ The Com- parative Study of Gastronomy.” q jj gIX CONTENTS PAGE Common Stock and Stock Sauces ..... i Sauces in General ....... 3 Vegetable Purges for Garnishing Entries, Removes, etc. . 26 Vegetables for Garnishing. . . . . . 31 Essences, Gravies, and Prepared Savoury Butters for Finish- ing Sauces, etc. . . . . . . .40 RagoOts and Garnishes in General . . . -43 Broths, Consommes, etc. . . . . . -49 Soups for Invalids . . . . . . -52 Light Soups and Panadas for Infants and Invalids . . 54 Braises, Po£les, Mirepoix, etc. . . . . -55 Quenelle Force-Meats in General . . . -58 Consommes and Clear Soups in General . . . .62 Vegetable Puree Soups . . . . . - 73 Soups made with Rice or Pearl Barley . . . .82 Bisques and Shellfish Soups . . . . .84 Fish Soups and Water Souchets in General . . .88 Typical English Soups . . . . . .92 Purees of Poultry and Game ..... 100 National Soups ....... 103 Dressed Fish in General . . . . . .111 Fish Entrees ........ 155 Removes of Beef . . . . . . .163 Braised and Roast Fillets of Beef .... 166 Boiled and Stewed Briskets, Aitchbones, Rounds, and Ribs of Beef . . . . . . . .170 Removes of Veal . . . . . . 174 Removes of Legs, Loins, and Necks of Mutton . . . 181 Removes of Lamb ....... 185 Calves’-Head and Ox-Cheeks, etc. . . . .188 Removes of Pork and Roast Sucking-Pig. . . . 193X THE MODERN COOK Braised and Baked Ham , PAGE 196 Removes of Venison, Red Deer, and Roebuck 200 Removes of Turkey and Capon 204 Removes and Entrees of Goose 208 Meat Pies ..... 21 1 Meat Puddings .... 214 Black Game and Grouse 216 Raised Pies and Patties 217 Vol-au-Vents and Tourtes . 220 Timbales of Macaroni 223 Casseroles and Borders of Rice . 223 Ornamental Potato Borders 225 Vegetable and Force-Meat Chartreuses . 226 Ornamental Croustades of Bread. 229 Turbans and Mazarines 231 Entries of Beef .... 233 Entrees of Mutton .... 244 Entrees of Veal .... 255 Sweetbreads, etc. .... 262 Entrees of Lamb .... 26S Entrees of Pork .... 273 Entrees of Venison .... 276 Entrees of Poultry .... 278 Chicken as Remove or Entree CO Cl Entrees of Pigeons and Ducks 304 Entrees of Quails and Larks 311 Entrees of Rabbit and Hare 3i5 Pheasants ..... 320 Partridges ..... 326 Entrees of Woodcock, Snipe, and Ortolan 332 Entries of Wild Duck and Widgeon 334 Roasts ...... 33<3 Vegetables and Salads 339 Side-Dishes—Hors-d’ceuvre and Savouries 359 Eggs, Omelets, and Farinaceous Dishes . 373 Sandwiches ..... 381 Cold Raised Meat and Game Pies, etc. . 3S6 Pastes for Pies, Timbales, etc. 39i Vol-au-Vent, Tourte, and Patty Cases . 394 Cakes in General .... 397 Tarts and Fancy Pastries . 4i5 Friiters ..... 425CONTENTS xi PAGE Ice Puddings and Fancy Sweets ..... 428 Rice Cakes and Timbales ...... 438 Souffles in General ...... 440 Omelets and Pancakes ...... 442 Puddings in General ...... 444 Jellies and Fruit Dishes .... • . 452 Creams and Charlottes .... . . 459 Auxiliary Recipes ....... 468 Specimen Menus of Dinners for every Month throughout the Year ........ 473 Wine Cups, etc. ....... 509 Glossary . . . . . . . 513 Index . . . . . . . . .521B I COMMON STOCK AND STOCK SAUCES Common Stock, or Foundation Stock for General Purposes When about to prepare for the reception of company it is advis- able to begin, if there be sufficient time, two days beforehand in summer, or three days in winter, by getting ready the foundation stock—an article so essential to all the after preparations, that it may be looked upon as the basis of operations. The meat required for this purpose should be sent in overnight if possible. The quantity to be ordered must, of course, depend upon the extent of the dinner-party and the number of courses. To make 2 gallons of general stock, allow 1 lb. of veal (knuckle part), 2 lbs. shin of beef (or shoulder part), and 3^ lbs. bones (beaf or veal); 2 oz. salt, 2 carrots, 2 onions, 3 leeks, 1 head of celery, 2 cloves stuck in the onions, 12 peppercorns, and 1 small bunch of sweet herbs, bay-leaves, thyme, and parsley. Method.—Cut all the meat away from the bones. Break up the bones, and put both into the stock-pot. Add the salt and water (cold) and let it come gently to the boil. Skim well, and add the vegetables and herbs. When the broth has simmered gently for five hours, strain it through a broth napkin into large kitchen basins to cool, and place them in the larder for the next day’s use. In connection with this subject I will now describe the prepara- tion of the two foundation stock sauces, Espagnole and Veloute, as these, being the basis of the various special sauces used in modern cookery, should, together with the foundation stock, be first attended to. Stock Sauces, Brown and White1 The first thing to be attended to on the following morning is to “mark off” or prepare the stock sauces, viz. the Espagnole or brown sauce, and the Velouffi or white sauce, in the following manner:— Take two large stew-pans, well tinned and thoroughly clean; spread the bottom of each with three ounces fresh butter, over which lay about two ounces of lean ham cut in slices ; and the same amount of veal in 1 Although great care and watchful attention are requisite in every branch of the culinary art, the exercise of these qualities is most essential in the preparation of the foundation stock sauces. If the first process which these undergo be not successfully effected, no subsequent care will remedy the mischief. IS2 THE MODERN COOK equal proportion to each stew-pan. The carcase of a wild rabbit may also be added to the brown sauce, and to the white sauce the carcase of an old fowl. Pour into each pan two quarts of stock; place the pans, with their covers on, on brisk fires, and let them boil sharply till the broth is nearly reduced to a half glaze; then take them off the fire immediately, and slacken the stove ; after which, replace the pans on the fire, adding to the brown sauce quarter of a pound of glaze, to be reduced together with the stock, by which it will acquire a redder hue; it will also accelerate its progress,—a point of great importance, —for if sauces or broths remain too long on the fire the delicacy of their flavour is sure to be impaired. As soon as the broth of the white sauce is reduced to the con- sistency of pale glaze1 fill it up with one pint of stock, garnish it with a good-sized carrot, one onion, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a garnished faggot or bouquet made of parsley, a bay-leaf, and thyme, tied together neatly. Set it on the stove to boil; skim it well, and then place it to simmer gently at the side of the stove. Pay strict attention to the brown sauce in order to prevent the possibility of its being caught by the fire in the least degree. Such an accident always tends to lessen its smoothness. Ascertain when the brown sauce is sufficiently glazed by dipping the end of a knife into it, twirling the handle round in the hand so as to take up a quantity of glaze on the point of the blade; if you can then roll it into a ball without its sticking to the fingers, and it is of a chestnut-brown colour, you may proceed to fill it up in exactly the same manner as described for the white sauce. About two hours after the above-mentioned operations have been attended to, pass the broths through napkins into large kitchen basins. Then pour two ounces roux or thickening into the stew-pans to be used for mixing each of these sauces; take off all the fat, and pour the brown broth upon brown roux, and the white broth upon white roux. While the sauces are being mixed they should be well stirred. When thoroughly mixed, they must be kept sufficiently liquid to enable them (after boiling on the stove-fire, and while they are simmering on the side) to throw up the whole of the butter with which the roux was made, together with the scum, by which means they assume a velvety appearance, from which the white sauce takes its name Veloute. Finally, add a large tablespoonful of white chicken broth to the white sauce, and the same quantity of consomme to the brown sauce ; let them clarify for about twenty minutes longer; and then, if suffi- ciently reduced, pass them through the tammy cloths into white basins, and put them away in the larder for future use. 1 When time presses, or the veal used for this purpose is not white, the process of boiling down to a glaze, recommended above, may be dispensed with ; and, conse- quently, the white broth or water added at once.SAUCES IN GENERAL 3 SAUCES IN GENERAL FOUNDATION SAUCES Espagnole or Brown Sauce1 Let the stock Espagnole (see p. i) be turned out into a large stew-pan, adding thereto one tablespoonful of essence of mushrooms, and half a pint of veal stock to enable the sauce to clarify itself; stir it over the fire till it boils, and then set it down by the side to continue boiling gently. When the sauce has thoroughly cleared itself, by gentle simmering, and assumes a bright velvety smoothness, reduce it over a brisk fire to the desired consistency, and then pass it through a tammy for use. White Veloute Sauce1 To finish this sauce, proceed in every respect the same as for the Espagnole, substituting rich white stock made of veal or fowls for the veal stock, in order to clarify it; and the essence of mushrooms must be white in order to prevent the sauce from taking a dark hue, contrary to its special character. Bechamel Sauce Divide the Veloute sauce (according to the quantity required) into three parts; put one-third into a stew-pan, and, having reduced it, add to it a gill (more or less) of boiling cream; after allowing the sauce to boil a few minutes longer, stirring it the whole time, pass it through the tammy into a basin, or bain-marie,2 for use. Cream Bechamel Sauce Put two ounces of fresh butter into a medium-sized stew-pan ; add one and a half ounces of sifted flour, some nutmeg, a few peppercorns, and a little salt; knead the whole well together; then cut one carrot and one onion into very thin slices, place them into the stew-pan, and also a bouquet of parsley, thyme, and half a bay-leaf, tied together; next moisten these with a pint of white broth and half a pint of cream ; and, having stirred the sauce over the fire for about half an hour, pass it through the tammy into a basin for use. This sauce is not expensive, neither does it require much time or trouble to make. It is very useful as a substitute for Veloute or other white sauces, as also for many other purposes, as will be shown hereafter. Allemande Sauce Reduce one and a half pints of white Veloute sauce intended for the Allemande over a brisk fire, adding a dessertspoonful of essence of 1 These two foundation sauces differ from the stock Espagnole and Veloutd, in being worked or finished sauces. 2 This is a French term for a large open vessel, half filled with hot water, holding a distinct set of copper sauce-pans, tinned both inside and outside, and used only for the Special Hot Sauces when finished.THE MODERN COOK 4 mushrooms or some mushroom trimmings; when the sauce is sufficiently reduced take it off the stove, and incorporate with it a liaison of yolks of eggs (in the proportion of four yolks to a pint), a little nutmeg, a dessertspoonful of cream, a pat of butter, and a tea- spoonful of lemon juice ; set the liaison in the sauce by stirring it over the fire until it simmers; it must then be quickly stirred to keep the sauce from boiling, as, in that case, the yolks of eggs would be liable to curdle, which would considerably deteriorate from its quality. When the liaison is set, pass the sauce through a tammy into a basin, or bain-marie, for use. This sauce is in much request as the foundation of many others, especially fish sauces. HOT SAUCES Madeira or Madere Sauce Put one glass of sherry or Madeira into a stew-pan with a tea- spoonful of essence of truffles and a pinch of cayenne ; reduce these to half their original quantity, then add a gill of finished Espagnole sauce; let it boil for five minutes longer, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Turtle Sauce, for Calf’s Head Put one glass of Madeira into a stew-pan with a teaspoonful of red Tomato sauce and a pinch of cayenne ; reduce these to half their quantity, then add a gill of Espagnole or brown sauce, and a dessert- spoon of essence of mushrooms; having stirred this over the fire until it boils, set it by the side to clarify; skim it thoroughly, and reduce it to a proper consistency; pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie ; and, just before using this sauce, mix in two anchovies (that have been pounded with a very small piece of fresh butter, and passed through a tammy) with a teaspoonful of lemon juice. The addition of Turtle Herbs improves this sauce considerably. Salmi Sauce Place the trimmings of the birds of which the salmis is to be made in a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of salad oil, two shalots, one bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme; leave these on the fire for five minutes; add one glass of any sort of good white wine; reduce this to half its quantity, add a gill of Espagnole and some mushroom trimmings or essence; set the sauce to boil, and then put it by the side of the stove to clarify. Having well skimmed it, pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, pouring a small portion of the sauce on the members of the birds to keep them moist and to warm them in. Salmi Sauce a l’Ancienne Chop the trimmings of the birds that have been roasted for an entree (woodcocks or snipes are generally chosen for this purpose); place the trimmings in a stew-pan, with three shalots, a little thyme,S SAUCES IN GENERAL a bay-leaf, and two glasses of red wine (claret is preferable); simmer these over the fire for ten minutes, add a gill of game stock and half a gill of reduced Espagnole sauce ; stir this on the fire until it boils, and then place it by the fire to clear itself; ten minutes after skim it thoroughly, and, having reduced it to the consistency of a thin glaze, pass it through a tammy on to the members of the birds. Just before dishing up, add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Brown Italian Sauce Chop four shalots very fine, place them in a corner of a clean napkin, securing them tightly, and immerse them in cold water to extract their acrid taste; squeeze out the water and put them into a stew-pan with a handful of white mushrooms chopped very fine, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, and a tablespoonful of salad oil; stir these on the fire for five minutes, add one glass of white wine, and, when this is reduced to half its quantity, then add a gill of finished Espagnole and a gill of veal stock ; set the sauce to boil; and, having freed it from the oil, take out the thyme and bay-leaf; reduce it to the consistency of other sauces, and pour it into a bain-marie to be kept for use. White Italian Sauce The preparation of this sauce differs from the preceding only in substituting Velout^ sauce for Espagnole. Colbert or Fine Herbs Sauce Chop, separately, a large tablespoonful of prepared white mush- rooms, three shalots, and a handful of parsley ; place these in a stew- pan with an ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of mignonette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; stir the whole on the fire for five minutes, add a gill of finished Espagnole or Veloute sauce (according to the colour required); boil it quickly, finish with a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. Pascaline Sauce Chop a handful of white mushrooms very fine, and place them in a small stew-pan with an ounce of butter ; stir them on the fire for three minutes ; add a glass of French white wine, and, after allowing these to simmer on the fire a little while, add a gill of white sauce and a gill of chicken stock ; reduce the sauce quickly, and then take it off the stove and mix in a liaison of three yolks of eggs, and a small pat of butter; set the liaison in the sauce over the fire, and then pour it into a bain-marie for use. Just before using the sauce, add to it a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. D’Uxelles Sauce Chop, separately, a handful of mushrooms, a teaspoonful of parsley, two shalots, and half an ounce of truffles ; place these in a stew-pan with one ounce of fat bacon scraped into a kind of pulp, a pat of butter, some pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; then stir theTHE MODERN COOK 6 whole on the fire for five minutes. Add two glasses of French white wine, reduced by boiling to half the quantity, and then a gill of white sauce; reduce the whole quickly on the fire, and mix in a liaison of two yolks of eggs ; finish with a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Set the liaison in the sauce by stirring it again on the fire; place the sauce in a small basin, and keep it for the purpose of covering all those entrees denominated k la d’Uxelles, previously to bread- crumbing them. Poor Man’s Sauce Chop an onion very fine, put it into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, and gently fry the onion on the fire until it assumes a light- brown colour; then add a tablespoonful of white wine vinegar and a pinch of mignonette pepper; allow these to simmer for three minutes, and then add a gill of veal stock or consomme ; let the whole be reduced to half the original quantity, and just before using the sauce throw in a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Piquante Sauce Chop separately three shalots, as many green gherkins, and a tablespoonful of French capers ; place these in a small stew-pan with a gill of French vinegar, a sprig of thyme and a bay-leaf, and a good pinch of mignonette pepper; set the whole to boil on the fire till the vinegar is reduced to a half of its original quantity; then add a gill of finished Espagnole sauce and a gill of veal stock; let the sauce boil gently on the side of the stove-fire to clear itself; skim it well, take out the thyme and bay-leaf, and pour it into a small bain- marie for use. Gherkin Sauce Take four green gherkins ; cut them into very thin slices ; place them in a small stew-pan with a tablespoonful of French vinegar and a pinch of mignonette pepper; allow these to simmer quickly for a few minutes on the fire, then add a gill of brown sauce and a gill of veal stock ; stir the sauce on the stove till it boils, then set it by the side to clear itself; skim it, and pour it into a bain-marie for use. White Ravigote Sauce Put into a small stew-pan one tablespoonful of Chili vinegar, the same quantities of tarragon vinegar and of Harvey sauce; reduce these, by boiling, to half the quantity; then add a gill of good Bdchamel sauce, or, if not at hand, the same quantity of white sauce; finish by mixing in one ounce of fresh butter, and just before using the sauce throw in a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. When white sauce is used instead of Bechamel, a little cream must be added. Green Ravigote Sauce Wash and blanch some chervil, parsley, tarragon, and chives (of each a teaspoonful), and also a little burnet; cool these in fresh water as soon as they are blanched, and thoroughly extract the waterSAUCES IN GENERAL 7 by pressing them in a napkin; pound the herbs thus prepared in a mortar, with two ounces of butter ; after which rub them through a fine sieve with a wooden spoon, and place in a small basin, to be kept on ice or in a cool place. About five minutes before requiring the sauce for use put into a small stew-pan a gill of Allemande, and, when thoroughly warmed, mix in with it the prepared Ravigote, in sufficient quantity to give a bright-green colour to the sauce; add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and the same quantities of Chili vinegar and of Harvey sauce, previously reduced, by boiling, to half the quantity. This sauce is very generally used for fillets of fish. Tomato Sauce Procure a pound of fine ripe tomatoes, and, having first picked off the stalks, extract the seeds and watery parts by squeezing them separately in the hand ; then place them in a stew-pan containing one ounce of raw ham cut into dice, two shalots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, fried in one and a half ounces of butter until they become brown; put the tomatoes with these on the fire until they are melted; then, after having passed them through the tammy into a pur£e, mix the produce with half a pint of Veloute sauce, a small teaspoonful of glaze, and half a pint of consomme; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side of the stove to continue boiling gently, that it may clear itself; skim it thoroughly, and pour it into a bain- marie for use. It is perhaps needless to observe that, when the ready-prepared Tomato sauce is used, as must be the case when tomatoes are not in season, it will be necessary only to attend to the latter part of the foregoing directions. Perigueux Sauce Chop three or four truffles extremely fine, put them into a stew-pan with one glass of white wine, an ounce of lean ham, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf; set these to boil gently on the stove-fire for a few minutes, then add a gill of brown sauce and a gill of consomme; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim it well, take out the ham, the bay-leaf, the thyme, and, after reducing it to a proper consistency, pour it into a bain- marie for use. Just before dinner-time, add an ounce of butter to soften the flavour. Lyonnaise Sauce Peel two Spanish onions, cut them in halves, trim off the ends so as to leave the onions an inch and a half thick; slice them across that the pieces may separate at the junction of the several folds, or layers, of the onion; fry them in a deep saute-pan, in a gill of salad oil; as soon as they assume a fine light colour, drain them on a hair-sieve, and afterwards lay them on a napkin in order to extract all the oil; after which put them into a small stew-pan with a goodTHE MODERN COOK 8 pinch of mignonette pepper, a gill of reduced brown sauce, and a teaspoonful of glaze; set the sauce to boil gently for a quarter of an hour, and finish by adding a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Prover^ale Sauce Cut one ounce of the lean part of a ham into very small dice, place them in a small stew-pan with one tablespoonful of salad oil, four cloves of garlic, a sprig of thyme, a bay-leaf, a teaspoonful of capers, the pulp of a lemon cut into slices, a good pinch of mignon- ette pepper, and a few parsley stalks; stir these on the fire for five minutes, then add a gill of reduced brown sauce and a teaspoonful of glaze. Boil the sauce on a quick fire for a few minutes longer, and then pass it through a tammy as you would a puree; remove it into a stew-pan, add a gill of consomme, and set it to boil gently by the side of the stove for a few minutes; skim it, and pour it into a bain-marie; finish by adding a teaspoonful of anchovy butter. Venetian Sauce Prepare half a pint of Allemande sauce for the purpose required, and, just before dinner-time, add a good teaspoonful of tarragon leaves cut into diamond shapes and blanched green, one ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar. Bretonne Sauce Cut two large onions into thin slices; fry them to a light-brown colour in a little butter; then add half a pint of brown sauce, accord- ing to the quantity required, a gill of consomme, and a pinch of pepper; boil the sauce gently for a quarter of an hour, and then pass it, as you would a puree, through the tammy, and put it into a bain- marie for use. Bourguignote Sauce Put four shalots, two cloves, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, and bay-leaf, together with two glasses of red wine and some mush- room-trimmings, into a stew-pan on the fire, there to boil for five minutes; add a gill of brown sauce and rather less of consomme ; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it on the side to clear itself; skim it, reduce it to its proper consistency, and then pass it through the tammy into a bain-marie. Poivrade Sauce Take a small carrot, a small onion, and a head of celery; cut them into very small dice, and place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of raw lean ham cut similarly, a sprig of thyme and a bay-leaf, a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, and some sprigs of parsley ; fry these with one ounce of butter to a light brown colour ; moisten with one glass of sherry and half of French vinegar; reduce the above to one-half its quantity, and then add a gill of brown sauce and rather less of consommd; stir the sauce till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain- marie for use.SAUCES IN GENERAL 9 Genoise Sauce Cut one ounce of ham, small carrot, celery, small onion, parsley roots, and three or four mushrooms into very thin slices ; place these in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a sprig of thyme and a bay- leaf, a blade of mace, and two cloves, and fry them on the stove for a few minutes ; moisten with a glass of red wine (claret suits best). Boil the whole for five minutes; add a gill of brown sauce and a gill of consomme; stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and then set it to clarify by the side of the stove-fire; skim it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Just before dinner-time add a small piece of anchovy butter, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and squeeze of lemon juice. Matelote Sauce Take half a pint of fish stock and wine in which fish has been stewed, and add to it a gill of brown sauce and some trimmings, or half a gill of essence of mushrooms ; stir this on the fire till it boils, and then set it by the side to clear itself; skim and reduce it, and then pass it into a bain-marie; finish by adding a little anchovy butter, grated nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Norman Matelote Sauce Reduce half a pint of white Velout£ sauce with half a gill of essence of mushrooms, one glass of French white wine, and a quarter of a pint of liquor from the mussels and oysters used for the matelote ; add a liaison of three yolks of eggs, a pat of butter, some nutmeg, and squeeze of lemon juice ; and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Bigarade Sauce With the carcase of one roasted duck make one pint of essence, clarify it, and reduce it to half glaze. To this add a small teaspoonful of worked Espagnole, the juice of one orange, and the rind of one entirely free from any portion of the white pith; and, having cut the rind into diamond shapes, blanch these pieces for three minutes in boiling water, and then put them into the sauce, which, after boiling for five minutes, pour into a bain-marie for use. Aromatic Sauce Put into a small stew-pan a few sprigs of winter-savory, of sweet basil, and lemon thyme, six leaves of sage and two bay-leaves, two shalots, some nutmeg and pepper, and half a pint of good consommd ; boil this quickly on the fire for ten minutes; pass it through a sieve into a stew-pan, and reduce it with an equal proportion of white sauce; add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and pass the sauce into a bain-marie containing half-a-dozen stewed morels. Just before using this sauce add a pat of butter, some lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched tarragon and chervil.IO THE MODERN COOK Russian Sauce Having chopped and blanched a little tarragon, chervil, and parsley in equal oroportions, put these into one pint of reduced Veloute sauce thickened with two yolks of eggs. Just before using the sauce add a little grated horse-radish, a pinch of sugar, some pepper, lemon juice, and a little mustard. This sauce is eaten with braised beef. Atelets Sauce Cut one ounce of raw lean of ham into very small mince-meat; put it into a small stew-pan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, one shalot chopped, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of mignonette pepper; moisten with a gill of consomme, and set the whole to simmer on the fire for ten minutes; after which add half a pint of white sauce, and, having reduced it to a proper consistency, mix in a liaison of two yolks of eggs and a pat of butter; finish with a little lemon juice, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a basin. This sauce is used for covering all preparations for those entrees denominated k la Villeroi or a la Dauphine previously to their being dipped in the beaten egg for the purpose of being bread- crumbed. Polish Sauce Scrape a tablespoonful of horse-radish and put it into three- quarters of a pint of Allemande sauce with a teaspoonful of pounded sugar, the grated rind of one lemon, nutmeg, pepper, squeeze of lemon juice, a teaspoonful of glaze, and a little salt. Previous to using the sauce add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley and fennel. This sauce is eaten with roast veal. Supreme Sauce There are two methods by which this sauce may be made with equal success; that most generally adopted is, to use a pint of reduced Veloute sauce which has been worked with a gill of essence of mushrooms and white consomme of fowls, and finished by adding a tablespoonful of cream at the last stage of reduction. The sauce should be then passed through a tammy into a bain-marie, and just before using it a small teaspoonful of chicken glaze, a pat of fresh butter, and a little lemon juice must be added. The other method, and which I prefer to the former, is to put a pint of Allemande sauce into a bain-marie, and finish it for the purpose by mixing in a teaspoonful of chicken glaze, one ounce of fresh butter, and a little lemon juice ; care must be taken that the Supreme sauce be not thick. Sauce of Game Supreme This is made like the previous sauce, except that, according to the first method, some essence of game must be used instead of the chicken consomme, and in the second recipe the Allemande sauceSAUCES IN GENERAL 11 used for the purpose should be worked with an essence of game (pheasant or partridge), and also finished with a little game glaze. Parisian Sauce Put one pint of Allemande sauce into a bain-marie, adding to it a teaspoonful of essence of truffles, a little game or chicken glaze, according to the purpose for which the sauce may be required, whether for an entree made of game or poultry; add one and a half ounces of crayfish butter in sufficient quantity to colour it of a pinky tint, a little cayenne, and lemon juice. When these ingredients are well mixed in the Allemande, add half-a-dozen small truffles cut in the shape of small olives. Aurora Sauce Put half a pint of Bdchamel sauce into a bain-marie, and, just before the sauce is required for use, mix in one ounce of lobster butter, a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a little cayenne. Hollandaise or Dutch Sauce Put the yolks of three eggs, a little glaze, two ounces of fresh butter, a gill of white sauce, some nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt into a small stewpan; stir these quickly with a wooden spoon over a slow fire, or else immerse the bottom of the stew-pan into a deep saute-pan half full of boiling water, which must be kept over a slow fire while the sauce is worked. As soon as the sauce assumes a smooth, compact body take it away from the fire, work it smartly, and then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. If the sauce should appear to curdle or decompose, add a dessertspoonful of any white sauce nearest at hand, which will set it right again. Dutch sauce may be flavoured with various sorts of vinegar, horse-radish, or lemon juice, according to fancy, or as the case may require. Maitre d’ Hotel Sauce Put half a pint of Bechamel sauce into a stew-pan, make it boil, and incorporate with it three ounces of fresh butter, one teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, pepper, salt, and squeeze of lemon juice. Cold Maitre d’Hotel Sauce Put about three ounces of fresh butter on a plate; knead it together with one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, pepper, salt, and squeeze of lemon juice. This butter is chiefly used for French beefsteaks, for broiled mackerel, and other sorts of broiled fish, as will be shown hereafter. Princess Sauce Put into a small stew-pan the rind of one lemon, and one teaspoonful of horse-radish, both grated; a little nutmeg, pepper, and two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar; simmer these on a slow fire for a fewTHE MODERN COOK I 2 minutes, and then add a gill of Allemande sauce; stir the whole on the fire till it boils, then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce add a pat of fresh butter and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. This sauce will prove an excellent accessory, to be served with any entree of poultry or game when dressed k la Dauphine or k la Villeroi; as also for fillets of dressed fish, bread-crumbed, and denominated a la Princess, in which case a little anchovy butter may be added. Albert Sauce Grate two ounces of horse-radish; put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of good broth; let this simmer gently on a moderate fire for half an hour, then add half a gill of white sauce and a quarter of a pint of cream ; reduce the whole over a brisk fire, and pass the sauce through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a bain-marie- just before using the sauce make it hot, and mix in a dessertspoon- ful of French vinegar, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some salt, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and two yolks of eggs. This sauce is well adapted to be eaten with braised fillet of beef, garnished with potatoes cut into the shape of olives, and fried in butter. Mousseline Sauce Heat up in a small sauce-pan a gill of white sauce (Bechamel), then stir in with a whisk the yolks of two eggs; stand the sauce-pan in boiling water over the fire, and whisk the sauce until nearly boiling. Next add by degrees one ounce of fresh butter—this must be whisked in in small quantities; and, lastly, add a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and whisk until the sauce has acquired the consistency of a light cream. Just before serving incorporate one or two table- spoonfuls of whipped cream. This sauce is excellent with boiled fish, asparagus, artichokes, cauliflower, etc. Indian Curry Sauce Take one onion, one small carrot, and one head of celery, and slice them very thin ; place these, with two ounces of fresh butter, in a stew-pan,’and fry them over a slow fire till the onion is nearly melted, but without becoming brown; add three blades of mace, some thyme and a bay-leaf, a bouquet of parsley, half a tablespoonful of curry paste, a tablespoonful of curry powder, and as much roux or flour as may be required to thicken the quantity of sauce needed ; moisten with one pint of good broth or consommd, and stir the sauce on the fire till it boils ; then set it by the side to clear itself of the butter, etc. Having skimmed and reduced the sauce to a proper consistency, pass it through a tammy (extracting the parsley), as for a purtie, and put it into a bain-marie, or add it to whatever kind of meat is prepared for the curry, taking care that the broth should be used for making the sauce.SAUCES IN GENERAL Cardinal Sauce Put half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce into a stew-pan, add half a gill of essence of mushrooms, one ounce of lobster butter, a little essence of anchovies, lemon juice, and cayenne ; work these well together, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Observe : that for whatever kind of meat or fish this sauce may be intended, the essence or liquor of the meat or fish should be first reduced to glaze, and then incorporated into the sauce, in order to give it a characteristic flavour. Regency Sauce Cut an eel of a pound weight into thin slices, and place them in a stew-pan with six cloves, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, a bay- leaf, sweet basil, a carrot, three or four mushrooms, an onion, and a little salt; moisten with three-quarters of a pint of good claret, and put the whole to boil gently on the fire for half an hour, after which pass the essence thus obtained through the tammy with pressure, so as to extract every particle. Then mix the produce with a gill of reduced Espagnole sauce, and having boiled, skimmed, and reduced it, finish by working into it a dessertspoonful of essence of truffles, one ounce of anchovy butter, nutmeg, lemon juice, and a small pinch of sugar. This sauce is peculiarly well adapted for every sort of coloured fish, either fresh-water or salt. White Oyster Sauce Put twelve oysters into a stew-pan and set them to boil for five minutes on the fire; drain them on a sieve (saving their liquor in a basin), wash and beard them, taking care to cut off the tendons, as that part when eaten is troublesome to the teeth, and put them into a bain-marie—reserving only the fat part; then put one ounce of butter (more or less according to the quantity of sauce) into a stew- pan with one ounce of flour, cayenne pepper, and salt; knead these well together, and moisten with a pint of oyster liquor, a tablespoonful of cream, and a teaspoonful of glaze ; stir the sauce on the fire, keeping it boiling for ten minutes; then pass it through a tammy upon the oysters. Just before sending to table add a little lemon juice. Brown Oyster Sauce Prepare this precisely as the last sauce, but, instead of the cream, use an equal quantity of brown gravy. Brown oyster sauce is a very desirable accessory to beefsteaks, beef pudding, beefsteak pie, broiled slices of cod-fish, and various other plain dressed dishes. Mussel Sauce Wash, beard, and blanch or parboil a pint of mussels; take all the white fat mussels out of the shells and place them in a bain-marie, reserving their liquor in a basin. Then knead two ounces of butter, with ounce of flour, some nutmeg, pepper, and salt; add a pint ofTHE MODERN COOK 14 liquor from the mussels, a teaspoonful of glaze, and half a gill of cream; stir the whole on the stove-fire till it boils, and keep it boiling for ten minutes ; then add a liaison of two yolks of eggs, and pass it through a tammy on to the mussels. Just before sending the sauce to table throw in a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley and a little lemon juice. This sauce is well adapted for broiled whitings, turbot, cod, haddock, and gurnet. Shrimp Sauce To about half a pint of melted butter add half an ounce of lobster coral, cayenne, a quarter of a pint of picked shrimps, one teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and lemon juice. Crayfish Sauce Boil one dozen of crayfish in the usual manner, trim the tails, and with the bodies and shells make one ounce of crayfish butter (see p. 43), which incorporate into about half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce; add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice, and pass this sauce through a tammy on to the crayfish tails. Lobster Sauce Cut the fleshy part of a lobster into small square pieces; reserve the spawn and coral, and pound it with one ounce of butter and pass it through a sieve. Then put about half a pint of melted butter, or the same quantity of reduced Veloute sauce, into a stew-pan, incorporate therewith the lobster butter, a teaspoonful of glaze, cayenne, andjemon juice; add the pieces of lobster, and send to table. Sturgeon Sauce Take one pint of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been braised, and, having reduced it to one-third of its quantity, add a glass of claret or port, a gill of worked Espagnole sauce, and some essence or trimmings of mushrooms; allow the sauce to clear itself by boiling gently on the side of the fire, skim it, reduce it, and then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Just before using the sauce mix in a pat of butter, some nutmeg, cayenne, one teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and lemon juice. Bordelaise Sauce Mince two ounces of lean ham, and put it into a stew-pan with two cloves of garlic, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme and a bay-leaf, some sprigs of tarragon, and a gill of claret; set these to simmer gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, then add a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, a gill of worked Espagnole sauce, and half a pint of veal stock; having allowed the sauce to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire to clear itself, pass it with pressure through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. This sauce must be kept rather thin, and, to be perfect, should be bright and wholly free from grease ; it is especially adapted, by its flavour and character, for being served with broiled meats and fishes generally.15 SAUCES IN GENERAL When this sauce is served with broiled fish add to it, just before sending to table, a little essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice. Claremont Sauce Cut one large onion into halves, pare off the ends, cut into thin slices, and fry in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter of a fine yellow colour; drain off the butter, add a pinch of mignonette pepper, with half a pint of brown sauce and one gill of consomme. Set this to boil gently by the side of the fire, skim it, and then, when sufficiently reduced, pour it into a bain-marie for use. This sauce, as well as sauce a la Bretonne, is well calculated for making an excellent hash, either with beef, veal, or mutton. Portuguese Sauce Grate the rind of a lemon and put it into a small stew-pan with a few bruised peppercorns, some mace, six cloves, thyme, and a bay- leaf, with a glass of sherry. Simmer the whole on a slow fire for ten minutes, then add a gill of worked brown sauce and a gill of con- somme ; set this to boil gently by the side of the fire, skim it, reduce it, and pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. This sauce is used for a braised fillet of beef, or minced fillet of beef au gratin a la Portuguaise. Sicilian Sauce Chop two truffles, two shalots, half-a-dozen mushrooms, and some parsley separately; put them into a small stew-pan with a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, one clove of garlic, and a little cayenne; moisten with a glass of sherry; set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for ten minutes ; add half a pint of Allemande sauce, reduce it to its proper consistency, and then put it into a bain-marie for use. Just before using this sauce add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, the rind of half an orange,—pared extremely thin, cut into fine shreds, and blanched,—a squeeze of lemon juice, and a pinch of pounded sugar. German Sweet Sauce Stew two ounces of dried cherries in one glass of red wine, together with some bruised cinnamon, cloves, and lemon peel, for ten minutes on a slow fire; pass the whole through a tammy into a puree, and put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of reduced brown sauce and two ounces of stewed prunes. This sauce is in great request for German dishes; it improves the flavour of braised venison in its varied forms of preparation, and is preferred by many for that purpose to Poivrade or Piquante sauce. Cherry Sauce Put a small pot of black-currant jelly into a stew-pan, together with three ounces of dried cherries, a small stick of cinnamon, and half-a-dozen cloves tied up in a piece of muslin; moisten with ai6 THE MODERN COOK quarter of a pint of red wine, and set the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for five minutes; then take out the cinnamon and cloves and send to table. This kind of sauce is well adapted for roast hare or venison. Neapolitan Sauce Scrape one ounce of horse-radish quite clean, grate it, and place this in a small stew-pan with one ounce of glaze, a small pot of currant jelly, a gill of red wine, and a gill of worked brown sauce ; boil the whole gently on the fire for twenty minutes, then pass the sauce through a tammy as you would a puree, and put it into a bain- marie for use. This kind of sauce is generally used with larded fillets of beef. It may also be served with entrees of venison. Victoria Cherry Sauce Put a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly into a stew-pan, together with a dozen cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind of one orange, a piece of glaze, and a gill of reduced brown sauce; moisten with a gill of Burgundy wine, boil gently on the fire for ten minutes, pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie, add the juice of the orange, and, just before sending to table, reheat the sauce. This sauce is especially appropriate with red deer or roebuck, when prepared in a marinade and larded. Red=Currant Jelly Sauce for Venison Bruise half a stick of cinnamon and six cloves, and put them into a small stew-pan with one ounce of sugar, and the peel of one lemon pared off very thin and perfectly free from any portion of white pulp ; moisten with a quarter of a pint of port wine, and set the whole to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes; then strain it through a sieve into a small stew-pan containing a small pot of red-currant jelly. Just before sending the sauce to table set it on the fire to boil, in order to melt the currant jelly, so that it may mix with the essence of spice, etc. Black-Currant Jelly Sauce for Venison This sauce is made exactly in the same manner as the foregoing —substituting black-currant jelly for red. It is preferred by many to the other, as it possesses more flavour. Sauce Robert Peel one onion and cut it in halves, pare off the ends, and cut into very small dice in the following manner:—Hold the half-onion in the left hand, set it firmly on the table with the cut side down- wards, then, with a knife held in the right hand horizontally, apply the edge of the point, and cut the onion into slices parallel with the surface of the table without drawing the knife quite through; then turn the piece of onion half round, and cut it nearly through in a vertical direction ; this will form the whole into small dice-like pieces.i7 SAUCES IN GENERAL Next put into a small stew-pan with about an ounce of fresh butter, and fry to a light-yellow colour; then drain the butter and add two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar; set this on the fire to simmer, and when the vinegar is nearly reduced add a gill of Espagnole sauce, and half that quantity of consomme; stir this on the fire till it boils, then set it on the side to continue gently boiling that it may clear itself. Skim it thoroughly, and, having reduced it to a proper consistency, pour it into a bain-marie, and finish it by mixing in two teaspoonfuls of French mustard and a pinch of mignonette pepper. This sauce is peculiarly adapted, from its piquante, full, yet delicate flavour, for entrees of broiled pork. Sauce a la Gasconne Take a dessertspoonful of French capers, with about an ounce of truffles, and chop each separately, very fine. Put these into a small stew-pan, together with one clove of garlic, a tablespoonful of salad oil, some pepper, and nutmeg. Fry them lightly on the fire for two or three minutes ; moisten with a glass of French white wine ; set the whole to boil on the fire for three minutes, then add a gill of white Veloute sauce, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme. Stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, then set it by the side to continue boiling gently. Skim it well, and after having added another glass of wine, reduce the sauce and thicken it with a liaison of two yolks. Pour the sauce into a bain-marie, and just before using it mix in a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched chives, parsley, and tarragon, a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon juice. Chevreuil Sauce (Piquante Sauce for Roebuck) Chop one ounce of lean ham and put it into a stew-pan with a good pinch of mignonette pepper, a sprig of thyme, and a bay-leaf, one green onion, and some sprigs of parsley. Moisten with a gill of French vinegar, boil the whole on the fire till reduced to half its original quantity, and then add a gill of brown sauce, a glass of red wine, and a gill of consomme. Stir this on the fire till it boils, and after having cleared and skimmed it in the usual manner, reduce it to a proper consistency, and finish by adding a dessertspoonful of red-currant jelly and the juice of half an orange. Butter Sauce Butter sauce, or, as it is more often absurdly called, melted butter, is the foundation of the whole of the following sauces, and requires very great care in its preparation. Though simple, it is nevertheless a very useful and agreeable sauce when properly made; so far from this being usually the case, it is generally left to assistants to prepare as an insignificant matter—the result is, therefore, seldom satisfactory. When a large quantity of butter sauce is required, put two ounces of fresh butter into a middle-sized stew-pan, with some grated nutmeg and mignonette pepper; to these add two ounces of sifted flour. Knead the whole well together, and moisten with a pint of cold Ci8 THE MODERN COOK spring water. Stir the sauce on the fire till it boils, and after having kept it gently boiling for twenty minutes (observing that it be not thicker than the consistence of common white sauce), proceed to mix in one quarter of a pound of sweet fresh butter, taking care to stir the sauce quickly the whole time of the operation. Should it appear to turn oily, add now and then a teaspoon ful of cold spring water. Finish with the juice of half a lemon, and salt to taste. Then pass the sauce through a tammy into a large bain-marie for use. Note.—This kind of sauce should not be made above twenty minutes before it is wanted, as, from its particular delicacy, when exposed much longer to heat of any kind, it is liable to be decom- posed. Should this occur, it may be remedied by simply adding a teaspoonful of cold spring water in winter, or a small piece of clean ice in summer, and then working the sauce briskly together with a spoon. This method is efficacious in restoring any sort of butter sauce, when turned or become oily, to its original smoothness. Butter Sauce for Asparagus Prepare half a pint of sauce as directed in the foregoing recipe, and add a teaspoonful of double cream with a teaspoonful of French vinegar. This sauce is also served with cauliflower, broccoli, sea-kale, salsify, etc. Anchovy Sauce Prepare half a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17), add a good tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies to give flavour, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Plain Lobster Sauce Cut all the fleshy part of the lobster into small square dice, place them in a bain-marie with three-quarters of a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17), a little cayenne, and lemon juice, and also one ounce of lobster coral forced through a hair-sieve. Stir the sauce with a spoon on the fire till it boils, and send to table. The coral may also be pounded with a little butter, and after being rubbed through a sieve or tammy worked into the sauce. Either method may be adopted, but the latter is generally preferred. Plain Shrimp Sauce Take half a pint of picked shrimps, half a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17), a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, cayenne, and lemon juice. Stir these together in a small stew-pan over the fire, and serve. Fennel Sauce Chop and blanch one dessertspoonful of fennel to colour the sauce of a bright green, and put it into a bain-marie containing half a pint of butter sauce (see p. 17). Add a little pepper, salt, and lemon juice.SAUCES IN GENERAL *9 Gooseberry Sauce Let half a pint of green young gooseberries be well picked ; throw them into an untinned sugar-boiler, containing one and a half pints of boiling water to blanch them in. Boil them quickly on the fire for ten minutes (more or less), but see that the gooseberries are thoroughly done. Drain them on a sieve, remove them into a small stew-pan, and bruise them with a wooden spoon. The gooseberries after being boiled may be rubbed through a sieve or tammy into a puree, which has the effect of giving a smoother appearance to the sauce. This sauce is served with plain boiled mackerel. Parsley Sauce—Parsley and Butter Put a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley into half a pint of good butter sauce (see p. 17), and just before sending to table add a very little lemon juice. Plain Ravigote Sauce Take one dessertspoonful each of tarragon vinegar, Chili vinegar, and Harvey’s sauce. Put this into a small stew-pan, and set it to boil down to half the quantity ; then add about half a pint of good butter sauce (see p. 17) and a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched tarragon, with a teaspoonful of chervil, chives, burnet, and parsley, in sufficient quantity to give a bright colour to the sauce. Stir the whole well together, and serve. This sauce is suitable for boiled fowls or chickens, dressed fillets of various sorts of fish, when a plain dinner is served. If a small piece of glaze be added it will tend much to improve the quality of all plain sauces. Plain Dutch Sauce Pour a gill of melted butter (see p. 17) into a small stew-pan, add three raw yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, some mignonette pepper, two ounces of fresh butter, and a little salt. Stir the sauce briskly on the fire in order to set the yolks in it, and then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie. Previously to using it add a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar or lemon juice. Bread Sauce Put a tablespoonful of cream and half a pint of milk into a small stew-pan with two ounces of bread-crumbs, a small onion, some peppercorns, and a little salt. Stir the sauce on the fire until it has boiled ten minutes, then take out the onion and peppercorns, work in half an ounce of fresh butter, and serve. Fried Bread Sauce Mince one ounce of lean ham and put it into a small stew-pan with one chopped shalot, some grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and half a pint of good gravy. Simmer the whole on the fire till reduced to half, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into another small stew-pan containing two tablespoonfuls of fried bread-THE MODERN COOK 20 crumbs of a light-brown colour, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and a little essence of chicken and the juice of half a lemon. Stir the sauce till it boils, and serve. This kind of sauce is appropriate for all small birds, such as wheat-ears, ortolans, ruffs, and reeves, etc. Brown Gravy for Roast Veal Place two ounces of fresh butter in a stew-pan, and knead it with a good tablespoonful of flour. Add half a pint of good brown gravy, half a gill of essence of mushrooms or mushroom catsup, a little grated nutmeg, and mignonette pepper. Stir the sauce on the stove, and keep it gently boiling for ten minutes. If it becomes too thick add a little more gravy, so as to keep it of the same consistency as any other sauce. Finish with a little lemon juice. If there is no gravy or essence of mushrooms at hand, use in their stead half a pint of water, a tablespoonful of glaze, half a gill of mushroom catsup, and a little Indian soy; these will answer nearly the same purpose. Cream Sauce for Roast Neck of Veal Knead two ounces of fresh butter with one ounce of sifted flour. Add a gill of good cream and a gill of white consomme, a little nutmeg and mignonette pepper, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, and a bunch of herbs. Stir the sauce till it boils, and keep it gently boiling for ten minutes; then extract the onion and herbs, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie for use. Egg' Sauce Boil two eggs hard ; when cold, break and pick off their shells, and then cut them up into square dice-like pieces and put them into one pint of good melted butter (see p. 17), with a little pepper and salt. Stir gently on the fire till the sauce is hot, and then serve. Egg Sauce (another method) Boil two eggs hard, take the yolks out, and cut the whites into small shreds and put them into a stew-pan. Place a wire sieve over a clean plate, and rub the yolks through it on to the plate, keeping the vermicelli-like substance which this operation will produce as whole as possible. Pour one pint of good butter sauce on to the shred whites of eggs, adding to it a teaspoonful of English mustard, a little pepper and salt, and lemon juice. Just before serving, warm the sauce, and mix in lightly the vermicellied yolks of eggs, and serve. Sauce Moutarde, or Mustard Sauce Into about half a pint of good butter sauce mix one teaspoonful of prepared English mustard and one of French mustard ; make the sauce hot, and serve. This sauce is seldom used for any other dish than broiled herrings.21 SAUCES IN GENERAL Plain Curry Sauce Put one and a half ounces of fresh butter into a stew-pan, together with an ounce of flour and a good tablespoonful of curry paste or powder. Knead these well together, then add a little shred carrot, celery, and onions; moisten with about a pint of good strong con- somme. Stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and after having kept it boiling for about twenty minutes pass it through the tammy, as for a puree; then remove the sauce into a bain-marie or stew-pan, to be used when required. This economical method of making curry sauce should only be resorted to in cases of emergency or necessity, otherwise it is desirable to follow the directions contained on p. 12. Waterfisch Sauce, for Boiled Fresh = Water Fish Cut into small shreds the rind of an orange, the red part of a carrot, a dessertspoonful of parsley stalks, and an equal proportion of parsley heads. Blanch these, and having drained them on a sieve or napkin, place them in a small stew-pan containing about half a pint of Dutch sauce, with the addition of two dessertspoonfuls of reduced essence of fish, a little cayenne, and lemon juice. Stir the sauce on the fire without allowing it to boil, and serve it with perch, or, indeed, with any other sort of plain boiled fresh-water fish, for which purpose the ingredients it contains render it peculiarly fitted. Flemish Sauce Knead one ounce of fresh butter with an equal quantity of flour, to which add an onion, some sprigs of parsley, a little shred carrot, and a sprig of thyme, a blade of mace, and a little mignonette pepper; moisten with a gill of cream and half a pint of good consomme. Stir the sauce on the fire until it boils, and after having kept it boiling for twenty minutes, pass it through the tammy into a bain- marie containing a teaspoonful of the red part of a carrot, some parsley stalks and roots, and some horse-radish, the whole of which should be previously cut into small diamonds and blanched. Finish by mixing in a small teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar and a green Indian gherkin cut into shreds; make the sauce hot, and serve. Caper Sauce, for Fish Knead one ounce of fresh butter with half an ounce of flour, a very little grated nutmeg, and mignonette pepper; to these add a tablespoonful of capers, a piece of glaze, and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies; moisten with about half a pint of good consomme. Stir the sauce on the fire until it begins to simmer, then take it off; add a squeeze of lemon juice, and serve. This kind of sauce is peculiarly adapted for broiled salmon. Caper Sauce, for Boiled Mutton To about half a pint of good butter sauce add a tablespoonful of capers with a little pepper and salt.THE MODERN COOK 22 Cream Sauce, or Bechamel, for Salt=Fish Place two ounces of sifted flour in a stew-pan with an equal quantity of fresh butter; knead them together well with a wooden spoon ; add a small onion, a small carrot, a small head of celery,—the whole cut up thin,—some parsley, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay- leaf, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns; moisten with about a pint of good white consomme and a tablespoonful of cream, adding a little salt; stir the sauce on the fire until it boils. Let it continue to boil for ten minutes, stirring it the whole time ; then pass it through a tammy into a bain-marie, to be kept for use. Beurre Noir, or Black Butter Sauce Place about three ounces of good fresh butter in a small stew-pan, put it on the fire to melt, and then allow it to fry so as to acquire a light brown colour; then take it off the stove, skim it, and quickly pass it through a sieve into a stew-pan containing a tablespoonful of French vinegar, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, ditto Harvey’s sauce, ditto mushroom catsup, and a piece of glaze the size of a small walnut, and sufficient pepper and salt to season the sauce. Boil the whole well together, and use it for boiled skate or broiled mackerel. With whatever kind of fish this sauce is served, fried parsley forms an indispensable adjunct. Orleans Sauce Take the red part of a boiled carrot, the fillets of two washed anchovies, the whole of one egg boiled hard, and three green gherkins; cut these into small, square, dice-like shapes, and place them in a small bain-marie. Add half a pint of Poivrade sauce (see p. 8), boil together gently for five minutes, and use this sauce for braised meats. Devil’s Sauce Chop three shalots fine, and place them in a small stew-pan with one tablespoonful of French vinegar and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Boil these together for three minutes; then add half a pint of thin, strong Espagnole sauce, and a dessertspoonful of Tomato sauce; boil again, and finish by stirring in half an ounce of anchovy butter (see p. 18). This sauce is most appropriate for broiled meats. COLD SAUCES Cambridge Sauce Take the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, the fillets of four anchovies, cleaned, and put them into a mortar with a tablespoonful of French capers, a tablespoonful of tarragon, chervil, chives, and a little burnet, blanched; pound these well together with a teaspoonful of English mustard, the same quantity of French, and some pepper23 SAUCES IN GENERAL and salt; moisten with a tablespoonful of good salad oil, and a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, taking care that the sauce be kept rather thick. Having sufficiently moistened the sauce, take it out of the mortar into the tammy placed over a dish for that purpose, and proceed to rub the sauce through the tammy in the same manner as a puree; pass the back part of a knife along the under-part of the tammy, in order to detach any adhesive particles; take the sauce up into a small basin, to be kept on the ice till wanted for use, and just before sending to table add some chopped parsley. Be sure that this sauce is kept about the same degree of thickness as reduced Veloute sauce; salt must be used in moderation, owing to the presence of anchovies in the composition. Remoulade Sauce Blanch one teaspoonful of tarragon, chervil, chives, burnet, and parsley; extract the water and pound these herbs together, with one yolk of hard egg. Moisten with a gill of salad oil and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and season with pepper and salt. Pass the sauce through the tammy as for a puffie, and then take it up into a small basin; keep it on the ice till it is required for use. Tartare Sauce Place a round-bottomed basin in a deep saute-pan containing some pounded ice; put two raw yolks of eggs into the basin with a little pepper and salt, and with the back part of a wooden spoon proceed to work the yolks of eggs, dropping in at intervals very small quantities of half a pint of salad oil, and two tablespoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, until a sufficient quantity of sauce is produced, bearing in mind that the relative quantity of oil to be used in pro- portion to the vinegar is as four to one. When the sauce is finished, add one teaspoonful of chopped tarragon and chervil and half a shalot. In making this sauce, should it decompose through inattention, it may instantly be restored to its proper consistency by mixing in it a good tablespoonful of cold white sauce. Mayonnaise Sauce Place two raw yolks of eggs in a round-bottomed basin, and set this in a deep saute-pan containing some pounded ice; add a little pepper and salt to the yolks, and proceed to work them quickly with the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon, moistening at intervals with a pint of salad oil and half a gill of French vinegar, which must, however, be sparingly used at first, and gradually increased as you proceed, until by this means the quantity of sauce desired is produced; add a little lemon juice to make the sauce white. Previous to using the sauce, add a tablespoonful of aspic jelly (see p. 24), which must be just barely melted before incorporating it with the Mayonnaise, as in the case of its being made warm it might have the effect of turning and decomposing the sauce.THE MODERN COOK 24 Green Mayonnaise Sauce Blanch a dessertspoonful of tarragon, chervil, burnet, and parsley; extract the water therefrom; pass the Ravigote (see p. 19), thus produced through a sieve, and proceed to incorporate it with half a pint of Mayonnaise prepared according to the foregoing instructions. This sauce is usually coloured with spinach-green (see p. 74). Red or Coral Mayonnaise Sauce Pound one ounce of lobster coral, pass it through a sieve, and mix it in with half a pint of Mayonnaise sauce; add a little cayenne pepper and a teaspoonful of mustard. This sauce should be used exclusively for lobster and fish salads. Aspic Jelly Take two quarts of good veal stock, four ounces leaf gelatine, the rind and juice of two lemons, a gill of white wine, half a gill of tarragon vinegar, a bouquet garni, one small onion sliced, eighteen peppercorns, a blade of mace, half a stick of celery, a small carrot sliced, a little salt, and the whites and shells of three eggs. Remove every trace of fat from the stock. Put all the ingredients except the wine into a large stew-pan. Whisk over the fire until the contents come just up to boiling point. Remove the whisk, and let the jelly boil for two or three minutes. Then add the wine. Put the lid on the stew-pan, and leave to simmer for ten to fifteen minutes by the side of the fire, so that the solid ingredients may settle. Next, pour it into a jelly-bag, prepared in the usual way by pouring through some boiling water, and keep pouring the jelly through the bag for a few minutes, when it will become perfectly bright; then allow it to run into the basin until the whole has passed. Pour the aspic into a basin and set aside to become firm. Care should be taken throughout the process to avoid adding any ingredient to the aspic that would be likely to prevent it from becoming a pale straw colour 3 half may be coloured a darker shade, if desired, by adding a few drops of caramel or browning.1 Mayonnaise Aspic Set a round-bottomed basin in some crushed ice; place in it half a pint of light-coloured aspic jelly, a little pepper and salt, a gill of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar. Whip this mixture quickly with a whisk, adding from time to time some oil and vinegar in the same proportions as previously directed; by whipping briskly you will find the sauce assume a white smooth appearance; add a little lemon juice to whiten it, and some chopped tarragon and chervil, or, if preferred, this sauce may be used without the latter. This 1 Caramel.—This is made by heating some sugar in a small copper pan and allowing it to boil down gradually, over a slow fire, until it becomes a very dark brown in colour ; some cold water must then be added to melt the caramel, and after it has boiled up it should be kept in a small bottle for use.SAUCES IN GENERAL 25 kind of Mayonnaise sauce is considered as being the most delicate, and is particularly adapted for aspics of fillets of fowls, or any sort of white fish. This sauce also may be coloured by using for that purpose either some pounded lobster coral or extract of spinach (see p. 74). Proven$ale Sauce Pound one yolk of hard-boiled egg, together with four anchovies, a dessertspoonful of capers, tarragon, chervil, burnet, parsley, a clove of garlic, pepper and salt, a gill of salad oil, and a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar; rub the whole through a tammy with a wooden spoon as for a puree; add a little lemon juice, and serve. This kind of sauce is well adapted to be served with broiled eels or fowls, and more especially with fish salads, in which case about a teaspoonful of chopped parsley should be added. Cold Poivrade Sauce Put a gill of brown sauce into a round-bottomed basin, add thereto two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of Chili vinegar, a dessert- spoonful of tarragon vinegar, pepper and salt; work the whole well together with a whisk, then add a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and a little shalot. This sauce is good with plain boiled artichokes, and also for brawn, by adding a little sugar for the brawn. ■ Boar’s Head Sauce Grate one ounce of horse-radish, and place it in a basin with two ounces of red-currant jelly, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, the grated rind of an orange and lemon, together with the juice of both ; one ounce of pounded sugar, a tablespoonful of French vinegar, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil; mix these ingredients thoroughly together, and serve. Another Method for making Boar’s Head Sauce Pare the rind off two Seville oranges, free from any of the white pith; cut it into fine shreds, parboil this, and drain it on a sieve; then put it into a small stew-pan containing the juice of the two oranges, together with a small pot of red-currant jelly, half a pint of port wine, and half a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder. Simmer the whole together in a stew-pan, and serve when cold. Brawn Sauce Mix together one tablespoonful of moist sugar, two of French vinegar, three of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, and serve.26 THE MODERN COOK VEGETABLE PURGES FOR GARNISHING ENTREES, REMOVES, Etc. Puree of Peas Boil half a pint of marrow-fat or Prussian-blue peas in enough water to cover, with a sprig of mint, an onion, and a sprig of parsley; strain off the water, and pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar; then put into a stew-pan, and after adding a pinch of sugar and half a gill of good white sauce, make it hot, and pass it through a tammy as usual. Put the puree into a small stew-pan, in which it must be warmed before using it; mix in a small piece of glaze and half an ounce of fresh butter. Puree of Windsor Beans Procure half a pint of young Windsor beans, and boil them in enough water to cover with a sprig of parsley, an onion, and a sprig of winter savory; drain them and pound the whole together in a mortar; put into a stew-pan, add half a gill of good white sauce, and make the puree warm. Rub it through the tammy with a wooden spoon ; then put into a stew-pan, and just before using it make it sufficiently hot; mix in a small piece of glaze, half an ounce of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a few drops of spinach-green (see P- 74)- Puree of Young Carrots Prepare a small bunch of young carrots, slice them up thin, wash and drain them in a sieve; then place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, grated nutmeg, and sugar; stew them on a slow fire, turning them over now and then. When the carrots begin to get coloured, moisten with half a pint of good broth and set them on the fire. Allow them to boil down gently to a glaze, then pound them in the mortar and rub them through the tammy into a puree; put this puree into a small stew-pan, and when required for use add a dessertspoonful of thick Allemande sauce, half an ounce of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar. Puree of Turnips a la Creme Peel and wash three or four good turnips; cut them into small square pieces, or slices; first blanch, and then drain them on a napkin, and afterwards place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little sugar, and salt; let them stew gently on a slow fire to extract the moisture, turning them occasionally, and taking care that they do not become at all coloured. When the turnips are nearly melted, add a gill of Veloute or Bechamel sauce; stir the puree with a wooden spoon on the fire in order to reduce it to the consistency of a soft paste, then add a tablespoonful of double27 VEGETABLE PUREES cream. Reduce the puree still further, then rub it through a tammy ; next remove it into a small stew-pan, and previously to using it make it sufficiently hot, mixing in half an ounce of fresh butter, and serve. Puree of Celery Cut the white part of two or three heads of celery into half-inch lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, plunge them in fresh water, and drain the celery in a napkin ; then place them in a stew- pan with one ounce of butter, a gill of white broth, a little sugar and grated nutmeg. Cover the celery thus prepared with a round of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan and set it on a slow fire to extract the moisture and melt the celery, taking care that in the course of process it does not colour. When the celery is melted or softened, moisten with half a pint of white sauce and a table- spoonful of cream; reduce quickly on the fire, stirring the puree the whole time with a wooden spoon. As soon as the puree is reduced to its proper consistency, proceed immediately to rub it through the tammy, after which put it into a small stew-pan ; previously to using it, make the puree hot, and mix with it a dessertspoonful of double cream and a pinch of pounded sugar. Puree of Cauliflowers Cut the head of a white fresh cauliflower into small pieces, and after trimming these, boil them in some boiling water with a little salt, mignonette pepper, and one ounce of butter; when done, drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a saute-pan with a gill of reduced Allemande or white sauce. Stir the puree on the fire with a wooden spoon, and keep it boiling until reduced to the con- sistency of a soft paste; then instantly rub it through a tammy, remove the puree into a small stew-pan, and previously to using it make it hot, and mix in a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of double cream to whiten it and make it more delicate. Puree of Spinach Pick, wash, and boil enough leaves to make a small dish of spinach; rinse them in cold water, squeeze thoroughly free from water, examine carefully by separating with the point of a knife on the chopping board, so as to remove any straws, etc.; next pound it well in the mortar, and then put in a deep saute-pan; add a gill of good white sauce, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a pinch of sugar; reduce the puree over a brisk fire to preserve its colour; rub it through a tammy, and remove it into a small stew-pan. Just before using it, make it warm, and add one ounce of fresh butter and a small piece of glaze. Puree of Sorrel Pick and well wash two or three handfuls of sorrel in several waters ; drain off the water, and place the sorrel in a large stew-pan on the fire, with enough water to cover, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. As soon as the sorrel is melted, and has boiled a28 THE MODERN COOK few minutes, turn it out on to a large hair-sieve, there to remain until the water has run off. Next cut one large onion into thin slices, place in a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, and put them to fry to a light colour on the fire, after which add a good teaspoonful of flour, some grated nutmeg, a teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and salt; moisten with a gill of sauce, either white or brown, then add the sorrel, prepared as above directed, and reduce the puree over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. When the sorrel is sufficiently reduced, rub it instantly through a tammy and place it in a small stew-pan. Previously to using the puree, make it hot; add half an ounce of butter and a little piece of glaze. Puree of Endive Trim off all the outside leaves of three or four full white-heart endives; wash them thoroughly, and carefully remove all insects, etc. Throw the endives into a stew-pan of boiling water, and after allowing them to remain boiling for the space of twenty minutes, immerse them in cold water. When thus cool, squeeze each endive separately, entirely extracting the water; then cut off the root end from each endive, and after first chopping the leafy portion place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little nutmeg, sugar, and salt. Stir the whole over the fire with a wooden spoon for five minutes, moisten with half a pint of white stock, then cover with a round of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan, and set it on a slow fire to continue very gently simmering for half an hour. Next add a gill of white sauce and a tablespoonful of cream, and reduce the puree quickly on a brisk fire. As soon as it is reduced to its proper consistency, instantly remove it into a small stew-pan for use. This kind of purde is usually rubbed through a coarse hair-sieve in preference to a tammy. Puree of Chestnuts Slit the husks of one pound of chestnuts and place them in a stew-pan with enough water to cover. Put the lid on the stew-pan and set it on a slow fire, taking care now and then to toss up the chestnuts so that they may get an equal degree of heat. In about twenty minutes the husks will easily peel off, and should then be removed. Put the chestnuts into a clean stew-pan with .half a pint of good consomme, and cover the pan. Set them to simmer gently on the corner of the stove. When they are done, pound them in a mortar, put them into a sautd-pan, add a little sugar, nutmeg, and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Reduce the pur£e, and rub it through a tammy on to a dish. Remove it into a small stew-pan, and just before using it, make it hot, mix in half an ounce of butter and a small piece of glaze. Puree of Potatoes Peel and wash three or four potatoes, cut them into slices, and place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, some mignonette pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg; moisten with half a pint of white29 VEGETABLE PUREES stock, put the lid on the stew-pan, and set it to boil on the fire. By the time the broth is reduced the potatoes will be done; then add a tablespoonful of cream, and with a wooden spoon reduce the puree on the fire to the usual consistency of mashed potatoes. Rub the puree through the tammy on to a dish, and then remove it into a small stew-pan. Previously to using it, add a small piece of butter. Puree of Artichokes First, pick off the outer leaves of three or four young full-grown globe artichokes, then pare off with a knife the whole of the outer green part of the bottom of the artichokes, so as to leave it white. When this is finished, rub each artichoke thus pared with a piece of lemon, and put them directly into a pan of water with a teaspoonful of vinegar in it. Next, place the artichokes in a stew-pan with boiling water, a little butter, lemon juice, salt, and mignonette pepper. After three-quarters of an hour’s gentle boiling, take the artichokes up, extract the fibrous interior from each, and place them in a saute-pan with half a pint of white sauce, a tablespoonful of cream, nutmeg, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Reduce the pur£e quickly over a brisk fire, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon, and then rub it through a tammy; after which remove it into a small stew-pan. Finish with one ounce of butter and a small piece of glaze. Puree of Asparagus Break off the tender portion of a small bundle of green asparagus wash them in a large pan with two or three onions and some sprigs of picked parsley. Set these on the fire to boil in an untinned pan half full of boiling water, and throw in a teaspoonful of salt. As soon as the asparagus are done, drain them in a sieve, and remove all the water. Put the asparagus, parsley, and onions altogether into a deep saute-pan, with a gill of white sauce, the crumb of a small French roll (that has previously been soaked in water, and afterwards pressed in a napkin to remove the moisture), some grated nutmeg, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of sugar. Reduce the puree quickly on the fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and from thence remove it into a small stew-pan and keep it in the cool until wanted for use. Finish by adding one ounce of fresh butter, a piece of glaze, and a few drops of spinach-green, if required, to give it a bright-green colour. Puree of Onions a la Soubise Peel and cut into slices two or three large onions, parboil them in water for five minutes, drain them on a sieve, immerse them in cold water, and press them in a napkin to extract the water. Place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, a little salt, and a good gill of white stock. Put a round of buttered paper on them, and cover the stew-pan with its lid and set it on a very slow fire to simmer gently for half an hour. Then turn the onions out into a saute-pan, moisten with one gill of good white sauce and a tablespoonful of cream. Reduce the pur£e quickly on aTHE MODERN COOK 3° sharp fire, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and put into a small stew-pan. Just before using it add a pinch of sugar. When this pur£e is required to be made very firm and thick it is necessary to increase the quantity of onions used for the purpose, and to add a couple of hot mealy potatoes. f Puree of Tomatoes Cut one ounce of raw ham into small pieces, and place in a stew- pan with two shalots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. Add a small piece of butter, and fry these ingredients on the fire to a light colour. To this add either three or four ripe tomatoes, or a gill of tinned ones, and half a gill of Veloute sauce. Reduce the puree thus prepared on a quick fire; then rub it through a tammy, a*nd place it in a small stew-pan for use. Finish by adding a teaspoonful of glaze and half an ounce of fresh butter just before sending to table. Puree of Truffles First peel and then pound three or four ounces of truffles. Put them into a stew-pan with a pat of butter, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, some grated nutmeg, and a very small clove of garlic. Set these on the stove to simmer for a few minutes, then add a gill of brown sauce and a teaspoonful of glaze. Reduce the puree quickly, and rub it through the tammy on to a dish; remove it from thence into a small bain-marie for use. Omit the garlic should its flavour be objectionable. Puree of Mushrooms Prepare half a pint of white button mushrooms, chop them up, adding meanwhile the juice of half a lemon to prevent them from turning black. When chopped fine, place them in a saute-pan with a pat of butter, and with a wooden spoon stir them on the fire for five minutes; moisten with half a pint of good white sauce, reduce the puree quickly, and then add one tablespoonful of double cream. Stir the puree on the fire for five minutes longer, rub it through a tammy on to a dish, and from thence remove it into a small stew-pan for use. Puree of Brussels Sprouts Wash and boil two or three handfuls of Brussels sprouts; place them in a saute-pan with half a pint of good white sauce, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, a little salt, and a pinch of sugar. Reduce the whole on a brisk fire, stirring all the time with a wooden spoon. Rub the puree through a tammy in the usual manner, and afterwards put it into a small stew-pan. Previously to using the pur£e, add a few drops of spinach-green, one ounce of butter, and, if liked, a tea- spoonful of liquefied meat-glaze. Puree of Cucumbers Mince one ounce of lean ham; place it in a small stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, and a few peppercorns. To these31 VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING add one good-sized cucumber, trimmed and cut up for the purpose. Set the stew-pan on a slow fire, there to simmer for ten minutes, at the expiration of which time add a gill of white sauce. Reduce the puree quickly on a brisk fire, and when it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, pour in two tablespoonfuls of good sweet double cream and a teaspoonful of sugar. Reduce the puree again on the fire, and then rub it through the tammy in the usual manner and take it up into a small stew-pan for use. Puree of French Beans Shred two or three handfuls of French beans, boil them quickly to a green colour, taking care to boil with them a few sprigs of picked parsley and one or two onions. When they are done, drain the whole on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a saute-pan with a gill of good white sauce, a piece of glaze, and a pinch of sugar. Reduce the puree on the fire, and then rub it through a tammy, put into a small stew-pan, and just before using it mix in a small ounce of butter and a few drops of spinach-green. Puree of Jerusalem Artichokes This puree is made exactly in the same manner as the puree of potatoes, merely substituting Jerusalem artichokes for potatoes. Puree of Seakale Wash and boil a small bundle of good white seakale, and drain it on a napkin; cut it into half-inch lengths, and place it in a stew-' pan with one ounce of fresh butter, some mignonette pepper, nutmeg, salt, a little sugar, and half a pint of white stock; cover with a round of buttered paper, and cover the stew-pan with its lid; set it on a moderate fire to simmer for twenty minutes, then add a gill of good white sauce. Reduce the puree quickly to the condition of a soft paste, and then add two tablespoonfuls of cream. After reducing it five minutes longer, rub the puree through the tammy, and put into a small stew-pan and keep hot until required for use. VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING Garnish of Truffles in Glaze1 Cut a dozen or more of truffles in various fancy shapes, such as small round balls, olives, quarters of orange, small pillars, and circular scallops. Place them in a small stew-pan with a little fresh butter, a pinch of salt, and a tablespoonful of glaze. Put on the lid of the stew-pan and set it on a slow fire to simmer for five or ten minutes. Toss the truffles thus prepared in their glaze, and use them to garnish the centre of an entree, or for any other appropriate purpose. 1 This is the foundation of all garnishes of truffles and mushrooms ; an infinite variety may be made by adding to the truffles, prepared as above, some special sauce, the addition of which will then give its name to the garnish.32 THE MODERN COOK Garnish of Truffles a la Parisienne Prepare the truffles as directed in the above recipe, and, having boiled them down in their glaze, add a good tablespoonful of Parisian sauce (see p. n). Garnish of Truffles with Supreme Sauce Prepare the truffles in fancy shapes, simmer them with a table- spoonful of butter and glaze, and boil them down in their glaze; then add a tablespoonful of Supreme sauce. This garnish may be served with all entrees, fillets of poultry or game. Garnish of Whole Truffles Wash and brush a dozen or more fine fresh truffles; boil them in one pint of wine mirepoix (for making which see p. 57)—half an hour’s gentle boiling will suffice. Just before using them, take the truffles out of the mirepoix, glaze them, and dispose them round or about the entree or remove in a circle or in groups. Garnish of Mushrooms in Allemande Sauce Wash and peel half a pound of mushrooms, put them into a small stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and about a gill of water. Boil them quickly on the fire for five minutes, drain the mushrooms, and put them into a bain-marie containing a good gill of Allemande sauce; reduce the liquor the mushrooms were boiled in and add it to the mushrooms. This garnish is proper for all white entrees, and especially for entrees of game or fowl & la Dauphine or a la Villeroi. Garnish of Mushrooms in Espagnole Sauce Prepare half a pound of mushrooms as directed in the foregoing recipe, drain them on a napkin, and place them in a stew-pan or bain-marie with a gill of finished Espagnole sauce, adding the essence of the mushrooms, cleared from the butter, and reduced. This sauce is appropriate for every kind of brown entree. Garnish of Young Carrots Wash and scrape a small bunch of young carrots, keeping them in their own shape as far as may be consistent with uniformity of size. Boil them in enough water to cover for three minutes, drain them on a sieve, place them in a stew-pan with half an ounce of sugar, half an ounce of butter, and a little salt; moisten with half a pint of stock or consomme, and set them to boil on the fire. When they are done, boil them down quickly to a glaze, roll the carrots in this glaze, and use them to garnish the intended dish. Garnish of Carrots in Olives, etc. Scrape and wash two or three good carrots; cut the red part, either with a small root-knife, vegetable scoop, or cutter, into various fancy shapes, as olives, small round balls, pillars, half-moons, diamonds, or fluted shapes. Parboil, drain, and prepare them as33 VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING directed above. Finish them in the same manner, and, having reduced them down in their own glaze, either use them as they are, or else add a good tablespoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or, indeed, any other kind of sauce that may be appropriate for the dish they are meant to garnish. Garnish of Turnips Peel two or three turnips, trim them into fancy shapes as directed in the preceding recipe, boil them for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, place them in a stew-pan with a little sugar, salt, and a small pat of butter. Moisten with a gill of white stock, put them on the fire, and when they are nearly done boil them down quickly in their glaze without allowing them to acquire much colour. These turnips may be used for a garnish, merely rolled in their own glaze, or a tablespoonful of either Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or finished Espagnole sauce may be added. Garnish of Carrots and Turnips k la Nivernaise Cut the red part of one large carrot into the shape of small olives or round balls. Place these in a small saute-pan with a little clarified butter and a teaspoonful of pounded sugar; fry them on the fire so as to give them a light colour, then place them on a sieve to drain off the butter, and put them into a small stew-pan with a small piece of fresh butter, a little sugar, and salt; moisten them with a small gill of consomme, and set them to boil gradually until nearly done, when they must boil rapidly to glaze. Having thus disposed of the carrot, prepare one large turnip, cut in a similar shape, and boil down to a glaze similarly to the carrots, and when both are done mix them together, and use them for entrees of braised mutton, beef, or any sort of cutlets. Garnish of Cucumber in Scallops Cut a good-sized cucumber into inch-lengths ; divide each piece, length-wise, into two or more pieces, according to the size of the cucumber, so that when trimmed they should be rather larger in size than a shilling; in trimming them, first scoop out the seedy part with a small root-knife, then peel off the green rind and pare away the angles slightly, so as to give them a somewhat rounded appearance. Next, place them in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of French vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt, and allow them to remain in this pickle, or marinade, for about a couple of hours, then drain them on a sieve, and place them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, a lump of sugar, and a good gill of white consonant; set them on a slow fire to simmer gently for twenty minutes, when they will be nearly done; boil them down quickly to a glaze, and keep them separately until they are wanted for immediate use; then set them on the fire to boil in order to absorb any moisture they may have thrown out, previously to adding a good tablespoonful of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or brown sauce, as the case may require. DTHE MODERN COOK 34 Garnish of Cucumber Farci Cut two good-sized cucumbers into two-inch lengths with a vegetable-cutter, scoop out the seeds and peel off the green rind, pare away the sharp angles at the ends, and then parboil them in water for three minutes, plunge them in cold water, and put them to drain on a napkin; then fill up the cavities with some quenelle force-meat of fowls. Next, cover the bottom of a saute-pan with some thin layers of fat bacon; place therein the cucumbers thus prepared, and in the centre put a small bunch of parsley and onion; cover the whole with layers of fat bacon, and moisten with a little white chicken consomme. Let them simmer very gently on a slow fire for about an hour, and just before the cucumbers are wanted for use drain them on a napkin and then put them into another saute-pan with their own liquor—freed from all grease, and afterwards reduced to a demi-glaze; just roll the cucumbers lightly in this glaze over a sharp fire, so as to cause the glaze to adhere to them, and thus give them a bright appearance. This kind of garnish of cucumbers is frequently used for whole entrees and removes, such as larded entrees of sweetbreads, stewed or braised meat dishes, fillet of beef, fowls, etc. Garnish of Celery a la Creme Trim and well wash two or three heads of full-sized white celery, cut them into half-inch lengths, boil these in water for five minutes, drain them on a sieve, and immerse them in cold water; then place them on a napkin. Next, put the celery in a stew-pan with a lump of sugar, a pat of butter, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; moisten with half a pint of white consomme, and set it to boil gently over the fire for about three-quarters of an hour; as soon as the celery is well done, boil it down in its glaze, and then add a tablespoonful of good, reduced Bechamel sauce. When this garnish is required as a sauce for fowls, etc., it will be necessary to increase the quantity of Bechamel sauce, and also to add a little cream. Garnish of Celery a l’Espagnole Prepare two or three heads of celery as directed in the fore- going recipe, and when it is thoroughly done add a tablespoonful of finished Espagnole sauce and a teaspoonful of glaze. Garnish of Young- Carrots a la Flamande Wash, scrape, and cut a bunch of young carrots into the shape of small pears, boil them in water for three minutes, drain them on a napkin, and then place them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, half an ounce of sugar, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; moisten with half a pint of consomme, and set them to boil gently on the fire for half an hour. As soon as they are done, boil them down to a glaze, and then add a tablespoonful of good Allemande sauce and a tea- spoonful of blanched and chopped parsley. This kind of garnish is very appropriate for braised beef, lamb, and hams.VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING 35 White Macedoine of Vegetables Prepare one or two carrots and one or two turnips in fancy shapes of small size; let each sort be separately boiled down to a glaze in a gill of stock, with the addition of a little sugar and salt and a very small piece of butter ; when done, put the whole together in a small saute-pan; to these add a small cucumber cut up and prepared for the purpose in scallops, a dessertspoonful of boiled green peas, a dessertspoonful of French beans cut in the shape of diamonds, a dessertspoonful of asparagus heads boiled green, and also some very small flowerets of boiled cauliflower; add a good gill of Allemande, Bechamel, or Supreme sauce, a little nutmeg and sugar; shake the whole lightly together over the fire, and use this garnish for the entree intended. Garnish of Brown Macedoine Prepare the vegetables for the Macedoine according to the directions given in the preceding recipe; when nearly ready, use some finished Espagnole sauce instead of the other sauces there mentioned. Garnish of Green Peas Boil nearly half a pint of young peas, drain them, and place them in a saute-pan, then add two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce, a pinch of sugar, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched mint, some nutmeg, half an ounce of butter, and a piece of glaze; shake the whole up well together over the fire, and serve them in the centre of an entree. Garnish of Stewed Peas Put half a pint of young peas into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter; on these pour a pint of cold spring water, and commence kneading the peas and butter together with the hand in the water; as soon as all the butter adheres to the peas, pour the water off, and then add a teaspoonful of sugar, a little salt, an onion, and a bunch of parsley. Set the peas to stew in a little water on a moderate fire; when they are done, set them on a brisk fire to boil quickly in order that they may by this means absorb all their moisture; then add a good tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce, with one ounce of butter, and dish them up in the centre of an entree. Garnish of Asparagus Heads Trim and cut the heads of a large bundle of asparagus, boil them green, and drain them on a napkin ; then place them in a saute-pan with a small tablespoonful of Allemande sauce, a little sugar, nutmeg, and a piece of glaze; toss them gently over the fire, and serve. Garnish of Asparagus Peas Cut a bundle of sprue asparagus into peas, boil them green, and follow the directions contained in the foregoing recipe.THE MODERN COOK 36 Garnish of Button Onions for Matelote Peel half a pint of small button onions, boil them in water for five minutes, drain them on a napkin, and afterwards place them in a small stew-pan with one ounce of clarified butter and a pinch of pounded sugar; then place the stew-pan on a slow fire and fry the onions to a light-brown colour, taking care to toss them up now and then that they may be equally coloured; when sufficiently coloured they will be nearly done. Then place them on a sieve to allow the butter to drain, and put them in a small stew-pan with a lump of sugar and a good gill of consomme; lastly, set them on the fire and boil them down to a glaze. Garnish of White Button Onions Peel and blanch half a pint of small button onions, put them into a stew-pan with a pat of butter, a lump of sugar, a little salt, and a half pint of white broth; set them on the fire to boil gently for half an hour, then boil them down quickly to a glaze, and finish by adding a dessertspoonful of Allemande sauce. Garnish of Windsor Beans Boil half a pint of young Windsor beans, peel off their husks, and place them in a saute-pan with a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, a pat of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce; throw in a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little winter savory; shake the whole well together over the fire, and place them in the centre of an entree. Garnish of French Beans Cut one or two handfuls of French beans into the shape of diamonds, boil them green, drain them on a napkin, and then put them into a saute-pan with a pat of butter, a little pepper and salt, a tablespoonful of white sauce, and a little lemon juice; toss them well together on the fire, and serve. Garnish of Artichoke Bottoms Remove the outer leaves from two globe artichokes; pare off with a knife the green surface from the bottom of the artichokes, so as to render them smooth and white; rub over each artichoke as it is finished with lemon juice, and instantly throw it into a basin of water in which a little vinegar has been mixed; then boil them in a stew- pan containing hot water, a piece of butter, mignonette pepper, salt, and a little lemon juice. When they are done, take them out, and after allowing them to cool extract the hay or inside fibres; trim them, and divide each artichoke into six pieces. Then place them in a saute-pan with a gill of Supreme sauce, a pat of butter, a table- spoonful of cream, nutmeg, and sugar; toss them gently on the fire, and, when the whole is well mixed, serve.37 VEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING Garnish of Glazed Onions Peel ten or twelve small onions of a similar size with a small vegetable-cutter; scoop out the heads of their roots—perforating the onions through and extracting the centre from each; boil them from three to five minutes in water, drain them on a napkin, and then place them in a saute-pan well buttered, add a little sugar, and sufficient stock to cover the onions ; set them on the stove to boil, and afterwards remove them to a slow fire, or place them in the oven, to simmer gently down to a glaze. Take care to turn the onions over in their glaze occasionally so that they may become equally coloured. Garnish of Broccoli or Cauliflowers Cut one small head of cauliflower or broccoli into small buds, trim these, and boil them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, salt, and a little mignonette pepper in the water; when they are done, drain them on a sieve, put them into a stew-pan with a good gill of Allemande or Bechamel sauce, and serve. Garnish of Brussels Sprouts Boil a couple of handfuls of Brussels sprouts, drain them well, and put them into a stew-pan with a gill of white sauce, one ounce of butter, salt, nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and lemon juice; toss the whole well together over the fire, and serve. Garnish of Chestnuts for Roast Turkey Slit the husks of two dozen chestnuts, and boil them in a stew-pan with enough water to cover until the husks easily peel off from the chestnuts; clean them thoroughly, and place them in a stew-pan with one lump of sugar, a little salt, a pat of butter, and half a pint of good consommd; set them to boil, and then place them by the side of the fire to continue boiling gently until they are nearly done; then boil them down to a glaze, occasionally tossing them over so as to cover them with their own glaze and give them a bright, shiny appearance. Garnish of Jerusalem Artichokes Peel three or four Jerusalem artichokes, and then cut them into the shape of olives, small pillars, cloves of garlic, half-moons, round balls, quarters of orange, or diamonds; wash them, place them in a stew-pan with a little sugar, salt, a pat of butter, and half a pint of white stock; set them to boil on the fire for about ten minutes ; when they are nearly done, boil them down in their glaze, add a dessertspoonful of Allemande or Bechamel sauce, toss them together over the fire, and serve. Garnish of Cloves of Garlic Peel as many heads of garlic as will produce a gill of cloves;1 boil these for ten minutes in plenty of water, drain them on to a 1 A head of garlic contains within its outer husk, or skin, a number of triangular seeds usually called cloves of garlic.THE MODERN COOK sieve, and then place them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, some mignonette pepper, a little salt, and half a pint of consommt;; boil them gently until they are nearly done, then let them boil down quickly to a glaze; add a tablespoonful of Allemande br Espagnole sauce (according to the colour of the entree), and a little lemon juice; toss them up over the fire, and serve. Garnish of White Haricot Beans Fresh white haricot beans, in their proper season, form a very excellent change among the more ordinary vegetables. Their cultiva- tion is, however, much neglected by gardeners in England. When fresh haricot beans are not procurable, get half a pint of dried haricot beans and steep them in cold water for twelve hours; let them be washed and placed in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, mignonette pepper, salt, and one quart of cold water; set them to boil gently by the side of a stove until tender; when done, drain them on to a sieve, place them in a clean stew-pan with a pat of butter, a gill of white sauce, a little pepper and salt, lemon juice, and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley; shake them well together over the fire, and serve. Garnish of Red Haricot Beans These should be prepared exactly in the same manner as the white beans. Lentils may be prepared after the same method as the haricot beans. They are useful in the winter season when there is a scarcity of fresh vegetables. Garnish of Braised Cabbage Trim and wash one good savoy cabbage, cut in halves, and boil it in water for a quarter of an hour; rinse in cold water, drain, and place on a napkin ; cut the stalk away, season with salt and mignon- ette pepper, tie up with a string—joining two halves together; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, place the cabbage in it; add a carrot, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; moisten with sufficient broth to cover the cabbage, and spread a buttered round of paper over the whole; then set them on the fire to boil, place the lid on the stew-pan, and allow it to remain gently boiling on a very slow fire for about an hour, when it will be done. Then drain the cabbage on to a sieve, remove the strings, press it in a napkin so as to be able afterwards to cut it into square, oblong, round, or oval shapes, according to taste; and with these garnish the entree or remove it is intended for. Garnish of Stewed Red Cabbages Trim, wash, and quarter a red cabbage, shred as you would if about to make pickled cabbage; then put about two ounces of butter at the bottom of a stew-pan, and place the shred cabbage in it; season with mignonette pepper and salt, and half a gill of French vinegar, cover the stew-pan with its lid, and set it on a moderate fire to stew gently ; take care to stir it occasionally with a wooden spoon. WhenVEGETABLES FOR GARNISHING 39 the cabbage has been reduced to half its original quantity, moisten with half a pint of stock; allow it to simmer gently on a slow fire for an hour longer; then drain the cabbage in a sieve, afterwards press it in a napkin to extract the butter, etc., and use it for the purpose of garnishing the entree or remove for which it has been prepared. Garnish of Braised Cabbage Lettuces Trim, wash, and blanch two or three full white-heart cabbage lettuces, drain them on a napkin, cut and spread them open, season with pepper and salt, tie them up with a string, and place them in a stew-pan on thin layers of fat bacon ; add a carrot, a bunch of parsley, and an onion stuck with two cloves; cover with a buttered round of paper, and moisten with a gill of white stock. Allow them to boil gently by the side of the fire for half an hour, drain them on a sieve, remove the strings, press them neatly in a napkin, and open each lettuce with a knife; then smooth the inner part, and with the knife turn the ends of the leaves under so as to give to the lettuce a smooth, rounded end; cut off the stalk neatly, and place each lettuce successively in a clean sautd-pan. Next, pass their liquor through a sieve into a stew-pan, remove every particle of grease, and boil it down to the consistency of half-glaze; add it to the lettuces, cover them with a buttered paper, and a quarter of an hour previously to their being required for use set them in the oven to get warm. Sauerkraut Procure one pound of fresh imported sauerkraut, wash it thoroughly- in several waters, and then drain it in a colander. Next, put it into a stew-pan with half a pound of parboiled streaky bacon, half a pound of German sausage, one carrot, one onion stuck with two cloves, and a bunch of herbs; cover with a round of buttered paper, and moisten with a pint of stock. Braise the sauerkraut for about three hours over a slow fire, and, when done, drain it in a colander, remove the bacon and German sausage, throw away the carrot, onion, and faggot; then put the sauerkraut into a stew-pan with a large table- spoonful of Poivrade sauce, toss it over the fire, and use it to garnish the intended dish. French Sauerkraut Split one or two white-heart cabbages into quarters, remove the cores, and shred them up fine; wash them thoroughly in several waters, then drain them in a colander. Next, place the shred cabbages in a large earthen pan, throw in a tablespoonful of salt and a gill of vinegar; toss the cabbage in this, and allow it to steep for three hours; then wash and drain it, and put it in a large stew- pan, season with two ounces of butter, some mignonette pepper, a little salt, and half a gill of French vinegar; place on the top half a pound of streaky bacon and half a pound of German sausage, moisten with a pint of good stock, cover the whole with buttered paper, and then set the sauerkraut to braise very gently over a slow fire for two hours ; and when it is done, proceed in the same manner as directed in the previous recipe.THE MODERN COOK 40 ESSENCES, GRAVIES, AND PREPARED SAVOURY BUTTERS, FOR FINISHING SAUCES, Etc. Essence of Shalots Peel six shalots, cut them into thin slices, and place them in a small stew-pan with one tablespoonful of French vinegar ; set them to simmer gently on the fire until the vinegar is nearly boiled down, then moisten with half a pint of consommd; set the essence on the fire to boil, and when it is reduced to half its original quantity, strain it with pressure through a napkin into a bain-marie, and keep it hot till wanted. Essence of Truffles Chop or pound four ounces of truffles—or if you have any trim- mings, use them instead ; place them in a small stew-pan with half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and a very small quantity of bruised garlic; moisten with a glass of French white wine, and allow the whole to simmer on the fire till the wine is nearly boiled down; add a gill of good consomme ; set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire for ten minutes, and then pass it with pressure through a napkin or tammy into a small basin or stew-pan. This essence will be found extremely useful for flavouring sauces and ragofits, in which the flavour of truffles should predominate. Essence of Mushrooms Chop four to six ounces of mushrooms ; place these in a stew- pan with a little lemon juice and a small piece of butter; simmer them on the fire for two or three minutes, and then moisten with half a pint of white stock ; set the essence to boil gently on the fire for ten minutes, and then pass it with pressure through a sieve into a basin for use. This essence is useful for flavouring sauces. Essence of Fine Herbs for Broiled Meats, etc. Chop two or three shalots, a handful of mushrooms, and a table- spoonful of parsley, each separately; place these in a small stew-pan with a sprig of thyme, half a bay leaf, and a small piece of butter; put the whole on the fire to simmer gently for two or three minutes, stirring the ingredients with a wooden spoon; moisten with the juice of half a lemon and half a pint of strong consomme; add a little mignonette pepper, and then set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire till it is reduced to half its original quantity ; then pass it with pressure through a sieve, and use it as a gravy for plain broiled bread-crumbed entrees. Essence of Orange for Wild Fowl Chop two shalots and put them into a small stew-pan with the rind of an orange, quite free from the white or pith, and one ounce of chopped lean of raw ham and a pinch of cayenne pepper; moistenESSENCES, GRAVIES, AND SAVOURY BUTTERS 41 with a glass of port wine and one gill of strong gravy; set the essence to simmer gently on the fire for about ten minutes, then add the juice of the orange with a little lemon juice, and pass it through a very fine sieve. Essence of Aspic Jelly Put the following ingredients into a small stew-pan : a few leaves of green tarragon, a little chervil, a dessertspoonful of chives, a bay-leaf, and sprig of thyme, mignonette pepper, a blade of mace, and one ounce of chopped raw lean of ham; moisten with half a pint of good consomme ; set the essence to boil gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes. Next take it off the stove, proceed to clarify by mixing with it half the white of an egg whipped up with a teaspoonful of water ; add a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and place it on the fire to boil, whipping it with a wire whisk the while; as soon as it boils up, remove it on the side to continue boiling gently in order to set the egg ; then strain it through a napkin, and use it for braised fowls or chickens h. l’Estragon or h l’lvoire. Essence of Woodcocks Chop up one or two carcases of woodcocks or snipes that may be left from the previous day’s dinner ; place them in a small stew-pan with one or two shalots, a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, mignonette pepper, a little mace, and two ounces of butter; fry the whole on the fire till the ingredients become lightly coloured; moisten with a small glass of white wine, and, after allowing it to boil down to a glaze, add half a pint of good consomme, and set the essence to boil gently on the side of the fire for half an hour ; skim and strain it through a fine sieve, and finish by adding a little lemon juice. This essence or gravy should be sent to table with roasted wood- cocks or snipes ; it will also be found useful for making a light hash of remnants of woodcocks or snipes for breakfast. Essence of Game for Broiled Partridges, etc. This essence is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, substituting the remnants or carcases of pheasants or partridges for woodcocks. Essence of Garlic for Broiled Fowl Chop a little raw lean of ham, some parsley, thyme, and a bay- leaf ; place these in a small stew-pan with a blade of mace, two pounded anchovies, and six cloves of garlic ; moisten with one table- spoonful of French vinegar, and set the whole on the fire to simmer gently for five minutes ; add a small piece of glaze and half a pint of good veal stock, and allow the essence to boil gently by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour; reduce it to half its original quantity, and then strain it through a tammy into a small stew-pan; finish by adding a little lemon juice and cayenne pepper.THE MODERN COOK 42 Essence of Anchovies for Steaks, etc. Soak, wash, and dry six anchovies, pound them in a mortar with a dessertspoonful of capers and two shalots; place these in a small stew-pan with thyme and a bay-leaf, mace, mignonette pepper, and one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup; set these ingredients on the fire to simmer gently for five minutes, and then moisten with half a pint of good consomme ; boil the whole till reduced to half its original quantity, then strain it with pressure through a tammy into a small stew- pan ; finish by adding a small piece of glaze and a little lemon juice. Essence of Sage and Onions for Geese and Ducks Chop two large onions and a dozen sage leaves separately, put them into a small stew-pan with a pat of butter, some pepper and salt, and fry them on a slow fire; as soon as the onion begins to get lightly coloured, moisten with half a pint of veal stock and allow the essence to boil on the fire till reduced to half the quantity; strain it through a tammy into a small stew-pan for use. This gravy may also be used for bread-crumbed entrees of broiled pork. Essence of Onions for Broiled Pork Cut one or two onions into slices, and fry them in a small stew- pan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; when they are of a light colour, moisten with half a pint of veal stock; reduce the essence by boiling to half its quantity, and strain it into a bain-marie for use. Anchovy Butter Wash and wipe dry six anchovies; separate the fillets from the bones, and pound them in a mortar with two ounces of butter and a little cayenne pepper; rub this mixture through a hair-sieve, gather this up, and keep it in a small basin in a cool place for use. Ravigote Butter Wash and wipe four anchovies, blanch one ounce of green tarragon, half an ounce of chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley; press these in a napkin to drain off the water, and put the anchovies, herbs, three ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of capers, a little cayenne pepper, and a pinch of salt into a mortar, and pound them well together; then rub the mixture through a hair-sieve, gather it up, and keep in a small basin on the ice for use. Proven^ale Butter This is prepared in the same manner as the preceding, adding, however, two or three cloves of garlic to the other ingredients. Lobster Butter Procure some lobster spawn or coral and pound it with twice as much butter, one anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper; rub it through a hair-sieve into a small basin, and keep it in a cool place till wanted for use.RAGOUTS AND GARNISHES IN GENERAL 43 Montpellier Butter Blanch two ounces of tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley; drain off the water, and pound them with the yolks of six boiled eggs, six cleaned anchovies, one dessertspoonful of French capers, and two or three green gherkins; when these ingredients are thoroughly pounded together, mix in three or four ounces of fresh butter, then add by degrees a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and two of salad oil; season with pepper and salt; rub the butter thus pre- pared through a sieve or tammy, colour it with a drop or two of spinach green, and keep it in a basin on the ice till wanted for use. Crayfish Butter Remove the shells from half a pint of crayfish, place them on a baking-sheet in the oven to dry; let the shells cool, and then pound them in a mortar with a little lobster coral and three ounces of fresh butter; thoroughly bruise the whole well together so as to form them into a kind of paste, put this into a stew-pan, and then set it on the fire to simmer for about five minutes; then fub it through a tammy with considerable pressure into a basin containing some cold water, with a piece of ice in it; as soon as the coloured crayfish butter is become set, through the coldness of the water, take it out and put it into a small basin in a cool place till wanted for use. Green Ravigote Butter Blanch two ounces of tarragon, chervil, burnet, chives, and parsley; press them in a napkin, and pound them with three or four ounces of fresh butter, cayenne pepper, and salt; rub the butter through a hair-sieve, and keep it on the ice in a small basin for use. Epicurean Butter for the Table Pound four cleaned anchovies, a few chives, a good teaspoonful of green tarragon leaves, one or two gherkins, two boiled yolks of eggs, three ounces of butter, and a good teaspoonful of French mustard ; mix thoroughly, season with little salt, and rub the butter through a hair-sieve; gather it up into a small basin, make it sufficiently firm by keeping it on the ice, and mould it into pats for the purpose of being sent to table to be served with the cheese. RAGOUTS AND GARNISHES IN GENERAL Toulouse Ragout Prepare one dozen fine large white cocks’ combs and kernels, two dozen button mushrooms, some small scallops of sweetbreads, and a proportionate quantity of truffles trimmed in the shape of scallops or olives; place these in a small stew-pan, and add to it half a pint of Allemande or Supreme sauce; toss the whole together over the fire a few minutes—it will be then ready for use.THE MODERN COOK 44 Financi^re Ragout Place in a stew-pan a similar ragofit to the foregoing, with one dozen or so of small quenelles, and add half a pint of well-finished Financiere sauce; allow the whole to boil slightly on the fire. Use this ragoilt for garnishing the remove or entree, as the case may be. Calf’s Head Ragout a la Tortue Put one dozen or more fine white cocks’ combs into a bain-marie or stew-pan, a similar quantity of cocks’ kernels, small truffles, button mushrooms, quenelles, and green gherkins, cut into the shape of olives; to these add a good half pint of Turtle sauce (see p. 4) for the purpose, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a minute or two, and serve. Chipolata Ragout Twist three or four pork sausages into small round balls, separate these, fry them, and when they are cold, trim and put them into a bain-marie containing a dozen cocks’ combs and kernels, button mushrooms, truffles, quenelles, three or four carrots, and three or four turnips trimmed in the shape of olives, and boiled down in their own glaze, also a few round balls of braised streaky bacon, and an equal proportion of chestnuts, peeled and boiled in consomme; add a good half pint of Madeira sauce (see p. 4), half a gill of essence of truffles and mushrooms; then set the ragout on the fire to boil for two minutes, and serve. Note.—The above is the simplest mode for preparing this ragout. It is far better, however, that the whole of the ingredients of which this very rich and popular ragout is composed should be kept separ- ately in small-stew-pans, and be placed alternately in groups about the dish they are meant to garnish and ornament; then the boiling sauce should be poured over the turkey, capon, or chickens when ready to serve. Strasbourg Ragout of Fat Livers Braise a fat liver in half a pint of mirepoix (see p. 57), take it out to cool, cut it into scallops and trim them neatly; put them into a small stew-pan with some of the mirepoix freed from every particle of fat, add an equal quantity of scalloped truffles, and just before using these, set them on the stove and boil them down to a glaze; add half a pint of Financihre sauce, and serve. Perigueux Ragotit Prepare one dozen scallops of fat livers and truffles, as for the foregoing ragofit: to these add equal quantities of small quenelles, cocks’ combs and kernels, and button mushrooms; then add half a pint of Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), and boil the whole together for two or three minutes. Matelote Ragout Peel and blanch a dozen or so of button onions; fry them to a light-brown colour over a slow fire; when done, drain them on to aRAGOUTS AND GARNISHES IN GENERAL 45 sieve in order to free them from the butter, and place them in a bain-marie with an equal quantity of white button mushrooms, crayfish tails, and some quenelles of whiting; to these add half a pint of Matelote sauce (see p. 9), and after allowing the ragofit to boil for two or three minutes, use it for garnishing the matelote or any other dressed coloured fish it is intended for. Matelote Normande Ragout Prepare one dozen of crayfish tails, and place them in a stew-pan with an equal proportion of mussels, parboiled oysters, and white button mushrooms; to these add half a pint of Matelote Normande sauce (see p. 9), allow the whole to boil up a minute or two on the stove, and use the ragofit to garnish soles or other fish for which it is prepared. Bourguignote Ragout Peel and blanch about a dozen small button onions, put them into a stew-pan with a lump of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a pat of butter; moisten with a small half pint of good stock, and set the onions to stew gently on a moderate fire; when nearly done, boil them down to a glaze and add them to an equal quantity of white button mushrooms and very small quenelles; to these put half a pint of Bourguignote sauce (see p. 8); allow the ragofit to boil up on the fire for a minute or two, and use it to garnish the entree it may be intended for. Crayfish Ragofit Take out and trim the tails of one dozen crayfish; with the bodies and shells make some crayfish butter (see p. 43), to be used in colouring some quenelles of whitings, afterwards moulded with teaspoons, poached, and placed with the crayfish; to these add three-quarters of a pint of Allemande or Supreme sauce, with which mix in a little of the butter made with the shells of the crayfish, and serve the ragout with the dish it is meant for. Rouennaise Ragofit Prepare one dozen of the following shell-fish—oysters, mussels, and shrimps; to these add a dozen small button mushrooms and quenelles of lobster, and moisten the ragout with a sauce made in the following manner:—Reduce one gill of the liquor of the mussels, oysters, and mushrooms with one glass of French white wine, and the addition of one gill of Veloute sauce'; finish by mixing in one yolk of egg, a pat of butter, and a dessertspoonful of cream ; stir the sauce on the fire tills it boils, and then pass it through a tammy on to the ragofit. Before sending to table, add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and the juice of half a lemon. About four to six smelts, trussed in the same manner as whitings for frying, and boiled in a little salt and water, and afterwards skinned and glazed, should be prepared to garnish round the fish with which the Rouennaise ragofit is served.46 THE MODERN COOK Ragofit of Scallops of Sweetbreads First, blanch and then braise in a little white stock two or three throat sweetbreads for about twenty minutes ; then take them up on a plate, and allow them to cool; cut them into neat scallops and place them in a small stew-pan with half a pint of any sort of sauce appropriate to the entree which this ragout is intended to garnish. A similar kind of ragout may be prepared with lambs’ sweet- breads, calves’, sheep’s, or lambs’ brains. Ragofit of Soft Roes of Mackerel or other Fish Parboil the soft roes of two or three mackerel or carp in a little boiling water mixed with one tablespoonful of French vinegar and a little salt; drain them on a napkin, and put them into a saute-pan containing a small half pint of Allemande or Supreme sauce ; add one dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little nut- meg and lemon juice; toss the whole gently together over the fire, taking care not to break or bruise the roes, and place them in the centre of the fillets of fish prepared to receive them. Cardinal Ragout Prepare one dozen small quenelles of lobster, which place in a stew-pan with the same quantity of picked and trimmed prawns’ tails, button mushrooms, and small round truffles; to these add half a pint of Cardinal sauce for the remove or entree ; then boil the ragofit for three minutes on the fire, when it will be ready for use. Ragout of Scallops of Soles, etc. Fillet two fine soles, or a proportionate quantity of any other sort of fish; place them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set them in the oven for about ten minutes; when they are done, drain them on a napkin and afterwards place them on a dish to be put in the larder to cool. Next cut them into neatly trimmed scallops, and put these into a stew-pan; add either half a pint of Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, or Dutch sauce, whichever is most suitable for the kind of fish these scallops are intended to garnish. Ragofit of Scallops of Salmon or Trout These scallops should be prepared in every respect in the same manner as the foregoing, except that, previous to adding the sauce, a little lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice should be mixed in. Parisian Ragofit One dozen trimmed crayfish tails, button mushrooms, small round truffles, and cocks’ kernels should be put into a stew-pan con- taining half a pint of Parisian sauce (see p. n); make the ragout hot previously to using it.47 ragoOts and garnishes in general Ragout of Scallops of Poultry or Game Prepare some fillets from poultry or game according to the quantity of ragout required ; trim, and place them in a saute-pan with two ounces of clarified fresh butter, season with a little salt, cover them with a buttered paper, and set them over a moderate fire to simmer; as soon as they become firm and white on the under side, turn them over that they may be effectually done through, taking care that they do not become brown; then drain them on a napkin, and cut them on the slant into scallops, trim them neatly, and put them into a stew-pan with half a pint of Allemande, Bechamel, or Supreme sauce, previously reduced with either an essence of fowl or game, as the case may be, according to the nature of the scallops, whether of poultry or game. Ragout of Scallops of Larks Cut out, trim, and slightly simmer in a little butter the fillets of ten to a dozen larks; drain them on a napkin, and place them in a small stew-pan with a sauce made as follows : Fry the carcases of the larks in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme, a little salt and grated nutmeg; when they are of a light-brown colour moisten with one or two glasses of French white wine; allow the carcases to stew gently on a moderate fire for half an hour; pound the whole thoroughly, and rub it through a tammy into a puree; put into a small stew-pan, add a gill of reduced brown sauce, and pour it on to the scallops; warm them with care, for if they be allowed to boil it will spoil the look of the puree and render it rough. Ragout of Cocks’ Kernels a la Soubise Put about one dozen of cocks’ kernels with cold water into a stew-pan; let it stand by the side of a slow fire to remove the little blood they contain, taking care that the water does not become too warm ; as soon as they whiten, drain them on a sieve, and put them into a small stew-pan with a pat of butter, the juice of a lemon, and a little salt; toss them over the fire for two or three minutes, moisten with half a pint of white chicken stock, and set them to simmer gently on a slow fire for about ten minutes longer; they will be then done. Drain them on a napkin, put them into a small stew-pan with a gill of Soubise sauce and a gill of Allemande sauce, toss them gently over the fire till they are hot, and place them in the centre of an entree of fillets of fowl h. la Marechale or il la d’Uxelles. Richelieu Ragout Prepare three or four ounces of quenelle force-meat of chicken, and before moulding the quenelles incorporate with it two teaspoon- fuls of brown puree of onions (of which there must be prepared a sufficient quantity (half a pint) for the sauce of the ragoflt); mould one dozen small quenelles, poach them, and, after draining them on48 THE MODERN COOK a napkin, put them into a small stew-pan with half-a-dozen white cocks’ combs and a few scallops of fat livers; to these add the remainder of the brown purde of onions, which must be no thicker than sauce. This ragofit may be used for garnishing boudins k la Richelieu, or any entrees of poultry or game that are bread-crumbed and broiled. Ragout of Chicken’s Wings This ragoftt is only to be recommended when it happens that a certain number of fowls or chickens have to be cut up for other purposes; in such case, save the wings, which cut off close to the breast, bone them neatly, without tearing or cutting the skin, and fill up the cavity occasioned by taking the bone out with some quenelle force-meat of fowl; shape them neatly and parboil them, immerse them in cold water, then drain and trim.them. Line a stew-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, place the wings therein with a bunch of parsley, thyme, a bay-leaf, and an onion; moisten with one pint of white stock, cover them with a round of buttered paper, and set them to boil gently by the side of the stove for about twenty minutes, when, if the fowls are young, the wings will be done. Then drain the wings on a napkin, and, when trimmed, put them into a small stew-pan with half a pint of Allemande sauce. This ragout is more generally made use of for filling vol-au-vents, casseroles of rice, and chartreuses ; it is also useful, as an accessory, for garnishing large removes. Ragout of Ox=Palates Steep three or four ox-palates in water for several hours, keeping the vessel that contains them near the stove-fire, so that the water may become gradually tepid, which materially helps to cleanse them; then scald and scrape them clean, trim, wash, and set them to braise in some blanc or poele (see p. 57); about four hours will suffice. When the palates are done, drain and put them in press between two dishes ; when cold, shape them out with a round cutter an inch in diameter, and place them in a stew-pan with a good half pint of either of the following sauces—Allemande, Bechamel, Supreme, Italienne, Financiere, Poivrade, or Tomato. This ragout is strictly appropriate only for garnishing pates-chauds and vol-au-vents, but it may, in cases of emergency, be served as an entree, garnished round with croquettes of potatoes or fleurons of pastry. Ragofit of Sheep’s Tongues a 1’Ecarlate Boil and press two or three sheep’s tongues that have been cured with saltpetre; trim and cut them into round scallops, and then put these scallops into a small stew-pan with half a pint of any kind of sauce that may be suitable for the entrde they are meant to garnish. Regent’s Ragout Fillet an eel, cut it into scallops, and simmer these in a stew-pan with a little butter, chopped parsley, lemon juice, pepper, and salt; when done, drain the scallops on a napkin, and then put them into49 BROTHS, CONSOMMES, ETC. a stew-pan containing eight to ten white button mushrooms, cocks’ combs, small round truffles, and small quenelles of whiting (see p. 60) coloured with lobster coral; to these add half a pint of Regency sauce (see p. 13), then allow the ragout to boil up on the lire, and use it for garnishing the dressed fish it is intended for. BROTHS, CONSOMMES, Etc. Nutritive Soup Into a gallon stock-pot put a pound of knuckle of veal, two pounds of the shoulder part of beef (commonly called the gravy- piece), and one pound of bones of roast beef or mutton. Fill the stock-pot with cold water to within two inches of the brim and set it upon the fire to boil, taking care not to hurry the process, but allow it to take place gently, so that it may have time to throw up its scum; this should be removed, as it rises to the surface, and a little cold water should be thrown in occasionally to effect that purpose. When the stock has thrown off all its scum, which will easily be perceived by the water becoming clear again, lift it off the stove and put it by the side. Then proceed to garnish it with two leeks and one head of celery trimmed and tied together, two good-sized carrots, two turnips, and two onions, into each of which two cloves have been inserted ; add one good tablespoonful of salt, and let the whole boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour. During this time, an old hen or a partridge should be partially roasted, and then put into the stock; this should continue to boil during five hours without stopping, care being taken that the stock-pot be kept full. Previous to the soup being served, take off every particle of fat that appears on the surface with a ladle ; take out the vegetables, carefully placing them on a napkin, then remove the fowl or the partridge from the stock : these operations should be so managed as not to disturb the brightness of the broth. Cut the fillets of the fowl or the partridge into slices and place them in the soup tureen, and upon these put some of the vegetables (which have been drained on the napkin) neatly cut with a vegetable-cutter a quarter of an inch in diameter; then pour in the broth, to which add a little brown consomme of veal to give it colour. Let it be sufficiently seasoned with salt, and a pinch of mignonette pepper, then serve. Consomme for Soups in General Take about three pounds of gravy beef, and a similar quantity of knuckles of veal, together with one wild rabbit, and put the whole into a large stock-pot; add two gallons of common stock so as nearly to cover the meat. Put the stock-pot on the fire to boil until the stock is reduced to a light-coloured glaze; then fill it up with one gallon of foundation stock, and after it has boiled and been skimmed, garnish it with two carrots, two turnips, two leeks, two onions, and one head of celery ; add also two blades of mace and six cloves. ETHE MODERN COOK 5° In all cases be sparing of salt, especially in the first stages of pre- paration. Allow the stock to boil gently on the side of the stove for six hours, and then pour it into kitchen-pans for further use. Chicken Consomme Take a small fowl, roast before a brisk fire until half done, and then put into a small well-tinned stock-pot, nearly filled up with three quarts of water, and place this on the fire to boil; skim the consomme, and then add one good-sized carrot, one turnip, one onion, one stick of celery, two cloves, a small piece of mace, and a little salt. Set the stock on the side of the stove to boil gently for about two hours, and then strain it off for use. This kind of consomme is admirably adapted for persons of delicate health as a restorative. It is also very serviceable in im- parting delicacy of flavour to all clear soups. Consomme of Pheasants or Partridges Roast a pheasant, after having taken out the fillets for the purpose of making them into an entree, or two partridges may be used (removing the fillets in the same way); put them into a stock- pot with a pound of knuckle of veal and about a quarter of a pound of lean ham; fill up with one gallon of water, then set it to boil on the stove-fire. Meanwhile slice up a carrot, also an onion, a head of celery, and a leek; fry these roots in a stew-pan with a small piece of butter till they become slightly browned, then throw them into the consomme after having previously well skimmed it Add three cloves, a piece of mace, and a little salt; let it boil gently for about three hours, and then strain it off for use. This preparation will serve for all kinds of clear consomme soups, such as au Chasseur or a la Deslignac, etc. Brown Consomme of Rabbits Take a wild rabbit, cut up in pieces, and put into a small stock- pot with one pound of knuckle of veal which has been roasted enough to colour it; fill up with three quarts of light stock or water, then set it on the stove to boil; skim it well, and garnish with a carrot, an onion, and a stick of celery, two cloves, a piece of mace, and a little salt. Let this boil gently for three hours, and then strain it off for use. This consomme is very essential in clarifying Espagnole or brown sauce, and is also serviceable for all soups in which quenelles of game are served. White Consomme of Fowls Take one old hen or fowl, or, in their stead, the carcase of a fowl, or any other sort of poultry you may have. Let it steep in cold water to remove any blood it may contain; then drain and put into an appropriate-sized stock-pot or stew-pan, and fill it up with three quarts of common stock or water; garnish with celery, one onion, one turnip, one carrot, and one leek. Set it to boil gently by theBROTHS, CONSOMMES, ETC. 51 fire for two hours, if made with a carcase, but if an old hen is used it will require at least an hour longer. When done, skim off the fat and pass the consomme through a cloth into a basin for use. This consomme may be considered as the proper basis of all white soups, and is most useful in clarifying and flavouring all white sauces. White Consomme of Pheasants or Partridges The same process is to be followed in making this consommd as the foregoing, substituting, of course, game for poultry. This consomm^, after being partially reduced to glaze, is used for the purpose of imparting the flavour of game to any white sauce, such as Supreme, Allemande, Bechamel, Veloutd, or white Italian sauce. It is also useful for mixing white purees of game. Brown Extract of Larks or Quails After having filleted four or six larks or quails, and removed the gizzards from the trail of the larks, put a stew-pan on the fire with an ounce of fresh butter in it; when the butter begins to get hot, put the bones or carcases of the larks or quails into the stew-pan and fry them brown. Then add half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, two shalots, and one glass of either sherry or Marsala. Let these simmer gently for five minutes, after which add one quart of common stock. Allow the extract to boil slowly by the side of the fire for three-quarters of an hour; pass it through a hair-sieve into a basin and reserve it for working the sauces intended for gratins of quails or larks, and also for fumet sauces for p&tes-chauds of either of the previously mentioned small birds. Extract of woodcocks or snipes is obtained in a similar manner. Extract of Hare or Rabbit This is made by putting the bones or carcases of either a hare or rabbit into a stew-pan with two or three glasses of any sort of white wine, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and two shalots, and then sub- mitting it to the action of a rather slow fire, until the liquid becomes reduced to a glaze, when a quart of common stock should be added. Put it on a brisk fire to boil, skim it well, and then put it by the side of the stove to simmer gently for an hour and a half, after which time pass it through a napkin into a basin, and keep it for use as occasion may require. Common Gravy Spread the bottom of a middle-sized stew-pan with two ounces of butter; place some slices of onions over this, and then add two pounds of gravy beef cut into thick slices, and any trimmings of meat there may be to spare; moisten with a quart of common stock, and set the stew-pan over a brisk fire to boil. When the stock is reduced to glaze, slacken the heat of the fire, and allow the gravy to acquire a deep red-brown colour ; then fill the stew-pan up with two quarts of common stock or water, garnish with two carrots, a stick of celery,THE MODERN COOK 52 six cloves, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns, and, if the gravy has been filled up with water, add a tablespoonful of salt. Put the gravy to boil on the fire, skim it thoroughly, then remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for about three hours ; next strain it through a napkin into another stew-pan, and proceed immediately to clarify it in the following manner :—Whisk up three whites of eggs with a little spring water, and after having removed all the grease from the surface of the gravy, incorporate the whites of eggs in with it; whisk it over the fire until it is nearly boiling, and then set it to simmer by the side for a quarter of an hour, and strain it through a cloth into a basin for use. Blond de Veau, or Veal Gravy Having first well buttered a large stew-pan, lay therein a quarter of a pound of the lean part of a ham cut in slices, a pound of knuckle of veal; to these add an old hen or a couple of wild rabbits. Pour three pints of common stock over the meat, etc., and after putting the cover on the stew-pan, place it on the fire to boil down to a glaze ; then slacken the heat so that it may gradually become browned. When the glaze darkens to a deep red tinge, fill it up with two quarts of common stock or water, and set it on the stove; as soon as it boils, skim it thoroughly, garnish with two carrots, two turnips, two onions, one stick of celery, three cloves, and a blade of mace; and after it has boiled gently by the side of the stove-fire for three hours, strain it through a cloth into basins for use. This consomme is used for clearing and working the foundation Espagnole sauce, for colouring clear soups, and also for finishing some of the special sauces. SOUPS FOR INVALIDS Plain Chicken Broth Cut a young fowl or chicken into four parts ; wash these well in cold water, and put the pieces into a stew-pan with one quart of spring water and a very little salt; set it to boil on the fire, skim it well, and then add the heart of a white cabbage lettuce and a tablespoonful of chervil; boil the broth for about an hour, and then strain it through a cloth into a basin. Chicken Broth Cut up a young fowl into several pieces, put them into a stew-pan with three pints of spring water ; set it on the fire to boil; skim it well, and add a little salt. Take two tablespoonfuls of pearl barley, wash it in several waters, and add it to the broth, together with one ounce of marshmallow roots cut into shreds, for the purpose of better extracting its healing properties. The broth should then boil one hour, and be passed through a napkin or cloth into a basin, to be kept ready for use.53 SOUPS FOR INVALIDS Mutton Broth Take two pounds of the scrag-end of a neck of very fresh mutton, cut it into several pieces, wash them in cold water, and put them into a stew-pan with two quarts of cold water ; then place the stew- pan on the fire to boil, skim it well, and then add a couple of turnips cut into slices, two carrots, a tablespoonful of parsley, a sprig of green thyme, and a little salt. When it has boiled gently by the side of the stove for an hour and a half, skim off the fat from the surface, and then let it be strained through a fine sieve into a basin and kept for use. Beef Tea Take one pound of the lean part of the gravy piece of beef, and carefully remove every portion of fat, skin, or sinew ; shred this into small pieces ; put the beef into a stew-pan, and pour one pint of cold water upon it; add a little salt, put it on the fire, and as soon as it gets warm skim it, and then remove it to the side of the stove, to continue simmering gently for an hour, after which the beef tea should be strained through a cloth for use. Crayfish Broth, for Purifying the Blood Take one pound of the lean part of very white veal, cut it into small pieces, and pound it well in a mortar ; to this add one dozen crayfish and a dessertspoonful of green chervil, and pound these together so as to thoroughly bruise the crayfish. Then remove the whole into a stew-pan, and pour upon it about one quart of cold water; add a little salt, and place the stew-pan on the stove to boil; after which set it by the side of the fire, and keep it gently simmering for three-quarters of an hour; it may then be strained through a cloth for use. This kind of broth, in order to promote the desired effect, should be taken by the convalescent upon an empty stomach. Decoction of Snails for Inveterate Coughs Take one dozen garden snails, add to these the hind-quarters only of one dozen stream frogs, previously skinned; bruise them together in a mortar, after which put them into a stew-pan with a turnip chopped small, a little salt, a quarter of an ounce of hay saffron, and one quart of cold water. Stir these on the fire until the broth begins to boil, then skim it well, and set it by the side of the fire to simmer for half an hour; after which it should be strained by pressure through a tammy cloth into a basin for use. This broth, from its soothing qualities, often counteracts success- fully the straining effects of a severe cough, and alleviates more than any other culinary preparation the sufferings of the consumptive. Mucilaginous Broth for Persons in Delicate Health Take a young fowl, cut it into several parts, and wash them thoroughly; put these into a stew-pan, add thereto one pound of the lean of very white veal, a couple of turnips, one carrot, and one54 THE MODERN COOK stick of celery—the whole to be cut into small pieces; fill up the stew-pan with two quarts of spring water, and put in on the stove to boil, taking care to remove the scum as it rises to the surface. After the broth has thrown off the albumen of the meat in the shape of scum, add to it two ounces of Ceylon moss or Irish (Carrageen) moss, taking special care to well mix the preparation with the broth. Keep the pan gently boiling by the side of the stove-fire for one hour and a quarter; then pass the broth through a napkin into an earthen vessel, and put it by for use. This broth is nutritious and cooling, and its use in cases of sore throat will often prove beneficial. LIGHT SOUPS AND PANADAS FOR INFANTS AND INVALIDS Nutritious Liquid Custard of Chicken Prepare the chicken broth as directed for making chicken custards ; take half a pint of this and mix it thoroughly with two yolks of new- laid eggs; stir it over the stove-fire, or, if practicable, over the heat of steam, until the mixture becomes somewhat thickened, assuming a soft creamy appearance; pour it into a broth basin or caudle-cup, and let it be instantly served. Nutritious Liquid Custard of Game This sort of custard is prepared similarly to the foregoing, sub- stituting pheasant or partridge for poultry. Ceylon Moss Gelatinous Chicken Broth Cut a fowl into four parts, take out the lungs, and wash it thoroughly ; place it in a stew-pan with two ounces of prepared Ceylon moss, or Iceland or Irish moss, adding three pints of water and a little salt; having boiled the broth for three-quarters of an hour by the side of a stove-fire, pass it through a napkin, and serve it in a caudle- cup to the invalid. Chicken Panada Take all the white parts of the breast of a small chicken and pound them with two or three ounces of the crumb of a French roll soaked in broth; dilute these 'with a little chicken broth to the con- sistency of a soft batter or creamy substance; pass it through a tammy or fine sieve as in preparing any other puree. Previous to serving this panada it should be moderately warmed and put into custard-cups. In the composition of every sort of dietetic prepara- tion for the use of infants and invalids it is strictly necessary to avoid the use of herbs, vegetables, and spices: even salt should be used sparingly.55 BRAISES, PO&LES, MIREPOIX, ETC. Pheasant or Partridge Panada Pheasant or partridge panada is prepared in the same manner as described for making the chicken panada, game being substituted for poultry. Chicken or Game Custards Cut a small fowl into quarters, take the lungs away from the back- bone, wash the fowl, and then place it in a stew-pan with a little parsley, chervil, half a stick of celery, one small onion, and a turnip. Fill the stew-pan with three pints of cold water, place it on the fire, and as soon as it boils skim it thoroughly, and set it by the side of the fire to remain boiling for an hour; after which strain the broth into a basin through a napkin, and use it in the following manner :— According to the number of custard-cups required to be filled, place so many yolks of eggs in a basin; to these add the same number of custard-cupfuls of prepared chicken broth, and with a spoon or fork beat these together in order to mix them thoroughly; then pass them by pressure through the tammy, fill the custard-cups, steam them in the usual manner, and send them up quickly. These custards should be eaten very soon after being made as they become heavy when warmed a second time. Venison Panada Take a quarter of a pound of the lean part of either a roasted haunch or neck of venison, mince it, and then pound it with two ounces of the crumb of a French roll which has been soaked in good broth; dilute with a little consomme, and pass the panada through a tammy or fine sieve as usual. Just before sending this panada up warm it carefully so as not to allow it to get too hot, as it would then be liable to become somewhat decomposed and rough and rather indigestible for a delicate stomach. BRAISES, POELES, MIREPOIX, Etc. Braise for General Purposes Take one pound of fillet of veal, half a pound of fat Yorkshire ham, one head of celery, and the same number of onions and carrots ; cut all these into small square pieces, add a bay-leaf, thyme, parsley, one clove of garlic, two blades of mace, and half-a-dozen cloves; throw these ingredients into a middle-sized stew-pan in which has been melted down three or four ounces of fresh butter ; put the stew- pan on the fire, stirring its contents frequently with a wooden spoon, while the vegetables, etc., are frying. When this mixture becomes slightly browned, pour into the pan a gill of Cognac brandy, allow it to simmer for five minutes, and then add two quarts of common stock. Keep the braise gently boiling for an hour and a half, then strain it off through a tammy cloth (using considerable pressure) into a kitchen-pan, and put it away in the larder, to be used for purposes that will be hereafter explained.THE MODERN COOK 56 White Poele for Poultry Cut into dice-shaped pieces half a pound of beef suet, one pound of veal, and the same kind of vegetables, etc., as described in the above-mentioned braise; to these add the juice and pulp of one lemon, removing the pips; put these ingredients into a middle-sized stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter, and stir them on a slow fire until the suet is quite melted; then add two quarts of common broth, and keep the poele gently boiling for an hour; it should then be passed through a sieve into an earthen pan, and reserved for the purpose of braising poultry in. Note.—The two foregoing preparations, although very desirable in imparting a rich succulent flavour to poultry, game, etc., are neverthe- less to be regarded rather as luxurious than essential. Good white or brown stock, as the case may require, can be used as economical substitutes. Frying- Batter for Fillets of Fish, Poultry, Game, etc., a la Horly, or a la Royale Put into a basin four ounces of sifted flour, a little salt, one yolk of egg, and half an ounce of fresh butter previously melted in a small stew-pan; to these add gradually about a gill of tepid water, and stir the whole' together with a wooden spoon until the batter has acquired the consistency and appearance of rich-looking double cream ; it may then be put aside in the larder until within half an hour of its being wanted, when the whites of two eggs, well whisked into a snow-like froth, should be incorporated with it. Frying Batter, for all Sorts of Fruit Fritters Put into a basin four ounces of sifted flour, one ounce of fresh butter (melted), one wine-glassful of Curagoa, and a very little salt; mix these gently together with a wooden spoon, gradually pouring into the basin about half a gill of bitter ale. When the batter becomes mixed to the thickness of double cream, set it aside while you whisk the whites of two eggs into a substantial froth, and instantly incorporate this with it. Many prefer such fritters as pineapple, peach, apricot, or plum, fried with a plainer kind of batter, in making which water is substi- tuted for ale. Boiled Marinade Cut into slices and put into a stew-pan one carrot, one onion, and a stick of celery, to which add a few leaves of parsley, a bay-leaf, thyme and sweet basil, half-a-dozen cloves, a blade of mace, a clove of garlic, and two ounces of raw ham (cut into small square pieces), a tablespoonful of peppercorns, and two ounces of butter. Stir these ingredients together over the fire until they become lightly browned ; then pour over them a quart of French white wine vinegar, and let the marinade boil quickly for five minutes, then add one pint of common stock ; allow the whole to boil gently for one hour; strainBRAISES, POELES, MIREPOIX, ETC. 57 it off through a tammy cloth (using considerable pressure) into a kitchen pan, and reserve it for use. This marinade is used for the purpose of preserving larded beef, mutton, venison, or roebuck, as well as to braise either of these in, when it is wished to dress them a la Chevreuil or roebuck fashion. Cold Marinade, or Pickle Take a large earthen vessel capable of containing whatever joint is intended to be marinaded or pickled, then cut into very thin slices or shreds two carrots and as many onions; add to these a few cloves, mace, peppercorns, a sprig of thyme, bay-leaves and basil, and a tablespoonful of salt. After having mixed all these together, pour in about two pints of cold water and one pint of vinegar; keep the pan (containing the marinade) covered with its lid in a cool place, for the purpose of pickling therein joints of red deer, roebuck, mountain hares, fillets of mutton or beef, etc. In Scotland this sort of marinade will prove very serviceable, especially if cooking for a shooting party, and when the larders are well supplied with moor and Highland game. Blanc or White Braise for Calves’ Heads or Ears, and also for Lambs’ Feet or Ears Chop two or three ounces of beef suet and the same quantity of fat bacon ; put these into a stew-pan, together with a bunch of herbs and parsley, a couple of carrots and onions, inserting four cloves into one of the latter; add the pulp of one lemon, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little salt; place the stew-pan on the fire for about ten minutes, carefully stirring the ingredients the whole time in order to prevent them from acquiring a brown colour; then pour in three pints of water to produce the quantity of blanc required. Allow the blanc to boil one hour, then strain it through a hair-sieve and use it for the purpose intended. Mirepoix for Braising Game, etc. Take half a pound of fat bacon and half a pound of lean ham, two carrots, two onions, three or four mushrooms, three shalots, a clove of garlic, two bay-leaves, some sprigs of thyme, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns; cut these ingredients up into small square pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter, and fry them brown ; then add two glasses of Madeira or sherry and a pint of good broth ; boil the mirepoix by the side of the fire for about an hour and a half, and then strain it through a tammy (with considerable pressure, to extract all the goodness) into a basin, to be kept for such purposes as will be here- after directed. White Roux, or Thickening for Sauces Take some fresh butter,—say four ounces,—put it into a stew-pan on a moderate fire to clarify; skim it, and then pour it off into a thick-bottomed stew-pan, care being taken that none of the scum beTHE MODERN COOK 53 allowed to mix with the butter; add four ounces of sifted flour, and work it with a wooden spoon. The roux should then be placed on a moderate fire, and continually stirred with the spoon until it becomes somewhat softer; then take the spoon out, wipe the sides of the stew-pan, put the lid on it, and place it in a moderately heated oven, and there let it remain for about half an hour, taking care to stir it every ten minutes, and to watch it closely in order to prevent the possibility of its getting burnt or coloured, an accident which would render it useless for white sauce. At the expiration of the time above named, or before, if the roux be sufficiently done (which may be easily ascertained by its becoming thinner), it should be taken out of the oven and put aside until wanted for use. This roux is used for thickening Veloute or white sauce. Brown Roux, or Thickening for Brown Sauce This is made exactly in the same way as the white roux, with the exception that it should remain longer in the oven, to allow it to acquire a fawn or buff colour, before it is taken out. When the roux is considered to be done, a shalot may be thrown in, in order to diminish the action of the heat of the copper stew-pan on its contents, and for the purpose of imparting flavour to it. This roux is used to thicken Espagnole or brown sauce. QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL Bread Panada for Quenelles Take a quarter of a pound of the crumb of two new French rolls and steep it in tepid water for ten minutes, then put it into a napkin and wring it tightly in order to remove the water from the bread. Put the crumb into a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and a pint of white stock or milk. Put these on the fire, con- tinuing to stir the panada the whole time with a wooden spoon until it assumes the appearance of paste, and no longer adheres to the bottom of the stew-pan; then add a yolk of egg, and turn it out on a plate, smooth it over the surface with the blade of a knife, and, having covered it with a round piece of buttered paper, place it in the larder until required for use. Pate a Choux Panada To half a pint of white chicken stock add one ounce of fresh butter and a little salt; put the stew-pan containing these on the fire; as soon as it begins to simmer, mix in with the afore-mentioned ingredients two ounces of sifted flour, and by continuing to stir this batter on the fire for five minutes, it will become a delicately firm paste, which must be worked over the fire until it freely leaves the sides of the pan. Then take a yolk of egg and quickly mix into the batter; put it on a plate, cover it with a buttered paper, and keep it in the cool till wanted for use. This kind of panada is preferred by some cooks to bread panada,QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL 59 being considered by them more delicate and less liable to produce fermentation in warm weather; however, bread panada has the advantage of not collapsing, as is the case with the pate h. choux panada, if prepared some time before the quenelle in which it is used be eaten. Preparation of Calf’s Udder The udder is an elongated piece of fat-looking substance attached to the inner part of a leg of veal. It is easily separated from the meat by a knife, and should then be bound round with twine in the shape of a sausage, so as to prevent it from falling to pieces on taking it out of the stock-pot; the udder so tied up is then put into the stock-pot to boil. Having allowed the dressed udder time to cool and get firm, either on the ice or otherwise, pare off the outside with a knife, cut it into small pieces, and pound it in a mortar; then rub it through a wire-sieve with a wooden spoon, and put it on a plate upon the ice to cool, in order that it may be quite firm when required for use. Note.—The two foregoing preparations being the basis of a great variety of force-meats, it is essential that they should be well under- stood before attempting the following more complicated amalga- mations. It should also be observed that all meat and fish intended for quenelles must be forced through a wire-sieve by rubbing it vigorously with the back of a wooden spoon, and then be kept on ice till used. Quenelle of Fowl Take of panada and prepared udder, or fresh butter, one ounce of each; to these add eight ounces of prepared fillets of chicken, as directed above, and pound all three together in a mortar; when they are well mixed, add salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, a little pepper, and one egg; pound the whole together till thoroughly mixed, then add a tablespoonful of Bechamel or Supreme sauce. Pound the whole thoroughly and quickly, and after having taken the force-meat out of the mortar and put it into a kitchen basin, keep it in a cool place until wanted for use. Previous to taking the quenelle up out of the mortar, its consist- ency should be thus ascertained. Take a piece of the force-meat the size of a large nut, roll it with a little flour into the form of a round ball, put it into a small stew-pan half full of boiling water; place it by the side of the fire to simmer for three minutes, after which take it out and cut it in halves; taste it in order to ascertain if it be correctly seasoned, and see that when cut asunder the inner parts present a smooth, light, compact surface. Quenelle of Fillets of Grouse, Pheasant, or Partridge; Quenelle of Rabbit or Hare The process for making these is precisely similar to the foregoing, substituting, of course, the respective sort of game required for fowl. It requires, however, the addition of a tablespoonful of strongTHE MODERN COOK 6o essence of game and mushrooms and a little Allemande sauce, which not only imparts a richer flavour to the quenelle, but also renders it smoother. Quenelle of Fillets of Small Birds Take the fillets of small birds (as quails, snipes, larks, plovers, and dottrel) as are likely to weigh about half a pound. Prepare them just as directed in the process for making quenelle of fowl—adding a little glaze made from their carcases and reduced with a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce. Quenelle of Whiting- Fillet one large whiting, after having previously skinned it; pound in a mortar, and force through a wire-sieve with a wooden spoon. To this substance add two ounces of bread panada and fresh butter; pound these effectually, so as to mix them well together; add one whole egg, and the yolks of two others gradually ; season with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Mix well by pounding the quenelle vigorously, and then put it into a basin for use as required. Quenelle of every sort of delicate fish is prepared in a similar manner to the above. Note.—A little cream may, if liked, be added to quenelle mixture. Quenelle of Lobster Take half a pound of lobster meat, cut this into thin slices, and pound it thoroughly with one ounce of fresh butter; force it through a wire-sieve with a wooden spoon, and add two-thirds of its quantity of panada, and a similar proportion of fresh butter. Pound these well together, adding at intervals one egg and a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce, a little cayenne pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; mix well together by pounding, and then put the quenelle into a basin for use. Force=Meat of Liver and Ham, for Raised Pies Take half a pound of calfs liver, or three or four fat livers of any kind of poultry, if to be obtained. If calf’s liver be used, cut it into rather small square pieces, and, if time permit, steep them well in cold water in order to extract the blood, so that the force-meat may be whiter. Take the pieces of liver out of the water, and place them upon a clean cloth to drain the water from them. Meanwhile, cut a quarter of a pound of fat ham or bacon into square pieces, put them into a saute-pan on a brisk fire to fry, after which add the pieces of liver, and fry the whole to a light-brown colour; season with cayenne pepper and salt, and a little prepared aromatic spice (see p. 391), two or three chopped mushrooms, a little parsley, and ■one shalot. After this take the pieces of liver and ham out of the pan, lay them on a chopping-board, and chop them finely ; then put them into a mortar with the remaining contents of the pan; pound the whole thoroughly, and rub it through a wire-sieve on to an earthenware dish. This kind of force-meat, or farce, is an excellent ingredient for making raised pies.QUENELLE FORCE-MEATS IN GENERAL 61 Game Force-Meat, or Farce To one pound of boned game, of the kind intended to be pre- served, add half a pound of fat bacon or ham, and half a pound of fat livers (or, failing these, calf’s liver); cut the whole into small square pieces, and proceed as follows :—First, fry the pieces of bacon in a large saute-pan, and when they become slightly browned, throw in the game and livers ; season with pepper and salt, aromatic spices, chopped mushrooms, and one or two shalots; fry the whole till the game is thoroughly done. Then chop and pound all these ingredients together; and afterwards rub them through a wire-sieve, after which put the farce into a clean pan, and keep it covered over with buttered paper. It should be used the same day that it is made, for the sooner preserves are out of hand the better. The use of this farce will be shown in its proper place. Note.—When about to preserve game in earthen pans for the spring or summer season, great care should be taken in selecting fresh game for that purpose, as when preserves are made with stale game the preparation will most likely not bear keeping so as to be eatable when opened for use. Liver Farce for Gratins, etc. If the farce be required for turbans of fillets of fowls or rabbits, or pat^s-chauds of game or small birds, it should be made of fat livers or leg of veal, and prepared in exactly the same manner as directed for making farce of livers for game pies—excepting that, to finish it for use, it is necessary to add one-third the quantity of well-made bread panada, and an equal proportion of raw eggs to bind it and give it body. In order to ascertain whether this farce is perfect, roll a small quantity in a little flour on a plate, then put it on a small baking- sheet in the oven for five minutes; when done through, cut it asunder, and if it preserves its shape and remains firm to the touch, it may be used with safety; but if it appears to shrink or melt in the oven, then a little more panada and another egg must be added, which will render it more compact. Godiveaux in General To half a pound of either veal, fillets of fowls, pheasants, partridges, etc., chopped exceedingly fine and smooth to the touch, add half a pound of beef suet, two whole eggs, three ounces of bread soaked in water and well wrung in a napkin, grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Chop these ingredients until thoroughly mixed, then pound them in a mortar until the whole presents the appearance of a compact body. Then place the substance upon a plate, cover it with buttered paper, and set it upon ice to cool for a couple of hours. After the godiveau has been cooled, put it in the mortar again and pound it with considerable force, taking care to mix in with it by degrees about a gill of clean iced water. This last process will causeTHE MODERN COOK 62 it to resemble somewhat the quenelle of fowl. Put it away in a basin in a cool place till wanted for use. Godiveau of any kind, when well made, is very delicious eating, and it is not so expensive to make as quenelle. It is used for garnish- ing vol-au-vents, pates-chauds, tourtes a la ciboulette, and also for stuffing calves’ heads, as a substitute for quenelle force-meat. CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL Clear Spring1 Soup Take two or three carrots and as many turnips scraped and washed, scoop them out into the form of small olives or peas with a vegetable scoop of either shape; add the white part of a small head of celery, half-a-dozen small onions, and one head of firm white cauliflower cut into small flowerets. Blanch or parboil the foregoing in boiling water for three minutes, strain them on a sieve, and then throw them into two quarts of bright consomme of fowl; let the whole boil gently for half an hour by the side of the stove-fire; then add the white leaves of half a small cabbage-lettuce (previously stamped out with a round cutter the size of a shilling), a handful of sorrel-leaves snipped or cut like the lettuces, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, and a small piece of sugar; let these continue to boil gently until done. When about to send the soup to table, put into the tureen a gill of young green peas, an equal quantity of asparagus- heads boiled green, and a handful of small croutons k la duchesse. Before sending the soup to table taste it to ascertain whether it is sufficiently seasoned. Duchess Crust :—Cut the crust off a rasped French roll into strips; stamp or cut out these with a round tin or steel cutter into small pellets about the size of a shilling, and dry them in the oven to be ready for use. Consomme a la Vertpre This is prepared in the same manner as for spring soup, except that the crotltons k la duchesse are omitted, and in their stead a puree of green spinach, in sufficient quantity to thicken and colour the soup, should be added. Consomme Jardiniere Prepare the same vegetables as for spring soup, boil them in a strong consomnui, and just before sending the soup to table add to it a gill of puree of green peas. Consommd Julienne Take two red carrots, one turnip, and the white parts of one stick of leeks, one stick of celery, and one onion. Cut all these vegetables into fine shreds an inch long. Put them into a convenient-sized stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and a pinch of castor sugar. Simmer these vegetables on a slow fire, taking care they doCONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 63 not burn ; when they become slightly brown, add two quarts of veal stock or light-coloured consomme; let the soup boil, skim all the butter off as it rises to the surface, and when the vegetables are done, throw in the leaves of half a small cabbage-lettuce and a handful of sorrel, shred like the carrots, etc.; add a few leaves of tarragon and chervil; boil the whole for ten minutes longer, taste the soup in order to ascertain whether the seasoning is correct, and serve. Consomme Chiffonade Take a breast of spring chicken and boil in two quarts of good white consomme. When done and cooled, cut into small pieces, removing the skin; put these into a well-tinned stew-pan, together with the stock they were boiled in, which should be clarified if it is not sufficiently bright. Set the stew-pan on the stove-fire to boil, and then add the white leaves of a small cabbage-lettuce, a small handful of sorrel, a little tarragon and chervil, and one head of celery shred fine. See that the soup is perfectly seasoned and of delicate flavour, and send to table. Consomme Nivernaise Take two or three turnips, cut them into the form of small cloves of garlic, fry them in two ounces of butter and a little sugar in a stew- pan over the fire to give them a light-brown colour, then drain them upon a sieve and put them into a sauce-pan. Scoop out the red part of two large-sized red carrots, blanch or parboil these for ten minutes, and, when strained, add them to the turnips ; then pour upon the vegetables two quarts of strong bright consomme, and set the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire until the vegetables are thoroughly done, taking care to skim off the butter as it rises to the surface. Ten minutes before dinner-time throw into the soup, while boiling, one dozen small Brussels sprouts that have been previously parboiled; and just before sending this soup to table, add to it about one dozen very small quenelles of pheasant. Consomme Xavier Mix with two ounces of sifted flour a gill of double cream, two ounces of fresh butter, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a little mignonette pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. When these ingredients have been thoroughly mixed together with a wooden spoon, put the stew-pan containing them on the fire—stirring it quickly and continually until it begins to thicken, when it should be well worked with the spoon for about five minutes. By this time the batter will have assumed the appearance of a firm, compact paste ; one whole egg should then be worked into it; then add a table- spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. When this paste is so far ready, make up two half-sheets of paper in the shape of a funnel, with a hole at the point a quarter of an inch in diameter, and fasten them with a pin. Into each of these papers or forcers put as much of the paste as will nearly fill it; close the large end in the same way as you would a paper of brown sugar, and with gentle pressure force the paste out at the pointed extremity onTHE MODERN COOK 64 to a large stew-pan cover (previously buttered) in the shape of large peas : this is done with a sudden jerk of the wrist. When the stew- pan lid is covered with these fragments of paste—-which, however, must not be close enough to touch each other—prepare some boiling consomme in a stew-pan over the fire, and shake off the peas into it (which will be easily effected by just passing the lid containing the fragments of paste over the fire) in order to detach them and thus facilitate their slipping into the broth. Let these boil very gently for five minutes; strain them on a sieve and then throw them into two quarts of strong bright consomme of fowl or game prepared for the purpose; allow them to boil again gently for five minutes; add a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, and let these boil a short time previously to serving up the soup. Send some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round at table simultaneously with this soup. Consomme a la Dauphine Take a gill of strong consomme of fowl and pour it gradually into a stew-pan containing three yolks of eggs beaten up with a little salt, nutmeg, and pepper; when the egg is well mixed with the consomme, strain it through a sieve into a round plain mould, which should be previously buttered carefully for that purpose. Put the mould holding the preparation into a large stew-pan containing water to the depth of about an inch, and cover the stew-pan with the lid ; let the water in it simmer—or gently boil—on the corner of the fire, so as to produce sufficient steam to set the custard. When this is done, take it out of the water; and after having allowed it time to cool, cut it into shapes resembling thick wafers, which put into two quarts of strong consomme of fowl, together with half a pint of green asparagus-heads previously boiled for that purpose, a small piece of sugar, and a few tarragon leaves. Allow the soup to boil very gently by the side of the fire for a few minutes, and then serve. Consomme a la Princesse Take two ounces of pearl barley; wash and blanch it, and put it to boil in one pint of bright consomme of fowl. When the barley is sufficiently done, put it into the soup tureen with the breast of a spring chicken (previously roasted and cut up for the purpose); to these add two quarts of chicken consommd; and after having tested the seasoning of the soup, send to table. Consomme a la Tivoli This is a rich consomme made with beef stock and fortified with chicken essence, clarified in the usual manner and seasoned, to which is added a garnish composed of very small chicken farce quenelles coloured with spinach greening, each farced with a green pea; also the red part of finely-shredded cooked spring carrots and small strips of smoked ox-tongue. Serve the soup with thinly-cut slices of milk bread, baked to a fawny colour in a moderate oven. The latter must be served hot in a folded serviette.CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 65 Consomme a la Napoleon 2 quarts consomme, 6 oz. ravioli paste (see p. 103), 1 oz. foie-gras trimmings, 2 oz. cold chicken, veal, or rabbit, 1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce, 1 saltspoonful chopped lemon rind, | teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Roll out the paste very thinly, stamp out some rounds with ij-inch cutter. Chop up the meat (freed from skin and gristle), lemon rind, and foie-gras very finely; mix with the parsley. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with the sauce, and mix well. Wet the edges of the rounds of paste, put rather more than half a teaspoonful in the centre of each ; close up by pressing the edges well together, giving them the shape of triangular cocked hats. This done, drop them into boiling salted water or white stock ; boil from ten to fifteen minutes, drain, and put in a soup tureen; pour into this the consomme (previously heated), and serve. Consomme a la Nemours 2 quarts good stock (clarified), 1 oz. crushed tapioca, 2 carrots, \ gill Bechamel sauce, 3 eggs, \ oz. butter, seasoning. Clarify the stock in the usual manner and strain it carefully. Add the tapioca (previously soaked in water) when boiling, cook gently for fifteen minutes, and season to taste. Wash the carrots, and scrape finely the red part into a stew-pan containing the butter. Cook it while stirring for five minutes, add the white sauce (Bdchamel) and a little stock, and simmer till tender, then rub through a fine sieve. Incorporate the eggs, well beaten, season to taste, strain into a buttered mould, and poach till firm. Unmould, cut into neat cubes or diamond shapes, and put into the prepared consommA Reheat, and serve. Consomme a la Nesselrode 2 quarts consomme, 1 doz. chestnuts, 3 yolks of eggs, | gill game stock, 1 glass Madeira wine, pepper and salt. Skin the chestnuts, and boil in water or milk until tender; rub through a sieve, mix with the yolk of egg and game stock, season with pepper and salt, and fill into a number of well-buttered olive- shaped moulds; poach them in the oven for ten minutes, let them cool a little, then turn out and place them in a soup tureen; add the wine to the consomme, season to taste, let it boil for a few minutes, and pour gently into the tureen. It is then ready for serving. Consomme a la Richelieu 2 quarts game consomm£, 2 small fillets of cooked game, 2 carrots (small), 1 oz. tapioca de Bresil, 1 gill royal custard cut into cubes, seasoning. Remove the skin from the fillets of cooked game, and cut the meat into fine shreds or Julienne strips. Scoop out some little ball shapes from the carrots, and cook them in salted water till tender. Cook the tapioca in boiling water or consomme for about fifteen F66 THE MODERN COOK minutes, then add it to the consomme of game. Next add the cooked carrots, and let the consomme simmer gently for about ten minutes. Skim, and season to taste. Put the prepared and cut cubes of custard in a soup tureen, pour over the consomme, and serve. Consomme Portugaise 2 quarts consomme, 3-4 ripe tomatoes, 18 French plums, 2 small leeks, ^ oz. butter, a pinch of cayenne. Wash the plums, put them in cold water with a little salt; bring to the boil, strain, and rinse in cold water; return to the stew-pan in which they were blanched, with sufficient clear stock to well cover, and cook slowly till tender. Wash and clean the leeks, cut into shreds or Julienne-shaped strips about an inch long, wash well in cold water, drain, and cook a few minutes with the butter; pour in some clarified stock or consomme, and cook slowly till tender. Carefully remove all the fat, pour over the consomme, and let simmer for a few minutes. Put the plums in a soup tureen, add a pinch of cayenne, pour in the consomme, and serve with some sippets of toasted bread. Consomme Metternich 2 quarts consomme (i.e. clarified beef broth), 1 small chicken or fowl, 4 small ripe tomatoes, 1 heaped-up tablespoonful arrowroot, 1 glass sherry or Marsala, seasoning. Roast the chicken or fowl for ten minutes in a hot oven, and baste frequently, to ensure it being a nice golden brown. Take up and place it in the consomme with two tomatoes previously sliced. Simmer very gently for about one hour. Take out the fowl and place it in a dish to cool. Boil up the consomme again, remove the scum and fat, and strain it into another stew-pan. Blanch the remaining two tomatoes, peel them, and cut into dice; remove the seeds, and place the dice into the soup. Mix the sherry and arrow- root to a smooth paste and stir into the soup. Simmer for another ten minutes. Take the fillet from the fowl or chicken, free it from skin, and cut into small dice ; put this into the soup, season it to taste with salt and pepper, boil up again, skim, and serve. The remains of the chicken can be utilised for some other purpose. Consomme Mikado 2 quarts consomme flavoured with curry, 4 oz. lean veal, 2 oz. lean mutton, the breast of a small chicken, 2 oz. butter, £ onion, a bouquet garni, 2 tablespoonfuls cooked rice, pepper and salt. The curry to flavour the soup should be added to the stock before it is clarified. Cut the meat into even-sized small pieces, mince the onion finely. Put the butter in a stew-pan; when melted, add the bouquet of herbs and minced onion, cook a little, then add the pieces of meat; let it brown a little, put in the clear soup, let it come to a boil, skimming it thoroughly before it boils. Simmer gently for a good half-hour, season with pepper and salt, put in the boiled rice, take out the bouquet, and pour the soup into a hot tureen ready for serving.CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 67 Consomme Mulligatawny (Clear) 2 quarts clear stock, the legs of a raw fowl, 1 oz. raw ham, ^ small onion, 1 teaspoonful curry powder (mild), 3 tablespoonfuls boiled rice, 1 oz. butter, 1 white of egg. Cut the legs of fowl into pieces, fry in butter until brown, add the curry powder and fry a little, pour off the fat, moisten with the stock, add the onion and raw ham cut into slices, boil up and skim, simmer for twenty minutes, and strain. When cold, clarify the white of egg, add the boiled rice and a handful of chicken meat cut into dice, heat up, and serve. Consomme a la Nantaise Proceed the same as for consomm£ k la Princesse, adding a handful of cooked green peas in place of the pearl barley. Chicken Quenelles for Consomme Mould one dozen or more of very small quenelles of fowl in the following manner -.—Take up a teaspoonful 0/ chicken force-meat, smooth it over with the blade of a small knife, which must be occa- sionally dipped in hot water in order to prevent the quenelle from sticking to it; and with another teaspoon dipped in hot water, scoop out the quenelle from the filled teaspoon, and drop it gently on the bottom of a buttered saute-pan. When this part of the operation is completed, a stew-pan cover is held with the left hand in a slanting direction towards the inner part of the edge of the saut^-pan—with the other hand sufficient boiling water should be poured to poach the quenelles ; then set the saute-pan by the side of the fire to simmer for about ten minutes, when the quenelles will be done. Take them out and lay them upon a clean cloth to drain, after which place them in the soup tureen, and having poured thereon two or three pints of bright consomme of fowl, send to table. Clear Vermicelli Soup Take one ounce of vermicelli, break it small, and blanch it by allowing it to boil three minutes in water; drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a stew-pan with three pints of strong bright consomme of fowl or game, or veal stock, according to taste or circumstances. After allowing the soup thus prepared to boil up on the fire, skim the froth from the surface and set it to continue boiling gently on the corner of the stove till the vermicelli be sufficiently done. Then pour the soup into the tureen, and send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, separately, to be handed round to the guests simultaneously with the soup. This should be observed as a general rule in serving up all soups containing Italian pastes in any form. Clear Macaroni Soup Boil two ounces of Naples macaroni in a quart of water, an ounce of fresh butter, a little salt, and mignonette pepper. When the macaroni is done, which will take about half an hour, drain it on a sieve, wash it in clear water, and then drain it upon a napkin, that it68 THE MODERN COOK may be cut into pieces an inch long. Then put it into a sauce-pan with two quarts of veal stock, or consomme of fowl or of game, accord- ing to circumstances ; let it boil ten minutes longer, and serve. Italian Paste Soup Take two ounces of Italian paste, blanch or parboil it first, and afterwards boil it in two quarts of bright strong consomme, as directed for vermicelli soup, and send to table. Lasagnes Soup Lasagnes are a kind of Italian paste resembling ribbons, and must be treated in exactly the same way as when using macaroni for soup, excepting that they do not require so much boiling. Consomme with Rice Take two ounces of Carolina rice well picked and washed, blanch or parboil it for ten minutes, drain the water off; and after adding two quarts of good clear consomme, boil it gently by the side of the fire till the grains of the rice begin to feather or separate, when it will be ready to send to table. Observe that broths and consommes should be always stronger when used for soups containing Italian pastes of any kind, rice, or barley, as these farinaceous substances decrease the flavour and apparent strength of soups, and render them less acceptable to the palate of the epicure—unless counteracted by increasing the strength of the consomme. Clear Rice Soup with Asparagus Points This soup is prepared in the same way as the foregoing—with the addition of a gill of asparagus points boiled green and thrown into the soup just before sending to table. Chicken and Rice Soup Truss, boil, and cut into small pieces the breast of a spring chicken; the skin should be removed, and the pieces neatly trimmed and placed in the soup tureen, together with two quarts of clear rice soup, Avhich should be made with chicken broth or consomme of a light colour. The seasoning of this soup must be light. Cock = a=Leekie Soup Take one small fowl, which truss, boil, and cut up as for the foregoing soup. Add two quarts of veal stock, and in this boil (after having first parboiled them in water) the white part of a small bundle of leeks cut into lengths of about an inch, and these again cut lengthways into four. When the leeks have been boiled thoroughly soft in the broth, add the pieces of fowl; and after allowing the whole to boil ten minutes longer, send to table. Note.—This kind of soup is objected to by many who dislike the flavour of leeks j it is considered, however, to be a fine restorative, and is especially recommended to the notice of sportsmen, after a hard day’s riding with the hounds, or fagging over the moors.CONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 69 Scotch Broth Take two pounds of scrag end of neck of fresh mutton, trim it the same as for cutlets; take the scrag and trimmings, with two carrots, two turnips, one small head of celery, two onions, a bunch of parsley, and a sprig of thyme, and with these make some mutton broth—filling up with two quarts of either broth from the common stock-pot, or with water. While the mutton broth is boiling, cut up the neck of mutton, previously trimmed for the purpose, into chops, which should have the superfluous skin and fat pared away, and place them in a stew-pan, together with the red or outer part of two carrots, two turnips, two leeks, one onion, and a small head of celery —the whole of these to be cut in the form of very small dice ; add one ounce of Scotch barley previously washed and parboiled, and then pour on to the whole the broth made from the scrag, etc., when strained and the fat removed. Allow the soup thus far prepared to boil gently until the chops and the vegetables be thoroughly done. Five minutes before sending the soup to table throw into it a table- spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Be sparing in the use of salt. Hodge=Podge1 Make the mutton broth as shown in the preceding directions, and in addition to its contents add a gill of green peas (either marrow-fats or Prussian-blues). Allow the soup to boil gently until the ingredients be thoroughly done, then mix in with them a gill of puree of green spinach and parsley; taste to ascertain that the seasoning is correct, and serve. Veal and Rice Soup Take a pound of knuckle of fresh veal, cut it into pieces—sawing the bones through. Place the pieces in a small stock-pot with two calf’s feet, a partridge (an old one will do) that has been roasted for a quarter of an hour; to these add two quarts of common stock or water. Put the soup on the fire to boil, skim it well, garnish it with one carrot, one turnip, an onion in which has been inserted four cloves, and one stick of celery; also a little salt and a few pepper- corns. Having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for about three hours, take up the partridge, the calf’s feet, and also the glutinous pieces of veal, which place on a dish to cool in the larder. Then pass the broth through a napkin into a stew-pan, and after having taken off every particle of fat, add to it two ounces of Carolina rice, which must be blanched or parboiled for the purpose. Allow the rice to boil gently in the broth till it is nearly done, then cut the fillets of partridge into pieces about an inch in length and a quarter of an inch wide, take the glutinous pieces of the veal and the inner tendons of the calf’s feet, and cut these also in pieces in a similar manner to the partridge; put the whole into the broth with the rice, and after boiling them together for five minutes, send to table. 1 From the French Hochc-pot.THE MODERN COOK 7° This kind of soup may be also finished with the addition of a gill of green peas, which must be boiled a few minutes before serving up the soup, and placed in the tureen previously to pouring in the soup. Asparagus points may be used for the same purpose. Consomme Brunoise Take two carrots, one turnip, one small head of celery, one leek, and one onion; cut them into small dice and fry them in a stew-pan, over a slow fire, with an ounce of fresh butter, a little pounded sugar, and a sprinkling of salt. When the vegetables have acquired a light-brown colour, pour on to them two quarts of good strong bright consomme or veal stock, and put the soup on the fire to boil; skim it well, and then remove it to the side, there to continue gently boiling until the vegetables are thoroughly done. Add half a gill of green peas, a small handful of French beans (cut into the form of diamonds), and half a gill of asparagus points (the whole having been previously boiled green for the purpose), also a few duchess’ crusts (see p. 62); and having tested the flavour and seasoning of the soup, send to table. Lettuce and Whole=Pea Soup Pick, wash, and blanch two or three white-heart cabbage-lettuces: cut them open, and spread them on a clean napkin ; season them with mignonette pepper and salt, then put two together, face to face, and proceed to tie them up with twine. Cover the bottom of a stew-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, and place the lettuces thereon; pour upon them one pint of broth from the boiling stock-pot, over which lay a round of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan, start them to boil on the fire, and then place them at the side to simmer gently for about an hour; after which drain the lettuces on a clean napkin, untie them, and after having cut them into inch lengths, lay them in the soup-tureen, together with a gill of young green peas boiled for the purpose, and a small pinch of mignonette pepper. Take every particle of fat off the broth in which the lettuces have been braised, and add it to the lettuces and peas already in the tureen, over which pour three pints of bright strong consomme of fowl; ascertain that the soup is seasoned correctly, and having thrown in a handful of duchess’ crusts, send to table. Flemish Consomme Take two carrots, two turnips, and one small cucumber, and with a vegetable scoop cut them out into the shape of olives or pears. To the foregoing add the white parts of a small head of celery and one leek, which must be cut into thick shreds half an inch long. Blanch or parboil these for five minutes; drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a sauce-pan capable of containing three quarts; add two quarts of good consomm^, and set the squp on the fire to boil, skim it, and place it by the side to boil gently until the vegetables are sufficiently done. While the soup is boiling, blanch the following vegetables, which, when done, put into the soup with the others : aCONSOMMES AND CLEAR SOUPS IN GENERAL 71 handful of Brussels sprouts, half a gill of young peas, a few French beans cut small, and a handful of asparagus heads. Add a pinch of mignonette pepper; allow the soup to boil three minutes longer, and having placed some duchess’ crusts in the tureen, pour the soup upon them and serve. Sportsman’s Clear Soup With two teaspoons mould about one dozen very small quenelles of any sort of game; poach these in broth, and then drain them on a clean napkin, and afterwards put them into a stew-pan containing two quarts of strong bright consomme of game; place the soup on the fire, and allow it to boil very gently by the side for a few minutes ; ascertain that the seasoning is correct, and send to table. This soup takes its special title from the species of game of which it may chance to be made. As, for instance, Sportsman’s Clear Soup of Pheasant, of Partridge, of Hare, etc., etc. Deslignac or Imperial Consomme Put three eggs into a basin with a little grated nutmeg and salt; beat them together, mixing therewith a gill of strong consommt: of fowl or game; strain this preparation through a hair sieve into a plain mould, which has been buttered for the purpose. Steam this in the same way as you would any other custard, and, when done, put it to cool in the larder. Cut the custard thus prepared into fanciful shapes, and having placed them in the tureen, pour on gently three pints of boiling, strong, bright consomm^, of the same kind that is used to mix the custard with. Consomme Paysanne This is to be prepared in exactly the same manner as the Flemish soup, except that, instead of the Brussels sprouts, the following must be used : the leaves of half a small cabbage cut into pieces the size and shape of a shilling, the heart of a lettuce slit into thick shreds, a few leaves of sorrel, tarragon, and chervil. After these have been boiled with the other vegetables for ten minutes, add to them one dozen small scallops of braised beef; season with a little mignonette pepper, and serve. Bread Soup a la Jardiniere Rasp four or five small rolls, and take the crumb out carefully without disturbing the shape of the rolls. When the crumb is taken out, put the rolls or hollow crusts on a baking-sheet in the oven for the purpose of making them crisp, as well as to give them a light- brown colour. An hour before dinner put the crusts thus prepared into a deep silver dish, and pour over them one pint of consommd of fowl to cover them. Place the dish containing the crusts on a trivet over a moderate fire, and there allow the crusts to become gratinated, that is to say, to acquire, by means of boiling down, a concentration of flavour, and that appearance of crispness which is as alluring to theTHE MODERN COOK 72 eye as it is savoury to the palate. When the consommt: is perfectly absorbed by the crusts, put them in the oven in order to increase their crispness, but be extremely careful that they do not burn. Just before sending to table pour on to the crusts thus prepared a Jardiniere, composed of small pipe-like pieces of carrots, turnips, celery, leeks, a few small button onions, green peas, French beans, asparagus heads, and also a few flowerets of white cauliflower. Only a small quantity of consomme should be put with the crusts and Jardinihre, as it is usual to serve up a tureen of clear consomme separately, from which the guests are served; a small ladleful of the gratinated crusts, etc., should be first put into the soup-plate, and some of the consomme added afterwards. Bread Soup a la Princesse Prepare the same number of rolls according to the preceding instructions. A few minutes before dinner add to the crusts one dozen small quenelles of chicken rolled into the shape of pieces of macaroni an inch long, half a gill of asparagus heads, and half a pint of boiling consomme. Send up two quarts of consomme in a soup-tureen, and serve as described in the last-mentioned soup. Soup of Gratinated Crusts a la Royale Prepare the crusts as before stated, adding one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and a little mignonette pepper. Just before dinner- time lay upon the crusts (gratinated in the usual way) some shapes of chicken custard, described in the preparation of Deslignac soup (see p. 71), and serve up according to the preceding detail. Consomme a la Ferneuse Prepare the crusts as before described, cut one or two turnips into small fancy shapes, fry them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little salt over a slow fire until they have gradually acquired a light-brown colour; then add half a pint of consomm£, and let them simmer gently by the side of the stove- fire until thoroughly done. When about to send the soup to table, pour the turnips thus prepared on to the gratinated crusts, and to them add a gill of young peas boiled green, and four or six white button onions boiled in broth. Serve as before stated. Consomme a la Beaujon Prepare the crusts as before, and when they are gratinated add a gill of reduced pur^e of young carrots; put these into the oven for ten minutes, and just before sending to table, pour over the crusts thus prepared a gill of large heads of asparagus and some shreds of celery kept ready boiled in broth for the purpose, and serve with the consomme in a tureen separately.VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS 73 VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS Bretonne Soup Peel and chop finely three Spanish onions, put them in a stew-pan containing three ounces of melted butter, and fry the onions to a light- brown colour. Stir in one ounce of oatmeal and three ounces of haricot beans (previously washed and soaked), mix well and add six pints of water or stock ; boil up, skim, and cook for three-quarters of an hour, stirring frequently. Pass the soup through a fine sieve, return to the stew-pan and heat up again; season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, and add half a gill of cream a few minutes before serving. Puree of Peas a I’Anglaise Take one pint of yellow split peas, wash them several times in water, drain them, and put them into a small stock-pot with one ounce of raw ham, one small stick of celery, one carrot, and an onion with four cloves stuck in it. Add three pints of common stock, let the soup boil, skim it well, and then set it by the side of the fire to boil gently for between two and three hours. The peas having then become entirely dissolved, pass them through a tammy-cloth with the aid of two wooden spoons, to be used in the following manner :— Spread the tammy-cloth over a large dish, pour the puree, or part at a time, into the hollow thus formed ; let two persons take hold firmly of each end of the tammy-cloth with the left hand, so as carefully to secure the puree against flowing over; with the right hand they should work the edge of the spoon, the bowls being back to back, in the cloth, in regular time and with some force until the whole of the puree is rubbed through : it will be, however, necessary to scrape off with the back of a knife any portion that may adhere to the cloth. A sieve will also answer the same purpose. When this is done, remove the puree from the dish into a sauce-pan ; add half a pint of consomme, carefully stirring the pur^e on the fire until it begins to boil, then remove it to the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling until it has clarified itself by throwing up all the scum, which should be removed as it rises to the surface. Ascertain whether there is enough seasoning, and send to table with some dried and sifted mint in a plate; and in another plate serve some Conde crusts, prepared as follows :— Conde Crusts for Soups Take a piece of stale bread, pare away the crust, and then cut the crumb into very small square dice; fry these in fresh butter till they become slightly browned, then drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them on a sheet of paper, moving them about for a short time that the butter may be absorbed. Keep these crofttons in a dry place until wanted. Just before dinner-time they should be put inside the oven for a few minutes.THE MODERN COOK 74 Puree of Green Split Peas Follow the foregoing instructions, taking care, however, to sub- stitute green split peas for yellow. When the puree is ready, in order to give it as much as possible the appearance of having been made with green peas, mix in with it a few drops of extract of spinach,1 adding one ounce of butter and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Serve separately some mint in powder, and Conde crusts on plates. Puree of Red Haricot Beans Take one pint of red haricot beans, and having put them to soak overnight, drain off the water on the following morning; put the beans into a sauce-pan with one carrot, one stick of celery, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a knuckle of raw ham; add three pints of good stock, and set the whole on the stove-fire to simmer gently for about three or four hours. Then remove the carrot, celery, onion, and the ham ; drain off the stock from the beans, and pound them in a mortar, after which place them in a stew-pan, add the stock, and then pass the puree through the tammy-cloth or sieve in the usual manner ; it should then be poured into a sauce-pan, and if too thick to clarify, a little stock should be added; stir it over the fire until it boils, and then remove it to the side of the stove to continue gently boiling until it becomes bright: all the scum must be carefully removed while boiling. Finish the soup by adding one ounce of fresh butter and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Conde crusts should be handed round with this soup. Purde of White Haricot Beans is made like the preceding, except that white haricot beans must be substituted for red ; moreover, in finishing this puree, in addition to the butter and sugar, one or two tablespoonfuls of cream should be poured in. Serve with Conde crusts on a plate. Puree of Lentils a la Reine Take half a pint of reddish-brown lentils, prepare them exactly as described for the treatment of red haricot beans in making that puree; finish also in a similar manner, and serve with Conde crusts. Puree of Lentils a la Soubise This is made like the foregoing, but there must be added a purde of one or two large onions, prepared in the following manner:— Slice up the onions, fry them brown in a little butter, adding to them 1 Extract of Spinach is thus prepared : Wash and pound in a mortar a sufficient quantity of spinach for a small dish, until it assumes a pulpy appearance ; turn it out upon a kitchen cloth, the opposite ends of which are to be gathered up and held in the left hand by two persons, who must take care to fold the extremity of the cloth firmly round the handle of a wooden spoon, which will give them a strong purchase, acting as a windlass, and will enable them to wring the cloth so tightly as to squeeze out all the moisture of the spinach. To receive this extract, a stew-pan should be placed ready ; it should be held over the fire until it becomes coagulated, and must be put upon a hair-sieve to drain off any remaining watery particles. Work the spinach-green through the sieve with a spoon, and this will form the extract.I VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS 75 half a pint of broth; having allowed them to simmer gently on the fire until done, pass them in the usual way through a tammy or sieve, and mix the purtie thus obtained with the soup; and when it has cleared itself by boiling, season to taste, and send to table with Conde crusts separately. Puree of Lentils a la Brunoise This soup is recommended to be served when there happens to be in the larder any remaining stock of pur£e of lentils, or Brunoise soup, which can be mixed for this purpose. The Conde crusts should be omitted. Green-Peas Soup Take one and a half pints of green peas, a small bunch of parsley, a sprig or two of green mint, and two or three onions. Having put three and a half pints of common stock on the fire, throw in the above ingredients as soon as it begins to boil; when the peas are thoroughly done, drain them and the other vegetables in a colander, then pound them well together ; the pur£e thus far prepared should be put into a stew-pan together with its own liquor, warm it until it becomes sufficiently dissolved, and then rub it through a tammy-cloth or sieve in the usual manner. Just before sending to table, heat up the soup on a brisk fire, adding one ounce of fresh butter and a small teaspoonful of sugar. Serve Cond£ crusts on a plate.1 Puree of Roots a la Croissy Cut into thin shavings two or three large carrots, and slice very small the same number of turnips, one onion, and one stick of celery ; add a handful of sorrel, and a little chervil and tarragon ; put these into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter on a slow fire, and let it remain there until the vegetables are steamed sufficiently to reduce their quantity to one-half; then add one quart of stock, and put the pan on the fire to boil; skim it, and remove it to the side to boil gently for about an hour and a half; after which proceed to drain the roots from the stock in a colander, pound them in a mortar, and having mixed them with the liquor, warm the puree thus obtained, and rub it through the tammy-cloth or a fine sieve in the usual way. Then put the puree into a sauce-pan (with more stock if needed), and allow it to boil on the fire; after this, place it by the side to clarify itself by gentle boiling; and when it ceases to throw up any scum, finish the soup by adding one ounce of fresh butter and a pinch of sugar, and send to table. Pur^e of Carrots a la Crecy Shave off the red part of about eight or ten large carrots, add one small stick of celery and one onion ; blanch these in boiling water on the fire for ten minutes; drain them in a colander, and afterwards 1 In order to avoid unnecessary repetition, it should be observed that Condd crusts must be served with the succeeding purges of vegetables, except when other- wise directed.7 6 THE MODERN COOK put them into a sauce-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, an ounce of lump sugar, and a little salt. Set the carrots thus prepared on a slow lire to steam, and when they have become considerably reduced in quantity (without burning or acquiring any colour) add to them two quarts of good stock, and let the carrots boil gently for an hour; then drain them—pound and rub them through a tammy or sieve in the usual way, and clarify the puree in the same manner as directed in the preceding recipe. Finish this soup by incorporating with it one ounce of fresh butter and a pinch of castor sugar. Brown Puree of Turnips Slice up about six or eight small turnips, put them into a stew-pan into which one and a half ounces of fresh butter have been previously melted, and add a teaspoonful of pounded sugar. Fry the turnips thus prepared over a rather brisk fire in order to give them a light- brown colour ; then add two quarts of good stock, allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for about three-quarters of an hour; then drain, mash, and proceed to clarify the pur6e in the usual manner. Observe that this kind of puree should not be thick. White Puree of Turnips Slice up six or eight small turnips, put them into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a little grated nutmeg. Put these to simmer on a slow fire, without allowing them to acquire any colour. When the turnips begin to melt, add two quarts of white consomme of fowl; and having set the whole to boil gently on the corner of the stove for about three-quarters of an hour, proceed to drain, mash, and pound the turnips—reserving the stock they have been boiled in to clarify the puree with ; after it has boiled, take off all the scum, and finish the soup by adding (just before sending to table) half a pint of cream and a small pat of fresh butter, which must be thoroughly in- corporated with the soup. Palestine Soup Scrub, wash, peel, and slice up two pounds of Jerusalem arti- chokes ; put them into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, and allow them to simmer gently on a slow fire until they are reduced in quantity and partially melted—taking care that they do not get coloured in the process. Then add two quarts of strong white consomm£ of fowl, and after allowing it to boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, proceed to rub the whole through a tammy-cloth or fine sieve in the usual way, and clarify the puree. Just before sending to table add half a pint of cream, a small piece of glaze, and a pinch of sugar. Puree of Artichokes Trim the bottoms of six or eight fine globe artichokes, and, after taking out the fibrous part inside, cut each into four pieces; put them into a large stew-pan with one and a half ounces of butter andVEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS 77 a pinch of castor sugar,—placing the pieces of artichokes closely beside each other,—and then set them on a slow fire to stew very gently that they may acquire a light-brown colour. Then proceed in every respect to finish this soup in the same manner as directed for Palestine soup. Puree of Endive This soup should be made only when endives are plentiful and of good quality, as in the autumn season when they are full and white. Having trimmed away all the green and outer leaves of eight or ten endives, which should be thoroughly washed and examined in order to pick out any insects, blanch them in boiling water and a little salt for ten minutes; then take them out and throw them into cold water; drain them in a colander, and with both hands press all the water from them. Having prepared the endives, cut off the roots and put them into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, salt, and a little sugar. With a wooden spoon stir the endives over a slow fire for about ten minutes ; then add a pint of good white consomme of fowl; allow this to continue gently simmering on a very slow fire, or in the oven, for an hour, and then pass the endives through a tammy or fine sieve as usual. To the puree thus obtained add one pint of rich consomme of fowl; clarify it according to custom, and just before sending the soup to table, mix with it two tablespoonfuls of cream and a pat of fresh butter, and serve. This soup is recommended for its lightness and cooling effect. Brown Puree of Chestnuts Take two pints of chestnuts (Spanish or Lyons chestnuts are the best), cut off the points or slit them across to prevent them from bursting and flying about; put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, and fry them on a moderate fire until they shed their husks readily; then peel them clean, and put them into a stew-pan with a quart of veal gravy (see p. 52), and set them by the side of the stove to boil gently until they become quite soft to the touch ; drain them from the liquor, and, after having first pounded, and afterwards rubbed them through the tammy or a fine sieve (pouring in the liquor reserved for the purpose to enable the puree to pass quicker), add another pint of veal gravy to clarify the puree—this, after being set to boil on the stove, must be then removed to the side, there to continue gently boiling that it may throw up the butter to the surface, which must be removed with a spoon as it rises, finish by mixing in with the puree a small pat of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a small piece of glaze, and serve up. White Puree of Chestnuts Prepare two pints of chestnuts as for the preceding soup, except that white consommd of fowls or rabbits must be used to boil them in, as well as to finish the puree with. When the pur^e has been clarified as directed above, just before serving it up add two table- spoonfuls of cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar.?8 THE MODERN COOK Puree of Spinach a la Beauvaux Pick, wash, and boil two pounds of spinach; chop it well and pound it into a soft paste, and then put it into a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; stir it on the fire for about ten minutes; then add half a pint of Velout£ sauce and one and a half pints of white consomme of fowl, or any other good white stock at hand; warm the puree on the fire, and rub it through the tammy. Observe that as this puree must not be clarified, it should be kept in the coolest part of the larder until twenty minutes before sending it to table; it must then be made hot by stirring it on the fire, and when just on the point of boiling, mix with it a pat of butter, a small piece of glaze, and a pinch of sugar. Soup a la Faubonne This soup consists of a puree of green peas, made in the usual way, in which must be mixed, previously to serving it up, a gill of young peas boiled green, a small cabbage-lettuce braised and cut into pieces an inch long, and half a cucumber cut up into scallops, and afterwards boiled in consomme. There need not be any crusts sent to table with this soup, nor is it customary to serve crofitons or crusts of any sort for purees that contain a garnish of any kind. Soup a la Ferney Prepare some very small custard shapes (made with consomme); cut a turnip into very small fancy shapes, and fry in a little fresh butter and a pinch of sugar until of a light-brown colour • half a pint of consomme should then be added, and the turnips allowed to finish simmering on a very slow fire, and when done must be set to drain upon a clean napkin, and afterwards put into a soup-tureen with the small custards; to these add one small cucumber cut into scallops and boiled in consomme for the purpose; and, lastly, pour one quart of boiling pur£e of green peas on the above, and serve. The puree in this and similar cases should be kept rather thinner than when intended to be served without a garnish. Soup a la Fabert Take two or three quails, draw, singe, and cut them into quarters, —making two fillets with the pinions left on as for a fricassee, and bone the legs,—leaving only sufficient length of the thigh-bone to give it the shape of a cutlet—rolling the skin round so as to give it a cushion-like appearance. Place these in a stew-pan, the bottom of which has been covered with thin layers of fat bacon ; take care to preserve the shape of the joints, and braise them in a light wine mirepoix (see p. 57). Having thus prepared the quails, when done, drain and trim them, and afterwards place them in the soup-tureen, together with their own stock, which when freed from every particle of fat must then be79 VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS clarified, and also a proportionate quantity of Julienne vegetables— prepared as for the soup bearing that name (see p. 62); and then, over these, pour a quart of puree of green peas nearly boiling, and send to table. Puree of Spring Herbs Take a handful of sorrel, one small cabbage-lettuce, a small handful of chervil, the same proportion of dandelion, and a little balm and burrage. Wash these thoroughly and place them in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, and set the whole on the fire to simmer, quickly stirring them the whole time ; then add a quart of good consomme of veal or fowl 3 allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for half an hour; and just before sending to table finish the soup by mixing in it gradually a liaison 1 of two yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of cream, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of sugar. Put some duchess’ crusts in the soup-tureen, pour the soup thereon, and serve up. Be careful that the soup is not allowed to boil, as in that case the eggs would curdle and render the soup unsightly, if not un- palatable. Puree of Green Peas a la Victoria Cut the cooked breast of one small chicken into small pieces, put them into the soup-tureen with ten or twelve small quenelles of fowl, and then pour on the whole a quart of pur£e of green peas, nearly boiling and prepared in the usual manner, and send to table. Puree of Green Peas a la Princesse Prepare a steamed custard in the manner following :—Take one gill of cream of rice (see p. 82), mix gradually therewith three yolks of eggs, pass this preparation through a tammy into a plain round mould,—previously buttered for the purpose,—and after having steamed it in the same way as you would any other custard, allow it to get cold, turn it out of the mould, and then cut it into small pillar- like shapes an inch long: put these into the soup-tureen with a gill of consomme to prevent them from being clogged together, pour one and a half pints of boiling pur£e of green peas on them, and send to table. Puree of Carrots a la Stanley Having prepared about two quarts of puree of young carrots, when ready to serve up, pour it boiling into the soup-tureen containing half a pint of young peas boiled green, and eighteen very small quenelles of fowl. Crecy Soup with Whole Rice Wash, blanch, and boil in one pint of consommt*, two ounces of Carolina rice; add this to a quart of Cr£cy or carrot soup, either prepared for the occasion, or reserved from the previous day’s dinner. Mix these together gently, and take care not to break the grains of rice, nor to serve it too thick. 1 From the French liaison, a connection or binding.8o THE MODERN COOK Note.—This may be varied by substituting macaroni, vermicelli, or any other kind of Italian paste for the rice. This rule is applicable to purees of vegetables in general. Potato Soup a la Creme Scrub, peel, and slice up about two pounds of good potatoes. Put them into a stew-pan with one large onion and one stick of celery-— also sliced up; add two ounces of fresh butter, a little pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg; set them to simmer on a slow fire, stirring them occasionally, until they are nearly dissolved into a kind of puree. Then add to them three pints of good white consomme, and after having allowed the potatoes to boil gently by the side of a moderate fire for half an hour, pass them through the tammy or a fine sieve, and having removed the puree into a sauce-pan, add, if necessary, a little more consomme, and set the puree on the fire to boil gently by the side of the stove, in order to clarify it in the usual manner required for other purees of vegetables. Just before sending to table, add a gill of cream, a pat of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar. Serve fried bread crusts with this soup. Potato Soup a la Victoria Prepare a puree of potatoes as directed above, and finish it in the same manner. When about to send to table, place one dozen of small quenelles of potatoes (see below) in the soup-tureen, with one gill of large heads of asparagus boiled green, and the same pro- portion of French beans cut into diamond shapes and boiled, and then pour the boiling puree thereon, and serve. Quenelles of Potatoes for Soup Bake three or four large potatoes, cut them into halves, scoop them out on to a wire-sieve, and rub them through it on to a dish with a wooden spoon; then put the potato thus obtained into a stew- pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of double cream, a little grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Stir this on a rather brisk fire until the paste ceases to adhere to the spoon; then remove the potatoes from off the fire, and mix in with them the yolks of one or two eggs, observing that this preparation must be kept of the same consistency as any other quenelles. Then mould the quenelles according to the size and shape required, and poach them in boiling water with a little salt in it. Puree of Asparagus a la Conde Prepare one and a half pints of very young and green asparagus peas, or one large bundle of good sprue asparagus; break off the heads so far down to the foot of the stalks that they will readily snap off without resistance, which will prove them to be young and tender ; throw these into a large pan of cold water, together with a tablespoonful of spinach, the same quantity of parsley, and one onion. Having got these ready, set a large stew-pan on the fire half filled with boiling water, with a tablespoonful of salt in it. First drain the asparagus,VEGETABLE PUREE SOUPS 81 etc., into a colander, and then put the whole into the stew-pan on the fire to boil fast; when they are done, drain them again in a colander, let some cold water run over them for the purpose of retaining their greenness; and when well drained put them into a middle-sized stew-pan with a quart of good Veloute sauce (see p. 3), a teaspoonful of sugar, and a little grated nutmeg and salt. Stir the whole on a brisk fire until it has boiled about three jninutes, when it must be passed through a tammy-cloth or sieve on to a large dish, and, after being removed into a sauce-pan, should be placed on the ice in the larder to keep cool in order that it may the better retain its green colour and delicate flavour. Ten minutes before serving up the soup to table stir it on a brisk fire until it is nearly boiling, remove it from the stove, and, having mixed in with it a pat of butter and a small piece of light-coloured glaze, send to table with a plate of fried bread crofitons. Puree of Asparagus a la St. George Prepare a puree similar to the foregoing ; place in the soup-tureen about eighteen very small quenelles of fowl, and about three ounces of small fillets or shreds of red tongue, cut in the same lengths and thickness as vegetables for Julienne soup ; then with a silver spoon stir the above about gently in the tureen, so as to mix the ingredients with the puree (which must be poured on to them quite hot), and send to table. Bonne Femme Soup Trim and wash three or four cabbage-lettuces, and having also . well washed a handful of sorrel, shred these as you would do if they were intended for Julienne soup. Put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan, and having melted it on the fire, add the lettuces and sorrel, and with a wooden spoon stir them over the fire until they are stewed, which will require about ten minutes; then add three pints of good strong chicken consomme, and having allowed the soup to boil gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour, take it off in order that it may cool a little, and mix in with it a liaison or binding of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a small pat of fresh butter, and a pinch of sugar to rectify the acidity of the sorrel. Stir the soup quickly on the fire in order to set the liaison in it, taking care that it does not curdle; add a small piece of glaze, pour the soup into the tureen upon some duchess’ crusts, and serve. Soup a la Hollandaise Peel two carrots, and an equal number of turnips and one small cucumber; scoop these out into the shape of small olives, and, after blanching them, boil them in three pints of good strong veal stock (seep. 52); when the vegetables are done, remove the soup from the fire, and mix in with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a pat of butter, and a little sugar; set the liaison by stirring the soup over the fire, then pour it into the soup-tureen, containing about half a gill of young peas boiled green, and an equal proportion of French beans cut into diamonds, and serve. G82 THE MODERN COOK SOUPS MADE WITH RICE OR PEARL BARLEY Cream of Rice a la Royale Wash and blanch three ounces of Carolina rice, drain it from the water, and put it into a stew-pan with about two quarts of white consomme of fowls; set it to boil on the stove, and skim it well, after which remove it to the side of the fire to boil gently until the grains of rice are thoroughly done. Then rub the whole through a tammy or fine sieve—moistening with more broth if necessary. When this is done, put the pur^e into a small sauce-pan to be clarified by boiling in the same manner as a sauce; and, just on the point of sending it to table, add one or two tablespoonfuls of cream, and then pour the soup into the tureen containing six or eight small custards of chicken, made thus :— Take part of the breast of a small chicken ; chop and pound with a large tablespoonful of white sauce, then pass this through a tammy with the wooden spoons; put the puree thus obtained into a basin, together with two raw yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; having well stirred these together, mix with them a gill of consomme of fowls, and then pour this preparation into six or eight small dariole moulds, previously buttered for the purpose; set them carefully in a fricandeau pan containing sufficient boiling water to reach half-way up the moulds, put the lid on the pan, and place it either on a very moderate fire or in the oven. About ten minutes will suffice to poach the custards, when they must be turned out of the moulds on to a napkin, and afterwards placed in the soup-tureen previous to pouring the puree upon them. Cream of Rice a la Victoria Prepare the cream of rice as above directed, and twenty minutes before sending to table add to it about one and a half ounces of whole rice, well boiled in a little white consomm£ of fowls : this rice must be boiled in the puree for twenty minutes; and just before serving the soup, mix in with it a gill of cream and a pat of fresh butter. Cream of Rice a la Cardinal Prepare a cream of rice in the usual way, and pour it into a soup- tureen containing a dozen of crayfish tails and ten or twelve very small quenelles of fowl. A good dessertspoonful of crayfish or lobster butter and the juice of half a lemon should be mixed in with the soup previous to pouring it upon the crayfish tails, etc. Cream of Rice a la Juvenal To a cream of rice prepared according to the instructions for making the cream of rice k la Royale, there must be added a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; having thoroughly incorporated these, whileSOUPS MADE WITH RICE OR PEARL BARLEY 83 stirring the soup over the fire (taking care that it does not boil), pour the soup into a tureen containing eighteen very small quenelles of fowls, coloured with a little spinach-green (see p. 74). Puree of Rice a la Chasseur Wash and blanch two ounces of Carolina rice, and after draining all the water from it, put it on to boil with a quart of consommd of pheasant or partridge. When the rice is sufficiently done, rub it through the tammy or a fine sieve; and having clarified it in the usual way, by adding some of the same sort of consomme the rice is boiled in, about five minutes before sending the soup to table mix in with the cream of rice one and a half pints of the puree of one pheasant or two partridges (as the case may be). Be careful not to allow the soup to get too hot after adding the puree of game to it, as it would be sure to decompose and become rough and unsightly. Should this accident, however, occur, it may be remedied by taking the soup away from the fire, putting a little consomme to it, and quickly rubbing it through the tammy again; by these means it will resume its proper smoothness. This remedy will be found effectual for rectifying similar accidents, should they occur, with meat purges in general. Cream of Pearl Barley a la Victoria Wash three ounces of pearl barley in several waters, blanch and drain it upon a sieve, and having allowed some cold water to run over it for a few minutes, put it into a stew-pan with two quarts of white consommd of fowls, and set it to boil by the side of a slow fire for two or three hours. When the barley is sufficiently done to admit of its being bruised easily, set one-third of it aside in a small sauce-pan, and immediately proceed to rub the remainder through a tammy or sieve; then mix the cream of barley thus obtained with the whole barley which has been set aside. Ten minutes before serving up this soup, add to it a gill of cream. Cream of Pearl Barley a la Reine The process for making this soup is exactly the same as that used for making the cream of rice h. la Chasseur, barley being substituted for rice, and poultry for game (see above). Cream of Pearl Barley a la Printaniere Having prepared a cream of pearl barley as above directed, just before sending it to table pour it into a soup-tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of fowl and one gill of large heads of asparagus boiled green, and serve. Cream of Pearl Barley a la Royale The puree of barley being prepared as described in the foregoing directions, and finished in the same manner, pour it into a soup- tureen containing the cooked breast of a chicken, and cut into small pieces neatly trimmed.THE MODERN COOK 84 Cream of Barley a la Princesse Alexandrina To make this soup, white consomme of game should be used to prepare the cream of barley, the puree being finished according to the method observed in former cases; when about to send the soup to table, pour it into a tureen containing scallops of the fillets of one young red-legged partridge, roasted a few minutes and then cooked in the cream. Cream of Barley a la Duchesse Having prepared a steamed custard of fowl, as directed in the preparation for making Deslignac soup (see p. 71), cut the custard thus made (allowing it time to become cold and firm) into small pillars an inch long, then place them carefully in the soup- tureen with half a pint of consomme ; proceed to pour on them three pints of cream of barley prepared and finished in the usual way, and to which has been added a dessertspoonful of lobster butter and a little cayenne pepper. BISQUES AND SHELLFISH SOUPS Bisque of Quails a la Prince Albert Fillet three or four quails, half of which must be made into force- meat quenelle and kept in a cool place until wanted for use; reserve the remainder of the fillets to be lightly simmered in fresh butter, seasoned with a little salt, and eventually cut into scallops. Take the larger bones out of the carcases of the quails, and having roughly chopped the latter, put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, a small bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a shalot, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of mignonette pepper; set these on a brisk fire, and toss or fry them brown, then add a handful of chopped mushrooms and a glass of Sauterne wine. Allow this to boil quickly for ten minutes, and then add about one and a half ounces of rice, which has been partly boiled in broth, and a quart of veal stock ; after the ingredients have been gently boiling for about an hour, drain them into a sieve, and pound the whole thoroughly in a mortar ; then replace them in the stew-pan, add the broth they were boiled in, stir the puree on the fire to warm it a little, and rub it through the tammy in the usual way. When this is done, place the puree in a well-tinned sauce-pan in a cool place. Just before dinner-time warm the punie of quails, taking care that it does not get too hot; finish seasoning it by mixing in a little crayfish butter, a teaspoonful of partridge glaze, and a little salt if needed; pour the soup into a soup-tureen containing the fillets of quails cut into neatly-trimmed scallops, as well as one dozen very small quenelles made with the fillets kept in reserve for the purpose, and send to table.BISQUES AND SHELLFISH SOUPS 85 Bisque of Rabbits au Veloute Fillet one small rabbit, make half the fillets into force-meat for quenelles; cut off all the meat from the rabbit, and with the carcase prepare a brown consomme in the usual manner. Put the remainder of the fillets and all the meat that has been cut from the rabbit into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, one or two shalots, bay- leaf, a sprig of thyme, parsley, nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt, and fry them brown. Then add one glass of sherry ; and after allowing the whole to boil briskly for about three minutes, pour in a quart of consomme made from the carcase. Let the stock thus far prepared boil gently by the side of the fire for about an hour, then drain the contents of the stew-pan into a sieve, pound them thoroughly, and after having mixed the produce with their own stock, rub the puree thus obtained through a tammy, together with half a pint of good Veloute sauce. The puree should then be put into a soup-pot, and kept in a cool place until within ten minutes of dinner-time, when it must be stirred over the fire to make it sufficiently hot; and after ascertaining that its seasoning is correct, pour the bisque into a soup-tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of rabbit, made with the fillets which have been reserved for that purpose, and serve. Bisque of Snipes a la Bonne Bouche Procure two or three fat snipes, perfectly fresh and not fishy ; fillet them, and follow the instructions given for making the bisque of quails a la Prince Albert (see p. 84), but omitting the crayfish butter. Warm the puree of snipes just before it is wanted for table, pour it into a soup-tureen containing the scallops made from half the fillets, and one dozen small quenelles made from the remainder. Send up with this soup, to be handed round, some crofttons of fried bread cut in small circular pieces about the eighth of an inch thick; a circular incision having been made on one side of the bread before it is fried, the inner part is afterwards easily taken out, and in its place should be put a farce, made with the trail of half the snipes (the remainder should be used in the puree). This farce is to be prepared thus :— Put the trail into a small stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, pepper, and salt, and after frying it lightly on the fire for a minute or two, add a dessertspoonful of good brown sauce, and then rub it through a hair-sieve with a wooden spoon. Fill the crofttons with this farce, smoothing the surface with a small knife; and previous to serving them, put them in a sautd-pan into the oven for five minutes to warm them ; serve them on a plate to be handed round with the soup. Take care not to put the crofttons into the soup, as that would destroy their crispness. Bisque of Crayfish a l’Ancierme Procure three dozen crayfish, from which remove the part contain- ing the gall in the following manner :—Take firm hold of the crayfish with the left hand, so as to avoid being pinched by its claws ; with the thumb and forefinger of the right hand pinch the extreme end ofTHE MODERN COOK 86 the central fin of its tail, and with a sudden jerk the gall will be with- drawn. Then mince or cut into small dice a carrot, an onion, one stick of celery, and a little parsley; to these add a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, a little mignonette pepper, and one ounce of butter. Put these ingredients into a stew-pan, and fry them on the fire for ten minutes ; then throw in the crayfish and pour on them a glass of French white wine. Allow this to boil, and then add three pints of strong consomme, and let them continue gently boiling for half an hour; then pick out the crayfish, and strain the broth through a napkin by pressure into a basin in order to extract all the essence from the vegetables. Pick the shell off two dozen of the crayfish tails, trim them neatly, and set them aside until wanted. Reserve some of the spawn, and also half the body shells, with which to make a little crayfish butter (see p. 43) to finish the soup. Take all that remains, and add to them one or two anchovies washed for the purpose, and also a plate of crusts of French rolls fried to a light- brown colour in butter. Pound all these thoroughly, and then put them into a stew-pan with the broth that has been reserved in a basin, and having warmed the bisque thus prepared, rub it through a tammy into a puree. Then take the puree up into a sauce-pan; finish by incorporating therewith the crayfish butter, season with a little cayenne pepper and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the bisque quite hot into the soup-tureen containing the crayfish tails, and send to table. Bisque of Crayfish a la Malmesbury Wash thoroughly one quart of mussels, steam them in a well- covered stew-pan, and then pick out all the white mussels from the shells, and put them into a stew-pan with some of their own liquor. To these add two dozen tails of crayfish, and twelve very small quenelles of whiting which have been mixed with sufficient chopped and blanched parsley to give them a green colour. Just before dinner-time warm the mussels, etc., in a pint of consommd, put them into the soup-tureen, and then pour the bisque of crayfish quite hot on to them. Let the bisque be prepared in the same way as described in the bisque of Crayfish it l’Ancienne. When there is not sufficient time for thickening the puree by the addition of the fried crusts of the French rolls, one and a half ounces of well-boiled rice, half a pint of reduced Veloute sauce, or even the crumb of a French roll soaked in hot stock and pounded with the crayfish may be used; but the fried crusts are to be preferred. Bisque of Crab a la Fitzhardinge Procure one large boiled crab, pick the white meat from the claws into shreds, and put it away between two plates in a cool place until wanted. Scoop out all the pulpy part of the crab, as well as all the white meat to be found in the shell, and pound these well with about one ounce of rice boiled in stock ; dilute the whole with a quart of good consomme, and then rub it through a tammy into a puree, put it into a sauce-pan, and keep it in a cool place.BISQUES AND SHELLFISH SOUPS 87 Just before sending to table stir the puree over the fire with a wooden spoon, taking care that it does not get too hot, as that would cause the soup to curdle. Finish seasoning the soup by mixing with the puree half a gill of cream and a little cayenne pepper ; then pour the soup into a tureen containing the shredded meat taken out of the claws, previously made warm in a gill of consomme, and send to table. Bisque of Lobsters a la Stanley Take all the meat out of two small hen lobsters, reserving the inside part, coral, and spawn separately. Cut the meat of the lobster into small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, one stick of celery, and a carrot cut into small shreds, a small piece of mace, thyme, pepper, and a little salt; fry these over the fire for five minutes, and then, having moistened them with half a pint of Rhenish white wine, allow the whole to boil quickly on the fire for about twenty minutes. Drain the lobster, etc., on a sieve, then pound this thoroughly in a mortar, and put it again into the stew-pan with the inside part reserved for the purpose, and also the broth, adding thereto about a quart of clarified and reduced Velouffi sauce, and a pint of strong consomme; then rub the purde through the tammy, and after having put it into a sauce-pan, place it in the cool until wanted. Ten minutes before dinner-time put the bisque to warm, stirring it the whole of the time, taking care to prevent its curdling. Finish seasoning it with one ounce of lobster butter, a little cayenne pepper, the juice of half a lemon, and a teaspoonful of light-coloured glaze. Pour the soup into the tureen containing two dozen tails of prawns with one dozen small quenelles of whiting, and serve. Bisque of Prawns a la Cerito Procure three dozen fresh prawns, pick and trim eighteen of the largest of them, which, when done, put into a small stew-pan, to remain in the larder until wanted. Then cut into small shreds or dice one young carrot, a stick of celery, and a little parsley; and having put these into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a sprig of thyme, some mignonette pepper, and a little salt, set the whole on the fire to be fried to a light colour. Next throw in the remainder of the prawns, as well as the bodies of those from which the tails have been taken, and then add a glass of Sauterne wine; allow these ingredients to boil for ten minutes, and then add two ounces of rice previously boiled in stock, and also a quart of strong white consomme of veal. Having allowed this to boil gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour, strain the whole into a sieve— reserving the broth in a basin. Then pound the prawns, rice, and vegetables all together in a mortar, dilute with the broth which has been reserved, and rub the whole through a tammy or fine sieve in the usual manner; put the purde into a sauce-pan, and keep it in a cool place until dinner-time, when, having made it sufficiently hot88 THE MODERN COOK without allowing it to boil, finish it by mixing in with it one ounce of lobster coral butter, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Pour the soup into the tureen containing the prawns’ tails with one dozen small quenelles of trout, and serve. FISH SOUPS AND WATER SOUCHETS IN GENERAL Fish Consomme Scale and skin a tail-piece of salmon about two pounds, cut it into slices, and put in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, one sliced onion, one sliced carrot, and a bouquet of herbs. Fry these over a quick fire for ten minutes, drain off the fat, and add two quarts of water; bring it to the boil, skim, and let it cook gently for about an hour; add a glass of claret or sherry wine. Strain and cool the stock, and clarify it with two whites of eggs and their shells crushed, season with salt, pepper, and aromatics. Strain through a cloth, reheat, and add a handful of Royal custard or vegetable macedoine. The remainder of salmon should be used up for Croquettes, Bouchees, or Omelet. Haddock Cream Soup Place a large smoked haddock (cut side up) in a baking tin, cover it with two to three pats of butter, moisten with half a pint of milk, and cook it in the oven for about twenty minutes. Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, stir in one and a half ounces of flour, and cook a little whilst stirring; then pour on the liquor from the cooked fish, also strain gradually one pint of milk and one quart of water; stir till it boils, add the haddock free from skin and bone, and let all simmer gently for about thirty minutes. Season to taste with very little salt, nutmeg, and pepper; strain, and rub through a fine sieve. Return to the stew-pan; add a little stock or more milk, boil up, add a tablespoonful of crushed tapioca, and, lastly, a gill of cream. The soup is then ready to serve. Oyster Soup a la Plessy Take two dozen oysters. Blanch or scald these by boiling them for a few minutes on the fire, drain them and save the liquor ; wash the oysters, and pull off the beards and tendons, leaving only the delicate fat part of the oysters, which put into a basin with their liquor. Next prepare one dozen quenelles from the fillets of one small whiting ; put the bones and trimmings into a small stew-pan with two or three small flounders, an eel cut into pieces, some parsley, a carrot, one stick of celery, a sprig of thyme, two blades of mace, and a few peppercorns. To these add a glass of French white wine and the liquor of the oysters ; set the whole to boil briskly for ten minutes, then add two whole anchovies (washed for the purpose) andFISH SOUPS AND WATER SOUCHETS 89 three pints of white consommd. Allow the stock thus prepared to boil gently for three-quarters of an hour3 then strain it off through a sieve into a stew-pan, and thicken it with two ounces of white roux, and as soon as it has boiled, set it by the side of the stove to clarify itself in the usual way. When the body of the soup thus far prepared has been rubbed through a tammy, finish it for table just before dinner-time by mixing in with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and a little lemon juice3 then pour the soup into the tureen containing the oysters reserved for that purpose with the dozen quenelles of whiting, and serve. Soup of Fillets of Soles a la Bagration Fillet a large sole, and place the fillets lengthwise in a sautd-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter, season with a little pepper and salt and some lemon juice, cover them with a round of buttered paper and set them in the oven, or on a stove-fire, for ten minutes, when they will be done. Take the fillets up, and set them in press between two dishes, and when cold, with a round tin cutter, stamp them out into small scallops and place them in a small stew-pan in the larder until wanted. Make some quenelle of the fillets of half the sole, colour it with some lobster coral, and mould it with two teaspoons into one dozen very small quenelles, which, when poached, place with the scallops of soles3 to these add about half - a - dozen blanched mussels. Mix with these ingredients about three pints of the same kind of soup sauce as used for the preceding soup, and when ready to serve place the scallops of soles, the mussels, and the red quenelles (first warmed in a small quantity of the soup) into the tureen, and then mix in with the soup a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, pour it on to the scallops, etc., and serve. Eel Soup a la Richmond Fillet one large eel, and cut the fillets into small scallops 3 place these, in circular order, in a large saute-pan containing about one ounce of clarified butter3 season with cayenne pepper, salt, lemon juice, and one teaspoonful of chopped parsley 3 set the covered saute- pan on the fire to simmer gently for about twenty minutes, then add a glass of sherry, after which let it boil sharply for a few minutes longer. Put the scallops of eels thus prepared into the soup-tureen, with eighteen dozen tails of crayfish, and instantly pour over these a soup sauce, previously prepared according to the following directions:— Cut into shreds or dice one carrot, a stick of celery, parsley, one shalot, and a handful of mushrooms. Put these into a stew-pan with a sprig of thyme, a small bay-leaf, a little sweet basil, a few pepper- corns, and one blade of mace. Fry these ingredients with two ounces of butter until they begin to be of a light-brown colour 3 then throw in the bones and trimmings of the eel, eighteen bruised crayfish, and a glass of Chablis wine. Allow this to boil briskly on the fire for five minutes, then add three pints of veal stock, and after it has boiled gently by the side of the fire for three-quarters of an hour, strain theTHE MODERN COOK 9° stock through a tammy-cloth with considerable pressure in order to extract all the goodness from the vegetables, etc. Put the broth thus prepared into a stew-pan, and having thickened it with about two ounces of white roux to the consistency of a thin sauce, work it according to the method observed for all sauces. Observe that as this sauce is for soup, it should be lighter in substance. Finish with a liaison of two yolks of egg and season accordingly, and mix in with it a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley. Soup of Fillets of Flounders a l’Anglaise Fillet four or six flounders, simmer the fillets in a little fresh butter, seasoned with pepper, salt, and lemon juice. When done, place them in the soup-tureen with eighteen quenelles of trout and pour on them a soup made according to the following directions :— Put the bones and the trimmings of the flounders and the trout, from which the small quenelles are to be made, into a stew-pan with one carrot, a stick of celery, parsley, a sprig of thyme, and a few peppercorns. To these add three pints of ordinary stock from the boiling stock-pot (if possible) and a glass of Sauterne. When it has boiled for three-quarters of an hour, strain off the broth into a small soup-pot and make it into a smooth white Veloute sauce (see p. 3); just before pouring it into the soup-tureen (containing the fillets of flounders and the small quenelles of trout already mentioned) finish it by mixing in with it a liaison of two yolks of egg, half a gill of cream, and a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little lemon juice, and cayenne pepper. Sturgeon Soup a rAmericaine Procure two pounds of fresh sturgeon, one-third of which must be trimmed and tied so as to preserve it from falling to pieces while being braised, then put it in a stew-pan, and cover it with some mire- poix (see p. 57) or wine prepared as directed. Let it boil, and then set it in the oven for about forty minutes, according to the size of the fish. When this portion of the sturgeon is done let it be put away in the larder to get cold, in order that it may be afterwards cut into scallops to be put into the soup. While the above is in course of preparation make a brown sauce with the remainder of the sturgeon as follows :— Melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, then cut an onion in slices and strew over the bottom; on these place the sturgeon cut into thick slices, a carrot, one stick of celery, some parsley, a sprig of thyme, bay-leaf, six cloves, two blades of mace, and a dozen pepper- corns ; then add a pint and a half of good stock, and put the whole to boil briskly on the fire until the broth is nearly reduced; lessen the heat to prevent the glaze thus obtained from being burned, by which the flavour would be lost. Then proceed with this sauce exactly as shown for the treatment of brown sauce or Espagnole (see p. 3). Having thus produced a bright, thin brown sauce, finish the soup by mixing in a teaspoonful of turtle herbs, a piece of anchovy butter, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, lemon juice, and a glass of91 FISH SOUPS AND WATER SOUCHETS Madeira. Let the scallops boil a few minutes in the soup previously to adding the butter, etc. When about to serve up the soup pour it into a tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of lobster, and send to table. Sturgeon Soup a l’Anglaise Prepare the sturgeon for this soup in the same way as for the preceding, with the exception that the sauce must be white. Having made a quart of thin white Veloute sauce, and seasoned it with the same ingredients as before named, add a teaspoonful of turtle herbs (see p. 93), a glass of sherry, a liaison or binding of one yolk of egg, half a gill of cream, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon juice. When about to send the soup to table pour it into the tureen con- taining the scallops of sturgeon cut into square pieces, one dozen small round pellets of yolks of eggs prepared as for turtle (see p. 94), and all the gelatinous parts of the sturgeon cut into scallops also. The pellets of yolks of eggs here alluded to are thus prepared :— Take the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, pound them in the mortar with a pat of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of bread-crumb, soaked in milk and afterwards squeezed in a napkin to extract all the moisture from it; to these add a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and bind with a little beaten egg. Mix the whole well together by pounding, and then proceed to mould this paste into small round balls or pellets, the size of a nut, and poach them as you would any other quenelles. Sturgeon Soup a la Chinoise Procure the head of a sturgeon, saw it in halves from the back of the head down to the snout; then saw the halves into pieces the size of your fist, and place them in a large-sized pan with cold water to soak for several hours, taking care to wash them and change the water frequently. Next put the pieces of sturgeon into a large stew- pan in plenty of cold water, and set them on the fire to boil gently until the husk or shell is easily detached from the pieces of cartilage or gristle; place the latter, when thoroughly freed from the meaty and fatty substances, in a large stew-pan; moisten with a quart of good veal stock. Garnish with a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, three or four cloves, and a few peppercorns; boil gently for about two hours. As soon as you find that the pieces of cartilage are become transparent and rather soft to the touch, they must be immediately drained upon a sieve, and the liquor placed in a clean stew-pan and set beside the fire, adding a glass of good sherry and a small pinch of cayenne. Allow the soup to boil gently by the side of the stove for about half an hour, taking care to remove all the scum that rises to the surface ; after which add the pieces of cartilage and a squeeze of lemon, and serve. This soup is very strengthening; the wine, lemon juice, and cayenne may be dispensed with for invalids. The head of the sturgeon forms an excellent substitute for turtle, and may be dressed after the same manner.92 THE MODERN COOK Sturgeon Soup a I’lndienne Prepare three pints of sturgeon consommt: as for the preceding soups, bearing in mind that it should be nearly colourless. Having strained the stock when done into a large basin, and preserved all the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon, get a carrot, one stick of celery, and one onion, cut these into thin slices, and put them into a stew- pan with two ounces of butter and one ounce of raw ham cut into small pieces; fry the whole to a light-brown colour over a slow fire. When this is done add to the above-named ingredients two ounces of sifted flour to thicken the soup, and stir it on the fire a few minutes longer; then take the stew-pan off the stove and mix the sturgeon broth in carefully, so as to keep the sauce smooth. Add one dessertspoonful of curry paste, and after allowing it to boil, lift it off the fire and set it by the side of the stove, there to throw up all the butter it contains, and to clarify itself in the usual way. When this is effected, rub the soup sauce, including the vegetables, etc., through a tammy into a pur£e, which put into a soup-pot with the scallops and the cartilaginous parts of the sturgeon; after boiling the whole together for a quarter of an hour, skim the surface, and finish by adding a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Send to table with a plate of plain boiled Patna rice, to be handed round with the soup. Note.—See also pages 120, 132, 152. TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS Turtle Soup Procure a fine, lively fat turtle weighing about 120 lbs.—fish of this weight being considered the best, as their fat is not liable to be impregnated with that disagreeable strong savour objected to in fish of larger size. On the other hand, turtle of very small size seldom possess sufficient fat or substance to make them worth dressing. When time permits, kill the turtle overnight that it may be left to bleed in a cool place till the next morning, when, at an early hour, it should be cut up for scalding—that being the first part of the operation. If, however, the turtle is required for immediate use, to save time the fish may be scalded as soon as it is killed. The turtle being ready for cutting up, lay it on its back, and with a large kitchen-knife separate the fat or belly-shell from the back by making an incision all round the inner edge of the shell; when all the fleshy parts adhering to the shell have been carefully cut away it may be set aside. Then detach the intestines by running the sharp edge of a knife closely along the spine of the fish, and remove them instantly in a pail, to be thrown away. Cut off the fins and separate the fleshy parts, which place on a dish by them- selves till wanted. Take particular care of every particle of the green fat, which lies chiefly at the sockets of the fore-fins, and more or less all around the interior of the fish, if in good condition. Let this fat, which, when in a healthy state, is elastic and of a bluish93 TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS colour while raw, be steeped for several hours in cold water in order that it may be thoroughly cleansed from all impurities. Then with a meat saw divide the upper and under shells into pieces of convenient size to handle, and, having put them with the fins and head into a large vessel containing boiling water, proceed quickly to scald them; by this means they will be separated from the horny substance which covers them, which will then be easily removed. They must then be put into a larger stock-pot nearly filled with fresh hot water, and left to continue boiling by the side of the stove-fire until the glutinous substance separates easily from the bones. Place the pieces of turtle carefully upon clean dishes, and put them in the larder to get cold; they should then be cut up into pieces about an inch and a half square, which pieces are to be finally put into the soup when it is nearly finished. Put the bones back into the broth to boil an hour longer, for the double purpose of extracting all their savour and to effect the reduction of the turtle stock, which is to be used for filling up the turtle stock-pot. In order to save time, while the above is in operation, the turtle stock or consomme should be prepared as follows:— Melt two and a half ounces of fresh butter in a stock-pot; then place in it a quarter of a pound of raw ham cut in slices—over these put two pounds of leg of beef and a small knuckle of veal, one old hen (after having removed the fillets, which are to be kept for making the quenelles for the soup); to these add all the fleshy pieces of the turtle (excepting those pieces intended for entrees), and then place on the top the head and fins of the turtle; moisten the whole with a glass of Madeira and three quarts of good stock; add a handful of mushrooms, three or four cloves, one blade of mace, and a good- sized bouquet of parsley tied up with two bay-leaves, a sprig of thyme, green onions, and shalots. Set the consomme thus prepared on a brisk fire to boil sharply, and when the liquid has become reduced to a glaze, fill the stock-pot up instantly with enough liquor to cover, and as soon as it boils skim it thoroughly, garnish with the usual proportion of vegetables, and remove it to the side of the stove to boil gently for six hours. Remember to probe the head and fins after they have been boiled two hours, and as soon as they are done drain them on a dish, cover them with a wet napkin well saturated with water to prevent it from sticking to them, and put them away in a cool place with the remainder of the glutinous parts of the turtle already spoken of. The stock-pot should now be filled up with the turtle broth reserved for that purpose, as directed above. When the turtle stock is done strain it off into an appropriate-sized stock- pot, remove every particle of fat from the surface, and then proceed to thicken it with a proportionate quantity of white roux to the con- sistency of thin sauce. Make this exactly in the same manner as directed for Espagnole or brown sauce in order to extract all the butter and scum, so as to give it a brilliant appearance. Two glasses of old Madeira must now be added, together with a puree of herbs of the following kinds to be made as here directed :— Sweet basil must form one-third proportion of the small bunchTHE MODERN COOK 94 of herbs intended to be used, winter savory, marjoram, and lemon- thyme in equal quantities making up the other two-thirds ; add to these a tablespoonful of parsley, two or three green onions, four to six green shalots, and some trimmings of mushrooms; moisten with a pint of broth, and having stewed these herbs for about an hour, rub the whole through a tammy or fine sieve into a pur£e. This pur^e being added to the soup, a pinch of cayenne pepper should then be introduced. The pieces of turtle as well as the fins, which have been also cut into small pieces and the larger bones taken out, should now be allowed to boil in the soup for a quarter of an hour, after which carefully remove the whole of the scum as it arises to the surface. Season carefully according to taste. To excel in dressing turtle it is necessary to be very accurate in the proportions of the numerous ingredients used for seasoning this soup. Nothing should predominate, but the whole should be har- moniously blended. Put the turtle away in basins, dividing the fat (after it has been scalded and boiled in some of the sauce) in equal quantities into each basin; as also some small quenelles, which are to be made with the fillets of hen reserved for that purpose, and in which, in addition to the usual ingredients in ordinary cases, put two yolks of eggs boiled hard. Mould these quenelles into small round balls to imitate turtles’ eggs, roll them with the hand on a marble slab or table with the aid of a little flour, and poach them in the usual way, When the turtle soup is wanted for use, warm it, and just before sending it to table add a small glass of sherry or Madeira, and the juice of one lemon to every four quarts of turtle. The second stock of the turtle consomme should be strained off after it has boiled for two hours, and immediately boiled down into a glaze very quickly, and mixed in with the turtle soup previous to putting it away in the basins; or else it should be kept in reserve for the purpose of adding proportionate quantities in each tureen of turtle as it is served. Clear Turtle Soup Proceed in the preparation of three quarts of turtle stock in every respect according to the preceding instructions. The glutinous parts of the turtle having been cut into squares, select the dark-coloured pieces from the back shell and keep them for the clear turtle. When the turtle stock has boiled six hours, strain it off and divide it into two equal parts—the one to be finished in the usual manner, the other to be first freed from every particle of fat, and afterwards clarified in the usual manner, with two whites of eggs whipped up with a little cold water, and the addition of a glass of French white wine or the juice of a lemon; add a table- spoonful of turtle herbs to give the requisite flavour, and set it to boil on the fire, whisking it the whole time. As soon as the egg begins to separate in the stock, remove it to the side of the stove, pour in a glass of Madeira, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the egg be thoroughly set. Then proceed to strain it through95 TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS a napkin into a large stew-pan, in which afterwards put the pieces of turtle selected for the purpose; boil them in it until they are sufficiently done, and then add a pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve. If considered desirable a little lemon juice and a few quenelles of fowl may be added, as also some of the finest pieces of the green fat. Clear turtle soup is preferred by some epicures to that which is dressed in the usual way, from its being free from the additional compounds used in the full-dressed turtle : it is in consequence much lighter, more delicate and pure, and is unquestionably easier of digestion. Mock=Turtle Soup Procure half a scalded calf’s head, or, as it is sometimes called, a turtle-head; bone it in the following manner :—Place the calf’s head on the table with the front part of the head facing you; draw the sharp point of a knife from the back part of the head right down to the nose, making an incision down to the bone of the skull; then with the knife clear the scalp and cheeks from the bones right and left, always keeping the point of the knife close to the bone. Having boned the head, put it into a large stew-pan of cold water on the fire; as soon as it boils skim it well, and let it continue to boil for ten minutes; take the calf’s head out and put it into a pan full of cold water. Then get a stock-pot, and melt in it one ounce of butter; place in it three or four ounces of raw ham, one pound of knuckle of veal, and an old hen partially roasted; moisten with two quarts of stock, and put the stock-pot on the fire to boil until the broth is reduced to a glaze, when instantly slacken the heat by covering the fire with ashes, and then leave the soup to colour itself gradually. Allow the glaze at the bottom of the stew-pan to be reduced to the same consistency as for brown sauce, and fill up the stock-pot with three quarts of water. Place the half head in the stock, and after setting it to boil, and thoroughly skimming it, garnish with the usual proportion of vegetables, two or three cloves, a blade of mace, a small handful of mushrooms, four shalots, and a good bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf tied together, and a little salt. Set it by the fire to boil gently till the calfs head is done; then take the pieces of head out, and place them on a dish to cool, afterwards to be cut into squares and put into a basin till required for adding them to the soup. Strain the stock through a broth cloth, and thicken it with some light-coloured roux to the consistency of thin brown sauce; let it boil, and allow it to throw up all the butter and clarify itself thoroughly; then add a glass of sherry, about a table- spoonful of turtle herbs (see p. 93) in which one or two anchovies have been mixed, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and the calfs head cut into squares, as also the tongue braised with it. Let these boil together for about ten minutes, then add eighteen small round quenelles and a little lemon juice, and send to table. Clear Mock-Turtle Soup To make this soup follow the instructions laid down for making clear turtle (see p. 94), merely substituting calfs head for turtle.THE MODERN COOK 9s Mulligatawny Soup Cut up a small chicken as for fricassee, place it neatly in a stew-pan, in which previously put a small carrot, a small onion, a stick of celery, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, and mace; fill up with three pints of good veal broth, and when the pieces of chicken are nearly done, strain them off into a sieve, saving their broth in a basin. Cool the pieces of chicken in cold water, and then take them up on a clean napkin, trim them neatly, and place them in a basin to be put into the soup afterwards. Then cut one large onion in halves, taking out the head or root part, and again cut these into slices; place in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a carrot, and a stick of celery cut small, and fry these over a slow fire until the onion is nearly melted and become of a fine light-brown colour; then add two or three ounces of flour, or sufficient to thicken the quantity of soup you wish to make: stir this on the fire two or three minutes, and after adding a good dessertspoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of curry paste, proceed gradually to mix in with these, first the broth the chicken was boiled in, and afterwards one quart of consomme of veal or as much as may be found requisite to produce the quantity of soup desired. Place this on the fire, stirring it the whole time, and as soon as it boils, put it by the side of the stove to clarify itself in the usual way; then rub it through the tammy or a fine sieve into a puree, and pour it upon the pieces of chicken. Half an hour before dinner-time place the soup on the fire, stir it till it boils, place it by the side to continue boiling gently for ten minutes, by which time the chicken will be done ; skim the soup, ascertain that the seasoning be correct, and send it to table with a plate of plain boiled Patna rice, to be handed round with the soup. Giblet Soup Take one or two sets of giblets properly cleaned and trimmed; put them into a stew-pan full of boiling water to scald for five minutes; drain them in a colander, immerse them in cold water, and then place them on a napkin to drain. Singe the necks and wings over the flame of a fire, and carefully pick out all the stubble feathers, cut the giblets up into inch-and-a-half lengths, place these in a stew-pan with a stick of celery, two small carrots, two small onions, two small turnips; also four cloves, a blade of mace, and a bunch of parsley, with a sprig or two of basil, winter savory, lemon-thyme, and one or two green onions, a sprig of common thyme, and one bay-leaf. Fill the stew-pan with two quarts of veal stock, and after allowing them to boil gently by the side of the fire till they are done (which will be seen when the pieces of gizzard are become tender), immediately drain them in a large sieve, pouring their broth into a basin. Im- merse the giblets in cold water, then pick them out free from any particles of herbs or vegetables that may adhere to them; place them on a napkin, and when neatly trimmed put them by in a sauce-pan. Next pour the giblet broth into a stew-pan, and having thickened itTYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS 97 in the usual manner with a sufficient quantity of roux to the con- sistency of thin sauce, set it to boil on the stove-fire, and afterwards place it by the side to clarify itself. When the soup has been cleared of the butter, etc., add a glass of sherry and a pinch of cayenne, and then pour the soup on to the giblets, and put the soup in the larder till dinner-time; when, having allowed the giblets to boil in the soup a few minutes, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and send to table. Clear Giblet Soup a I’lrlandaise Prepare the giblet broth in every respect as directed for making the preceding soup, trim and put the giblets away in a soup-tureen, skim off every particle of fat from the surface of the broth, and clarify it by incorporating therewith the whites of one or two eggs whipped up with a little cold water; set the consomme thus prepared on the stove to boil, then add to it a glass of sherry, and as soon as it boils up again place it by the side of the stove, there gently to simmer for twenty minutes in order to set the eggs. Then strain the consomme through a napkin on to the giblets, reserving one quart of it in a stew-pan, in which boil the white parts of a head of celery, and two or three large leeks cut into inch lengths and shred as for Julienne soup, adding this to the giblets ; season to taste, and send up to table. Ox=Tail Soup Procure one fresh ox-tail, cut each joint after dividing them into inch lengths with a small meat saw, steep them in water for two hours, and then place them in a stew-pan with one carrot, one turnip, one onion, and a stick of celery, four cloves, and a blade of mace. Fill up the stew-pan with three pints of broth from the boiling stock-pot; boil this by the side of the stove-fire till done, drain the pieces of ox-tail on a large sieve, allow them to cool, trim them neatly, and place them in a sauce-pan. Clarify the broth the ox-tail was boiled in, strain it through a napkin into a basin, and then pour it into the sauce-pan containing the trimmed pieces of ox-tail, and also some small olive-shaped pieces of carrot and turnip that have been boiled in a little of the broth, and a small lump of sugar; add a pinch of mignonette pepper, and previous to sending the soup to table let it boil gently by the side of the fire for a few minutes. This soup may be served also in various other ways by adding to it a puffie of any sort of vegetables, such, for instance, as a puree of peas, carrots, turnips, celery, or lentils. Calf’s = Feet Soup a la Windsor Place in a stock-pot a pound of knuckle of veal, four ounces of raw, lean ham, two calfs feet, and an old hen minus the fillets—which reserve for making quenelles. To these add a carrot, one onion stuck with four cloves, half a stick of celery, a bouquet of parsley, green onions, sweet basil, and lemon thyme tied neatly together; moisten with two glasses of light French white wine, and put the HTHE MODERN COOK 93 stock-pot on a moderate fire to boil for ten minutes or so; then add three pints from the common stock or any white broth you may have ready, set it to boil on the stove, skim it well, and after four hours’ gentle boiling, take the calf’s feet out and put them in water to clean them; then take all the bones out, and lay them on a dish to cool, to be trimmed afterwards so as to leave the inner part of the feet only, all the outer skin being thinly pared off that the feet may have a more transparent appearance; cut them into inch lengths by half an inch in width and put them by in a small sauce-pan till required. Strain the consommt: through a napkin, thicken it moderately with a little white roux (going through the regular process for making white Veloute), then add to it a dessertspoonful of essence of mushrooms, and finish by incorporating with the sauce thus prepared a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan and a gill of cream ; squeeze the juice of half a lemon into it, and season with a pinch of cayenne. Pour the soup into a tureen containing two dozen very small quenelles (made with the fillets of the old hen), two tablespoonfuls of boiled macaroni cut into inch lengths, and the tendons of the calfs feet, previously warmed in a little consomme, with the addition of half a glass of white wine. Stir the soup gently in the tureen to mix these in- gredients together, and send to table. Hare Soup Skin and paunch a hare, and cut it up as follows:—First take off the legs close to the loins and divide them into three pieces, slip the shoulders off and cut them into two parts, cut the back into six pieces, and divide the head in halves. Next place a stew-pan on the stove-fire containing four ounces of butter, a carrot, two onions, a head of celery cut into small slices, and fry these to a light colour ; then add the pieces of hare, over which, when also fried brown, shake a good handful of flour and moisten with half a bottle of port wine, at the same time adding a bouquet of herbs, three cloves, a blade of mace, and two quarts of veal stock; stir the whole on the fire until it boils, then take it off and set it by the side to boil gently for an hour and a quarter, taking care in the meantime to skim off the butter, etc., as it rises to the surface. Take out the pieces of hare when done from the soup and place them on a dish; select the finest pieces of meat, remove the bones, and set these pieces aside in a soup-pot; clear the remainder of the meat from the bones, and pound it thoroughly with the vegetables from the soup; when these are pounded mix them again with the soup and pass the whole through a tammy into a puree, and pour it on to the pieces of hare reserved in the soup-pot. This soup must not be thick, consequently it may be necessary after passing it through the tammy to add a little veal stock to thin it. Just before sending to table make the soup hot, but be careful that it does not boil; ascertain that its seasoning is correct, and serve.TYPICAL ENGLISH SOUPS 99 Hare Soup a la St. George Get one good-sized leveret and fillet it. Place the fillets in a small saute-pan with a little fresh butter, pepper, and salt; cover them with a round of buttered paper and put them in the larder till dinner-time. Reserve a sufficient quantity of the meat from the leveret’s hind-quarters in order to make some quenelle; cut the remainder into small pieces and fry them exactly in the same manner as directed in the preceding soup; shake into them two ounces of flour to thicken the sauce of the soup, moisten with a glass of claret and three pints of veal stock; add a bunch of herbs made with a sprig or two of basil, marjoram, parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, four cloves, mace, and two shalots. Let the soup boil, skim it well, and when the hare is thoroughly done pass the soup through a tammy or fine sieve into a sauce-pan ; put this on the fire to clarify, and that it may be reduced if necessary, and then pour it into the soup-tureen, which should contain eighteen small quenelles made with the meat reserved for that purpose as before mentioned; also the scallops of hare prepared by lightly frying the fillets in the saute- pan, and which must be afterwards scalloped. Season to taste, and send to table. Leveret Soup Get a good-sized leveret, cut it into pieces, and fry these in -a stew-pan with two ounces of butter; as soon as they are brown moisten with a glass or two of sherry, allow the wine to boil, then add three pints of consomme or veal stock, garnish with carrot, onion, celery, mace, cloves, and peppercorns, a bouquet of bay-leaf, thyme, basil, marjoram, and winter savory; let these herbs be used in small quantities in order that they may give flavour without predominating. When the soup has boiled three-quarters of an hour let the pieces of hare be drained on a sieve, and at the same time pass the broth into a bgsin; afterwards place the pieces of hare on a napkin, and when neatly trimmed put them into a soup-tureen. Next clarify the consomme in the usual manner and strain it through a napkin on to the pieces of leveret; and, just before sending to table, add to the soup eighteen very small quenelles of leveret, and some white celery cut into shreds and boiled in a small quantity of the soup. Ox=Cheek Soup Procure half of a fresh ox-cheek, and put it to braise in a small stock-pot with a pound of knuckle of veal and some roast-beef bones ; add three pints from the boiling stock-pot, or water; garnish with the same amount of stock vegetables used for ox-tail soup (see p. 97), adding three or four cloves, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns. As soon as the ox-cheek is done, take the meat off the cheek-bone and put it in press between two dishes. Strain off the broth, adding to it half a pint of gravy to colour it, and proceed to clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs. While the consommd is clarifying, trim the ox-cheek and cut it into neat scallopsTHE MODERN COOK IOO an inch square and half an inch thick; put these into a small sauce- pan and add to them one or two small carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes and boiled in a little broth, a lump of sugar, and also half-a-dozen very small white button onions. Strain the clarified consomme thus prepared into the sauce-pan, and having allowed the soup to boil a few minutes by the side of the fire, just before serving, add a pinch of mignonette pepper and send to table. Deer’s=Head Soup a la Chasseur1 Procure a young deer’s head perfectly fresh, scald it and cleanse it thoroughly; proceed then to prepare the soup in exactly the same manner as for mock-turtle ; just before sending to table add two dozen small quenelles made with deer’s flesh, together -with some small scallops of deer simmered in a little fresh butter and fine herbs. Take care that the soup does not boil after the scallops are added to it. Grouse Soup Roast a brace of young grouse, take the whole of the meat from the bones, carefully cutting out the lower part of their backs, which, being bitter, must be rejected. Set aside four of the fillets, cut them into scallops, to be put in the soup afterwards. Put the carcases and bones of the grouse into a stew-pan with a glass or two of sherry, a carrot, onion, half a stick of celery, a few cloves, a couple of shalots, and a blade of mace; set these to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes, after which add three pints of good stock, and having allowed it to boil an hour and a half, strain it off into a basin. Pound the whole of the meat yielded by the grouse, excepting the four fillets before named, mixing with it a good tablespoonful of rice boiled in broth ; moisten with the grouse essence, and pass it through the tammy or a fine sieve into a purde, and put it into a small basin. Just before dinner-time warm the pur^e, taking the usual precaution to prevent it from curdling; pour it into the soup-tureen containing the scallops of the fillets of grouse and eighteen very small quenelles of the same. PUREES OF POULTRY AND GAME Puree of Fowl a la Reine Boil one medium-sized chicken, free all the meat from the bones, chop and pound it thoroughly with three ounces of boiled rice; dilute it with three pints of chicken stock made with the skin and carcase of the chicken used for the puree, and rub it through a tammy or fine sieve with the aid of two wooden spoons into a large dish. Put the pur£e into a basin, and put it away in the larder till dinner-time; then warm it, with the usual precaution to prevent its curdling; mix with it a gill of cream, and having ascertained that the soup is well seasoned, send to table. 1 This will be found a very useful soup in those parts of the country where deer abound.PURGES OF POULTRY AND GAME IOI Puree of Fowl a la Printaniere Prepare the puree of fowl as for the preceding soup; just before sending it to table add the cream, and then pour the puree into the soup-tureen containing a good gill of asparagus-heads boiled green. Send a plate of fried crofttons with the soup to table. Puree of Fowl a la Princesse Prepare the puree of fowl in the usual manner, and having mixed the cream in it, pour it into the tureen containing eighteen very small quenelles of fowl, and one and a half ounces of pearl-barley, well blanched and boiled for two hours in some white chicken broth. Season to taste and send to table. Puree of Fowl a la Celestine Roast a medium-sized fowl; as soon as it is cold pound the meat in a mortar together with two ounces of blanched almonds and two yolks of eggs, beginning with the almonds, then adding the yolks of eggs, and lastly the fowl. Dilute with the chicken broth made with the carcase of the fowl; rub the purde through the tammy, and put it into a basin to be kept in the cool till dinner-time: when, after having warmed it, add a tablespoonful of cream and send to table. A plate of duchess’ crusts should be sent to table with this soup. Puree of Partridges a la Conti Roast one or two red-legged partridges; take the meat from them, make three or four pints of consomme with their carcases, pound the meat thoroughly, mixing with it one and a half ounces of barley boiled for the purpose; dilute with the consomme, rub it through the tammy, and having made the puree sufficiently hot (taking care that it is not too thick), send to table with a plate of conde crofttons. Puree of Pheasant a la Royale Roast a pheasant, remove the fillets and white part of the legs ; make three or four pints of consomnffi with the remainder. Pound the fillets, etc., with two ounces of boiled rice, dilute with the consommd, and rub the puree through the tammy; finish with a small piece of game glaze or essence, and serve. The crofttons to be sent in a plate as usual. Puree of Pheasant a la Dauphine Prepare a puffie of pheasant as in the preceding recipe; when about to send the soup to table pour it into a tureen containing eighteen small potato quenelles, and serve. The potato quenelles should be prepared as follows:—Bake two or three large potatoes and rub the pulp through a wire-sieve; put this into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of cream, a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir these on the fire untilTHE MODERN COOK 102 the mixture forms a smooth paste; then take the stew-pan off the stove and proceed to incorporate with the paste two yolks; and then mould the small quenelles with teaspoons, and poach them as you would any others, in water or broth. Puree of Pheasant a I’Anglaise Prepare a puree of pheasant in the usual manner, and having finished it as in the foregoing recipe, pour it into a tureen containing the fillets of one pheasant cut into scallops, and serve. Puree of Partridge a la Beaufort Prepare a puree of partridge in the manner described for making the puree of red-legged partridge; warm and finish the puree in the same manner, and just before sending to table pour it into the tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of partridges, the tails of one dozen crayfish, and a tablespoonful of cocks kernels (previously simmered in a little white broth with butter, lemon juice, and salt), and serve. Puree of Partridge a la Balzac Prepare a puree of partridge in the usual manner, and finish by incorporating with it two ounces of crayfish butter and a piece of game glaze; then pour the hot puree into a tureen containing one dozen crayfish tails and eighteen quenelles of partridges—in the preparation of which one dessertspoonful of chopped truffles have been mixed previous to moulding the quenelles; and send to table. Puree of Hare a la Conti Skin, paunch, and cut up half a hare into pieces. Put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan with two shalots, a blade of mace, a sprig of thyme, and half a bay-leaf. When the butter has been made hot on the stove-fire put the pieces of hare into the stew-pan, and having fried these to a brown colour, moisten them with a glass of Sauterne wine ; when the wine has boiled ten minutes add three pints of good consomme ; and then, after allowing the hare to boil gently on the side of the fire for about an hour and a quarter, strain the pieces of hare into a sieve, reserving the broth in a basin, and after having separated the meat from the bones, etc., pound thoroughly with one and a half ounces of boiled rice; dilute it with the stock it was boiled in, and pass it through the tammy into a puree. Just before sending to table, make the puree sufficiently hot, and having tested its degree of seasoning, serve with a plate of fried crofitons. Puree of Rabbit a la Maitre d’Hotel Roast one good-sized young rabbit, and while it is before the fire season with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and baste with half a pint of cream mixed with one ounce of fresh butter and one ounce of flour. This batter should not be used until the rabbit has been roasted ten minutes, and care should be taken to make it adhere to the rabbit while it continues roasting; when it is done, remove all the meat, and pound it in a mortar with one and a half ounces of103 NATIONAL SOUPS barley previously boiled for the purpose; dilute with two quarts of consomme made from the carcase, rub the whole through the tammy, and put this puree into a small basin. Just before dinner- time make it hot, and incorporate with this a tablespoonful of cream and a pat of fresh butter; then pour it into a tureen containing eighteen small quenelles of rabbit, in preparing which a little grated Parmesan cheese, mignonette pepper, and a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley must be added. Puree of Rabbit a la Chantilly Prepare a puree of rabbit as for the preceding soup, finish it by adding a gill of cream and a piece of glaze; then pour the hot soup into a tureen containing six or eight small custards previously pre- pared for the purpose in the following manner:—Pass three yolks of eggs through a tammy into a stew-pan; to these add a few drops of spinach-green (see p. 74), a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, a teaspoonful of essence of game, and a gill of cream; beat the whole well together, and pass this mixture through a tammy or sieve into a basin, and then pour it into small dariole moulds (previously buttered); place them in a stew-pan containing hot water to the depth of an inch, and set them to steam by the side of the fire, taking care that the stew-pan has the lid on. A quarter of an hour will suffice to steam these custards ; when done, turn them out of the moulds with care, and place them instantly in the soup-tureen as directed. NATIONAL SOUPS Raviolis a la Napolitaine Prepare a consomm^ gravy soup in the following manner :—Melt two ounces of butter in a small stock-pot, and place in it some slices of raw ham, one pound of gravy beef, a small knuckle of veal, and either half an old hen or a partridge. To these add a stick of celery, one leek and carrot, sprigs of thyme and winter savory tied into a bunch with some parsley, cloves, mace, and peppercorns; moisten with one and a half pints of broth, and put the gravy on a fire to boil down to a glaze, taking the usual precautionary measures to prevent it from burning. As soon as the glaze is sufficiently coloured, fill the stock- pot up with one quart of good stock; when it boils, skim it and set it down by the side of the fire to boil gently for three hours ; then strain off the consomme, clarify it with a couple of whites of eggs, and pass it through a napkin into a basin, to be used as follows :— Raviolis Mix half a pound of sifted flour with two or three yolks of eggs, a little salt, and half an ounce of butter; let these ingredients be placed on a paste slab, putting the yolks of eggs, etc., in the centre of the flour; then knead them into a firm, smooth, compact paste; and after allowing it to rest in a damp cloth for half an hour, spread itTHE MODERN COOK 104 out with the rolling-pin until it becomes nearly as thin as a sheet of paper. Place the paste thus rolled out lengthwise on the slab, then with the paste-brush dipped in water moisten its whole surface, and lay on it, about two inches apart from each other, some small round balls of raviolis farce of the size of a cob-nut, in rows. This farce is prepared as follows:—Put four ounces of a boiled or roasted fowl, pheasant, or partridge into a mortar, pound the meat thoroughly, and add to this about one ounce of fresh-made curd, one table- spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, one tablespoonful of blanched spinach, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; moisten with one or two yolks of raw eggs, and mix the whole well together into a smooth compact body ready for use. Wrap the outer part of the paste, when the raviolis farce has been laid on it, over the outer row of balls, cover them as if for making puffs, finish them by fastening down the paste with the thumb, and then cut them out with a small, round, fluted cutter into half-moons : and as they are cut out place them on a large dish, there to be left for some time, in order to dry the surface, so that it may more resemble Italian paste. Having repeated this operation until you have made two dozen raviolis, and after they have been dried in the larder, proceed to blanch them ; this is done by throwing them into a large stew-pan containing some boiling stock or water, and allowing them to continue boiling therein for a quarter of an hour ; then drain the raviolis on to a napkin. Next take the lining of a soup-tureen, butter it, place therein a layer of raviolis and a layer of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, and so on alternately until the silver tureen lining be filled; shake some grated cheese on the top, and moisten with a glass of old Madeira and half a pint of the gravy made for the purpose, and then put the lining into the oven or over a slow fire, there to reduce the gravy and to gratinate. Brown the top with a heated salamander, and send to table with the remainder of the clear consomme in the soup- tureen. This soup should be thus served: With a gravy spoon help a portion of the gratinated raviolis in a soup-plate, and add to these a ladleful of the consommd. Rice Soup a la Florentine Prepare a thin puree of rice and moisten it with one pint of consomme of fowl; finish by adding one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, a pat of butter, and a little mignonette pepper ; then pour the soup thus prepared into the soup-tureen, and send to table with a plate of very small croquettes of rice, which are to be handed round with the soup. Rice Croquettes for Soup The croquettes of rice here alluded to are thus made :— Wash and blanch four ounces of Carolina rice, and boil it in a little stock with one ounce of fresh butter, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and a little salt j when done, add half an ounce of grated ParmesanNATIONAL SOUPS io5 cheese and one or two yolks of eggs ; work the whole on the fire for five minutes, spread it on a plate, and when this paste is sufficiently cold mould it into very small round balls. Just before dinner-time dip these in some beaten egg and roll them in flour; then put them into a deep frying-pan in enough hot clean fat to cover; fry them to a fine deep yellow colour and send to table on a hot plate, on napkins, to be handed round with the soup as before stated. Soup a la Piemontaise Prepare three pints of brown purde of turnips (see p. 76), in which mix half a pint of tomato pulp; just before sending to table incorporate with the soup a paste composed of one or two anchovies washed, filleted, and pounded, with a clove of garlic and a pat of butter, all passed through a fine hair-sieve; and pour the soup into a tureen containing eighteen very small quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) and a pluche of chervil and tarragon (that is to say, the leaves of chervil and tarragon picked and parboiled green), and send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate, to be handed round with the soup. Soup a la Bearnaise Let a pint of garbangas, or large yellow Spanish peas, be put in soak overnight, place them in a small stock-pot with one ounce of raw ham, and having filled up with three pints of common stock, set the stock-pot on the fire to boil; skim it well, and put it by the side to boil gently for four hours. Meanwhile, cut one onion, one carrot, and a stick of celery into small dice, put these into a stew- pan with one ounce of fresh butter and a small clove of garlic; fry them to a very light-brown colour, and after adding two or three fresh tomatoes mix the whole in with the garbangas. As soon as the garbangas are done, pound and rub them through the tammy or sieve—diluting with good consomme; put the puree in a small sauce-pan, and clarify it in the usual manner by allowing it to throw up its scum while boiling gently by the side of the fire: remember that this puree must be kept rather thin. During this process cut half a white-heart cabbage into quarters, removing the core, shred them as fine as possible, place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter on a moderate fire, and fry them as you would vegetables for Julienne soup. When they are considerably reduced in quantity, and become of a yellowish colour, moisten them with half a pint of stock ; keep them gently simmering until they are thoroughly done ; add them to the puree, together with a pinch of mignonette pepper, and about a gill of whole garbangas reserved for this purpose. When the cabbage has boiled a few minutes in the puree, pour the soup into the tureen, and send to table with an accompanying plate of grated Parmesan cheese, to be handed round with the soup. Bouillabaisse or Provengale Soup Cut two large onions into slices, and fry them in oil; when they begin to turn a light-brown colour add a sprig of thyme and a clove of garlic, and shake in one ounce of flour; stir this on the fire for a4 io(5 THE MODERN COOK few minutes, moisten with a glass of Sauterne wine, and add a quart of good consomme; stir this sauce on the fire till it boils, then set it by the side to continue gently simmering for half an hour, and rub it through the tammy like any other puree; then take it up and pour it into a small basin. Just before dinner-time make the soup hot, and finish by incorporating with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a little cayenne, the juice of a lemon, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; pour the soup into the tureen containing one and a half dozen of scallops of any sort of fish (crimped cod or whiting is the best for the purpose) prepared as follows :—Cut two slices of crimped cod into small scallops, and put them into a deep saute-pan with a little oil, mignonette pepper, and a little salt, some chopped tarragon and chervil, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; fry these on the fire, pour them into the soup-tureen, and when the soup is poured on them, throw in a handful of duchess’ crusts fried in butter or oil, and send to table. Borsch or Polish Soup Place in a good-sized stock-pot a pound of knuckle of veal, an old hen partially roasted and coloured, a couple of marrow bones, a quarter of a pound of streaky lean bacon (trimmed and parboiled for the purpose), one carrot, one stick of celery, and one onion stuck with cloves ; also a bunch of parsley tied together with a little thyme, sweet basil, bay-leaf, and mace; then add a teaspoonful of white peppercorns. Fill the stock-pot up with two quarts of prepared beet- root juice,1 set it upon the fire to boil, and after being skimmed, let it boil gently by the side of the fire for an hour; then add a duck, a partridge (trussed for boiling), and a quarter of a pound of pork sausages. See that the above ingredients are not overdone, and be careful to take them up directly they are sufficiently braised ; then place them on a dish, and set them in the larder to get cold. While the stock is in preparation peel one small raw beetroot and shred it, also one onion, and a small stick of celery as if for Julienne soup ; fry these vegetables in a little butter to a light colour, moisten with half a pint of broth from the boiling stock, and having gently boiled them down to the consistency of a demi-glaze, set them in a basin in the larder. Then chop two ounces of fillet of beef with the same quantity of beef suet, add a little pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and one yolk of egg; pound this force-meat thoroughly, and use half of it to make eighteen small round quenelles, by rolling them with a little flour on the table; poach these in a little broth, and having drained them upon a napkin, add them to the vegetables put by in the basin. With the remainder of the force-meat make the same number of very small oval quenelles, which, after being rolled 1 The beetroot juice to be used in the borsch is made as follows :—Procure three or four fine beetroots, scraped and washed, bruise them in a mortar, and place them in an earthen pan, into which throw two quarts of water and four ounces of bread- crumb. Cover the pan with the lid, carefully cementing it down with a paste of flour and water in order to exclude the air ; and set the pan in a moderately warm place, so as to accelerate the fermentation. Ten days will suffice to produce the desired result ; on uncovering the pan it will be found to contain a bright red acidulated liquor.107 NATIONAL SOUPS with flour, set in a small saute-pan to be fried to a light colour, just before dinner-time. Boil two eggs hard, cut them in halves length- wise ; take the yolks out and pound them with one raw yolk of egg, a little grated horse-radish, chopped parsley, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; fill the eggs again with this farce, and having replaced the halves together, dip them in a beaten egg, and then roll them in bread- crumb, and set them aside to be fried at the same time as the small quenelles before mentioned. After five hours’ boiling, strain off the stock-pot; when every particle of fat is removed, clarify it in the usual way, and then keep the consomme boiling in order to reduce it to the quantity required for the soup. In the meantime, trim the meat off the duck and partridge into neat scallops ; cut the bacon and sausages into small round balls, and carefully place all these ingredients into the silver lining of a soup- tureen, keeping the shredded vegetables and braised beef quenelles on the top; keep hot until dinner-time. Then grate or pound a beet- root, place this in a stew-pan on the fire, and boil it up for a few minutes ; extract the juice by strong pressure through a tammy-cloth, and use it to colour the consomme, so as to give it the appearance of claret. Just before sending to table pour two quarts of boiling con- somme to the ingredients contained in the soup-tureen, adding a pinch of mignonette pepper; send up the fried eggs cut in halves, and also the fried quenelles, in a plate, to be handed round with the borsch. Ouka or Russian Soup Place in a stock-pot a pound of knuckle of veal, half a pound of raw ham, and an old hen roasted for the purpose; fill up with two quarts of common stock, set it to boil, and having skimmed it, garnish it with the usual vegetables, adding to these either two or three parsley roots or half a parsnip. After five hours’ boiling strain off the consomme and clarify it in the usual manner; strain it again through a napkin into a basin, to be set aside until wanted to finish the soup. While the stock is boiling take one pound of crimped salmon, one perch, a small eel, and one mullet; fillet and cut these into scallops, placing them neatly in a deep saute-pan; season with a pluche of picked parsley, chervil, and tarragon leaves (the latter in a small proportion), some boiled shred parsley roots, mignonette pepper, grated nutmeg, salt, and a glass of Chablis or Sauterne; having first allowed these scallops to boil on the stove for five minutes, moisten with a pint of essence of fish (made with the carcases and trimmings of the fish used for the scallops), let them boil quickly for ten minutes longer, and then pour the consomme on to them; after they have boiled together two or three minutes pour the soup into the tureen contain- ing eighteen small quenelles of whiting, in which a little lobster coral and half a gill of pur£e of mushrooms have been mixed. See that the seasoning is correct, and send to table. This soup is a species of souchet, and may be varied by using different kinds of fish. It is much esteemed by those who are fond of fish.THE MODERN COOK io8 Russian Tschi or Cabbage Soup First, cut two onions into small dice, and fry them with one and a half ounces of butter in a stew-pan over a slow fire, and when they assume a light yellow-brown colour, add to these a small white-heart cabbage which has been previously shred fine for the purpose, and, after having continued to fry this also with the onions for about ten minutes, one tablespoonful of flour should be added; stir the whole well together, moistening with two quarts of good consomme, season with a little nutmeg and mignonette pepper, and after the soup has boiled gently by the side of the stove for about an hour in order to clarify it, let it be well skimmed ; and previous to sending the soup to table add a pluche of tarragon leaves and a few drops of lemon juice. Previous to pouring the tschi into the soup-tureen place therein about eighteen small sausages made in the following manner, viz.:—To two ounces of lean fillet of beef add an equal quantity of beef suet; first chop, and then pound these well together in a mortar, season with grated nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and one tea- spoonful of chopped parsley ; add one yolk of egg, mix well together by pounding the whole ten minutes longer, after which proceed to roll the sausage meat into small round or oval shapes the size of a cob-nut; and, after frying these to a light colour in a little clarified butter, use them as directed above. Olla Podrida or Spanish Soup Place some slices of raw ham at the bottom of the stock-pot, add one pound of gravy beef cut in slices, and a roasted old hen; garnish with the usual vegetables, two cloves, and mace; moisten with a quart of stock, set the stock-pot on the fire, and let the broth be reduced to a glaze ; fill it up with two quarts of water as soon as it boils, skim it, and then set the stock to boil gently by the side of the stove. When the consomme has boiled two hours throw in a partridge trussed for boiling, a quarter of a pound of pork sausages, and half a Spanish saveloy ; watch the braising of these to prevent their being overdone ; take them out when they are sufficiently braised, place them upon a dish to get cool, then divide the partridge into small joints, trimming them neatly, and cut the sausages and saveloys also into small round balls, and place all these in a sauce-pan, together with a carrot and a turnip cut into the form of rather large-sized olives, and some celery and a stick of leek previously boiled in consomme with a small lump of sugar; to these must also be added a tablespoonful of boiled yellow Spanish peas (garbangas). After four hours’ boiling strain the stock off, clarify it, and strain it again through a napkin ; add it to the above-named ingredients with a pinch of mignonette pepper ; boil the whole for ten minutes, and send to table. Turkish Pilaff or Pilau Place a pound of knuckle of veal with some slices of raw ham in a stock-pot, also two pounds of roasted shoulder of lamb and a small109 NATIONAL SOUPS fowl trussed for boiling; fill up with three quarts of common broth or water, and having skimmed the broth garnish with the usual vege- tables. As soon as the fowl and lamb are done take them up, and when cold cut the meat off the shoulder of lamb into small cutlet-like pieces, and the fowl into neatly-trimmed joints. Place these in a small sauce-pan with four ounces of Carolina rice boiled in some of the consomme, after it has been clarified and seasoned with an infusion of a few drops of hay saffron and a pinch of cayenne ; and then having reduced the consomme to two-thirds of its original quantity, pour it upon the foregoing ingredients, adding two ounces of dried cherries or sultana raisins; boil these together for a quarter of an hour, and send to table. This kind of soup is very nutritious, and, from the cayenne and saffron contained in it, is calculated to give tone to the stomach. Macaroni Soup a la Royale Boil three ounces of Naples macaroni in a quart of boiling water with one ounce of fresh butter, a little mignonette pepper, and salt. When the macaroni has boiled half an hour, drain it off upon a sieve, cut it into half-inch lengths, and boil it in three pints of good chicken or game consomme for ten minutes ; take it off the stove and mix with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a gill of cream, half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little mignonette pepper; set the liaison in the soup by stirring it on the fire for three minutes, and send to table. Vermicelli or any other Italian paste may be substituted for the' macaroni. This soup is sometimes designated “h l’ltalienne.” Macaroni Soup a la Medicis Boil three ounces of Naples macaroni, and cut it into inch lengths ; at the same time trim the tails of one dozen crayfish and the same number of quenelles of fowl, coloured with crayfish butter ; place these in the silver lining of a soup-tureen according to the following directions:— Butter the bottom of the lining and spread thereon a layer of macaroni, then a layer of grated Parmesan cheese, after which place a layer of crayfish tails; repeat the layer of grated cheese, and place on that a layer of small quenelles ; and thus proceed until the several articles prepared for the purpose are disposed of. Then add a pint of strong consomm£, and cover the top with grated cheese; melt a small pat of fresh butter over the fire and sprinkle it on the top of the whole preparation ; then set the tureen lining thus filled to gratinate in the oven, which will require about half an hour. Lastly, place the lining on a dish to be served from the side table while more bright clear consomme is to be sent up in another tureen. In helping the soup at table first put a small ladleful of the preparation of macaroni, etc., on a soup plate, and add to it a ladleful of the consomme.THE MODERN COOK IIO Macaroni Soup a la St. Pierre Cut three ounces of macaroni that have been boiled into inch lengths, place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of lobster-coral butter and a little cayenne, simmer it gently on the fire for ten minutes, and then place a fourth part in a silver soup lining ; on this sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese, then put a layer of blanched soft roes of mackerel, over which place some grated cheese; again cover this with some prepared scallops of salmon, and thus repeat the foregoing instructions until the ingredients are all used up, finish- ing this part of the operation by sprinkling over the whole some grated cheese and adding a pint of good consomme ; lastly, place the lining in the oven to gratinate, which must be carefully attended to. Send the soup to table with another tureen of clear bright consomme, to be served in the same manner as described in the preceding recipe. Semolina Soup a la Palermo Mix four ounces of wheaten flour with the same quantity of Turkish wheat flour, place these on the paste-board or slab, and having made a hollow in the centre, place in it two or three yolks of eggs, a teaspoonful of cream, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; proceed to work these into a firmly-kneaded paste. Spread this out very thin with the aid of a rolling-pin, and having cut it into bands an inch wide, shred these so as to resemble vermicelli. Strew these shreds on a large baking-sheet covered with paper, and put them to dry for four hours in a cool oven. A quarter of an hour before dinner-time throw the shreds thus prepared into three pints of boiling game consomme; skim this, and place the stew-pan containing the soup by the side of the fire, to continue gently boiling until the time for serving; then, after adding a pinch of mignonette pepper, send to table with some grated Parmesan cheese on a plate to be handed round with the soup. Semolina Soup a la V^nitienne Sprinkle two ounces of semolina into two quarts of boiling con- somme of game; after boiling gently by the side of the stove-fire for a quarter of an hour, add a glass of Madeira, half an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a gill of cream mixed with two yolks of eggs, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Set this pre- paration on the fire,—taking care not to let it curdle,—then pour the soup into a tureen containing the fillets of half-a-dozen larks which have been simmered with fine herbs. Stir the soup gently into the tureen in order to mix the scallops with the semolina. In Italy the fillets of a small delicious bird called Beccaficas are used instead of larks. Semolina Soup a la Pisane Bone and braise two calf’s feet, and having pressed them between two dishes, cut them out into round pieces the size of a shilling, with a tin cutter; place these in a stew-pan together with one dozen veryDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 111 small quenelles it la Xavier (see p. 63) and a glass of Madeira; allow them to simmer on the fire for five minutes, and add them to a similar quantity and description of soup as directed in the preceding recipe, but omitting the fillets of larks, and send to table. Note.—The above soups may be prepared with equal success by using any of the numerous sorts of Italian pastes, instead of keeping to those described for the purpose. The soups may also be varied by changing their garnishes. DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL TURBOT AND BRILL Plain Boiled Turbot or a l’Anglaise Procure, if possible, a turbot conveyed by land-carriage, of small size : the larger fish are never delicate; choose it thick and plump, open it to ascertain that the back-bone is free from colour, as when it has a reddish appearance, although perfectly fresh, it is sure to boil a bad colour. Wash the turbot, wipe it dry, remove the dark skin and rub it over with the juice of a lemon and a little salt; put it into a turbot-kettle, add a sufficient quantity of spring water to cover the fish, then throw in a good tablespoonful of salt, and set the turbot on the stove to boil; as soon as the water begins to simmer, skim it thoroughly and lift the kettle from the fire to the side, there to remain gently boiling for half an hour, more or less, according to the. size of the fish. When the turbot is done, lift it out of the water with the drainer; slip it carefully on to a dish prepared to receive it, and send it to table with either Lobster (see p. 14) or Dutch sauce (see p. n). Turbot a la Parisienne Choose a turbot weighing about two and a half pounds, trim the fins off close, remove the dark skin, make an incision in the back from head to tail, and, inserting the knife on either side, detach the fish from the bone right up to the fins; then cut the back-bone through, close to the head and tail, and carefully separate the under part of the fish from the bone, so as not to run the knife through; bone the turbot in this manner, wipe it with a clean cloth, season it inside with a little pepper and salt, and spread a layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, mixed with a small teaspoonful of chopped fine herbs, inside. Then butter a large baking-sheet, and place the turbot upon it with the white side uppermost; moisten with a small • glass of French white wine, a little essence of mushrooms, and a gill of oyster liquor; season with a little pepper and salt, place a buttered paper over the whole, and set the fish to boil on the stove ; next put it in the oven to simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care to baste the turbot with its liquor every five minutes so that it may thus absorb the greater portion while stewing. When the turbot is done, drain it from its liquor on to a large earthenware dishTHE MODERN COOK I I 2 and put it to cool in the larder, reserving the liquor in which it has been stewed to be reduced and mixed with half a pint of Parisian sauce (see p. n) to be used for garnishing the turbot when dished up. When the turbot is cold, place it on a buttered baking-sheet and spread it over with a thin layer of reduced Allemande sauce, over which shake some very finely sifted bread-crumbs, fried to a light colour ; moisten the fish with a little consomme and wine, and put it in the oven about twenty minutes before sending it to table, that it may get thoroughly warm through; when about to dish it up, slide it gently off the baking-sheet on to a dish, and sauce it round with part of the Parisian sauce prepared for the purpose; garnish with oysters, button-mushrooms, and small round truffles tossed in a little glaze to give them a bright appearance. Send up the remainder of the sauce in a boat. Broiled Turbot a la Proven^ale Procure a small, plump turbot, make an incision in the back, and with a strong knife cut away an inch of the spine, trim the fins close, remove the dark skin, score it rather deep on the back, and then place it on an earthenware dish to steep for four hours in a marinade made of the following ingredients : sliced carrot, onion, sprigs of parsley, bay-leaf and thyme, one clove of garlic, pepper and salt, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of salad oil. Let the turbot be frequently rubbed and turned in this marinade that it may be thoroughly impreg- nated with its flavour. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner remove every particle of marinade from the turbot, place it, with the white side under, on a gridiron (previously rubbed with chalk or whitening), and set it to broil on a clear fire of moderate heat: twenty minutes will suffice to broil it on one side; it must then be carefully removed on to a deep baking-sheet, upon its back, first placing the whole of the marinade in the baking-sheet or dish; moisten with a glass or two of light white wine, and then put the turbot in the oven to bake, observing that it must be basted every five minutes with its liquor. When the turbot is done, lift it carefully on to its dish, put the whole of the marinade in which it has been baked into a stew-pan with a little more wine or stock, boil the whole together for five minutes, strain it with pressure through a tammy into a stew-pan, and reduce it with half a pint of Allemande sauce; add a pat of anchovy butter, some chopped and blanched parsley, a dessertspoonful of capers, and a little cayenne; garnish the turbot round with this sauce, adding groups of mussels fried in batter, and some lobster cut in scallops and tossed in lobster coral to give them a scarlet hue. Send some of the sauce to table in a boat. Turbot a la Careme Prepare a small turbot according to the foregoing directions, omitting the garlic; when it is done reduce the liquor and incor- porate it with half a pint of Dutch sauce, having Supreme sauce for its foundation ; add half an ounce of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice ; work the sauce well together over the fire and pour itDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL ”3 round the turbot; glaze the fish lightly, garnish it with groups of fine large crayfish and quenelles of whiting coloured with some green Ravigote (see p. 6). Serve the remainder of the sauce in a boat. Turbot a la Vatel Prepare and dress two or three pounds of turbot according to the directions given for turbot a la Parisienne (see p. 111); when done,drain and place it on a dish, reduce the liquor in which it has been cooked, and incorporate it with a gill of Supreme sauce, finished with a little green Ravigote butter (see p. 43); add one dozen oysters, some button - mushrooms, lemon juice, and cayenne. Cover the turbot with this sauce, and garnish it round with six fried smelts trussed with their tails in their mouths, and previously boned and stuffed. Serve as usual some of the sauce in a boat. Turbot a la Creme au Gratin Boil two pounds (middle cut) of a turbot, drain it on a dish, and while it cools prepare one pint of cream Bechamel sauce (see p. 3); reduce it and add the yolk of one egg, one ounce of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, a little mignonette pepper, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice. With a spoon cut the turbot into small flakes, and put them in the sauce, taking care to waste none of the delicate meaty part of the fins, the cheeks, and glutinous membranes of the fish. Stir the whole lightly together, and pile it neatly in the shape of a dome on the dish; cover it thoroughly and smoothly with four ounces of finely sifted bread-crumbs fried and mixed with a fourth part of grated Parmesan cheese, garnish round with fried croquettes of potatoes, and twenty minutes before sending to table put the turbot in the oven to gratinate; pass the red-hot salamander over it to melt the cheese, and pour round the inner circle of the croquettes some more of the Bechamel sauce made with good rich cream. Send up some of the sauce in a boat. Turbot a la Creme au Gratin (another way) This, as well as the foregoing, may be prepared from the remnants ot a previously dressed fish as follows :— Place the flakes of turbot in a stew-pan with half a pint of cream Bechamel sauce (see p. 3), pile it up in the centre of the dish, shake some grated Parmesan cheese on the surface, pour some double cream over this, and having placed the dish over a moderate fire in order to gratinate the fish slightly, at the same time hold a red-hot salamander over it to give the surface a very light-brown colour. Potato croquettes or pastry fleurons should be neatly placed round the edge of the dish, and immediately served. Turbot as Matelote Normande Prepare a small plump turbot, in every respect according to the directions given for dressing a turbot b. la Parisienne (see p. in); when done, drain and place it on a dish ; reduce the liquor, add to it half a pint of Allemande sauce, in which mix a small pat of butter, 1THE MODERN COOK 114 a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little lemon juice, and a pinch of cayenne; work the sauce well together on the fire, and then add twelve button-mushrooms, the same quantity of blanched oysters or mussels, and an equal proportion of very small quenelles of whiting; cover the turbot with the sauce, and garnish it round with glazed crofitons of fried bread. Turbot a la Bechamel Prepare half a pint of good, rich cream, Bechamel sauce (see p. 3); put the flakes of some boiled turbot in it, toss them lightly together on the fire, serve the turbot piled up on the dish in the form of a dome, and garnish it round with potato croquettes, fleurons of puff paste, or crofitons of bread. This method of dressing turbot, as well as turbot a la creme au gratin, is useful when some of this fish has been left over; neverthe- less the sauces, in both cases, really deserve that the turbot should be boiled for the express purpose. Turbot dressed as above may also be served in a vol-au-vent. Turbot a la Marechale Prepare a very small turbot as for Matelote Normande (see p. 113), drain it and set it on a dish to cool; then spread it over on both sides with some reduced Allemande sauce; shake some fine bread-crumbs over this, and after dipping it in a beaten egg seasoned with a little salt, bread-crumb it over again thoroughly. About twenty minutes before dinner, place the turbot in a frying-basket, and fry it in a convenient-sized pan, containing some clean smoking fat. As soon as the coating on the turbot is coloured to a very light- brown colour, take the fish out of the fat on to a cloth, press it lightly with a clean napkin in order to absorb any grease there may be on it, and placing it on a baking-sheet, keep it warm till required to be dished up. Put the turbot then on a dish, and pour round the following sauce Reduce the liquor in which the turbot has been cooked, and add to it half a pint of Allemande sauce, and mix in a pat of anchovy butter, some green Ravigote, lemon juice, and cayenne. Next garnish round with eighteen quenelles of whiting shaped with two dessertspoons, one half of which must be coloured with lobster coral and the other with some black truffles chopped very fine, and mixed in the quenelle force-meat previous to their being shaped. Send to table some of the sauce as usual in a boat. Fillets of Turbot a lTndienne Cut about two pounds of turbot into neatly-trimmed fillets or scallops, set them carefully in a deep sauffl-pan with two ounces of fresh butter and two teaspoonfuls of curry paste; put the lid on the saute-pan, and place it on a slow fire or in the oven to simmer gently for twenty minutes; then take it out, and add three-quarters of a pint of Veloute sauce (see p. 3), and set the whole to boilDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL ”5 together a few minutes on the fire; then dish up the fillets, one overlapping the other, in a circle; pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer, make it hot, and mix in a pat of butter; coat the fillets with the sauce, and serve. Fillets of Turbot a la Ravigote Prepare the fillets of turbot as directed in the preceding recipe, place them in a saute-pan with two and a half ounces of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt and lemon juice; ten minutes before dinner set them on a moderate fire, and when sufficiently simmered on one side, turn them carefully on the other, so as not to break them; when done, drain the fillets on a napkin, and dish them up, overlaying each other so as to form a close circle; sauce them with some white Ravigote sauce (see p. 6), and send to table. Fillets of Turbot a la Vertre Prepare the fillets as for the previous entree, and dish them up in a similar manner; fill the centre with crayfish tails; pour some Ravigote sauce (see p. 19) over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Turbot a l’ltalienne Prepare, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as in the previous recipe, and sauce the entree with some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), in which incorporate a pat of anchovy butter and a teaspoonful of chopped capers. Fillets of Turbot a la Cardinal Cut, dress, and dish up the fillets of turbot as directed in former recipes; sauce them with some Cardinal sauce (see p. 13), and garnish the centre of the entrde with six prawns or crayfish tails, twelve small quenelles of whiting or lobster, and six small button- mushrooms. Fillets of turbot may be dressed in a variety of ways, according to the sauce or garnish used, from which, accordingly, the fillets derive their denomination : as, for instance, a la Maitre d’Hotel, k la Sauce Homard or Lobster sauce, k la Sauce aux Huitres or Oyster sauce, etc., etc., etc. Brill This species of fish, bearing a great resemblance to turbot, may be dressed in every variety of form in which turbot is capable of being sent to table ; it may also be served plain boiled, with either Lobster, Shrimp, Crayfish, Anchovy, Caper, Dutch, Oyster, Mussel, or Ravigote sauce. John Dory This kind of fish, although a great favourite with many, is very seldom sent to table in any other shape than as a plain boiled fish, either with Lobster or Dutch sauce; it may, however, be prepared by following the recipes given for turbot.116 THE MODERN COOK SALMON AND TROUT Salmon a la Chambord Take three and a half to four pounds (middle cut) of a salmon. Boil the salmon in salt and water; when done, drain it on a dish, and immediately take off the whole of the skin, and put the fish to cool in the larder. In the meantime prepare three or four ounces of quenelle force-meat of whitings, part of which should be coloured with some pounded lobster coral, and as soon as the salmon is cold, spread a layer of this over the whole surface of the fish, taking care to smooth it with the blade of a large knife dipped in hot water; this part of the process being completed, ornament the salmon by laying some fillets of soles which have been contises with truffles in a slanting position across the back, fastening the ends under the belly of the salmon by means of the force-meat. Then place the salmon on a buttered drainer of a fish-kettle ; moisten with a pint of stock and a glass of dry champagne, garnish with a bunch of parsley, thyme and bay-leaf, sliced carrot, and onion; place a buttered paper over the whole, and put the lid on. Next make it boil on the fire, and then put it in the oven or over a slow fire to simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour; drain the salmon and place it on a dish, and keep warm till wanted for table. Meanwhile, strain the liquor in which the salmon has been braised, reduce it to a glaze, add two gills of finished Espagnole or brown sauce, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, a little grated nutmeg, a pat of anchovy butter, and lemon juice; and pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer into a bain-marie. Just before sending to table, arrange eighteen quenelles of whiting, one dozen mushrooms, two or three truffles, and six crayfish round the salmon, sauce the fish round in the inner circle with the hot sauce, and serve. Let there be some of the sauce with truffles, mushrooms, and small quenelles of whiting in it sent to table in a boat. Salmon a la Regence Boil two and a half to three pounds of salmon, remove the skin, and mask it over with strong glaze mixed with some pounded lobster coral; place the salmon on an oval croustade of fried bread on the dish ; pour round it some Regence sauce, finished with some anchovy butter and lemon juice; and garnish it with alternate groups of twelve quenelles of salmon (mixed with some finely chopped truffles), six or eight crayfish, and eighteen button-mushrooms ; send up some of the sauce in a boat. Salmon a la Q^noise Boil two and a half to three pounds of salmon, skin it, and place it on a dish; mask it with Genoise sauce (see p. 9), and garnish it round with twelve lobster quenelles, eighteen button mushrooms, and the remainder with chopped truffles. All these garnishes areDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 117 appropriate in ornamenting this dish, but it is desirable not to use too many sorts of garnishes in the preparation of one dish. Send up at the same time some Genoise sauce in a boat. Salmon a la Cardinal Boil and skin three and a half to four pounds of salmon as directed in the first recipe of this section; cover it with a thin smooth coating of lobster quenelles; ornament it with a representa- tion of the scales of the fish by placing alternate rows of half-moons of truffle on its surface ; moisten with a glass of white wine and a pint of good broth; cover with a buttered paper, place the lid on the fish-kettle containing the salmon, and set it to simmer on a moderate fire for three-quarters of an hour. Then drain the salmon, place it in a dish on a croustade, and keep it warm till wanted. Meanwhile, reduce the liquor in which the salmon has been braised, and mix with it half a pint of Cardinal sauce (see p. 13); glaze the fish lightly and sauce it. Garnish it round with small groups of truffles, mushrooms, and quenelles of lobster. As usual, send up some of the sauce in a boat. Salmon a la Victoria Braise two pounds of salmon in a mirepoix (see p. 57) made with claret; when the fish is done, skin it, and place it on a low croustade on a dish. Then after taking the fat off the mirepoix, put one-third of it into a stew-pan, boil it down to a demi-glaze, and work it in with half a pint of brown sauce ; add a pat of anchovy butter, and a good' piece of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice; mix the whole well together, and pour the sauce over the salmon. Garnish it round with small groups of crayfish tails, fried fillets of smelts, and small quenelles of whiting. Send some of the sauce up to table in a boat. Salmon a la Marechale Boil two to three pounds of salmon in salt and water, skin and cover it with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and set it to cool in the larder; then shake some very fine bread-crumbs over it, and after fixing them on the sauce by gentle pressure with the blade of a knife, egg the salmon over with a paste-brush dipped in an egg beaten up with a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt; again shake some bread-crumbs ■ over it, smoothing them on the salmon with the blade of a knife; place the fish on a deep baking-dish, previously buttered for the purpose, moisten with a glass of white wine and half a pint of con- somme or some mirepoix. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time, put the salmon in the oven, and bake it to a deep-yellow or very light-brown colour; then place the salmon carefully on a dish, sauce it round with Crayfish or Supreme Dutch sauce, in which has been added an infusion of horse-radish, and garnish round with a border of twelve quenelles of gurnets or six fried smelts trussed as whitings are for frying.118 THE MODERN COOK Salmon a 1’Anglaise Dish up the salmon and send it to table with either of the following sauces : Lobster, Shrimp, Crayfish, Dutch, Parsley and Butter, or Mussel sauce. Salmon a l’Ecossaise To dress salmon or trout in perfection in this style it is quite necessary that the fish be dressed a short time after being caught: sportsmen well know that it is only while this kind of fish is yet almost alive that it retains that white creamy substance which appears between the flakes of the boiled fish, and which makes it so truly delicious : this is little known to the London epicure. If it be practicable to procure what is termed a live salmon, take out the gills, draw it, wash the fish, and crimp it on either side by making deep incisions with a sharp knife, and then throw it into a large vessel containing clean, very cold water, to remain there about two hours. In crimping any sort of fish, the colder the water is the better; the coldness of the water, petrifying the fish to a certain degree, gives it the firmness so much desired. As soon as the salmon or trout is crimped, put it into the fish-kettle containing boiling water in sufficient quantity to cover the fish, at the same time throwing in a good handful of salt; let the fish boil on the side of the fire, remembering that crimped fish require considerably less time in boiling than when plain. As soon as the fish is done, take it out of the water immediately: leaving fish of any kind in the water after it is done detracts from its flavour and firmness. When the salmon is dished up, send it to table with Lobster sauce, parsley and butter, or the following sauce :—Put three or four ounces of fresh butter into a clean stew-pan, add a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a little grated nutmeg, a pinch of mignonette pepper, some salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; set the stew-pan in a bath of hot water, and keep stirring the butter quickly as it melts with a wooden spoon; when the whole of the butter is melted, work the sauce well together, and send to table. With crimped salmon or trout this kind of melted butter will be found to surpass all other sauces. Salmon a la Tartare Steep some slices of salmon in a dish with a little salad oil, pepper and salt, and a few sprigs of parsley; about half an hour before dinner, place the slices of salmon on a clear gridiron rubbed over with bacon fat, and broil them on a clear fire; when done on one side turn them on the other; both sides should be of a fine light brown; dish them up, and send to table with either some Tartare (see p. 23), Cambridge (see p. 22), or Remoulade sauce (see p. 23) in a boat. Matelote of Salmon Boil and take the skin off one or more slices of salmon, mask them with some glaze mixed with pounded lobster coral; place them on a dish, and garnish with a rich Matelote ragoftt (see p. 44).DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 119 Salmon a la Venitienne Boil, trim, and glaze the slices of salmon as in the foregoing recipe, and sauce them round with a Venetian sauce (see p. 8). Garnish with a border of croquettes of fillets of soles. Cold Salmon Souffles a la Gauloise J lb. cold cooked salmon, J cucumber, J gill Bechamel sauce, i^r gill aspic jelly, fish essence, £ gill cream, salt, pepper, paprika, and nutmeg for seasoning, 1 truffle and chervil leaves for garnish. Peel and slice the cucumber, and cut out eight thin rings. Free the fish from skin and bones, put the latter in a stew-pan with one glass of claret, stock, and usual vegetables, and make into essence. Pound the salmon in a mortar; when fine enough, add the sauce and the remainder of the cucumber which has been previously blanched in salted water and well drained. Rub all through a fine sieve, and incorporate about half a gill of aspic, the fish essence, and seasoning to taste. Whip the cream till stiff, and stir into the above. Fill up eight small china or silver-plated souffle cases, each provided with a paper band, and place them on the ice; when set, put a ring of cucumber on top of each souffle and fill the cavity with aspic flavoured with fish essence. To serve, remove the paper bands, decorate the centre of each with a neatly cut slice of truffle and chervil leaves, then dish up and send to table. Salmon a la Verdi Procure a tail or jowl piece of salmon, weighing about two pounds, remove the skin and bone carefully, season with pepper and salt, and place it on a buttered fireproof dish. Moisten with a glass of Chablis or Hock, and poach in the oven for fifteen minutes or longer, accord- ing to the thickness of the fish. Have ready enough Cardinal sauce to well coat the fish and the base of the dish. Put a layer of Bearnaise sauce in the centre; upon this strew some very finely cut shreds of truffles, and serve. Mousse of Salmon a la Cardinal 1 lb. salmon, \ oz. butter, \ pint well-reduced Bechamel, 1 white of egg, lobster coral, 2 truffles. Seasoning, Cardinal sauce. Skin and bone the salmon, pound in a mortar until quite fine, add gradually the reduced Bechamel sauce and the white of egg. Season with pepper, salt, and a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Put through a fine wire- or hair-sieve and keep on the ice until wanted. Butter a number of small dariole or timbale moulds, decorate the bottom and sides of each with fancifully cut slices of truffles, sprinkle all over the inside with finely chopped dried lobster coral. Fill them with the salmon force-meat, steam for twenty-five minutes, dish up on a hot dish, and serve with sauce Cardinal.I 20 THE MODERN COOK Water Souchet of Crimped Salmon Perfection in the preparation of this dish can only be attained by using the fish a few hours after it is caught. Moreover, those en- gaged in catching the fish should be instructed to cut it into slices half an inch thick, and to keep it in very cold water for a couple of hours or so, when, as is well known, the salmon will acquire that degree of firmness peculiar to all crimped fish. • Place four or five slices of salmon in a stew-pan with some shred parsley roots previously boiled for the purpose, and also the water they have been boiled in, some picked parsley leaves, mignonette pepper, and sufficient salt to season it; moisten with some essence of fish, which should be made either from the inferior pieces of the salmon or else with two or three flounders or any other small flat fish. Let the water souchet thus far prepared boil briskly until the salmon be done, which will require about six minutes. It should be served quickly, but just before sending to table you may add a little bright consomme. Many, however, prefer the latter omitted, considering that it diminishes the sweetness of the crisp creamy salmon. Note.—With all water souchets thinly cut slices of brown bread and butter should be served. Water Souchet of Plain Salmon Trim and fillet three or four pounds of plain salmon; place the fillets neatly side by side in a stew-pan, and put them by till dinner- time. Meanwhile prepare the water-souchet broth as follows:—Put the trimmings of the salmon into a stew-pan with carrot, celery, and parsley roots, the whole sliced up. Add a little mignonette pepper and salt, and a glass of French white wine; fill up with one and a half pints of water or weak broth, allow it to boil, and then set it by the side of the stove to continue gently boiling for half an hour; then strain the souchet off through a napkin on to the fillets of salmon, set them to boil briskly on the fire for about five minutes, add the shred parsley roots and picked parsley leaves, and when the whole has boiled together for three minutes, serve the water souchet in a deep silver dish or small soup-tureen. Trout a la Meuniere 3 to 4 small trout, 3 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful anchovy essence, 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, 1 tea- spoonful vinegar, pepper and salt. Scale the fish, draw it and wipe it with a damp cloth. Season with pepper and salt. Melt half the butter in a sauffi-pan, put in the fish (previously floured), and cook over a moderate fire till the fish is done; the trout must be turned frequently during the process of frying. Take up the fish and dish up. Now add the remainder of butter to the butter in which the fish was cooked, let it acquire a nut-brown colour (do not let it get black), then add the anchovy essence, stir well over the fire, and gradually mix in the lemon juice and theDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL I 2 I vinegar. Lastly, add the chopped parsley then pour the whole over the prepared fish, and serve the dish very hot. Note.—Soles, whole or cut fillets, are served in the same way. Trout a 1’ltalienne Clean and wash three or four small trout. Boil them in salt and water, take off the skins, glaze, and place on a dish; then mask with one pint of Italian sauce in which has been mixed a pat of anchovy butter, a very little nutmeg, and lemon juice. Garnish with ten or twelve quenelles of whiting. Trout a la Gasconne Boil and dish up the trout as directed in the foregoing recipe, and pour round it one pint of sauce a la Gasconne (see p. 17). Garnish with fillets of soles prepared as paupiettes (for which see p. 159), and between each paupiette place a group of crayfish tails that have been tossed in a little glaze, and some pounded lobster coral. Trout a la Chevaliere Boil, skin, and trim one or more trout, and cover them all over with some d’Uxelles or Papillotte sauce: when the sauce, by getting cold, has become set on the trout, roll them in very fine bread- crumbs, and afterwards egg them over and roll them again in the bread-crumbs, in which Parmesan cheese has been mixed in the pro- portion of one-third ; place the trout on a buttered baking-sheet, and, about half an hour before dinner, first sprinkle them over with a gill of melted fresh butter, and then put them in the oven to be baked to a fine light-brown colour. Dish them up and sauce round with the following ragout:—Reduce a glass of dry champagne or Sauterne with half a gill of essence of mushrooms down to one-fourth part, then add half a pint of Allemande sauce, incorporate with it a pat of anchovy butter, a little lobster coral, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon juice; sauce the trout round, and garnish with a border of small fillets of soles that have been contises, one half with truffles, and the remainder with tongue, and then turned round in the shape of half- moons, and simmered in a little butter, salt, and lemon juice. Send up some of the sauce in a boat. Trout au Gratin Parboil one or two trout sufficiently to remove the skin, and, when trimmed, place them on a buttered sautd-pan; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over them a good teaspoonful of chopped parsley, twice that quantity of chopped mushrooms, and one chopped shalot; add a gill of finished brown sauce, and a glass of sherry. Half an hour more or less before sending to table, according to the size of the fish, put the trout thus prepared into the oven to bake, taking care to baste it every five minutes; when done, put the trout out on a dish, reduce the sauce if necessary, incorporate in it a pat of anchovy butter, add a squeeze of lemon juice, and pour the sauce over theTHE MODERN COOK 122 trout; then shake some baked bread-crumbs bruised fine over the whole, replace the fish in the oven for five minutes, and then send to table. Trout a l’Aurore Boil and trim one or more trout, mask them over with some re- duced Allemande sauce, put them on a silver dish, and then place a wire-sieve over the trout; rub the yolks of one or more eggs boiled hard through the sieve with a wooden spoon on the fish, taking care that the curling shreds which fall through the sieve cover the sur- face of the trout equally. About half an hour before dinner, put the trout in the oven to get coloured to a fine amber hue; pour round some Aurora sauce (see p. n), and garnish with a border of mussels fried in batter. Trout in Cases with Fine Herbs Procure as many small trout as may suffice for a dish, clean, par- boil, trim, and place them each in a separate paper case previously oiled, and then baked for five minutes for the purpose of hardening the paper to enable it to contain the sauce; add to each trout a small gill of Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5); put them in the oven twenty minutes before dinner-time to bake, and when done, dish them up and send to table with some of the sauce in a boat. Trout a la Royale Clean and draw a fine trout, stuff it with some quenelle force- meat of whiting, stew it in a little Chablis wine, a few mushrooms, parsley, one shalot, thyme, and a bay-leaf, six peppercorns, and a blade of mace; when done, remove the skin, glaze, and put it on its dish to keep hot till required for dishing up. Then strain the liquor in which the trout has been stewed, reduce it to half glaze, add to it a gill of Supreme sauce, work in a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne pepper, and lemon juice, and then pour the sauce into a stew-pan containing six small quenelles of whiting and one dozen button-mushrooms. Allow the whole to boil together for a few minutes, sauce the trout, and garnish round with a border of croustades of quenelle of whiting, poached, bread-crumbed, and fried. Broiled Trout with Dutch Sauce Split a trout at the back, oil it over, season with pepper and salt ; just before dinner-time, broil it, and send it to table with some Dutch sauce (see p. 11) in a boat separately. Fillets of Trout a la Savoie 3 small trout, 1 glass Chablis, 2 oz. butter, f lb. fish farce (white), 12 small oysters, 18 champignons (heads only), duchess potato puree for border, x egg yolk, seasoning, £ pint sauce au vin blanc (white wine sauce), ^ gill well-reduced Tomato sauce blended with lobster spawn.123 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Remove the fillets from the trout and skin them, then trim each neatly and place them in a well-buttered saute-pan; season with salt and pepper, add the wine and some mushroom, i.e. champignon, liquor; cover with buttered paper and poach in the oven; allow about fifteen minutes to cook. Prepare a neatly-shaped border with the potato puree, force same on to an oblong silver-plated dish, brush over with egg yolk, and bake to a golden brown. Butter twelve small shell moulds, and fill each with fish farce with a bearded oyster in the centre of each ; poach them in the oven in the usual way. Reduce the white sauce with the liquor from the trout and oysters, strain and reheat, and enrich if found necessary with a little cream or egg yolk; season to taste. Dress the fillets round the inside of the prepared border close to the edge, in the centre range the poached oyster quenelles and champignons’ heads, previously tossed in butter, then sauce over the whole carefully with white sauce. The Tomato sauce must be reduced with the lobster spawn almost to a puree and put in a cornet; with this force out a trellis-work pattern on top of the white sauce. The dish is then ready to serve. In addition to the different methods given here for dressing trout, this kind of fish may be prepared in every variety of form and style in which salmon is sent to table. STURGEON Sturgeon a la Beaufort Choose six to eight pounds of prime cut of sturgeon, braise it for two and a half to three hours in a mirepoix moistened with sherry, or with ordinary stock and a little brandy. When the fish is done, drain it and put in the larder to cool; then mask it all over with a coating of quenelle force-meat of whiting. Place some fillets of soles previously contises with truffles crosswise along the back of the sturgeon, allowing the space of an inch to intervene between each fillet of sole, which spaces are to be filled up by the insertion of crayfish tails, trimmed and secured by being stuck into the force- meat in close rows; then cover the fish with very thin layers of fat bacon, place it on a drainer, and put it in the braiser with a little of the mirepoix in which it has been braised. About an hour before dinner-time, put it in the oven or on a slow fire, and after the fish has simmered gently, without boiling during the time allotted, take it out of the braise upon the drainer, and after removing the layers of bacon, slide it off the drainer on to its dish; sauce it round with a rich Matelote sauce made with Sauterne wine, add also some of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been braised; garnish round with alternate groups of the soft roes of mackerel (cut in halves, blanched, and fried in batter) and some dessertspoon quenelles of lobster. Sturgeon a la Cardinal Procure a prime cut of sturgeon, weighing about six pounds; remove its skin in the following manner :—Place the piece of sturgeon124 THE MODERN COOK on the kitchen table lengthwise before you, so as to have a command on either side; then take a long thin-bladed knife, insert its point immediately between the flesh and skin, run the knife right up, keeping close to the back fin, and minding that the edge of the knife be kept to the left; press with the palm of the left hand on the skin of the fish, drawing the knife to and fro, so as to sever the skin from the flesh; and after effecting this on one side, repeat it on the other. Replace the skin over the sturgeon, and fasten it on with a string in order to preserve the colour of the fish, at the same time taking care to give shape and appearance to the sturgeon. Then put it into a fish-kettle or braising-pan on the drainer belonging to it, moisten with a good wine mirepoix, and set it to braise with fire under and over. If the quality of the sturgeon be good, about two and a half hours’ gentle boiling will suffice to braise it; the fish must be well basted with its liquor every now and then. When the sturgeon is done, take it up, remove the skin, drain, and afterwards mask it with some stiff glaze, in which has been mixed some pounded lobster coral in sufficient quantity to give the sturgeon a bright scarlet colour ; form on its centre a palm or star with some contises fillets of soles. Ornamental skewers may be used, but are not strictly essential; they should each be garnished with a large truffle, crayfish, mush- room, quenelle, and truffle. Pour some Cardinal sauce (see p. 13) round it, garnish with a border of tails of very small lobsters and alternate groups of small quenelles of whiting, button-mush- rooms, and truffles. Sturgeon a la Genoise Prepare the sturgeon as in either of the foregoing recipes, and after having glazed and dished it up, pour some Genoise sauce (see p. 9) round it; garnish with a border of large crayfish, and serve. Sturgeon a la Dauphine Pare off the whole of the skin of a prime cut of sturgeon, weighing about four to six pounds; garnish the inside to its full extent with some quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some chopped and simmered fine herbs; set the sturgeon to braise in some wine mirepoix; when done, drain it and put it to cool in the larder, after which cover it well over with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce, and when the sauce has cooled upon the fish, bread-crumb it in the usual manner, drop a little clarified butter over it through a straining-spoon, put it on a drainer into a deep baking-dish, and set it in the oven to be baked to a light colour. Then place it on a dish, sauce with Sturgeon sauce (see p. 14), garnish with an outer row of quenelles of gurnets mixed with some chopped and blanched parsley, and garnish the inner circle with alternate groups of thin scallops of lobster (tossed in a little lobster-coral butter to render them of a bright scarlet colour) and some button-mushrooms. Stick on four ornamental hatelets or silver skewers, garnished each with a large truffle, quenelle, and mushroom.DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 125 Sturgeon a la Perigord Prepare three to four pounds of sturgeon as in the preceding recipe, but instead of bread-crumbing it, glaze and dish it up; sauce it with a good Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), in which has been mixed some of its own liquor boiled down to glaze, a pat of anchovy butter, and a little lemon juice; garnish with a border of truffle croustades made as follows :— Choose six to eight large truffles of equal size, boil them in some wine mirepoix, cut a piece from the top of the thickness of a penny piece, scoop out the inside of the truffles, and cut the produce into thin scallops, which, after mixing with a little of the sauce, replace in the truffles; cover them with some small fillets of soles contisds with some red tongue, and turned round in the shapes and size of half-a- crown piece, and simmered in a little butter. Send up some of the sauce to table in a boat. Sturgeon a la Bourguignote Stuff and braise the sturgeon according to the foregoing directions, trim, glaze, and dish it up; then pour some Bourguignote sauce (see p. 8) round it, garnish with groups of mushrooms, glazed button- onions, small quenelles, and crayfish tails. Send some of the sauce to table in a boat. Sturgeon a l’Indienne Braise the sturgeon in some wine mirepoix, take about a pint of ■ the liquor, reduce and mix it in two tablespoonfuls of Indian Curry sauce (see p. 12) prepared for the purpose, add a pat of anchovy butter and some lemon juice, sauce the sturgeon, and garnish it round with a border of rice croustades filled with curried prawns or shrimps; ornament it with four Mtelets, each garnished with a large crayfish and a contise fillet of sole. Send up, as usual in such cases, some of the sauce in a boat. Sturgeon au Gratin with Fine Herbs This method of dressing sturgeon is useful when a sufficient remnant is left from the previous day’s dinner. In such a case cut two to three pounds of sturgeon into neatly trimmed scallops, and toss these in some reduced Allemande sauce incorporated with some of the essence of the sturgeon—previously boiled down to glaze; add one teaspoonful of fine herbs, lemon juice, a little grated nutmeg, and half a pat of anchovy butter ; mix the whole well together; put the scallops on a silver dish, piled up in the form of a dome; cover them with some fried bread-crumbs mixed with one-third part of grated fresh Parmesan cheese. About twenty minutes before dinner- time, place the dish in the oven to gratinate the scallops; pass the red-hot salamander over them to melt the cheese; pour round some of the sauce reserved for the purpose ; garnish with some croquettes of sturgeon, lobster, or potatoes, and send to table.THE MODERN COOK 126 Sturgeon a la Russe Braise three to four pounds of sturgeon as usual, either in some wine mirepoix or merely in vinegar and water when economy is an object. When the sturgeon is done, take off the skin, trim, and mask it with some stiff glaze mixed with some pounded lobster coral; ornament it on the centre with some small fillets of gurnet contises with green gherkins,-—previously placed in a buttered saute-pan, in the shape of half-moons and simmered in a little butter,—at each end place a row of trimmed olives; pour round it some rich Genoise sauce (see p. 9) finished with a good piece of' lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, two teaspoonfuls of capers, some trimmed olives, and one dozen crayfish tails. Sturgeon a 1’Anglaise Trim and skin a fine piece of sturgeon weighing four to six pounds, line the inside with some well-seasoned ordinary veal-stuffing; replace the skin and secure it with string; put the sturgeon on a drainer in the fish-kettle; garnish with carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, mace, peppercorns, and six cloves, a dessertspoonful of trimmings of mushrooms, and a little salt; moisten with a glass or two of wine or a little stock ; cover with a well-buttered paper, and set it on the fire to boil; then place it on a slow fire to stew gently till it is done. Next drain, trim, and glaze it; place it on a dish and keep warm until dinner-time. Meanwhile take some of the liquor in which the sturgeon has been Stewed, with a glass of good port wine, and boil the whole down to half glaze, and add it to a good gill of finished Espagnole or brown sauce ; work in a pat of anchovy butter, and one pat of fresh butter, a little cayenne, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice; pour the sauce into a stew-pan containing a few button- mushrooms, scallops of lobster, and small quenelles of whiting coloured with some very fine chopped and blanched parsley; allow the whole to boil up for a minute on the stove ; sauce the sturgeon over with this ragout; garnish it round with a border of large crayfish, and serve. Sturgeon, in addition to the preceding modes of preparation, may be dressed similarly to salmon in all its varieties. COD-FISH Cod and Oyster Sauce Boil two and a half to three pounds of cod, whether it be crimped or plain, in boiling water, into which throw a handful of salt; as soon as the fish is done, drain it instantly, and place it on a dish with a clean wet napkin over it to keep it moist: just before dinner, take off the napkin and send the cod to table with a sauce-boat full of white Oyster sauce (see p. 13). Cod-fish is rarely dressed whole, as, in addition to its unwieldy size, the length of time required to boil so large a fish deprives it of flavour. _DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 127 Cod Stuffed and Baked Clean, trim, and stuff two to three pounds of cod with some well- seasoned veal-stuffing; make several deep incisions on either side, and place it in a deep baking-dish previously well spread with fresh butter; season with a little chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt; moisten with a glass of sherry and the liquor of one dozen oysters; then set the fish in the oven to bake; and every ten minutes, or oftener, baste it with its own liquor; when it is nearly done, sprinkle it over with some fine raspings of bread, and again put it in the oven for ten minutes longer. When the cod is baked, draw the strings out of it; place it on a dish, then pour a glass of sherry into the dish in which the cod has been baked, and also a gill of consomme—to detach the glaze from round the pan ; pass the whole through a tammy or fine sieve into a stew-pan ; add some brown sauce; reduce the white to a proper consistency ; work in a pat of anchovy butter, a little cayenne and lemon juice, beard the oysters, and add them to the sauce; pour it round the cod, and send to table. Cod a la Creme au Gratin is prepared in a similar manner to turbot la crhme au gratin (for which see p. 113). Crimped Cod and Oyster Sauce Put three or four crimped slices -of cod in boiling water con- taining a handful of salt, as before directed; as soon as it boils up again, set the fish-kettle by the side of the fire to continue boiling for about a quarter of an hour; when done, drain and dish up the fish. Send up to table with a boat of Oyster sauce (see p. 13). Slices of Cod a la Seville Wash and dry four ounces of Carolina rice; fry it in salad oil, drain it on a sieve, and afterwards put it into a large stew-pan; then cut three or four pieces of crimped cod, about four inches square, and fry them a golden colour in some salad oil, after which drain and place them on the rice. Next cut a Spanish onion into very thin slices, and fry these in some of the oil used for the fish; drain off the oil and add two large ripe tomatoes, from which the seeds have been squeezed; simmer the tomatoes and the onion together on the fire for five minutes, and pour the whole on the fish and rice; season with a pinch of cayenne, salt, and lemon juice; moisten with a pint of good broth; place a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid of the pan, and put the whole to bake in the oven. In about half an hour the fish and rice will be done. Take the pieces of cod out of the rice, place them on a dish, and stir the rice over the fire in order to mix it with the seasoning ; then put the rice on a silver dish, and place the pieces of cod-fish on it; sauce it round with some Mussel sauce (see p. 13), and send to table. This is a favourite dish in Spain.THE MODERN COOK 128 Cod a Plndienne Trim one and a half pounds of cod in the shape of scallops ; keep them rather thick; place them neatly in a deep saute-pan with one ounce of butter; then moisten them with about half a pint of Indian Curry sauce (see p. 12) prepared for the purpose; cover with a stew- pan lid and set the fillets on a sharp fire to simmer; about twenty minutes will suffice to stew them ; then dish up the fillets—one over- laying the other—in the form of a circle; pass the sauce through a tammy or fine sieve, pour it over them, and send to table. Crimped Cod a la Hollandaise Trim and prepare three or four thin slices of crimped cod about half an inch thick. About an hour or two before dinner, sprinkle the slices of cod with salt; and ten minutes before sending to table, boil them quickly; as soon as done, dish them up, and send them to be eaten immediately with some delicately prepared Dutch sauce (see P- IJ)\ This method of preparing crimped fish is a favourite one in Holland; where, however, plain butter is taken with it, prepared as follows :— Put three or four ounces of butter in a small stew-pan, with a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, and lemon juice; then keep stirring it over a slow fire till the butter is sufficiently melted, taking care that it does not become oily. Crimped Cod a la Colbert Procure three or four very thin slices of crimped cod; egg and bread-crumb and fry themdish them up with some cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. 11) under them; then sauce them round with an essence prepared for the purpose as follows :— Put the trimmings of the fish cut into pieces into a small stew-pan, with a carrot, a sprig or two of parsley, thyme, mace, and pepper- corns ; moisten with a glass of white wine, and allow the whole to boil down to half; add half a pint of good consommd; set the essence to boil gently for half an hour; strain and reduce it down one-third, and use it as directed above. Crimped Cod a la Normande Place three or four thin slices of cod on a silver dish, previously spread with butter; season them with a little pepper and salt, and sprinkle some chopped parsley over them; moisten with a glass of French white wine and a gill of oyster liquor; cover with a buttered paper, and half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to poach, taking care to baste them occasionally. When the fish is done, pour the liquor there may be in the dish into a ragofit prepared for the purpose in the usual manner (see p. 45), and wipe the edges of the dish with a wet napkin; sauce the slices of cod over with the ragout, and garnish round with a border of fried smelts and large crayfish; place some glazed oval crofltons round the inner circle, and send to table.129 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Scallops of Cod a la Bechamel Cut and trim about one and a half pounds (middle cut) of crimped cod into five or six neat scallops; simmer them in a saute- pan with a little fresh butter and salt; when done, drain them on kitchen paper, and afterwards toss them gently in a stew-pan with a good gill of cream Bechamel sauce (see p. 3), dish them up, pyramidally, in the entree dish, and garnish round with a border of potato croquettes. To save time, or indeed as a variety, these scallops may also be prepared in the following manner :— Boil the slices, or piece of cod, drain them, and then break them gently into large flakes, which toss in some Bechamel sauce; dish up and garnish as directed above. Crimped Cod a la Maitre d’Hotel Steep four or five thin slices of crimped cod in a little oil, pepper, and salt; broil them on a gridiron rubbed with whitening, and when done, glaze them over very lightly; dish them up, and sauce them under and round with a well-seasoned Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11), and send to table. Baked Cod’s Head Clean and prepare a medium cod’s head. Fill the hollow of the gills with somej veal-stuffing; put the head into a deep baking-dish —season with pepper and salt, a chopped shalot, and a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley; moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of mushroom catsup ; put about one ounce of butter on the fish and place it in the oven to bake for twenty minutes, remembering that it must be frequently basted with its liquor, adding, if necessary, a little consomme for the purpose. After the cod’s head has been in the oven ten minutes, sprinkle it over with some grated raspings of bread, and when cooked, place it on a dish; then add a table- spoonful of brown sauce and half a glass of wine to the liquor in which the head has been baked, and allow the whole to boil down to the consistency of sauce; add a pat of butter, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies, and lemon juice; work the whole together, pour the sauce round the cod’s head, and send to table. HADDOCK AND COD’S SOUNDS Haddock a la Royale Bone and stuff a large haddock with some quenelle force-meat of whiting ; place on a baking-sheet with some pieces of butter; then season with a little pepper and salt, and bake for twenty minutes. After allowing the haddock to cool, cover it with a thin layer of quenelle force-meat of whitings, and place thereon some contises fillets of soles in a slanting direction; mask the head with a little of the force-meat, mixed with some pounded lobster coral, and form the eyes and mouth with truffles—placing over all a buttered paper. K.THE MODERN COOK i3° About half an hour before dinner, put the haddock in the oven to finish baking; just before serving, take off the paper, and with a clean napkin absorb all the grease and moisture there may be upon the fish; then carefully remove the haddock on to a dish, sauce round with some Parisian sauce (see p. n), and garnish with some quenelles of lobster, with a large scallop of truffle intervening between each quenelle, and send to table. Haddock Stuffed and Baked is prepared in the same manner as cods’ heads baked, previously described. Haddock baked may also be served with Poivrade, Piquante, Tomato, Italian, Oyster, Mussel, or Caper sauce. Haddocks a la Belle=Vue Skin two small haddocks ; truss them as you would whiting for frying, and put them into a baking-dish with a little butter; cover them with a layer of quenelle force-meat of whiting coloured with lobster coral; then place across their backs some fillets of soles contises with green gherkins, taking care to leave the space of an inch between each fillet, so as to insert some small truffles cut in the shape of olives ; over all place a buttered paper; moisten with a glass of white wine and a little stock if necessary, and put the haddocks in the oven to poach for about half an hour. Then remove the paper and bacon, and slip them with great care on to a dish ; sauce round with Ravigote sauce (see p. 19), and garnish with a border of quenelles of whiting in which has been mixed enough finely chopped parsley to colour them, and send to table. Broiled Haddock with Dutch Sauce To broil haddock in perfection, it is necessary, first, to wipe it well over, and then to score it with a sharp knife; next to steep it in a little salad oil, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before dinner, place the haddock on a gridiron which has been rubbed with whitening and broil ten to fifteen minutes; when done on both sides, dish it up and send some Dutch sauce (see p. n) to table in a boat. Haddock Boiled with Egg Sauce Boil a medium-sized haddock in salt and water for twenty to thirty minutes; when done, drain and dish up, and send to table with Egg sauce (see p. 20) in a boat. This fish, when plain boiled, may be sent to table with almost any kind of fish sauce. Fillets of Haddock & la Royale Fillet a nice large haddock; remove the skin by passing the knife under the fillet, so as to detach the tail end of the skin from the fish, then take a firm hold of the piece of detached skin, and inserting the knife with the edge of the blade turned from you, drawDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 13I the skin towards you, and keep moving the knife to and fro, at the same time pressing the blade firmly on the skin. Having thus removed the skin, cut each fillet into two or more smaller fillets, trim them neatly by paring off the rough edges; place them in a basin with a sliced shalot, some sprigs of parsley, a little oil, and lemon juice, and season with pepper and salt. About ten minutes before dinner, drain the fillets on a napkin, and afterwards dip each fillet separately in some light batter, and fry them to a light golden colour in some fat heated for the purpose ; when done, drain them on kitchen paper to absorb the grease; dish the fillets in the form of a wreath, lying shoulder to shoulder, pour in the centre some white Ravigote sauce (see p. 6), and send to table. Fillets of Haddock a la Marechale Prepare these in the same manner as fillets of turbot a la Marechale (see p. 114). Fillets of Haddock a l’ltalienne Fillet a medium-sized haddock, remove the skin, cut and trim them into smaller fillets; place these neatly in a saute-pan with one ounce of clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, squeeze a little lemon juice over them, sprinkle one teaspoonful of chopped parsley; over all place a round of buttered paper, and put them in the oven or on a moderate fire to simmer for about ten minutes; then drain the fillets on clean paper, and afterwards dish them up in the form of a wreath, one fillet resting on the other, and pour half a pint of Italian sauce (mixed with a pat of butter, a teaspoonful of anchovy and lemon juice) over them, and send to table. By varying the sauce, fillets of haddock prepared in the above manner are named according to the sauce employed ; as, for instance, k la Ravigote, h la Maitre d’Hotel, it la Hollandaise, etc. Cod’s Sounds and Egg Sauce Preparatory to boiling cod’s sounds, it is absolutely necessary that they should be soaked in milk and water for at least six hours, and then washed and put to boil in a stew-pan containing fresh milk and water; then continue gently boiling till they are done—about an hour will suffice for this. When done, drain them on a napkin, cut them into pieces about an inch and a half square, and put them into a stew-pan with a sufficient quantity of Egg sauce (see p. 20); toss the whole together over the fire, pile them up on a dish in a pyramidal form, garnish them round with neatly cut boiled parsnips, and send to table. Cod’s Sounds a la Ravigote Prepare and cut the sounds into pieces as directed in the pre- ceding recipe; toss them in some Ravigote sauce (see p. 19), dish them up, garnish round with a border of potato croquettes, and send to table.132 THE MODERN COOK Cod’s Sounds a la Qasconne Prepare the sounds as usual, steep them in two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of vinegar, a chopped shalot, and parsley, season with a little mignonette pepper; just before dinner, fry the sounds in batter, dish them up in the form of a wreath, pour under them some Gasconne sauce (see p. 17), and send to table. Cod’s Sounds a la Royale The sounds should be prepared and fried as in the preceding recipe; and afterwards dished up similarly, with white Ravigote sauce (see p. 6) poured under them, and sent to table. Cod’s sounds may also be dressed a la Poulette, a l’lndienne, a la Bechamel, a la Maitre d’Hotel in the same manner, of course substituting any of the above sauces for the Ravigote. SOLES, GURNETS, AND MACKEREL Fried Soles with Shrimp Sauce Medium-sized soles are preferable for frying, as when large in size and thickness they must necessarily remain a considerable time in the frying fat, and will thereby contract a strong flavour, as well as absorb a greater portion of the fat: they are also less likely to appear crisp, so essential a requisite in all fried fish. Clean one or more soles thoroughly, remove both skins, cut off the head trans- versely, and with a pair of large scissors trim away the fins close up to the fillets; then wash and wipe the soles dry, and roll them in a little flour; dip them first in some beaten egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs, and place the fish on a dish in a cool place until within twenty minutes of dinner-time; then fry them in some hot fat; when done, drain them on kitchen paper, and dish them up with some fried parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat full of Shrimp, Anchovy, Dutch, or Lobster sauce. Boiled Soles For boiling, crimped soles are preferable ; but when these are not to be obtained, choose large and thick fish. Trim and skin two good- sized soles, and rub them over with lemon juice; sprinkle over some salt, and place in boiling water for fifteen to twenty minutes; when done, dish them up, and send to table with a sauce-boat filled with Dutch, Lobster, Shrimp, Anchovy, or French Caper sauce. Water Souchet of Fillets of Soles Having filleted one or two soles and trimmed the fillets, take hold of each and fold one end over the other; batter the ends together with the handle of a knife, trim off any rough fragments that may remain about them, and place them in circular order in a saute-pan; then pour over them the souchet prepared in the usual manner with the bones and trimmings, etc. Let the fillets thus arranged boil for five or six minutes; ascertain that they are done, and serve them inDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL J33 a water-souchet dish with shredded carrot and parsley roots and leaves previously prepared for that purpose. Water souchets of fillets of trout, char, and indeed of almost every species of the more delicate kinds of fresh-water fish are made according to the foregoing directions. Soles a la Colbert Clean, skin, and trim two soles, wash and wipe them dry with a clean cloth; then egg and bread-crumb them over and fry them, after which cut them open at the back, and carefully take out the backbone; fill the inside with some cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. 11) j turn the soles on their backs in a dish, pour round them a little essence of anchovies (see p. 42), and serve them quite hot. Sole au Gratin Spread a little fresh butter on a silver gratin dish, and place one large sole, head and tail, on it; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle some chopped parsley over, and moisten with a glass of white wine and a little consommd; half an hour before dinner put in the oven to bake; when it has been in twenty minutes, take it out; and, after saucing all over with some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), shake some fine raspings of bread over the whole, and put the sole back in the oven to gratinate for a few minutes; just before sending to table pass the red-hot salamander over it, and serve. Soles with Fine Herbs Skin and trim one or more soles; put them in a buttered saute- pan ; sprinkle over them a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and one shalot; season with pepper and salt, and a little nutmeg, and moisten with a glass of white wine and a little con- somme ; cover them with a buttered paper, and set them in the oven to poach for fifteen to twenty minutes. When done, drain their liquor into a small stew-pan containing a gill of Allemande sauce ; add a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, a small piece of fresh butter, and lemon juice; work the whole well together on the fire; wipe the edges of the dish, and sauce the soles over; place round them a border of crofitons, and send them to table. Soles a la Parisienne Trim a pair of soles, slit them down the back, and take the bone out; stuff the soles with some quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some chopped fine herbs ; put them on a buttered baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine, cover with a buttered paper, and put them in the oven to poach. When done, put them in press between two dishes, and set them in the larder to cool. In the meantime, prepare some stiffly reduced Allemande sauce, with which, after neatly trimming the soles, cover them all over; and when the sauce has set firmly upon them, dip them in egg and then in bread-crumbs; fry them a golden colour,134 THE MODERN COOK dish them up, and garnish with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), place round them a border of large crayfish and glazed croutons, and send to table. Soles a la Marechale Bone a pair of soles, stuff them with quenelle force-meat of whiting, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and then fry the fish ; drain them on paper, dish them up, and sauce them round with some Venetian sauce (see p. 8), and serve. Matelote Normande of Sole Bone one fine sole; stuff it with quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some chopped fine herbs; place on a buttered baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, moisten with half a glass of French white wine, a gill of oyster liquor, and half a gill of essence of mushrooms; put in the oven to poach for twenty to thirty minutes, and when done, remove the sole carefully on to a dish. Reduce the liquor, incorporate it in a rich Matelote Normande ragofit (see p. 45), with which sauce the sole all over, and garnish round with a border of crayfish and some oval crofitons, then serve. Sole a la Plessy Bone, stuff, and bake a large sole, as described in the preceding directions, and when done, put in press between two flat dishes; as soon as the fish is cool, mask over with some quenelle force-meat coloured with lobster coral; smooth with the blade of a large knife dipped in hot water; then place the sole carefully on a silver dish, and after ornamenting the fish with a bold decoration,—composed of truffles,—moisten with a glass of French white wine, and put in the oven for about a quarter of an hour. Garnish round with a Parisian sauce (see p. 11); place round the Matelote a border of fried smelts, previously boned and stuffed with forcemeat, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Diana 2 small soles, prawn puree, grated cheese, 12 prawns, nouille paste, Veloute sauce, 1 oz. butter, 1 truffle or pimiento, 1 dessert- spoonful fresh caviare. Prepare a nouille paste made with six ounces of flour, one ounce of butter, one egg yolk, salt, and a little milk. Knead it well and roll out thinly; stamp out a number of ovals, and line with these the required number of oval-shaped, fluted patty pans (flat). Bake them in a cool oven for about ten minutes. Skin and fillet the soles; poach them in the oven in a well- buttered saute-pan with a little white wine, mushroom liquor, lemon juice, and seasoning. Take them up and let cool, then trim each fillet to the size of the oval paste crusts. Heat up the prawn pur£e, mix with caviare, and spread the bottom of each paste crust with it; upon this place the fillets of sole, one on each. Sauce over carefully with well-reduced Veloute sauce, besprinkle with grated cheese andDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL *35 oiled butter, and bake in a sharp oven for about five minutes. Decorate the top of each with a few fancifully cut slices of glazed truffle. Dish up tastefully and serve hot. Fillets of Soles a la Catalane Trim and pare eight to twelve fillets of soles, fold them neatly and place them in a sautd-pan containing one ounce of fresh butter, season with pepper and salt, and cook in the oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Prepare a puree of Jerusalem artichokes, season to taste, and form into a border placed in a hot dish ; dress the fillets upon this. Fill the centre with ckpes, previously tossed in butter and seasoned with salt and pepper. Sauce the fillets with a well-reduced Bechamel sauce (p. 3), into which a small quantity of whipped cream has been incorporated. Fillets of Soles a la Diocletien Fillets of soles, stuffed with fish quenelle force-meat, folded or rolled, and cooked in butter and sherry or Marsala wine, dressed in the form of a border or circle, garnished with small hearts of lettuces (braised) and very small fish quenelles (poached). Serve with a sauce composed of rich Espagnole, fish liquor, and finely chopped truffles. Fillets of Soles a la Marcelle Fillet two soles, trim them and spread over one side of each with champignon or d’Uxelle puree, fold them and poach in fish stock. Dress them on a round dish in border form, sauce over with Truffle sauce (see p. 7), garnish with Anna potatoes (see p. 468) in centre. Serve hot. Fillets of Soles, Whitebait Style Skin and fillet one large or two medium-sized soles; shred the fillets as finely as possible or cut them into fine strips the size of whitebait. Put them on a cloth, and sprinkle over with flour, shake well, and put them in a frying-basket. Heat up the fat, plunge the basket with about half the quantity of fish into the hot fat, and fry over a quick fire to a pale-golden colour. Take up, drain well, season with salt and cayenne, and proceed to fry the remainder of fish in exactly the same manner. Dish up on a lace paper or folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Fillets of Soles a la Normande This is done in the same way as above directed. The soles are folded and dished up in a row, one overlapping the other, and a mushroom-head placed on each fillet. The mussels and oysters are placed in groups round the sides of the fillets. Scallops are in some cases used as garnish, but only when mussels are not obtainable. If smelts are in season, this dish should be garnished with a few fried smelts in addition to the other garnishes.136 THE MODERN COOK Gurnets Stuffed and Baked Cut off the fins and head from one or more gurnets, stuff them with veal-stuffing, sew them up, and score them with a sharp knife on both sides; then place the gurnets in a buttered baking-tin, season them with pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and about one ounce of butter; moisten with a glass of sherry, one tablespoonful of essence of mushrooms, and half a gill of consomme, and put in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes, taking care to baste them every five minutes until they are done. Then remove the gurnet on to a dish; reduce the essence to a demi-glaze, and incorporate it into one of the following sauces with a pat of butter and a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies; pour the sauce over the gurnets and send to table. Either Piquante, Italienne, Gasconne, Provengale, Poivrade, Genoise, or Tomato sauce will suit this fish when prepared in the above manner. Gurnets a la Dauphine Cut off the heads and fins from one or more gurnets, boil them in water with a little salt and vinegar; when done, drain and skin them, then cover them with some stiffly reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3), and when this has cooled upon them, egg them over and cover with bread-crumbs, and place them on a buttered baking- sheet ; half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake, and as soon as they have acquired a golden colour, dish them up, and garnish round with some Ravigote sauce containing some crayfish tails, and send to table. Gurnets a la Genoise Boil or bake one or more gurnets in some mirepoix (see p. 57); drain, skim, glaze, and place them on their dish, and sauce them with Genoise sauce (see p. 9); garnish round with large crayfish, or quenelles of whiting or gurnet. Gurnets, either boiled or baked, may be sent to table with any kind of fish sauce; but as they do not possess any decided flavour of their own, sharp or Piquante sauce should be used in preference. Note.—Fillets of gurnets may be dressed in every variety of form, and served with any kind of sauce, similar to soles. Boiled Mackerel Boil the mackerel in salt and water, and keep below boiling point; dish it up, and send to table, either with Fennel, Parsley, or Gooseberry sauce. Broiled Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel Split the mackerel down the back, season with pepper and salt, and oil it over; then place it on a gridiron over a moderate fire for ten to fifteen minutes. When the mackerel is done on one side, turn it over on the other; and as soon as it is done through, take it up on a dish and put some cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. 11) inside it, or pour a well-finished Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11) round it, and send to table.DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL i37 Broiled Mackerel with Black Butter Sauce Broil the mackerel as directed in the last recipe, dish it up, garnish it with coarsely chopped parsley, and pour over it some Black Butter sauce (see p. 22). Fillets of Mackerel a la Maitre d’Hotel Fillet the mackerel thus:— Place the fish on the table with its back towards you, then run the knife in just below the gills, turn the edge of the blade under, press with the fingers of the left hand full on the upper end of the fillet, and bearing with the blade of the knife upon the side of the back- bone, draw the knife gently down to the tail, then turn the mackerel over and take the fillet off the other side; when this is done cut each fillet into two, trim the ends neatly, and place them side by side in a buttered baking-dish, season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley, squeeze the juice of half a lemon over them, and then pour a teaspoonful of oiled butter over each, and cover with a round of buttered paper. About twenty minutes before dinner, either put them in the oven or over the fire to simmer, and when done, drain the fillets, dish them up in the form of a wreath, the fillets resting upon each other ; sauce over with some Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11), and send to fable. The soft roes, if any, in the mackerel, should be parboiled in boiling water containing a little vinegar and salt; then drain them on a napkin, and place them in the centre of the fillets when dished up. Fillets of mackerel, prepared as described in the first part of the above directions, may be sent to table with either of the following sauces: Vertpr£, Ravigote, Italienne, or Gdnoise. DRESSED MULLETS, Etc. Mullets in Cases with Fine Herbs Scale and trim four or five small mullets, place them in a buttered baking-dish; season with a little pepper and salt, cover them with a good gill of Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5), and moisten with a glass of sherry or white wine. About half an hour before dinner (the exact time depending on the size of the fish), put the mullets in the oven to bake, occasionally basting them with their own liquor. When done, put each of them separately in an oblong paper case saturated with oil, and then lightly browned in the oven ; add a glass of wine to the sauce remaining in the baking-tin, shake it about to detach the glaze from the sides, and then mix the whole with another gill of Fine Herbs sauce reserved for the purpose; reduce the whole, mix in a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and the juice of half a lemon ; add a good teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, sauce the mullets over in their cases, dish them up, and send to table. Mullets may be dressed with fine herbs also in the following138 THE MODERN COOK manner:—Trim and place the mullets on a buttered baking-dish, season with pepper and salt, strew over them a dessertspoonful of chopped mushrooms, shalot, and parsley; moisten with a glass of sherry and a tablespoonful of brown sauce; bake and finish them exactly in the same manner as previously directed. Mullets a l’ltalienne Trim and prepare three or four mullets, put them in a buttered baking-tin, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a glass of French white wine and half a gill of essence of mushrooms; bake the fish for about fifteen minutes, taking care to baste them frequently while in the oven; when done, dish them up, and mask them over with some glaze mixed with some finely pounded lobster coral; sauce them round with half a pint of Italian sauce (see p. 5) in- corporated with the liquor in which the mullets have been baked, after it has been reduced, also a few drops of essence of anchovy, a small pat of butter and lemon juice, and send to table. Mullets a la Genoise Prepare the mullets in a baking-tin as before mentioned, moisten with a glass of claret and half a gill of essence of mushrooms; when the mullets are baked, glaze them with some lobster-coloured glaze, and dish them up. Then reduce the liquor in which the mullets were baked, and incorporate it with some Genoise sauce (see p. 9), together with a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon juice; sauce the mullets round, garnish with a border of large crayfish or quenelles of whiting, and send to table. Mullets au Ragofit Cardinal Prepare the mullets as h. l’ltalienne, dish them up after being glazed to a fine scarlet hue ; garnish them round with a rich Cardinal ragout (see p. 46); finish by placing a border of large crayfish or decorated quenelles of whiting round them, and send to table. Mullets a la Chesterfield Trim the mullets as before and put them into a buttered baking- tin with a glass of dry champagne, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, and a little pepper and salt; bake them in the oven, taking care to baste them frequently; when done, glaze and dish them up, reduce their liquor, and add it to some bisque of Crayfish sauce, previously prepared as follows :— Thoroughly wash and draw the gall from a dozen crayfish, put them into a stew-pan with half a carrot and half a stick of celery cut up small, one shalot, half a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some parsley; moisten with nearly half a pint of good stock or consomme ; boil the crayfish, and when done, remove the shells from the claws and tails carefully. Next pound the bodies, tails, and claws in the mortar, take up the mixture into a stew-pan, moisten with a tablespoonful of good Allemande sauce, and after warming the puree over the fire, rub it through a tammy or fine sieve in the usualDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL i39 manner, remembering that it must be kept sufficiently thick to be able to mask the fish with it. Then reduce the liquor in which the mullets and crayfish have been cooked to half-glaze, and incorporate a sufficient quantity of it with the bisque to give it flavour ; add a pat of butter, a few drops of essence of anchovies and lemon juice ; pour the sauce over the mullets, and garnish them round with a border of quenelles of whiting coloured with chopped and blanched parsley. Note.—Mullets should never be drawn; it is sufficient to take out the gills only, as the liver and trail are considered the best parts of this fish. Grey Mullets should be dressed in the same manner as red mullets; they are sometimes plain boiled or broiled, and sent to table with any of the various fish sauces in use: but this fish, from its want of flavour, requires most skilful cookery. The Grayling is seldom seen in the London market, although it certainly deserves to be better known; when dressed in the manner described for the preparation of mullets or whitings it will be found very acceptable. This fish is in season in the months of October and November. Whiting Poult, which in shape somewhat resembles perch, and in colour is like the whiting, having when fresh much of its silvery hue, is found to be in best condition during the months of November and December, although they are sometimes taken in the spring of the year. Partaking in a great measure of the same character as the grayling, it should, like that fish, be prepared for table in a similar manner to red mullets. The same method is also to be used in dressing gwynniad, a species of lake fish commonly found in Wales, Cumberland, and some parts of Ireland and Scotland. Fillets of Whitings a la Maitre d’Hotel Fillet three or more medium-sized whitings, cut each fillet in two, trim the ends neatly round, and place the fillets side by side in a buttered baking-dish; season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over them some chopped parsley, a little melted fresh butter, and squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over them; cover with a buttered round of paper, and set them in the oven or on the fire—from five to seven minutes will suffice to cook them; then take the fillets up carefully, drain and afterwards dish them up in the form of a close circle, pour some Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11) over them, and serve. Note.—Fillets of whitings thus prepared may be sent to table with any of the following sauces : Italian, Ravigote, Shrimp, Fine Herbs, Crayfish, Dutch sauce, Supreme, with Scallops of Lobster, or Oyster sauce; the dish is named according to the sauce used for the fillets. Fillets of Whitings a I’Orly Fillet two or three medium-sized whitings, and remove the skin from each by first placing the fillet on the table, with the skin down- wards, then inserting the point of the knife between the skin and the flesh; bearing lightly with the left hand on the filler, gradually draw the knife under so as to separate the skin from the fish withoutjqo THE MODERN COOK wasting its flesh : having thus trimmed the fillets, next put them into a deep dish with pepper and salt, thyme and bay-leaf, a shalot cut into slices, and some sprigs of parsley; add two tablespoonfuls of oil and one of French vinegar, and after the fillets have been steeped for about a couple of hour's, drain them on a napkin, dip them thoroughly in flour, and fry them to a light-brown colour; dish them up in a pyramidal form with some fried parsley, and serve up with the fish a sauce-boat of either of the following sauces: White or Brown Italian, Tomato, Poivrade, Dutch, Ravigote, or Gasconne. Fillets of Whitings a la Marechale Trim the fillets of two or more whitings, as in the previous recipe; cut each in two, trim the pieces neatly, and place them separately on a large dish. Then mask each fillet with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, first seasoning the fillets with pepper and salt; when the sauce has stiffened on them, dip each fillet in some very fine bread-crumbs, afterwards in beaten egg, and then in bread-crumbs again ; smooth and shape the fillets with the blade of a knife, and as each is finished off, place it with care in a frying- basket. Twenty minutes before dinner, set the fillets on a brisk fire to fry in clean hot fat to a golden colour; remove them on to paper in order to absorb the fat; then dish them up in the form of a wreath, and sauce them in the centre with some Dutch sauce—with the addition of an infusion of horse-radish in French vinegar, or some shrimps, oysters, mussels, prawns, crayfish, or merely some chopped and blanched parsley, according to taste or convenience. Fillets of Whitings a la Royale Trim and marinade the fillets of one or more whitings in the manner directed for preparing whitings a l’Orly (see p. 139). About twenty minutes before dinner, drain the fillets on a napkin, and then dip each fillet separately in some frying batter, and throw them one after another into some frying fat heated for the purpose; as soon as they are done, and have acquired a golden colour, take the fillets out of the fat on to paper to absorb any grease they may retain; then dish the fillets up either in a pyramidal form, or else in a circle, and pour some white Ravigote, white Italian, Venetian, or Dutch sauce under and round them, and send to table. Boiled Whitings Trim three or four small whitings and boil them in water with a little salt—about ten to twelve minutes will suffice to cook them ; take the fish out of the water when done, put them on a dish covered with a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following sauces: Anchovy, Shrimp, Plain Butter, or Dutch. Fried Whitings To prepare whitings for frying, it is necessary first to skin them as follows :— With a cloth in the left hand, take a firm hold of the whiting atDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 141 the back part of the head, just below the gills, then loosen the skin on each side of the fish, just at the commencement of the upper dorsal fin, by inserting the point of a small knife, and with the right hand pull the skin off sharply, first on one side and then on the other. When the fish is skinned and trimmed, turn the tail round into its mouth and fasten tightly; dip each fish into some beaten egg, and cover it with fine bread-crumbs. A quarter of an hour before dinner, fry them a golden colour in some fat heated for the purpose, dish them on a fancy paper with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following sauces: Anchovy, Dutch, Shrimp, or Plain Butter. Broiled Whitings Trim and score the whitings on both sides, rub them over with oil, and boil them on a gridiron previously rubbed with whitening; when broiled on one side, turn them over on the other, taking care to keep them a light colour; when done, dish them, and send to table with a boatful of either of the following sauces : Dutch, white Ravigote, Venetian, brown Oyster sauce, or Maitre d’HStel. Note.—Whitings in cases with fine herbs, stuffed and baked H la Villeroi, a la Cardinal, etc., are dressed in the same manner as mullets. CHAR, LAMPREY, EELS, AND CARP Char is in season from July till October, and forms a most, delicious variety for the table in the summer season. When perfectly fresh, it makes perhaps the best water souchet of any fish.1 Char a la Genoise Boil one or more of the fish in salt and water, and when done, skin and glaze them; dish them up, sauce with some Genoise sauce (see p. 9), garnish with a border of small quenelles of whiting, and crayfish tails, and send to table. Char in Matelote Trim the char intended to be dressed, place them in an oval stew-pan with an onion and carrot cut in thin slices, also a bay-leaf and a sprig of thyme, a few sprigs of parsley and a blade of mace, a few peppercorns, some parings of mushrooms, and a little salt; moisten with a little stock or claret, and set the whole to stew gently for about twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the size <jf the fish. As soon as the fish are done, drain them on a wet napkin ; remove their skin with a knife, and place them neatly on the dish. Then reduce the liquor in which the char have been stewed (after first being strained and skimmed) with half a pint of brown sauce ; when the sauce is reduced, add a little nutmeg, a pat of butter, and some lemon juice, and pass it through a tammy or sieve into a stew- 1 Water Souchet is described on page 120.THE MODERN COOK 142 pan containing either a few prepared button-mushrooms, button- onions, or very small quenelles of whiting; warm the ragout, pour it over and about the char, garnish the matelote with a border of croutons, and serve. Char a la Hollandaise Boil the char in salt and water, dish them up on a napkin, and send to table with a boatful of Dutch sauce. Char, thus plain boiled, may also be sent to table with Parsley and Butter, green Ravigote, or Crayfish sauce. Char a la Beaufort Place the char when trimmed in an oval stew-pan with sliced carrot and onion, a few sprigs of parsley and a blade of mace, mush- rooms, peppercorns, thyme, bay-leaf, and salt; moisten with a glass or two of French white wine, and set the fish to stew gently on the fire. When done, drain them on to a napkin, skin and mask them with some glaze mixed with some pounded lobster coral, place them on their dish, and sauce them round with half a pint of Parisian ragout (see p. 46) mixed with the liquor in which the char has been stewed, after this liquor has been reduced to glaze; garnish with a border of lobster croquettes. Lamprey en Matelote To wash lampreys1 it is necessary to put them into a large earthenware vessel with plenty of salt, with which they should be well scoured and afterwards thoroughly washed in several waters; by this means they are freed from the slimy mucus which adheres to this kind of fish. The lampreys should then be trimmed and cut into pieces about two inches long, or they may be left whole, according to taste ; they should be placed in a stew-pan with sliced carrot and onion, mace, peppercorns, thyme, and bay leaf, parsley, mushrooms, and salt ■ moisten them with a glass of port wine, and set the whole to stew gently on the fire. When done, take half the liquor in which the lampreys have been stewed, and reduce it with half a pint of brown sauce ; add a glass of port wine, and as soon as the sauce is reduced to a proper consistency, incorporate with it a pat of butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon juice, and pass it through a tammy or fine sieve into a bain-marie containing some button- mushrooms and stewed small button-onions. Drain the lampreys, place them on a dish, sauce them over with the ragoht, and send to table. 1 Of this kind of fish there are two different varieties in general use for the table ; one being the sea or marine lamprey, which is abundant at Gloucester and Worcester, where it is dressed and preserved for the purpose of being given as presents. The other, the lampern, is much smaller ; this is to be found in the Thames, and may easily be obtained at any of the London fishmongers from the month of October till March, at which period they are in season. The lamprey is considered to be in best condition during the months of April and May, when it ascends the Severn from the sea for the purpose of depositing its spawn.DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL M3 Lamprey a la Foley Take a fine lamprey, clean it thoroughly and form into a circular shape, and fasten with string; then stew in a gill of claret or stock with the addition of vegetables, etc., as in the previous recipe. As soon as the lamprey is done, reduce two-thirds of the liquor with an equal proportion of brown sauce, and half a gill of essence of mush- rooms ; when sufficiently reduced, incorporate with this some crayfish butter and a little essence of anchovies, a very little nutmeg, lemon juice, and cayenne, and pass the sauce through a tammy or sieve into a bain-marie containing eighteen crayfish tails and as many button-mushrooms—previously prepared for the purpose. Then drain the lampreys, and afterwards place them, one resting on the other, in the dish; sauce them over with the prepared ragoftt; garnish round with a border of glazed crofitons. Lamprey a la Beauchamp Truss a lamprey as directed in the previous recipe, stew in old Madeira or a little cider, and the requisite vegetables, etc.; add two- thirds of the liquor to an equal quantity of good brown sauce, work the whole by boiling on the fire, skim and reduce it to its proper con- sistency, add a small part of lobster butter, cayenne, and lemon juice, and pass the sauce through a tammy into a bain-marie containing some small round truffles and tails of crayfish. Dish up the lamprey as in the last recipe, and sauce over with the prepared ragofit; garnish round with some glazed pastry fleurons, and send to table. Lamperns are treated in the same manner as lampreys, being ' similar in flavour. Fried Smelts When preparing smelts1 for frying, take the gills out carefully, trim the fins, wipe the fish with a clean cloth, dip them first in flour, and afterwards in beaten egg, and then in fine bread-crumbs; fry them in some heated fat to a golden colour; drain and dish them up on a fancy paper, and garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a boatful of either Anchovy, Dutch, Shrimp, Crayfish, or Lobster sauce. Smelts may also be dressed with advantage in Normande matelote, in cases with fine herbs, a l’ltalienne, k la Royale, etc., by observing the directions given for dressing mullets or whitings in a similar manner. Spitchcocked Eels As eels,2 when brought into the kitchen, are frequently alive, it is first necessary to kill them; this, from their tenacity of life, is found by many not easy to accomplish ; it is, however, merely necessary to 1 This kind of fish, which is in general estimation, is in season from August till March, when after depositing their spawn in fresh water, they return to the sea. 2 There are four distinct varieties of eels, the snig, the broad-nosed, the grig, and the sharp-nosed ; the latter is the kind generally known. The London markets are supplied principally from Holland. Thames eels are, however, in high repute ; being caught in a running stream, their skin is brighter and more silvery; they are pre- ferable, too, from their greater sweetness, to the Dutch cels.144 THE MODERN COOK insert the point of any sharp instrument into the spine, at the back of the head, to the depth of an inch, and the eel will become perfectly motionless. Then take a firm hold of the eel with a cloth in the left hand, and with the right hand proceed to detach the skin just below the gills with the point of a small knife; when there is a sufficient quantity of skin loosened, so as to gain a firm grip, hold the head firmly with the left hand, and with a cloth in the right, force the skin to slide off the fish. Then cut off the head, make an incision about two inches in length at the vent, and the same at the neck; draw the inside, trim away the fins, wash and wipe it with a cloth, and then, after sprinkling it with salt, let it lie on a dish for an hour or so previous to dressing it. After having trimmed the eel, lay it on its back in a straight line on the table, and with a knife, open it from one extremity to the other; detach the back-bone, and take it out; then cut the eel into several pieces about one and a half inches long, and season with pepper and salt; dip each piece of eel separately in some beaten egg, and afterwards in some fine bread-crumbs. Place the eel thus prepared on a dish in the larder until within twenty minutes of dinner-time; then proceed to fry it to a golden colour, garnish with fried parsley, and send to table. Either of the following sauces may be served in a sauce-boat with spitchcocked eels: Dutch, Italienne, Venitienne, Poivrade, Piquante, Tartare, Tomato, or Gasconne sauce. Broiled Eels Bone and cut one or more eels into one-and-a-half-inch lengths, put them on a dish, season with pepper and salt, lemon juice, and two tablespoonfuls of oil; twenty minutes before dinner broil them to a light-brown colour, dish them up with fried parsley, and send to table with either of the sauces named in the foregoing recipe, in a sauce-boat separately. Stewed Eels a l’Anglaise Skim and trim one or more eels, and cut into pieces about two inches long, place them in a stew-pan with a sliced carrot, onion, a sprig of parsley, bay-leaf, and thyme, a tablespoonful of mushroom trimmings, a few pepper-corns, four cloves, a blade of mace, and a little salt; moisten with two glasses of port wine, cover with a round of buttered paper, replace the lid on the stew-pan, and set the eels on the fire to stew. When they have boiled gently on the corner of the stove for about twenty minutes, they will be done: then drain and trim them, keeping their liquor to make the sauce; place the pieces of eel in a clean stew-pan, and then proceed to make a sauce for them in the following manner :—Put about an ounce of fresh butter into a stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as it is melted, add a tablespoonful of flour; with a wooden spoon stir them both together over the fire, until the roux, or thickening, becomes slightly coloured; then throw in a chopped shalot, and moisten gradually with the liquor in which the eels have been stewed, adding to it half a pint of good stock. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, and then pass it throughDRESSED FISH IN GENERAL 145 a tammy or strainer into the stew-pan containing the pieces of eel already mentioned. Just before sending to table, add a dozen prepared button-mushrooms, a pat of fresh butter, a dessertspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, lemon juice, and a very small quantity of essence of anchovy; toss the whole well together over the fire until well mixed; then dish the eels up in a pyramidal form on their dish, pour the sauce over them, garnish round with a dozen croutons of fried bread, and send to table. Eels a la Bordelaise Cut one or more eels into one-and-a-half-inch lengths, place in a stew-pan with sliced carrot, onion, a sprig of parsley, one or two mushrooms, thyme, and bay-leaf, mace, four cloves, and a few pepper- corns ; season with a little salt, and moisten with stock or claret. Set the eels to stew on the fire, and when done, drain, trim, and place them in a clean stew-pan with a little of their liquor to moisten them. Then put the remainder of the liquor into a stew-pan with half a pint of brown sauce, a teaspoonful of essence of mushrooms, and a glass of claret; let this boil, then set it by the side of the stove to continue gently boiling that it may throw up the scum and become bright. Then pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer into a bain-marie, and just before using it, make it hot, and incorporate with it the following preparation :—Mix a pat of butter with one anchovy, a teaspoonful of capers, a clove of garlic, and a little nutmeg; pound the whole together and pass them through a sieve; having well worked this into the sauce, pour it over the matelote, and dish up the latter as follows: Place the pieces of eel on the dish in circular order,—each piece resting on the other, with a glazed crouton of bread between,—fill the centre with quenelles of perch, and garnish round the inner edge of the dish with alternate groups of white mussels, button-mushrooms, and stewed button- onions. Matelote of Eel k la Parisienne Cut a good-sized eel into one-and-a-half-inch lengths, put them into a stew-pan with sliced carrot, etc.; moisten with a glass of French white wine, some essence of mushrooms, and a gill of the liquor produced by a dozen blanched oysters; stew the eel thus prepared; drain, trim, and put the pieces of eel into a clean stew- pan with a little of their own liquor to keep them moist and to warm them in. Put the remainder of the liquor into a stew-pan with a pint of white Veloute sauce and a glass of white wine ; reduce the whole quickly on the fire, incorporate therein a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a pat of butter, some lemon juice, and a little nutmeg; pass the sauce into a bain-marie containing the dozen oysters before alluded to, and some button-mushrooms. When about to dish up, first place upon the dish an oval piece of bread, about three inches high, cut in flutes all round and fried to a golden colour ; then set the pieces of eel in a perpendicular position up against the fried bread, garnish the croustade with a group of small quenelles of L146 THE MODERN COOK whitings, sauce with the ragout prepared for the purpose, garnish round with large crayfish and small fluted bread croustades, and send to table. Eel a la Genoise Cut an eel into one- or two-inch lengths, or truss in an oval or round shape; prepare it for stewing with the usual vegetables, etc., moisten with a glass of claret or Burgundy wine. When done, drain, trim, and glaze them with some lobster coral in the glaze; pile the eel up in a pyramidal group on a dish, sauce with some good Genoise sauce (see p. 9) made with the liquor in which the eel has been stewed; garnish round with alternate groups of button-mushrooms and crayfish tails, and send to table. Eel a la Dauphinoise Bone one eel, fill with force-meat of whitings mixed with some fine herbs; then sew the eel up with a large worsted needle and some coarse thread; truss in a circular form, place in an oval stew- pan with some mirepoix (see p. 57), and set it to stew on the fire, or in the oven, basting it frequently, and taking care that it is not allowed to boil fast. When the eel is done, glaze and dish it up; in the centre place a group of quenelles of whiting mixed with some chopped truffles, and sauce with some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the eel has been stewed in, and finish with a pat of anchovy butter and lemon juice. Garnish round with large crayfish, placing a group of two or three of the finest of these in the centre of the dish. Eel a la Venitienne Cut an eel into pieces two inches long, stew them in some mirepoix of French white wine; when done, drain, trim, and glaze them, and dish them up in two parallel conical groups; pour round them nearly a pint of Venetian sauce (see p. 8) which has been finished with the addition of half the mirepoix in which the eel has been stewed, a pat of anchovy butter, and the juice of half a lemon; pass this through a tammy or strainer into a stew-pan containing two dozen prepared button-mushrooms; a little blanched chopped parsley must be added the last thing. Garnish round with groups of mussels fried in batter, and serve. Eel a la Tartare Cut an eel into one-and-a-half-inch lengths, or truss whole in a circular form; place in a stew-pan with sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay leaf, and thyme, a few peppercorns and salt; moisten with a gill of vinegar and some water; then put on the fire to boil, and as soon as the pieces are done, set them to cool partially in their liquor; after which drain, trim, egg, and bread-crumb, and fry them to a golden colour, dish up with fried parsley, and send to table with some Tartare sauce (see p. 23) in a sauce-boat. Eels h la Tartare may also be bread-crumbed as follows :—Mix the beaten yolk of an egg and one ounce of fresh butter melted overi47 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL the fire, with pepper, salt, and nutmeg; with this preparation cover the eels, and afterwards bread-crumb them—causing plenty of bread- crumbs to adhere; put the eels on a buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle over a few drops of melted butter, and about half an hour before dinner, place them in the oven to be baked; dish them up as in the foregoing recipe, and send to table with the Tartare sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Eel a la Poulette Stew an eel in the usual manner with white wine or stock, or merely as directed for a la Tartare, then drain, trim, and place in a clean stew-pan with some of the liquor to keep it moist. Just before dinner, dish the eel up in the centre of the dish, sauce with some good sauce a la Poulette mixed with a pat of anchovy butter; place round them alternate groups of crayfish tails tossed in lobster butter to give them a brighter colour, and some scallops of perch tossed in some green Ravigote sauce; place eight glazed crofitons of fried bread round the base, and serve. Eels a I’lndienne Stew one or more eels as directed in the foregoing recipes, dish them up in the form of a circle, garnish the centre with plain boiled rice, sauce the eels with a good Curry sauce (see p. 21), and garnish round with some rice croquettes to be made as follows:— To three ounces of boiled rice add a dessertspoonful of good Allemande sauce, some nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese; stir the whole on the fire till it has boiled two or three minutes, and set it on a plate to cool; then mould the croquettes in the form of corks, pears, or round balls, egg and bread-crumb them in the usual way, fry them a light golden colour, and use them as directed. Eels stewed and glazed according to the different modes above described, as well as when bread-crumbed and fried or baked, may also be sent to table with the following sauces: Bourguignote, Tomato, Italian (white or brown), Cardinal, Normande, Matelote Ravigote, Provengale, Poivrade, Piquante, Aurora, or Crayfish sauce. Carp a la Chambord Choose a carp1 weighing about three or four pounds, and after scalding, drawing, and thoroughly washing the fish, stuff it with some quenelle force-meat of whitings. Then lay the carp on a buttered sheet of paper placed upon the drainer of an oval fish- kettle, cover the entire fish with a coating of force-meat of whitings, keeping the head clear, and with some “ contis^s ” fillets of soles 1 This fish is held in high estimation on the Continent, especially those caught in the Rhine and Moselle. In England they are seldom good, and this is the case also with tench, both these fish being found when cooked to taste muddy : this is chiefly owing to their being taken from stagnant ponds. Those only can be expected to be free from this disagreeable peculiarity that are caught in running streams. When about to clean carp for dressing, it is necessary to extract an angular substance, called the gall-stone, which is to be found at the back of the head ; if not removed, this is sure to impart a bitter taste, and render the best fish unfit for table.148 THE MODERN COOK form thereon a decoration resembling scales, but larger; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with a white wine mirepoix, and set it to braise gently on a moderate fire, carefully preventing it from boiling fast, as that would tend to displace the fillets, etc., with which the carp has been decorated. If the fish is of large size, it will require about three-quarters of an hour to braise it; when done, drain it from its liquor, remove the layers of fat bacon, etc., and place it on a large silver dish; garnish round the extremity of the inner edge of the dish with alternate groups of small quenelles of whitings, button-mushrooms, white mussels, and crayfish tails; sauce round the carp, without covering any part of it, with some Allemande incorporated with part of the liquor in which the fish has been braised, a pat of anchovy butter, and some lemon juice ; glaze the head of the carp, and send to table. Carp a la Royale Prepare a carp, wipe it with a clean cloth, and lay it on a buttered paper; place it upon the drainer of an oval fish-kettle, and cover it entirely with quenelle force-meat of whitings coloured with lobster coral; smooth the surface of the force-meat with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water; place some fillets of soles contises with green gherkins crosswise upon the carp, leaving the space of an inch between each fillet—these spaces are to be filled up by inserting in the force-meat some pieces of truffle cut in the shape of small olives; braise the carp, as in the former case, in a white wine mirepoix; when done, place it on a large oval dish, sauce it round with a Genoise sauce (see p. 9), and garnish it with a border of large quenelles of soles, half of which must be coloured with lobster coral and the remainder with chopped and blanched parsley; within the inner circle of the quenelles place alternate groups of prepared oysters and the tails of prawns, and send to table. Carp a la Bourguig-note Prepare and stew a carp whole in a little red wine; when done, drain and place it on an oval dish, sauce it with a rich Bourguignote sauce (see p. 8), garnish with soft roes and crayfish, and send to table. Carp a la Perigueux Prepare and stew a carp in a little wine, drain it, and dish it up; sauce it with Perigueux sauce incorporated with a pat of anchovy butter and some lemon juice; garnish with a border of lobster quenelles, and serve. Carp a la Proven^ale Prepare and stew a carp in a mirepoix of white wine; when done, drain and dish it up; pour some Proven^ale sauce over it, garnish with groups of mussels fried in batter and scallops of perch tossed in green Ravigote sauce, and send to table.149 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Carp a l’AIlemande Clean one or more carp, cut the fish into slices about two inches thick; place the slices in a basin, and season them with a gill of oil, a gill of tarragon vinegar, a quarter of a teaspoonful of mignonette pepper, and salt, bay-leaf, thyme, and shalot; let the carp steep in this marinade for two or three hours, till within about half an hour of dinner-time; then drain them and dip each piece separately in flour, and then in egg and bread-crumbs mixed with a teaspoonful of Parmesan cheese ; fry the pieces of carp to a golden colour, and dish them up on a napkin, placing the pieces so as to make the fish look whole ; surround the carp with a border of fried parsley and slices of lemon, and send to table with a sauce-boat containing some Butter sauce (see p. 17). Fried Carp a la Venitienne Stew one or more carp in a white wine mirepoix (see p. 57); drain them, and after removing the skin, proceed to mask them with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3) in which has been added some of the liquor the fish have been stewed in. When the sauce has cooled upon the carp, first strew over some bread-crumbs, then egg them over with a paste-brush, and cover them entirely with bread-crumbs mixed with a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese ; then place the carp in a buttered baking-dish or sheet, and half an hour before dinner put them in the oven to bake : they should be of a light-brown colour; set the fish on an oval dish, sauce round with some good Venetian sauce (see p. 8), garnish with quenelles of carp mixed with some puree of mushrooms, and send to table. Stewed Carp a l’Anglaise For dressing carp in this way see the directions for stewing eels a l’Anglaise (see p. 144). Small Carp, Fried Wash and scale two or more small carp, split them down the back, open them flat, season with pepper and salt, dip them in flour and immediately fry them a golden colour; dish them on a napkin, garnish round with fried parsley, and send to table with either Italian, Anchovy, or Dutch sauce separately in a sauce-boat. If preferred, the carp may be bread-crumbed for frying in the usual way. Tench, being somewhat similar to carp, may be dressed in the various ways in which that fish is prepared for the table with equal success; both these kinds of fish make excellent Matelotes, and, indeed, it is not unusual to prepare Matelotes of carp, tench, and eels all in the same dish. Tench may be sent to table either fried or boiled with Dutch sauce.T5° THE MODERN COOK PIKE, PERCH, Etc. Pike or Jack, Stuffed and Baked Scale, draw the gills, and thoroughly wash and wipe a pike; fill the paunch with well-seasoned veal-stuffing; sew it up with a trussing-needle and fine string, and either turn the tail round into the mouth, securing them together by means of string, or truss the pike into the shape of the letter S; make several deep incisions in a slanting direction on both sides of the fish, and place it in a baking- dish; season with pepper and salt, a little chopped parsley and mushrooms, and a chopped shalot, and from one to two ounces of fresh butter; moisten with a glass of sherry and a little good stock; cover with a well-buttered paper, and put the pike thus prepared in the oven to bake—taking care to frequently baste it with its liquor. When done, dish it up; add a little of the liquor to a pint of good brown sauce, reduce the whole to a proper consistency, and mix in an ounce of fresh butter, a little essence of anchovies, lemon juice, and a pinch of cayenne ; with this sauce mask the pike and send to ta^6' Pike a la Chambord The dish is prepared in a similar manner to carp a la Chambord (see p.147). This is also the case with pike k la Cardinal, ditto a la Royale, and ditto fried if l’Allemande ; in fact, pike may be dressed in all respects the same as carp. Fried Pike a la Hollandaise When the pike is cleaned, cut it into slices an inch thick, and place them in a deep dish; season with pepper and salt, a gill of oil, lemon juice, chopped parsley, and a little grated nutmeg; turn the slices of pike over in the seasoning occasionally in order that they may be well saturated with it, and, half an hour before dinner-time, drain them, dip each separately in flour, and immediately fry them in hot fat; dish them on a napkin, place round them a border of fried parsley, and send to table with a boat of well-seasoned Dutch sauce (see p. ix). Crimped Pike a la Hollandaise To produce this dish in perfection, the following instructions must be closely attended to in every particular:— Scale 1 and clean the pike immediately on its being taken from the water; cut the fish into slices nearly an inch thick, and put them into a panful of water which, from its coldness, has the power of crimping the comparatively live fish thrown into it. About twenty minutes before dinner, boil the slices in hot water with a little salt; as soon as they are done, drain and dish them up on a napkin, and send to table with either of the following in a sauce-boat: Parsley and Butter, Dutch, Maitre d’Hotel, or Crayfish sauce.' 1 The easiest way is to place the pike in a sink, and then to pour some boiling water over it, by which means the scales are effectually removed by scraping them off with a knife.151 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Fillets of Pike may be dressed in every variety in which salmon, turbot, or soles are capable of being sent to table; and the directions given under those heads will suffice. It is necessary, however, to describe here the operation of filleting pike. The smaller sized of this fish are best suited for this purpose; these should be filleted as follows:— First lay the fish on the table, with its back placed towards you, insert the knife just below the gill, press with the left hand slightly on the upper part of the fillet, and then draw the knife down—close to the back-bone; when one fillet is removed, repeat the same opera- tion on the other side. Then lay the fillets alternately on the table with the skin downwards, insert the edge of the knife close to the skin at the extreme end, and by drawing the knife too and fro, keeping the blade closely pressed to the skin, it will come away from the fillet. Then cut these fillets into smaller ones, according to taste or con- venience, or into scallops, as the case may require. Perch a la Stanley Wash and prepare two or three fine bright perch, which should weigh not less than one pound and a half each; stew them in a little Rhenish wine, and when done, drain them, dish them up, and garnish with a Parisian ragofit (see p. 46), omitting the truffles but containing the liquor the perch have been stewed in. Garnish with a border of large crayfish, and send to table. Perch a la Waterfisch Boil two or more perch in a little French white wine, and when done, after removing the skin, dish up, and stick the red fins straight up in a row down the centre of the fish; on each side of the fins thus placed, decorate the perch by laying on its uppermost fillets shreds of boiled carrot and parsley-roots shred exceedingly fine; also in alternate rows with these some chopped blanched leaves of green parsley. Pour round the perch the following sauce:— Reduce the liquor in which the perch have been stewed with half a pint of white Veloutd sauce ; add a pat of fresh butter, half a gill of essence of mushrooms, a little nutmeg, and lemon juice ; mix the whole well together, and serve. Perch a la Venitienne Boil one or more perch, skin and dish them up, placing the red fins in a row down the centre; moisten with some sauce a la Venitienne (see p. 8), and send to table. In addition to the foregoing methods for preparing perch for the table, this fish may also be dressed in the same way as pike, carp, and tench, in Matelote, a la Dauphine, Water Souchet, k l’Allemande, a la Genoise, h la Hollandaise, & la Maitre d’Hotel, and also with Shrimp, Parsley and Butter, and plain Butter sauce. Note.—Perch should be served in fillets only when it happensTHE MODERN COOK I52 that they are small or that they are plentiful; otherwise it is usual to dress this kind of fish whole. Fillets of Perch a ITtalienne Follow the directions given for filleting pike, skinning the fillets of perch in like manner; trim them neatly by rounding them at one end, and bring the other end to a point. Then lay the fillets in a circle in a baking-dish with one or two ounces of clarified fresh butter; season with a little salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Twenty minutes before dinner-time, set the fillets on the fire or in the oven for about ten minutes to simmer; and when they are thoroughly done, drain and dish them up in the form of a close circle; sauce with a White or Brown Italian sauce, and send to table. Fillets of perch thus prepared may also be sent to table with either of the following sauces, from which the dish will take its name: a la Ravigote, a la Maitre d’Hotel, a la Cardinal, a la Vertpre, k la Hollandaise. Water Souchet of Fillets of Perch Procure one or two good-sized perch, clean and fillet them. Place the fillets neatly in a deep saute-pan, and put them in the larder until wanted. Meanwhile, with the bones and trimmings prepare the souchet broth according to the directions given for making the salmon souchet, and finishing in precisely the same manner. SKATE, WHITEBAIT, AND SHELLFISH Although the skate is not held in much repute, it nevertheless is not unworthy the notice of the epicure when properly dressed. In order to clean this fish, skin it on both sides, draw and wash it thoroughly; then lay the skate flat on the table, and cut it up in the following manner:—First, with a sharp knife, separate, on both sides, the fleshy parts of the fish from the back-bone, drawing the knife in a curving direction; afterwards cut these wing-like pieces into long strips by cutting right through the cartilaginous or finny parts; then place the strips in a pan filled with fresh water from the pump in order to crimp them. In like manner cut the fleshy parts remaining, and also the back-bone itself, into three-inch lengths, and place them also in the cold water to be crimped. The water in which the fish is placed should be changed often, until the crimping be effected. Crimped Skate, Boiled Turn the fin-pieces of skate round and fasten them with string, boil the fish in hot water with a tablespoonful of salt in it; when done, drain and dish it up on a napkin; garnish round with a row of chopped parsley and send to table with either of the following sauces in a sauce-boat: Lobster, Crayfish, Shrimp, Anchovy, Dutch, Mussel, or Oyster sauce.T53 DRESSED FISH IN GENERAL Crimped Skate, Fried Trim and dry some pieces of skate; after which dip each piece into flour preparatory to its being again dipped in beaten egg, and then rolled in very fine bread-crumbs; turn the pieces of skate round into shape again and fry them to a golden colour, and dish them up on a napkin with a border of fried parsley, and send to table with either of the sauces recommended for boiled skate. Skate with Black Butter Sauce Boil the skate, drain and place it on a silver dish, surround it with a border of fried parsley, and pour over it some well-seasoned Black Butter sauce (see p. 22). Fried Skate a l’ltalienne Egg and bread-crumb and fry the fish as directed for fried skate; when done, place it on a dish, pour under it a good Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), and serve. Skate with Fine Herbs au Gratin Butter a baking-dish, and after first turning the pieces of skate round, lay them neatly in the dish, sprinkle over some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and a very little shalot; season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a glass of sherry and a gill of consomme ; then shake some fine browned bread-crumbs or raspings over the whole, and set it in the oven to bake; when done, place the pieces of skate on the dish, in the same position which they occupied on the baking- dish ; reduce the liquor they have been baked in, and add it to a gill of Espagnole or Brown Italian sauce, mix in a small piece of butter, a little essence of anchovies, and lemon juice; pour the sauce round the fish; shake some fresh raspings over the whole, and then set the dish (if it be silver) on the stove to gratinate or consolidate the sauce and fish for a minute or two; pass the red-hot salamander over it, and send to table. Crimped Skate a la Pascaline Turn the pieces of skate round in the usual manner, boil, drain, and dish them up; then pour over the fish a well-seasoned Pascaline sauce (see p. 5) made rather piquante; garnish with glazed crofltons of fried bread, and send to table. Skate a la Royale Boil the skate till it is half done, drain it, and after allowing it to cool, cut it into pieces about two inches long; place these in a basin and marinade them in a little oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt. Twenty minutes before dinner drain the pieces of skate, and then having first dipped each piece separately in some frying batter prepared for that purpose, fry them a golden colour in plenty of hot fat; dish the skate up in a pyramidal form, sauce round with Ravigote or Poivrade sauce, garnish the dish with alternate groups of fried parsley, and serve.THE MODERN COOK r54 Whitebait This very delicious fish is in season during the months of June, July, and August; it is then eaten in the greatest perfection at Greenwich and Blackwall. Owing to the extreme delicacy of this fish, and its very fragile nature, it cannot be conveyed any distance during the season without injuring its quality, neither can it be kept many hours after it has been taken. The following is the best method of preparing whitebait for the table:— Drain the fish on a clean napkin, thoroughly absorbing all the water; then roll them in flour, and afterwards drop them into some heated frying fat; as soon as they become crisp, drain them on a sieve, and after drying them for a minute or two before the fire, sprinkle on them a little salt, dish them on a napkin, and send to table accompanied by plates of white and brown bread and butter, and quarters of lemon—to be handed round with cayenne pepper. Scalloped Oysters Open two dozen oysters, and put them in a stew-pan on the fire to blanch or parboil; after boiling for a few minutes, drain them on a sieve, reserving the liquor to make the sauce with; immerse the oysters in cold water so as to wash off any scum that may adhere to them; take away the beard and gristly substance, and place the oysters thus prepared on a plate, while the sauce is being made in manner followingInto a small stew-pan put one ounce of fresh butter, one small dessertspoonful of flour, a very little pepper, and salt; with a wooden spoon mix the whole thoroughly, moisten with half a pint of oyster liquor and a good tablespoonful of cream, add a small piece of glaze, and then stir the sauce on the fire till it boils; keep stirring this for about ten minutes, by which time it will be sufficiently reduced to admit of the oysters being added to it; then squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, mix the whole well together, and after putting the oysters in the silver scallop-shells (or clean scoured oyster-shells will do), cover them with fried bread-crumbs. About ten minutes before serving place them in the oven till they are sufficiently hot to send to table, dish them on a napkin, and serve. Scalloped Oysters (another way) Prepare the oysters as in the preceding recipe; boil down their liquor to a fourth part of its original quantity, viz. a gill; add thereto a gill of white sauce, the yolk of one egg, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovies or a similar quantity of Harvey sauce; and, after stirring the whole over the fire for five minutes, the oysters should be mixed in, and then, after being placed neatly in the shells, finished as directed in the preceding recipe. Scalloped mussels, cockles, shrimps, lobsters, or crayfish may be prepared in like manner; a little essence of anchovies should, however, be added to the sauce for all these—except mussels and cockles; and for lobsters the coral should be added also.FISH ENTRIES I5S Planked Fish Wash and dry a fresh fish weighing about four pounds. Remove the head, then split the fish from head to tail, so that it can be flattened out on the plank. Heat the plank and brush it with oiled butter, place on the fish skin side down, and tack it on firmly. Put it into a hot oven. Mix together half a cup of butter, one cup of boiling water, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and one teaspoonful of salt. Baste the fish with this mixture every ten minutes for about thirty minutes. Remove from the oven, place the plank on a dish, and garnish with lemon slices and parsley. Planked Lobster Split a large lobster, thoroughly heat the plank, lay the lobster on the plank shell side down; put it under the gas for twenty minutes, baste with butter, season with salt and pepper, and cook for ten minutes longer. Garnish with small fried potato balls, grated cucum- ber, and lettuce leaves. FISH ENTRIES Boudins1 of Lobster a la Cardinal Chop the meat of a good-sized lobster very finely, put this into a mortar with part of the coral, reserving the remainder for the sauce; add two ounces of butter, pound the whole thoroughly, and rub the produce through a fine wire-sieve upon a plate; put the lobster back in the mortar with half its quantity of Panada (see p. 58), and pound these until well mixed; add one or more yolks of eggs with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, mix thoroughly by pounding, and then try the force-meat by poaching a small portion of it in boiling water; when done, cut it through the middle, and if the inside presents a smooth compact surface, put the force-meat into a basin, but if it appears soft and rough, add a little more Panada and another egg; divide the force-meat into six or eight parts, roll these upon a slab with a little flour into oblong boudins ; poach them with boiling water in a deep saute-pan by the fire for about twenty minutes, turning them over carefully when done on one side; drain well, trim the sides, and mask them with some Cardinal sauce (see p. 13), and dish them up in a triangular form ; fill the centre with a Cardinal ragout (see p. 46), and serve. Quenelles1 of Lobster a la Vertpre Mould one dozen tablespoonfuls of quenelles with some lobster force-meat prepared as directed above ; place them in circular order in a saut^-pan spread with butter, and poach them with boiling water, which must be poured upon a saute-pan cover held in a sloping direction against the side of the saute-pan ; put a round of buttered paper over the quenelles, and leave to simmer gently by the side of 1 All boudins and quenelles mixtures should be first tested to ascertain the consistency.!56 THE MODERN COOK the fire for about twenty minutes. When done, drain them, stick some of the daws of the lobsters in one end of the quenelles, dish up in dose circular order, pour some Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5) over, fill the centre with picked prawns’ tails (previously warmed in a little glaze and lobster coral), and serve. Boudins of Whiting a la Supreme Pound the fillets of two skinned whitings, and rub them through a fine wire-sieve; put the produce in a mortar with one and a half ounces of fresh butter and an equal proportion of bread panada (see p. 58); pound these until well mixed, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding one or more yolks of eggs, and continue pounding for five minutes, then add a whole egg, and after it is thoroughly mixed in by pounding, put the force-meat into a basin. Previous to using the force-meat, add a tablespoonful of Allemande or Bechamel sauce; next shake some flour over a slab, divide the force-meat with a tablespoon into ten or twelve equal parts, roll these with the hand dipped in flour into small oval shapes, and place them immediately in a saute-pan spread with butter; mask over with a soft paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, and decorate them with black truffles. Poach the boudins in boiling water in the usual manner; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle, so as to show the decorated part; fill the centre with a ragout consisting either of mussels, oysters, shrimps, crayfish, or mushrooms; pour round some Supreme sauce (see p. 10), finished with some reduced essence made from the bones of the fish, and serve. Quenelles of Whiting a la Princesse Mould one dozen quenelles in tablespoons, with some force-meat of whitings prepared as directed above, mixed with a tablespoonful of puree of mushrooms (see p. 30); place the quenelles in a saut^-pan spread with butter, poach them in the usual manner, and when done, drain, and dish up in close circular order; pour some Princesse sauce (see p. 11) over, fill the centre with a Ragout of Soft Roes of Mackerel (see p. 46), and serve. Boudins of Salmon a Htalienne Pound about half a pound of fresh salmon, and pass it through a fine wire-sieve; then put it again into a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter and an equal proportion of bread panada (see p. 58); pound these thoroughly for about five minutes, season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, adding one or more yolks of eggs; mix these well together, then add one whole egg and a tablespoonful of reduced Allemande sauce, continue pounding for ten minutes longer, after which put the force-meat into a basin. Mould eight or ten quenelles, and place them in a deep saute-pan spread with butter; poach them in the usual way, and when done, drain, and dish them upright against a narrow croustade of fried bread fastened in the centre of the dish; place a large crayfish between each quenelle, pour some White Italian sauce (see p. 3) round the entrde, and serve.FISH ENTREES *57 Quenelles of Salmon a la Ravigote Mould a dozen quenelles in tablespoons with some force-meat of salmon prepared as directed above; poach in the ordinary way, and when done, drain, and dish up in close circular order; pour some Ravigote sauce (see p. 19) over them, fill the centre with scallops of whitings tossed in a little Allemande sauce, and serve. Blanquette of Sturgeon Braise a pound of sturgeon in some wine mirepoix (see p. 57) for about thirty minutes, and leave to get cold in its own liquor; then drain and cut it up into scallops, and place in a stew-pan with some truffles and button-mushrooms, to which add some Allemande sauce finished with part of the mirepoix reduced for the purpose; warm the blanquette, dish it up in the form of a dome, garnish round with lobster croquettes, and serve. Fillets of Salmon a 1’Aurore Cut about a pound of salmon into oval fillets; place these in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, season with pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and lemon juice ; fry them over the fire for five minutes, pour off nearly all the butter, and then mask each fillet with a thin coating of Allemande sauce (see p. 3); rub three hard-boiled yolks of eggs through a wire-sieve, and spread this kind of vermicelli equally over all the fillets; then pass a hot salamander over them to deepen the colour of the yolk of egg, dish the fillets up in a close circle, fill the centre with a ragout of mushrooms, small quenelles, and mussels tossed in some Aurora sauce (see p. 11), pour some of it round, and serve. Fillets of Salmon a la Parisienne Cut a pound of salmon into heart shapes, season with a little pepper and salt, and mask over with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce; when this has become cold, bread-crumb twice over in the usual manner, and put them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; fry the fillets lightly over a brisk fire, and when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with some ragout cl la Parisienne (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Salmon Cutlets a la Maintenon Trim a pound of salmon into fillets as above, and place them in a saut^-pan with some clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, chopped mushrooms, truffles, parsley, and two shalots, and fry lightly for five minutes ; then add half a pint of Allemande sauce, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; simmer the whole together for two minutes longer, and remove from the fire. Cut as many sheets of small notepaper, into the shape of hearts, as there are cutlets; oil them over with a paste-brush, place a cutlet in each, divide the sauce equally, and then fold the edges down all round by neatly and firmly twisting them under in pleats, so as to153 THE MODERN COOK prevent the sauce from escaping; place the cutlets upon a clean gridiron, over a clear fire, and broil without allowing the paper to burn; dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with fried parsley, and send some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) separately in a boat. Fillets of Gurnets with Caper Sauce Fillet one or more gurnets, remove the skin, and if the fish is large, divide each fillet into several pieces; place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and put in the oven or over the fire to simmer for about five minutes, then turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with small quenelles of the same kind of fish, pour some Caper sauce (see p. 21) over the entree, and serve. Note.—Fillets of gurnets prepared and dished up as the above may also be served with any of the following sauces : Italian, Ravigote, Maitre d’Hotel, Oyster, Mussel, or Crayfish. Fillets of Soles a la Dieppoise Trim the fillets of one or more soles, and spread them on the out- side with a preparation of fine herbs mixed with a yolk of egg; then fold them up, press them together, and insert the claw of a crayfish into the narrow end of each. Place the fillets in a saute-pan thickly spread with butter, moisten with the liquor from the oysters used for the sauce, and season with a little mignonette pepper and salt; cover with a circular piece of greased paper, and leave to simmer gently over the fire for about ten minutes; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle, showing the crayfish claws; garnish with some Matelote Normande ragofit (see p. 45), and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Maitre d’Hotel Trim and flatten the fillets of soles neatly, take hold of both ends (keeping the whitest side uppermost), and bring them together, one overlapping the other; then place them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and a little lemon juice; simmer over the fire for ten minutes, and when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle; pour some Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. n) over them, and serve. Note.— Fillets of soles, prepared as the foregoing recipe, may also be served with either of the following sauces: Ravigote, Italian, Aurora, Pascaline, Crayfish, Oyster, Shrimp, and Dutch. Fillets of Soles a la Venitienne Skin and fillet two soles, trim the fillets, and place one half in a saut^-pan with some clarified butter, lemon juice, pepper, and salt, as before. Simmer the remainder (without trimming them) also with the same seasoning; when done, drain upon a plate, and allow to cool. Then cut up the latter into small dice, mix them with a little reduced Allemande sauce, and season with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a pinch of mignonette pepper, and grated nutmeg;FISH ENTRIES 159 spread this preparation out upon a dish, about the sixth part of an inch thick, and when it has become firm by cooling, cut it out into pieces about the size and shape of the fillets, and egg and bread- crumb these in the usual manner. Just before sending to table, simmer the fillets over the fire, and fry the croquettes in hot fat; when done, drain both, and dish them in a close circle, placing alternately the croquettes and fillets; pour some Venetian sauce (see p. 8) over the white fillets only, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Provengale Trim the fillets of one or more soles, divide each, and place them for several hours in a basin with mignonette pepper, a little salt, lemon juice, salad oil, thyme, bay leaf, and two shalots. Then drain the fillets on a cloth to absorb all the moisture, flour them over, dip them in some light batter (see p. 56), and fry them in hot fat; when brown, drain, and dish up, pour either some Provengale, Dutch, Fine Herbs, Ravigote, or Maitre d’Hotel sauce under, and serve. Fillets of Soles a l’Orly Trim the fillets of one or more soles, and steep them for several hours in the same kind of seasoning as directed to be used above, substituting two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar for the lemon juice. Drain the fillets on a cloth in order to absorb the moisture, then shake them in some flour, dip in very light batter, and drop them in some hot fat, and fry them a light golden colour. Drain, and dish up in a pile, pour either some Tomato, Italian, Piquante, Ravigote, or Provengale sauce round, and serve. Fillets of Soles a la Rouennaise Fillet two soles, divide each across, and trim them into heart shapes; mask over with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), and when this has become firm by cooling, bread-crumb twice over in the ordinary way; stick a piece of the claw of a lobster into the narrow end of each fillet, so as to give them the appearance of cutlets, and place them in a saut£-pan with some clarified butter. Fry the fillets a golden colour on both sides, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a Rouennaise ragofit (see p. 45), and serve. Paupiettes of Fillets of Soles a la Cardinal Trim the fillets of two soles, spread them upon a cloth, and spread over each with a layer of quenelle force-meat of whiting mixed with some lobster coral; squeeze some lemon juice over them, and roll them up tightly to keep them in shape. Place these rolls of paupiettes in a sautd-pan, and put them in the oven to bake for about twenty minutes ; then drain the paupiettes, pare off the ends with a sharp knife, and dish them up on their ends, side by side, in a close circle, so as to show the coral; fill the centre with some Cardinal ragoftt (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce over the fillets, and serve.i6o THE MODERN COOK Dolphins of Whitings a la Parisienne Skin two fine fresh whitings, and remove the back-bones without detaching the fillets from the head. Roll out, and bake a circular piece of common paste, nearly the size of the bottom of the dish; fasten to the base a pillar-shaped croustade of fried bread three inches high and one inch in diameter. Prepare some force - meat of whitings, coloured with lobster coral, and mask the heads and fillets of whitings entirely with it, smoothing them over with a knife dipped in hot water; then turn the tail ends of the fish inwardly, down upon the centre of the head—giving to each the form of a heart; place them upright against the croustade, with their heads resting flat upon the foundation of paste, and decorate them over with half-moons of black truffles so as to represent scales of fish; encircle the entree with a band of buttered paper: this must not touch the whitings. Bake the dolphins in a moderately heated oven for about forty minutes; ascertain whether they are done through, and then remove the band of paper; drain off the fat, place them carefully upon a dish, glaze the dolphins with a little lobster coral diluted in the glaze, pour some Supreme sauce (see p. io), finished with an essence made from the bones and trimmings, round, and serve. Note.—Fillets of whitings may also be prepared according to the several directions given for dressing fillets of soles. Fillets of Trout a la Chevaliere Divide the fillets of two small trout into moderate-sized oval fillets; mask over with reduced d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), brush over with egg, and cover with bread-crumbs mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; the fillets must be first dipped in beaten egg, and then sprinkled with clarified butter, preparatory to their being bread-crumbed a second time. Fry them a golden colour, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a ragoht of soft roes of mackerel or herrings, pour some Crayfish sauce (see p. 14) round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Trout a la Regence Trim the fillets of one or more trout into neat heart-shaped fillets; place them in a saute-pan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice; simmer the fillets over the fire for five minutes, turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain, and dish up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a Regent’s ragoftt (see p. 48), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Epigrammes of Fillets of Trout Trim the fillets as above, egg and bread-crumb one half, in the ordinary manner, and place these in a saute-pan with clarified butter; put the remainder into another sauffl-pan with clarified butter, without being bread-crumbed, and season with pepper and salt. Fry the fillets, drain, and dish up in a close circle, placing one ofFISH ENTREES 161 each kind alternately; fill the centre with some scallops of fillets of soles, tossed in a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce, and some chopped and parboiled parsley; over the plain fillets pour some Aurora sauce (see p. n) (taking care not to coat those that are bread-crumbed), and serve. Note.—Fillets of plaice, flounders, and perch may be dressed in the same manner as directed for fillets of soles or whitings. Darne, or Slice of Salmon a la Montpellier Procure about two and a half pounds of the prime cut of a good- sized salmon; slip the blade of a sharp knife under the skin, and detach this without removing it; fill up the cavity with a piece of carrot covered with fat bacon; wrap the slice of salmon in layers of fat bacon, and tie them on with string. Place the fish on a drainer in a stew-pan, moisten with some mirepoix (see p. 57), and leave to boil very gently over a moderate fire for about three-quarters of an hour; then remove it, and let the fish remain in its own liquor until nearly cold; drain it, and set aside to become firm. The darne must then be freed from its skin, etc., trimmed, and lightly masked over with glaze mixed with some lobster-coral. Cut out a round or oval piece of bread, about the size of the salmon, and an inch thick, and fry it in hot fat; spread this all over with some Montpellier butter (see p. 43), smooth the surface with a knife dipped in warm water, and put it on the bottom of the dish. Next place the darne of salmon upon this, and spread the upper part with rather a thin coating of the Montpellier butter, which, after being, smoothed over, must be decorated with a bold wreath of roses or laurels, composed of black truffles. Ornament the entree with fancy croutons of aspic jelly. Trout a la Vertpre Boil two or three small trout in some mirepoix (see p. 57), and when cold remove the skins; spread them all over with a thin coating of Montpellier butter (see p. 43), and mark out the mouth, gills, and the eyes with some narrow strips of black truffles. Cut some of the truffles into thin slices, and afterwards stamp them out with a circular tin-cutter in the form of half-moons, and arrange them upon the trout to imitate fish scales. Prepare a foundation of fried bread, covered with Montpellier butter, as directed in the last recipe; place it on the dish, arrange the trout upon it, and ornament with a border of aspic croutons. Mayonnaise of Fillets of Soles, etc. Trim the fillets of two soles, simmer them in a sautd-pan with one ounce of butter, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; when done, press the fillets between two dishes, and as soon as they are cold, divide each fillet into three portions, trim the ends, put them into a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and let them steep in this. Next prepare an aspic border mould in the following manner:— M *162 THE MODERN COOK Crush some ice, and embed the mould partially in this; pour a small quantity of dissolved aspic jelly in the bottom of the mould, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch, and upon this place a decoration, made as follows:—Cut some black truffles and hard-boiled white of eggs in very thin slices; stamp these out into the form of rings, diamonds, leaves, etc., and arrange them with taste on the surface of the jelly; when this is complete, the decoration must be coated with a little aspic jelly, poured over with great care so as not to disturb it: as soon as this has become set, fill the mould up with aspic, and when that also has become set, turn the border out of the mould on a dish. Fill the centre with the fillets of soles neatly piled up in a conical form, pour some green Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 24) over them, and garnish with a neat border of trimmed prawns’ tails. Note.—Fillets of turbot, salmon, trout, mackerel, or gurnets may be similarly treated as above; the sauce can be varied, and the dish may also be garnished either with plovers’ eggs, crayfish tails, or quarters of the white hearts of cabbage-lettuces. Some shred lettuce, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, may also be placed at the bottom of the aspic border, to pile the fillets upon. Zephires of Crab a la Royale Remove the flesh from a large crab, flake a portion and use it for garnish. Pound the remainder in a mortar till quite smooth, then add a gill of Bechamel sauce. Season, with salt, pepper, and aromatic spice, mix well, and rub through a sieve. Incorporate half a gill of stiff aspic, and fill the mixture into small savarin moulds, which have been previously masked with aspic, and decorated with fine strips of truffles and strips of cucumber rind or red chilli skin. Place the little moulds on the ice for two hours, turn them out on to small round dishes, fill the centre with the flaked crab flesh, decorate with lobster, coral, or chopped pistachios, and serve with a sauce composed of mayonnaise, whipped cream, a little French mustard, and a little grated horse-radish. The sauce must be kept on the ice until required for table. Lobster Salad Break the shell, and remove the meat whole from the tail and claws of a medium-sized lobster; put this into a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and reserve the pith and coral to make some lobster butter (see p. 42), which is to be thus used:—First, spread a circular foundation of the lobster butter upon the bottom of the dish; then, scoop out the centre, leaving a circular band. Drain the lobster on a cloth, cut the pieces in oval shapes, and with some of the butter (to stick the pieces firmly together) pile the lobster up in three successive rows, the centre being left hollow; fill this with shred lettuce, or salad of any kind, seasoned with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt; pour some scarlet Remoulade (see p. 23) or Red Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 24) over the salad, without masking the pieces of lobster; garnish the base with a border of hearts ofREMOVES OF BEEF 163 lettuces, divided in halves, and around these place a border of plovers’ eggs, having a small sprig of green tarragon stuck into the pointed end of each; place a white heart of lettuce on the top, and serve. REMOVES OF BEEF Braised Roll of Beef a la Flamande Take a piece of sirloin of beef, well covered with fat, weighing about six pounds; bone it, leaving the fillet adhering to the upper part; lard the fillet in a slanting position by inserting with a larding needle some pieces of larding bacon about a quarter of an inch square and three inches long; then roll the beef up close, and fasten it round with a string so as to secure its shape. Break up the bones and place them with the trimmings at the bottom of a braising- pan; then place the roll of beef on the bones, and garnish with a sliced carrot, a sliced onion, a stick of celery, and a bunch of parsley with thyme and a bay leaf, and two blades of mace; moisten with two glasses of sherry, and enough good stock or consommt; to nearly cover the beef; place over all a well-buttered paper, and after having caused it to boil, set the braising-pan to continue gently boiling on a moderate fire for about two and a half to three hours: the time for this must be regulated by the degree of tenderness of the meat. When the beef is done, drain, trim, and put it into a convenient- sized pan containing a little of the liquor in which it has been braised; and with a portion of the remaining part, make a pint of brown sauce for the remove ; boil the rest down, and with this glaze the beef. Place it on a dish, garnish round with alternate groups of trimmed shapes of glazed carrots and turnips, glazed onions, and Brussels sprouts; pour the brown sauce round the dish, and send to table. Braised Beef k la Printaniere Prepare and braise a piece of sirloin of beef, according to the foregoing directions ; dish it up, and place round it groups of young carrots (trimmed into oval shapes and glazed in the usual manner), asparagus-heads, small buds of cauliflowers, and French beans cut in the shape of diamonds; round the dish place a border of turnips cut in the form of deep saucers and filled with green peas; pour some bright Espagnole sauce (see p. 3) round the remove, glaze the beef, and stick on it three or five ornamental silver skewers, all of them garnished with carrots, turnips, etc. Braised Roll of Beef a la Polonaise Braise the roll of beef as in the previous recipe, mask it with some glaze in which beetroot juice (see p. 106) has been mixed; dish the beef up on a bed of braised red cabbage (see p. 38), garnish round with alternate groups of glazed small onions and thoroughly well-boiled beetroot cut into the shape of small pears or half-moons, and glazed; pour some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) round the remove, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 164 Braised Roll of Beef a l’Allemande Braise the beef in the usual manner, garnish it round with stewed sauerkraut (see p. 39), round which place a border of potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried a golden colour in butter; sauce round with Poivrade or brown sauce, and send to table. Braised Roll of Beef a la Royale Prepare and braise the roll of beef as directed for dressing the beef a la Flamande; after trimming and glazing the roll, place it on a dish, and sauce it round with a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44), garnish round with a border of larded lambs’ sweetbreads and whole truffles placed alternately round the dish, and ornament the roll of beef by inserting four silver hatelets or skewers garnished as follows .-—First run the point of the skewer through a large double cock’s-comb, then a large mushroom, a fine truffle, and, lastly, a fine crayfish; use them as directed to ornament the roll of beef, and send to table. Braised Roll of Beef a la Windsor Braise the roll of beef perfectly tender, trim, glaze, and place it on a dish; garnish round with alternate groups of stewed peas and potatoes—cut in the shape of large olives and fried to a golden colour in butter. Clarify and reduce the braise in which the beef has been done, and with it sauce the beef round, reserving part to be sent to table in a sauce-boat. Braised Roll of Beef a la Claremont Procure about three or four pounds of sirloin of beef, cut square from the centre; bone and trim it, and then proceed to lard the fillet and upper part of the beef with pieces of tongue and the fillets of a pheasant, cut into lengths of about three inches and a quarter of an inch square in thickness ; roll the beef and tie with string, place it in a braising-pan with the bones broken small, and the trimmings, one carrot, one onion, celery, a bunch of parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a glass or two of sherry and sufficient broth from the stock-pot to nearly cover the beef, place a well- buttered paper on it, cover the pan with its lid, and set the beef to boil gently on a slow fire for about two and a half hours—taking care that, when the liquor has become somewhat reduced in quantity by boiling, the beef should be frequently moistened on the exposed surface by being basted with the braise. When the beef is done, drain, trim, glaze, and place it on its dish; pour round it a ragout it la Claremont, consisting of a pint of brown sauce mixed with one- fourth part of brown puffie of onions and some thin scallops of truffles, mushrooms, and red tongue, the whole to be cut out with a round cutter about the size of a half-crown piece; at each corner insert a silver skewer garnished with a large cock’s-comb, a decorated quenelle, and a thick scallop of red tongue; place a border of decorated quenelles and large crayfish round the end of the dish, and send to table.REMOVES OF BEEF i65 Braised Roll of Beef a la d’Orleans Prepare, braise, and trim the beef as in the foregoing recipe; thoroughly remove the oily matter from the surface of the fat, and cover it all over with the following preparation :— Take two dozen very green pickled gherkins, chop them very finely and put them into a small stew-pan ; stir them over a quick fire till their moisture is entirely absorbed by the heat, then take the stew-pan off the fire, and after allowing the contents to cool, add the yolks of three eggs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix well together, and use as paste, as directed, for the purpose of covering the entire surface of the beef with a coating about a quarter of an inch thick; smooth it over with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water; decorate the centre and ends of the roll of beef with carrots and turnips, French beans and asparagus-heads, cut and prepared for the purpose in fancy designs, by placing, for instance, young carrots and turnips cut in the shape of a crescent alternately side by side so as to form a circle, and in its centre a group of heads of asparagus boiled green, and again round this a border of large marrow-fat peas boiled green; at each end place a row of small carrots and turnips in the shape of small olives, while round the roll of beef thus decorated pour a well-made Poivrade sauce (see p. 8); garnish with a border of potato croquettes fried a golden colour (made in the form of pears with a stalk of parsley stuck in the point to resemble the stalk of a pear), glaze the decoration of vegetables slightly with a paste-brush dipped in some thin glaze so as not to disturb the order of their arrangement, and send to table. Braised Roll of Beef a la Milanaise Bone and trim about six pounds of the prime cut from the centre of a well-covered sirloin of beef; lard the under and upper fillets with ham or larding bacon, season with a little chopped green thyme and winter savory, mignonette, pepper and salt; roll the beef up tight and secure its shape with string, place it with the trimmings and usual accessories recommended in the foregoing recipes in a braising-pan ; moisten with a little red wine and a sufficient quantity of good stock to reach rather more than half-way up the beef; place over a well-buttered paper, cover with the lid of the pan, and set the whole to braise gently for about three hours—taking care frequently to baste the beef with its liquor. When the beef is done, drain, trim, and glaze it—first straining off the braise and removing every particle of grease; then clarify, and afterwards reduce it to the consistency of thin glaze, to which add half a small pot of red-currant jelly, a glass or two of Malaga or fine old Madeira. Dish up the roll of beef, pour this sauce over it, at each end garnish with macaroni dressed with Parmesan cheese, and at the sides of the dish place groups of raviolis (see p. 103) prepared for the purpose, and send to table.THE MODERN COOK i66 Braised Roll of Beef a la Richelieu Braise the roll of beef in exactly the same manner as directed for beef a la Flamande (see p. 163); when done, drain, trim, glaze, and dish it up; garnish with glazed onions, and round the outer circle of the well of the dish, place a border of quenelles of pheasant, which, after being first poached in the usual manner, are to be bread- crumbed and fried a golden colour; then sauce lightly with the essence in which the beef has been braised (clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half glaze for the purpose). Send some of the essence separately in a sauce-boat, and serve. Braised Roll of Beef a la Dauphinoise For this purpose the roll of beef should be braised sufficiently tender to enable it to be cut with a spoon; it should be allowed to cool in its own liquor, and when nearly cold, drained, trimmed, and placed on a deep baking-dish, and then covered over entirely with a coating of thick Soubise sauce; when the sauce has become firmly set on the beef by getting cold, egg it over, and bread-crumb it twice ; sprinkle a little clarified butter over the surface of the beef; and about half an hour before dinner, set the beef thus prepared in a very hot oven that it may be baked to a light brown; place it on its dish, sauce round with a Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), and garnish it with a border of tomatoes prepared au gratin (see p. 344), and send to table. Braised Roll of Beef garnished with Glazed Vegetables Braise, trim, glaze, and dish the roll of beef up as directed for beef a la Flamande; garnish it round with young carrots, turnips, and onions, cut into fancy shapes and stewed in the usual manner, and placed in alternate groups; sauce the beef with some Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. Braised Rump of Beef The rump is considered to be the best for braising, and should be chosen of fine quality for this purpose: rich-grained, of a deep bright-red colour, and well covered with a thick coating of delicate- looking fat. Procure three or four pounds of the rump. Bone the beef, and after having trimmed it, secure its shape with string, and braise it as directed for braised rolls of beef, following those in- structions, according to the manner in which the rump of beef is intended to be dressed—as, for instance, h. la Flamande, a la Printanibre, etc., etc., etc. BRAISED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF Fillet of Beef if la Napolitaine Procure three or four pounds of fillet of beef, and with a thin- bladed knife pare off the sinewy skin which covers it, lard it closely in the usual manner, and prepare it for braising as follows:—First,BRAISED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF 167 place the trimmings in a narrow oblong braising-pan, then put in the fillet, and garnish it round with a carrot, a stick of celery, a couple of onions with two cloves stuck in each, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a pint of either white wine or stock, cover the whole with a well-buttered paper, put the lid on the pan, and set the fillet to boil gently on a slow fire—basting the fillet frequently with its own liquor while braising, which will require about one and a half to two hours. Towards the latter part of the time glaze the larding with some thin, light-coloured glaze, and set the fillet in the oven to dry the larding, taking care that it does not burn or get too much coloured. In the meantime, strain off the liquor, remove all grease, and clarify it; reduce it to half of its original quantity, and then add a gill of good Espagnole sauce (see p. 3), one chopped shalot, a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, and a teaspoonful of grated horse-radish ; set the whole to boil on the fire for five minutes, after which pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer into a bain-marie. Place the fillet on a dish, and surround it with groups of macaroni dressed with cheese in the usual manner; glaze the beef over, pour the sauce round the fillet, on which, at each end and at the centre, with an ornamental skewer, fix a turnip, cut in the shape of a cup and filled with grated horse- radish, and send to table; send some of the sauce in a sauce-boat separately. Fillet of Beef a la Macedoine Trim, lard, and prepare a medium-sized fillet of beef according to the first part of the preceding instructions; moisten with a pint of good stock, and proceed to braise the fillet in exactly the same manner; when done, glaze and dish up. Garnish round with groups of carrots, turnips, French beans, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower—the carrots and turnips to be cut into the shape of small olives, or cloves of garlic, the French beans in the shape of diamonds. Sauce round the fillet with the clarified and reduced liquor in which it has been cooked, glaze the fillet, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Jardiniere Braise a larded fillet of beef according to the foregoing instruc- tions, and when done, glaze and place it on a dish; garnish round with alternate groups of cooked carrots and turnips, in the shape of olives, round balls, diamonds, small half-moons, or any other suitable fancy shape ; intermixed with these, place also some groups of green peas, French beans cut in diamonds, asparagus-heads, and buds of cauliflower. Sauce the fillet of beef round with bright Espagnole sauce mixed with some of the essence in which the fillet has been braised (previously clarified and reduced for this purpose), glaze the fillet, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef dressed as Chevreuil (Roebuck) Procure a medium-sized fillet of beef, remove the sinewy skin which covers the fat side, trim it neatly, and lard it closely; then lay the fillet for a day or so to steep or pickle in a pan containing ai68 THE MODERN COOK sufficient quantity of cold marinade (see p. 57) prepared for the purpose. Next, when the fillet has become saturated with the marinade, drain it, and prepare it for braising exactly in the same manner as in any one of the preceding recipes; moisten with wine or stock, and braise the fillet of beef in the usual way; when it is done, glaze it well, and place it on a dish. Garnish round with potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried a golden colour; sauce the fillet round with a well-made Chevreuil sauce (see p. 17) with the addition of half the essence in which the beef has been braised, and which, as usual, has been previously clarified and reduced to half- glaze for the purpose; glaze the larded fillet and send to table. If preferred, the fillet may be roasted instead of braised. Fillet of Beef a l’Allemande Prepare a fillet of beef in every respect according to the foregoing directions; when done, glaze and dish it up; garnish round with stewed sauerkraut (see p. 39), sauce it with Poivrade or Espagnole sauce, and send to table. The fillet of beef k l’Allemande may also be garnished with stewed prunes, quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), and sauced round with German sweet sauce (see p. 15). Braised Fillet of Beef with Madeira Sauce Lard a fillet of beef, prepare it for braising in the usual manner, moisten it with wine or stock, and then set the fillet to braise gently on a slow fire; keep basting it frequently with its own liquor, and when done glaze it and place it on a dish. Garnish round with a Jardiniere (see p. 167), a Macedoine (see p. 167), or some nicely fried potatoes; clarify the whole of the liquor in which the fillet has been braised, reduce it to the consistency of half-glaze, and use it for the purpose of saucing the fillet, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Milanaise Braise a larded fillet of beef in an oval braising-pan garnished with the usual quantity of vegetables, etc. ; moisten with wine or stock; when the beef is done, glaze and dish it up, and garnish it round with macaroni prepared as follows:—Boil four ounces of macaroni, cut it into one-inch lengths, and put it into a stew-pan containing some scallops of mushrooms, truffles, and tongue ; to these add a gill of Bechamel sauce (see p. 3), one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pat of butter; season with a little grated nutmeg and mignonette pepper, toss the whole well together over the fire until well mixed, and use as directed. Sauce the fillet round with the essence (clarified in the usual manner), and send the remainder to table in a sauce-boat. Roast Fillet of Beef a l’Ang-Iaise Procure a good thick fillet of beef, trim and lard it in the usual manner, place in a deep dish, sprinkle over it a carrot and onion cut into thin slices, thyme, bay leaf, and parsley, some thin slices of theBRAISED AND ROAST FILLETS OF BEEF 169 pulp of a lemon, and a little mignonette pepper; pour about a gill of salad oil over the whole, and allow the fillet of beef to steep in this marinade for several hours—taking care to turn it over occasionally so that it may absorb a portion of the oil impregnated with the flavour of the various ingredients. About an hour and a half before dinner, remove every particle of marinade from the fillet of beef, the fillet either in front of the fire or in the oven—basting it frequently ; take care that the heat is not too fierce, as in that case the larding will be scorched, which would spoil not only its appearance, but also injure the flavour. Towards the last five minutes glaze over the larding with some thin, light-coloured glaze twice or thrice, and dish it up; garnish round with potatoes cut into fancy shapes and fried, placing at each end a tablespoonful of scraped horse-radish; pour a bright Madeira sauce (see p. 4) round, glaze the fillet over afresh, and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Nivernaise Braise a larded fillet of beef according to the instructions given for the fillet of beef it la Macedoine (see p. 167); when done, glaze it brightly, dish it up and garnish it round with a Nivernaise (see p. 33), and send to table. Braised Fillet of Beef a la Royale Closely lard a thick fillet of beef, lard it with small square fillets of lean ham, fat bacon, and truffles; prepare it for braising with the trimmings and the usual quantity of vegetables, etc., and moisten with wine or Madeira. Set the fillet to simmer gently on a slow fire in the usual way, carefully basting it occasionally with its liquor; when done, glaze it brightly, and afterwards dish it up; strain off the braise, clarify and reduce it, then add it to a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), with which garnish the fillet of beef; place round it a border of large crayfish, whole truffles, and cocks’-combs, and send to table. Roast Fillet of Beef a la Parisienne Roast a larded fillet of beef according to directions given for the fillet of beef a l’Anglaise (see p. 168); when done, dish it up, and surround it with alternate groups of green peas and crayfish tails (tossed in a little glaze); sauce the fillet round with a rich Madeira sauce (see p. 4), finished with some crayfish butter and a little lemon juice, and send to table. Roast Fillet of Beef a la Provengale Steep a larded fillet of beef in the marinade as directed for the fillet of beef a l’Anglaise, adding to the ingredients therein mentioned a clove of garlic and the pulp of half a lemon ; allow the fillet suffi- cient time to become thoroughly saturated with the marinade; roast as before directed, glaze and dish it up, garnish it round with tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344), and pour round it some ProvengaleTHE MODERN COOK 170 sauce (see p. 8), for making which use the marinade in which the fillet of beef has been pickled. Note.—Fillets of beef may also be dressed plain, that is, without being larded, as some dislike the mixture of fat bacon with beef. In all other particulars the directions for dressing braised rumps, rolls or larded fillets of beef are to be followed when dressing fillets plain. For purposes of economy the fillet of beef should be thus prepared for braising:—Trim the fillet as if intended to be larded, and then cover the upper or smooth part with layers of beef-suet prepared for the purpose by taking some large pieces of suet and placing them between a wet cloth, and with the cutlet-bat flatten them until they do not exceed half an inch in thickness; fasten the layers on the fillet with string, and for braising the fillet, follow the directions given in the foregoing dishes. BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, AITCH- BONES, ROUNDS, AND RIBS OF BEEF Boiled Brisket of Beef a l’Anglaise Procure a piece of brisket of beef, about five pounds, and which has been in salt about a week or ten days; wash the beef in cold water, and then place it on the drainer in a large oval braising-pan ; garnish with two carrots, two large onions, and two turnips; pour in sufficient cold water to fill the pan nearly, and set it to boil on the fire. As the scum rises to the surface, take it off with a spoon, and when the beef has been thoroughly skimmed, set the pan down by the side of the stove, to continue gently boiling for about two to two and a half hours—according to the size and weight of the brisket; when the beef is done, trim, glaze, and then dish it up; garnish it round with plain boiled turnips and carrots that have been neatly cut into the shape of pears, eggs, or small fluted leaf-like shapes; at each end place a group of small suet dumplings, pour some gravy under the beef, and send to table. Some Piquante sauce (see p. 6), lightly seasoned, should be served in a sauce-boat to be handed round with the beef. Boiled Brisket of Beef a l’Ecarlate The brisket of beef l’lvcarlate should be prepared according to the foregoing instructions in every respect—except the salting or curing operation, which must be thus effected :— To one and a half pounds of common salt add one ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, some bruised bay-leaves, thyme, winter savory, and sweet-marjoram, a dozen cloves, and a few blades of mace; with this mixture rub the piece of brisket of beef for a few minutes every day—for four or five days running; after which, merely turn it over in the brine once a day, for the succeeding five days—altogether making up ten days for salting the beef. The brisket of beef is then ready for use—provided it is to beBOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, ETC. 171 eaten while hot; but if intended to be eaten cold, the beef should remain in the brine at least a fortnight, by which time only it can be expected to have sufficiently absorbed the flavour of the herbs and spices. The foregoing instructions apply equally to every kind of salted meat. Stewed Brisket of Beef a la Flamande Take three to four pounds of fresh brisket of beef, and remove the breast-bone; place it on the drainer of a large braising-pan, garnish with two carrots, onions, a stick of celery, a bunch of parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf, six cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with sufficient good stock to cover the beef. Set the pan to boil gently for about two to two and a half hours ; when done, drain, glaze it well, and put it in the oven to dry, and glaze it again ; then place the brisket of beef on its dish, garnish it round with alternate groups of carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes, and glazed onions; sauce the beef round with a well-finished Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. Briskets of beef prepared in the foregoing manner may also be sent to table in every variety of method described for the preparation of rolls of beef, as well as rumps and fillets—in their various forms. Aitchbone of Beef & l’Anglaise Procure three to four pounds of aitchbone of beef, and salt it in the usual manner, by rubbing the salt well into the meat; repeat this operation every morning during four days, and then be careful that the beef is turned over in its brine every morning for seven successive days; by this time the aitchbone of beef will be ready for use. Next put it on in cold water, with a couple of carrots and turnips in the pot, and set it to boil gently for about two hours; when done, drain it, trim and dish it up, and surround it with alternate groups of carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, and small suet dumplings; pour gravy under the beef, and send to table. Boiled Round of Beef a l’Anglaise Follow the foregoing directions in every particular (observing that a round of beef should remain ten days in the brine, and that the time it will require for boiling must necessarily vary, according to the weight of meat); in fact, garnish it with the same sort of vegetables as directed to be used for the aitchbone, and send it to table with some lightly seasoned Piquante sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Boiled Round of Beef a la Chasseur, or “Hunting Beef” Cure four to five pounds of round ofr beef according to the directions given for salting a brisket a l’Ecarlate; it will require a fortnight or three weeks thoroughly to impregnate the beef with the flavour of the herbs, spices, etc. When the round of beef is172 THE MODERN COOK sufficiently salted, put it on to boil in home-brewed ale for two to two and a half hours; as soon as it is done, dish it up with carrots, turnips, Spanish onions, and small suet dumplings—the whole of these to be placed in groups round the beef; pour some gravy under it, and send to table. Rounds of beef prepared in the foregoing manner are more frequently sent to table cold—for breakfast and luncheon. Braised Rib of Beef a la Chasseur Procure one small rib of beef, saw off the chine-bone close up to the rib-bones, and with the saw shorten the rib-bones; then lard the lean right through with fillets of fat bacon a quarter of an inch square. Next cure the beef, as described for the preparation of the hunting beef, and when it is ready, wash the brine off in cold water, place the beef in a braising-pan on a drainer, with two carrots, two onions, and a bunch of herbs; moisten with a glass of sherry, and sufficient stock to cover the beef. Set the pan on the fire to continue gently boiling for about two hours; when the beef is done, drain, trim, and glaze it, put it in the oven to dry the surface, and glaze it again; then dish it up, garnish it round with glazed Spanish onions, and carrots —cut in the shape of pears; sauce the beef round with a well-finished Madeira sauce (see p. 4), and send to table. It is usual to dress ribs of beef in this manner to be eaten cold; for this purpose it is necessary to allow them to cool in their own braise, by which means they are materially benefited, as they absorb a considerable proportion of the essence—thereby acquiring both flavour and delicacy. When the ribs of beef are cold, take them out of their braise, trim, glaze, and dish them up; surround them with a border of bright aspic jelly (to be made from the liquor in which the meat has been braised), and send to table. Braised Rib of Beef a la Piemontaise Trim and lard with ham and truffles one small rib of fresh beef; prepare for braising with the trimmings a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, a few sprigs of parsley, six cloves, two blades of mace, and one clove of garlic; moisten with a glass of sherry and a good pint of stock; set the beef to boil very gently on a slow fire for about two and a half to three hours, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor; when the beef is done, drain, trim, glaze, and keep it warm; during this time, strain off the liquor in which the beef has been braised, remove all fat, clarify it, and then add four to six ounces of macaroni, previously boiled in water with a little salt and butter, for about ten minutes. Drain on a sieve, cut into three-inch lengths, and put into a stew-pan with a pinch of mignonette pepper; then stew the macaroni for a quarter of an hour longer, by which time it will be done; add a tablespoonful of Tomato sauce, one and a half ounces of fresh butter, and two and a half ounces of fresh grated Parmesan cheese ; toss the whole well together over the fire, and place the beef on a dish, surround with the macaroni thus prepared,BOILED AND STEWED BRISKETS, ETC. r73 glaze the beef afresh, pour into a sauce-boat the remaining half of the clarified braise reduced nearly to the consistency of half-glaze, and send to table. Rib of Beef a la Mode Prepare one small rib of beef for braising according to the fore- going instructions, moisten with one or two glasses of sherry or Madeira, and then set the pan containing the beef on the fire to simmer for about a quarter of an hour; after which add a quart of good consomme, cover the whole with a buttered paper and the lid, and set the pan again on the fire to continue gently simmering for two or three hours—according to the weight or size of the piece of beef. When done, drain and trim it, place it in a baking-tin with a little of its own liquor, put it in the oven to dry for a minute or two, and then glaze. When glazed, dish the beef up, and garnish round with groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and onions; sauce round with the essence in which the beef has been braised, clarified and boiled down to the consistency of half-glaze, for the purpose, and send to table. Rib of Beef a la Bourgeoise Trim one small rib of beef, lard and prepare for braising with the trimmings and the usual proportions of vegetables, etc.; moisten with a quart of good stock ; set the beef to boil very gently on a slow fire till done, which will require about two hours, taking care to turn it over in its braise occasionally; when the rib is done, drain, trim, and glaze ; dish up with a border of glazed carrots, onions, turnips round; pour the essence over, and serve. Braised Rib of Beef with Madeira Sauce Prepare a rib of beef for braising in the usual manner, moisten with a glass of Madeira and a pint of good consomme ; braise the beef gently for about two and a half hours; when done, trim, glaze, and dish it up with alternate groups of fried potatoes in the shape of large olives, and any green vegetable the time of year may afford ; use the clarified braise, reduced to an essence, as sauce, and send to table. Braised Rib of Beef a la Baden Trim and lard a small rib of beef with some fillets of lean ham and fat bacon; place in an oval braising - pan, garnish with two shalots, a grated stick of horse-radish, and a few sprigs of parsley; moisten with a glass or two of Rhenish wine and a pint of good stock, braise the beef gently on a slow fire, taking care to baste the beef frequently with its own liquor; when done, glaze and dish it up; strain the liquor into a stew-pan, take off all the fat, add a table- spoonful of red-currant jelly, the grated rind and juice of an orange ; reduce the whole to the consistency of sauce, pour it round the beef, garnish with a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), glaze the beef afresh, and send to table. Braised ribs of beef may also be sent to table in a variety of other forms; as, for instance, ii l’Anglaise, a la Milanaise, a la Macedoine, it la Royale, etc,, for which see Braised Rolls of Beef.174 THE MODERN COOK REMOVES OF VEAL Roast Fillet of Veal a l’Anglaise Veal, to be in perfection, should, if possible, be procured fresh killed, as it does not improve either in flavour or colour by being kept. Take out the bone from four to five pounds of good fat fillet of veal, and fill it with about half a pound of well-seasoned stuffing (see p. 468); sew it up with thin twine, and secure its shape with skewers and twine ; cover it well with buttered thick white paper, roast it about one hour and a half in front of the fire or in the oven ; just before it is done, take off the paper, and, after first shaking some flour over it from a dredger, baste the veal with a little fresh butter, and froth it; then dish it up, pour round it some fight-brown sauce incorporated with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of essence of mushrooms, and a little lemon juice; garnish round with potato croquettes, and send to table. Roast Fillet of Veal a la Macedoine Roast four to five pounds of a fillet of veal according to the foregoing directions, glaze and dish it up, garnish it round with a Macedoine of such vegetables as the season of the year may afford; sauce round with Supreme or Bechamel, and send to table. Roast Fillet of Veal a la Jardiniere Prepare three or four pounds of the fillet of veal as before described, dish it up, and garnish it round with groups of carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes, small heads of cauliflower, French beans cut into diamonds, green peas, and asparagus-heads; sauce with half- glaze, or a well-finished Espagnole sauce, and send to table. Roast Neck of Veal a la Creme Procure four pounds of neck of fat veal, saw off the scrag and chine-bones, and shorten the ribs; about an hour and a quarter before dinner, put it down to roast either in the oven or in front of the fire, baste it frequently, and about twenty minutes before taking the veal up, baste it with some good Bdchamel sauce made with plenty of cream. As in course of roasting the sauce dries on the veal, keep adding a fresh coating, until a light-coloured delicate crust is produced all over the meat; then take it up with great care, in order that the crust may not be disturbed; dish it up, pour a good cream Bdchamel sauce (see p. 3) under it, garnish it round with groups of French beans cut in diamonds, and buds of cauliflower, and send to table. Braised Neck of Veal & la Montmorency Trim three to four pounds of neck of veal, according to the directions given in the preceding recipe; then with a thin, long- bladed knife pare off the skin and sinew which cover the fillet part of the neck, leaving the ribs well covered; lard the part which hasREMOVES OF VEAL i7S been trimmed as closely and neatly as possible, and prepare it for braising as follows :— Line the bottom of the drainer of an oval braising-pan with two carrots, two onions, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs; cover the vegetables with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the neck of veal; lay the trimmings round it, and moisten with a quart of good veal stock ; put a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and set it to braise gently on a slow fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, which will require about two hours, glaze it brightly, and dish it up; garnish with a white ragofit of small quenelles, truffles, mushrooms, and cocks’-combs; then place round the ragofit a border of lambs’ sweetbreads, larded, and send to table. Neck of Veal a la Dreux , Trim three to four pounds of neck of veal, lard it through the fillet with some truffles, tongue, and fat bacon; first cut these into two-inch lengths by a quarter of an inch square, and then introduce them into the fillet part of the neck of veal without showing through the skin which covers it; it should then be braised according to the directions in the foregoing recipe, and when done, glazed, and dished up. Garnish with a white ragofit of scallops of tongue and mush- rooms, glaze the neck of veal, and send to table. Neck of Veal a la d’Uxelles Prepare three to four pounds of neck of veal in every particular the same as described in the foregoing recipe, braise it, and allow it partly to cool in its own stock; drain, trim, and spread a coating of thickly reduced d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5) over it; when the sauce has become set, proceed to coat the neck of veal in the usual manner by adding beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and one tablespoonful of grated Parmesan cheese to the bread-crumbs used for the purpose. Place the veal on a buttered baking-tin, and three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time put it in the oven, and bake it to a fine bright light-brown colour: during this part of the process be careful to sprinkle a little clarified fresh butter over the bread-crumbed surface of the veal, in order to prevent it from drying or burning. When the neck of veal is done, place it on a dish, garnish round with a Toulouse ragofit (see p. 43), and send to table. Neck of Veal k l’Ecarlate Trim and lard a neck of veal in the usual manner, prepare it for braising according to the instructions set forth for the preparation of neck of veal h la Montmorency, and braise it in a similar manner; dish it up, garnish it round with a border of circular scallops of tongue that have been glazed; sauce round with either Supreme, Allemande, or Bechamel sauce, and send to table. Neck of Veal & la Royale Trim and braise a neck of veal, and afterwards let it get partially cool in its own braise; drain it, and mask it entirely with a coating176 THE MODERN COOK of thick and well-seasoned Allemande sauce; as soon as the sauce has become set upon the neck of veal, coat it with egg and bread- crumbs, adding one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; place it on a buttered baking-tin three-quarters of an hour before dinner, and put it in the oven to bake. When done, dish it up, garnish round with a Toulouse ragout, surround the whole with a border of quenelles decorated with truffles; place a heart sweetbread (decorated with pieces of the tip of a tongue cut into the shape of large hob-nails, and inserted in circular rows in the sweetbreads) at each end of the dish, and send to table. Note.—Necks of veal, either braised or roasted plain, or larded and braised, may, in addition to the foregoing, be sent to table garnished with a Macedoine of vegetables, a Jardiniere, potato croquettes, mushrooms, or tomatoes au gratin (in the last two cases the neck of veal must be sauced with Espagnole, Poivrade, or Brown Italian sauce), a la Milanaise, a la Financiere, etc., etc. Noix or Cushion of Veal a la St. George The noix or cushion is that part of a leg of veal to which the udder adheres. In order to separate it from the round or fillet the leg should be placed on the table, with the knuckle from you, then with the left hand take hold of the upper part of the fillet of veal, and with the right insert the point of a knife into the separation which divides the noix or cushion from the under part of the fillet; cut the noix away, following the separation right through, round to the knuckle, terminating at the left, under the udder, which must be left adhering to the noix. Pare off the sinewy parts from four to five pounds of veal, trim the udder without reducing its size, and then, with a sharp-pointed knife, make a very slight incision in a circular direction on the surface of the noix round the inner edge of the udder; next remove the outer part with a knife, trimming it smooth and neatly; lard the trimmed part closely with fat bacon, in the usual manner, and prepare the noix for braising as follows:—First place at the bottom of a large fricandeau or oval stew-pan, on the drainer, two sliced carrots, a stick of celery, two onions with a clove stuck in each, and a bunch of herbs; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, and then put in the noix of veal; surround it with the trimmings, and moisten with a glass of sherry or Madeira, and a sufficient quantity of good stock, barely to reach the surface of the veal; cover with a well-buttered white paper, and set it to boil on the stove; place the lid on the pan, and put it on a slow fire or in the oven to braise gently for about three hours, remembering to baste the larding frequently with the liquor in order to moisten the veal and glaze it a bright colour; the udder should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon to preserve its whiteness during the braising. When the noix is done, drain and glaze it, remove the layers of bacon, and dish it up; garnish it round with groups of button-mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, and truffles cut in fancy shapes tossed in glaze; surround these with a border of lambs’ sweetbreads, one half of which should be larded, and theREMOVES OF VEAL 177 others, contises with tongue, placed alternately; stick four silver skewers, each garnished with a large double cock’s-comb, a large truffle, mushroom and crayfish, into the noix, sauce with a rich Madeira sauce (see p. 4), and send to table. Noix of Veal a la Financiere Prepare and braise five or six pounds of noix or cushion of veal in every respect the same as the foregoing; the wine may, however, if thought proper, be omitted; when the noix is done, glaze and drain it, dish it up, pour a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44) under it, garnish round with a border of quenelles and crayfish, and send to table. Noix of Veal a la Macedoine Prepare five or six pounds of noix of veal as in the foregoing recipes, dish it up, garnish it with a Macedoine of carrots, turnips, green peas, asparagus-heads and cauliflower-buds, tossed in some good Allemande sauce with a pinch of sugar; place round these a border of small artichoke-bottoms, filled alternately with green peas, small carrots, and turnips; glaze the larded part of the noix, and send to table. Noix of Veal a la Jardiniere The noix or cushion of veal must be first trimmed, larded, and braised according to the directions given for the noix a la Financiere; when done, dish it up, and garnish it round with a Jardiniere or garnish of vegetables, composed as follows :—Cut some carrots and turnips in the shape of either small olives, diamonds, corks, or cloves of garlic, etc., and boil them separately in consomme with a very small piece of fresh butter, a pinch of sugar, and a teaspoonful of salt, taking care that the turnips must be kept white, and that the carrots should be boiled down and rolled in their glaze ; prepare also some small heads of cauliflower, green peas, French beans cut into diamonds, asparagus-heads, and small new potatoes; place these vegetables round the noix in alternate groups, sauce with an Espagnole sauce, or else with the essence in which the noix has been braised—first clarified, then reduced to half-glaze, and added to a well-finished Espagnole sauce ; glaze the larded part of the noix, and send to table. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing noix or cushions of veal for the table, they may, after being first prepared and braised (either larded or stuck with circular rows of truffles, cut in the shape of large hob-nails, and inserted in the semicircular lean part of the noix), be served with a Napolitaine, Milanese, or Chipolata ragout, with tomatoes au gratin, potato croquettes, and sauced with Bechamel sauce with stewed peas, or asparagus peas, tossed in a little Allemande sauce with a pat of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a little nutmeg. Roast Loin of Veal a 1’Anglaise Procure five to six pounds of loin of veal to be cut without the chump end, and with the skirt left on ; trim it square, and placing half a pound of veal-stuffing (see p. 468) in an incision made in the N178 THE MODERN COOK flap part for that purpose, wrap the flap or skirt-piece round tight, so as to secure the kidney-fat; fasten it with skewers and string, cover it with two sheets of buttered paper, to be tied on with string, and roast the loin of veal either in the oven or in front of the fire for one and a half hours; when nearly done, take off the paper, shake some flour over it with a dredger, and afterwards froth it over with two ounces of fresh butter; as soon as the veal has acquired a fine light colour, and the butter and flour have frothed up, dish it up; pour some brown melted butter under it, and send to table. Roast Loin of Veal a la Montglas Roast about five pounds of a loin of veal, according to the fore- going directions; next, with a sharp knife make an incision two inches deep along the sides and ends of the loin, and endeavour to cut out the square piece without tearing the meat, the joint re- sembling an oblong case. The fillet thus taken out should be cut into thin round scallops and put into a stew-pan with an equal quantity of scallops of tongue and mushrooms; to these add a large tablespoonful of good Bechamel sauce, and with this mixture fill the loin of veal, previously put on a buttered baking - sheet; smooth the top over with the blade of a knife, and cover the whole with very fine bread-crumbs fried with butter to a light colour, and mixed with one and a half ounces of Parmesan cheese; sprinkle a little melted fresh butter over it, and set it in the oven to get hot, salamander it over and dish it up; garnish with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), and place round a border of croquettes of veal, or sweetbread; at each corner of the loin stick an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a large cock’s-comb, mushroom, decorated quenelle, and truffle; glaze the sides of the loin of veal, and send to table. Loin of Veal a la Dauphine Procure five to six pounds of loin of veal, cut square, with the whole of the flap or skirt left on ; bone it entirely, taking care, at the same time, to remove every portion of sinew; lard the lean part of the fillet with small fillets of tongue, or ham; the veal must then be laid square on the table, and with about half a pound of quenelle force-meat of chickens (mixed with chopped parsley and mushrooms), spread the whole of the inner part, about an inch thick; the kidney and fat should then be replaced in the centre, the loin rolled up tight, and its pillow-like shape be secured with small iron skewers, and fastened with string. Then put it in a large oval braising-pan on the drainer; garnish with the trimmings, a couple of carrots, onions, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs, two blades of mace, and four cloves; moisten with a quart of good consomme, cover with an oval of double paper well buttered, put the lid on, and then set the pan to boil on the fire ; after which put it to braise in the oven, or on a slow fire ; baste the veal frequently with its own liquor, and when it is done, drain, trim, and mask it all over with a coating of the following mixture:—To one or two yolks of eggs, add one ounce of fresh butter melted, and two tablespoonfuls of Bechamel179 REMOVES OF VEAL sauce, season with nutmeg, pepper and salt, mix this well together, and use it as directed above. Cover the whole with very fine bread- crumbs, mixed with one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkle some drops of melted or oiled butter over it, and placing the loin of veal on a buttered baking-sheet, put it in the oven to bake to a light-brown colour ; when done, dish it up, pour round it a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and garnish with a border of quenelles of veal or fowl decorated with truffles, and send to table. Loin of Veal a la Royale Prepare and braise four or five pounds of loin of veal, as directed in the preceding recipe ; when done, allow it partially to cool in its own braise, then strain it on the drainer of the braising-pan, and remove any grease there may be on it: cover it over with a quenelle farce of veal mixed with a little lobster coral; decorate the ends and centre with a bold design, using for the purpose some black truffles in order that the decoration may show well on the scarlet surface. Next place the loin of veal in a large oval braising-pan with just sufficient consomme to bathe it, to the depth of an inch, cover the loin with very thin layers of fat bacon or a well-buttered oval covering of paper; set it in the oven or on a moderate fire to boil or simmer gently for about three-quarters of an hour, when it will be done. Then drain the veal, and remove the bacon or paper used to cover it; pour round it a ragofit of button-mushrooms, small quenelles of fowl, cocks’ combs and kernels; glaze the loin of veal with thin light-coloured glaze, and send to table. Note.—This remove may also be decorated with ornamental skewers garnished with a piece of red tongue cut in the shape of a cock’s-comb, a large double white cock’s-comb, a mushroom, and a red quenelle ornamented with truffle. Roast Loin of Veal a la Financiere Procure five to six pounds of loin of veal cut square without the chump, and with the flap or skirt left on; bone it carefully, truss it tightly in the shape of a pillow, and after first laying the fillet bare, by paring off the whole of the skin and sinew which covers it, lard it closely as you would a fricandeau. When the loin is so far prepared, get it ready for braising in a large oval braising-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, a bunch of herbs, two blades of mace, and four cloves ; moisten with a quart of good stock, cover with an oval of paper well buttered, place the lid on the pan, and then set the veal to braise gently on the fire, taking care to baste it frequently with its own liquor. When done, drain, glaze, and dish it up; pour round it a rich brown binanciere ragoCit (see p. 44), garnish with a border of plain quenelles, and send to table. Roast Loin of Veal k la Creme To prepare this, follow the directions given for dressing neck of veal h. la Creme (see p. 174), garnish in the same manner, and send to table.THE MODERN COOK . i8o Roast Breast of Veal a I’Anglaise First take the tendons out of a small breast of veal intended to be dressed, and reserve them for an entree; then bone it completely, cut the ends square, and trim it; place about half a pound of well- seasoned veal-stuffing (see p. 468) along the centre of the inner part, roll the veal up tight so as to secure the stuffing in the middle, fasten it with string and small skewers. About an hour and a half before dinner-time cover it with buttered paper, and roast it either in the oven or before the fire; when done, dish it up, pour round it either some brown melted butter, light Espagnole sauce, or Bechamel, and send to table. Breast of Veal a la Bourgeoise Bone, trim, and roll a small breast of veal according to the preceding instructions; prepare it in an oval stew-pan with three ounces of fresh butter, and set it to simmer on a moderate fire, until it becomes browned all over; then add a bunch of herbs, moisten with a pint of good stock, and put it to braise gently on the fire or in the oven ; half an hour after, add two dozen small carrots cut in fancy shapes, and in another half hour add as many heads of middle-sized onions, a pinch of sugar, and a little salt. When the veal is done, take it up, and after taking away the strings and skewers, put it on a baking-sheet in the oven and glaze it; dish it up, garnish round with the glazed carrots and onions, and after removing all the fat from the surface of the stock or essence of the veal, and reducing it down to the consistency of half-glaze, use it to sauce the breast of veal, and send to table. Breast of Veal a la Windsor Bone and trim a small breast of veal, lay it on the table, and after spreading the inner part with six ounces of quenelle force-meat of veal or rabbits, at least an inch thick, place some square fillets of boiled tongue lengthwise, and between the fillets of tongue put some pieces of black truffles cut square to match the size of the pieces of tongue; then roll up the breast of veal carefully, secure its shape with the aid of small iron skewers and string, and to prevent the force-meat from escaping, cover the ends with layers of fat bacon. Put the veal thus prepared into an oval braising-pan with the trimmings, and the usual proportions of vegetables, etc., moisten with a pint or so of good stock, and set it to braise gently on a slow fire; when done, drain, glaze, and dish it up, garnish round with French beans cut in diamonds—which, after being boiled, .must be dressed with a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce, a little mignonette pepper, nutmeg, salt, fresh butter, and lemon juice; round these place a border of young carrots nicely glazed, and send to table. The braise in which the breast of veal is done should be freed from fat and clarified, and after being reduced to half glaze, served separately in a sauce-boat.181 REMOVES OF MUTTON Roast Breast of Veal a la Financiere Trim, stuff, and truss a small breast of veal as directed for the preparation of a breast of veal a 1’Anglaise, roast it in the same manner, dish it up, and surround it with a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44), and send to table. Rolled Breast of Veal k la Romaine Prepare a small breast of veal as for a la Windsor, and braise it accordingly; when done, glaze and dish it up, garnish it with lasagnes (see p 68) prepared as macaroni, surround the whole with a border of rice croquettes made with rice boiled in consomme, and to which should be added a little Allemande sauce, grated Parmesan cheese, nutmeg, and mignonette pepper ; and when the preparation is cold, mould the croquettes according to taste, bread-crumb and fry them a golden colour, and use them as directed. Send the remove to table accompanied with a sauce-boat containing Sicilian sauce (see P- T5)- Rolled Breast of Veal a la Royale For this preparation follow the directions given for loin of veal a la Royale. Note.—In addition to the foregoing methods of preparing breasts of veal for the table, they may, after being either roasted or braised, also be garnished with a Jardinibre or Macedoine of vegetables, with stewed peas, or with a ragofit it la Claremont, k la Toulouse, k la Chipolata, etc., as convenience or fancy may suggest. REMOVES OF LEGS, LOINS, AND NECKS OF MUTTON Boiled Leg of Mutton a l’Anglaise Choose a small leg of mutton, rather fat, and that has not hung more than three or four days; trim it, and put it on to boil in a stock-pot or braising-pan filled up with hot water; when it boils, remove the scum, and put it on the side of the stove to continue gently boiling for about one hour and a half: a tablespoonful of salt and a couple of turnips and carrots should be put into the pot to boil with the leg. When the mutton is done, drain and dish it up, garnish it round with mashed turnips dressed with a little sweet cream, a pat of butter, pepper and salt; mould the mashed turnips in the shape of large eggs with a tablespoon, and place these closely round the leg of mutton, introducing between each spoonful of mashed turnips a carrot cut into fancy shapes that has been boiled, either with the mutton or separately; pour some gravy under it, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and send it to table accompanied with a sauce-boat full of Caper sauce (see p. 181).THE MODERN COOK 182 Braised Leg of Mutton Garnished with Vegetables Trim a small leg of mutton, lard it with fillets of bacon cut a quarter of an inch square and about three inches long; place the leg of mutton in an oval braising-pan with two carrots, a stick of celery, a couple of onions, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a quart of fresh stock, cover with an oval buttered paper, and put on the lid; then set the braising-pan on the fire to boil gently for three hours, from time to time moistening the mutton with its liquor. When done, take it up with a little of its own liquor, and keep hot. Strain off the braise, remove the fat, clarify it in the usual manner, and when strained, reduce it to the consistency of half-glaze, and set it aside in a small bain-marie. Then glaze the leg of mutton nicely, and place it on its dish • garnish it round with alternate groups of cooked young carrots and turnips cut into shapes for the purpose, and afterwards boiled down in their own glaze, also some glazed young onions; pour the clarified essence under the leg of mutton, put the ruffle on the bone, and send to table. Braised Leg of Mutton a la Provengale Bone a small leg of mutton, commencing at the thigh-bone, by detaching the meat from round it with a knife, and throwing it back right up to the joint of the leg-bone; then cut the sinewy ligatures, and remove the thigh-bone entirely; saw off the shank and scrape the end of the bone remaining in the leg as in preparing a cutlet. Then lard the interior with seasoned lardoons or fillets of fat bacon, fill with the Provengale stuffing (described below), and sew the hollow opening whence the bone has been extracted with thin string; place the leg of mutton in a braising-pan with two carrots, two turnips, celery, six cloves, two blades of mace, a bunch of herbs, and a clove of garlic; moisten with a quart of good fresh stock, cover with an oval of buttered paper and the lid; set the pan on the stove to boil, and allow it to continue gently simmering for about three hours, taking care to moisten it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up and keep warm. Strain the remainder of the liquor and remove all the fat, clarify it, strain the essence and reduce it to half-glaze, and add it to some Gasconne sauce (see p. 17). Then dish up the mutton, garnish it round with tomatoes or mushrooms dressed au gratin (see p. 344), pour the Gasconne sauce under the remove, and send to table.—The Provengale stuffing for the leg of mutton is to be made as follows:— Chop four ounces of mushrooms very fine, and put them into a small stew-pan ; to these add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and shalot, with an equal quantity of chopped lean and fat ham, and a little grated lemon peel; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; set the whole on the fire and stir it with a wooden spoon for five minutes that the watery parts of the mushrooms may evaporate; add the yolks of one or two eggs, and after setting the yolks of eggs in the fine herbs by stirring the whole on the fire, add them to four ounces of quenelle force-meat made with the fillets of a partridge, mix these well together, and use the stuffing as directed above.183 REMOVES OF MUTTON Braised Leg of Mutton a la Soubise Bone a small leg of mutton, and lard it as in the foregoing recipe, stuff it with three-quarters of a pound of quenelle force-meat made with game, and secure the stuffing with string. Then prepare the leg of mutton for braising with a couple of carrots and onions, a head of celery, a bunch of herbs, four cloves, and two blades of mace ; moisten with a quart of common stock, cover these with buttered paper, then put on the lid and set it on a moderate fire to braise gently for about three hours, taking care to moisten it frequently with its liquor. When the mutton is braised perfectly tender, take it up on to a baking-sheet with some of the liquor in which it has been braised, and put it in the oven to finish glazing. In the meantime strain off and clarify the remainder of the liquor, and keep it in a small bain-marie; and after having glazed the mutton brightly, dish it up on a bed of well-made Soubise puree of onion (see p. 29), garnish round with potato croquettes, and send to table. The clarified essence, after being reduced to half-glaze, should be sent to table in a sauce-boat to be served with the mutton when carved; if poured round the mutton, it would mix with the Soubise sauce. Braised Leg of Mutton a la Bretonne Prepare and braise a small leg of mutton as directed in the fore- going recipe; when done, glaze and dish it up on a bed of white haricot beans dressed it la Bretonne (see p. 353); garnish with a border of potatoes cut in the shape of large olives, and fried in butter to a golden colour; ornament the bone with a paper ruffle, and send to table. Braised Leg of Mutton a la Jardiniere Bone and braise a small leg of mutton according to the preceding directions; and when done, glaze and dish it up; garnish with alternate groups of prepared small carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, French beans cut in diamonds, small new potatoes, asparagus-heads, and green peas—the whole or any part of these, according to the season. Pour round the mutton some Espagnoie sauce in which has been incorporated, after reduction, the clarified essence in which the mutton has been braised; put on a ruffle, and send to table. Note.—In addition to the foregoing garnishes for braised legs of mutton, they may also be appropriately served with new potatoes ii la Maitre d’Hotel, fresh haricot beans, stewed peas, and a border of young carrots glazed, artichoke-bottoms cut in quarters and tossed in Allemande sauce, or with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35). Braised Saddle of Mutton a la Macedoine Procure a small well-covered saddle of mutton, and extract the spine-bone with the knife, without injuring the fillets or perforating any part of the fat which covers them ; trim the tail-end quite round, cut the flaps square, season the inner part of the saddle with pepperTHE MODERN COOK 184 and salt, and having rolled up each flap or skirt-piece, so as to give it a tight and neat appearance, secure its shape by passing some string round it several times. After this, the mutton should be prepared for braising with carrots, onions, celery, herbs, cloves, and mace; moisten with a sufficient quantity of good stock to nearly cover the mutton ; place a buttered paper and the lid over all, set the braising-pan on a moderate fire, and after it has boiled, let it continue gently braising for about four hours—carefully basting it frequently with its own liquor. When it is done, take it up and put it in the oven to dry the moisture from the surface preparatory to its being glazed; then dish it up, and garnish with prepared small vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, cauliflowers, French beans, asparagus-heads, small new potatoes,, and green peas, each separately tossed in a little Allemande sauce, pour some Allemande sauce round the saddle of mutton, and send to table. Note.—Instead of saucing this remove with Allemande, Espagnole may be used if preferred, or even the clarified and reduced essence in which the mutton has been braised; but it is essential that the vegetables intended to be used for garnishing should be dressed with Allemande or Bechamel sauce. Saddles of mutton prepared and braised according to the foregoing instructions may also be sent to table in all the varieties described for braised legs of mutton. Boiled Neck of Mutton a l’Anglaise Procure a small neck of mutton (the best end), and shorten the rib-bones; next detach the spine-bone from the fleshy part of the neck, and afterwards saw off the whole of the spine adhering to the base of the ribs; pare the fat smooth, and about two hours before dinner-time, put the neck on to boil in a stew-pan with water, a little salt, and two carrots and turnips. When they are done, dish them up so as that the uncovered ends of the rib-bones may fall in between each other—representing a chevaux-de-frise. Garnish with mashed turnips moulded in the shape of large eggs with a tablespoon, and with carrots cut into fancy shapes between each spoonful of mashed turnips, or else placed round in a row. Send two sauce-boats filled with gravy and Caper sauce (see p. 21). Braised Neck of Mutton k 1’Irlandaise Trim a neck of mutton as directed in the previous recipe, put to braise in an oval stew-pan with carrot, onion, celery, and sprigs of parsley; moisten with stock, and put to boil on the stove; after which set them by the side of a moderate fire, and while the mutton is being braised cut twelve large potatoes in the shape of small eggs, and place them in a stew-pan with two or three small onions; season with pepper and salt, moisten with a pint of stock, and put them on a moderate fire to boil gently, taking care that the potatoes are kept as whole as possible, although they must be thoroughly boiled. When the mutton is done, take up, trim if necessary, and dish up as directed in the foregoing recipe; strain the stock in which the185 REMOVES OF LAMB mutton has been boiled, remove all fat and reduce it to half-glaze, add part of it to the potatoes, and with these garnish the mutton round neatly, pour the essence under, and send to table. Braised Neck of Mutton a la Jardiniere Trim a small neck of mutton and prepare it for braising with carrot, onion, celery, sprigs of parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a quart of stock, cover with an oval piece of buttered paper and the lid. Put to braise gently on a moderate fire for about two hours; when done, glaze and dish up, so as to give an appearance of chevaux-de-frise \ garnish with a well-prepared Jardiniere of every variety of small vegetables in season, sauce with Espagnole sauce, and send to table. Neck of Mutton Larded and Braised a l’Allemande Trim, lard, and prepare for braising a small neck of mutton as directed in the preceding recipe; and about two hours before dinner- time, set on the fire to braise in the usual manner. When done, glaze and dish up, surround with alternate groups of quenelles of potatoes and prunes stewed in red wine; pour some German sweet sauce (see p. 15) under, and send to table. Neck of Mutton Larded a la Soubise Trim and lard a small neck of mutton; prepare for braising with carrot, onion, celery, a small bunch of herbs, three cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a pint of good stock, cover with an oval piece of buttered paper as well as the lid of the brasier. Set over a moderate fire to braise gently for about an hour and a half; when done, glaze and dish up (having previously poured in the dish a rich purde of onions a la Soubise, see p. 29), garnish with a border of potato croquettes, and send to table. Note.—Larding may be dispensed with, when considered objec- tionable, without deteriorating much from the excellence of any of the foregoing methods of dressing necks of mutton. It is, however, generally regarded as a proper characteristic of these dishes. In addition to the above methods for garnishing braised necks of mutton, they may also be finished by placing round them a garnish of stewed peas, asparagus, glazed young carrots and turnips, sauerkraut, or tomatoes. Serve with Piquante sauce. REMOVES OF LAMB Baron of Lamb a la Montmorency Procure the hind-quarters of a fine fat lamb, take off the trans- parent skin which covers the fat of the saddle, and with the point of a small knife make a slight incision, in an oval form, all over the surface of the upper part of the legs; and afterwards with a sharp, thin-bladed knife pare off the skin so as to leave the place bare; this will give to the surface of each leg the appearance ofi86 THE MODERN COOK fricandeaux prepared for larding. Then saw off the shank-bones, as well as the projecting part of the spine-bone; cut off the tail, and truss the skirts neatly up with small skewers. Cover the lamb with buttered white paper. Two hours and a half before dinner put to roast either in the oven or in front of the fire, and about ten minutes before it is done, take off the paper; glaze it well over, then dish it up; garnish with groups of button-mushrooms, truffles, fine white cocks’-combs, and scallops of red tongue; round the whole place a border of spoon-quenelles decorated with truffles, and a lamb’s sweetbread larded between each quenelle ; sauce with good Allemande sauce; glaze the meat brightly, and send to table. Baron of Lamb Larded a la Printaniere Trim, lard, and roast a baron of lamb according to the directions contained in the foregoing recipe; dish it up, pour round it some Printaniere sauce (see p. 468), garnish a la Printanihre (p. 163) and with groups of small new potatoes first partly boiled, and afterwards fried a golden colour in clarified butter, and send to table. Baron of Lamb a la Jardiniere Prepare and roast the baron of lamb according to the preceding directions; and when dished up, garnish it round with a rich and varied Jardiniere of such vegetables as are in season; sauce the lamb round with Espagnole sauce, and send to table. Baron of Lamb a la Maitre d’Hotel Prepare the baron of lamb as previously directed, dish it up and pour round it a rich Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. n); garnish with alternate groups of small buds of cauliflowers and fried olive- shaped potatoes, and send to table. Note.—Hind-quarters of lamb should be dressed in the same manner as barons of lamb, and may therefore be garnished with every sort of sauce and garnish used for the latter. When the larding is dispensed with, the whole of the fat, as a matter of course, should be retained on the surface of the lamb to protect the meat from losing its juices. Saddle of Lamb a la Dauphine Procure a small saddle of lamb, bone it, and having laid it on the table, season the inside with pepper and salt, and stuff with about one pound' of quenelle force-meat of veal or fowl, about an inch in thickness, placing on the force-meat some fillets of tongue and truffles; after which, fold the skirts of the saddle over—so as to encase the force-meat, etc., thereby giving it a plump appearance; and in order to secure its shape, cover the saddle with a piece of buttered paper, and tie the ends with string. Then place the saddle so prepared on the drainer of an oval braising-pan, cover it with the bones and trimmings; garnish with carrot, onion, celery, parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with sufficient good stock to cover the lamb, and set it to braise gently on a moderate fire for about two187 REMOVES OF LAMB hours and a half. When the lamb is done, put it in press between two dishes until it is nearly cold. Then trim it neatly, and cover it over with a coating of well-seasoned reduced Allemande sauce, which must be allowed to set, then cover with a beaten egg and very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; sprinkle some drops of melted fresh butter with a paste-brush over the whole, and put it on a baking sheet in the oven to acquire a light-brown or fawn colour. The saddle of lamb being ready, dish it up, garnish with some bouchees of wild rabbits a la Pompadour (seep. 297); sauce round and under the lamb with some White Italian sauce (see p. 5), and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Godard Bone, stuff, and braise a small saddle of lamb, according to the preceding directions; when done, put it in press between two dishes till cold. It should then be trimmed neatly without removing any of the fat, or diminishing its size, and put into a deep baking-sheet with the broth in which it has been braised—-previously clarified, and afterwards reduced to half-glaze for the purpose ; put a buttered oval piece of white paper on the top, and, half an hour before dinner, put it in the oven to be warmed and glazed a fine light colour. Then dish it up, and pour round it a rich ragotit h la Godard, composed of cocks’ combs and kernels, button-mushrooms, small sweetbreads cut into scallops, and truffles,—the whole to be tossed in some good Allemande sauce. Put a border of large quenelles decorated with truffles, and some larded lamb’s-heart sweetbreads placed alter- nately round the remove, and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Financiere Prepare a saddle of lamb exactly as the foregoing, and when dished up, garnish it with a rich Financibre ragout (see p. 44); glaze the remove, and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Royale For the preparation of this remove, follow the directions for loin of veal h. la Royale (see p. 179). Saddle of Lamb a la Macedoine Bone, stuff, and braise a saddle of lamb as for a la Godard (see above), warm and glaze it also in the same manner; dish it up, garnish with a rich and well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables tossed in some Allemande sauce; surround the remove with a border of cooked artichoke-bottoms, or small turnips cut in the shape of cups, and filled, half with green peas, and the remainder with very small trimmed or scooped carrots; nicely glaze the remove, and send to table. Saddle of Lamb a la Milanaise Prepare and braise a saddle of lamb, as previously directed ; when glazed, dish it up, and garnish with macaroni prepared as follows :— Boil half a pound of macaroni in boiling water; when done,i88 THE MODERN COOK drain it on a sieve, and afterwards on a clean napkin, cut it into pieces two inches long, and put this into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a small piece of glaze, a gill of good white sauce, mignonette pepper, and a little salt; toss the whole well together over the fire until quite hot, and then use it to place round the remove, likewise some truffles, and tongue cut into small circular scallops; these are to be warmed in a little half- glaze, and placed round the remove in alternate groups with the macaroni; glaze the saddle of lamb before serving, and send to table with it a sauce-boat containing some of the clarified and reduced stock in which the lamb has been braised, to be handed round with the remove. CALVES’-HEAD AND OX-CHEEKS, Etc. Calf’s=Head a l’Anglaise Procure half a calfs-head, bone it in the manner described for preparing mock-turtle soup (see p. 95); then wash it thoroughly in cold water, after which put it on the fire in a large stew-pan with cold water, and as soon as it boils, skim it well, and allow it to boil for five minutes, then take it up and put it into cold water to cool. Next drain it on a cloth, cut the ear out, leaving a sufficient base round it to allow it to stand up; next cut the cheek, etc., into two inches square round the angles, and pare off any rough skin there may be about them; this done, proceed to rub each piece of calfs-head with lemon juice, then place the whole, including the tongue, in a large stew-pan, with carrot, onion, celery, parsley, herbs, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a little sherry or Madeira, and a pint of good white stock, and set the whole to braise gently on a moderate fire for about two hours. When the pieces of calfs-head are done, drain, and dish them up in a close circle round the tongue (previously trimmed, glazed, and placed in the centre of the dish); then cut the brains into scallops, and place them round the outside of the dish, and at one end place the ear, previously trimmed and curled; pour some parsley and butter over the whole, and send to table. The calf’s ear should be trimmed as follows: — First drain it upon a napkin, then scrape off all the glutinous surface from the thin part with the edge of a spoon, leaving the white gristly membrane quite clear; wash it in warm water, put it back upon the napkin, and then slit it into narrow strips, taking care not to run the knife through the ends, but merely from the inner part to within half an inch of the point, so that, when the ear is turned down, it may present the appearance of a looped frill. It is customary to send a piece of boiled streaky bacon to table when calf’s-head is intended to be eaten plain. A boatful of Devil’s sauce (see p. 22), as an accessory to plain calf’s-head, is generally preferred to parsley and butter, the latter being considered too insipid.CALVES’-HEAD AND OX-CHEEKS, ETC. 189 Calf’s-Head with Piquante Sauce Prepare half a calf’s-head as directed in the preceding recipe ; then put about four ounces of chopped beef-suet into a large stew-pan with carrot, onion, celery, parsley, four cloves, and two blades of mace; stir the whole with a wooden spoon over the fire until the suet is melted, then add the pulp of a lemon and a tablespoonful of flour; moisten with two or three quarts of common white stock or water, add a little salt and a few peppercorns, and then set the calf’s-head to boil gently for about two hours. When it is done, drain the pieces upon a napkin, and dish them up neatly round the tongue trimmed and glazed, and placed in the centre of the dish place the ear, after trimming it, at one end, and on either side of the tongue place half the brains (which should be boiled in vinegar and water with a little salt, and some fat from the stock-pot), make an incision lengthwise in each half portion of the brains, then pour a well-made Piquante sauce (see p. 6) over the whole; garnish round with fried croutons, and send to table. Calf’s-head, prepared according to the foregoing directions, may also be served with either Italian, Ravigote, Tomato, Poivrade, or Poor Man’s sauce. Calf’s-Head a la Financiere Bone half a calfs-head, blanch it in boiling water for about ten minutes on the fire, then put it into cold water for ten minutes ; drain it upon a napkin, trim off all the rough parts, and cut it into large scallops, leaving the tongue and ear whole as usual; the brains should be carefully taken out of the head, and boiled separately, as directed in previous recipes. The pieces of calf’s-head, after being first rubbed over with lemon juice, should be placed in a braising-pan with a little sherry or Madeira, a pint of good stock, carrot, onion, celery, parsley, etc.; four cloves, two blades of mace and a few peppercorns; cover with a thickly buttered oval piece of strong white paper, and put on the lid; then set it to braise gently for about two hours. Twenty minutes before dinner-time drain the pieces of calf’s head on to a napkin, dish them up in the form of a wreath round the base of a fried croustade (previously stuck on the centre of the dish with a little flour and white of egg mixed together), at one end place the ear, on the croustade place the tongue (separated down the centre, and rather spread out) and the brains ; around these should be stuck in the croustade three or four ornamental skewers, each furnished with a double cock’s-comb, a large mushroom, a truffle, and a crayfish; pour round the whole a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44), and send to table. Calf’s-Head & la Beauvaux Select a small calf’s-head, bone it carefully, as before directed, keeping the skin as whole as possible. When the head has been boned, wash it thoroughly, wipe it with a clean cloth, season insideTHE MODERN COOK 190 with pepper and salt, and then fill up the entire vacant space occasioned by the extraction of the skull and jaws with a pound of well-seasoned quenelle force-meat made of veal, mixed with some chopped parsley and mushrooms; when the calf’s-head is thus again filled up to its original size by means of the force-meat, it must be secured by sewing up all the apertures with string and a trussing- needle of proper size. When this part of the process is completed, roll the calfs-head up tightly in a well-buttered paper saturated with lemon juice (to keep the head white); then place the calfs-head in a braising-pan with four ounces of chopped suet, carrot, onion, celery, cloves, mace, peppercorns, and a tablespoonful of salt; moisten with a quart of good common white stock, cover with the lid, and set it to boil gently for about two hours. About half an hour before dinner-time take the calf’s-head up on a dish, remove the paper, trim the ears, slit them and turn them down that they may appear frilled; then place the calfs-head, perfectly drained from any moisture, on the centre of the dish, and remove all the twine with which it has been sewn up, and mask it all over, excepting the ears, with a preparation of yolks of eggs, mixed with a pat of melted butter and seasoned with pepper and salt and a little nutmeg; then cover the whole with fine bread-crumbs, fried with a little butter to a golden colour, and place the head in the oven for five minutes that the bread-crumbs may dry on, taking care to cover the ears with wet paper to keep them white and prevent them from cocking up and spoiling their effect. As soon as the bread-crumbs have dried on remove the paper from the ears, sauce round with a ragout composed of the tongue cut into scallops, also the brains, some button-mushrooms, and green gherkins, cut into the shape of olives; allow these to boil up for two or three minutes in a well-made Poivrade sauce; garnish round with some quenelles of veal or chicken, coloured with Ravigote or spinach- green (see p. 74); stick in four silver ornamental skewers, garnished with a crest of red tongue, a large truffle, and a decorated quenelle, and send to table. Calf’s = Head a la Tortue Bone, blanch, and trim half a calfs-head, cut it up into large scallops, keep the ear whole, neatly trim the pieces, and toss them in the juice of a lemon ; put them into a stew-pan with carrot, onion, celery, herbs, cloves, mace, and a few peppercorns; moisten with a glass of Madeira or sherry, and a pint of good stock ; cover with a well-buttered stiff paper, and put on the lid; set the whole to braise on the stove for about two hours. When the pieces of calfs- head are done, drain them on a napkin, and afterwards dish them up in the form of a close wreath round the base of a fried bread croustade; put the ear at one end; next place the tongue, cut down its centre, and spread out on the top of the croustade ; on this put the brains, which must be kept whole and white, and round these, on the croustade, should be stuck three ornamental silver skewers, garnished with a double cock’s-comb, a large mushroom,CALVES’-HEAD AND OX-CHEEKS, ETC. 191 a quenelle, a truffle, and a large crayfish; sauce round with a well- made Turtle sauce (see p. 4); garnish the dish between the spaces of the ears with four larded and glazed sweetbreads, and eight decorated quenelles, and send to table. Calf s=Head a la Marigny Prepare and braise a calf’s-head as directed for dressing a calf’s- head a la Beauvaux. When done, drain all the moisture from it, place the head on a dish, remove the string, trim the ears, and then sauce it all over (the ears excepted) with a well-seasoned Ravigote sauce; garnish round with a border of crayfish and green gherkins, and send to table. Note.—It is not necessary, in all cases, to garnish each remove as richly as heretofore explained; many of the accessories, on every- day occasions, might be regarded as extravagant. Ox=Cheek a la Flamande Procure one fresh ox-cheek, bone and trim it, and then place in a large oval braising-pan on the drainer, garnish with the usual proportions of vegetables, etc., add the trimmings, moisten with sufficient broth from the stock-pot to cover the whole, and set to boil very gently by the side of the stove-fire for about two and a half hours. When the ox-cheek is thoroughly braised and become quite tender, take it up carefully, and put in press between two dishes, until cold; then trim neatly, giving an oval or oblong shape, and put into a deep fricandeau pan with the broth in which it has been braised (clarified and reduced to half its original quantity), and set by in the larder till about three-quarters of an hour before dishing up ; then put the ox-cheek in the oven, or on a slow fire, to get gradually warm, and glaze it brightly with stock. Next place it on a dish, garnish round with a border of Brussels sprouts boiled green, and tossed over the fire in a stew-pan, with butter, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; or when these fail, use braised cabbages ; then add a border of alternate groups of well-prepared and nicely glazed carrots and turnips, cut into fancy shapes, and also some small-sized glazed onions. Sauce with an Espagnole or Poivrade sauce, and send to table. Ox=Cheek a la Polonaise Bone and trim an ox-cheek; prepare it for braising as directed in the foregoing recipe; moisten with a little sherry, and allow to simmer on the fire for about ten minutes, add sufficient stock to cover, and again set on the stove to boil; skim and put by the side of the fire, to continue gently boiling for two and a half hours. When the ox-cheek is sufficiently braised, and become quite tender, put in press between two dishes; when cold, trim, and afterwards cut across the grain, into very thin slices. Then place a number of triangular croutons of fried bread, in an oval form, on the dish, within two inches of the edge, and within this coronet place a layer of the thin slices of the ox cheeks, over which spread some sauce made in the following manner:—-THE MODERN COOK 192 Shred the rind of one orange very thin and perfectly free from pith, boil it in water for five minutes, drain in cold water, and then add to it a pint of good Espagnole sauce, a tablespoonful of red- currant jelly, a chopped shalot, a little grated nutmeg, and a squeeze of lemon juice; boil the whole together, stirring it the while with a wooden spoon, and use this preparation as directed above. Having thus continued alternately, adding layers of ox-cheek and sauce, until the whole forms a dome, mask it over with the remainder of the sauce, and after smoothing the surface with the blade of a knife, cover it with some light-coloured raspings. About three-quarters of an hour before dinner put the dish in the oven to allow the preparation to get thoroughly warm ; garnish with a border of glazed onions, pour some of the same sauce round it—this, however, must be thinner than that directed to be used for mixing with the ox-cheek —and serve. Ox=Cheek a l’AIlemande Braise the ox-cheek as directed in the foregoing recipe; when done, put in press, and after being trimmed, place on a buttered baking- sheet, and mask all over with the following preparation :—Take four ounces of grated raspings, and mix into a paste with a little port wine, a teaspoonful of cinnamon, and one ounce of sugar ; mix the whole well together, and spread it all over the ox-cheek. Three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time put the ox-cheek in the oven to get warmed through; then place on a dish, garnish with groups of small quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) and stewed prunes, sauce with German sweet sauce (see p. 15), and send to table. Ox-Cheek a la Portuguaise Braise the ox-cheek; when done, put in press, trim, and place in a fricandeau pan with the clarified and reduced stock in which it has been braised ; and having warmed it in this, and glazed it, dish up; garnish with a border of eggs farcis, or stuffed and fried, pour some Portuguese sauce (see p. 15) round the ox-cheek, and send to table. Ox=Cheek a la Pompadour Braise the ox-cheek until very tender, and after having put it in press, and trimmed it, mask over with a coating of reduced Atelets sauce (see p. 10); when the sauce has become set by cooling on the ox-cheek, egg and bread-crumb with very fine bread-crumbs mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; sprinkle over a little butter, place on a well-buttered baking-sheet, and an hour before dinner put in the oven to.bake to a golden colour; dish up, garnish with a ragout of ox-palates in a Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), finish with a border of croquettes of ox-palates, and send to table. Note.—Besides the foregoing methods of dressing ox-cheeks, they may also be served with a Jardiniere, Macedoine, tomatoes farcis (see p. 344), braised red cabbage, Soubise or Bretonne purees, stewed peas or asparagus peas.REMOVES OF PORK AND ROAST SUCKING-PIG 193 Ox=Tongue with Aspic Jelly Truss a small pickled tongue into the shape of an arch. Boil it for about three hours; when done, plunge it in cold water and pull off the outer skin. Then truss the tongue again in the form of an arch, put it in press sideways between two dishes, and, when cold, trim it smoothly, or with a small sharp knife carve the surface so as to represent leaves and flowers; glaze over brightly, and place upon a dish. Finally, garnish and ornament the tongue with aspic jelly (see p. 24), and serve. REMOVES OF PORK AND ROAST SUCKING-PIG Boiled Leg of Pork a l’Anglaise Saw off the shank-bone of a small salted leg of dairy-fed pork, then put it into a large braising-pan or stock-pot; fill this nearly full with cold water, and add two carrots, as many turnips, one stick of celery, and an onion stuck with three cloves. Set the pork to boil gently by the side of the stove-fire for about two and a half hours— the exact time depending on its size. While the pork is boiling, prepare a dozen small turnips and as many young carrots; boil these separ- ately, and reserve them for garnishing the remove. When the pork is done, drain, trim, and dish it up; place the carrots and turnips alternately round the remove, pour some plain gravy under it, put a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. A peas-pudding is usually served with boiled pork made as follows :—Soak half a pint of yellow split peas in cold water all night; drain and tie them rather loosely in a pudding-cloth, and boil them with the pork—about two hours will suffice. Take them up, pound them in a mortar with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, and rub them through a fine wire-sieve; then put this puree into a stew-pan, add the yolk of one egg, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mix the whole well together with a wooden spoon, and after having spread a napkin with fresh butter, place the puree in the centre, draw the corners up on the left hand, and with the right tie up the pudding with string; then place it to boil for an hour, after which turn it out carefully on to a vegetable dish, and serve. Boiled Leg of Pork a l’Allemande Pickle a small leg of pork with one ounce of saltpetre, three ounces of moist sugar, half a pint of vinegar, cloves, mace, sweet- basil, and marjoram, thyme, and bay-leaf, and one and a half pounds of common salt; boil it as directed in the foregoing recipe. When done, dish it up, and after garnishing it with sauerkraut (see p. 39), surround it with a border of glazed carrots, turnips, and onions ; pour some Poivrade sauce over it, and send to table. oi94 THE MODERN COOK Roast Leg of Pork k l’Anglaise Procure a small leg of fresh dairy-fed pork; make a large incision just below the knuckle, between the skin and meat, for the purpose of introducing the stuffing of sage and onion, which must be secured by sewing it up with string; then with a sharp-pointed knife score it all over in the following manner:—With the left hand hold the pork firmly, and with a very sharp knife score the skin across in parallel lines a quarter of an inch apart; then roast it for about two hours; when done, dish it up, pour a rich brown gravy under it, and send to table with apple sauce. The stuffing for the pork should be thus prepared :—Chop a dozen sage leaves and two large parboiled onions, boil these in water for three minutes, and after having drained them on a sieve, put them into a stew-pan with pepper and salt, and a pat of butter; set the stuffing to simmer gently over a very slow fire for ten minutes, and then use it as directed above. Roast Loin of Pork Trim, score, and separate the bones of a small loin of pork with a chopper or meat-saw; make an incision in the upper part of the loin for placing the stuffing, and sew it up with string. About an hour and a quarter before dinner-time roast the pork, and, when done, dish it up; pour some brown gravy under it, garnish it round with a border of small potatoes fried to a light colour, and send to table with apple sauce. Roast Neck of Pork Saw the chine-bone neatly off, stuff the neck of pork with sage and onion, roast, and dish it up as directed for the loin, and serve. Roast Griskin of Pork The piece called griskin is that part of the pig which is cut from the side of a bacon-hog, being the lean from the neck and loin : this should be lightly sprinkled with salt the day before dressing it for table. About an hour and a quarter before dinner put it to roast, and when the griskin has been cooking an hour, shake some flour over it with a dredger, and afterwards sprinkle some chopped sage and onions upon it. When the pork is done, dish it up, pour some brown gravy under it, and send to table with a sauce-boat containing sage and onion sauce, the latter to be prepared as follows:—Chop a dozen sage leaves and two parboiled onions, and after having boiled them two minutes in water, drain, and put them in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, pepper and salt; set these to simmer on a very slow fire for ten minutes, and then add half a pint of good brown gravy, boil the whole together for five minutes, and serve. Roast Sucking'-Pig a I’Anglaise In selecting a sucking-pig for the table, those of about three weeks old are generally preferred, their meat being more delicate than when allowed to grow larger. Let the pig be prepared forREMOVES OF PORK AND ROAST SUCKING-PIG 195 dressing in the usual way, that is, scalded, drawn, etc., pettitoes cut off, and the paunch filled with stuffing previously prepared for the purpose as follows:—Chop two large parboiled onions and a dozen sage-leaves, boil them in water for two minutes, and after having drained the sage and onion, place it in a stew-pan with a pat of butter, pepper and salt, and set the whole to simmer gently for ten minutes on a very slow fire; then add two or three ounces of bread- crumbs, two pats of butter, and a little beaten egg; stir the whole over the fire for five minutes, and then use the stuffing as before directed. When the sucking-pig is stuffed, sew the paunch up with string, and roast. The pig will require about two hours to roast thoroughly, and should be frequently basted with a paste-brush dipped in salad oil. (Oil is better adapted for this purpose than either dripping or butter, giving more crispness to the skin ; when basted with oil the pig will, while roasting, acquire a more even and a finer colour.) When done, take it up and immediately cut the head off with a sharp knife, and lay it on a plate. Next cut the pig in two by dividing it first with a sharp knife straight down the back to the spine, finishing with a meat-saw; a large dish should be held under the pig while it is thus being divided, into which it may fall when completely cut through; place the two sides back to back on the dish without disturbing the stuffing, split the head in two, put the brains in a small stew-pan, trim off the snout and jaws, leaving only the cheeks and ears; place these one at each end of the dish, surround the remove with a border of small potatoes fried to a golden colour in a little clarified butter; pour under some rich brown gravy, and send to table with the following sauce:—To the brains, put into a small stew-pan as before directed, add a tablespoonful of blanched chopped parsley, pepper and salt, a piece of glaze the size of a large walnut, a pint of well-made butter sauce, and the juice of a lemon : stir the whole well together over the fire, and when quite hot send it to table separately in a boat, to be handed round with the sucking- pig- Roast Sucking-Pig a la Perigord Procure a plump, fresh-killed sucking-pig, and stuff the inside with the following preparation:—Scrub and wash one pound of fresh truffles, peel them and afterwards cut them into pieces resembling small walnuts, but without trimming them much; pound the parings and trimmings in a mortar with about two ounces of butter; put them into a stew-pan with the truffles, and add about four ounces of chopped fat bacon, a bay-leaf, and a few sprigs of thyme and sweet- basil chopped fine, some grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, a small clove of garlic, and four ounces of fat livers of fowls pounded for the purpose. Set the whole over a moderate fire, stirring it the while with a wooden spoon ; when the truffles have simmered on the stove for about ten minutes, take them off and allow them to cool, fill the sucking-pig with the mixture, sew up with string, and roast it as directed in the preceding recipe; when done, dish up in the same manner, taking care to serve with it all the truffles; pour some P^rigueux sauce (see p. 7) under, and send to table.THE MODERN COOK 196 Roast Sucking-Pig a la Chipolata Roast three dozen chestnuts, peel and then boil them with a quart of consomme for twenty minutes; reserve half in a small stew- pan, and mix the remainder with half a pound of pork-sausage meat, and use this kind of stuffing to fill a sucking-pig; sew it up with a trussing-needle and string and roast it in the usual manner; when done, dish it up as directed in the foregoing recipes, taking care that the stuffing should be kept as whole as possible in the separated sides. Garnish with a richly varied Chipolata ragofit (see p. 44), and again round this place eight decorated quenelles; glaze the pig, and serve. Roast Sucking=Pig a la Proven^ale Roast three dozen large chestnuts, remove their husks while yet hot, and after pounding them in a mortar with two ounces of butter, rub the mixture through a wire-sieve, and put the puree into a stew- pan ; add a few chives, a sprig or two of sweet-basil, parsley, thyme, and one bay-leaf well chopped, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the yolk of one egg; mix well together, and use this preparation to stuff a plump sucking-pig, and roast it in the manner already directed. Then cut it up and place it upon the dish, garnish the remove with a border of tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344), pour some Gasconne or Provengale sauce under it, and send to table. Roast Sucking-Pig' a la Napolitaine Take four ounces of polenta,1 mix it in a stew-pan with a pint of good consomme, one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and the same quantity of butter; season with nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir the whole on the fire quickly till it boils, and then continue stirring until it assumes the appearance of a soft paste, when add two ounces of picked Sultana raisins and a good tablespoon of orange marmalade; mix the whole lightly together, and with it stuff a sucking-pig; roast it in the usual way, divide and dish it up, garnish with a border of polpettes (see p. 317), pour a well-made Neapolitan sauce (see p. 16) under the pig, glaze, and send to table. Note.—In addition to the foregoing different methods for dressing sucking-pigs, they may also be served a la Financifere, with Poivrade, Tomato, Maitre d’Hotel, Piquante, Robert, or Bretonne sauce. BRAISED AND BAKED HAM Braised Ham with Spinach, etc. When about to dress a ham, care must be taken after it has been trimmed, and the knuckle-bone removed, that it is put to soak in a large pan filled with cold water—the length of time it should remain in soak depending partly upon its degree of moisture, partly whether the ham be new or seasoned. If the ham readily yields to the 1 A kind of flour much used in Italy, obtained from Indian corn.BRAISED AND BAKED HAM 197 pressure of the hand, it is probably new; for such as these, a few hours’ soaking will suffice; but when hams are properly seasoned, they should be soaked for twenty-four hours. Foreign hams, how- ever, require to be soaked much longer, varying in time from two to four days and nights. The water in which they are soaked should be changed once every twelve hours in winter, and twice during that time in summer; it is necessary to be particular also in scraping off the slimy surface from the hams previous to replacing them in the water to finish soaking. When the ham has been trimmed and soaked, let it be boiled in water for an hour, and then scraped and washed in cold water; place it in a braising-pan with two carrots, as many onions, a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, two blades of mace, and four cloves; moisten with sufficient common stock or broth to float the ham, and then set it on the fire to braise gently for about four hours. To obtain tender- ness and mellowness, so essential in a well-dressed ham, it must never be allowed to boil, but merely to simmer very gently by a slow fire. This rule applies to the braising of all salted or cured meats. When the ham is done, draw the pan in which it has braised away from the fire, and set it to cool in the open air, allowing the ham to remain in the braise; by this means it will retain all its moisture, for when the ham is taken out of the braise and put on a dish to get cold, all its richness exudes from it. The ham, having partially cooled in its braise, should be taken out and trimmed, and afterwards placed in a braising-pan with some of its own stock; and about three-quarters of an hour before dinner, put either in the oven or on a slow fire. When warmed through, place the ham on a baking-dish in the oven to dry the surface, then glaze it; replace it in the oven again for about three minutes to dry, and glaze it again; by that time the ham, if properly attended to, will present a bright appearance. Put it now on its dish, and garnish with well-dressed spinach (see p. 27), placed round the ham in tablespoonfuls, shaped like so many eggs; pour some bright Espagnole sauce round the base, put a ruffle on the bone, and serve. Note.—Any of our home-cured hams, dressed according to the foregoing directions, may also be served with a garnish of asparagus peas, young carrots, a Jardiniere, Macedoine, green peas, broad beans, French beans, or Brussels sprouts. Westphalia Ham a 1’Essence Trim and remove the knuckle-bone from a small Westphalia ham, and let it soak in cold water for two or three days, according to the probable length of time it may have been cured; then boil it in water for an hour, and after having washed it in cold water, put it into a large braising-pan, with two carrots, as many onions, a head of celery, a bouquet garni, four cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a little wine, and sufficient stock to float the ham. Then set the ham to boil, or rather to simmer, very gently on a slow fire, from five to six hours ; taking care during the process of braising19$ THE MODERN COOK to probe it occasionally after the first four hours, in order to ascertain how much longer it may be necessary for it to remain on the fire. When the ham is braised sufficiently tender, and after it has been allowed to remain in its own liquor for an hour or so, drain or remove the rind to within four inches of the knuckle-bone; this portion of the rind must be cut off with a sharp knife so as to form a neat design in the shape of leaves, palms, or scallops, disposed in a fan-like form. Trim the fat of the ham smooth, without remov- ing any more of it than is necessary to give it a neat appearance. Put the ham in the oven on a baking-sheet for ten minutes, first absorbing every particle of grease from the surface with a clean cloth; then glaze it, replace in the oven again for five minutes; glaze once more, and place it on a dish; garnish round with any of the dressed vegetables indicated for Braised Ham, with spinach, etc. (see p. 197). Sauce with bright Espagnole sauce, mixed before reduction with a glass of sherry, and about half a pint of the liquor in which the ham has been braised; place a ruffle on the bone, and send to table. Baked Westphalia Ham Trim, and partially bone, a small Westphalia ham, by removing the knuckle; soak it, as usual, in cold water, for forty-eight hours at least, and afterwards boil it in water for half an hour; this part of the operation should be executed in time to allow the ham to soak a day and night previously to its being dressed in some wine mirepoix (see p. 57) in a deep baking-dish. Cover the ham with two sheets of oiled paper, and over the whole lay a covering of paste, such as is used to cover venison with, taking care to secure it thoroughly all round so as to prevent the escape of the volatile properties of the essence of the ham, etc., which by condensation, and subsequent absorption, impart to the ham a peculiarly fine flavour. Having prepared the ham in every particular according to the above directions, about five hours before dinner-time let it be put in the oven to bake slowly, observing that the heat of the oven should be moderate, in order that the moisture be not reduced so as to render the ham dry, which would spoil it entirely. When the ham has been in the oven for about four hours, take it out of its braise, trim, and place it on a baking-sheet in the oven to dry the surface; glaze in the usual manner, and after having clarified the mirepoix in which the ham has been baked, add as much as will suffice to give flavour to some Espagnole sauce, reduce it to the proper consistency, and use it to pour round the ham when sent to table. Hams dressed according to the foregoing method may be garnished as follows:—cl la Financiere, il la P^rigueux, it la Parisienne, h. la Macedoine, la Jardiniere, il la Flamande; with stewed peas, asparagus peas, young carrots, spinach, broad beans, etc. Note.—If the ham, dressed as above, be intended to be eaten cold, it should be allowed to remain in its braise until it becomes set in a jelly. It must be then taken out, trimmed, glazed, and dished up with some aspic jelly made with essence of ham.BRAISED AND BAKED HAM I99 Westphalia Ham a la St. James Prepare a small Westphalia ham in every respect according to the first part of the previous directions, and having allowed it to steep in the mirepoix the allotted time, reduce the mirepoix, vege- tables, etc., of which it is composed, and cover the under part of the ham with the glaze ; then wrap the whole of the ham up with large sheets of cartridge-paper, previously well oiled for the purpose ; over the paper put a covering of venison paste, as is usual when about to prepare venison for roasting. Cover the coating of flour and water paste with greased paper, and tie on this with string. About five hours before the ham is required for table, roast before a moderate fire or in the oven ; when it has been cooking about three hours and a half, take it up, make a hole in the paste, and with a funnel infuse a gill of brandy, or, in preference to this, as much Malaga wine ; stop the hole up with paste, and let the ham roast for twenty minutes longer; then take it up carefully, so as not to lose any portion of the essence contained within the coating of crust that surrounds the ham. Trim the ham, and set it to dry on a baking- sheet in the oven; glaze and dish it up, using the essence reserved for the purpose in order to give flavour to the sauce intended to be served with it. Braised Ham a la Parisienne Trim, soak, and boil a small ham, either Westphalia or home- cured ; when it has boiled in water about an hour take it up and put it into cold water, and after having scraped the rind clean, place it in an oval braising-pan with two carrots, as many onions, a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, six cloves and two blades of mace; moisten with a glass of sherry and sufficient stock to cover the surface of the ham; put the lid on, and as soon as it has boiled, set the pan on a slow fire to continue gently braising for about four hours and a half. When the ham is done, take it up and trim it, leaving, as usual, enough of the rind adhering to the knuckle part, and on this cut out (with the point of a sharp knife) an ornament resembling leaves or scallops, spread out in a fan-like form ; glaze the ham and put it on a dish, raised on an oval croustade two inches and a half high, formed to the shape of the ham, cut round in flutes, and fried to a golden colour ; round the base place a dozen small fluted croustades of fried bread, filled with green peas, asparagus-heads, carrots and turnips, scooped out in the form of very small olives, and nicely glazed. Glaze the ham, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve. Send some bright Espagnole sauce, mixed with some of the essence of ham, previous to reduction of the sauce, in a sauce-boat to be served with the ham. Ham with Aspic Jelly Braise a ham as directed on p. 196, trim and glaze it accord- ingly, dish up, and garnish with aspic jelly according to any pre-. ferred design.200 THE MODERN COOK REMOVES OF VENISON, RED DEER, AND ROEBUCK Haunch of Venison Roasted a l’Anglaise Saw off the shank-bone of a small haunch, remove the sinew, pare away the dark dry skin from the skirt, and also the dried surface of the under part. Then cover the haunch with a large sheet of buttered paper, and over that place a covering of flour and water paste about half an inch in thickness ; envelop the whole with two large sheets of cartridge-paper, and roast either in front of the fire or in the oven. If the haunch be a fine one it should be allowed from two hours to two and a half to roast, and about twenty minutes before it is done the paste and paper should be removed and a little salt sprinkled over it. Then with a dredger shake over some flour to froth and colour it; baste it with a little fresh butter, and about five minutes after take the haunch up, place it on a dish, pour a rich brown gravy under it, put a paper ruffle on the bone, and send to table with a sauce-boat filled with sweet sauce (see p. 16). Haunch of Venison a I’Allemande Trim and remove the spine-bone from a small haunch of venison, place it in an oval braising-pan with two carrots, two onions, a head of celery, a bouquet garni, six cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a glass of red wine and sufficient stock to cover the surface of the venison; lay on it a buttered paper, and put on the lid, and after having allowed it to boil on a brisk fire, place it in the oven or on a moderate fire to continue braising very gently for about three to four hours—taking care to moisten the surface frequently with its own braise. When the venison is done take it up on a deep baking-dish, put about a pint of its own liquor under it, trim neatly and mask all over with a thick coating of the following preparation : —Bake some slices of bread a light-brown colour, and afterwards pound and sift them; put half a pound of this into a basin, and add to it half an ounce of powdered cinnamon, two ounces of fine sugar, and as much port wine as will suffice to moisten the whole into a thick paste; use this to cover the haunch of venison, smooth it over with the blade of a knife, and put it in a warm place to dry the surface of the crust. When about to send to table place the venison on a dish, pour some Victoria cherry sauce (see p. 16) round it, garnish with alternate groups of prunes stewed in wine, and potato quenelles; put a ruffle on the bone, and serve. Haunch of Venison a la St. George Trim a small haunch of venison in the usual manner, and with the point of a small knife make a circular incision about eight inches in diameter, just below the knuckle, on the upper part of the haunch, and with a large knife remove the surface of the part so marked out in order to leave the place bare, preparatory to its being thickly and201 REMOVES OF VENISON, RED DEER, ETC. neatly larded as for a fricandeau. Then prepare the venison for braising—in every respect following the directions given for that part of the process in the preceding recipe. Having carefully and frequently moistened the surface of the venison during the time it is braising, the venison, when done, will present, if properly attended to, a bright appearance. It should then be drained, and after being glazed and dished up with a rich Financiere ragoftt (see p. 44), in a Poivrade sauce made with port wine, garnish the haunch with three or four ornamental silver skewers, each furnished with a large double white cock’s-comb, a large black truffle, and a decorated quenelle; put a handsome ruffle on the bone, and send to table. Haunch of Red Deer Roasted a 1’fEcossaise Prepare and roast this kind of venison as described for dressing a haunch of venison it l’Anglaise; but it is necessary to allow it to hang longer than any other sort before dressing it, or it will be found to be tough. Haunch of Red Deer k la Glengarry Trim and remove the whole of the chine-bone of a small haunch of red deer, saw off the shank and scrape the leg-bone so as to show about an inch. Then pare off the whole of the surface (excepting the fat part) in an oval form, and lard it closely like a fricandeau; place the haunch in a large pan with sliced carrot and onion, parsley, bay-leaves and thyme, cloves, mace and bruised peppercorns, adding to these a quart of common vinegar, a handful of salt, and half a gallon of water; let the haunch steep in this pickle for about ten days, taking care to turn it over twice a day, and at the expiration of that time the venison will be fit for dressing. After the venison has been marinaded, place it in a large oval braising-pan, and garnish with two carrots, two onions, two heads of celery, a bouquet garni, eight cloves, and two blades of mace; moisten with a glass of Madeira and a quart of good stock; cover with a sheet of thick paper well buttered, let it boil, and then place the lid on and put the pan on a moderate fire to braise gently for five or six hours—moistening the larding of the venison frequently with its own liquor, by which means it will be nicely glazed. It should now be taken up on to a baking-sheet and placed in the oven for a few minutes to dry the larding; then glaze and dish it up. Pour a well-made Poivrade sauce under it, garnish round with quenelles of grouse, bread-crumbed and fried, and at each end place groups of venison fry; put a ruffle on the leg-bone, and send to table with sweet sauce separately in a boat. Haunch of Red Deer a la Kinnaird Prepare and dress a small haunch of red deer exactly as the foregoing; when done, glazed and dished up, garnish round with alternate groups of fried potatoes (cut into the shape of large olives, and fried in clarified butter) and round potato croquettes ; pour a well-made sweet sauce under it, and send to table.202 THE MODERN COOK Neck of Red Deer a la Marie Stuart Saw off the chine-bone and shorten the rib of a small neck, then remove the whole of the sinewy covering from the meaty part of the neck, leaving a perfectly even surface, which must be larded closely in the usual manner—taking care that when trimming neck of deer, the whole of the fat that covers the ribs must be left on. When the neck is larded, marinade it in the pickle prescribed for the haunch; and leave to steep in this about six days and nights, when it will be ready for dressing. Take out and prepare for braising in similar manner to the haunch. When done, take up on to a baking-sheet, and put in the oven to dry the larding for a few minutes, glaze, and place on a dish in the form of a Chevaux-de-frise: this is effected by placing the neck on its base, and allowing the rib-bones to fall over, or between each other, showing the larded parts outside. Garnish with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and a border of quenelles of pheasant a la Richelieu (see p. 295), at each end; glaze the larding of the venison, and serve. Neck of Red Deer a la St. Andrew Prepare and braise a neck of red deer in the manner last men- tioned ; when done, glaze and dish up after the same directions; garnish with a rich Financibre ragout (see p. 44), with Poivrade sauce; surround with a border of quenelles of grouse, decorated with truffles; at each end place a croustade of bread cut in the shape of a vase, and fried a golden colour, and fill it with a group of four large truffles; glaze the larding, and send to table. Fillets of Red Deer a la Royale Take out the fillets of a neck of red deer, which must be cut with part of the loin adhering to it; trim and lard all over the upper surface, after which steep in a marinade (see p. 57) for six days. Then proceed to dress in the same manner as directed for the haunch £1 la Glengarry. When the fillets are done, take them out of their braise on to a baking-sheet, and put them in the oven for a few minutes to dry the larding; then glaze nicely, and afterwards dish up on an oval croustade of fried bread, about two inches high, and cut round in flutes; garnish with a ragout composed as follows :— Braise three pork sausages, and after they have been allowed to cool, cut them up and throw the pieces into a large bain-marie; to these add an equal quantity of neat cubes of streaky bacon (previously braised), some button-mushrooms and green gherkins. A rich Poivrade sauce must be poured on the ingredients; let the whole boil on the fire for two minutes, pour the ragout round the fillets, and place a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) (rolled in fried bread-crumbs) round the edge of the dish, and serve.REMOVES OF VENISON, RED DEER, ETC. 203 Boar’s Head with Aspic Jelly Procure the head of a bacon hog,1 which must be cut off deep into the shoulders ; bone it carefully, beginning under the throat, then spread the head out upon a large dish, and rub it with the follow- ing ingredients :—Two pounds of salt, one and a half ounces of saltpetre, six ounces of moist sugar, cloves, mace, half an ounce of juniper berries, two cloves of garlic, three or four bay-leaves, a handful of thyme, marjoram, and basil. When the head has been well rubbed with these, keep it in a cool place for about a week, turning it daily during that period. When about to dress the head, take it out of the brine, and wash it thoroughly in cold water; wipe it with a clean cloth, and spread it out upon the table. Next pare off all the uneven pieces from the cheeks, etc., cut these into long narrow fillets, and put them with the tongue, fat bacon, and truffles, prepared as directed for a galantine (see p. 303); then line the inside of the head with a layer of force-meat (the same as used for galantines), about an inch thick, and lay on it the fillets of tongue, bacon, truffles, and here and there some blanched pistachio kernels; cover these with a layer of force-meat, and then repeat the rows of tongue, etc., and when the head is sufficiently stuffed to fill it out in its original shape, it should be sewn up with a small trussing-needle and string, so as thoroughly to secure the stuffing. The head must then be wrapped up in a cloth, and sewn up in this, so as to preserve its original form ; it should next be put into a large oval braising-pan, covered with any carcases of game (especially of grouse, from its congenial flavour) or any trimmings of meat there may be at hand; then moisten with enough wine rhirepoix (see p. 57) to cover the surface of the head. As soon as it boils up, skim thoroughly, then remove to a slow fire that the head may continue to simmer or boil very gently for between four and five hours; as soon as it appears to be nearly done, remove the pan from the fire and dish up the head; if it appears to have shrunk in the cloth, this must be carefully tightened so as to preserve its shape; it should then be put back into the liquor until the whole has become set by cooling. The head must then be taken out of the liquor, and put in the oven upon a deep baking-dish for a few minutes, just to melt the jelly which may be sticking to the cloth.; it must then be taken out quickly, and the cloth removed, after which glaze the head with some dark-coloured glaze ; place on a large dish, ornament it with aspic jelly and creamed butter forced through a pipe, and serve. 1 For this purpose the head must be cut off before the pig is scalded, and the bristles singed off; by this means it will have all the appearance of a wild boar's head.THE MODERN COOK 204 REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPON Roast Turkey a la Perigord Pick, draw, and singe a fine young hen turkey. Previous to this operation some fresh truffles should be prepared as follows, to be used in stuffing the turkey :— Have about half a pound of truffles thoroughly washed; peel and cut them into pieces the size of a small walnut; place these in a stew-pan, and after pounding the parings with about half a pound of fat ham or bacon, add them to the truffles. Season with mignonette pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and chopped bay-leaf and thyme, and one clove of garlic; a few fat livers of poultry may also be added, after being pounded separately. Set the stew-pan containing these ingredients on a slow fire, and allow them to simmer very gently for about half an hour, stirring them occasionally with a wooden spoon. When nearly cold, proceed to stuff the turkey with the mixture. The turkey must then be put away in the larder till the next day (time permitting), when it should be trussed in the usual manner for roasting. Cover the breast with thin layers of fat bacon, and wrap round the entire turkey with thick paper well buttered, and securely fastened with string. Roast about one and a half hours. Dish up and glaze it, pour under it a rich Perigueux sauce (see p. 7), and serve. Roast Turkey a la Chipolata Draw and prepare a turkey for stuffing, fill it with well-seasoned veal-stuffing and chestnuts; or, if preferred, pork-sausage meat may be substituted for the veal-stuffing. The chestnuts are prepared as follows:—Take about three dozen chestnuts, and after splitting them across the outer skin, fry them with a little butter in a frying-pan until they shed their husks easily; when peeled, boil them in a little good consomme till tender; half should then be reserved to be put in the sauce, and the remainder used as directed above.” The turkey being thus prepared, truss and cover it with thin layers of fat bacon as directed in the foregoing recipe, and having roasted it until it is a nice brown colour, dish up and garnish with alternate groups of the ingredients composing the Chipolata ragoftt (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the remove, and send to table. Roast Turkey a 1’Anglaise Stuff a turkey with some well-seasoned veal-stuffing, let it be trussed in the usual manner, and, previous to roasting, cover it with thin layers of fat bacon, which should be secured on with buttered paper tied round the turkey so as entirely to envelop it; then roast it, and when done, dish up, garnish with small pork sausages, nicely fried; pour a rich Poivrade sauce round it, glaze the turkey, and send to table.REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPON 205 Turkey a la Florentine Truss a small young turkey as for boiling, cover the breast with thin slices of bacon or fat ham; upon this place two to three thin slices of lemon and a small bay-leaf. Wrap it up carefully in a sheet of buttered paper, and place the bird, breast upwards, in a stew-pan large and deep enough to hold it well, and previously lined with slices of bacon, carrot, onion, celery, and a bunch of savoury herbs. Add one ounce of butter, a pint of well-seasoned stock, and a glass of Chablis or Italian white wine. Bring it to the boil over the fire, then cover the pan and place it in a hot oven, and cook the bird till tender, allowing about twenty minutes to each pound. Baste the bird frequently. AVhen done, take up the turkey, remove the paper, and strain the liquor into another pan ; add half a pint of Tomato sauce, boil up and skim, then put the turkey into the sauce, reheat it, and serve whole, handing round the sauce separately. Roast Turkey a la Financiere The turkey may be stuffed either with veal-stuffing or force-meat of fowl; it should be roasted in the usual manner, and when done, dished up and garnished with a rich Financiere ragoflt (see p. 44); at each end place a larded sweetbread; glaze the turkey, and send to table. Boiled Turkey with Celery Sauce Draw and singe a fine young hen turkey, stuff it with veal- stuffing, and truss it for boiling; wrap some buttered paper round it, and place it in an oval braising-pan with carrot, onion, a stick of celery, and a bouquet garni; add as much white stock as will suffice to cover the turkey, then set it on the fire to boil for about one and a half hours; it should after that be removed to the side, to continue gently boiling till done; then take it up out of the braise, remove all the string, etc., and drain ; dish up, pour over a well-made puree of celery (see p. 27), place round it some stewed heads of celery, and send to table. Boiled Turkey with Oyster Sauce The turkey should be boiled as directed in the last recipe ; when done, dish up, and, previous to sending it to table, pour over some well-made Oyster sauce, and serve. Capon Stuffed with Truffles a la Perigord This should be prepared according to the directions given for dressing a turkey after the same fashion (see p. 204). Capon a la Godard Draw and singe a capon, and truss for boiling. Rub over with lemon, and wrap in a sheet of buttered paper (to keep it white), and place in a stew-pan with some white stock to braise; for which purpose it must be first put on the fire, and after it has boiled, placed by the side to continue gently simmering for206 THE MODERN COOK about an hour and a quarter. Just before dinner-time, take the capon out of the braise and drain it; remove the strings, dish up, and garnish with a richly composed ragout k la Godard (see p. 187), and serve. Capon a la Chipolata This is dressed in the same way as turkey k la Chipolata (see p. 204). Capon a l’Anglaise Truss and boil one plump capon, and when done, dish up; garnish with boiled heads of broccoli or cauliflower, sauce the capons with a rich Bechamel sauce, and serve. Tongue may be served at the same time as the capon. Capon a la Jardiniere This should be boiled and dished up as in the foregoing recipe. Garnish with alternate groups of prepared vegetables, such as small carrots, turnips, buds of cauliflower, green peas, asparagus-heads, and French beans cut in the form of diamonds. Sauce the capon with Bechamel sauce, glaze the tongue, and serve. In some cases the tongue may be replaced by an ornamental croustade of bread, fried a golden colour, and filled with mashed potatoes. Capon a la Macedoine This method is very similar to the foregoing, with this exception, that the capon when dished up should be garnished with a well- prepared Macedoine (see p. 35); sauce with Allemande, and serve. Capon a la Printaniere Truss and boil a fat capon, and when done, dish up with a nicely trimmed and glazed tongue in the centre; sauce with a Supreme sauce (see p. 10); garnish round with a border of small deep cups cut out of young turnips; these should be filled with carrots scooped out in the form of very small peas or olives, and also with young green peas; these cups, when disposed alternately round the dish, will be found to produce a very pretty effect. Capon a l’lvoire The capon must be trussed and braised in the usual manner, and when done, the stock in which it has been braised should be strained, every particle of fat removed, and clarified. After this has been strained it should be boiled down to the consistency of half- glaze, and when the capon is dished up, should be poured over it and sent to table. It is also customary in serving this remove to use a rich Supreme sauce (see p. 10), with small quenelles of fowl for garnish. Capon au Gros Sel This is dressed in the manner described in the first part of the foregoing recipe; a little coarse salt should, however, be placed upon the breast just before sending it to table.REMOVES OF TURKEY AND CAPON 207 Capon a 1’Estragon Braise the capon in the usual way; when done, the liquor in which it has been braised must be clarified, and a few sprigs of green tarragon thrown into it while boiling; the consomme should then be strained and boiled down nearly to the consistency of half- glaze, to be poured over the capon when served. Some leaves of green tarragon must be 'boiled for a minute or two in water, and used to ornament the breast of the capon. Capon with Rice After the capon has been drawn, wash the inside thoroughly clean, and dry with a cloth. Then nearly fill the capon with rice, boiled quite soft in white stock, and mixed with a good tablespoonful of white sauce; it should afterwards be trussed for boiling, and placed in an oval stew-pan, with an onion stuck with two cloves, and a carrot. Add as much white stock as will cover the breast of the fowl, over which lay an oval piece of buttered paper; place the lid on the stew-pan, and about an hour and a half before it is wanted set it to boil gently on a slow fire. When done, drain the fowl, and having removed the strings, place it upon a dish, garnish round neatly with rice, previously boiled in white stock, to which has been added a large tablespoonful of white sauce, a yolk of egg, a little mignonette pepper, grated nutmeg, and a small pat of fresh butter. Work the rice over a brisk fire for five minutes, and then, with two tablespoons, mould it into the form of large eggs, and place these round the capon in a close border; sauce the capon with Supreme or Bechamel sauce, and serve. If the capon is intended to be served plain, the sauce, etc., must be omitted, and instead of masking it with sauce, pour some essence of fowl under it; this may be obtained by clarifying some of the stock in which it has boiled, and afterwards boiling it down to the consistency of half-glaze. Capon k la Milanaise Truss and boil a capon in the usual way, and when done, dish it up and garnish with a ragoiit of macaroni dressed with truffles, red tongue, and mushrooms. Capon with Macaroni Boil the capon as directed for the capon h. la Godard; dish up, and garnish with macaroni prepared as follows :—Boil six ounces of macaroni in water, with a small pat of butter, a little salt and mignonette pepper; when it is done, drain it in a colander, cut the pipes into pieces two inches long, and put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a pat of butter, a little mignonette pepper, and a large tablespoonful of white sauce; stir the macaroni, or rather toss it, over a brisk fire, and when the cheese is incorporated with the sauce, etc., use as directed; mask the breast of the capon with Bechamel, and serve.208 THE MODERN COOK Capon with Nouilles1 Braise the capon as directed in the foregoing recipe, and when done, dish up, and garnish round with the nouilles, previously prepared for the purpose, in the following manner:—Parboil the nouilles in water for five minutes, throw them on to a sieve to drain the water from them, and afterwards replace them in the stew-pan; season with mignonette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a pat of butter; moisten with about a pint of good stock, cover with a round of buttered paper, place the lid on the stew-pan, and set the nouilles to simmer gently on a slow fire for about half an hour; then remove the paper, and add a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed, and then use them as before directed; sauce the capon with Supreme or Allemande sauce, and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing capons, they may also be served with Celery sauce, Oyster, Green, Ravigote sauce, or with Crayfish or Financiere ragouts. Poulardes are dressed in the same manner as capons. REMOVES AND ENTREES OF GOOSE Goose a l’Anglaise Draw a fine fat goose, and stuff it with the following seasoning :— Chop three onions and about eighteen sage leaves; parboil these in water for three minutes, then drain them, and afterwards put them into a small stew-pan with one ounce of butter, pepper and salt, and allow the whole to simmer gently over a slow fire for a few minutes, stirring the seasoning the whole of the time with a wooden spoon. When the goose is stuffed, truss it for roasting, which will take about an hour and a half, according to its size—baste it frequently ; when done, dish it up with a rich brown gravy under it, and send to table with a boat of Apple sauce. Goose a l’Estouffade Draw a fine fat young goose, and stuff it in the following manner:— Parboil two large onions and chop them fine; to these add six sage leaves, and an equal quantity of green thyme: these also must first be parboiled and then chopped. Put the onions and the herbs into a small stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; and set the whole to stew gently on a very slow fire for about ten minutes. Then put the stuffing into the 1 Nouilles are prepared in the following manner :—Sift six ounces of flour upon a marble slab or paste-board ; make .a well in the centre by spreading the flour out in the form of a ring with the back of the hand ; then add a pinch of salt and a tea- spoonful of water to melt it; after which add the yolks of one or two eggs, and knead the whole well together into a firm, smooth, compact paste ; roll it out as thin as paper, and then divide it into bands three inches wide ; cut these into very fine shreds, and spread them upon a large sieve to dry.209 REMOVES AND ENTREES OF GOOSE goose, and truss it in the usual way; place it in an oval braise-pan with six ounces of butter, a bouquet garni, an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery, and a carrot cut into slices, and moisten with two glasses of sherry. Put the lid on the braise-pan, place it on a slow fire, with some hot embers of charcoal on the lid, and allow the goose to simmer gently for about two hours, taking particular care to turn it, so as to give it an equal colour all over. When done, pour off all the fat, add three tablespoonfuls of reduced brown sauce, and a little consomme to detach the glaze from the sides of the stew-pan ; and having allowed it to boil quickly, in order to reduce the sauce to its usual consistency, the goose should be dished up and garnished with a border of glazed turnips ; then pour the sauce over, and serve. This dish may also be garnished with macaroni, with glazed carrots, or braised onions. Goose a la Flamande Truss and braise a goose; when done, dish it up and garnish it round with alternate groups of glazed carrots, turnips, Brussels sprouts, and indeed almost every variety of vegetables in season, pre- viously prepared for the purpose; glaze the goose, and pour some bright brown sauce (with the addition of some of the braise in which it has been done, reduced to a glaze for that purpose) round the vegetables, and send to table. Goose a l’Allemande Procure one dozen leaves of sage, and blanch them in boiling water for two minutes; then drain and put them into a small stew-pan with a large onion chopped fine, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and one ounce of butter; set these to simmer gently on the fire for ten minutes, and having put this stuffing in the goose, truss and place it in an oval stew-pan with three ounces of butter, and set it on a moderate fire, with some hot embers on the lid. Care should be taken to turn the goose every now and then, so as to give it an equal colour all over. When it is done, pour off all the fat, add the juice of one lemon and one orange, the peel of an orange cut into very thin shreds, one previously parboiled in water; add also a table- spoonful of brown sauce and a little consomme. Allow these to boil together for two or three minutes, dish up the goose, garnish it round with groups of potatoes,—cut into the shape of large olives and fried in butter,—pour the sauce over the goose, and send to table. Goose a la Dauphinoise Stuff a goose with chestnuts prepared as follows :—Slit, scald, and peel about three dozen large chestnuts; put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a little salt, and a pint of good stock, one shalot chopped fine, and a bouquet garni; set the chestnuts to stew upon a slow fire, and when they are done, stuff the goose and truss it. Then place the goose in a deep dish, moisten with a wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), and cover the dish hermetically with some stiff flour and water paste, so as entirely to prevent the aroma of ingredients from pTHE MODERN COOK 210 escaping. Set it in the oven to bake for about two hours, and when it is done, remove the crust, dish up the goose, strain the gravy into a stew-pan, skim off every particle of fat, and then boil it down to the bare quantity required for saucing; to this add the juice of two oranges and one lemon, a tablespoonful of currant jelly, and some orange peel shred fine; boil the whole together for two minutes, then pour the sauce over the goose, and send to table. Goose a la Normande Chop one large onion fine, blanch, and afterwards drain it; then fry it with a little butter a light-brown colour, and mix it with mashed potatoes, in sufficient quantity to stuff the goose; this being done, truss and roast it in the usual manner, and dish it up; garnish with a border of small round apples cut into fancy shapes and glazed. Pour a rich gravy round the goose, and send to table. Wild Goose a l’Aberdeen Draw and singe a goose, and stuff with the following preparation :— To three ounces of chopped beef-suet, add the same quantity of bread-crumbs, two ounces of butter, one egg, a little chopped thyme, sweet basil, and marjoram, two shalots, and a dessertspoonful of parsley; season with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; knead the whole well together, and stuff the goose with it. Then truss the goose, and roast in the same fashion as directed for a haunch of venison. It will require about one and a half to two hours to roast; when done, dish it up with a border of glazed onions (see p. 37), pour some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) under it, and send to table. The goose should be frothed with flour and butter in the same manner as venison, after the crust has been removed. Wild Goose a l’Allemande Prepare the goose at first as directed on p. 209, then place it in a deep earthenware dish, and strew upon it the following vegetables cut into thin slices: two carrots, two onions, one head of celery, a hand- ful of parsley, four bay leaves, thyme, marjoram, and sweet basil in small quantities; also four blades of mace, a dozen cloves, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns, two lemons peeled and cut into slices, half a pint of salad oil, and a gill of French vinegar. Allow the goose to remain in this marinade or pickle for a couple of days, taking care to turn it frequently. When about to cook the goose, cover it with paper well buttered, lay the whole of the vegetables, etc., on the breast, cover these with two sheets of buttered paper, and fasten them on securely with string. Roast the goose thus prepared for about two hours, taking care to baste it frequently ; when done, glaze and dish up, garnish with a border of quenelles of potatoes rolled in fried bread-crumbs, and pour under it a sauce made as follows :— Grate a stick of horse-radish ; peel and slice up a lemon, removing the pips, and put these in a stew-pan with two shalots, six cloves,MEAT PIES 21 r two blades of mace, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns, two bay leaves, a large sprig of thyme, and half a pint of French vinegar; set these to boil on the fire until reduced to half the quantity, then add a gill of rich gravy, a tablespoonful of currant jelly, and the juice of a Seville orange; allow the whole to boil together for five minutes, and then strain the sauce into a small stew-pan, and make it hot for use. Cygnet a la Norwich Procure a Norwich-fed cygnet (these birds are in best condition in September), stuff it with the following preparation :— A pound of rump steak chopped fine, seasoned with three shalots, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Truss the cygnet in the usual manner, then envelop it with well-buttered paper, and encase it with flour and water paste in a similar way to that used for haunches of venison ; after which let the whole be again secured with stout paper well greased and fastened on with string. About two and a half to three hours will suffice to roast the cygnet, during which it should be frequently basted. When done, remove the coating, froth it with flour and butter in the usual manner, and dish it up with a rich brown gravy under it; and send a sauce-boatful of Port Wine sauce to be handed round. MEAT PIES Chicken Pie k la Reine Cut a small chicken into small pieces as for a fricassde, cover the bottom of the pie-dish with slices of veal and ham placed alternately; season with chopped mushroom and parsley, pepper and salt, then add a little white sauce; next place in the dish the pieces of chicken in neat order, repeat the seasoning and the sauce, lay a few thin slices of dressed ham neatly trimmed on the top; cover the pie with puff-paste, ornament this with pieces of the same cut into the form of leaves, etc., egg the pie over with a paste-brush, and bake it for one hour and a half. A very good chicken pie may be made by omitting the mushrooms, ham, and the sauce-—substituting for these the yolks of eggs boiled hard, chopped parsley, bacon, and a little mushroom catsup, some common gravy, or even water. Pigeon Pie a l’Anglaise Draw, truss, and singe three or four young pigeons; stuff them with the chopped livers, mixed with some parsley, a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. Cover the bottom of the dish with slices of beef, taken either from the fillet or rump; season with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt; over these place the pigeons and the slices of one or two hard boiled eggs; add some white or brown sauce, in sufficient quantity to produce sauce enough for the dish, or substitute some gravy or common stock; repeat the seasoning, cover the pie with puff-paste, bake it for an hour and a half, and send to table.THE MODERN COOK 212 Grouse Pie a l’Ecossaise Pick two grouse, cut off the legs and wings, and tuck the thighs inside; then cut away the lower parts of the backs, which, if per- mitted to remain, would, from their bitter taste, spoil the pie.. Cover the bottom of the dish with slices of beef-steak seasoned with chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, pepper and salt; over these place the grouse, and some slices of hard-boiled eggs; lay some small thin slices of streaky bacon or ham upon the top, and then mix nearly half a pint of good gravy with one tablespoonful of mushroom catsup or Harvey sauce; pour this preparation into the pie, sprinkle some chopped parsley and mushrooms on the surface, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for an hour and a half, and serve. Partridge Pie a la Chasseur Cut two small partridges into small joints, in the same manner as directed for cutting up fowls for a fricassee, and set them apart on a plate. Then cover the bottom of the pie-dish with neatly- trimmed slices of veal, and thin slices of streaky bacon—first partially boiled to extract the salt; cover these with a gill of the following preparation :—Make about half a pint of Soubise sauce, six or eight button mushrooms, some chopped parsley, and a little thyme; season with cayenne pepper and salt. When the veal, etc., is covered with the above, place the pieces of partridge in neat order upon the whole with some slices of hard-boiled eggs; pour the remainder of the sauce on these, and smooth over the surface with a knife; cover the pie with puff-paste, bake it for one hour and a half, and serve. Giblet Pie with Fine Herbs Procure one or more sets of goose giblets (cleaned), scald them, afterwards immerse them in cold water and drain them upon a napkin. Then cut the giblets into pieces about two inches long, trim neatly and place in a stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, and season with pepper and a little salt; moisten with a pint of good broth and a glass of sherry, and set them to stew gently on a slow fire. When done, remove the carrot, onion, and bunch of herbs; drain the giblets, skim off all the fat from the broth, and after having put it back into a small stew-pan, thicken it with a little roux, and boil the sauce over a brisk fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring it the whole time with a wooden spoon. Reduce the sauce by boiling to about a gill, and then remove it from the fire. Next cover the bottom of the dish with slices of fillet of beef, season with fine herbs, consisting of mushrooms, parsley, a very little sweet basil, and one shalot, adding cayenne pepper, and salt; over these pour half the sauce, then fill the dish up with the giblets, which place in neat order; sprinkle some fine herbs upon them and pour the remainder of the sauce over the whole. Cover the pie with puff- paste, bake it for an hour, and send to table.MEAT PIES 2x3 Beefsteak and Oyster Pie Cut a pound of fillet of beef or rump-steak into thin slices, fry them quickly over a very brisk fire so as to brown them before they are half done; then place them on the bottom of the dish, leaving the centre open, in two successive layers; fill the centre with two dozen oysters previously parboiled and bearded, season with pepper and salt, and pour the following preparation over the whole :—When the slices of beef have been fried in a frying-pan, pour nearly all the fat out, and shake a teaspoonful of flour into it; stir this over the fire for one minute, then add a gill of good gravy or stock, one dessert- spoonful of mushroom catsup, an equal quantity of Harvey sauce, and the liquor from the oysters; stir the whole over the fire, and keep it boiling for a quarter of an hour. Half an hour after this sauce has been poured into the pie, cover it with puff-paste in the usual way, bake it for an hour and a half, and serve. Veal and Ham Pie Cut one and a half pounds of veal and half a pound of ham into thin slices, and season with a little pepper and salt. Next chop two or three mushrooms and a few sprigs of parsley, and put them in a small stew-pan with a small pat of butter and one shalot chopped fine; fry these lightly over the fire, then add a gill of Veloute sauce or good stock; boil the whole for five minutes and pour it into the pie; add two to three hard-boiled eggs cut in slices, cover with puff- paste, bake the pie for an hour and a half, and serve. Mutton Pie a l’Anglaise Procure two to two and a half pounds of a neck of mutton, remove the scrag and the spine-bone, shorten the ribs, use these trimmings to make some stock or gravy for the pie. Next cut the mutton into neat chops, pare off the superfluous fat, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in the dish in circular order, one resting upon another in the same way as cutlets are dished up; fill the centre with small new potatoes, or old ones cut into the shape of round balls; boil the mutton stock down to the quantity required to come half-way up the dish, season with pepper and salt, cover with puff-paste, bake the pie an hour and a half, and send to table. Woodcock or Snipe Pie a l’lrlandaise Pick three or four birds clean, cut off the legs and wings, singe them, and then cut each woodcock or snipe into halves; remove the gizzards, leaving the trail, and set them aside on a plate. Then cover the sides and bottom of a white glazed earthenware oval pan (used for preserving game) with very thin layers of fat bacon, place the woodcocks or snipes in the pan in close layers, each well seasoned with ground black pepper and salt, and a good pinch of prepared aromatic spices (see p. 391). When this is done, fill up the pan with a sufficient quantity of clarified fresh butter to cover the birds, place some layers of fat bacon on the top, cover the pan hermetically with a firm flour and water paste ; bake this pie in a moderately214 THE MODERN COOK heated oven for about two hours; when it has become cold, remove the crust, wash the edges and sides of the pan, and pour a little fresh clarified butter on the top; when cold, ornament with a neat border of picked double parsley, set the pie on a folded napkin laid on its dish, and serve. This is perhaps the best method for making pies of woodcocks or snipes, as from the simplicity of the ingredients used, the birds retain their flavour—an important consideration with amateurs for this kind of game. Lark Pie a la Melton Mowbray Pick and clean one dozen larks, singe them, cut off the wings and legs, and with the point of a small knife remove the gizzards, and then set the larks aside on a dish. Next cut half a pound of lean veal and half a pound of ham into thin slices; fry these with a little fresh butter, half-a-dozen button-mushrooms, some parsley and a shalot, half a bay-leaf, and a sprig of thyme chopped fine; season with cayenne and salt, and the juice of a lemon. To these add a gill of Veloute or Espagnole sauce, and half a gill of rich gravy; boil the whole together for three minutes, then place the slices of veal and ham one upon the other in the bottom of the dish; put the larks neatly and close to each other upon these, pour the sauce over them, and place the mushrooms in the centre; cover with puff-paste, bake the pie for one hour and a quarter, and serve. MEAT PUDDINGS Beefsteak and Oyster Pudding Line a pint and a half pudding-basin with suet crust made with half a pound of chopped beef suet and three-quarters of a pound of flour; fill this lining with a preparation similar to that described for making beefsteak and oyster pie (see p. 213), except that the sauce must be more reduced. When the pudding is filled, wet the edges of the crust round the top of the basin with a paste-brush dipped in water, cover it with a piece of suet-crust rolled out to the size of the basin, fasten it down by bearing all round the edge with the thumb; and then with the thumb and forefinger twist the edges of the paste over and over so as to give it a corded appearance. This pudding must be either steamed or boiled three hours ; when done, turn it out of the basin carefully, pour some rich brown gravy under it, and serve. Mutton Pudding Line a basin with suet crust as above directed, fill the lining with boned mutton cutlets slightly trimmed, or, if preferred, with steaks cut from the leg; season with pepper and salt, some parsley, a little thyme and one small shalot chopped fine, and between each layer of meat put some slices of potatoes. Cover the pudding as in the foregoing recipe, steam or boil it for three hours, and serve some rich gravy under it when sent to table.2I5 MEAT PUDDINGS Kidney Pudding Cut three-quarters of a pound of sheep’s or lamb’s kidneys into thin slices, add a little chopped parsley, shalot, and a little thyme, and season with pepper and salt; then add a gill of good sauce and the juice of half a lemon : mix these ingredients well together. Line a small basin with suet crust, and fill the pudding with the prepara- tion • cover it in the usual way, steam or boil it for two hours, and when sent to table, pour under it some rich brown gravy and serve. Pudding of Small Birds a la Chipolata Most kinds of small birds may be used for this purpose, such as larks, sparrows, fieldfares, and wheat-ears, etc. Take one dozen small birds which have been picked clean, remove the gizzards, and fry them over a brisk fire until they are browned; add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot, season with a little grated nutmeg, lemon juice, pepper and salt, and a gill of brown sauce, also six or eight roasted chestnuts previously peeled, and the same number of small pieces of parboiled streaky bacon: boil these ingredients for three minutes, then fill a lined pudding basin with them, and cover it with paste as usual. This pudding must be steamed from three to three and a half hours on account of its richness. When done, turn it out of the basin with care, in order not to break it; pour a rich brown sauce under, and serve. This pudding may be made in a plainer manner by omitting the mushrooms, lemon juice, sauce, and chestnuts—following in all other respects the same process. Snipe Pudding a la d’Orsay Pick three or four fine fat fresh snipes, singe them and divide them into halves, remove the gizzards and reserve the trail for further use ; season the snipes with a little cayenne pepper, salt, and lemon- juice, and set them aside on a dish till wanted. Then peel one onion, cut it into thin slices and fry these in a stew-pan with a small piece of butter ; when they are slightly browned, add a good teaspoonful of flour, and stir on the fire for three minutes; then add two or three chopped mushrooms and a sprig or two of parsley, a small bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, a small blade of mace and a clove of garlic; moisten with two glasses of claret; stir the whole upon the fire, and when these have boiled ten minutes, add the trail and a piece of good glaze. Set the sauce to boil for three minutes longer, and then strain it upon the snipes. Next line a good-sized pudding-basin with suet- crust, fill it up with the above preparation, and cover with a piece of paste properly fastened round the edges. Steam it in a covered stew-pan for two hours and a half to three hours. When the pudding is done, turn it out of the basin with care, pour a rich brown game gravy under it, and serve.2l6 THE MODERN COOK Sausage Pudding Procure a pound of Cambridge sausages, and twist each one into round balls; put these into boiling water on the stove, merely to parboil them for a minute or so, then throw them into cold water and afterwards remove the skins. Line a medium pudding-basin with suet crust, fill it with the sausages, and pour a preparation made as follows upon them:—Chop one onion and three sage leaves, boil these in water for two minutes, drain them, and then fry them in a small stew-pan with a piece of butter; as soon as they turn a light- brown colour, add a teaspoonful of flour and a teaspoonful of curry paste, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a gill of good broth; stir the sauce upon the fire, and when it has boiled a quarter of an hour, strain and use as above directed. Cover the pudding with crust, steam or bake it for two hours, and when turned out of the basin, send to table with plain gravy under it. BLACK GAME AND GROUSE Black Game a la Montagnarde Cut off the legs and wings of one or more birds, tuck the thighs inside, and split them down the back : season well with pepper and salt, rub them over with a paste-brush dipped in clarified butter, and then broil them carefully on a gridiron over a clear fire perfectly free from smoke; or place the birds in a baking-dish with a piece of butter • set them to bake in the oven, and baste them frequently. When done, glaze them nicely, and dish them up with a border of potato croquettes, and then pour under them some Poivrade sauce. Black Game a l’ltalienne Truss one or more birds as for boiling, put them into an oval stew-pan with a bouquet garni, two carrots, a stick of celery, two onions each stuck with three cloves, a blade of mace, six pepper- corns, and a clove of garlic ; moisten with a pint of good stock; place a buttered paper on the top, put the lid on, and set them to braise on a very slow fire, with some hot embers on the lid. If the birds are young, one hour and a quarter will suffice to braise them; but if old, they will require longer time. When the birds are done, drain, glaze, and dish them up, garnish with three to four ounces of macaroni mixed with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a table- spoonful of Tomato sauce, and a small pat of fresh butter; pour some Brown Italian sauce over the birds and round their base, and serve. Black Game a la Suedoise These must be trussed as for boiling, and then placed in an oval stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon and a quarter of a pound of German sausage, a good-sized carrot, a stick of celery, two onions stuck with four cloves each, a bouquet garni, and a tea- spoonful of black peppercorns; moisten with a pint of stock or217 RAISED PIES AND PATTIES fermented juice of beetroot (see p. 106), cover with buttered paper and the lid containing hot embers, and set them to braise slowly on a slow fire. When the birds are done, take them up on a dish and keep them covered until they are dished up. Next strain the liquor, skim off all the fat, boil down nearly to half-glaze, then add to it a glass of red wine; allow this sauce to boil by the side of the fire for five minutes ; skim and strain, and keep it hot. Then place the black game on a dish side by side, garnish with carrots prepared in the Swedish fashion, and round this place another border composed of neatly-cut slices of the streaky bacon and German sausage; pour the sauce over the remove, and serve. The carrots above alluded to should be thus prepared:—Cut the red part of five or six large carrots into thin strips, cut these again into thin shreds of about two inches long. Next place them in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter and half a gill of vinegar; season with a little sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and a little salt; set them to stew very gently, taking care to turn them over now and then with a spoon; about half an hour will suffice to cook them, when, if any moisture remains, it must be boiled down, and they will be ready for use. Black Game a la Paysanne See pheasants k la Paysanne (p. 323). Black Game a la Norwegienne Truss these as for roasting, lard the breasts closely; set them to. braise in an oval stew-pan, moistened with a mirepoix (see p. 57) made with two parts of good stock and one third of French vinegar; baste the birds frequently while they are being braised; when done, set them upon a baking-sheet in the oven for two minutes to dry the larding, then glaze and dish them up ; garnish with a border of stewed red cabbage dressed in the same way as French sauerkraut (see p. 39). Sauce the remove with a Poivrade mixed with half the liquor in which the birds have been braised, previously cleared of all fat and boiled down to half-glaze; glaze the larding, and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing black game, they may also be served k la Soubise, k la Perigueux, k la Financibre, with a puree of celery, Richelieu sauce, braised cabbages, and k la Dauphinoise, for the preparation of which see those recipes. Note.—Grouse should be cooked in the same way as black game. RAISED PIES AND PATTIES French Rabbit Pie with Fine Herbs Prepare and line a patb-chaud case with some hot-water crust, leaving enough for the top. Cut up one or more young rabbits into neat joints, place in aTHE MODERN COOK 2 I 8 deep sauce-pan with two ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, some parsley, and one or two chopped shalots; season with pepper and salt, a little grated nutmeg, and a bunch of herbs. Fry the rabbits on a brisk fire to a light-brown colour; add a glass of French white wine, cover the sauce-pan, and again set on the fire to stew very gently for twenty to thirty minutes. Next add a half pint of brown sauce, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire, and allow it to boil sharply for two minutes; then dish up the pieces of rabbit neatly in the pie, pour the sauce over them, cover the pie, and bake for one hour. Rabbit Pie a la Sauce Poivrade Cut one or more rabbits into neat joints and place in a sauce-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and then set over a brisk fire to be fried brown; next add a glass of Madeira and a piece of glaze the size of a walnut; cover the sauce-pan and place it again upon a moderate fire, that the rabbits may stew very gently for twenty minutes longer; then add half a pint of Poivrade sauce, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes, fill the pate-chaud, cover over as in the former recipe, bake one hour, and send to table. Leveret Pie with Truffles Procure a leveret, or young hare, take off the hind legs and make two pieces of these; detach the shoulders, and cut the loins trans- versely into pieces about two inches long; split the head into halves, trim the whole neatly without waste, and place the joints in a saute- pan with three ounces of clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, and set on a brisk fire to be fried brown. Next add three or four truffles cut into thick slices, and a small piece of glaze; cover, and replace the saute-pan on a slow fire to simmer for twenty minutes longer. Then add the Perigueux sauce, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes, fill the patd-chaud, and cover over. Bake one hour, and send to table. Leveret Pie a la Financiere Prepare in the manner directed in the foregoing recipe, adding instead a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44); after the whole has boiled together for three minutes, fill the pie, bake one hour, and serve. Godiveau Pie a la Ciboulette To one pound and a half of sifted flour add half a pound of butter, the yolk of an egg, a teaspoonful of salt, and about a gill and a half of cold water, then knead the whole into a fine, smooth paste. Take rather more than two-thirds of this, mould it into a round ball with the palm of the hand, and afterwards roll out to the size of a common dinner-plate. Take up the edges of the paste to the depth of two inches, and gather with the fingers into the shape of aRAISED PIES AND PATTIES 219 round or oval purse (according to the shape of the dish). Butter a raised pie-mould; line it with the paste, by first rolling it out and then pushing the paste into the mouldings of the case. When the mould is thus lined, fill it with some godiveau (see p. 61), previously mixed with some chopped chives, parsley, and mushrooms. Smooth the top over with the blade of a knife dipped in water, cover the pie with the remainder of the paste, and trim and decorate the edges. Place upon the top a circular piece of puff-paste, egg this over with the paste-brush, and score it with the point of a small knife, forming some device or ornament. Make a small hole in the centre for the steam to escape, bake the pie for one hour and a quarter, and when it is done, remove the top carefully with a knife; score the godiveau to the bottom, in the shape of squares or diamonds; pour some Poivrade, Italian, or Espagnole sauce over. Replace the cover, and send to table. Partridge Pie a la Chasseur Cut one or more partridges into neat joints as follows:—Remove the legs and wings; then cut the fillets with the pinion-bone adhering to them, leaving the breast-piece entire, as also the back, after having detached the thighs. Let all these be neatly trimmed without waste,- and see that the skin of the thighs is rolled under to give an appear- ance of plumpness. Next place the joints in a deep sautd-pan with two ounces of clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg; fry over a brisk fire until brown, after which add a glass of Madeira or sherry, a piece of glaze the size of a walnut, three or four truffles cut into thick slices, and a dozen button-mush- rooms. Cover and set the sautd-pan again on a moderate fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; then remove the lid, add half a pint of Brown Italian sauce, allow the whole to boil together for three minutes longer, add the juice of half a lemon, and a tea- spoonful of chopped and blanched parsley; fill the pie, keeping back the truffles and mushrooms to place on the top; pour the sauce over and cover the pie. Bake one hour, and serve. Ox= Palate Pie a ITtalienne Procure three or four fresh ox-palates, steep them in tepid water for six hours, then throw them into a large stew-pan of boiling water and scald them for about five minutes; then plunge the palates in cold water, and scrape off all the white skin from the surface; next wash them in plenty of cold water, and drain well. Place them in an oval stew-pan, moisten with some white stock, cover with buttered paper, put on the lid, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about four hours. As soon as the palates are done, press between two baking-sheets or earthenware dishes, and when cold, take a circular tin-cutter an inch in diameter and cut them into rounds without wasting any part. Put these into a stew-pan with about one dozen large button-mushrooms cut into slices, and half a pint of Brown Italian sauce ; boil the whole together for two minutes, fill the pie, and cover. Bake half an hour, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 220 Quail Pie au Madere Bone four to six quails by making an incision in the part of the back nearest the crop, through which all the bones, etc., must be drawn out, so as to give them as much as possible the appearance of being whole. Next fill each quail with some farce of fat livers (see p. 61), and truss them with their legs turned back. Then place the quails in a small sauce-pan previously lined with thin layers of fat bacon; in the centre place a bouquet garni; cover the whole with more layers of fat bacon, moisten with a little wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), and having put a buttered paper over all, cover and place on the fire, or in the oven, to simmer very gently for about three- quarters of an hour. As soon as the quails are done, drain them on a dish, let them cool, and trim them neatly. Next line the inside of the pie case with some of the remainder of the farce of fat livers, to within an inch of the top, place the quails in it in circular order, with the breasts uppermost, and a thin layer of the force-meat between each; cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, place a double round of paper well buttered on the top, and bake the pie in the oven about an hour. When done, remove the bacon, drain off all the fat; sauce sparingly with a bright Madeira (see p. 4) mixed with some reduced extract of quails made from the bones, and send to table. Lark Pie a 1’Essence Follow the preceding directions, substituting one dozen larks for the quails. Snipe Pie a la Bordelaise Bone four to six snipes, and with the trail and a quarter of a pound of fat livers make some force-meat, and with part of this fill the snipes; truss and cook them in the same way as directed for the quails. When the pie is baked, drain off the fat; garnish the edge of the pie with a close border of slices of red tongue cut in the form of large cocks’ combs, put a large truffle, bearing a double comb in the centre, and a border of these round its base; sauce the pie carefully with a rich Bordelaise (see p. 14) mixed with some reduced extract of snipes, made from the bones and serve. VOL-AU-VENTS AND TOURTES Vol = au=vent1 a la Nesle Skin and wash in several waters a set of calf’s-brains, and boil them in a stew-pan with water, a small carrot and an onion both sliced very thin, two cloves, a little mace, twelve peppercorns, and a little salt for a quarter of an hour; when done, remove them from the fire to get cold. Prepare also a throat sweetbread, which must be steeped in tepid water for two hours or more, then scalded, cooled in water, and gently simmered on the stove in some white stock for 1 Instructions for making vol-au-vent cases will be found in the section dealing with Puff-paste.22 1 VOL-AU-VENTS AND TOURTES a quarter of an hour; when done, put the sweetbread on a plate to get cold. Prepare also twelve quenelles of fowl, moulded in dessert- spoons, and poached, the same quantity of large button-mushrooms, and the same proportion of double cocks’ combs and round balls of black truffles. Put these into a middle-sized stew-pan, add the calf’s- brains and sweetbread previously cut into neat pieces, and just before dinner-time pour over the whole about half a pint of Allemande sauce. Toss the whole lightly together over the fire, and with this ragout fill a handsome vol-au-vent, cut either square, oval, or round, and serve. VoI=au=vent au Madere See the directions for a pate-chaud au Madere (see p. 220), substituting a vol-au-vent for the shell or crust. Vol=au=vent of Turbot a la Bechamel This entree is generally served when there happens to be any turbot left over from a previous day’s dinner; in which case the fish must be flaked into pieces, and warmed in a rich Bdchamel sauce made with cream ; let the vol-au-vent be filled with this, and sent to table. Vol=au=vent of Salmon a la Ravigote Procure two pounds of fresh salmon, and cut it into rather thick pieces about one inch in diameter; place these in a sauce-pan with three ounces of clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and a squeeze of lemon juice. Fry the fish for a few minutes and drain upon a kitchen paper. Next put them into a stew-pan with half a pint of Allemande sauce, add two teaspoonfuls of tarragon vinegar, the like quantity of Harvey sauce, a teaspoonful of chopped and blanched parsley, and a little cayenne; toss the whole together lightly over the fire. Fill a vol-au-vent with the mixture; cover, and serve. Vol=au=vent of Cod a la Creme Procure one and a half to two pounds of cooked cod. Flake into pieces and put into a stew-pan containing half a pint of Bechamel made with cream; to this add one ounce of grated fresh Parmesan cheese, and the juice of a lemon; toss the whole together over the fire with care, so as to avoid breaking the pieces of fish ; when quite hot, fill the vol-au-vent, cover, and serve. Vol=au=vent of Salt Fish a l’Anglaise Choose one and a half to two pounds of salt fish (middle-cut). Soak it in cold water for forty-eight hours previous to cooking, the water being changed every six hours. Put the fish on in cold water, and when it boils remove the scum, and set by the side of the fire to finish boiling. Drain well, and when all the water is absorbed from it, put it into a stew-pan containing some slices of parsnips, and slices of egg boiled hard; add half a pint of Bechamel sauce made with cream; toss the whole gently over the fire until quite hot, then fill a large vol-au-vent with this ragout, cover, and serve.222 THE MODERN COOK Tourte1 of Whiting a la Dauphine Fillet two medium whitings, and set one half aside on a plate in a cool place; with the remainder prepare some quenelle force-meat (see p. 60), and mould with dessertspoons into quenelles. Trim the remaining fillets, and cut each in two transversely. Place these in a stew-pan with four ounces of clarified butter, season with a little salt, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them; cover with thin layers of fat bacon, or a round of buttered paper, and set aside in the larder till wanted. While this is going on make an extract, or essence, with the bones and trimmings of the whitings, as follows:— Put the bones, etc., into a stew-pan with a shalot, one bay leaf and a sprig of thyme, eight peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a few sprigs of parsley ; moisten with a glass of white wine (French is preferable), and a pint of white stock. Leave to boil gently on the fire for half an hour, then strain and boil down nearly to a glaze, and mix with half a pint or more of Allemande or Bechamel sauce. Pass it through a tammy or fine strainer into a stew-pan, containing the quenelles of whiting, with the addition of a dozen button-mushrooms and one ounce of truffles, cut into thick slices; toss the whole together gently over the fire until quite hot, then fill the tourte with this ragout and with the fillets of whiting (previously set in the oven for ten minutes to simmer, and afterwards drained). Cover, and serve quickly. Tourte of Qodiveau au Madere Prepare about three-quarters of a pound of godiveau (see p. 61), and make it into small quenelles in the following manner:—Shake a handful of flour over a pastry-slab; make up the godiveau with a teaspoon in small quantities; then roll each of these in the flour with the fingers dipped in flour, to the size and form of an ordinary cork; set them in rows upon a baking-sheet, and bake in the oven for about ten minutes; when done, put them into a stew-pan con- taining about half a pint of Madeira sauce, and also two artichoke- bottoms cut into angular pieces, a few pieces of sweetbread, and a few large button-mushrooms; set the whole to boil on the fire for three minutes; fill the tourte, pour in the remainder of the sauce, cover, and serve. Tourte of Lobster a la Cardinal Choose a nice fresh lobster, and remove the shell. Cut the flesh into neat pieces ; put these into a stew-pan containing half a pint of good Bechamel sauce, mixed with about two ounces of lobster coral butter (see p. 42), a little cayenne, and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire until sufficiently hot, and fill the tourte ; put the cover on, and serve. 1 Directions for making this kind of Tourte will be found in the section dealing with l’uff-pastry.223 TIMBALES OF MACARONI TIMBALES OF MACARONI Timbale of Macaroni a la Milanaise The timbale case when baked should be left in the mould to keep hot in the oven, and when on the point of sending to table should be filled with macaroni dressed with cheese, some Bdchamel sauce, pieces of fowl, truffles, tongue, and mushrooms; turn the timbale out on a dish, pour some Bechamel sauce round the base, and serve. Timbale of Nouilles a la Chasseur Prepare about half a pound of nouilles (see p. 208), parboil these in water for ten minutes; drain, and put them into a stew-pan with a pint of good consomme, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of mignonette pepper; cover the whole with a round piece of buttered paper, put on the lid, and set the stew-pan on the fire to boil very gently until the consommti is reduced; add a gill of Allemande sauce, one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and eighteen very small quenelles of game, previously poached; toss the whole together lightly over the fire until the cheese is well mixed with the other ingredients; fill the timbale case (previously prepared), turn it out of the mould into a dish, glaze over, pour a little half-glaze round the base, and serve. Timbale with Soft Roes of Mackerel Five minutes before sending to table fill the prepared timbale case, which must be quite hot, with a ragout of soft roes of mackerel (see p. 46); then turn the timbale out of the mould into the dish, glaze it nicely, pour a little Supreme or Bechamel sauce round the base, and serve. Timbale of Raviolis a la Romaine Prepare eighteen raviolis (see p. 103), and after they have been boiled in consomme, drain them and put them into a stew-pan containing one ounce of truffles cut into slices, two ounces of red tongue cut into slices, and about six mushrooms ; to these add a glass of Madeira and a small piece of game glaze, and set the whole to boil down quickly over a brisk fire; when the wine is absorbed, add one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese and half a pint of reduced Espagnole sauce; toss these together over the fire until quite hot, then fill the timbale case, turn it out into a dish, glaze it, pour a little brown sauce or half-glaze round the base, and serve. CASSEROLES OR BORDERS OF RICE Casseroles or Borders of Rice A casserole of rice is rightly considered one of the most elegant entrees ; it requires great care throughout its preparation, especially in the treatment of the rice, that being its basis. If the rice be not224 THE MODERN COOK sufficiently boiled and effectually worked into a smooth paste, it becomes a difficult matter to mould it, and any apparent roughness would spoil the look of the casserole. For a casserole of ordinary size wash about a pound of Carolina rice in three waters, drain it on a sieve, and put it into a stew-pan with twice its quantity of water; cover and set the rice to boil on the stove, after which it must be put in the oven, or on the side of the stove, to simmer very gently. During the time that the rice remains on the fire it should be carefully stirred with a spoon now and again. When all the grains are perfectly soft the rice must be worked into a firm, smooth paste with the bowl of a large wooden spoon ; it should next be rolled into the form of a ball and placed on a baking - sheet, previously covered with a circular piece of buttered paper, and shaped to the height and circumference desired. Next, for the purpose of imprinting upon the casserole some desired form of ornamental mouldings, it will be necessary to cut a piece of turnip, carrot, or raw potato in the shape of a chisel, to be used for indenting or moulding the design. When the casserole is moulded it must be brushed over with clarified butter, and afterwards baked a fine yellow colour; the interior must then be removed with a spoon, leaving the walls of the crust about half an inch thick; smooth the inside of the rice with the back of a tablespoon dipped in water, and keep the casserole in a dry warm place till it is wanted for use. Casserole of Rice a la Polonaise Prepare a puree of fowl (see p. ioo), and when on the point of sending to table, stir it over the fire until it is sufficiently hot; then fill the casserole with the puree, put small fillets of fowl decorated with tongue or truffle round the top of the puree, sauce the surface with some Supreme, and serve. Casserole of Rice a la Reine The casserole must be filled with a puree of fowl in a similar manner to the foregoing, and a border of quenelles of fowl placed round the inner edge of the surface; sauce with Supreme, glaze the casserole with light-coloured glaze, and serve. Casserole of Rice garnished with a Puree of Game a la Belle = Vue Just before dinner-time warm the puree of game (see p. ior) prepared for the purpose, fill the casserole of rice with it, place round the inner edge of the surface a border of very small fillets of the kind of game the puree is made from, pour a little Allemande sauce over the centre, glaze the casserole lightly, and serve. Casserole of Rice garnished with Wings of Fowls a l’Allemande Fill a casserole of rice with a ragout of wings of fowls (see p. 48), to which may be added some small truffles and mushrooms; ornament225 ORNAMENTAL POTATO BORDERS with slices of red tongue cut in the form of cocks’ combs, placed alternately round the inner edge of the casserole, glaze it lightly, and serve. Note.—Casseroles or Borders of rice may also be garnished with fricassee of chicken, lamb’s-feet, blanquette of sweetbread or fowl, and with all kinds of scallops, whether of poultry, game, or fish. ORNAMENTAL POTATO BORDERS Potato Border with Larks and Truffles A border of potato paste resembles in a great measure a casserole of rice, and is prepared as follows :— For an ordinary size entree six to eight medium-sized potatoes should be baked, and their pulp afterwards rubbed through a fine wire-sieve upon a dish ; this must be put into a middle-sized stew-pan with two ounces of butter, the yolks of two eggs, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon over a slow fire until the mixture becomes a smooth, firm paste; it should then be rolled into a ball, placed on a baking-sheet, and shaped to the desired requirement. The border should now be moulded in the same way as a casserole of rice, and executed with a piece of raw carrot or turnip, cut in the form of a chisel. When the border is moulded, it should be brushed over with beaten egg, and baked in an oven a light-yellow colour; when done, part of the inside must be removed, and the cavity smoothed over with the back of the bowl of a spoon. The border ought to be kept in a warm dry place till wanted for use. Fill it with a ragout of scallops of larks (see p. 47) and truffles, place a border of small quenelles of fowl round the edge, lightly glaze the border, pour a little of the sauce round the base, and serve. Potato Border with Ox=Palates a l’Indienne Prepare the ox-palates according to the directions contained on p. 219, add enough well-reduced Indian Curry sauce for the entree, warm the ragout, and fill the border with it just before sending to table. Some plain boiled Patna rice must be served separately. Potato Border garnished with Scallops of Sheep’s Tongues and Fine Herbs Scald two or three sheep’s tongues thoroughly so as to be able to remove the outer skin easily; then trim them, and afterwards put them into a stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, and half-a-dozen peppercorns; moisten with a pint of stock, and set them to cook gently for about an hour. When done, drain them on a dish, and put them in the larder to get cold, afterwards to be cut into neat round slices ; put these into a stew-pan with two dozen prepared button-mushrooms, and enough well-reduced QTHE MODERN COOK 226 Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5), for the entree; toss these together over the fire to warm them thoroughly, fill the border with this ragout, glaze round, and serve. Potato Border with Calf’s Brains a la Ravigote Steep a set of calf’s brains in tepid water for several hours, and as soon as the thin membrane which covers the brains becomes loosened, detach it gently with the fingers; change the water frequently, and when the brains have become comparatively white put them into a stew-pan with a pint of boiling water, a teaspoonful of vinegar, some sliced carrot, onion, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, mignonette pepper, and salt; allow them to boil gently by the side of the fire for twenty minutes, then remove the brains carefully with a large spoon into another stew-pan, pass the liquor through a sieve on to the brains, and set them aside till within twenty minutes of dinner- time. The brains must then be warmed in their liquor, and afterwards cut into thick slices lengthwise, and placed in the border in circular order, overlapping each other; pour a Ravigote sauce (see p. 19) over the brains, glaze the border, and serve. VEGETABLE AND FORCE-MEAT CHARTREUSES Chartreuse of Vegetables with Partridge Scrub and scrape three or four large carrots, and boil them in water with a little salt; when done, place on a dish in the larder to get cold. In the meantime four large turnips should be peeled, and boiled in the same way as the carrots, and then put on a dish to cool. Next, a plain round mould must be lined with buttered paper, and the prepared carrots and turnips cut into appropriate forms or shapes for the purpose of arranging them over the bottom and round the inside of the mould, taking care that they fit in with each other, so as to represent a neatly arranged appearance. Parboil a large savoy cabbage in water, after which squeeze the moisture from it; take out the core, season with mignonette pepper and salt, and tie up with string. Then put the cabbage into a stew-pan with a partridge trussed with the legs inside, four ounces of streaky bacon (previously parboiled), and half a saveloy; season with an onion stuck with four cloves, a carrot, and a bunch of herbs; moisten with a pint of stock, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and leave to braise gently for about two hours. When done, drain the cabbage on to a colander, put the partridge, bacon, and saveloy on a dish to cool; squeeze the broth from the cabbage; then chop it and use to fill the bottom and sides of the chartreuse, about an inch thick. The partridge must be cut up neatly into small pieces, tossed in enough brown sauce to moisten them, and then placed in the cavity of the chartreuse in close order, so as to give solidity when turned out of the mould on a dish ; a layer of prepared cabbage should be placed over these, and the whole covered with a circular piece of buttered paper. An hour before dinner, the chartreuseVEGETABLE AND FORCE-MEAT CHARTREUSES 227 must be placed in a stew-pan with sufficient water to reach up only one-third the height of the mould; cover, and put the stew-pan near or upon a slow fire to keep the water gently simmering, so that the steam may warm the chartreuse through. When about to serve, turn the chartreuse upside down in the dish, and draw the mould off with care, remove the paper, and garnish the base with a close border of the bacon and saveloy cut into slices; pour some brown sauce round the entree, glaze the chartreuse carefully, so as not to disturb the order of the vegetables, and serve. These directions will serve for the preparation of several kinds of chartreuses; pheasant, duckling, pigeon, etc., being substituted for partridge. Chartreuse of Vegetables with Quails The preparation of this kind of chartreuse is very similar to the foregoing, cabbage lettuce being substituted for savoy; the following are the only alterations required: The mould must be either oval or round, and should be lined with buttered paper, and ornamented with carrots and turnips prepared according to the directions given in the first part of the previous recipe, and afterwards cut out, either with a small knife or proper shaped tin-cutters, to suit the design intended to be represented. The cavity left in the mould, after it has been decorated with the vegetables, must be filled up with the braised cabbage lettuce. When about to send to table, turn the chartreuse out on its dish, place the quails (prepared as for a paffi-chaud (see p. 220) and kept warm) upon the upper part of the chartreuse, with their breasts outward; fill the centre of the entree with a Jardiniere of vegetables (see p. 167), garnish the base with slices of the streaky bacon and saveloy, pour some thin bright Espagnole sauce round the entree, glaze the chartreuse lightly, and serve. Chartreuse of Vegetables with Veal In this case the chartreuse should be prepared in the same manner as described in the foregoing recipe; and when turned out on its dish preparatory to serving it, the top of the border must be garnished with braised tendons of veal (see p. 257), placed in the same way as cutlets are dished up; the well or centre of the entree must be filled with stewed peas, then pour some brown sauce round the base, glaze the chartreuse, and serve. This kind of chartreuse may be garnished with pieces of pheasants, partridges, larks, etc.; and also with blanquettes of fowls, lambs’ sweetbreads, etc. The ornamental part of these entries may be much varied by using asparagus-heads, green peas, French beans, artichoke-bottoms, glazed button-onions, carrots, and turnips cut out in fanciful shapes and forms. A good effect is produced by arranging a decoration in relief on the top of the chartreuse after it has been turned out of the mould on to its dish ; its base may also be garnished with alternate groups of vegetables cut in small fanciful shapes and prepared in the usual manner.THE MODERN COOK 228 Chartreuse a la Parisienne First prepare some quenelle force-meat (see p. 59) with the fillets of a fowl; trim the tails of eighteen boiled crayfish, and then simmer these in a little clarified butter and lemon juice over the fire till they are done ; put them on a plate, covered with thin layers of fat bacon, to keep moist, until wanted for further use. Next butter a charlotte mould, and dispose round the inner angle of the bottom a close border of crayfish-tails; while up the sides of the mould some long strips, or pipes of black truffle (cut out with a vegetable-cutter), must be arranged alternately with the prepared fillets of fowl, so as to form a decoration representing the “ Grecian key border.” Round the top of this, which, when the mould is turned upside down, forms the base, place another close border of crayfish-tails; after which the bottom and sides of the chartreuse must be lined with a coating of the prepared quenelle force- meat, thus :—Butter a circular piece of paper cut exactly to the size of the mould, and spread over it a layer of the force-meat an inch thick ; smooth this over with a knife dipped in hot water, and then, with great care, take hold of the sides of the paper with both hands, and turn it upside down into the mould. Next cut three pieces of paper to fit in with each other, so as effectually to line the mould; butter these, and then spread them with force-meat, as directed for the bottom piece, and apply them in the same way to the sides. Smooth the cavity with a spoon dipped in hot water, and fill it to within an inch of its surface with a thickly garnished Toulouse ragout (see p. 43). Cover the top with force-meat, leaving the piece of paper on, and keep the chartreuse in a cool place till within two hours of dinner-time. It should then be put to steam in a deep stew-pan containing sufficient water to reach nearly half-way up the mould. The water must be kept continually simmering by the side of a slow fire, and the stew-pan covered with its lid contain- ing live embers. Note.—When this cooking process is performed in the oven no charcoal is needed to be placed on top of cover. When the chartreuse is done, turn it out of the mould carefully into a dish; cover the top with a border of button-mushrooms, placed near the edge, and in the centre put a star, formed with eight very small fillets of fowl, decorated with black truffles; garnish the base of the chartreuse with some thin Toulouse ragout, glaze the sides lightly, and serve. Chartreuse en Belle = Vue Butter the inside of a plain cylinder mould, and arrange round the bottom and sides a bold decoration, formed with black truffles and red tongue; after which carefully fill up the interior of the mould with some very delicate quenelle force-meat, prepared from the fillets of a partridge. About an hour before dinner-time, the chartreuse must be put on to steam, as in the previous recipe; when done, turn out on to a dish; fill the centre with a ragofit of pieces of partridge, in a rich Madeira sauce; glaze the chartreuse, and serve.229 ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES OF BREAD Chartreuse a la Cardinal Trim the fillets of three soles. Prepare some lobster quenelle force-meat (see p. 60). Then butter the inside of a plain charlotte mould, and line with the fillets of soles; next line the bottom and sides of the chartreuse with some of the lobster force-meat, in the same way as directed for the chartreuse a la Parisienne; fill the cavity with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), the sauce of which must be kept stiff, and used cold for this purpose; cover the top with a layer of force-meat, and steam the chartreuse for one hour and a half; when done, place upside down on a dish, and draw the mould off carefully in order to avoid disarranging the fillets. Garnish the edges of the chartreuse with a close border of small round truffles, pour some thin Parisian ragout (see p. 46) round the base, and serve. Chartreuse au Chaudfroid de Gibier Free from skin and bone some cold cooked game—grouse, partridge, or pheasant—and cut the meat into neat slices. Prepare a rich brown sauce flavoured with the carcase of the game (made into fumet), strain, and add a few sheets of gelatine dissolved in sufficient aspic jelly to make the sauce set, but not too firmly. The consistency of the Chaudfroid sauce must be tested before use. Line a plain mould with a layer of aspic, decorate it suitably with cooked vegetables, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, then pour in a layer of brown Chaudfroid sauce. When set, place in a layer of the slices of cold game, flavoured with seasoning and a little sherry; pour over some sauce and continue thus until the mould is full, then place it on the ice to set. Decorate the shape when dished up with red-currant jelly, cubes of aspic, and parsley. ORNAMENTAL CROUSTADES OF BREAD Ornamental Croustades For a croustade of ordinary dimensions, a four-pound loaf of close bread should be procured two days before it is wanted, as it must be stale for this purpose. In order to prevent waste, the loaf should be baked in an oval, square, or round tin, according to the intended form of the croustade ; and when this is required for a remove or entree, the loaf must be made of a proportionate size. When the crust has been pared off the loaf with a sharp knife, it must be carved in the form of a fluted or chased vase or cup, accord- ing to taste and fancy. The croustade thus carved must next be fried a light-fawn colour in some hot fat, preferably lard, the inside crumb carefully taken out, and the cavity smoothly covered with a thin coating of quenelle force-meat, so as to prevent the escape or absorption of the sauce from the entree; when filled, the croustade must be put in the oven for five minutes, to bake the quenelle force-meat, and be kept hot until served.230 THE MODERN COOK Croustade with Calves’ Tails a la Poulette Scald two small calves’ tails with the skin on, in the same way as calves’ heads; cut these up into neat pieces, parboil them in water for five minutes, and then plunge them in cold water; after which drain, trim, and place them in a stew-pan with a carrot, an onion, bouquet garni, four cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns ; moisten with a quart of stock or water, in which latter case add some salt; and leave to boil gently for about an hour by the side of the fire. When the tails are done, drain them, trim them neatly, and place them in the croustade in pyramidal form, pour over a rich sauce k la Poulette, containing a handful of button-mushrooms, and serve. Croustade with Lamb’s Brains a la Matelote The brains must be prepared as directed on p. 226, and when they are done, put to drain upon a cloth, preparatory to being cut into neat pieces, and afterwards placed in circular order in the croustade. Pour over a Matelote sauce (see p. 9), made of two glasses of white wine with a little cayenne and lemon juice, and con- taining some small button-onions, previously simmered in butter, truffles cut in slices, and a few mushrooms, and serve. Croustade of Goose Livers a l’Epicurienne When about to send the croustade to table, fill it with a ragout of fat livers, prepared as follows :— Wrap two goose livers in thin layers of fat bacon, and simmer them very gently in a wine mirepoix (see p. 57) for half an hour; then remove the stew-pan from the fire, and allow the livers to cool in their liquor; they must now be taken out, cut into slices without waste, and placed in a small deep stew-pan containing one ounce of black Perigord truffles cut into slices, and a few button-mushrooms; to these add about half the mirepoix, freed from every particle of fat, and set the whole to boil briskly over the fire until the moisture is partly reduced to a glaze; toss the whole together over the fire, and use this ragout as directed above. Croustade with Quails a la Bourguignonne Cut a croustade in the form of a cup, not more than five inches high, and decorate appropriately. When the croustade has been fried, the inner crumb must be removed, and the interior lined with a well-seasoned farce of fat livers (see p. 61), previously prepared for the purpose, and four to six quails boned and filled with some of the farce, then trussed and partially braised; these must then be neatly garnished round with some of the farce, covered over with thin layers of fat bacon, and a thick band of buttered paper, secured with string, placed round the croustade to prevent it from acquiring more colour while in the oven. About an hour before dinner-time, set the croustade in a moderately heated oven to bake. Just before sending to table, remove the paper and bacon, remove all the surface fat. and place the croustade carefully on a dish.231 TURBANS AND MAZARINES Note.—Ornamental croustades of bread may also be filled with puree of fowl a la Reine, ditto of game a la Polonaise, etc.; and with almost every kind of ragout or garnish directed to be used for pates-chauds, vol-au-vents, borders of rice and potato, for which see those recipes. TURBANS AND MAZARINES Turban of Ox=Palates a la Perigueux Prepare and braise four to six ox-palates, and when done, place them between two dishes to press them flat; prepare about half a pound of gratin force-meat (see p. 61), also twelve fillets of fowl, and cover them with thin layers of bacon till wanted. Next roll out about four ounces of ordinary short crust to the size of a dessert-plate, and bake in a moderate oven; this is to serve for a foundation to raise the entree upon. Next trim half the ox- palates, split each in two with a sharp knife in the same way as thin layers of bacon are cut; spread the rough side with a thin layer of the gratin force-meat, then roll them up; put the piece of rolled- out paste on to a round baking-sheet; spread it with a layer of the force-meat a quarter of an inch thick, and after having trimmed the rolled ox-palates, to make them fit in with each other in circular order, place them firmly together on the foundation of paste prepared to receive them, taking care to put a little force-meat between each, to fill up the fissures, and join them together; upon each fissure, one of the decorated fillets must be neatly laid, and turned under to secure it. The remaining pieces of ox-palates must then be trimmed, garnished with force-meat like the former, and afterwards cut to the sizo of two-thirds of the others ; and with these smaller rolls of ox- palates a second tier must be formed upon the first, in similar fashion, with a decorated fillet upon each joining. Any roughness caused by the force-meat must be neatly smoothed over with a knife, dipped in water; a thick carrot, or piece of bread, cut in the shape of a pillar, and covered with fat bacon, should be placed in the centre of the entree, to support its shape while being baked. The whole of the turban must be covered in with thin layers of fat bacon, and these must be secured on by means of a thick band of buttered paper, cut in slits round the base (to enable it to fit closer), and secured round the entree with string : this will serve also to keep the turban in shape. One hour and a half before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, etc., place the turban on its dish, fill the centre with a ragout of small truffles, pour some Perigueux sauce round the base of the entree, lightly glaze the palates, without touching the fillets,—which must be kept as white as possible,—and serve. Turban of Chicken a la Prince de Galles Prepare one-half to three-quarters of a pound of quenelle force-meat of fowl (see p. 59) or veal; and with part of it fill a plain cylindrical mould, measuring about four inches high and six in diameter,232 THE MODERN COOK previously buttered inside. This must be steamed in a covered stew- pan, with a little water in it; and when done, turned out of the mould upon a plate, and allowed to cool; it should then be placed upon a foundation of baked paste, the angles of the quenelle rounded, and the whole of it covered with a thin coating of force- meat ; upon this turban of quenelle six larded fillets of fowls should be placed with the point made to turn over the top. Secure the entree round with a band of buttered paper made fast with string. Three-quarters of an hour before dinner-time put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, glaze the larded fillets brightly, garnish the centre of the entree with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the same round the base, and serve. Turban of Rabbit a la Financiere Take the fillets from one large rabbit, trim, and lard them closely. With the flesh of the legs prepare eight to ten ounces of quenelle force-meat, and use part of this to make a cylindrical foundation, as in the foregoing recipe; when cold trim the top of this round, and after it has been spread with a thin coating of the force-meat, lay the larded fillets round its sides in a slanting position, with the small end of each turned over at the top, and made to reach about an inch down tire cylinder. A buttered band of paper must be placed round the turban and secured with string. An hour before dinner- time, put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, glaze the larded fillets, fill the centre of the entree with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), pour some round the base, and serve. Turban of Hare a la Conti Take the fillets of a young hare and trim them neatly. Use,the flesh of the legs to prepare eight ounces of quenelle force-meat; and, as in the foregoing recipe, a foundation must be made with part of this, to raise the turban upon it. When the cylinder of force-meat has been poached or steamed, and is cold enough, place it upon the foundation of paste, trim the top round, and spread it over with a coating of force-meat; lay the decorated fillets of hare slantingly round the sides with their tapering points secured inside the cylinder with a little force-meat, and cover the turban with a band of paper in the usual way. An hour before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to be baked, and when it is done, remove the paper, dish it up, fill the centre with scallops of black truffles and white mushrooms, pour some brown Italian sauce over and round the entree, and serve. Note.—The two foregoing entries may be varied in their appear- ance by larding one half of the fillets, and decorating the remainder with truffles or red tongue. Turban of Sole a la Ximenes Trim the fillets of two medium-sized soles; prepare eight to ten ounces of quenelle force-meat with one or two whiting, with part of which make a cylindrical foundation in the manner described for Turban of Chicken h la Prince de Galles. Spread a coating of force-233 ENTREES OF BEEF meat over this, and then place the fillets of soles round it in a slanting position; the fillets must be neatly turned under the base, and securely fastened inside the cylinder with the point of a knife and a little force-meat. Cover the turban with a band of buttered paper secured with string. An hour before dinner-time, put the turban in the oven to bake; when done, remove the paper, place the turban carefully on a dish, pour some Tomato sauce round the base, and serve. Mazarine of Whiting a la Venitienne Prepare eight to ten ounces of quenelle force-meat with the fillets of one or two whiting, and mix with it a gill of puree of mushrooms, (see p. 30), one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, one ounce of black truffles also chopped, and one whisked white of egg. Next butter a plain round mould, line the inside with white paper, and then fill it with the force-meat. An hour before dinner-time, steam the mazarine in the usual way, and when done, turn out of the mould on a dish ; place a border of fillets of whitings round the top, pour some Venetian sauce round the sides of the mazarine, and serve. Mazarine of Goose Livers a la Toulouse Procure two fine Strasbourg goose livers, cut twelve flat scallops in the form of flat fingers, and with the trimmings make some force- meat (see p. 61). Next line a plain round mould with buttered white paper, and then fill it with the prepared ingredients, thus :— Spread a layer of force-meat half an inch thick at the bottom of the mould, then line the sides in a similar manner; place the scallops of fat livers in a perpendicular position, fill up the interstices with the remainder of the force-meat, and cover the top with buttered paper. An hour and a half before dinner-time, steam the mazarine in a deep stew-pan with a little water, and cover it with its lid con- taining live embers of charcoal. Care must be taken to prevent the water from boiling over into the mould. When the mazarine is done, turn it out of the mould on a dish, pour some Madeira sauce over the entree, and serve. ENTREES OF BEEF Plain Rump = Steak Take one and a half pounds of rump-steak cut rather thick. Trim neatly, season with a little pepper and salt, and broil over a clear fire; when done, remove it carefully from the gridiron in order to preserve the gravy which collects on its upper surface. Place the steak on a dish, rub a small pat of fresh butter over it, garnish with grated horse-radish, and send some beef gravy separately to table in a sauce-boat. Many, however, prefer the gravy which runs out of a juicy steak when well broiled to any other addition. Small ribs of beef, and especially steaks cut from between the small ribs, form an excellent substitute for rump-steaks; both, when nicely broiled, may be served with cold Maitre d’Hotel butter,THE MODERN COOK 234 anchovy ditto; and also with the following sauces: Brown Oyster, Mussel, Italian, Piquante, Poor Man’s, Poivrade, Tomato, Provengale, Fine Herbs, etc. ; for making which see under the Special Recipes. Beef=steak a la Frangaise Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef across the grain of the meat into six pieces; flatten these with the cutlet-bat, and trim them to a round or oval form; dip the steaks in a little clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and place them on the gridiron over a clear fire to broil; when done, glaze on both sides, dish up on two ounces of cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. n), garnish with fried potatoes, and serve with a small piece of broiled suet on each fillet. These potatoes must be cut or turned in the form of olives, and fried in a little clarified butter. Fillets of Beef a la Quirinal Take 8 small fillets of beef (each about 5 oz.), 1 tin foie gras naturel, 2 large truffles, larding bacon, 2 oz.. butter, 2 shalots, 2 small carrots (young), 1 glass sherry, 8 champignons, 1 dessert- spoonful meat glaze, 1 gill demi-glace sauce, 1 teaspoonful lemon juice, salt and pepper, Parisian potatoes. Flatten the fillets slightly, pare and trim them into round, flat shapes. Insert a few strips of larding bacon in each so as to form a star. Melt the butter in a saute-pan ; when hot, place in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire for some minutes; turn them occasionally so that they acquire a nice brown colour on each side. Take them up, and saute eight neat slices of foie gras in the same butter. Dress the fillets and foie gras escallops alternately on a round dish in the form of a circle. Have ready a rich sauce prepared as follows:— Cut the carrot (red part only), mushrooms (champignons), and one shalot into small dice. Cook the carrot and one shalot in a little stock, mince finely the other shalot and fry in butter, add the wine and the other ingredients (cut in dice), cover and cook for ten minutes, skim, add the sauce and half the meat glaze. Season the sauce with pepper, salt, and a little cayenne, and flavour with lemon juice. Cut the truffle into slices, dissolve the remainder of meat extract with a few drops of stock, glaze the slices of truffle in this, and place them on top of the fillets. Sauce over the whole care- fully, and fill the centre with Parisian potatoes. Fillets of Beef a la Rossini Take about lb. fillet of beef, 2 oz. butter, 6 large chicken livers, 1 truffle, 8 round pieces of fried bread, £ gill Lucca oil, 1 shalot, 2 oz. foie gras, pepper and salt, meat glaze, demi-glace sauce. Trim the fillet, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness, flatten and trim neatly (each slice should weigh from three to three and a half ounces when trimmed). Put a quarter of a gill of oil and an ounce of butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the fillets, and cook over a quick fire; they should be rather underdone235 ENTREES OF BEEF unless otherwise ordered; they will take from five to seven minutes at the most. When done, place them on a dish, season with salt and pepper, and brush over with meat glaze. Prepare beforehand the following farce :—Wash the livers and cut them into fine slices. Fry the finely chopped shalot in butter, put in the liver, and toss over the fire for a few minutes, season, pound in a mortar with the foie gras and a large tablespoonful of brown sauce, pass through a sieve, divide the farce into eight portions, and spread over one side of the eight fillets. Place each on rounds of fried bread, poach in a hot oven for a few seconds only, brush over with meat glaze, dish up, place a slice of truffle on top of each, and serve with demi-glace sauce. Fillets of Beef a la Seymour Cut some thin slices of fillet of beef, trim them, and sauffl them in butter. Season to taste, and place each on an artichoke-bottom previously heated and seasoned, dish up in a circle, cover each with a well-flavoured Bearnaise sauce (see p. 468), place a slice of truffle on each, and fill the centre with stuffed French olives. Sauce over with demi-glace, and serve. Fillets of Beef a la Madeleine Cut eight slices of fillet of beef of equal size, each weighing about a quarter of a pound; beat them a little and trim them neatly. Prepare as many croutons of bread, the same size as the tournedos ; fry them in clarified butter and drain. Warm up in a small earthenware pan two ounces of meat glaze, work in with a wooden spoon gradually three ounces of fresh butter; work vigorously until it resembles a light creamy substance, adding in the meantime the juice of one large lemon, one shalot, a sprig of tarragon, one of chervil, one of chive, and a few sprigs of parsley, all chopped very fine; season with salt, pepper, and a little cayenne. Parboil about one dozen new kidney potatoes, previously scraped; drain and fry them in butter a nice light yellow; season with salt and pepper, and when done sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put a little butter in a saute- pan ; when hot, add the tournedos; let them brown one side, then turn and let brown the other side, over a quick fire ; now season with pepper and salt, dish up each on a crouton of bread, place them on a dish, put the potatoes round the fillets in rows; put a dessert- spoonful of the prepared butter over the top of each, leaving a little space in the centre for a few drops of dissolved meat glaze, and send to table. Fillets of Beef a la Moscovienne Choose a nice piece of tender loin or sirloin of beef, remove all the sinews and fat, cut it into even-sized oblong slices, flatten a little with the cutlet-bat, and lard them with small strips of larding bacon, raw ham, and truffles, so that they are inserted in alternate rows. Place the tournedos in a flat stew-pan, cover them with a few slices of fat bacon, add half a sliced onion, half a sliced carrot, and a small bunch of savoury herbs. Season with pepper and salt, moisten with236 THE MODERN COOK a gill of white wine and a gill of brown stock. Cover and cook briskly over the fire from fifteen to twenty minutes. Drain the tournedos, remove the bacon, add half a pint of Espagnole sauce and a dessertspoonful of grated horse-radish to the liquor. Let all reduce well, and strain into a small stew-pan. Remove all fat, and finish the sauce with a pinch of castor sugar and an ounce of fresh butter, worked in bit by bit; keep the sauce warm. Glaze and dish up the fillets, garnish with alternate groups of button-mushrooms, previously warmed in well-reduced stock, and small button-onions (braised). Sauce over carefully and serve hot. Beef = Steak en Casserole Cut a large piece of rump-steak into four or five round flat fillets, beat them a little with a cutlet-bat, trim or pare, and season them with salt and pepper. Fry them slightly on each side in a little butter over a quick fire, and set them aside. Peel and chop finely a moderate-sized onion, fry it in a small stew-pan with half an ounce of butter to a golden colour. Moisten with a glass of Marsala or Madeira wine and two large tablespoonfuls of brown sauce. Boil up, and add a tablespoonful of piccalilli or mixed pickles, two ounces of fried bacon cut into dice, cut up small eight to ten small cham- pignons, one small carrot cooked and cut into cubes, one potato cooked and cut into dice. Heat up, and put it in a fireproof earthenware casserole, place the fillets on top. Sprinkle over a little dissolved meat glaze. Cover and cook in the oven for five to ten minutes. Serve hot in the casserole. Beef =Steaks with Anchovy Butter These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, but anchovy butter must be substituted for Maitre d’Hotel. French Beef-Steaks These are always cut from the fillet part, and may be served with any of the savoury butters described in this work; they may also be garnished with Indian pickle, water-cress, olives stoned or turned, and with all the varieties of common pickles, or with either of the sauces named for small rib-steaks. Glazed Fillets of Beef Cut one pound of trimmed fillet of beef into six pieces, flatten and trim these either round or oval, season with pepper and salt, put them in a sautd-pan containing two ounces of clarified butter. Ten minutes before sending them to table, set the saute-pan on a clear fire, and fry the fillets a brown colour; when done on both sides, pour off the fat, add a tablespoonful of glaze and twice as much brown sauce, and the juice of half a lemon; allow the whole to boil for one minute on the fire, dish the fillets with a piece of fat on each, place a few cooked mushrooms in the centre, and pour the sauce over. Note.—Fillets of beef prepared in this manner may be dressed237 ENTREES OF BEEF with either oysters, mussels, olives, truffles, gherkins cut into scallops, fried onions, fine herbs, morels, etc., added to the sauce after they have been fried, instead of the mushrooms, as in the foregoing recipe. They may also be served when finished, with the addition of a piece of glaze and enough brown sauce for the entree, with every kind of puree of vegetables, and vegetable garnish mentioned in these recipes, or with any of the sauces recommended to be served with broiled steaks. In all cases, the garnish of these entrees should be placed in the centre of the fillets, in a conical form, and the sauce poured round the fillets. Planked Sirloin=Steak with Oysters Take a double sirloin - steak, trim it neatly, and put it on the broiler. Grill for five minutes on one side, turn, and grill for five minutes on the other side. Make the planking-board very hot whilst the steak is cooking. Put the steak on, garnish the board quickly with mashed potatoes, and put it under the broiler. Turn the steak once. Season with salt and pepper and rub it with butter. Cover the top with broiled oysters, then grill again for a few minutes. Serve hot. Planked Salisbury Steak (American) Chop finely three-quarters of a pound of lean beef-steak, season with salt, pepper, and onion juice : shape it into three even-sized cakes. Put these on to a hot plate and place under the broiler or griller; turn the steaks twice whilst cooking. When done, garnish the plank with mashed potatoes, and allow to brown. Have ready a baked banana for each cake. Make a cream sauce and flavour it with an ample quantity of grated horse-radish ; fill this round the board ; place the baked bananas on top, and serve. Chateaubriand a la Scribe Cut two or more double fillets of beef weighing six to eight ounces each. Trim and pare lightly, season with pepper and salt, and grill them, rather underdone, over or in front of a clear fire. Glaze them with dissolved meat glaze. Dish up, and garnish with small choux- paste croustades filled with foie gras ragoftt, and mashed potatoes (pommes duchesse). Send to table with a boat of Madbre sauce. Entrecotes a la St. Clair Cut two or three steaks from a sirloin of prime beef, flatten each a little with a cutlet-bat, and trim sparingly. Brush over each steak with oiled butter, and grill them over or in front of a clear fire so as to brown each side (they must be quite underdone and juicy). Have ready some anchovy butter made by wiping and boning six Gorgona anchovies, pound these with an ounce of butter, and rub through a hair-sieve. Season the sirloin - steaks, place them on a dish, and spread over with the butter. Put the dish in a hot oven for a few moments, then garnish with straw potatoes (pommes pailles), and serve quickly.THE MODERN COOK 238 Tournedos k la Ventadour Cut some small fillets of beef and flatten them slightly with a wetted cutlet-bat. Trim each neatly, season with salt and pepper, and fry in a saute-pan with sweet oil (huile de Provence). Dress the fillets in the form of a crown or border on a hot dish, place a thin slice of beef marrow, previously blanched and baked in the oven, on each fillet, also a thin slice of truffle. Fill the centre with artichoke puree, made hot and suitably seasoned. Sauce over carefully with Colbert sauce, and serve quickly. Minced Beef with Poached Eggs Remove the fat and skin from one pound of roast beef, cut it into thin small slices, and then mince these very finely. Put the mince into a stew-pan with half a pint of brown sauce and a small piece of glaze, stir the whole over the fire until quite hot, dish up in conical form, place three or four poached eggs round the mince, pour a little brown sauce round the base, and serve. For those who like plenty of seasoning, some grated nutmeg, lemon peel, and cayenne pepper may be added to the mince. Minced Beef a la Portuguaise Mince one pound of roast or braised beef, and put into a stew-pan. Next put two glasses of port wine into a stew-pan with one chopped shalot, the rind of half an orange cut into small shreds, a little grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and the juice of half a lemon; boil these ingredients down to one-third of their original quantity, add a gill of Espagnole sauce, and mix the preparation with the minced beef; dish up in conical form, shake some browned bread-crumbs over it; place a border round the base of six oval scallops of red tongue, and oval croutons fried in butter a golden brown and glazed. Pour some of the sauce reserved for the purpose round the base, and serve. Hashed Beef Plain Slice one pound of cold roast beef up in thin pieces, season with pepper and salt, and shake a little flour over it. Next chop a medium-sized onion, and put it into a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, and an equal quantity of mushroom catsup; boil these together for two minutes, and then add half a pint of stock or gravy; boil this down to half, its quantity, put in the beef, set the hash to cook five minutes longer, and then serve with sippets of toasted bread. Hashed Beef and Broiled Bones Slice the beef up as in the previous recipe, and set aside on a plate. Chop half a pound of bones into pieces about two inches long or square, having a little meat left on them; score them all over by making deep incisions across them, season with plenty of pepper and a little salt, and put on a plate. Slice two onions and fry them brown, then add three-quarters of a pint of brown sauce. Shake a tablespoonful of flour over the onions, stir over the fire for a minute, then add half a pint of good stock or gravy and aENTRIES OF BEEF 239 tablespoonful of mushroom catsup; stir the whole over the fire until reduced to two-thirds of the original quantity, and then pass through a fine strainer; mix this with the sliced beef, make the hash quite hot, dish up with the broiled bones (glazed) round it, and serve. Braised Beef a la Claremont This entree with the varieties mentioned below may be served when any braised beef remains from a previous day’s dinner. The beef must be cut in rather thin round or oval slices, placed in a stew-pan in neat order, and warmed with a gill of good stock; these must then be dished up in a circle, overlapping each other closely ; pour some Claremont sauce (see p. 15) over them, and serve. Note.—Slices of braised beef warmed and dished up, as in the previous recipe, may be greatly varied by being afterwards garnished with macaroni prepared with grated cheese, a little glaze and Tomato sauce, also with all sharp sauces, with purges of vegetables, and with vegetable garnishes. Bubble and Squeak Cut some slices (not too thin) of cold boiled round, or aitchbone, of salt beef; trim them neatly with an equal number of pieces of white fat, and set them aside on a plate. Boil a summer or savoy cabbage, remove the stalk, chop finely, and put into a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter and one ounce of glaze; season with pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry the slices of beef in a frying-pan, commencing with the pieces of fat; stir the cabbage on the fire until quite hot, and then pile it up in the centre of the' dish; place the slices of beef and the pieces of fat round it, pour a little thin brown sauce over the whole, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek with Puree of Green Peas Bone an ox-cheek, and steep it in cold water for two hours; then parboil it in water for five minutes, plunge again in cold water, drain, and trim it, break up the bones, and put them at the bottom of an oval stew-pan, place the cheek upon them, and garnish with a carrot, onion, half a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, six cloves, a blade of mace, and twelve peppercorns; moisten with two quarts of stock or water (if the latter, add some salt); set the ox-cheek to simmer very gently by the side of the fire for about two hours; when done, take it up carefully, and put it in press between two dishes. Half the stock may be used for preparing some brown sauce with, and the remainder boiled down to half-glaze. Cut the ox-cheek up into neat pieces of equal size, shape them either round, square, oblong, or oval; trim them neatly; and place them in a stew-pan with the half-glaze. Ten minutes before sending to table put the ox-cheek, covered with the lid, to simmer gently on the fire until warmed through, and then set them to boil quickly over a brisk fire for three minutes; roll them in their glaze, and dish them up in a circle, closely overlapping each other; fill the centre of the entree with some thick pur^e of green peas (see p. 26), pour a little brown sauce round the base, and serve.<240 THE MODERN COOK Braised Ox=Cheek a la Flamande This is prepared, cut, and dished up as the foregoing; fill the centre with a garnish of Brussels sprouts, pour a little thin Espagnole sauce round the entree, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek a la Bretonne Prepare and dish up the pieces of ox-cheek as directed in the foregoing recipes; just before sending to table, fill the centre with some puree of potatoes (see p. 28), pour some Bretonne sauce over the pieces of ox-cheek, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek a la Proven?ale This when dished up must be garnished round the base with a border of ripe tomatoes prepared au gratin (see p. 344); fill the centre of the entree with some Provencale sauce (see p. 8), and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek with Cabbage When the ox-cheek is prepared for braising, as directed on p. 239, about four ounces of German sausage must be added, also four ounces of streaky bacon, and a savoy cabbage, previously cut in halves, parboiled in water, the stalk removed, and afterwards tied up with string. The stew-pan must be covered with a round buttered paper, and set to braise gently for about two hours; as soon as it is done, the ox-cheek should be put in press, and when cold cut into slices and placed in a stew-pan with some half-glaze with the bacon and sausage. The cabbage must be drained in a colander, and then pressed, and afterwards cut out in cork-shaped pieces. The slices of ox-cheek should be dished up in a close circle, alternately placing a slice of ox-cheek with the bacon and sausage, and so on until the whole is used up. Next place the cabbage round in a neat border, pour some Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. Braised Ox=Cheek a la Jardiniere Braise, cut up, and dish the ox-cheek as directed in the former recipe; fill the centre of the entree with a garnish of vegetables h la Jardiniere (see p. 167), pour some half-glaze or thin Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve Cannelons of Ox=Palates with Poivrade Sauce Prepare and braise three or four ox-palates, and put them in press, as directed (on p. 219), between two dishes until cold. The ox-palates must then be trimmed and split in halves lengthwise; each of these must be again divided in two crosswise; the pieces thus produced should be laid upon a dish, and covered on one side only with some thick cold d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5). The cannelons must then be rolled up in the form of a cartridge, and each dipped in beaten egg (seasoned with a little salt) and after- wards bread-crumbed. Just before sending to table, the cannelons should be fried in some clean hot fat; they must be piled up in the241 ENTREES OF BEEF dish, in a pyramidal form, with green fried parsley in the centre, round the base, and on the top. Send some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) to table in a boat. Note.—Instead of bread-crumbing the cannelons, they may be dipped in coating batter, and then fried. Paupiettes of Ox=Palates a la Financiere Braise and cut up three or four ox-palates as in the previous recipe; trim the pieces thus produced into oblong slices, and spread upon each a thin layer of quenelle force-meat of veal or poultry, in which some fine herbs have been mixed. The ox-palates should then be rolled firmly in the form of cartridges, and kept in the cool until wanted. Half an hour before dinner-time set the paupiettes on the fire, at the same time adding to them about a pint of stock or consomme; as soon as they begin to boil, put the lid on, and set them to simmer gently by the side of the fire for twenty minutes. The paupiettes must be then drained, the ends of each neatly cut off, then placed in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze, and again set on the fire to be rolled in this as it boils down; finally, they should be dished up in a pyramidal or conical form, and a Financiere ragout (see p. 44) poured over the entree, and sent to table. Ox= Palates a la Tortue Braise the ox-palates as before directed, put them in press, and when cold stamp them out in rounds, with a circular tin cutter two inches in diameter, and put them in a small deep stew-pan with a little of the sauce intended for the entree. Twenty minutes before sending to table make the rounds quite hot, and place them in neat order in, and round, the base of an ornamental croustade of fried bread, previously prepared for the purpose, and stuck to the centre of the dish, with a little paste made of flour and white of egg; pour a Ragofit a la Tortue (see p. 44) tastefully about the entree, and serve. Curry of Ox=Palates Prepare some rounds of ox-palates, as in the foregoing recipe, and mix them in half a pint of good Curry sauce (see p. 12). Just before sending to table make the curry quite hot, and dish up with boiled rice pressed into a border-mould, and then turned out on a dish. The above is the simplest manner of serving this entree, but it looks much better when dressed with an ornamental rice border, in which case some plain boiled Patna rice must be served separately. Attereaux of Ox= Palates a la d’Uxelles Braise four ox-palates; when done, put them in press between two dishes; as soon as they are cold trim both sides, cut them into inch-square pieces, and place these on a dish; pour some reduced d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5) over the pieces, and when the sauce has become set, run the pieces upon small silver skewers; gather R242 THE MODERN COOK the sauce from the dish with a knife, and spread it upon the attereaux to give them a square, smooth form. They must then be rolled in bread-crumbs, afterwards dipped in beaten eggs, and again bread-crumbed. Half an hour before sending to table, fry the attereaux in clean hot fat; dish up neatly with fried parsley placed in the centre, and serve. Ox=Palates in Cases with Fine Herbs Prepare some small circular scallops of ox-palates, put them into a stew-pan ; add nearly half a pint of reduced Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5), mix, and fill some small square or plaited circular paper cases, previously oiled and baked in the oven for five minutes; cover with a layer of browned bread-crumbs, and place upon a baking-sheet covered with clean paper. About half an hour before sending to table put these cases in the oven to bake, or rather warm through, and then dish up on a folded napkin, with fried parsley round the base of the entree, and serve. Beef Marrow a la Ravigote Procure about four ounces of beef marrow, steep in water for a couple of hours, wash thoroughly, and then carefully remove the membranous covering, and change the water. Next slice up an onion and a small carrot very finely, and put into a stew-pan with a pint of hot water, mignonette pepper, and salt, a little thyme and bay leaf, three cloves and a blade of mace, and a tablespoonful of vinegar; boil the liquor on the fire, drop in the pieces of marrow and allow them to boil gently for ten minutes; then set aside to cool. Drain, and then place them in a basin with a few sprigs of parsley, a sliced shalot, some mignonette pepper, and salt, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and one of vinegar. The marrow must be left to steep in this pickle till within about ten minutes of dinner-time, when they must be drained and dipped in batter, and fried in clean hot fat. Dish up with fried parsley, and send some Ravigote sauce in a boat, to be handed round. To save trouble, the marrow when fried may be dished up without a napkin or fried parsley, and the sauce poured under them. But in this case, unless they are eaten as soon as dished up, the vapour arising from the sauce destroys much of their crispness. Note.—Beef marrow, when fried according to the foregoing direc- tions, may also be served with any of the following sauces, viz.: Piquante, Poivrade, Italian, Tomato, etc. Beef Marrow in Cases with Fine Herbs Prepare some marrow according to the directions contained in the previous recipe. Drain, cut into inch lengths, and place in a small stew-pan with about half a pint of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5); mix together, and put into small square or round paper cases, the surfaces of which are strewn with fried bread-crumbs, and then placed upon a clean baking-sheet. About twenty minutes before sending to243 ENTREES OF BEEF table put the cases in the oven to get thoroughly wanned; dish up neatly in a pyramidal form, and serve some Fine Herbs or Brown Italian sauce separately in a boat. Croustades or Patties of Beef Marrow In this case, the beef marrow must be prepared according to the first part of the directions for dressing them a la Ravigote ; they must then be cut into half-inch lengths, and placed in a small stew-pan, with about half their quantity of prepared mushrooms; to this may be added some finished Espagnole sauce, a little cayenne and lemon juice. Warm the whole together on the fire, and fill the croustades or patties with it. Ox=Tongue with Spinach Soak a pickled tongue for two hours, run an iron skewer through it from the root to the pointed end, tie a piece of string on one end of the skewer, and fasten it at the other, so as to keep it in shape. The tongue should then be put on the fire in enough cold water to cover, and kept gently boiling for about three hours, when it must be taken up, the outer skin removed, and placed in the larder to cool. It should then be neatly trimmed, wrapped in a piece of buttered paper, and put into an oval stew-pan, with a little ordinary stock. Three-quarters of an hour before sending to table, put the tongue in the oven, or over a slow fire, to get warmed through; then glaze it, and dish it up with some prepared spinach (see p. 27) round, pour a little Espagnole sauce, or some half-glaze round the base, and serve. Ox=Tongue with Brussels Sprouts This is prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, except that Brussels sprouts (see p. 30) must be substituted for spinach. Ox=Tongue a la Macedoine Prepare the tongue as in the foregoing recipes, and when about to send to table, glaze and dish up with a white Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) placed neatly round it, and serve. Ox=Tongue a la Jardiniere The tongue, when dished up, must be garnished with groups of cooked glazed carrots and turnips, cut in small fancy shapes ; these must be alternated with similar groups of cooked buds of cauli- flowers, heads of asparagus peas, or French beans cut in the form of diamonds. Pour some half-glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base, and send to table. Braised Ox=Tongue k I’AIlemande Scald a fresh ox-tongue in boiling water upon the fire for about ten minutes; then plunge in cold water, and remove the root and any superfluous fat. Place the tongue in an oval stew-pan with a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, a bouquet garni, four cloves, and a blade of mace; add sufficient good stock to cover the whole, andTHE MODERN COOK 244 set it to braise gently for two hours and a half upon a slow fire. When the tongue is done, take out, trim, and put into a stew-pan with its own liquor, free from fat, strained through a sieve, and boiled down to half its quantity. About half an hour before sending to table, set the tongue on a very slow fire to simmer until warmed through; roll in its glaze, dish up with some Victoria Cherry sauce (see p. 16) under it, garnish round with a border of potato quenelles (see p. 80), and serve. Ox=Tongue with Sauerkraut For this purpose choose a smoked tongue, and let it soak in cold water for about twelve hours previous to cooking it. The tongue must then be parboiled for half an hour, and plunged in cold water; remove the root, and truss with a skewer and some string to keep it in shape; next place it in an oval stew-pan with half a pound of sauerkraut (previously well washed in several waters), a carrot, an onion, stuck with six cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with sufficient ordinary stock to cover the whole; place a well-buttered paper on the top, and cover; then leave to braise very gently on a slow fire for about three hours. When the tongue is done, take up on a dish, trim, and put in a small oval stew-pan with a little good stock, to be kept hot by the side of the fire. Meanwhile remove the carrot, onion, and bunch of herbs from the sauerkraut, and press it to absorb all the fat. Then glaze the tongue and place it in a dish, garnish neatly round with the sauerkraut, pour some Poivrade sauce over the whole, and serve. Note.—Reindeer tongues may be cooked in the same manner as the foregoing; they must, however, be soaked in cold water for four-and-twenty hours previous to being cooked. ENTREES OF MUTTON Mutton Cutlets Plain Choose the best end of a neck of mutton, saw off as much of the rib-bones as may be necessary in order to leave the cutlet-bones not more than three inches long; the spine-bone must also be removed with the saw, without damaging the fillet. Next cut the neck of mutton thus trimmed into as many cutlets as there are bones; detach the meat from the upper part of each bone, about three-quarters of an inch, then dip them in water and flatten them with a cutlet-bat, trim away the sinewy part and any superfluous fat. The cutlets must then be seasoned with pepper and salt, brushed over with clarified butter, and nicely broiled, over or before a clear fire. When done, dish up neatly, and serve with plain brown gravy under them. Cutlets prepared in this way may also be served with either of the following sauces: Poor Man’s, Piquante, Italian, Tomato, Provengale, Poivrade, Shalot, Gravy.245 ENTREES OF MUTTON Mutton Cutlets a la Minute Trim six or eight cutlets as above, then season with pepper and salt, and place them in a stew-pan with about two ounces of clarified butter. The cutlets must be fried over a rather brisk fire a brown colour. Pour off the fat, and add half a pint of Espagnole sauce, a piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon; set the cutlets again on the fire to simmer gently for two minutes, dish up, and pour the sauce over them. The centre of this entree may be filled with mashed potatoes, mashed turnips, spinach, potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel, etc. Mutton Cutlets a la Maintenon These are prepared, in the first instance, according to the former part of the directions for cutlets h la Minute; season with pepper and salt, add a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, the same quantity of parsley, and three shalots also chopped. Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, pour off the fat, and add half a pint of brown sauce, a very little grated nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon; allow the whole to simmer together on the fire for five minutes, and then put in the larder to cool. Meanwhile take as many sheets of large-sized notepaper as there are cutlets, cut each somewhat in the form of a heart, and let them be oiled. Next place a cutlet with an equal proportion of the sauce in one of these papers, and with the fore- finger and thumb of the right hand twist the edges of the paper tightly under into very close folds, and repeat this with the remainder. A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven in a stew-pan to get warm through; then with a heated iron skewer, mark the papers so as to make it appear that they have been broiled; dish up on a napkin with fried parsley in the centre, and send some Brown Italian or Fine Herbs sauce in a boat. Mutton Cutlets a la Bourguignote Trim the cutlets, and arrange them in circular order in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter. Then fry them quickly on a brisk fire to brown on both sides, and before they are quite done pour off all the fat; add a glass of red wine (port or claret), about one dozen prepared mushrooms, and the same quantity of small button-onions (previously simmered in a little butter over a slow fire until nearly done); season with a pinch of mignonette pepper and a little salt, some grated nutmeg and a teaspoonful of castor sugar; set the whole to boil on the fire for two minutes, and then add half a pint of brown sauce ; cover the cutlets and allow to simmer very gently on a slow fire for twenty minutes, by which time they will be done, and the sauce sufficiently reduced. The cutlets must then be dished up closely in a circle ; add half a glass of red wine, boil the whole together for a minute, and garnish the centre of the entree with the mushrooms, etc., pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 246 Mutton Cutlets with Endive Puree These are prepared and finished in the same manner as the cutlets a la Minute ; and when they are dished up, the centre of the entree must be filled with a puree of endive (see p. 28). Note.—Cutlets dressed in this way may be served with purees of vegetables of all sorts. Mutton Cutlets a la Nivernaise Trim and prepare the cutlets as in the foregoing recipes, and when they have been fried brown, pour off the fat and add a garnish of carrots and turnips a la Nivernaise (see p. 33) ; allow the whole to simmer gently on a slow fire for a quarter of an hour, dish up the cutlets and fill the centre with vegetables, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. Another Method The cutlets, when fried, may be glazed, then dished up, and the garnish a la Nivernaise placed in the centre. The advantage of the first method is that the cutlets partake of the flavour of the vegetables by simmering with them. Mutton Cutlets with New Potatoes These are prepared in the same way as cutlets a la Minute, and when dished up, must be garnished with new potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel (see p. 353). Mutton cutlets prepared in the same manner may be garnished with any of the following vegetable garnishes, viz. Jardiniere, Macedoine, asparagus peas, stewed peas, Brussels sprouts, etc. Breaded Mutton Cutlets with Shalot Gravy Trim the cutlets in the usual manner, and season them with pepper and salt; then egg them slightly over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg; sprinkle each cutlet with some fine bread- crumbs ; then dip them separately in some clarified butter, and bread-crumb them over once more ; flatten them into shape with the blade of a knife, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire to a light-brown colour; then glaze and dish up, and serve with plain or shalot gravy. These cutlets may also be served with any of the sauces directed to be used for plain broiled cutlets. Mutton Cutlets with Mushroom Puree Bread-crumb the cutlets as in the foregoing recipe; then place them in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter, fry over a brisk fire a golden colour, and when done remove and glaze them ; dish up, fill the centre with a white puree of mushrooms (see p. 30), pour some half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Mutton Cutlets with Cucumber Prepare these in the same way as the foregoing, and garnish them, when dished up, with some cut slices of cucumbers (see p. 33).ENTRIES OF MUTTON 247 Mutton Cutlets a la Milanaise In this case the bread-crumbs used for crumbing the cutlets must be mixed with two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese; in other respects they are to be egged and bread-crumbed as before. When about to send to table the cutlets should be fried a golden colour, glazed, and dished up; and the centre garnished with some macaroni, finished with grated Parmesan cheese, and a tablespoonful of Bechamel, or any other white sauce ; pour some Proven^ale sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Bretonne These are prepared and finished in the same way as cutlets gar- nished with a puree of mushrooms, with this exception, that the centre must be filled with small potatoes previously scooped in the form of olives, and fried in butter a golden colour; pour some Bretonne sauce under the cutlets, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a la Macedoine Prepare these in the same way as the previous recipe, and when they are dished up, garnish the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35); pour some half-glaze round the base of the entrde, and serve. Mutton Cutlets a l’lndienne Bread-crumb, fry, glaze, and dish up the cutlets; then garnish the centre with some plain boiled rice well drained; pour some Mango sauce over the cutlets, and serve. The Mango sauce here alluded to is thus made:—Split a fine mango, and let the inside be kept back in a small stew-pan; cut the outside part into narrow strips, and again mince these into shreds, or thin slices, and place them in the stew-pan ; add half a pint of Espagnole sauce, boil the whole together for five minutes, and serve. Mutton Cutlets with Puree of Chestnuts These, when dished up, should be garnished with a puree of chestnuts (see p. 28), and some thin Espagnole poured round them, then serve. Note.—Bread-crumbed cutlets may be served with every sort of vegetable garnish described in this work, and with all the sauces directed to be served with plain cutlets. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Soubise Trim the best end of a neck of mutton in the way described for plain cutlets; the neck must then be cut up into thick cutlets, and placed on a dish without being further trimmed. Next cut four ounces of fat bacon into narrow strips, about the sixth of an inch square, and an inch and a half long, and with these the cutlets should be larded in the following manner:—Take a medium-sized larding-needle, and run it half through the lean of the cutlet; then place a strip of bacon in the open end, and draw the larding-pin248 THE MODERN COOK through, leaving the bacon in the cutlet; repeat this until the cutlet has been studded with eight strips of bacon, and proceed in the same manner with the remainder. Put some of the trimmings at the bottom of a large stew-pan, or fricandeau pan, and place the cutlets upon them in circular order, with the bone-end pointing to the centre ; cover them with the remainder of the trimmings, and garnish with a sliced carrot, a large onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, and a stick of celery; season with a dozen peppercorns and a blade of mace, moisten with sufficient fresh stock to cover the whole; place a buttered paper on this, put on the lid, and set the cutlets to braise very gently on a slow fire, or in the oven, for about one hour and a half; when they are nearly tender enough, draw the pan off the fire, and allow them to get partially cold in their own liquor. The cutlets must then be carefully taken out, one at a time, with a small slice or skimmer, and placed in rows on a large earthenware dish • when the whole are thus removed, another dish must be placed upon these to press them slightly, in order to give them an even surface. As soon as they have become firm by getting quite cold, trim them neatly with a sharp knife by paring off the surface of each cutlet (without waste), so as to show the bacon inserted in the lean; put them into a deep stew-pan with some half-glaze, made with the liquor they have been braised in, which must be strained, the fat removed, clarified, and afterwards boiled down for the purpose. A quarter of an hour before sending to table, put the cutlets over a good fire to warm, allow them to boil quickly for five minutes, then turn the stew-pan about care- fully, so as to glaze them all over, and dish them up in a close circle; fill the centre with some Soubise sauce or puree (seep. 29), pour the remainder of the half-glaze round the base of the entree, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Lyonnaise Prepare, finish, and dish up the cutlets, as in the previous recipe; then fill the centre with some Lyonnaise sauce, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets with Artichoke Puree These are prepared exactly as for Soubise, and when dished up should be garnished with a puree of artichokes (see p. 29); pour a little Bechamel sauce, or some half-glaze round their base, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Chipolata Prepare and dish up these in the same manner as the previous recipe, garnish them with a Chipolata ragout (see p. 44), and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Pompadour These must be prepared, in the first instance, practically the same as directed for Soubise cutlets, except that, instead of the larding, they must be studded with red tongue and black truffles. When the cutlets, after being braised, have been trimmed, mask each of them with a coating of reduced Soubise sauce; and when this has become firmly set, by cooling on the cutlets, dip them separately in beaten egg, and afterwards bread-crumb them; flatten the bread-crumbs on249 ENTRIES OF MUTTON smoothly with the blade of a knife, put the cutlets carefully away on a dish in a cool place until within twenty minutes of dinner-time. The cutlets must then be placed in rows in a frying-basket; when the fat is sufficiently hot dip the cutlets in it, and fry a deep yellow colour; then drain on a paper, in order to absorb all the grease, and dish up in a close circle upon a vegetable border. Fill the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35), pour some half-glaze round the base, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Provengale Braise and trim the cutlets as in the previous recipe; except that in the present instance the cutlets must be left plain, omitting altogether the larding or studding. While the cutlets are being braised, prepare the following sauce :—Cut a large Spanish onion into very small dice, parboil in water, drain, and then place in a small stew- pan, with one ounce of fresh butter, a teaspoonful of glaze, a little mignonette pepper, salt, and some grated nutmeg; cover the stew-pan, and place the onion on a very slow fire, to be thoroughly stewed, without browning. Next add a gill of white sauce, a little grated garlic on the point of a knife, and stir the whole on the fire until reduced to a paste; then add the yolk of an egg and a little lemon juice; mix well together, and use this preparation to cover the surface of one side only of the cutlets; shake a coating of bread- crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, over this, and then place the cutlets in a stew-pan containing a little half-glaze. About twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to be warmed through, pass the red-hot salamander over them, to give them a deep golden colour, toss them in thin glaze, and dish them up; then pour some Provengale sauce under them, and serve. Braised Mutton Cutlets a la Russe Cut six or eight thick cutlets, as directed in the first recipe of this section ; insert strips of lean ham through the lean part, in a circular form; prepare them for braising in the usual way, and in addition to the usual vegetables and seasoning, add a clove of garlic and a couple of capsicums; moisten with a glass of Madeira and a pint of good stock; set the cutlets to braise for an hour and a half on a very slow fire, and when nearly done remove from the fire, that they may partially cool in their own liquor; and then put them in press between two dishes. When the cutlets are cold, trim them neatly, and cover one side only with a coating of the following preparation :—Clean a large stick of horse-radish, and grate finely; put this into a small stew-pan with a small pat of butter, two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar, a pinch of mignonette pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar; put the lid on, and set the whole to stew very gently for twenty minutes on a very slow fire; then add a gill of Velout<* sauce, boil the whole well together for ten minutes, mix with this sauce the yolk of an egg and a small piece of glaze, and use this preparation as directed above. Next mask the coated side of the cutlets with a paste-brushTHE MODERN COOK 2 5° dipped in some white of egg that has been beaten up, and sprinkle this surface over with very fine fried bread-crumbs; place the cutlets in neat order in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze, and a quarter of an hour before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed through, without allowing them to brown any further; dish them up with a very small paper ruffle on the bone of each cutlet, pour some half-glaze (made with their own liquor) under them, and serve. Note.—Mutton cutlets, when braised according to any of the fore- going directions, may be served with all sorts of dressed vegetables, such as stewed peas, asparagus peas, French beans, broad beans, Macedoine of vegetables, Jardiniere, braised lettuces, etc., and also with any kind of puree of vegetables; for making which, see those recipes. Scallops of Mutton with Fine Herbs Bone three to four pounds of loin of mutton, and with a sharp knife pare off the sinewy skin which lies beneath the fat of the upper and under fillets. Next, cut these fillets into neatly trimmed scallops and place them in circular order in a stew-pan with two ounces of clarified butter; season with pepper and salt, and fry over a brisk fire until browned on both sides; then pour off the fat, and add one pint of Fine Herbs sauce; allow the whole to simmer together over the fire for three minutes, and then dish up the scallops, either in a pyramidal form, in a close circle, or else on an ornamental border of potato or rice. These scallops may also be garnished with a border of croquettes of mutton, mushrooms, potatoes, or rice. Note.—The garnishes here alluded to will serve for mutton scallops generally. 'Scallops of Mutton a la Claremont Prepare the scallops as in the foregoing recipe, fry them brown, pour off all the fat, and add three-quarters of a pint of Claremont sauce; set the whole to simmer briskly on the fire for three minutes, and serve. Scallops of Mutton with Oysters These are prepared according to the foregoing directions, and when the fat has been poured off, add as much brown Oyster sauce as will suffice for the entree, simmer the whole together over the fire for three minutes, and serve. Scallops of Mutton a l’lndienne Prepare the scallops in the usual manner, fry them brown, pour off the fat, add half to three-quarters of a pint of Curry sauce and a minced mango; simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, and send to table with some plain boiled rice served separately. Scallops of Mutton with Olives Farcies These are prepared in the same way as the foregoing, and when they have been fried and the fat poured off, add two dozen olives farcies, half a pint of Espagnole sauce, a little cayenne and lemonENTREES OF MUTTON 25x juice, and a small piece of glaze ; toss the whole together, allow the scallops to simmer briskly on the fire for three minutes, and then serve. Scallops of Mutton with Mushrooms and Truffles Saute or fry the scallops brown, then pour off the fat and add a small glass of Madeira, a dozen button-mushrooms, one ounce of truffles cut into pieces, a little cayenne, and a small piece of glaze; toss the whole together over the fire until mixed, and then add half a pint of finished Espagnole sauce, and a squeeze of lemon juice; set the scallops to simmer on the fire for three minutes, and serve. Carbonade of Mutton a la Richelieu Bone three or four pounds of loin of mutton, leaving the small fillets adhering; remove all the inside fat, season with pepper and salt, cut off the loose ends and flaps, and then roll up tight, keeping the fillet in the centre; sew up closely with string and a small trussing-needle, and tie round with string to preserve the shape. Next strew the trimmings over the bottom of an oval braising-pan, place the carbonade upon these, garnish with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery, and a bouquet garni; moisten with sufficient stock to cover the whole. Braise the carbonade on a slow fire for about two hours, and allow it partially to cool in its own liquor; it must then be put in press between two dishes, taking care that the sewn-up part is placed undermost.. When cold, trim neatly in the form of an oblong cushion, remember- ing that nearly the whole of the fat which covers it must be left on : this, however, must be pared smooth. Strain the liquor, remove the fat, clarify in the usual way, and then boil down to half-glaze, half of which is to be put with the carbonade in a covered fricandeau pan to warm it in; the remainder being used to work the sauce with. Half an hour before sending to table put the carbonade in the oven to be warmed through; then take the lid off, allow the surface to dry, and baste frequently with its own glaze until it assumes a bright shiny surface; it must then be placed on a dish, garnished with potatoes cut in the form of olives and fried in clarified butter. Carbonade of Mutton a la Dauphinoise Bone three or four pounds of loin of mutton, remove all the inside fat and the small fillets ; season with pepper and salt, and spread some highly-seasoned veal force-meat on the inside; it must then be rolled, sewn up, and afterwards corded round with string to make it retain its shape. Braise the carbonade in the same way as in the previous recipe, and when done put in press, and cut into pieces in the form of a point; trim these neatly, put them on a dish, and then cover them over with a thin coating of d’Uxelles sauce. When the sauce is cold and firmly set dip each piece separately in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them. About twenty minutes before sending to table, place the carbonade in a frying-basket and fry in252 THE MODERN COOK some clean hot fat to a light-brown colour; drain and dish up in a circular form, with the pointed ends placed towards the centre, so as to make them fit in with each other. Fill the centre with a group of small tomatoes “au gratin’’ (see p. 344), and place a border of these round the base; pour some Provengale under the carbonades, and serve. Carbonades of Mutton a la Flamande Prepare the loin as before; and when sufficiently cold cut into pieces in the form of pointed scallops, trim them smoothly and neatly, and then place them in a deep stew-pan with some half-glaze made from their own liquor. Half an hour before sending to table, put them in the oven to be warmed and glazed as before directed; dish up as in the preceding recipe, fill the centre with some prepared Brussels sprouts (see p. 30), and garnish the base of the entree with a Jardinihre (see p. 167); pour some bright thin Espagnole sauce under the entree, and serve. Note.—Carbonades, prepared and trimmed as directed (on p. 251), may also be served with every sort of vegetable garnish, or puree of vegetables, described in these recipes. Fillets of Mutton with Chevreuil Sauce Remove the fillets from three or four loins of best Southdown mutton, pare off all the sinewy skin that lies beneath the fat; trim these and lard them closely with strips of fat bacon in the usual way. The fillets must then be steeped in a cold marinade (see p. 57) for about forty-eight hours; after which drain them to absorb any unnecessary moisture. Next place the fillets in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, and turn them round in a semicircular form ; moisten with a little mirepoix (see p. 57) or a glass of sherry; cover with a buttered paper and set in the oven to simmer for about twenty minutes; they must then be glazed, trimmed neatly round the ends, and dished up in a close circle, overlapping each other; fill the centre with fried potatoes cut in the form of olives; pour some Poivrade sauce under the fillets, and serve. Note.—Fillets of mutton prepared as the foregoing may also be garnished with quenelles of potatoes, with Chevreuil sauce, Victoria Cherry sauce, Tomato, Piquante, Gherkin, or Provengale sauce. Haricot of Mutton a la Nivernaise Cut three pounds of a neck of mutton into untrimmed cutlets, pare off any superfluous fat, put them into a large stew-pan with two ounces of butter, and fry them over a brisk fire until they become brown; then pour off the greater portion of the fat, and shake in a dessertspoonful of flour, stir the whole over the fire for about five minutes, moisten with a quart of stock, and stir the haricot on the fire till it boils. Meanwhile prepare two carrots and two turnips, cut in the form of small pears, olives, half-moons, or any other fancy shape, and throw these into the haricot; eight to ten small onions253 ENTRIES OF MUTTON may also be added; season with a bunch of herbs and some mignonette pepper. Keep the haricot gently boiling by the side of the fire for about one hour and a half; skim off all the fat, remove the herbs, place the cutlets and vegetables in another stew-pan, and after having boiled the sauce down (if necessary), pass it through a strainer upon the cutlets. When about to send to table warm the haricot, dish the cutlets in the usual manner, fill the centre with the vegetables, pour the sauce over all, and serve. Note.—Breasts of mutton with the superfluous fat removed, and cut into small square pieces, make a very good haricot or stew. The foregoing may be varied by substituting green peas, young carrots, turnips, or new potatoes for the carrots and turnips. Sheep’s=Tongues Sheep’s-tongues should first be pickled in the manner directed for briskets of beef, etc. ; for the preparation of which see p. 170. Sheep’s=Tongues a l’Ecarlate with Spinach Prepare three or four tongues, and braise in some wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), or ordinary stock garnished with the usual vegetables, etc. : after about three-quarters of an hour’s gentle boiling they will be done: they must then be placed upon a dish on their sides, and another dish with a weight in it should be laid upon them to press them evenly. When the tongues are cold, trim neatly, remove the skins, and place them in a deep stew-pan with some half-glaze, and about twenty minutes before sending to table put them in the oven to warm through, covered with a circular piece of buttered paper to prevent their being dried up; roll them in their glaze, dish up in the same manner as cutlets, fill the centre with spinach (see p. 27), mix a tablespoonful of Espagnole with the remainder of their glaze, pour it round the tongues, and serve. Sheep’s=Tongues a la Maintenon These must first be braised, and when done, put in press between two dishes, and afterwards neatly trimmed. The tongues must then be finished in every respect the same as mutton cutlets it la Maintenon (see p. 245). Sheep’s=Tongues a la Napolitaine Braise and trim three or more tongues as above, cover them all over with a thin coating of d’Uxelles sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, dip each tongue in some beaten egg, and roll it in bread-crumbs; flatten them smoothly with the blade of a knife, and then place them on a dish in the larder until within about twenty minutes of dinner-time. The tongues must then be fried a light-brown colour in clean hot fat, then drained and dished up in the form of a close circle, the centre of which must be filled with macaroni dressed with cheese and a little Bechamel sauce; pour some Neapolitan sauce under them, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 254 Sheep’s=Tong;ues with Gherkin Sauce Prepare, finish, and dish up the tongues according to the directions in the first recipe of this series, pour some gherkin sauce in the centre of the entree, and serve. Note.—Sheep’s-tongues prepared after the foregoing directions may be served with every kind of brown sauce or ragout; and also with any of the vegetable garnishes or purees described in these recipes. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Brochette Slit three or more kidneys lengthwise without cutting through the sinew; remove the thin skin which covers them, and place them on a small dish ; season with pepper and salt and a tablespoonful of salad oil, and allow them to steep in this seasoning until broiled. They must then be run on a small silver or any other kind of skewer (two or three on each), and placed upon a gridiron over a clear fire to be broiled, with the open side downwards; when brown, they must be turned up, as, from the heat of the fire, their sides become contracted, which causes them to form a sort of cup to hold the gravy in when the kidneys are done; care must be taken not to spill this gravy in dishing them up; fill each with a small piece of cold Maitre d’Hotel butter (see p. n), pour a little half-glaze under them, and send to table quite hot. Broiled kidneys may also be served with anchovy butter, plain gravy, or a pat of fresh butter, and a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce. Sheep’s Kidneys a l’Epicurienne Split the kidneys as before directed, season with pepper and salt, dip in clarified butter, and roll in bread-crumbs; place on the skewers, and broil on both sides; when done, dish up with a small piece of Epicurean butter (see p. 43) in each, the juice of a lemon and a little half-glaze under them, and serve quite hot. Sheep’s Kidneys with Fine Herbs Prepare some Fine Herbs sauce, slit the kidneys lengthwise, quite through; remove the skin, and then slice them into thin pieces. Place a frying-pan with one ounce of butter in it on a brisk fire; fry the kidneys lightly, then remove and add a glass of sherry or Madeira; let this boil till reduced, then pour in the sauce prepared for the purpose; let the whole simmer together on the stove for three minutes ; then add the kidneys, reheat, dish up with some pastry fleurons round them, and serve. Another Method Cut the kidneys in thin slices, season with pepper and salt, and fry them brown in a little butter; then throw in a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, a teaspoonful of parsley, and a shalot, also chopped ; after allowing the whole to fry a few minutes longer, shake in a teaspoonful of flour, mix together, and moisten with a glass ofENTREES OF VEAL 255 sherry ; let this boil for two minutes, then add two tablespoonfuls of brown gravy or stock ; allow the whole to simmer on the fire for five minutes, add a little lemon juice, and serve. Sheep’s Kidneys a la Claremont Slice up and fry the kidneys as directed for those dressed with fine herbs, and when browned add some Claremont sauce ; simmer the whole together for three minutes, and serve with a border of potato croquettes. Sheep’s=Head a la Gallimaufre Procure the head and pluck of a fresh-killed sheep, split the head into halves, remove the brains, steep the whole in water overnight, and wash them thoroughly. Next place the head, heart, and liver in a stew-pan with carrot, onion, bouquet garni, two blades of mace, six or eight cloves, and a teaspoonful of peppercorns; moisten with sufficient stock or water (if the latter be used salt must be added) to nearly cover the head ; cover the whole with buttered paper, and put the lid on; then set the stew-pan on a gentle fire to braise for about one hour and a half. When the head, etc., are done, take them up carefully on a dish, strain' the broth, and after having removed all the fat boil down one-half to thin glaze, and with the remainder make some brown sauce. The pieces of the head should be trimmed, seasoned with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and two shalots, then rubbed over with a paste-brush dipped in beaten egg, well covered with bread-crumbs, and placed on a dish in the larder. The liver and heart must be minced up fine, and when the sauce has been reduced to the usual consistency add it to the mince, together with a teaspoonful of fine herbs and a little lemon juice. When about to send to table make the mince quite hot, and turn it out on a dish, place the pieces of the head—previously broiled on both sides a light golden colour, and afterwards nicely glazed—upon the mince; pour some of the thin glaze round the entree, and serve. Note.—Sheep’s or lambs’ heads, when braised and bread-crumbed, may also be served with any kind of sharp Piquante or Poivrade sauce. ENTREES OF VEAL Fricandeau with Puree of Green Peas The fricandeau piece consists of that part of the leg of veal generally called the cushion, and is found on the inner side of the leg, lying immediately under the udder or fatty covering. This part must be carefully cut out by making a semicircular incision from one end round to the other, following the evident natural indication. Flatten the piece of veal slightly with a cutlet-bat, and then pare off the upper and under sinewy covering, leaving the surface perfectly smooth. The fricandeau must then be closely larded with strips of fat bacon in the usual manner. Next strew the bottom of a braising256 THE MODERN COOK or fricandeau pan with sliced carrot, onion, and celery, and a bunch of herbs ; cover these over with thin layers of fat bacon, and then place the fricandeau on the top of all; moisten with good stock in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, but not to cover it; place a round of paper well buttered on the top, and cover with the lid. The fricandeau should be allowed to braise very gently for about three hours, either in the oven or upon a very slow fire, during which time it must be frequently basted with its own liquor; when nearly done, the paper and the lid must be removed in order to enable the larding to dry, and it should be frequently basted with its own glaze to give it a bright, shiny appearance. Care must be taken to prevent the fricandeau from browning too much during the latter part of the process. Put some puree of green peas (see p. 26) in the centre of the dish, and with two forks carefully lift up the fricandeau, and place it upon the puree; pour a little half-glaze round the base, and serve. Note,—Fricandeaux prepared as above may also be served with every kind of vegetable puree or garnish described in these recipes. Fricandeau a la Macedoine This must be trimmed and larded as in the foregoing recipe; then an incision of about three inches in length should be cut through its entire thickness, and a round or oval paste-cutter placed in it to distend the hollow part, so as to give it the appearance of a circle. Prepare and braise the fricandeau as before, and when done place it on a dish upon a base of quenelle force-meat; fill the centre of the fricandeau with a well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35), pour some thin Espagnole round the entree, and serve. Noix1 of Veal a la Regence In this case the udder must be left adhering to the noix, or cushion of veal; it must be neatly trimmed, and the udder made to represent the form of a half-moon, with the lean part (within the inner semicircle) smoothly pared, and larded in the same manner as a fricandeau. This should then be placed in an oval stew-pan upon a bed of vegetables, covered with layers of fat bacon, moistened with a glass of sherry or Madeira, and about a pint of good stock. The udder must be covered with layers of fat bacon, to keep it white; then place a thickly-buttered paper over all, and cover with the lid. The noix must be very gently braised on a slow fire, or in the oven, and frequently basted with its own liquor, care being taken that the larding is nicely glazed; when nearly done the bacon must be removed from the udder, and the noix placed on a dish; garnish with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), incorporated with the glaze from the noix; stick three ornamental silver skewers, decorated with a large truffle, cock’s-comb, and a crayfish, in the udder; glaze the larding, and serve. 1 Noix is the French technical term for that part of a leg of Veal generally used for fricandeaux ; the English term for which is cushion, or Kernel of Veal.ENTRIES OF VEAL 257 Noix of Veal a la Toulouse Prepare this as in the foregoing recipe, and when dished up, garnish with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), using Allemande sauce (see p. 3) for the purpose; stick in three ornamental silver skewers, garnished with a large cock’s comb, a truffle, and a decorated quenelle; keep the udder white, glaze the larding, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a garnish of prepared vegetables a la Macedoine (see p. 35). Qrenadins of Veal with Spinach Trim a piece of cushion of veal, and cut into eight or ten fillets, beginning at the thick end; these must be flattened with a cutlet-bat dipped in water, and trimmed somewhat in the shape of fillets of fowl into oval shapes or rounds. They should then be closely larded with fat bacon, placed in neat order in a deep braising or fricandeau pan upon a bed of sliced vegetables covered over with layers of fat bacon; moisten with sufficient good stock just to reach up to the larding, place over a buttered paper, and cover with the lid. The grenadins will require to be braised for about one hour and a quarter, during which time they must be frequently basted; when nearly done, remove the paper and glaze them. Next drain, trim, and dish on a foundation of force-meat, in close order; fill the centre with some purde of spinach, pour some half-glaze round the base of the entree (made with the liquor from the grenadins), and serve. Note.—Grenadins may also be garnished with all kinds of ragouts and vegetable garnishes directed to be served with fricandeaux. Tendons of Veal with Green Peas Tendons of veal consist of that part which lies along the breast end of the ribs, forming an opaque gristly substance, which in the ox becomes bone. To extract these, an incision must be made right down the extreme edge of the breast of veal, without damaging the tendons, which should then be laid quite bare with the knife up to the commencement of the ribs, where they must be divided from them. The bony part, if any remain, must be pared away, and the tendons put to steep in water for an hour or so. They must then be tied up securely with string, and put to boil in the stock-pot for about four hours; or else placed in a stew-pan, with the usual vegetables and seasoning, and covered over with a buttered paper; moisten with enough stock or water to nearly cover, set them to braise on a slow fire for about four hours, and when done, put them in press between two dishes until they are cold. The tendons must then be cut slantwise into rather large pieces, measuring about two inches in diameter, and, when neatly trimmed, should be placed in a stew-pan with some half-glaze to warm them in. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the tendons in the oven or on the fire to simmer for ten minutes; then allow them to boil briskly so as to reduce the glaze, in which they must be gently rolled to make it sTHE MODERN COOK 258 adhere to them; dish up in a close circle upon a base of quenelle force-meat, fill the centre with cooked green peas, pour a little thin Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan, to be mixed with the glaze by boiling, use this to put round the entree, and serve. Note.—Tendons of veal prepared as above may also be served with every other kind of dressed vegetable garnishes, as well as with any kinds of purees of vegetables—for making which see those recipes. Tendons of Veal a la Villeroi Prepare, braise, and trim the tendons as directed in the fore- going recipe ; put them on a large dish, and mask them over with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce; when this has become firmly set, by cooling, dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, and fry a light colour in clean hot fat. Dish up in a close circle, overlapping each other, fill the centre with some puree of celery (see p. 27), pour some half-glaze or a little Supreme or Bechamel sauce round the entree, and send to table. Kernel of Veal with Artichoke Puree Veal kernels, of which allow eight to ten, are an oblong fatty substance containing a kind of small kidney of great delicacy, lying to the left of the blade-bone of the shoulder; these must be steeped in water for about half an hour, then parboiled for five minutes, soaked in cold water, drained upon a cloth, and put in press between two dishes. The kernels must be trimmed without waste, and placed in a deep, circular fricandeau or braising pan upon thin layers of white veal; then moisten with some white wine-mirepoix (see p. 57), and set them on a slow fire to braise very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, bearing in mind that the heat of the stove is to be so regulated as to cause the liquor to be reduced to one-half its original quantity. The kernels must then be removed into a stew-pan, and the half-glaze, when strained and cleared of all fat, poured upon them. Place on a brisk fire, and let them boil quickly till their moisture is reduced to a glaze; roll them gently in this, causing as much of it as possible to adhere to them, to give them a bright appearance. Then dish up in a close circle upon a base of force-meat of veal, with a crofiton of fried bread of the same shape between each kernel; fill the centre with some puree of arti- chokes (see p. 29), pour some half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Note.—Veal kernels prepared and dished up in this manner may be garnished with various kinds of dressed vegetables and purees. Kernel of Veal & la Duchesse When the kernels have been braised, pressed, and trimmed, as directed in the first part of the preceding recipe, let them be smoothly masked over with some well-reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3); and after the sauce has been allowed sufficient time to become firm by cooling, egg and bread-crumb the kernels, fry them259 ENTREES OF VEAL in hot fat a light colour, and, having dished them up as directed in the preceding recipe, garnish and sauce the entree in the same way. Kernel of Veal a la Talleyrand Parboil and trim the kernels, then place them in a fricandeau or braising pan between thin layers of fat -bacon; moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and braise them gently for three-quarters of an hour) when done, put on a dish to cool, and mask each of them all over with a coating of stiffly reduced Allemande sauce (see p.- 3); when the sauce has become firmly set, dip each in some beaten egg, and bread-crumb them carefully. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the kernels a golden colour, with clarified butter, in a deep stew-pan; drain, dish up in a circle, garnish the centre with a ragout composed of small slices of fat livers, truffles, mushrooms and cocks’ kernels, the whole of which must be tossed in good Allemande sauce; pour some thin Espagnole sauce (finished with some of the mirepoix) under the kernels, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Financiere Procure five or six bones of the best end of neck of veal, saw off the chine-bone and the upper end of the ribs, leaving the cutlet- bones about three inches long; then divide into cutlets, flatten these with a bat dipped in water, trim neatly, and lard the lean of the cutlets closely with bacon in the usual way. Next prepare the cutlets for braising in the same manner as directed for a fricandeau; about one hour and a quarter will suffice to braise them, when they must be nicely glazed, dished up with the larded part of the cutlet uppermost, and the centre of the entree filled with a rich Financifere ragout (see p. 44); pour some of the sauce round the cutlets, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Dreux These should be cut rather thicker than usual, but neither flattened nor trimmed; they must be interlarded or studded through the lean part with pieces of red tongue or ham, and black truffles about an inch long and a quarter of an inch in depth and thickness; these must be placed in a braising-pan, upon a bed of sliced vegetables covered with thin layers of fat bacon, some mace, four cloves, twelve peppercorns, and a bouquet garni in the centre, and the whole again covered with thin layers of bacon ; moisten with a glass of sherry and as much good stock as will cover the cutlets, and set them to braise on a slow fire for about one hour and a half, with the lid on. When done, allow them partially to cool in their own liquor. Then put them in press between two dishes, and when cold, let them be trimmed neatly, so as to show the truffle and tongue- studding. They should next be placed in a stew-pan with some half-glaze, made from their own liquor, and put away in the larder. Twenty minutes before sending to table, put the cutlets in the oven to warm through, then place them on the fire to glaze; dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some thin Espagnole sauce round, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 260 Veal Cutlets a la Perigord Trim four or five cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, then dip them in some whipped white of eggs, and afterwards in some black truffles chopped very finely; flatten the mixture with the blade of a knife, and place the cutlets in clarified butter in a stew-pan in circular order. Twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets on both sides until done through—taking care that the chopped truffles do not burn; when done, drain on a piece of paper, glaze, and dish up, fill the centre with slices of red tongue and truffles; pour some Perigueux sauce round, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Zingara Trim five or six cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and place in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. In another stew-pan, prepare a similar number of thin oval slices of raw ham. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets and the ham, glaze both, and dish up—alternately placing a cutlet and a piece of ham; fill the centre with shredded mushrooms and truffles, pour some thin Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan the cutlets have been fried in, to this add a little cayenne and lemon juice; simmer these together on the fire, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. Veal Cutlets a la Duchesse Prepare these in the same way as the cutlets a la Dreux; and when they have been trimmed, mask all over with a coating of Atelets sauce and bread-crumb them as for a la Villeroi. Fry the cutlets a bright-yellow colour in clarified butter, dish up, and fill the centre with circular slices of red tongue and button-mushrooms tossed in a little thick Allemande sauce (see p. 3); pour some Tomato sauce round the entree, and serve. Veal Cutlets in Papillotes Trim the cutlets neatly, season with pepper and salt, and fry them in a little clarified butter; when nearly done, add a table- spoonful of mushrooms, a little parsley, and three shalots, the whole chopped fine; fry these together over the fire for five minutes, and then add half a pint of Veloute, or any other white sauce, a little nutmeg, lemon juice, and a small piece of glaze; simmer the whole together over a gentle fire for a few minutes, and finish in the same way as directed for mutton cutlets k la Maintenon (see p. 245). Blanquette of Veal with Mushrooms Take two pounds of cushion or fillets of veal which must first be roasted, and when cold, cut into round thin pieces about an inch in diameter; to these add some button-mushrooms also cut into slices, and about half a pint of Allemande sauce. Just before sending it to table, warm the blanquette, and dish up with a border of croquettes of veal, of rice, or potatoes. This dish may be varied by substituting slices of truffles, cucumbers, or red tongue for the mushrooms.261 ENTREES OF VEAL Croquettes of Veal Cut half a pound of roasted veal into very small dice, or mince finely; add this to about four ounces of minced mushrooms, truffles, or red tongue. Next reduce by boiling three-quarters of a pint of Allemande, Bechamel, Veloute, or Supreme sauce; and when it has become rather stiff, throw in the mince; season with a little pepper and grated nutmeg; stir the whole well together, and then spread the preparation on a dish, about an inch thick; smooth over with the blade of a knife, cover with buttered paper, and put into the larder to cool. It must then be divided into about ten to twelve pieces, and each of these rolled in bread-crumbs, in the form of a cork, a round ball, or in the shape of a pear, and after being dipped in some beaten egg, must again be rolled in bread-crumbs and placed on a dish till within twenty minutes of dinner-time; the croquettes must then be fried in hot fat, and when done, drained to absorb all fat, then dished up with fried parsley, and served immediately. Note.—When croquettes are shaped in the form of pears, some parsley stalks of equal lengths should be stuck in at the pointed ends, before they are fried, to imitate the stalk of a pear. Veal and Ham Fillets with Italian Sauce Procure about one pound of veal, either from the leg, the chump- end of the loin, or best end of the neck: cut into round or oval fillets, season with pepper and salt, and place in a stew-pan with some clarified butter; an equal number of similarly cut slices of ham may either be put with these, or separately. Fry the veal and ham slices brown, pour off the fat, add the Brown Italian sauce and some button-mushrooms; simmer the whole together for three minutes, dish up, alternately placing a fillet of veal with the ham ; fill the centre with the mushrooms, pour the sauce round the entree, and serve. Scotch Collops Use about one pound of veal and trim the collops as in the foregoing recipe, season with parsley and shalots chopped finely, pepper and salt; dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and place the collops in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter; prepare also a dozen small round quenelles with some highly-seasoned veal force-meat. When about to send to table, fry the collops of veal a golden brown, glaze them, and dish in a close circle ; fill the centre with the quenelles (previously poached), pour a little thickened brown gravy with a little glaze in it, or some well-finished Espagnole sauce, round the entree, and serve. Minced Veal with Poached Eggs Pare off the outside part of eight ounces of veal, and then let it be minced very finely or cut into thin shreds. Put about half a pint of Bechamel sauce into a stew-pan and reduce it by boiling until it becomes rather thick, then add the minced veal and a tablespoonful of cream ; season with pepper and salt and a very little nutmeg; stirTHE MODERN COOK 262 the whole well together over the fire until warm, and dish up in a conical form; place four poached eggs round it; pour a little Bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Another Method Put one ounce of butter into a stew-pan on the fire, and when melted, throw in a dessertspoonful of flour; stir this with a wooden spoon over the fire for two minutes ; then gradually mix in half a pint of stock, stirring it until reduced to the thickness of Bechamel sauce; then add the minced veal, a tablespoonful of cream, a small piece of glaze, and a little nutmeg, pepper and salt; stir this on the fire for three minutes, and serve with poached eggs as in the previous recipe. Note.—Mushrooms, truffles, tongue, or ham, either minced or cut into shreds, may be added to the veal in either of the two foregoing recipes. Minced Veal a la Portuguaise See the directions for dressing beef in this method (p. 238). SWEETBREADS,1 Etc. Sweetbreads Larded with Green Peas A pair of heart sweetbreads generally suffice for a dish. They should be steeped in water for several hours, and the water frequently changed; then scalded in boiling water for about three minutes, and plunged in cold water for half an hour; after which they must be drained well, trimmed free from any sinewy fat, and put between two dishes to be slightly pressed flat, and then closely larded with strips of larding bacon in the usual manner. The sweetbreads must next be placed in a deep stew-pan on a bed of thinly-sliced carrot, celery, and onions, with a bouquet garni placed in the centre, the whole covered with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten with about half a pint of good stock, place a round of buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and after having put the sweetbreads to boil on the fire, remove them to the oven or on to the side of the fire (in the latter case live embers of charcoal must be placed on the lid) and allow them to braise rather briskly for about twenty minutes— frequently basting them with their own liquor. When done, remove the lid and paper covering, and set again in the oven to dry the surface of the larding; glaze nicely, and dish up on some stewed peas (see p. 35). Sweetbreads prepared in this way may also be served with dressed asparagus peas, French beans, cut slices of cucumbers, braised 1 Sweetbreads are two white glands found in all young animals : one being placed immediately below the throat, and the other, of a rounder form, lying nearer the heart. They are termed heart and throat sweetbreads : the former or pancreas is the most delicate, and when in perfection is white and fat; the latter is of an elongated form, not so fat as the other, and is only used for secondary purposes.SWEETBREADS 263 lettuces, celery, Macedoine of vegetables, Jardiniere, and also with any kind of vegetable puree described in this book. To raise the sweetbreads above the garnish or sauce served with them, it is necessary to place as many foundations as there are sweetbreads in the dish ; these may be made, either by boiling some rice in broth until it becomes quite soft, then working it into a paste one inch thick, or by using veal force-meat or even fried croutons of bread. Sweetbreads a la Monarque These must be blanched, larded, and braised as in the previous recipe; cut a kind of pillar out of a piece of stale bread of angular shape, about three inches high, each side of the angle measuring about two inches ; this should be fried in hot fat to a golden brown, and stuck in a perpendicular position in the centre of the dish with a little paste made of flour and white of egg. The sweetbreads are to be so arranged as to have one end resting up against this croustade, and between each a decorated fillet of fowl should be placed; crown the top with a row of white double cocks’-combs, stick in an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a large cock’s- comb, a mushroom, and a truffle; pour a Financi^re ragout (see p. 44) or a little half-glaze round the entrde, and serve. Sweetbreads a la Conti Prepare the blanched sweetbreads for braising, placing them upon a bed of thinly-sliced carrot, onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of bacon, layers of the same being placed also over the sweetbreads; moisten with a little good white stock, and braise the sweetbreads about twenty minutes. When the sweetbreads are done, drain and glaze lightly, without drying the glaze on; when about to dish up, garnish with a ragout composed of small quenelles of fowl, button-mushrooms, cocks’ combs and kernels, pour some Perigueux sauce under the entree, and serve. Sweetbreads a la St. Cloud These should be blanched and pressed in the usual way, and studded over in neat circular order with pieces of black truffle or red tongue cut out in the form of large hob-nails; make twelve openings with a blunt wooden skewer in each sweetbread, and introduce in these the nail-like pieces of tongue perpendicularly. Braise them according to the preceding directions, and when done, dish up with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43); slightly glaze the sweetbreads, and serve. Sweetbreads a la Parisienne After the sweetbreads have been blanched and pressed, lard in the following manner: one with shreds of very black truffles, another with shreds of the tip of a red tongue; braise between layers of fat bacon, and moisten with a wine mirepoix (see p. 57). When done, dish up against a triangular croustade garnished with a well-arranged Parisian ragout (see p. 46); stick an ornamental silver skewer garnished with a double comb, a large truffle, and a decorated264 THE MODERN COOK quenelle in the centre of the croustade, slightly glaze the sweet- breads, and serve. Note.—Sweetbreads may also be baked for persons of delicate health, being very nutritious and easily digested. In such cases they may be served with a little plain gravy, Supreme, or Brown sauce. Epigramme of Sweetbreads Procure a pair of throat sweetbreads and steep them in water for several hours, changing the water frequently; they must then be scalded for five minutes in boiling water, and after being plunged in fresh water to cool them, should be put in press between two dishes to flatten. Next put one of the sweetbreads to braise in some white stock; when done, set aside to get cool, and let it be afterwards cut into small circular slices and placed in a small stew-pan with an equal quantity of slices of red tongue and mushrooms. Cut the remaining sweetbread in a slanting direction into oval pieces a quarter of an inch thick, egg and bread-crumb; and when about to send to table, fry a light golden colour and glaze. Toss the braised sweetbreads in a little Bechamel sauce, dish up, alternately placing a bread-crumbed slice with a braised one; fill the centre with the small pieces of tongue, etc., previously warmed in a little Bechamel sauce, pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Sweetbreads with Shalot Gravy Prepare one or more throat sweetbreads, and egg and bread- crumb as directed in the previous recipe, fry them a light colour, drain on a piece of paper, and glaze; dish up in a close circle, pour some rich shalot gravy (see p. 40) under them, and serve. Sweetbreads a la Dauphine Blanch and cut the sweetbreads into oval slices, place them in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, a little nutmeg and some chopped parsley, squeeze over the juice of half a lemon, and simmer gently over the fire for ten minutes; they must then be placed on a dish, and, when partially cold, covered with a thin coating of puree of fowl mixed with an equal proportion of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, dip in beaten egg and bread-crumbs. Twenty minutes before sending to table, let them be carefully fried in plenty of hot fat; drain well, dish up in a close circle, pour some pur£e of mushrooms (see p. 30) in the centre, and serve. Sweetbreads k la d’Uxelles These are prepared in almost every particular just as the fore- going, except that d’Uxelles sauce must be substituted for the puree to mask the scallops with. After having simmered, let them be masked with the sauce, and afterwards bread-crumbed; then fried, dished up, and served with either of the following sauces : Brown or White Italian, Poivrade, half-glaze, scallops of mushrooms or truffles, pur£e of truffles, plain gravy, or pur£e of mushrooms.265 SWEETBREADS Sweetbreads a la Marechale These must be seasoned with a little pepper and salt, masked over with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and afterwards bread-crumbed; they should then be placed in circular order in a frying-pan with some clarified butter, and fried a light golden colour. When done, dish up in close order, and let the centre be filled with Toulouse ragout (see p. 43). Sweetbreads a la Soubise Prepare and dish up these according to the previous recipe; fill the centre with Soubise sauce, and serve. This may also be served with all kinds of garnishes of dressed vegetables, purees of vegetables, or any kind of sauce served with cutlets. Sweetbreads a la Poulette Blanch one or more sweetbreads in the usual manner, and cut them into circular slices, place in neat order in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice; simmer over a moderate fire for about ten minutes, and when done, remove into a stew-pan containing a good gill of sauce a la Poulette, add some chopped mushrooms or truffles, toss the whole together gently over the fire until sufficiently hot, and then dish up in a pyramidal form, and serve with a border of croquettes of potatoes round the entrde. Note.—Sweetbreads a la Russe and k la Provengale are prepared in the same manner as veal cutlets under the same names. Croquettes of Sweetbreads Blanch one or more sweetbreads and put them in a small stew- pan with two shalots, a little mignonette pepper, salt, half a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme; moisten with a little stock and put them to braise gently for about twenty minutes; when done, drain on a plate to get cold, after which cut up into very small dice, and mix with some reduced Allemande sauce; season with a little pepper and salt and grated nutmeg; stir the whole gently over the fire for two minutes, spread the preparation on a dish about an inch thick, and put it in the larder to get cold. The croquettes must then be shaped, egged, and bread-crumbed, and fried in the same manner as directed for veal croquettes. Note.—Some red tongue, mushrooms, or truffles, cut into small dice, may also be mixed in with the sweetbreads. Calf’s Ears a la Tortue Procure a pair of white calf’s ears (cut with a broad base), blanch them in boiling water for five minutes, after which plunge them in cold water, and wipe dry; then hold them on the point of a skewer over heat to singe off any remaining hairs; wipe clean, rub over with lemon juice, and braise in some white stock for about an hour andTHE MODERN COOK 266 a half or two hours. When the ears are done, drain, and with the back of the blade of a small knife scrape off all the soft skin, trim them neatly, and with the point of a knife cut the white gristle of each into strips—taking particular care not to draw the knife through —so that when the thin part of the ears is turned down, the strips may form themselves into-loops or curls. When the ears are ready to dish up, fill each with a decorated quenelle or a round truffle, garnish with a ragout k la Tortue (see p. 44), and serve. Fried Calf’s Ears with Tomato Sauce Prepare the ears as previously directed, and when done, let them be trimmed; scrape off the soft skin from the upper part, and cut each ear into four pieces lengthwise; put them to steep in a basin with two tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of vinegar, two sliced shalots, parsley, bay leaf and thyme, and a little mignonette pepper and salt. About twenty minutes before dinner-time, drain the pieces of ears from the marinade, dip them in some light batter, and fry them in plenty of hot fat. When fried, dish up in a pyramidal form, pour some Tomato sauce under them, and serve. Note.—Calf’s ears prepared in this manner may also be served with any of the following sauces: Piquante, Poivrade, Italian, Gherkin, Poor Man’s, Provengale, or Richelieu. If, however, this kind of fritter is not eaten as soon as served, it would be better to send the sauce separately. Calf’s Feet a la Pascaline Procure a pair of calfs feet, separate each foot into halves by splitting the hoof with a knife, take the bone out, and scald in boiling water for five minutes; the feet must then be braised in white stock, and when done, drained, cut into pieces about two inches square, and put into a stew-pan containing some button-mushrooms and Pascaline sauce; toss them in this over the fire until sufficiently hot, and serve with a border of fleurons, or potato croquettes round the entree. Fried Calf’s Feet with Italian Sauce These are prepared exactly the same as Calfs Ears with Tomato sauce (see above), but substituting Italian sauce for Tomato sauce. Braised Calf’s Liver with Vegetables Choose three-quarters of a pound of fresh calf’s liver ; wash and wipe it dry, and then lard it through with strips of ham and fat bacon ; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with veal or other trimmings of meat, place the liver upon them, garnish with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs ; moisten with a glass of sherry and a quart of strong stock ; place a buttered paper on the top, cover with the lid, and set the liver to braise very gently on a slow fire for about two hours and a half, frequently basting it with its own liquor. When done, remove the liver into a deep stew-pan with part of its liquor, previously reducedSWEETBREADS 267 to half-glaze ; use the remainder to work into some brown sauce for the entree ; put the liver in the oven to be glazed with its own liquor, and when done, dish up with groups of small carrots, turnips, and glazed onions round, pour the sauce under, and serve. Fried Calf’s Liver with Fine Herbs Sauce Wash, dry, and cut about three-quarters of a pound of liver up into neat slices a quarter of an inch thick, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown in a stew-pan with a little clarified butter; when this is done, pour off all the fat, add some Fine Herbs sauce, simmer the whole together on the fire for about three minutes, and serve. Calf’s Brains with Matelote Sauce Steep two sets of brains in water for several hours—care being taken to change the water frequently—and remove the loose skin that covers them. Place in a stew-pan containing some boiling water, and season with a tablespoonful of vinegar, some thinly-sliced carrot and onion, thyme and bay leaf, pepper and salt, and let them boil gently for about twenty minutes. The brains must then be drained upon a cloth. Place four croutons, cut in the shape of large cocks’-combs, on the bottom of an entree dish; place a lobe of brains in each of these; pour a Matelote ragout (see p. 44) over the entree, and serve. Calf’s Brains with Black Butter Sauce Prepare and dish up the brains according to the previous recipe; pour some Black Butter sauce (see p. 22) over them, place fried parsley in the centre, and serve. Calf’s Brains Fried in Batter a la Proven^ale These must be washed and soaked, and then gently boiled in water, with vinegar, etc. When drained, cut into oval slices, and steep in a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. When about to send to table, fry in batter in the usual way (see p. 56), and dish up with some Provencale sauce (see p. 8) under them, and serve. Note.—They may also be served with Tomato, Italian, Piquante, or Poivrade sauce. Scalloped Calf’s Brains When the brains have been washed and soaked, cut them into rather small pieces, and put them into a stew-pan with a few chopped mushrooms and truffles, season with a little cayenne and grated nutmeg, pour in some Allemande sauce and juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole gently together over the fire, and with this preparation fill as many silver scallop-shells as are required. Cover these over with a coating of fried or browned bread-crumbs, place for two minutes in a hot oven to gratinate, dish up on a napkin, and serve.268 THE MODERN COOK ENTREES OF LAMB Shoulder of Lamb Larded a la Financiere Saw off the upper part of the shank-bone of a small shoulder of lamb, then bone it entirely—with the exception of about three inches of the shank or leg bone, which must be left in. Spread the shoulder open, season with pepper and salt, and stuff with a thick layer of veal or fowl force-meat • then with a small trussing-needle and some fine string draw the outer edges of the skinny part of the shoulder into a purse-like form, and tighten the strings so as to give it the appearance of a cushion; take off any superfluous fat and lard it closely. Next strew the bottom of a stew-pan with sliced carrot, onion, celery, and a bunch of herbs; cover this with thin layers of fat bacon, and place the shoulder of lamb upon it; moisten with sufficient good stock to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper on the top, and cover with the lid; then set it to braise very gently upon a slow fire for about an hour and a half,—with some live embers of charcoal on the lid,—and take care to baste it frequently. When done, remove into a deep stew-pan, and after having strained the liquor, take off all the fat and boil it down to half-glaze, pour this on to the lamb, and put it in the oven to glaze, repeatedly basting the larding till the moisture is absorbed. The shoulder of lamb must then be placed upon a dish, and garnished with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44); put a paper ruffle on the bone, and serve. Neck of Lamb a la Regence Prepare this in exactly the same way as directed for neck of mutton larded en chevaux-de-frise (see p. 184). When braised, glaze it nicely and place upon a dish, garnish with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), and serve. Note.—Neck of lamb, prepared as the foregoing, may also be served with a Macedoine of vegetables or a Jardiniere. £pigramme of Lamb a la Toulouse Trim part of a neck of lamb into about eight cutlets, and place them in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets; and as soon as they are done, glaze them lightly and dish up; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some Espagnole half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Note.—Epigrammes of lamb may also be garnished with a blanquette, with slices of cucumber, stewed peas, asparagus peas, etc. Breast of Lamb ^ la Villeroi with Peas Braise a breast of lamb in the stock-pot, or in any kind of white stock; when done, take up carefully, remove all the bones, and reserve these for the purpose of making cutlet-bones with; put the breast in press between two dishes, and when cold cut into about six pieces, in the form of an elongated heart or of a cutlet; stick a269 ENTRIES OF LAMB small bone in at the narrow end, and spread a coating of reduced Allemande sauce over them; when this is set firm by cooling, roll first in bread-crumbs and then dip them in beaten egg, and bread- crumb over again. When about to send to table, fry these cutlets in plenty of hot fat, dish up, garnish with stewed peas, pour some half- glaze round the base, and serve. Note.—Breast of lamb prepared a la Villeroi may also be served with spinach, endives, cucumbers, asparagus peas, Macedoine, etc. Breast of Lamb a la Marechale Trim and prepare a small breast of lamb after the same manner as the previous recipe. Egg and bread-crumb and flatten the cutlets. When about to send to table, fry a light golden colour, drain on a sheet of paper, and glaze them lightly; dish up, and serve some White Italian sauce under them. They may also be served with all kinds of vegetable garnishes. Lamb Cutlets a la Princesse These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as cutlets of veal a la Dreux (see p. 259); then braised, pressed, and trimmed. Next cover the bottom of a saute-pan with some melted aspic jelly, not quite a quarter of an inch deep; when this has become set firm, by cooling, place the cutlets flat upon it, in circular order, then pour a little aspic jelly over them, just enough to cover them, and place the saute-pan on ice, to set the jelly; as soon as this has become quite firm, use a cutter (in the form of a cutlet) dipped in hot water to stamp the cutlets out; dish up in circular order upon a little aspic jelly, placed on the bottom of the dish, to raise the cutlets, and garnish the centre with a well-prepared Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) tossed in some bright aspic jelly, instead of sauce; ornament with a border of bold croutons of jelly, and serve. Lamb Cutlets with Cucumber Take eight nice cutlets. In trimming, care must be taken not to pare off any more of the fat than is positively necessary to give the cutlets shape. When trimmed, place in a stew-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, fry on both sides a light-brown colour, pour off the fat, throw in a little glaze, toss the cutlets over the fire in this, and dish up ; garnish the centre with prepared slices of cucumber (see p. 33), pour a little Espagnole or half-glaze round the entree, and serve. Lamb Cutlets, Bread=Crumbed, with Asparagus Peas Trim six or eight cutlets, season with pepper and salt, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs; then dip them in some clarified butter and bread-crumb over again; pat them into shape with the blade of a knife, and place them in neat order in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets a light golden colour, drain upon a sheet of paper, glaze and dish up ; fill the centre with asparagus peas (see p. 35), pour some thin Espagnole or half-glaze round them, and serve.270 THE MODERN COOK Lamb Cutlets a la Chevreuse The cutlets must be cut rather thick, allowing two ribs for each, but they should not be trimmed; prepare and braise in the same manner as veal cutlets a la Dreux (see p. 259); when done, pressed, and trimmed, mask over with a pur^e of onions mixed with one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese ; when cold, they should be dipped in beaten egg, and afterwards rolled in bread-crumbs ; keep in shape with the blade of a knife, and place upon a dish or in a stew-pan until dinner-time. Then fry them in hot fat a bright golden colour, dish up, put a small paper frill on the bone of each cutlet; fill the centre with small circular pieces of truffles, mushrooms, and fat livers, tossed in some Supreme sauce, pour some of the sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Note.—In addition to these methods for dressing lamb cutlets, they may also be served in every variety of form in which veal or mutton cutlets are prepared. Carbonade of Lamb Loin of lamb is used for this, and should be prepared and finished according to the directions for carbonade of mutton (see p. 251). Lamb’s Sweetbreads in Cases (Cold) Blanch, trim, press, and braise eight lamb’s breads; let them cool. Make a demi-glace sauce flavoured with the reduced liquor from the braise, and add enough aspic to set it. Trim the breads to the size and shape of the souffle cases used (china or silver are best for this purpose). Make a ragofit of artichoke bottoms cut in fine shreds and seasoned with mayonnaise cream. Put a small tablespoonful of this into each of the souffle cases ; upon this place a lamb’s bread. Put the cases on the ice for a few minutes, then pour over just enough of the demi-glace sauce so as to almost cover the breads. Again put them on the ice so as to set the sauce, put a fancifully cut slice of truffle in the centre of each bread, decorate round the edge with green peas, and, lastly, coat with a layer of well-flavoured aspic jelly. Lamb’s Sweetbreads a la Toulouse Steep about eight heart sweetbreads in cold water for a couple of hours, and then scald them slightly to set them, for the purpose of being afterwards larded ; they must next be placed in a deep stew- pan, covered with thin layers of fat bacon or else spread with one ounce of butter; moisten with sufficient strong consomme to reach nearly up to the larding; place a buttered paper upon them, and put them to boil briskly on the fire for five minutes, then set them in the oven, or cover them with a lid containing live charcoal, and place them on a moderate fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour, basting frequently with their own liquor. When the sweetbreads are nearly done, remove the lid and the paper, put them in the oven or pass a red-hot salamander over them to dry the larding, and then glaze them. When dished up, each sweetbread should be placed in271 ENTREES OF LAMB the dish upon a base, formed of poached quenelle force-meat made of fowl or veal, and shaped to resemble a dariole-mould. Fill the centre of the entree with stewed peas, pour some Espagnole sauce round the base, and serve. Note.—Lamb’s sweetbreads prepared as the foregoing may also be served with asparagus, Macedoine or Jardiniere of vegetables; also with Toulouse or Financiere ragouts; and indeed in every form directed for other sweetbreads. Blanquette of Lamb’s Sweetbreads Steep eight throat sweetbreads in water, scald them, and then braise them in a small stew-pan with very little stock for about a quarter of an hour; put them on a dish to cool, cut them into neat pieces, and put them into a stew-pan containing some sauce a la Poulette; toss the whole together till warm, then dish up the blanquette in a conical form, garnish round with a border of potato croquettes made in the form of pears, and serve. Note.—Mushrooms, truffles, cucumbers, or asparagus peas may be added. Scalloped Lamb’s Sweetbreads Braise six or eight sweetbreads, and when cold cut them into rather thin small slices. Finish these according to the directions for scalloped calf’s brains (see p. 267). Lamb’s Head a la Pascaline The lamb’s head must be scalded in the same way as a calf’s head for mock turtle, then boned, and filled up with force-meat made of the liver, as for a gratin (see p. 61); sew the head up with a trussing needle and string, secure in shape by fastening it in a piece of greased paper, and set it to braise in a stew-pan, seasoned with a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, a bunch of herbs, six cloves, and a blade of mace; moisten with good stock, and allow it to boil gently for about an hour and a half. While the above is in preparation, four lamb’s sweetbreads should be larded and prepared ready for glazing; a set of lamb’s brains must also be soaked and washed, and boiled in a little vinegar and water with sliced carrot and onion, pepper and salt, afterwards drained, cut, and made into croquettes. Two lamb’s tongues, after being braised, must be cut into slices, and placed in a stew-pan with a little chopped mushrooms and one pint of Pascaline sauce. When about to send to table, place the head with the ears curled upon a dish, and the larded sweetbreads at its four corners; between these put the croquettes of brains, previously fried, pour the pieces of tongue, mushrooms, and sauce round the head, glaze, and serve. Lamb’s Ears k la Financiere Procure half-a-dozen lamb’s ears, scald these, then plunge them in cold water; when cold, wipe dry, and singe over heat; they must then be gently braised in some white stock for about three-quarters of an hour, and when done, drained well; the thin part of the ears272 THE MODERN COOK should be carefully scraped with the back part of the blade of a knife to remove the skin, leaving the white cartilaginous part entire; this last must then be slit in narrow bands, without cutting through the ends, so that when the ears are turned down, these bands by curling over appear like a row of loops; place the ears as they are trimmed in a deep stew-pan containing some of their own liquor, cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and set aside till dinner-time. While the ears are braising, prepare enough veal force-meat to fill a plain low cylinder border mould (previously buttered); poach this in the usual way, and when about to send to table, turn it out upon a dish, place the lamb’s ears all round the top of it, and in each of these put a round ball of black truffle; fill the centre with a rich Financibre ragout (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a ragout a la Tortue (see p. 44). Lamb’s Ears a la Dauphine Scald, singe, braise, and trim six lamb’s ears as in the previous recipe, but they must not be slit. Fill them with force-meat made with fowl or veal, in which has been mixed a tablespoonful of white sauce and some chopped mushrooms ; mask the ears over with a coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set, roll them in bread-crumbs, and dip each separately in beaten egg seasoned with a little salt, then bread-crumb over again, place them upon a dish, and set aside in the larder. When about to send to table, fry the ears in plenty of hot fat to a golden brown, dish up in a circular row or pyramidally, pour some Supreme or Bechamel sauce, containing a few mushrooms cut into neat pieces, round and under them, and serve. Lamb’s Ears a la Venitienne Prepare these exactly in the same manner as for a la Financiere (see p. 271), dish up in a circle, and fill the centre with small round balls or croquettes of rice prepared as follows:—Boil two and a half ounces of rice in white stock till quite soft, then season with a pat of butter, an ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and salt; mix the whole well together, and form into small round balls the size of marbles; roll these in flour, and fry in clarified butter. Pour some Venetian sauce over the ears, and serve. Lamb’s Ears Fried in Batter See Calfs Brains so prepared (p. 267). Lamb’s Feet a la Poulette Remove the shank-bones from half-a-dozen lamb’s feet, without tearing or cutting through the part that covers the bone; scald them for about five minutes in boiling water, and then plunge in cold water; wipe and singe them, rub over with lemon juice, and braise them in some white stock for about an hour; then drain well, trimENTREES OF PORK 273 off the extremities neatly, make an incision in the hoof, and remove the round tuft of wool; place the lamb’s feet in a stew-pan contain- ing some button-mushrooms and one pint of sauce a la Poulette, toss them in this over the fire until quite warm ; then dish up neatly, and serve with a border of fleurons or croutons of fried bread. Lamb’s Feet a la d’Uxelles Braise and trim the feet as before, cover them with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce, and when this has become firmly set, bread-crumb them twice over in the usual manner, and fry them in hot fat; when done, drain and dish up with fried parsley upon a folded napkin, and serve some Italian sauce separately in a boat. t Lamb’s Feet Fried in Batter Proceed the same as directed for Calf’s Feet (see p. 266), using lamb’s feet or trotters in place of calf’s feet. ENTREES OF PORK Griskin or Spare = Rib of Pork a la Soubise Trim a small piece of griskin of pork and lard it closely, then put it in a deep dish with sliced onion and carrot, parsley, a gill of salad oil, some slices of peeled lemon, and a little mignonette pepper; allow the griskin to steep in this for several hours, or a whole day if possible. Then cover the larding with buttered paper, and roast for about an hour. When the griskin is ready for serving, pour some Soubise sauce (see p. 29) round, garnish with a border of potatoes fried in clarified butter, glaze, and serve. Griskin of Pork a la Lyonnaise Prepare and roast this in the same way as before, and when done, dish up with some Lyonnaise sauce (see p. 7) round it; garnish with a border of tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344), glaze the griskin, and serve. Griskin of Pork a la Perigueux This must be prepared and roasted as before; when done, serve with some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) and a border of mushrooms au gratin (see p. 344) round it. Broiled Pork Cutlets with Gravy, etc. Take eight small cutlets cut from the best end of the neck or loin of dairy-fed pork, not too fat; they should be trimmed but very little, the rough part of the chine-bone only requiring to be removed ; the skin must be left on and scored in six places. Season the cutlets with pepper and salt, and broil on a gridiron over a clear fire; dish up with any of the following gravies or sauces, and serve : plain sage and onion, shalot, onion, fine herbs gravies or essences: Piquante, Gherkin, Tomato, Poivrade, Poor Man’s, Richelieu, and Gasconne sauces. TTHE MODERN COOK 274 Pork Cutlets a la Sauce Robert, etc. Trim six or eight cutlets neatly, leaving nearly half an inch of fat on to encircle the fillet of the cutlet; place in an earthenware dish with a tablespoonful of salad oil; season with a little salt and pepper, and strew some sprigs of parsley over them ; leave to soak in this for a couple of hours. When about to send to table, broil the cutlets nicely with the gravy in them, glaze and dish up ; pour under some Sauce Robert (see p. 16), and serve. Pork Cutlets a l’Aurore Trim the cutlets neatly as before, season with pepper and salt, and place in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the cutlets over a brisk fire so as to lightly colour them on both sides, then pour off all the fat and glaze them. Next rub the yolks of two or more hard-boiled eggs equally over all the cutlets, and pass a red-hot salamander over them to colour the yolk of egg a shade darker; then dish up the cutlets with some essence of anchovies (see p. 42) poured under them, and serve. Pork Cutlets a l’lndienne Fry the cutlets brown on both sides, then pour off all the fat, adding about half a pint of Espagnole sauce and a tablespoonful of best “ Empress ” curry paste; put the lid on the saute-pan, and simmer the cutlets over the fire very gently for ten minutes longer; add a small piece of glaze, toss the whole together, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with boiled rice, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. Pig’s Feet a la St. Menehould For this purpose procure two pairs of feet of bacon hogs, as the feet of porkers are not large enough to be worth dressing for the table. They must first be pickled in common salt brine for about ten days, and then, after being washed, should be braised in ordinary stock, seasoned with carrot, onion, celery, and a bouquet garni; if the feet are large they will require about four hours’ gentle cooking. When done, drain on a dish, cut them in halves, and remove all the large bones, press them into shape with the hands, and put them in the larder to cool. Next season the pieces of pig’s feet with pepper and salt, brush over with clarified butter, then roll in bread-crumbs, and pat these closely on with the blade of a knife; broil on a gridiron over a clear fire, taking care that they are frequently turned until warmed through ; then dish up, and serve with Piquante sauce (see p. 6). Pig’s Feet a la Perigord These should be braised and the bones taken out, and before they become quite cold, filled inside and partially covered with some force-meat of fat livers mixed with some chopped truffles. The feet must next be wrapped up in appropriate-sized pieces of pig’s caul. When about to send to table, broil the feet upon oiled paper placed275 ENTREES OF PORK upon the gridiron to prevent the force-meat from burning or falling to pieces. When nicely broiled on both sides, glaze and dish up, and serve with some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) under them. Pig’s Feet a la Richelieu Braise the feet, remove all the bones, and cut each foot in halves lengthwise; spread all over with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), and when this has become firmly set, bread-crumb them twice over, the first time dipped in egg, and the second in clarified butter: place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, and fry over a moderate fire, so as to allow them time to warm through before browning. When done, dish up, and serve with some Richelieu ragout (see p. 47) under them. Black Puddings a la Fran^aise To one pint of pig’s blood add rather more than half a pint of double cream, three-quarters of a pound of the fat from the inside of a pig, cut into rather small pieces, and two large onions chopped and fried in a little butter without becoming coloured; season with a little chopped bay leaf and thyme, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; mix well together, and stuff the prepared linings, taking care to allow room for tying them into lengths of about six inches. Boil the puddings, and let them remain in the water until firm to the touch ; they must not, however, be kept in the water longer than will suffice to set the stuffing. When taken out of the water, the puddings should be hung up in the larder to cool. Black Puddings a l’Anglaise The chief difference in making black puddings according to the English method lies in the omission of the nutmeg, bay leaf, and thyme, and in the addition of boiled oats or rice; in all other respects the same directions must be followed. When about to serve the black puddings, they should be scored all over to prevent them from bursting while being broiled, and when done, dished up with strips of dry toast placed between each piece of pudding: the centre of the dish should be filled with mashed potatoes to keep them quite hot. White Puddings a la Royale To half a pound of the breast of a roast fowl thoroughly pounded to a puree, add half a pint of double cream, half a pound of fine bread-crumbs, one boiled onion chopped finely, two ounces of butter, and two or three yolks of eggs; season with pepper and salt, and grated nutmeg; mix well together, put this preparation into the linings, and finish in the same manner as for black puddings. When about to send to table, score the puddings before they are broiled, and place them on the gridiron upon a sheet of oiled paper; when nicely broiled, serve them dished up with either of the following sauces: Supreme, Richelieu, Poivrade, essence of shalots, of truffles, or of mushroom.THE MODERN COOK 276 ENTREES OF VENISON Haricot of Venison Trim and cut a small neck of venison into cutlets without paring off any of the fat, season them with pepper and salt, and fry them brown on both sides before they are half done; then pour off all the fat, shake a dessertspoonful of flour over the cutlets, and toss them over the fire for three minutes, moisten with a glass or two of red wine and a pint of good stock ; add a gill of small button-onions, and the same amount of turnips and carrots cut into small fanciful shapes of the size of the onions, and a bunch of herbs; stir the haricot over the fire with a wooden spoon until it boils, and then remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for about an hour and a half; when tender, remove the cutlets into a deep stew-pan; then add the vegetables, and after the sauce has boiled up and been skimmed, reduce it, if necessary, to a proper consistency, and pass through a tammy or fine strainer into the stew-pan containing the cutlets, etc. ; add a little salt if needed; simmer the whole together on the fire, dish the cutlets in the usual way, fill the centre with the vegetables, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve. Ragout of Venison Fry the cutlets brown, pour off all the fat, add a glass or two of red wine, half a pint of Espagnole, and the same proportion of consomme, season with a carrot, an onion, a stick of celery, and a bunch of herbs; leave to simmer gently by the side of the fire until the cutlets are tender; they must then be removed into another stew-pan with a little of the sauce to warm them in, the lid put on, and kept warm. The remainder of the sauce must be strained through a fine strainer into a smaller stew-pan; and after it has been clarified, by gently boiling it by the side of the fire, and thoroughly skimming off all that rises to the surface, reduce it by boiling to its proper consistency, and pass it through a tammy or fine strainer into a bain-marie. When about to send to table, dish the cutlets up, fill the centre with some glazed carrots and turnips, previously prepared for the purpose; place some groups of small glazed button-onions round the entree, pour the sauce over the cutlets, and serve. A neat frill of paper may be put on the bone of each cutlet. Civet of Venison This dish, although not very choice, is often served; in general, the inferior parts of venison—such as the shoulder and scrag end of the neck—are used for this purpose. The venison must be cut up into pieces, and for its preparation follow the directions for making a civet of hare (see p. 319).277 ENTREES OF VENISON Scallops of Venison Venison for this purpose ought to be kept until it has become quite tender: a piece of the end of the neck may be used. Cut the fillet from the bones with all the fat adhering to it, remove the outer skin, and then cut it into scallops—taking care not to trim off more of the fat than is necessary; place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry brown on both sides; pour off all the fat, add some chopped mushrooms, a piece of glaze, and a glass of port wine; simmer the whole together over the fire for about three minutes, and then pour in half a pint of Poivrade sauce (see p. 8); toss the scallops in the sauce on the fire until quite hot, and then dish up with a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), and serve. Venison Chops Cut eight or ten chops, about an inch thick, from the end of the haunch or the best end of the neck, flatten them a little with a cutlet bat, trim them without waste, season with pepper and salt, and broil them on a gridiron over a clear fire, turning them over every three minutes; when done through with the gravy in them, lift them carefully off the gridiron without spilling the gravy on the surface, dish up with a little rich brown gravy under them, and serve some currant jelly or venison sweet sauce (see p. 16) separately in a sauce-boat. Venison Fry Cut the fry into appropriate-sized pieces, season with pepper and salt, place them on kitchen paper with a dessertspoonful of flour, then fry them brown and crisp in a frying-pan with some butter; when done, dish up in a pile with fried parsley round, pour either of the following sauces under it, and serve quite hot: rich brown gravy, essence of anchovies, Poivrade, Espagnole, Italian, or Piquante sauce. Roebuck Cutlets a la Chasseur Trim eight to ten cutlets in the same way, and place in a saute-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and set them in the larder. Wrap a small shoulder in buttered paper and roast it; all the meat must then be cut from the bone, chopped fine, and thoroughly pounded in a mortar with two tablespoonfuls of sauce and a pat of butter, then rubbed through a tammy or a very fine wire-sieve into a puree; this must be gathered up into a small saute- pan and placed with the cutlets. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets brown, pour off the fat, add a piece of glaze, half a pint of Espagnole or Poivrade sauce (if the former, add some lemon juice also); let the cutlets simmer over the fire for a few minutes, and dish them up; fill the centre with the puree, pour the sauce over the entree, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 278 Fillets of Roebuck a la Kinnaird Cut out the fillets from a small neck of roebuck, trim these neatly, and lard them closely; steep them for about two days and nights in some cold marinade (see p. 57), and when about to dress the fillets, drain and place them in a saute-pan spread with butter, and moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57) in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding; place a buttered paper on the top, and put them to braise in the oven; baste frequently with their own liquor, and when done, glaze them nicely and place them on a dish; garnish with groups of quenelles made with roebuck, and small potatoes cut in the form of large olives and fried in clarified butter; pour some Neapolitan sauce (see p. 16) under the entree, glaze the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Roebuck with Poivrade Sauce These are prepared in the same manner as before; when done and glazed, dish up with a border of potatoes, cut in the form of olives and fried in clarified butter, pour some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) under them, and serve. Civet of Roebuck is prepared in the same way as civet of hare (see p. 319). ENTREES OF POULTRY Fricassee of Chicken with Mushrooms Procure a plump, tender chicken, and after it has been drawn, singe it over heat, and then cut up into small joints in the following manner:—First, remove the wings at the second joint, and the legs at the knotty bend of the first joint; then take hold of the chicken with the left hand, and with a sharp knife make two parallel cuts lengthwise on the back, about an inch and a half apart, so as partly to detach or at least to mark out where the legs and wings are to be removed; the chicken must next be placed upon its side on the table, and after the leg and fillet (with the pinion left on the upper side) have been cut, the same must be repeated on the other, and the thigh-bones must be removed. Then separate the back and breast, turn these without waste, and cut the back across into two pieces; steep the joints of fowl in a basin of tepid water for about ten minutes. Next strew the bottom of a stew-pan with a thinly- sliced carrot, onion, and a stick of celery, three cloves, twelve peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a bouquet garni; place the pieces of chicken in neat order upon the vegetables, etc., moisten with a little stock or water; cover with the lid, and set the whole to boil gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour, when the chicken will be done. The joints must then be drained on a wire- sieve, and the liquor reserved in a basin; next plunge the pieces of chicken in cold water, wash and drain, and afterwards trim neatly and place in a stew-pan in the larder. Put two ounces of butter to279 ENTREES OF POULTRY melt in a stew-pan, add two tablespoonfuls of flour, and stir the roux over the fire for three minutes without allowing it to brown; it should then be removed from the fire, and a pint of the chicken- broth poured slowly into it. The whole must be thoroughly mixed together into a smooth sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, then set it by the side to continue gently boiling to throw up the scum. When the sauce has boiled half an hour, skim it, reduce by further boiling to its proper consistency, and then incorporate with it a liaison of two yolks of eggs mixed with a pat of butter and a tablespoonful of cream: set the liaison in the sauce by stirring it over the fire until it nearly boils, then pass it through a tammy into the stew-pan containing the pieces of chicken, and add half a pint of prepared button-mushrooms. When about to send to table, warm the fricassee without allowing it to boil, and dish up as follows:— Put the pieces of the back in the centre of the dish, place the legs at the angles, the bones pointed inwardly ; place the fillets upon these, and then set the pieces of breast on the top; pour the sauce over, and place the mushrooms about the fricassee in groups; garnish with eight or ten glazed crofitons of fried bread cut in the form of hearts, and serve. Note.—Truffles cut into slices or shaped in the form of olives, crayfish-tails, button-onions, or artichoke-bottoms cut into small pointed quarters may also be served with a fricassee of chicken. Fricassee of Chicken a la St. Lambert Cut into small dice the following vegetables, etc.: one carrot, an. onion, one or two sticks of celery, and two ounces of raw ham; put these into a stew-pan with a small piece of butter, half a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, three cloves, a blade of mace, and a few pepper- corns ; stir over a slow fire for about ten minutes, without allowing the vegetables to brown, then moisten with a glass or two of French white wine and a pint of ordinary stock; boil this gently for half an hour, and then strain through a sieve into a basin. Next cut the chicken up as directed in the previous recipe ; melt two ounces of butter in a stew-pan, throw in the pieces of chicken, and toss them over the fire until they feel firm to the touch without browning; then shake in two tablespoonfuls of flour, toss the whole together over the fire for two minutes, and pour in a pint of the liquor prepared for the purpose; stir the fricassee over the fire until it boils, and finish as before. When about to send to table, warm and dish up the fricassee; garnish the dish with small groups of glazed carrots, turnips, and French beans cut into small fanciful shapes: pour the sauce round the entree, and serve. Fricassee of Chicken & la Dauphine Prepare a fricassde in the same manner as described on p. 278, and place the pieces of chicken when trimmed on a dish; after having reduced the sauce to the consistency of Allemande, incor- porate the liaison, etc., and when this is set in the sauce, pass it through a tammy into a small basin; dip each of the pieces ofTHE MODERN COOK 28o chicken in this, and replace them on the dish; when the sauce has become set upon them by cooling, roll in bread-crumbs, dip in beaten egg, and bread-crumb over again. When about to send to table, place the pieces of chicken thus prepared in a frying-basket, plunge into plenty of clean hot fat, fry a light golden colour; and when done, drain well, and dish up on a clean napkin or fancy paper with fried parsley, and serve some White Italian sauce separately in a sauce-boat. Note.—This entree may also be dished up with some Allemande or Bechamel sauce, containing a few chopped mushrooms or truffles, poured under and round it. Fricassee of Chicken in Aspic Prepare a fricassee of chickens as directed (see p. 278); keep the pieces of chickens separate from the sauce, which must be rather stiffly reduced, previous to incorporating the liaison of eggs in it; and when this has been done, add about one-third of its quantity of melted aspic jelly; stir them together on the ice, and when well mixed, dip the pieces of chicken in it, and dish up. The entree should be raised in a conical form, and neatly masked with the remainder of the sauce, so as to detach each piece of chicken in relief. Place some fine white cocks’-combs, white button-mushrooms, and glazed truffles in the cavities; surmount the whole with a large truffle, in which a large white cock’s-comb has been inserted, garnish the base with some chopped aspic jelly, and place a border of angular or fancy-shaped croutons of bright aspic jelly round this. Fricassee of Chicken a la Financiere Prepare this as directed on p. 278, and when dished up, garnish with groups of cocks’-combs, mushrooms, truffles, and some small quenelles of fowl. Fricassee of Chicken a la Chevaliere When the chicken has been drawn and singed, remove the legs and wings, and then, with the point of a knife, slit the skin of the breast, and remove the fillets with the pinion-bone left on them; each fillet must be trimmed and larded, and placed in a small stew- pan upon thin layers of fat bacon; the remainder of the chicken must be cut up and made into a fricassee in the ordinary way. When this is done, the legs must be neatly trimmed and set aside in the larder, and the smaller pieces placed in a stew-pan with a few button-mushrooms and truffles; reduce the liquor by boiling it to the consistency of Allemande sauce, incorporate a liaison of two yolks of eggs, a little grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, a small piece of glaze, and a teaspoonful of lemon juice; when this has become set in the sauce by stirring it over the fire for two minutes, pass two-thirds of it through a tammy on to the fricassee, and keep the rest for masking the legs. These must be afterwards bread- crumbed and fried. The larded fillets should be moistened with a little half-glaze, and put in the oven or on a slow fire to braise orENTRIES OF POULTRY 281 simmer for about twenty minutes; they are then to be glazed. In dishing up this entree, first place all the small joints of the chicken in the bottom of the dish in neat order; the legs are next to be added, and then the larded fillets must be placed between these with the taper end pointing upwards, and the whole surmounted with a large truffle, and a border of white double cocks’-combs should be placed round the entree; add the remainder of the sauce, and serve. Fricassee of Chicken a la Romaine When the chicken has been cut up and trimmed in the usual way, place the pieces neatly in a stew-pan with a gill of salad oil, bay leaf and thyme, two shalots, mignonette pepper, salt, a little grated nutmeg, one clove of garlic, and a pimiento; fry the pieces of chicken over a rather brisk fire until the pieces become firm to the touch, but without browning; shake in two tablespoonfuls of flour, toss the whole over the fire for three minutes, and moisten with a glass of Chablis or Sauterne wine and a pint of white consomme; stir the fricassee on the fire till it boils, then remove it to the side to continue gently boiling for half an hour. Skim off the oil, etc., that has risen to the surface, drain the pieces of chicken, reserving the sauce in a stew-pan to be reduced and finished in the ordinary manner; trim the pieces of chicken neatly, and put them into a stew-pan with the sauce, some button-mushrooms or morels, trimmed crayfish-tails and cocks’ kernels. When about to send to table, warm the fricassee, and add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and a pat of butter, previously pounded with a small red pimiento and a piece of lobster coral, and passed through a sieve. Dish this in the usual manner, and serve. Chicken a la Marengo Cut up one or more chickens or fowls into small joints, as for a fricassee; place them in a braising-pan with half a gill of salad oil, a few truffles cut into the form of olives, a bunch of herbs, a bruised clove of garlic, mignonette pepper, and salt; set the braise-pan on a moderate fire, and put some live embers of charcoal on the lid. Allow the chickens to fry rather briskly for about twenty minutes so as to brown well. Then pour off nearly all the oil, and remove the herbs; add one dozen prepared button-mushrooms, a pint of Espagnole sauce (see p. 3), and a piece of glaze; simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and dish up the entree in the following order:—First place the pieces of the backs and the wings, next the legs, the fillets, and lastly the pieces of the breasts; then pour the sauce, etc., over the entrde, garnish round with crofitons of fried bread, and serve. Chicken Saute with Oysters The pieces of chicken must be cut up in the ordinary way, and after being neatly trimmed, should be placed in a stew-pan with some clarified butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and fried a light-brown colour. Pour off the butter, add eighteen parboiled oysters withTHE MODERN COOK 282 their liquor (previously reduced in quantity by boiling), and a pint of Espagnole sauce, a piece of glaze, and a squeeze of lemon juice; leave to simmer for ten minutes, and then dish up the entree with fried croutons of bread round it. Note.—This method of dressing chickens or fowls may be varied by substituting mussels, cockles, olives, truffles, mushrooms, or morels for the oysters. Chicken a la Financiere Prepare the pieces of chicken as before, and when they are fried brown, pour off the fat; add a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44); simmer the whole together on the fire for five minutes, and then dish up the entree as directed in previous recipes; pour the ragout over it, garnish with croutons, and serve. Chicken a la Provengale Cut a large onion into rings, put into a stew-pan with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and fry lightly; then add a chicken cut up and trimmed as for a fricassee; season with mignonette pepper, salt, a bouquet garni, and a clove of garlic; cover and leave the chicken to simmer briskly over a moderate fire for about half an hour. Put into a small stew-pan some chopped truffles, shalots, mushrooms, and parsley; moisten with a tablespoonful of salad oil and a glass of Madeira; stew these on the fire for five minutes, and then boil the whole down to a glaze. When the chicken is done, pour off all the fat, add the mushrooms, etc., a piece of glaze and three-quarters of a pint of Tomato sauce (see p. 7); simmer the whole together for ten minutes over the fire, then dish up in a conical form, pour the ragout over, and serve. • Chicken a la Lyonnaise Cut up a plump tender chicken, and fry in butter as directed on p. 281; when done, pour off all the fat, add some Lyonnaise sauce (see p. 7), simmer the whole together on the fire for ten minutes, and serve. Chicken a la Diable Draw and singe a tender chicken, and then twist the legs inside neatly through the sides without tearing the skin; cut through the breast-bone lengthwise into halves; take out all the bones, season with pepper and salt, rub over with clarified butter, and broil on both sides a light brown; when done, dish up and glaze over, pour some Devil’s sauce (see p. 22) under, and serve. Chicken a la Tartare Bone a plump chicken, and cut up as in the previous recipe, season with pepper and salt, rub over with beaten egg, bread- crumb the pieces, then dip in clarified butter, and bread-crumb over again ; pat the bread-crumbs close together with the blade of a knife, broil the pieces carefully to prevent their browning too deeply, andENTRIES OF POULTRY 283 when done, glaze lightly, and serve with some half-glaze under them. Send some Tartare sauce (see p. 23) separately to table in a sauce- boat. Chicken a 1’Algerienne Cut the chicken up as for a fricassee, place the pieces in a deep stew-pan with some clarified butter and some slices of raw ham; season with cayenne, a bouquet garni, and a clove of garlic; fry the chicken over a brisk fire until slightly brown; then pour off the fat, and add a glass of Madeira, a teaspoonful of curry paste, a piece of glaze, a pint of Espagnole sauce, and a dozen mushrooms; simmer the whole together over the fire for ten minutes, then add a pat of butter and a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Dish up the entree in a pyramidal form, reserving the pieces of breast and the fillets to be placed uppermost; garnish with the ham and mushrooms, pour the sauce over, place twelve croutons of bread round, and serve. Chicken a la Florentine Choose a small spring chicken, bone and trim neatly, season with mignonette pepper and salt, and place in a deep stew-pan with half a gill of salad oil and a bunch of herbs; add three ounces of raw ham or streaky bacon, cut up into square pieces and parboiled in water for ten minutes, a teaspoonful of crushed pimento, two table- spoonfuls of small button-onions (also parboiled in water for five minutes), the same quantity of small carrots trimmed in the form of olives, and a dozen mushrooms. Simmer all together over a moderate fire until the pieces of chicken, etc., are brown, then pour off all the fat, add a glass of Malaga wine and a piece of glaze; simmer the whole together over a brisk fire until the moistening is reduced to a glaze; toss the pieces of chicken, etc., about in this to coat the glaze, and immediately dish up the entree, reserving the mushrooms, etc., to be placed in groups about the dish; next pour a gill of Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, allow to simmer, then pour it over the entree, and serve. Curry of Spring Chicken Cut up a spring chicken as for a fricassee, trim the joints neatly, place them in a stew-pan with some clarified butter, and fry until they become firm to the touch; then pour off all the fat, add half a pint of Curry sauce (see p. 12), and set the curry to simmer very gently over a slow fire until the pieces of chicken have become perfectly tender; the entree may then be dished up, the sauce poured over it, and some plain boiled rice sent to table separately. Curried Chicken (another method) Fry the pieces of chicken or fowl in butter until they are well browned all over; then slice up a large onion and a small head of celery, and put these into a stew-pan, together with a clove of garlic, a bouquet garni, a blade of mace, and four cloves. Fry the whole over a slow fire until lightly browned : add a tablespoonful of curry pasteTHE MODERN COOK 284 and a similar proportion of flour; mix together and moisten with a pint of good stock or gravy; stir the sauce over the fire and keep it boiling for about twenty minutes, then rub it through a hair-sieve or tammy, and afterwards pour it over the pieces of chicken. Leave the curry to simmer gently over a slow fire until the pieces of chicken become tender, and then dish up as usual. Chicken and Tongue Cutlets a la Reine About 8 oz. raw chicken, 1 tablespoonful cream, 1 yolk of egg, 2 oz. panade, 6 slices of cooked ox-tongue, 6 cutlet-shaped croutons of fried bread, meat glaze, 6 preserved mushrooms, demi-glace sauce, pepper and salt, butter. Prepare a force-meat by pounding the chicken in a mortar, add the cream, panade, and yolk of egg, and season to taste. Butter six cutlet moulds. Shape each slice of tongue precisely the same size as cutlets, place each slice on a crouton of bread. Chop the trimmings of tongue rather finely, put them with the force-meat, pound again, and rub the whole through a sieve. Chop the mushrooms as finely as possible, and mix with the farce. Fill the moulds with this, and steam them in the oven. When done, turn on to the prepared crofitons and tongue, place on a baking-sheet, glaze them over, and put in the oven for a few seconds. Dish up in a circle, sauce over with demi-glace, and serve. Fritot of Chicken with Tomato Sauce The chicken must be cut up as for a fricassee and the pieces neatly trimmed; then place them in a basin with some slices of onion, parsley, bay leaf, and thyme, mignonette pepper and a little salt, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and the juice of half a lemon ; steep them in this for several hours; and when about to send to table, drain the pieces of chicken, shake some flour over them so as as to entirely coat the pieces, form them into shape, drop into hot fat, and fry a golden colour. When done, drain the pieces of chicken on paper, and glaze over slightly; dish up in a pyramidal form, garnish with a border of fried eggs and croutons of bread placed alternately; pour some Tomato or Poivrade sauce round the fritot, and serve. Capilotade or Rechauffe of Chicken or Fowl & l’ltalienne This entree is generally served when there happens to be any cold roast fowl left over. This should be cut up into small joints trimmed neatly, and placed in a stew-pan containing half a pint of Italian sauce (see p. 5) and a few mushrooms and truffles ; when about to send to table, allow the capilotade to simmer gently on a slow fire until the pieces of chicken have become thoroughly impregnated with the sauce. Then dish up, and garnish round with croutons of bread ; pour the sauce over, and serve. Chicken a la Toscane Prepare the chicken in the first instance as for a fritot, and after the pieces have been sufficiently steeped, drain them upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture, rub each piece over separately with beaten egg,285 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE and roll in bread-crumbs; they must then be dipped in, or sprinkled over with, clarified butter, and again bread-crumbed, patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. About twenty minutes before sending to table, fry the pieces of chicken to a golden colour, and when done, drain, and glaze over lightly, and dish up ; garnish with macaroni dressed with cheese, pour some essence of fowl round the base of the dish, and serve. Note.—This dish may also be served without the macaroni, and is then called a la Viennoise, in which case some quenelles of potatoes may be added. CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE Chicken en Casserole Line the bottom of an earthenware fireproof casserole with thinly- cut slices of streaky bacon, slices of carrot, and one sliced onion. Put in one ounce of butter and let it melt over the fire, then place in a ready-trussed fowl, breast downwards; let it take colour (a nice golden brown), then turn it and brown the other side. Pour off the fat in the casserole, add a small bouquet of herbs (parsley, thyme, and bay leaf), also twelve small button-onions, peeled, and fried in butter. Moisten with half a pint of rich stock or gravy and a gill of brown sauce. Cover the pan and place it in a fairly hot oven for about one hour : by that time the fowl should be quite cooked ; baste it occasionally during the process of cooking. Take up the fowl, strain the sauce and skim it, then put it back into the casserole together with the bacon and onion; put in the fowl after the string and skewers have been removed. See that the sauce is nicely seasoned. Keep the contents of the casserole hot until required for table, then place it on a folded napkin on a large round dish, and serve. Young Chickens, Austrian Style 3 chic chickens, r pair lamb’s breads, J gill olive oil, mirepoix, 6 small kidney potatoes, 1 oz. butter, 12 button-mushrooms, ^ lb. chicken farce, 1 tablespoonful concentrated tomato pulp, 1 pint Madere sauce, seasoning. Divide the chickens, previously trussed, into small joints. Heat up the oil in a saute-pan, and fry the chickens in this for a few minutes to acquire a golden brown. Wash and peel the mushrooms, toss them in butter, and season with salt and pepper. Mix the chicken farce with half the tomato puree, and shape by means of a dessertspoon into small quenelles. Poach these carefully in seasoned stock. Have ready a casserole or cocotte terrine (earthen- ware or silver-plated), range in it the chicken pieces, lamb’s breads cut into thick slices, and the potatoes and mushrooms ; season each layer, and sauce over with the Madfere sauce, previously blended with the remainder of the tomato pulp. Place the poached quenelles:THE MODERN COOK 286 on top, and pour over the rest of the sauce. Cover and cook slowly in a fairly hot oven for about thirty-five minutes. Place the terrine on to a folded napkin on an oblong entree dish, and serve hot. Chicken a la Reine Truss two very small spring chickens for boiling, rub them over with lemon juice, and wrap them up separately in a sheet of thickly- buttered paper; then place the chickens in a stew-pan with a bouquet garni, a carrot and an onion stuck with two cloves; moisten with white stock in sufficient quantity to nearly cover the chickens; set them to boil gently for about forty minutes, when they will be done. When about to send to table, drain the chickens, and after having removed the paper and string, dish them up side by side, and cover them with Supreme sauce, garnish the dish with four groups of very small quenelles of fowl, and serve. Chicken a i’ltalienne Truss and boil two small chickens according to the foregoing directions; when done, remove the paper and dish up; sauce with a rich Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), garnish with a border of stuffed mushrooms (see p. 344), and serve. Chicken with Tomato Sauce These are prepared in the same manner as the foregoing, with this exception that, when dished up, they must be sauced with a well-finished Tomato sauce, and a border of tomatoes au gratin (see p. 344) should be placed round them. Chicken a la Venitienne The chickens when boiled and dished up must be sauced with a Venetian sauce (see p. 8), and garnished with a border of raviolis (see p. 103). Chicken a la Dauphine Draw two small spring chickens, proceed to bone them as for “galantines,” excepting that the legs and wings must be left entire. The interior must be then filled with quenelle of fowl, in which has been mixed some chopped mushrooms and parsley; the chickens should afterwards be trussed, taking care to give them the same shape as they would have were the bones not removed; and after rubbing them over with lemon juice, cover the breasts with thin layers of fat bacon, and secure their shape by wrapping them in sheets of buttered paper; then place them in a stew-pan with carrot, onion, and a bouquet garni; moisten with some light mirepoix (see p. 57), and set the chickens to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour; when done, drain them, remove the string, etc., and dish them up; sauce with the clarified essence in which they have been braised, and serve.287 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE It is also customary to serve chickens, fowls, capons, or poulardes, when prepared in this fashion, with a ragoht k la Financiere, a la Parisienne, with Macedoines, or Jardinieres of vegetables, Italian, Poivrade, Tomato, or Supreme sauce. Chicken a la Montmorency Truss two small chickens, and let their breasts be entirely covered with close larding; next place them in a stew-pan containing a wine mirepoix (see p. 57), covering the unlarded parts with thin layers of fat bacon; add as much good consomme as will reach up to the larding, cover the chickens with a round of buttered paper, and set them to braise gently on a slow fire—taking care that the lid of the stew-pan be covered with live embers of charcoal to effect the glazing of the larding. When the chickens are done, dish them up, garnish with a white Financiere ragoflt (see p. 44), or a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and serve. Chickens & la Montmorency may also be dished up with an ornamental croustade in the centre, in which should be fixed five atelets garnished. Chicken a la Milanaise These should be trussed and boiled, and when done, dished up with a ragout it la' Milanaise (see Capon it la Milanaise, p. 207); they may also be garnished with a border of rissoles (see p. 468). Chicken a la Chivry Truss one or two small spring chickens so as to look very plump, boil or braise them in some white stock; and when done, dish them up. Pour under them a Chivry or Ravigote sauce (see p. 19), and send to table. Chicken a la Florentine Truss two spring chickens and lard the breast very closely with black truffles cut into strips, which must be used instead of bacon for this purpose; the chickens should be covered with thin layers of fat bacon (to prevent the truffles from drying and breaking off), then braised in white stock, and when done, dished up with an ornamental croustade of bread fried a light-brown colour and placed in the centre of the dish ; garnish with alternate groups of small quenelles of fowl coloured with lobster spawn, truffles cut in the form of olives, and small croquettes of rice mixed with a little grated Parmesan cheese; sauce the chickens, without masking the breasts, with some Allemande sauce. Fill the croustade with trimmed crayfish tails tossed in a little of the sauce, and serve. Chicken a la Cardinal Draw two spring chickens; after which, with theaid of the forefinger, detach the skin as much as possible from the breasts and legs of the chickens without tearing it; the interstices between the skin and fillets, etc., should be covered with some quenelle of fowl coloured a deep red with lobster spawn. The chickens are then to be trussed288 THE MODERN COOK for boiling in the usual manner, being covered with thin layers of fat bacon to protect the skin from breaking; place in a stew-pan with the customary vegetables, etc., moisten with white stock and set them to braise very gently on a slow fire—care must be taken to prevent their boiling fast, as in that case the quenelle would burst the skins. When done, dish up with an ornamental fried bread croustade in the centre of the dish; garnish with small groups of glazed truffles, cocks’- combs, and button-mushrooms, and at each end place a larded sweetbread; sauce with some Cardinal sauce, and serve. Chicken a 1’AIIemande These must be trussed and boiled as usual, and when done, dished up with a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80), first poached, then covered with fried bread-crumbs, and placed round the chickens; sauce with a rich Allemande sauce (see p. 3), and send to table. Chicken a l’lndienne Truss two spring chickens for boiling, lard the breasts closely, and place in a conveniently sized stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; add some good stock in sufficient quantity to reach up to the larding, place a buttered paper over the chickens, and having put the lid on the stew-pan, set them to braise gently with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid of the pan : about forty minutes will suffice to do them. Then remove the paper, and after drying the larding in the oven for a minute or two, glaze the chickens nicely, dish them up, garnish with a border of rice croquettes formed in the shape of eggs, sauce round with some Madeira sauce, and serve. Chicken a 1’Africaine Prepare the chickens in the same way as for h la Cardinal, and detach the skins in the same manner; fill up the interstices between the skin and fillets with some force-meat of fowl; the chickens must then be trussed as for boiling, and after being covered with thin layers of fat bacon, should be braised, and when done, dished up side by side. Garnish with alternate groups of very small quenelles, half of which must be coloured with chopped truffles and the remainder with lobster coral; sauce with a Financiere ragofit (see p. 44), in a Poivrade sauce, and serve. Chicken a la Turque These must be trussed, boiled, and dished up as usual; they should then be garnished with a close border of rice boiled in stock with a little saffron and cayenne pepper; pour a lightly seasoned Curry sauce (see p. 12) over the chickens, and serve. Chicken a l’Espagnole Truss two spring chickens as for boiling, then take a deep fricandeau pan, spread it thickly with butter, and lay in circular order half-a-dozen pieces of raw ham cut in the shape and about289 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE twice the thickness of a crown-piece ; upon these place the chickens, and garnish with carrot, onion, bouquet garni, a clove of garlic, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; cover with a buttered paper and the lid, and then set them upon a moderate fire (with some live embers of charcoal upon the lid) to simmer for about forty minutes, taking care to turn the chickens occasionally in order that they may be equally coloured a light brown all over. This being done, the butter should be drained off from the chickens and the vegetables removed ; then add a glass of sherry or Madeira, two tablespoonfuls of Tomato sauce (see p. 7) and the same quantity of brown sauce, a small piece of glaze, lemon juice, and a little cayenne pepper. Let the whole simmer together on the fire for five minutes, then draw the strings from the chickens and dish them up; garnish with the pieces of ham placed alternately with a crofiton of the same shape; round these place four groups of Spanish peas (garbangas) boiled and peeled; pour the sauce over the chickens, and serve. In addition to the foregoing methods of dressing chickens for small Removes, Side Dishes, or Entries, they may also be served with rice, macaroni, nouilles, Oyster sauce, k l’Anglaise, k l’lvoire, k l’Estragon, etc., and indeed in every variety of form described for dressing capons. Fried Marinade of Chicken Roast a medium-sized chicken or fowl; when done, cut into neatly trimmed joints, and put these to steep for several hours in the following preparation:—Cut into thin slices a large onion, carrot, stick of celery, some parsley, and a clove of garlic, and put them into a saute-pan with two ounces of butter, a bay leaf, sprig of thyme, blade of mace, and four cloves; fry all these a light-brown colour, moisten with a glass of sherry and a tablespoonful of French vinegar, add a very little salt and a pinch of mignonette pepper, and allow the whole to simmer gently until the vegetables are thoroughly done ; the marinade must then be strained through a tammy with considerable pressure, in order to extract the flavour of all the ingredients. When about to send to table, drain the pieces of chicken, and afterwards dip them into some light batter, fry them in hot fat a golden colour, dish up on a napkin or fancy paper with fried parsley, and serve with some Italian, Piquante, Poivrade, Provengale, or Tomato sauce ; or some essence of anchovies (see p. 42), of truffles (see p. 40), of shalots (see p. 40), or of fine herbs (see p. 40) in a sauce-boat separately. Planked Chicken Split a plump spring chicken, flatten it a little, and dip in oil. Stew six mushrooms in a little stock. Heat the plank, put the chicken on it, boned side down, season with salt and pepper, and broil on the board under the gas or in a sharp oven for about forty minutes. Garnish with rice cooked in stock, the mushrooms, and guava jelly; at each side of the dish place two baked bananas, and serve. Note.—The following entrees are rather expensive, but with good u290 THE MODERN COOK management, much of the cost may be reduced by subsequently using the remains of the fowls here required in the preparation of a variety of other dishes, such as those comprised in the last section of entrees of poultry, and also for making galantines, ballotines, cutlets, croquettes, pies, etc. Supreme of Fillets of Fowls a l’Ecarlate Take out the fillets of two spring chickens in the following manner:—First slit the skin on the centre of the breast in a straight line, so that, by folding it down on both sides, the fillets will be left bare. Next draw the point of a knife along the edge of the breast- bone, cut through the centre of the merry-thought, and then remove the fillets by dividing them from the breast and ribs, carefully running the point of a knife close to the bones, while the fillet is held up with the fingers of the left hand so as to prevent the knife from injuring it. The fillets being thus removed entire, divide the small fillets from the large ones, and after the sinew which runs along these has been carefully extracted without tearing them, they should be trimmed and placed in a saute or stew-pan with some clarified butter, covered with a round piece of paper, and placed in the larder. The larger fillets must also be trimmed in the following manner:—Place the fillet upon the edge of the table, with the pointed end to the right and the smooth side downwards ; then bear moderately with the fingers of the left hand upon the pointed end of the fillet, and at the same time slip the edge of a sharp knife (dipped in water) into that part, and slide the knife under the hand, closely bearing towards the skin so as not to waste any more of the fillet than is positively necessary for the pur- pose of removing it; it must then be trimmed neatly round at the thick end, and nearly to a point at the thin end. The large fillets should now be arranged, all in the same direction, in a stew-pan with some clarified butter; then seasoned with a little salt, covered with a circular piece of buttered paper, and placed with the others. Care should be taken that if the large fillets incline from right to left when placed in the stew-pan, the small fillets should be curved in the opposite direction. When about to send to table, place the stew-pan containing the large fillets over the fire, and as soon as they become set and whitened on one side, turn them over immediately on the other, so that they do not brown; then quickly pour off all the fat, add a gill of Supreme sauce (see p. 10), and having tossed the fillets in it over the fire without allowing them to boil or simmer, dish in a close circle with a round scallop of red tongue (previously warmed in a little half-glaze for the purpose) between each of them; fill the centre with button-mushrooms tossed in a little of the sauce, place the smaller fillets, in a similar row to the others, upon the top of them; pour some Supreme sauce round the entree, and serve. Supreme of Fowl a la Toulouse Prepare the large fillets as before, and when the smaller ones have been trimmed, lard them closely and place them in a saut^-pan upon thin layers of fat bacon, in a curved form. A quarter of anCHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 291 hour before sending to table, finish the large fillets as in the previous recipe, substituting Allemande for Supreme sauce, and this should be incorporated with some reduced essence of fowl, a pat of butter, a little cream, and lemon juice. The larded fillets must be moistened with a little half-glaze, placed in the oven for about six minutes, and nicely glazed. Dish up the large fillets in a close circle with a crouton of bread, cut in the form of a deep crescent, fried in butter, and glazed; fill the centre with a ragofit of cocks’ combs and kernels tossed in some of the sauce; dress the larded fillets round the top of the others, pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Supreme of Fowl with Truffles Prepare this in the same way as on p. 290; decorate the small fillets with truffles, finish and dish up the entree as directed in that recipe, and fill the centre with pieces of truffles tossed in a small saute-pan with a little glaze and a very small piece of fresh butter; pour the Supreme sauce (see p. 10) round the base and on the fillets, and serve. Supreme of Fowl a la Parisienne Trim four or six large fillets of fowls, and decorate them with black truffles in the following manner:—First spread the bottom of a large saute-pan with fresh butter ; place the fillets therein, all curved in the same direction, with the smooth side uppermost. Next rub each fillet over slightly with a paste-brush dipped in slightly beaten white of egg; the truffles, after being first cut into thin slices, and stamped out with fancy cutters in various forms, should then be stuck upon this prepared surface, according to taste, forming stars, scrolls, palms, mosaics, etc. When all the fillets are decorated, brush over again with clarified butter; place a covering of buttered paper upon them, and set the saute-pan aside in the larder. The smaller fillets must also be decorated with red tongue, in the same way as the others. When about to send to table, simmer the fillets on both sides without browning; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle, placing a fillet of red tongue between each of the large fillets; next place the small fillets in a close border on the top of the inner edge of these, fill the centre with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce round the base of the entree, without in any way masking the decoration of the fillets, and serve. Supreme of Fowl a la Belle=Vue In this instance the fillets must be prepared and finished in exactly the same way as on p. 290 ■ but when dishing up, instead of the fillet of tongue, place between the fillets a slice of cucumber, prepared as follows:— Cut a medium, well - shaped cucumber into slanting pieces of about a quarter of an inch in thickness ; trim these neatly in an oval form, scooping out the seeds, and after having parboiled the rings in I salt and water, drain, and place them at the bottom of a stew-pan K292 THE MODERN COOK with a little butter; then proceed to fill up the centre of these with some quenelle force-meat of fowl mixed with some chopped and blanched parsley to colour it green; smooth the surfaces over, place a circular piece of buttered paper upon them, and poach them by pouring some boiling consomme in at the side of the stew-pan, so as not to disturb the rings. Let them simmer gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes, then carefully drain, lightly glaze, and use as directed above. Fill the centre of the entree with prepared slices of cucumber (see p. 33), previously tossed in some of the sauce; mask the fillets, without covering the cucumber, with some Supreme sauce, and serve. Suprgme of Fowl a la Perigord Prepare this according to the directions for Supreme a l’Ecarlate (see p. 290); the smaller fillets, however, must be decorated with black truffle. When about to send to table, dish up as usual in a close circle round the base of a fried ornamental croustade of bread, glued to the dish by means of a little flour paste; pour some Supreme sauce (see p. 10) over the plain fillets, and round the base of the entree, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a l’lndienne Trim the fillets of one or more fowls, and place them in a saute- pan with some clarified butter and a few thin slices of raw ham (previously soaked in water) cut in the shape and size of the fillets. When about to send to table, fry the fillets and the ham a light brown, pour off all the fat, then add a teaspoonful of glaze, a pat of fresh butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a little grated nutmeg; toss the whole together gently over the fire until mixed; dish them up, alternately placing a fillet, a piece of ham, and then a fried crouton of bread of the same shape. Pour three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce (see p. 3) into the saute-pan containing the fillets and ham, simmer this over the fire for five minutes, then pour it over the entree, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Marechale Trim the fillets of one or more fowls; make a slight incision down the centre of each fillet so as to hollow it out a little; then chop a truffle, one shalot, and a little parsley very finely, and simmer these for five minutes in a small stew-pan with a bit of butter, pepper and salt, nutmeg, and a small piece of glaze, add the yolk of an egg, and with this preparation fill the hollow made in the fillets, and then mask them over on both sides with a little stiffly-reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3). When this has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb the fillets twice over, having once after dipped them in beaten egg, and again after they have been sprinkled over with clarified butter; pat them gently into shape with the blade of a knife, and put on one side. Twenty minutes before sending to table, cover the gridiron with a piece of oiled paper, place the fillets upon this, and broil them (on both sides) over a clear fire a golden293 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE colour; when done, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some reduced essence of fowls under them, and serve. Note.—Fillets of fowl a la Marechale may also be served with every kind of delicate vegetable garnish, with White or Brown Italian sauce, with Marechale, Supreme, Venetian, Provengale, Perigueux, or Crayfish sauce, and also with either of the following essences: Anchovy, truffle, fine herbs, or shalot. Fillets of Fowl a la Valency Trim four to six fillets of fowl, and lay them flat upon a dish. Prepare three or four ounces of puree of truffles (see p. 30), in which incorporate a yolk of egg, and then spread this over the fillets on both sides; when the coating has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb the fillets over twice after they have been dipped once in egg, and the second time in clarified butter. Then place the fillets in a sautd-pan with some clarified butter; and when about to send to table, fry them a light colour on both sides, drain, and dish up closely in a circle; place the smaller fillets in a row upon the top of the inner edge of the others; fill the centre with slices of truffles, previously simmered in a little glaze and a small piece of butter; pour some Supreme sauce (see p. 10) under the entrde, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Royale Trim the fillets of one or more fowls, then closely lard one half of them, and decorate the rest with black truffle in the same way as described for fillets a la Parisienne (see p. 291); place these fillets in separate saute-pans, the larded ones upon thin layers of fat bacon, and moistened with some half-glaze, and the decorated fillets with two ounces of clarified butter. Just before sending to table, put both in the oven for about five minutes; then withdraw the decorated fillets, glaze the larded ones, put them back for two minutes, and glaze again. Dish up, placing alternately a larded fillet with a decorated one; fill the centre with a ragout of pieces of fat livers and truffles tossed in a little Allemande sauce; pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Fowl a la Financiere Cut out the fillets of one or more fowls, with the pinion-bones left adhering, trim them in the usual way, and lard closely; then place in a stew-pan upon thin layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some strong consomme, and braise in the oven or else over the fire, covered with a lid containing some live embers of charcoal,1 for about ten minutes; they must next be glazed, placed in the oven to dry the larding, and then glazed a second time. The fillets must then be dished up, and arranged in their natural order; that is, the right- 1 When cooked in the oven no charcoal embers are needed.THE MODERN COOK 294 hand fillets to the right, and the left-hand to the left. Fill the centre with a rich Financiere ragout (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Note.—Fillets of fowls, larded and prepared as the foregoing, may also be served with purees of endive, green peas, asparagus, k la Macedoine, with stewed peas, slices of cucumbers, asparagus peas, etc. Fillets of Fowl a la d’Uxelles Trim the fillets of one or more fowls. Cover with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), over which, when it has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb twice—once after dipping the fillets in beaten egg, and the second time in clarified butter. They must then be gently patted into shape with the blade of a knife, and placed in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the fillets on both sides a golden colour, then drain, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with button-mushrooms tossed in a little Allemande sauce (see p. 3), pour some half-glaze under the fillets, and serve. Chicken Quenelles a 1’Essence Prepare three-quarters of a pound of quenelle force-meat (see p. 59) with some fillets of fowl, in which should be incorporated half a gill of reduced Allemande sauce ; this should then be moulded into quenelles in the following manner First, take up as much of the force-meat as will fill a silver tablespoon, smooth it over the top in a dome-like form with the blade of a knife dipped in hot water; next, with another spoon of the same size and shape, which must be dipped in hot water, scoop the quenelle out of the spoon, and lay it upon its under side at the bottom of a deep saute-pan, previously spread with butter for the purpose ; repeat this until the whole of the force-meat is used up, and then place a covering of buttered paper over them, and pour sufficient boiling consomme in at the side of the stew-pan to float the quenelles. About ten minutes’ gentle simmer- ing by the side of the fire will suffice to cook them ; they must then be drained with care, and dished up in a close circle; pour some bright consomme of fowl (boiled down to nearly the consistency of half-glaze) under them, and send to table. Note.—Quenelles of fowl prepared in this manner may also be served with the following sauces: Supreme, Italian, Perigueux, Allemande, Bechamel, and Richelieu. Chicken Quenelles a la Toulouse For this entrde it will be necessary, when about to mould the quenelles, first to shake some flour over a slab or table, and then to take up six tablespoonfuls of the force-meat and drop them separately upon the slab; next shake a little flour over them, and proceed to roll each into the form of an egg; these must then be placed in rows in a deep saute-pan (previously spread with butter), not touching each295 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE other, after which pour in some boiling stock, and set them by the side of the fire to poach. When the quenelles are done, drain them, trim neatly, still retaining their oval shape, and place one half of them in a saute-pan with a little white consomme ; bread-crumb the remainder, first masking them over with a coating of Allemande sauce. When about to send to table, fry the bread-crumbed quenelles a golden colour in hot fat, and having warmed the plain ones and drained them, dish up the entree, alternately placing one of each sort of quenelle; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Chicken Quenelles a la Marechale Prepare the quenelles as in the previous recipe ; shape them in the form of cutlets, oval, oblong, circular, or like a heart, taking care not to make them more than a quarter of an inch thick. When they have been poached and trimmed, place upon a dish, and mask over with some Allemande sauce; when this has become firmly set upon the quenelles by cooling, bread-crumb them over twice in the usual way, dipping once in egg and the second time in clarified butter. They must then be broiled upon oiled paper, and when a light colour on one side, great care must be taken in turning them over so that they may be equally broiled on the other. When done, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with Allemande or Supreme sauce, or with essence of fowl, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Richelieu Prepare half a pound of chicken quenelle force-meat in the usual manner (see p. 59), form this into eight or ten flat oblong quenelles, and poach them carefully in stock, as before directed ; when this is done, drain them, and after making an opening on the surface, care- fully scoop out the inside of the quenelles to the depth of two-thirds of their thickness, and fill this cavity with the following preparation : —Cut an onion into very small dice, and fry lightly in a small saute- pan with a little butter ; then add a tablespoonful of truffles, also cut into very small dice, and some mushrooms in the same manner ; add a tablespoonful of Allemande sauce, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and a small piece of glaze; stir the whole over the fire for five minutes, and then use as directed above. When the preparation with which the quenelles have been filled has cooled, spread a layer of force-meat over each ; then place them in a saute-pan with a little butter, rub them over carefully with a paste-brush dipped in white of egg, and decorate with truffle and tongue. When about to send to table, poach the boudins by pouring some boiling consomme round them, taking care not to disturb the decoration; when they have been allowed to simmer gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes, drain, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle ; pour some Richelieu ragofit (see p. 47) under them, and serve. Note.—This entree may also be served with a pur£e of mush- rooms, truffles, or with scallops of fat livers.2g6 THE MODERN COOK Boudins of Chicken a la Perigueux These must be prepared, in the first instance, in the same manner as before : after the centre has been scooped out, the cavity should be filled up with some puree of truffles (see p. 30); then the boudins must be dosed in with a thin coating of the force-meat, and after being rubbed over with a paste-brush, and dipped in some beaten white of egg, should be sprinkled over with some black truffles chopped very fine, poached, and afterwards dished up in a close circle. Pour some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) under them, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Sefton Prepare half a pound of force-meat in the usual way, and before using it, incorporate about two tablespoonfuls of puree of mushrooms (see p. 30); divide the force-meat into three equal parts, roll these, with the aid of a little flour shaken over them, into square or oblong shapes,1 measuring about six inches in length ; place in a deep saute- pan, previously spread with butter, and poach as directed in former recipes; when done, drain, dish up in the form of an angle or in a row side by side; garnish with a white Financibre ragofit (see p. 44), and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la d’Artois Prepare about twelve small oval or oblong flat quenelles of force- meat of fowl, and when they have been poached, drained, trimmed, and scooped out as directed for the quenelles it la Richelieu, fill the cavities with a salpicon2 composed of chopped truffles, mushrooms, and red tongue mixed with a little reduced Allemande sauce; spread a thin layer of force-meat over the surface, bread-crumb the boudins carefully, and place them with this side uppermost in a saute-pan with clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the boudins lightly on both sides, drain upon a sheet of paper, glaze lightly, and then dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44) in some Madeira sauce (see p. 4), pour some of the sauce round the base, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Soubise First prepare half a pound of force-meat with some fillets of fowl (see p. 59), and when finishing this, instead of sauce, add two tablespoonfuls of puree of onions (see p. 29); form this force-meat into about twelve small oblong quenelles, by rolling them in a little flour: then cut each of these in two lengthwise, spread out the sides of these halves a little with the point of a knife, and then insert between them a small portion of salpicon, prepared as for the 1 There are fancy copper or tin moulds made for this purpose. 2 Salpicon means, literally, anything savoury—such as truffles, tongue, mushrooms, sweetbreads, poultry, or game—that has undergone the process of mincing prepara- tory to being mixed with some Bechamel, Allemande, or Espagnole sauce ; to be afterwards used for such purposes as the above, and also for filling patties.297 CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE boudins k la d’Artois ; this, after being spread out to the thickness of rather less than a quarter of an inch, and allowed to become cold and firm, must then be cut up into small strips or bands for the purpose of inserting between the two halves of the quenelles or boudins ; the sides of these should then be securely closed in, and patted smooth all over with the blade of a knife dipped in flour. Then place in a sautd-pan previously spread with butter. Pour some boiling stock round the boudins, and poach them in the usual way; then drain, trim, and egg and bread-crumb them, and place them carefully in a saute-pan with some clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the boudins lightly, glaze, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with some Soubise sauce (see p. 29), pour some half- glaze or essence of fowl under the entree, and serve. Boudins of Chicken a la Reine Roast a small fowl, remove all the brown skin, cut off all the meat from the bones, and use the latter to make some essence with. Chop the meat finely, and then pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a large tablespoonful of reduced Bechamel sauce ; season with a little pepper and salt and grated nutmeg, and rub the whole through a very fine wire-sieve; put this purtie into a small stew-pan, and after adding half a gill of cream and a small piece of glaze, stir it over the fire until the whole is mixed, and spread this preparation on a dish, in a square form about two inches in thickness, and leave to get cold. Then cut the square into two oblong pieces, and divide these again, each into about four small oblong slices. Spread each of these over with a thin coating of some very delicate force-meat of fowl; flour them over, dip them separately in beaten egg, bread-crumb them, and set them on a dish in the larder until dinner-time. The boudins must then be placed in the frying-basket, plunged in some hot fat, and fried a light golden colour. Drain, and dish up in a close circle, with some Bechamel or Supreme sauce poured under them, and send to table. Bouchees of Chicken a la Pompadour Prepare about half a pound of very delicate force-meat with some fillets of fowl ; when finished, incorporate two tablespoonfuls of puree of mushrooms made with double cream (see p. 30). Form this into about twelve small oval or circular flat quenelles or boudins, about a third of an inch in thickness; place them in a buttered saute-pan, and slightly poach—that is, let them be only partly cooked; drain, and place them on a dish, covered over with a sheet of buttered paper, and put them in the larder until dinner-time. The bouchees should then be dipped in some very light batter, and fried in plenty of hot fat; they must then be dished up in circular order and the centre filled either with stewed peas, asparagus peas, or pur£e, a Macedoine of summer vegetables, Poivrade or Tomato sauce. If garnished with dressed vegetables, some essence of fowl should be poured round the base of the entree.298 THE MODERN COOK Chicken Roulettes a la Duchesse Prepare an unsweetened choux paste, work it rather stiffly, spread it on to oblong pieces of buttered paper of even size, and poach in slightly salted water in a saute-pan or baking-tin. Have ready a rich chicken farce and some spinach puree, spread a thin layer of each on the poached paste, roll up, and arrange in a buttered saute-pan. Pour over a little stock, cover, and cook for about twenty minutes in the oven. Butter the inside of an oblong Neapolitan mould, and spread it thickly with chicken farce; put some seasoned spinach puree in the centre, and fill up the mould with chicken farce. Stand it in a pan half filled with water, cover with buttered paper, and cook for twenty minutes. Heat up half a pint of Supreme sauce and colour with enough spinach puree to give it a light-green tint, or, if preferred, use tomato puree to render the sauce a red tint. Unmould the border on to a hot dish, arrange the cooked roulettes in the centre, sprinkle with a little grated Parmesan cheese, and sauce over carefully with the prepared sauce. Place in a sharp oven for a few minutes, and send to table. Palmettes of Chicken a la Valoise One large plump fowl, 2 oz. butter, \ gill stock, \ gill cream, | gill Bechamel sauce, seasoning, 2 whites of eggs, ilr gills white Chaudfroid sauce, meat glaze, 8 oblong flat souffle cases. Remove the fillets from the fowl, free them from skin, etc., flatten them, season, and fry lightly in butter in a saute-pan. Add the stock, place a buttered paper over, and poach in the oven for ten minutes. Take up, drain, and press the fillets. With the remainder of the fowl prepare a light souffle farce, using the cream, Bechamel sauce, whites of eggs (previously whisked), and seasoning. Put this in a buttered plain mould (flat shape), and cook in a bain-marie in the oven. When done, unmould and let cool. Cut the chicken fillets into the shape of the paper cases; cut the chicken souffle in similar style, and sandwich them together with a little dissolved meat glaze. Mask each carefully with white Chaudfroid sauce, and decorate afterwards with thinly-cut fanciful slices of truffle and tarragon leaves. Place a little small cress or other salad, previously seasoned, in each of the cases; dress the palmettes upon this, dish up, and serve. The appearance of the palmettes is greatly improved by coating them when finished with a thin layer of half-set aspic. Galantine of Chicken Legs a la Financiere The legs must be cut from the carcases of two or more fowls with the whole of the skin from the back left on; then bone these entirely without dividing the leg, or, as is commonly called, the drum-stick part. The feet should be cut with part of the leg-bones left on, scalded, and the outer skin carefully removed, without tearing them; trim these neatly, leaving only part of the claws in, and stick them into the small aperture of the legs, whence the drum-stick bonesCHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 299 have been removed: when properly done, this gives them a neat and plump appearance. They must then be spread out upon the table, seasoned with pepper and salt, and about a dessertspoonful of force- meat, in which has been mixed some fine herbs, placed in the centre ; a large needle and some coarse thread should be used to draw the skinny part of the legs up into a purse, and must then be fastened to secure them in shape. The galantines must next be larded closely on the plump part of the thigh, in the same manner as a sweetbread, and then placed in a deep stew-pan, the bottom of which should be strewn with sliced carrot, onion, and celery, and a bouquet garni, and covered with some thin layers of fat bacon, upon which the galantines are to be placed. Moisten with sufficient consomme or stock to reach nearly up to the larding; place a buttered paper on the top, cover, and leave to braise gently for about half an hour over a moderate fire or else in the oven, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When done, remove the lid and the paper, and put them in the oven for a couple of minutes to dry the larding; then glaze nicely, drain, and dish up in a close circle similarly to cutlets; fill the centre with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Note.—Galantines prepared in this manner may also be served with endive, sorrel, puree of green peas or asparagus, stewed peas, or h la Macedoine. Galantine of Chicken Legs a la Jardiniere In. this case the legs of two or more fowls should be entirely laid open with the knife and all the bones removed; they must then be spread out upon the table, seasoned with pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of force-meat, mixed with fine herbs, placed in the centre of each ; then sew them up in an oblong or oval form, and place them in a stew-pan on a bed of sliced carrot, onion, and celery, covered with thin layers of fat bacon, and braise as directed in the previous recipe. When the galantines are done, put them in press between two dishes until cold; they should then be trimmed and placed in a stew-pan with a little consomme, and covered with a buttered paper. When about to send to table, put the galantines in the oven to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; then glaze and dish up in a close circle with a braised lettuce, nicely trimmed (see p. 39), placed in between each ; fill the centre with a Jardiniere (see p. 167), pour some half-glaze or Espagnole sauce round the base of the entree, and serve. Minced and Grilled Fowl Cut off the legs of a roast fowl, trim and score them over on both sides, and season them with pepper and salt; then cut the meat of the breast, etc., into fine shreds, and put this into a small stew-pan with a little Bechamel sauce. When about to send to table, broil the legs of fowl over a clear fire, glaze them, and having previously warmed the mince, pour it out into the centre of the dish, place the legs upon it, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 3°° Another Method Trim the legs and mince the flesh as before. Next put an ounce of fresh butter in a small stew-pan over the fire to melt, add a tablespoonful of flour, and stir these together for two minutes; then add about a gill of broth, and the same proportion of cream or milk; season with pepper and salt, grated nutmeg, and a small piece of glaze; stir this sauce on the fire, keep it boiling for ten minutes, and then add it to the minced chicken. In all other respects, serve this entree in the same way as the previous recipe. Minced Chicken and Poached Eggs Cut up all the white meat of half a roast or boiled fowl into shreds, or mince finely, and put these into a small stew-pan with half a pint of good Bechamel sauce; when about to send to table, warm the mince, dish it up, and place four poached eggs round it with a fried crouton of bread in between each egg; pour a little white sauce round the entree, and serve. Minced Chicken with Macaroni In this case cut half a cooked chicken in small thin slices, and mix with a gill of Bechamel; when about to dish up, first place some macaroni (dressed with grated Parmesan cheese and a little Bechamel sauce) round the bottom of the dish in the form of a border, and put the mince in the centre piled up like a cone; pour a little white sauce round the entree, and serve. Minced Chicken with Rice Prepare the mince as before. Put four ounces of Carolina rice, after it has been well washed, into a stew-pan with a pat of butter and a pint of stock, a little salt and mignonette pepper; place over a slow fire to boil very gently until the grains are quite soft, and all the moisture is absorbed; then add the yolk of an egg, and a good tablespoonful of white sauce; mould the rice with a wooden spoon, then fill a buttered circular border mould with it, and turn it out upon a dish; fill the centre with the mince, and serve. Minced Fowl au Gratin Cut the meat off the breast and other white parts of half a roast or boiled fowl, and chop either into shreds or larger slices; put these into a small stew-pan with a gill of Allemande sauce, a dessert- spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, a small piece of glaze and a tablespoonful of cream; toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed, and then place the scallops in the dish, piled up in a dome; cover this entirely with a coating of fried bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese, in the proportion of two-thirds of the former with one-third of the latter; sprinkle a very little clarified butter over the surface, place round the entree a border of neatly cut fancy crofitons of bread, or croquettes of rice, or fried potatoes, and then put it into the oven for about ten minutes, taking care that it does not get burnt. Pour some Bechamel sauce round the base of the entree, and serve.CHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 3°i Kromeskis of Chicken a la Russe Cut the fillets of half a roast fowl into very small neat dice, and put them on a plate with a tablespoonful of mushrooms and truffles, also cut into small dice. Stir a good gill of Bechamel or Allemande sauce over the fire until stiffly reduced, and then throw in the minced chicken, etc., mix the whole well together, spread it out upon a dish about an inch thick, and leave to get cold. Next cut this preparation into small pieces somewhat in the form of a common cork, and place them on a dish; they must then be dipped in some light batter, and fried crisp in plenty of hot fat. Dish up with fried parsley in the centre, and serve immediately. Chicken Croquettes with Mushrooms The mince for these is prepared in the same way as for Kromeskis, and when it has become cold, must be cut up in pieces about the size of a plover’s egg, and rolled in bread-crumbs, either in the form of corks, pears, or very small cutlets; they must next be dipped in beaten egg and bread-crumbed a second time; roll them smooth, and if they have been shaped like pears, a stalk of green parsley should be stuck into each to imitate the stalks of pears. Just before sending to table, fry the croquettes a golden colour in hot fat, dish up on a napkin or fancy paper with fried parsley, and serve. Chicken Myice or Salpicon for Patties Cut the fillets of half a roast fowl into small dice, then take two dozen mushrooms, one truffle, and a small piece of red tongue and cut these also in a similar way; mix all these with the fowl, add a good gill of sauce, either Bechamel, Allemande, or Espagnole, and use this mixture for filling patties, or croustades. Fillets of Fowl a la Victoria (Cold) Prepare the fillets of a young fowl as for a Supreme (see p. 290); simmer, drain, and put them in press between two dishes; when cold, trim them neatly, dip each fillet either in some Supreme (see p. 10) or Bechamel sauce (see p. 3) mixed with one-fourth part of dissolved aspic jelly, place them with the smoothest side uppermost in a dish or saute-pan, and set them on ice. Next cover the bottom of a large saut£-pan with some dissolved aspic jelly, to the depth of about the eighth of an inch ; when this has become firm, by cooling, place the fillets upon it in circular order, and decorate the upper part of each with black truffles; the fillets must then be covered with a little bright aspic jelly, to produce the same thickness upon the upper surface as the under. While this is going on, a border of vegetables should be prepared as follows:—First cut some carrots and turnips with vegetable cutters, as for a chartreuse, and boil them separately; prepare also some French beans or asparagus-heads, and green peas, which, when boiled, must be used to ornament a border mould in exactly the same manner as a chartreuse: taking care that each piece of vegetable must be first dipped in some aspic jelly previous toTHE MODERN COOK 3°2 its being placed in the mould. When the mould is lined, the centre must be filled up with some sort of vegetables cut smaller, and tossed in aspic jelly seasoned with a little mignonette pepper and salt, and a very little salad oil and tarragon vinegar; the mould must then be set on ice until quite firm. The border should then be turned out upon a dish, and the fillets of fowls (previously stamped out with a cutter dipped in hot water) must be placed on the top of the border, in circular order, each one overlapping the other; fill the centre of the entree with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) tossed in a little glaze and aspic jelly; garnish with bold croutons of jelly, and serve. Chicken en Belle-Vue (Cold) Truss a chicken or fowl for boiling, and braise it in white stock in the usual manner; when done, let it get cold, and mask it com- pletely with some reduced Bechamel sauce, in which should be mixed a fourth part of dissolved aspic jelly. Previous to saucing the chicken, the Bechamel must be stirred in a stew-pan surrounded by crushed ice until it just begins to get firm; it should then be immediately poured over the chicken; decorate the breasts with black truffles or red tongue, and place upon a dish; ornament by placing a roll of chopped aspic jelly round, then outside this seme bold croutons of aspic jelly, and serve. Mayonnaise of Chicken Cut the breasts from two lightly roasted chickens and cut them each into three equal-sized pieces. Dust these with seasoning, con- sisting of three parts salt and one part paprika, and a little nutmeg ground very fine, and squeeze a little lemon juice over them and put them on the ice. Prepare a decorated aspic border containing as its base some finely shredded lettuce mixedpvith Mayonnaise sauce. Prepare some Mayonnaise sauce into which a third part double cream has been incorporated, and some aspic jelly or a little gelatine, so that it will not run off the pieces of chicken. Mask the latter with the prepared sauce, and let stand for ten minutes. In the meantime prepare a nice lettuce salad with quarters of hard-boiled eggs, dressed with Mayonnaise sauce and double cream mixed in equal proportion. Set this in the ice to get thoroughly cold. About twenty minutes before serving turn the mould out on to a dish, fill the centre with the salad, and place the pieces of chicken neatly on the top, garnish with sprigs of tarragon and croutons of aspic jelly, and place again in the ice until ready to serve. Chicken Salad Roast a chicken, and when cold cut it up into small joints, remove the skin, trim them neatly, and steep them in a basin with a little oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Prepare a decorated aspic border, as directed in the preceding recipe; when this has been turned out on a dish, pile up the pieces of chicken in the centre upon some shred lettuces in a conical form; mask them with someCHICKEN AS REMOVE OR ENTREE 303 white Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 23), garnish with lettuce-hearts and quarters of egg boiled hard, or with plovers’ eggs; crown the Mayonnaise with some chopped aspic, or a crouton of set aspic jelly. Aspic of Fowl a la Reine Roast a fowl, and use the flesh to make some puree a la Reine (see p. 297); mix this with about half a pint of good Bechamel sauce (see p. 3) and about one-third part of dissolved aspic jelly (see p. 24), and work the whole well together in a stew-pan upon some rough ice. While this is going on, a plain round or oval mould should be decorated with black truffles and red tongue, in the following manner:—First place the mould in some crushed ice, then pour about a tablespoonful of bright aspic jelly over the bottom, and when this has become set, place over it a bold decoration, formed with leaves, rings, dots, crescents, etc., cut out of truffles and tongue, and arranged so as to represent a circular wreath, with a star or scroll in the centre. Decorate the sides of the mould in the same manner, dipping each piece of the decoration in a little melted aspic jelly, to make it stick to the mould; when the decoration is completed, fill the mould up with the prepared purde, and embed the mould in ice to set the aspic. When firm, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, withdraw it quickly, wipe it with a clean cloth, and turn it out upon a dish. Garnish with a roll of chopped aspic jelly, place some croutons round the base, and serve. Note.'—The above may be made also with pheasant, partridge, or . any other kind of game. Galantine of Chicken with Aspic Chop up six ounces of veal, with the same quantity of fat bacon, and season with chopped mushrooms, parsley, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and aromatic seasoning (see p. 391); when these are chopped quite fine, pound the whole in a mortar, with the yolk of an egg, and put the force-meat into a basin. Peel two ounces of truffles, and cut some slices of red tongue and about four ounces of fat bacon into long narrow fillets, about a quarter of an inch square. Next bone a fine chicken, and draw the skin from the legs and pinions, inside; then spread the bird out, and with a sharp knife pare off some part of the fillets, to cover the thinner parts of the skin; season slightly with pepper, salt, and aromatic spices; spread a layer of the prepared force-meat, about an inch thick, then place the fillets of tongue and bacon upon this, about an inch apart, and insert rows of truffles between these; after which spread another layer of force-meat over the whole, then repeat the tongue and truffles, and so on, until a sufficient quantity of both has been placed in the chicken. It must then be sewn up the back, placed upon a cloth, rolled up tightly, and fastened at each end with string; thus giving to the galantine the appearance of a cushion. Then put into an oval braise-pan with the carcase and any trimmings of veal or poultry that may be at hand, a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a bouquet garni, two bay leaves, sweet basil andTHE MODERN COOK 3°4 thyme, a blade of mace, and six peppercorns ; moisten the galantine with enough white stock to cover it, and put on the fire to boil; it must then be placed on a very slow fire, or in the oven, to continue gently simmering (not boiling) for about two hours and a half. It should then be removed from the fire, and put in press between two dishes with a heavy weight upon it. Strain the stock, remove all fat from the surface, and clarify it in the usual manner, then pass it through a jelly-bag, and set on ice to become firm. When cold, the galantine must then be glazed, and placed upon a dish. Decorate with aspic jelly, and serve. Note.—Galantines of turkeys, geese, capons, fowls, pheasants, partridges, etc., are made in the same way as the above. ENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS Pigeons a la Gauthier Procure two young fat pigeons, draw, singe, and truss them with their legs thrust inside. Put two ounces of butter into a small stew-pan with the juice of half a lemon, a little mignonette pepper, and salt; place this over the fire, and when the butter is melted, put the pigeons in with a bunch of herbs, cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon and a circular piece of buttered paper, and leave to simmer very gently on a slow fire for about twenty minutes, when they will be done. The pigeons must then be drained until all the fat has been absorbed, then place them on a dish with a large quenelle of fowl (decorated with truffles) in between each pigeon; pour some of the sauce over and round the pigeons, and serve. Pigeons a la Crapaudine Cut two pigeons in halves, lengthwise through the breast; flatten each of these with a cutlet bat, and then remove the bones from the breasts and legs; season with pepper and salt, and simmer them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter over the fire until they become partly set; then put in press between two dishes, and when cold, bread-crumb twice—first, after being dipped in beaten egg, and the second time in clarified butter. When about to send to table, broil the pigeons over a clear fire; glaze, and dish up, pour some Poivrade sauce over (see p. 8), and serve. Pigeons a la Duchesse Remove the bones entirely from two or more young pigeons; stuff them with some quenelle force-meat of veal mixed with two tablespoonfuls of sauce and some chopped mushrooms; sew up neatly so as to give an appearance of plumpness; put them in a stew-pan with some white stock, and braise very gently over a slow fire for about twenty minutes ; then remove on to a dish and allow to become partially cold; the pigeons should then be covered all over with a thin coating of reduced Allemande sauce, and when this is become set by cooling, roll them first in bread-crumbs, then dipENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS 3°5 them in beaten egg and bread-crumb them over again, and put on one side. About twenty minutes before dinner-time, place the pigeons carefully in a frying-basket and plunge them in hot fat; when a light golden colour, drain well to absorb all fat. Then pile up some Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) in the centre of the dish, place the pigeons round this in circular order, with the breasts resting on the bottom of the dish; pour some Allemande or Bechamel sauce round the entree, and serve. Pigeons a la Seville These are prepared, in the first instance, in the same way as the previous recipe, excepting that they must be braised in some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and they should be also covered with thin layers of fat bacon and only moistened to half their depth ; braise them gently for about twenty minutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When the pigeons are done, drain, and dish up with their backs resting up against a small croustade of fried bread, previously made fast to the bottom of the dish ; garnish with a Spanish ragout. The ragout above alluded to consists of small truffles, carrots, pieces of ham, mushrooms, and a few boiled garbanqas or yellow peas ; these must be first slightly fried in a little oil, and a tablespoonful of Tomato sauce, a glass of Malaga or Madeira, with a pinch of crushed pimientos and a piece of glaze added ; simmer the whole together over a slow fire until the carrots are done; then skim off all the fat, add half a pint of finished Espagnole sauce and two or three cloves of garlic, previously boiled in water ; the ragout must be allowed to boil gently by the side of the fire for five minutes longer; then, after it has been skimmed, add the juice of half a lemon, and use as directed. Pigeons au Gratin Remove all the bones from three young pigeons, then make some force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61) and stuff the pigeons with.this ; they must next be trussed, and gently braised for about a quarter of an hour in a small quantity of liquor, after this removed on to a dish and left to get cold. Make a circular case of stout paper, oil it over, and place it in the oven for a few minutes to make it firm ; line this case with some of the force-meat, and place the pigeons in it in neat order ; fill up the cavities with the remainder of the force-meat, cover over with very thin layers of fat bacon, and then set the case in the oven to bake for about half an hour. The bacon must then be removed, and all the fat absorbed by gently pressing a clean cloth upon it, and then the case put on a dish ; pour some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) round the entree, and serve. Pigeons a la Maintenon Split two young pigeons lengthwise, flatten and bone them, and then season with pepper and salt; fry them in a stew-pan with a little butter, some chopped mushrooms, parsley, and two shalots, and when done, add a gill of Allemande sauce, a little essence of mush- xTHE MODERN COOK 3° 6 rooms, grated nutmeg, and lemon juice; simmer the whole together for five minutes, and allow to get almost cold. Next trim off the corners from as many sheets of note-paper as there are pieces of pigeon, and after the paper has been oiled over, place the pigeons in them, dividing the sauce equally ; twist the edges of the paper neatly and firmly so as to secure the sauce from oozing out, and broil over a moderate fire ; dish up in close circular order upon a napkin or fancy dish paper, and send to table with some Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) separately in a boat. Compote of Pigeons with Mushrooms Truss and then braise three pigeons with a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon. Peel two tablespoonfuls of button-onions, and after they have been parboiled in water, drain and fry them in a little butter over a slow fire without browning; they must then be drained, and afterwards placed in a small stew-pan with a dozen mushrooms, and the bacon cut up in square dice. With the stock from the pigeons, make a pint of brown sauce, and as soon as it has been sufficiently worked, add this as well as a glass of white wine to the onions, etc., and set the whole to boil very gently by the side of the fire for about ten minutes ; then skim off the fat, and place this ragout in a stew-pan with the pigeons. When about to send to table, make the compote hot, dish up the pigeons with a crouton of fried bread between each, put the pieces of bacon in the cavities formed between the pigeons, group the mushrooms and onions in the centre, pour the sauce over, and serve. Compote of Pigeons with Peas Truss three pigeons as for boiling. Parboil a quarter of a pound of streaky bacon in water for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into rather large dice-shaped pieces ; put into a medium-sized stew- pan, and fry a light golden colour over the fire, remove on to a plate, and then put in the pigeons and fry until nicely browned, and place them with the bacon. Next add two tablespoonfuls of flour to the fat in the stew-pan, and stir this roux over the fire until slightly coloured, then gradually mix in with it a pint of stock; stir the sauce over the fire until it boils, add the pigeons, bacon, half a pint of green peas, a bouquet garni, and a little mignonette pepper, and keep the compote gently boiling by the side of the fire for about three- quarters of an hour ; then skim off all the fat and remove the herbs; allow the sauce to boil briskly on the fire, stirring it the while until reduced to its proper consistency, and then pour it over the compote. When about to send to table, make the compote quite hot, and dish up as previously directed. Fillets of Pigeons a la Villeroi Fillet three pigeons, remove the thin skin from them, and also the sinew from the under fillet, which must, however, be left adhering to the upper; flatten them slightly with a small cutlet bat or the handle of a knife dipped in water, and trim them; thenENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS 3°7 cover entirely with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), and when this has become firmly set upon the fillets by cooling, they should be bread-crumbed twice—once after being dipped in beaten egg, and then after being dipped in clarified butter. Use the bones from the legs to imitate the bones of cutlets, and place the fillets carefully in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter. Just before sending to table, fry the fillets lightly on both sides, drain them on paper, glaze lightly, and dish up in a close circle ; fill the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables, asparagus peas, French beans, or stewed peas; pour some bright half-glaze (made from the carcases of the pigeons) round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Pigeons a la Borghese Trim the fillets of two or more pigeons, insert the cutlet-bone in each, as in the previous recipe, and put them on a dish; next bone the carcases of the pigeons, remove the skin and sinews from the flesh, and make some quenelle force-meat (see p. 59). Season the fillets of pigeons with a little pepper and salt, and neatly mask them over with a coating of the force-meat, thus increasing their size about one-half; cover the bottom of a stew-pan with some clarified butter, put in the fillets, and cover them with some clarified butter, which, however, should not be poured over them until it has become nearly cold. About a quarter of an hour before sending to table, place the stew-pan upon a rather brisk fire, and allow the fillets to simmer quickly; and when done on both sides, drain, and glaze them brightly; dish up in close circular order, in the same way as cutlets, pour some Madeira sauce (see p. 4) round the base of the entree, and serve. Fillets of Pigeons a la Bourguignote Prepare these in the same way as before, and when about to send to table, simmer them briskly over the fire, and when done, drain, glaze, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a Bourguignote ragout (see p. 45), pour some of the sauce round the entree, and serve. Fillets of Pigeons a l’Allemande Prepare these exactly as before, and when the fillets have been well simmered, so as to become firmly set before being cooked through, they must be immediately removed on to a dish, and after being dipped in some light batter, should be fried crisp in hot fat; when done, drain, and dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a puree of green peas, artichokes, or asparagus, with either a Jardiniere or Macedoine, stewed peas or dressed young Windsor beans; pour some bright half-glaze (made from the carcases) under the entree, and serve. Duck a la Macedoine Truss a duck for boiling, and put into an oval stew-pan with a carrot, an onion, two cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with a quart of white stock, cover with an oval piece of well-buttered paper,THE MODERN COOK 3°8 place the lid on the stew-pan, and set it on the fire to boil; then put some live embers on the lid, and remove the duck to the side of the stove to braise gently for about an hour. When about to send to table, drain, remove the string, and dish up with alternate groups of a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35)—such as carrots and turnips cut in fancy shapes and nicely glazed, asparagus-heads, French beans, green peas, cauliflower, etc., as they may happen to be in season. Sauce the duck with some Allemande, and serve. Braised Duck with Turnips The duck should be trussed in the usual way, and placed in an oval stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with sufficient white stock to cover the duck, put a buttered paper over and boil gently on a slow fire for about an hour. Cut some turnips into fancy shapes, such as large olives, half-moons, etc., fry them in butter and a little sugar; when they are all equally browned, throw them into a stew-pan containing about a pint of Espagnole sauce, with the addition of some of the stock the duck is braised in. Allow the turnips to boil very gently by the side of the fire until done ; they must then be drained, their sauce clarified, skimmed, reduced to its proper consistency, and strained into a small stew-pan containing the turnips. Dish the duck up, place the turnips neatly round, pour the sauce over, and send to table. Braised Ducks with Stewed Peas Braise the ducks as directed in the foregoing recipe, and when done, dish up with stewed peas round them; sauce with a brown sauce in which some of the stock from the ducks has been reduced. They may also be prepared as follows:— Put two ounces of butter in a stew-pan on the fire : when melted, add two dessertspoonfuls of flour, and stir this over the fire until the roux becomes of a fawn colour; then add a quart of good stock or gravy, carefully working the whole while mixing. Stir this sauce on the fire, and when it boils, put the ducks trussed for boiling into it with a pint of young peas and a bouquet garni. Allow these to stew very gently by the side of the stove for about an hour; when the ducks are done, take them out of the sauce, skim off all the fat, remove the bunch of herbs; and if there is too much sauce, boil it down to its proper consistency, pour the peas and sauce over the ducks, previously dished up, and serve. Braised Ducks a la Provengale These should be braised as in the former recipes, and when dished up, garnished with the following preparation :— Cut two large onions into halves, remove the ends of these, and slice them up. Meanwhile heat a little salad oil in a frying-pan over the fire ; fry the onions in it a light-brown colour, carefully stirring them with the end of an iron skewer to avoid breaking the pieces. When the onions are done, drain them, and afterwards put them intoENTREES OF PIGEONS AND DUCKS 3°9 a small stew-pan with the juice of a lemon, a little mignonette pepper, and a piece of glaze about the size of a walnut, and set them on a slow fire to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour; add some finished Espagnole sauce in sufficient quantity for the purpose, boil the whole together, pour it round the ducks, and serve. This dish is sometimes called a la Lyonnaise. Duckling a la Rouennaise Truss a fat duckling as for boiling, put it in a stew-pan with about three ounces of streaky bacon (previously parboiled), a carrot, an onion, and a bouquet garni, and cover with thin layers of fat bacon and a round of buttered paper; moisten with a pint of white stock, and then leave to braise gently for about three-quarters of an hour. Cut four or five young turnips into the shape of large olives or half-moons, and fry these in a stew-pan with an ounce of clarified butter and a teaspoonful of castor sugar over the fire, until they brown slightly; then strain off the butter, and put the turnips into a smaller stew-pan containing half a pint of bright Espagnole sauce; add a little of the liquor from the duck to flavour them, and leave to boil gently by the side of the fire. When about to send to table, the duck may either be served whole, or cut up into small joints and neatly trimmed ; pile these in the same manner as for a fricassee, keeping the fillets and breasts for the top; garnish the entree with the turnips, place a border of slices of streaky bacon round, pour the sauce over the duck, and serve. Stewed Duckling with Olives Prepare a duckling as before, and when done, cut up into neatly trimmed small joints, consisting of two legs and two fillets with the pinions left on them ; then cut the breast into two pieces, and also the back; clarify the liquor used in the braising, and after it has been reduced by boiling to half-glaze, warm the pieces of duckling in it, and dish up as before directed; garnish with a ragout of olives, place the pieces of streaky bacon round, pour the sauce over the duckling, and serve. Duckling with Green Peas Prepare the duckling as directed in the previous recipes. Stew one pint of young peas (see p. 35), and finish them with a little of the glaze made from the liquor in which the duckling has been braised; the small joints of the duckling must also be warmed in some of the same glaze, and dished up in a pile upon some of the stewed peas ; garnish the base of the entree with the remainder ; place a row of the slices of streaky bacon upon these, pour some bright Espagnole sauce (see p. 3) over the entree, and serve. Fillets of Duckling a la Bigarade Draw and singe the duckling, and pick out any remaining feathers; then separate the breast from the legs and back by running the knife in just above the thighs and cutting through the upper part ofTHE MODERN COOK 3IQ the back under the wings; roast the carcase and use it for making the Bigarade sauce (see p. 9). Place the breast in a dish, season with a little mignonette pepper, salt, parsley, bay leaf, thyme, three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, and the juice of half a lemon, and allow it to steep in this for several hours; about three-quarters of an hour before dinner, place the whole of the seasoning upon the duckling, wrap it up in a sheet of oiled paper, and roast for about twenty minutes; at the end of that time remove the paper and seasoning, and allow the duckling to brown before serving. The fillets must then be taken out, slightly trimmed and scored, and placed in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze or some of the sauce, and allowed barely to simmer over the fire to warm; then dish up in a close circle with a fried crouton of bread between each fillet, pour the Bigarade sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Duckling a la Macedoine Prepare the duckling in the same manner as before: when the fillets are trimmed, place them in a stew-pan with some half-glaze made from the carcases, and when about to send to table, warm them without allowing them to boil, as that would make them tough; dish up in a close circle with a croilton of fried bread between each fillet, fill the centre with a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35), pour some bright half-glaze round, and serve. Salmi of Duckling Prepare the breasts of two ducklings and roast them as directed for Duckling a la Bigarade; cut them out, trim and score them, and place them in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze. Next roast the legs a light-brown colour, and when done break them up and put them into a stew-pan with a shalot, a few sprigs of parsley, a dozen peppercorns, some mushroom trimmings, a bay leaf, and sprig of thyme; moisten with a glass of claret or Sauterne wine, and leave the whole to boil very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; then strain off the liquor, add half a pint of this extract or essence to an equal proportion of Espagnole sauce, and mix in the ordinary manner; when the sauce has cleared by gentle boiling, and afterwards reduced to its proper consistency, strain it through a tammy into a bain-marie. When about to send to table, warm the fillets carefully, dish them up as in the former recipes, fill the centre with slices of truffles and mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and serve. Note.—In addition to the following methods for dressing ducklings for entrees, they may also, if intended to be served whole, be treated according to the directions for dressing ducks for removes and side- dishes ; for which see those recipes. Mousse of Duck Remove the flesh from a tender duck, free it from all skin and gristle, then pound in a mortar till quite smooth. Add gradually the whites of three eggs, also about half a gill of cold stock; season to taste with pepper, salt, and a little grated nutmeg, and rub throughENTREES OF QUAILS AND LARKS 311 a fine sieve. Whip up one gill of cream and mix carefully with the above. Decorate the bottom of a well-buttered* timbale or plain charlotte mould with slices of truffle, or sprinkle with finely chopped truffle ; three parts fill it with the above preparation, and steam gently for about an hour. Unmould on to a hot dish, garnish with sections of oranges peeled and freed from pips, and glace cherries. Serve with Rouennaise or any other good brown sauce. Sauce for Mousse of Duck Reduce half a pint of Espagnole sauce with one and a half gills of good gravy (made from the carcase of duck) strained and free from grease, allow to simmer about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper ; add one glass of sherry or Madeira, and finish with half an ounce of meat glaze. Pour this over and round the mousse of duck, and serve. ENTRIES OF QUAILS AND LARKS Quails with Stewed Peas Truss four to six quails in the same manner as chickens are trussed for boiling, put them into a sauffi-pan with two ounces of streaky bacon, and a bouquet garni in the centre, cover them with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and braise the quails gently for about a quarter of an hour. Prepare about half a pint of stewed peas, and finish them with a little of the mirepoix reduced to a glaze; dish up the quails in a circle with their breasts placed outwards, fill the centre with the stewed peas, place a slice of streaky bacon between each quail, pour some Espagnole sauce, finished with some of the mirepoix, round and over, and serve. Quails a la Perigueux Draw four or more fine fat quails, taking care not to tear the pouch or skin of the throat; fill each with some truffles cut into very small olives, and prepared as for stuffing fowls, etc., it la Perigueux (see p. 296); then truss them in the same manner as fowls for boiling. Next cover the bottom of a saute-pan with thin layers of bacon, and place the quails on it; put a bouquet garni and a clove of garlic in the centre, cover with layers of bacon, and moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57); braise them gently for about a quarter of an hour, and when done, dish up with their backs resting upright against a small ornamental croustade of fried bread fastened to the centre of the dish; place a large white cock’s-comb between each quail, and some double cocks’-combs in the centre; pour some Perigueux sauce (see p. 7) over, and serve. Quails k la Financi&re Remove the bones entirely from four fat quails, reserve the livers, and add to them two ounces of fat livers of fowl, with which prepare some force-meat (see p. 61), and stuff the quails with partTHE MODERN COOK 312 of this; they must then be trussed in the usual manner, and placed in a saute-pan with thin layers of fat bacon under them, a bouquet garni in the centre, and covered with layers of fat bacon; moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and braise them gently for about half an hour. Prepare a rich Financiere ragoflt (see p. 44), the sauce of which must be finished with some of the liquor in which the quails have been braised. When about to send to table, warm the quails, drain, and dish up, garnish the centre with the Financiere, pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Quails a la Royale Bone four quails, then stuff them with some quenelle force-meat, and truss them in the usual manner; place them in a stew-pan with some sliced carrot, an onion, two cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with a pint of white stock, cover with a round of buttered paper, put the lid on, and leave them to braise very gently by the side of the fire for about half an hour; then allow them to partly cool in their own liquor, after which they must be taken out and placed upon a dish to become cold; the strings should then be removed, and the quails entirely covered with a coating of d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5); when this has become firmly set by cooling, roll them in bread-crumbs, afterwards dip them in beaten egg, and bread-crumb them over again. When about to send to table, place the quails in a frying-basket and plunge them into hot fat; fry them a light-brown colour, then drain, and dish up on a border of quenelle force-meat previously turned out on the dish; fill the centre with a white Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some Allemande sauce round, and serve. Cutlets of Quails a la Marechale Split three or more quails into halves, remove the breast, pinion, and part of the back-bones, leaving the leg whole, which must be passed through the skin of the thigh to give the appearance of cutlets; flatten them slightly with a small bat, season with pepper and salt, then mask over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and bread-crumb them twice—once after being dipped in beaten egg, and the second time in clarified butter; pat them into shape with the blade of a knife, and place in a saut£-pan with some clarified butter. Fry the cutlets a light colour over a rather brisk fire; when done, drain and glaze lightly, and dish up in the same way as other cutlets; fill the centre with either a Macedoine of vegetables (see p. 35) or pieces of cucumbers, stewed peas, asparagus peas, or a puree of artichokes; pour some half-glaze or a little Supreme sauce round the entree, and serve. Cutlets of Quails a la Bordelaise Trim four or six quails into cutlets in the same way as before, season them with pepper and salt, and place them in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter; fry over a brisk fire, and as soon as they are brown on both sides, pour off all the fat, add a dessert-ENTREES OF QUAILS AND LARKS 313 spoonful of glaze, and toss them in it over the fire; then dish up in a close circle with the legs uppermost, fill the centre with neat pieces of truffles and mushrooms, pour some Bordelaise sauce (see p. 14) over the cutlets, and serve. Quail Cutlets a la Princesse 3 quails, 2 oz. butter, \ lb. gratin farce, J pint small rissole potatoes, 1 bundle sprue, 1 gill Madere sauce, a little cream, 8 small nouille cups, 1 egg, bread-crumbs, seasoning, chopped parsley. Remove all the bones from the quails except the leg bones, then cut each in half and flatten ; fry slightly in butter, and press. When cold, spread the cut sides of each half (cutlet shape) with gratin farce, season well, egg and crumb, and fry in butter to a golden colour. Have ready the rissold potatoes, and sprue, cut up in small pieces and cooked in salted water; reheat in a little butter and cream, and season; fill the small paste cups with rissole potatoes, arrange the sprue in the centre of an entree dish, dress the cutlets round this, and the paste cups with potatoes round the base of the dish. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley over the potatoes and the sprue, pour a little sauce round the base of the dish, and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. Souffles of Quails au Madere Pound the meat of three quails free from skin and bone, and mix, whilst pounding, two ounces of cooked rice (rice boiled in stock and drained), and continue to pound till smooth. Rub through a fine sieve, and incorporate with the puree two yolks of eggs, a table- spoonful of meat glaze, and the necessary seasoning. Stir this into a stew-pan over the fire until it is quite hot, then add one to two truffles cut into slices, and the stiff froth of two whites of eggs. Three parts fill some buttered paper or china souffle cases, set them in a moderate oven for about ten minutes, and finish them in a sharp oven ; they will take about twenty minutes in all. Brush over the top of each with meat glaze, i.e. game glaze, and send to table with a sauce-boat of Madere sauce. Quails a la Talleyrand Fillet six quails, and with the carcases make some essence (see p. 41); trim the fillets, and stick a short bone (reserved from the legs) into them, to imitate cutlets; then place them in a stew- pan with some clarified butter. Prepare twelve fried croutons of bread cut in the shape and size of the fillets, and fill these with some farce made from the quails’ livers; prepare also some slices of fat livers, truffles, and mushrooms, and put them into a small stew-pan with a little Allemande sauce; finish some Supreme sauce by in- corporating therein the reduced essence of quails, and keep it in a small bain-marie. Just before sending to table simmer the fillets over a moderate fire, and, when done, pour off all the fat, add a little of the Supreme sauce, toss the fillets in it, and dish up as follows:— First, place six of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven) at the bottom of the dish, so that the points meet in the centre;314 THE MODERN COOK then place a fillet upon each of these, after which repeat the croutons, and then place the last row of fillets; fill the centre with the livers, etc., pour the Supreme sauce over, and serve. Quails a la Parisienne Prepare the fillets and the crofitons as before directed, and finish and dish up in the same way; fill the centre of the entrfie with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce over, and serve. Escallops of Quails with Truffles Fillet four to six quails; trim each fillet into two escallops, and place the whole of these in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; season with a little pepper and salt, and place a round of buttered paper over them. Use the carcases to make some extract or essence, which, when done, must be clarified, boiled down to half-glaze, and incorporated with three-quarters of a pint of finished Espagnole sauce, and put into a small bain-marie. Simmer the escallops over a moderate fire, and as soon as they are done, pour off all the fat, and add half the sauce with two good-sized truffles cut into slices; toss over the fire for two minutes without allowing them to boil; pile up in the centre of the dish, pour the remainder of the sauce over, garnish with a border of potato croquettes or fleurons, and serve. Escallops of Quails with Cucumbers Prepare four to six quails in the same manner as before. When about to send to table simmer them over the fire, and, when done, pour off the fat, add some slices of cucumbers (see p. 33), and some of the essence made from the carcases boiled down to a glaze; toss over the fire for two minutes, and pile up in the centre of the dish; garnish with a border of croquettes made with the legs, and serve. Larks a la Minute Cut off the legs of eight to ten larks and pick out the gizzards with the point of a small knife; then place the larks in a deep sautd-pan previously spread with butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry over a brisk fire until they have' browned and are nearly done; all the fat must be poured off, and three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce, four ounces of mushrooms, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, and the juice of half a lemon should then be added ; toss over the fire until the whole is well mixed, then dish up the larks with fried croutons of bread round them, pour the mushrooms and sauce over, and serve. Larks a la Chipolata Prepare and fry twelve larks as before, and, when done, pour off the fat and add some Chipolata ragofit (see p. 44); toss this over the fire for five minutes, then dish up six of the larks upon as many small oval croutons, place six more crofitons on these, and put the remaining larks upon them; fill the centre with the ragout, pour the sauce over, and serve.ENTREES OF RABBIT AND HARE 3^5 Larks with Fine Herbs Trim eight to ten larks and draw the gizzards; place them in a saut£- pan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; fry a light-brown colour over a brisk fire, and then add a tablespoonful of chopped mush- rooms, a dessertspoonful of parsley, and a chopped shalot; simmer these with the larks for five minutes longer, then add a pint of Espagnole sauce, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, the juice of half a lemon and a little grated nutmeg; toss the whole well together over the fire for two minutes, and dish in a neat pyramidal form, place some croutons of fried bread round, pour the sauce over, and serve. Larks with Truffles a l’ltalienne Fry six or eight larks as before directed, and when they are brown, pour off the fat, add three-quarters of a pint of Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5), six or eight mushrooms, and about two ounces of truffles cut into slices; toss the whole together over the fire for five minutes, dish up the larks in double rows, with croutons of bread between each row, fill the centres with the truffles and mushrooms, pour the sauce over, and serve. ENTRIES OF RABBIT AND HARE Rabbit a la Chasseur Cut up a young rabbit into small joints as follows :—First, take off the hind legs even with the loins, then remove the shoulders, split the head into halves, and divide the loins into six pieces; trim these neatly without waste, and place them in a saute-pan with two ounces of clarified butter, pepper, and salt. Fry them a light-brown colour over a rather brisk fire, and add a tablespoonful of sliced mushrooms, truffle, parsley, and shalot; then put the lid on, and cook the rabbit over a slow fire for about ten minutes longer; next pour off all the fat, add a pint of Espagnole sauce, a dozen small quenelles of rabbit, a small piece of glaze, a little nutmeg, and the juice of half a lemon ; simmer the whole together on the fire for three minutes, then pile up the pieces of rabbit in the dish, arrange the ragofit over this in neat groups, pour the sauce over, place some croutons of fried bread round, and serve. Rabbit Fried in Batter with Poivrade Sauce Cut the rabbit up as in the previous recipe, and then follow the directions given for dressing chickens in this manner on p. 289. Rabbit a la Bourguignonne Cut a rabbit up into small joints, season with pepper and salt, and fry slightly over the fire, without browning, adding two tablespoonfuls of button-onions previously parboiled in water, a very little grated3l6 THE MODERN COOK nutmeg, and six or eight mushrooms; toss these over the fire for five minutes, then add a glass of French white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), and leave to boil quickly until reduced to half the quantity; next add a pint of Veloute sauce (see p. 3), simmer the whole together gently for ten minutes longer, and finish by incorporating a liaison of two yolks of eggs, the juice of half a lemon, and a dessertspoonful of chopped parboiled parsley; dish up the pieces of rabbit in a pyramidal form, garnish with the onions, etc., placed in groups round the dish, pour the sauce over it, and serve. Rabbit a la Perig-ueux Cut the rabbit up, and fry it with a little butter to a light-brown colour: pour off the fat, add a pint of Pdrigueux sauce (see p. 7), two ounces of truffles cut into slices, and a dozen small quenelles of rabbit, and simmer the whole together over the fire for five minutes; dish up with croutons round, garnish with the ragout, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Rabbit a la Toulouse Fillet two small rabbits; trim the fillets and lard two-thirds of each—beginning at the thick end ; then place them in a circular rowr, all curved in the same direction, in a casserole, the bottom of which should be lined with thin layers of fat bacon. About twenty minutes before sending to table, pour a little strong consomme or thin half- glaze over the fillets, place a round piece of buttered paper upon them, and set them in the oven to simmer for ten minutes ; then remove the paper, dry the larding, and glaze it, frequently basting the fillets with their own glaze; drain, trim, and dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with Toulouse ragout (see p. 43), pour some of the sauce round, glaze the larding of the fillets, and serve. Note.—Fillets of rabbits larded may also be garnished with either a ragofit h la Parisienne or h la Financihre, with small quenelles, slices of truffles, mushrooms, or cucumbers, and writh any kind of dressed vegetables or purees. Fillets of Rabbit a la Marechale Fillet two small rabbits, slightly flatten, and then trim the fillets, making an incision round the interior part of them ; fill this with some d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5); mask over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and when this has become firmly set by cooling, bread-crumb twice—once after dipping in beaten egg, and then after sprinkling over with clarified butter; broil the fillets over a clear fire, with a sheet of oiled paper placed upon the gridiron ; when browned on both sides, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with slices of the kidneys and smaller fillets; glaze the fillets, pour some bright Espagnole sauce, worked with essence made from the carcases, round, and serve. Note.—These fillets may also be served with some bright aspic, with cucumbers, a puree of celery, or White Italian sauce.317 ENTREES OF RABBIT AND HARE Blanquette of Rabbit a l’Ecarlate Fillet one or more young rabbits, cut off the hind-quarters, and wrap in a large sheet of thickly-buttered paper. Roast them before the fire or in a quick oven for about twenty minutes ; then take them up, and leave them in the paper till they have become cold ; the meat must next be peeled off, cut into small dice, and made up into croquettes (see below). Trim the fillets, and place them in a saute- pan with a little clarified butter, pepper, and salt, and simmer them in the oven or over a slow fire for about ten minutes, without allow- ing them to brown; then drain, and cut into sloping slices ; put these into a stew-pan with one-third of their proportion of slices of red tongue; add a pint of Allemande sauce, warm the Blanquette, gently tossing it over the fire, and dish up in the form of a dome; garnish with the croquettes, previously fried, mask the Blanquette with a little of the sauce, and serve. Polpettes of Rabbits a l’ltalienne Roast two small rabbits, and when cold, cut off all the meat and chop it up finely; put this into a saute-pan with a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, an equal proportion of parsley and two shalots, also chopped, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a little grated nutmeg, and one pint of reduced Veloute sauce; stir these together over the fire until well mixed, then add the yolks of two eggs, and spread the preparation out in a square, about half an inch thick, upon a dish; when this has become cold, stamp the Poulepetons out with a circular cutter about an inch and a half in diameter ; bread-crumb twice in the usual manner, place in a saute-pan with some clarified butter, and fry lightly over a brisk fire ; when done, drain, dish up in double circular rows, pour some Brown Italian sauce under, and serve. Rabbit a la Provensale Cut a rabbit into neat joints, and fry them in a sauffi-pan con- taining half a gill of sweet oil and a sliced onion. When sufficiently brown, pour off the oil and add a glass of white wine (Chablis or Sauterne), cover, and let reduce a little; next add four peeled ripe tomatoes cut in quarters, and half a pint of demi-glace or other good brown sauce, season with salt and pepper and savoury herbs, and let simmer gently until the meat is tender. To serve, dress the pieces of rabbit on a crohton of fried bread placed on a hot dish. Reduce the sauce to the desired consistency, skim, and strain it over the dish. Serve hot. Fillets of Hare larded with Poivrade Sauce Prepare and fillet a small hare, and split each fillet into halves these should be trimmed and larded, and placed in a curve at the bottom of a casserole lined with thin layers of fat bacon. Moisten with some mirepoix (see p. 57), place a round of buttered paper upon the fillets, and set them in the oven to simmer for twenty minutes, frequently basting them with their own liquor; when nearlyTHE MODERN COOK 3i« done, remove the paper, dry the larding, and glaze it; drain the fillets, trim, and dish up in a close circle, pour some Poivrade, Tomato, or Italian sauce under, and serve. Note.—These fillets may also be garnished in the same way as directed for fillets of rabbits. Fillets of Hare a la Chasseur Prepare the fillets of a small hare and place them in a saute-pan as before. Use the carcase for making some extract or fumet. Reserve the hind-quarter; place on a large sheet of paper thickly buttered, wrap the paper round the legs, and then roast before the fire or in the oven for about half an hour, basting frequently. When done, take off all the meat, chop it very finely, and pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and half a gill of Espagnole sauce; rub it through a fine wire-sieve or a tammy, and put the puree into a small stew-pan. When about to send to table, braise, and glaze the fillets as directed in the previous recipe, dish up in a close circle, fill the centre with the puree, pour round, and mask the puree with some bright Espagnole sauce mixed with the fumet; glaze the larding of the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Hare a l’AHemande Lard the fillets of a small hare as in the previous recipes, steep them in some marinade (see p. 57) for six hours at least; drain, and put in a stew-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon, moisten with some wine mirepoix, braise, and glaze them in the usual manner, and when done, dish up in a close circle ; fill the centre with large prunes stewed in red wine flavoured with a small stick of cinnamon, pour some Victoria Cherry sauce (see p. 16) round, place a border of quenelles of potatoes (see p. 80) round the entrde, and serve. Cutlets of Hare a la Portuguaise Fillet a small hare and cut each fillet into halves, flatten these slightly with a bat, trim into the shape of cutlets, and scrape some of the ribs to resemble cutlet-bones ; season with a little pepper and salt, mask over with a thin coating of Allemande sauce, and bread- crumb the cutlets twice—once after being dipped in beaten egg, and again after being sprinkled with clarified butter; pat into shape, and place in a sautl-pan with clarified butter. When about to send to table, fry the cutlets lightly, drain, glaze, and dish up in a close circle; pour some Portuguese sauce (see p. 15) round, and serve. Cutlets of Hare a l’Ancienne The hare must be trimmed and filleted as before, then placed in a buttered saut^-pan without being bread-crumbed; season with pepper and salt, pour a little clarified butter over, and with the hind- quarters make some puree in the usual way. Use the carcase to make some fumet, to be worked into some Espagnole sauce for the entree. Cut as many crofitons of bread as there are cutlets, and of3l9 ENTREES OF RABBIT AND HARE the same shape; draw the point of a small knife round the inside of the edge of the croutons, and when they are fried a light golden colour, remove the inner piece, fill the cavities with the puree, and place them in a sautd-pan with a round of buttered paper over. J ust before dinner-time simmer the cutlets over a slow fire for about five minutes, turn them over when done on the under side, and allow them to remain two minutes longer; pour off the butter, add a little glaze and a gill of the sauce, toss them in this, and dish up in a close circle placing one of the croutons (previously warmed) between each cutlet; fill the centre with slices of the kidneys and small fillets tossed in a little of the sauce, pour the sauce round, and serve. Escallops of Hare with Fine Herbs Cut the fillets of a small hare into escallops, flatten them slightly, trim neatly, and place in a stew-pan with clarified butter, season with pepper and salt, and fry on both sides over a brisk fire for about five minutes; pour off the butter, add a pint of Fine Herbs sauce (see p. 5); simmer the escallops over the fire for two minutes, pile them up in the centre of the dish, pour the sauce over, garnish round with croquettes made with the hind-quarters, as on p. 317, and serve. Escallops of Hare a la P6rigueux Prepare the escallops and fry them as above ; pour off the butter, add a pint of P^rigueux sauce (see p. 7) and some slices of truffles; simmer over the fire for three minutes, dish up in the form of a dome, garnish round with croquettes in the form of pears, and serve. Note.—Escallops of hares may also be finished with the following sauces: Poivrade, Italian, Tomato, Espagnole, and Bourguignote; in either case escallops of truffles, tongue, or mushrooms may be added. Jugged Hare with Mushrooms Cut a small hare into neat joints, then parboil four ounces of streaky bacon and cut it into dice; fry these in a stew-pan until they brown, then take them out, and fry the pieces of hare brown also. Next dredge one ounce of flour over them and toss them over the fire for three minutes; add the fried bacon, six or eight mushrooms, an onion stuck with four cloves, a carrot and a bouquet garni; season with pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of port wine and a pint of good stock, stir the civet on the fire till it boils, and then remove it to the side that it may clarify itself by gentle boiling. Fry twelve button-onions in a small stew-pan with a little butter for five minutes, and when the civet has boiled about half an hour, throw these in; as soon as the pieces of hare become tender, remove the scum from the surface, take out the onion, carrot, and herbs; and if too much sauce, pour it into another stew-pan, and reduce by boiling, stirring it with a wooden spoon to prevent its burning, then pass it through a tammy upon the civet. Pile up the pieces of hare in the centre of the dish, and garnish round with theTHE MODERN COOK 32° mushrooms, etc.; pour the sauce over, place a dozen croutons of fried bread cut in the shape of a heart round, and serve. Leverets, when cut up in small joints, may be dressed in the same manner as rabbits (which see). PHEASANTS Salmi of Pheasant a la Bourguignote Roast a plump pheasant, let it become cold, and then cut it up as follows :—First remove the legs, then cut off the fillets with the pinion-bones adhering, separate the breast from the back, trim both, cut them crosswise into halves, and place all the pieces in a stew-pan. Next chop up the trimmings and put them into a stew-pan with three shalots sliced up, a small bay leaf and sprig of thyme, a few peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a pat of butter; fry these over the fire until slightly browned, moisten with a glass of claret or Burgundy, and boil until reduced to half the quantity; then add half a pint of white consomme, and after the fumet has simmered by the side of the stove for a quarter of an hour, pass it through a sieve into a stew-pan containing three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce, and work it in the usual manner (by clarifying and reducing it), then pass through a tammy into a basin. Pour one- third of the sauce over the pheasant, and put the remainder into a bain-marie containing a few button-mushrooms, small truffles, and glazed button-onions. When about to send to table, warm the pieces of pheasant without allowing them to boil; dish up, first placing the pieces of back, then the legs and the fillets, sur- mounting the whole with the breast; garnish the salmis with the ragout disposed in groups round, place some heart-shaped crofitons between these, pour the remainder of the sauce over, and serve. Salmi of Pheasant a la Bresilienne Roast a young pheasant, and afterwards cut it up into small joints as in the previous recipe. Make a little farce with pheasants’ livers (or failing these, chickens’ livers may be substituted), and use this to fill six heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. Chop the trimmings, and put them into a stew-pan with two cloves of garlic, some chopped mushrooms, a blade of mace, bay leaf, sprig of thyme, twelve peppercorns, and a teaspoonful of crushed pimiento, two ounces of lean ham, and a good tablespoonful of salad oil; fry these over a moderate fire for five minutes, then add two ripe tomatoes, and after these ingredients have been stirred over the fire until the tomatoes are broken, pour in a glass of Madeira; boil this down to half its quantity, add half a pint of consomme, allow the fumet to boil gently for twenty minutes, and pass it through a tammy with pressure into a stew-pan containing three-quarters of a pint of Espagnole sauce; work the two together in the usual manner and321 PHEASANTS pass through the tammy into a basin ; add one-third to the pieces of pheasant, and pour the remainder into a bain-marie containing some button-mushrooms and small truffles. Dish up the pheasant as usual, place the croutons (warmed in the oven and glazed) round the salmi, garnish with the ragout and sauce, and serve. Salmi of Pheasant a la Paysanne Roast the pheasant, just before dinner, with some crohtons of toast placed under it, cut it up into small joints, and dish up immediately; place the croutons of toast round the salmi, and pour the following sauce over it:—Chop three shalots, some parsley and mushrooms; put these into a stew-pan with a dessertspoonful of oil, thyme and bay leaf, and a little cayenne pepper; fry these ingredients over a moderate fire for five minutes, add two glasses of white wine, a small piece of glaze, and half a pint of good consomme ; boil the sauce briskly until reduced to half its original quantity, then add the juice of half a lemon, and use as directed. Salmi of Pheasant a la Chasseur Roast a young hen-pheasant, cut it up as usual, and put the fillets, the pieces of the breast and back, into a stew-pan—using the legs to make some puree with. Prepare a Salmi sauce (see p. 4) with four shalots and some parsley, chopped and parboiled, which are to be added, together with the juice of half a lemon when sending to table. Warm the salmi in the sauce, dish up in a pyramidal form, garnish round with half-a-dozen small croustades of fried bread, about an inch and a half high and the same in diameter, filled with the puree; pour the sauce over, and serve. Escallops of Pheasant a la Richelieu Fillet a pheasant, remove the sinews without trimming, and simmer the fillets in a sautd-pan with a little butter, pepper, and salt; then cut them into escallops, and put these into a stew-pan with some Richelieu ragout (see p. 47). just before sending to table, warm the escallops without letting them boil; dish up, garnish with croquettes made with the legs, and serve. Escallops of Pheasant a la Victoria Fillet a young pheasant, and prepare the escallops as directed in the previous recipe. Make some puree with the legs-—this must be kept stiff, and mixed with one-third of its quantity of reduced Allemande sauce; then spread out half an inch in thickness upon a dish, and, when cold, cut into small heart-shaped croquettes, egged and bread-crumbed in the usual manner. Use the carcase to make some essence with, which, after being reduced to glaze, must be mixed with half a pint of Supreme sauce (see p. 10) and poured on the escallops. Ten minutes before sending to table fry the croquettes of puree, dish up the escallops in the form of a dome, place the croquettes in a close circle round the entree, and serve. Y322 THE MODERN COOK Escallops of Pheasant a la Palerme Prepare some escallops with the fillets of a hen-pheasant, use the legs to make some puffle with (see p. 321), mix some Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) with the essence made from the carcase, and add this to the escallops with some slices of tongue, mushrooms, and truffles. Prepare also half-a-dozen small croustades of nouilles (see p. 208), fry them a light golden colour, empty them, and fill with the puree; dish up the escallops, place the croustades round the entree, and serve. Pheasant a la Perigueux Follow in every respect the directions for dressing Turkey k la Perigord (see p. 204). Pheasants a la Chipolata These are to be trussed and nicely roasted, and dished up and neatly garnished with a Chipolata ragout (see p. 44). Pheasants a l’ltalienne Truss one or more pheasants as for boiling, and roast them in the usual way, then cover the breasts with a reduced wine mirepoix, retaining the vegetables in it; wrap in two large sheets of well- buttered paper, securely fastened at each end with string. Roast the pheasants for an hour, take them up, place them on a dish, garnish with a border of raviolis (see p. 103), pour an Italian sauce over them, and serve. Pheasants a la Beauveaux The pheasants must be boned, except the legs and wings, which should be left entire; stuff with a farce made with fat livers of fowls or game (see p. 61), then truss them so as to give them the appearance of being whole; cover the breasts with some reduced mirepoix (see p. 57), and wrap them up in two sheets of buttered paper, which must be securely fastened with string. Roast the pheasants an hour, and when done, dish up with a ragout of scallops of fat livers and truffles (see p. 44) in a Financiere sauce, and serve. Pheasants k la Financiere Truss and roast one or more pheasants, and when done, dish up with a rich Financiere ragofit (see p. 44). Pheasants with Pur4e of Celery Truss one or more pheasants for boiling, braise them in some good stock garnished with a carrot, an onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; when done, drain them, dish them up, and pour over them a white pur£e of celery (see p. 27); garnish with a border of potato croquettes, and serve.PHEASANTS 323 Pheasants a la Soubise These should be larded through the breasts lengthwise with strips of fat bacon about two inches long and a quarter of an inch square, seasoned with pepper and salt and chopped parsley; they must be afterwards trussed for boiling, then braised as in the fore- going recipe ; when done, dish up with a puree of onions a la Soubise (see p. 29) poured over them, and send to table. Pheasants a la Dauphine See Chicken a la Dauphine (p. 286), and proceed in the manner directed. Pheasants a la Paysanne Truss one or more pheasants as for boiling, with the legs tucked inside; put them into an oval stew-pan with two or three ounces of butter and a piece of glaze the size of an egg, and set them to simmer very gently over a slow fire. They must be frequently turned, and care taken to prevent the glaze and butter from burning. When the pheasants are done, let the butter and glaze be poured off; add a glass of white wine and some good stock in sufficient quantity to serve for the gravy, the juice of half a lemon, and a little pepper and salt; boil these together to detach the glaze from the sides of the stew-pan, and when the pheasants are dished up, pour this gravy over them, garnish with groups of fried potatoes cut into the shape of large olives, and serve. Pheasants k la Dauphinoise Truss one or more pheasants as for boiling, braise them in a wine mirepoix (see p. 57), and when done, take them up, draw the strings, and allow them to get partially cold; then cover them entirely with some reduced Allemande sauce in which has been mixed half the mirepoix the pheasants have been braised in. This coating of sauce should be allowed to cool, and then must be bread-crumbed over with one or two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese mixed with the bread-crumbs. The pheasants must now be placed in a deep baking-tin or pie-dish, previously well buttered, and the remaining half of the braise added to moisten the bottom of the pan. Half an hour before dinner-time sprinkle the pheasants with a little clarified butter, and set them in the oven to be baked to a very light-fawn colour—frequently basting them with clarified butter while baking. When done, dish them up side by side, garnish with a border of quenelles of polenta, pour a Brown Italian sauce under them, and serve. The quenelles of polenta above alluded to should be thus made :— Put into a small stew-pan two and a half ounces of butter, half a pint of water, a little mignonette pepper and salt; set these on the fire to boil, and then mix in with them four ounces of polenta (a preparation of Indian corn); stir this again over the fire until itTHE MODERN COOK 324 becomes a smooth, compact paste, and then work in with it one whole egg, two yolks, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese. Shape this composition into quenelles with two tablespoons in the usual manner, and poach them in hot water. Pheasants with Cabbages These must be trussed as for boiling, and placed in a rather large oval stew-pan with one or two white-heart or Savoy cabbages previously cut into halves, the cores taken out, and blanched or parboiled: afterwards the two halves of each cabbage, previously seasoned with mignonette pepper and salt, must be tied up with string; add two carrots, one small head of celery, two onions each stuck with two cloves, half a pound of streaky bacon (which must also be parboiled like the cabbages), a quarter of a pound of German sausage, and a bouquet garni; moisten with good stock in sufficient quantity to cover the pheasants, cover with a piece of buttered paper, put the lid on the stew-pan, and then set the whole on a moderate fire to stew very gently for about one and a half hours. Just before sending to table take out the pheasants, drain them, remove the strings, and dish up with an ornamental croustade of fried bread in the centre; then put the bacon and German sausage upon a plate, and after having drained the cabbages in a colander, roll them in a clean cloth in the form of a rolling-pin ; cut this into two-inch lengths and place them round the pheasants, trim the bacon, cut it into strips and lay on the top of the circle of the pieces of cabbages in alternate layers with slices of the sausage ; pour an Espagnole sauce over the whole, glaze the pheasants, and serve. Pheasants a la Flamande Truss and braise one or more pheasants in common stock garnished with a carrot, onion stuck with two cloves, and a bouquet garni; when done, dish up side by side, garnished with alternate groups of carrots and turnips cut into fancy shapes and nicely glazed, and some dressed Brussels sprouts and glazed onions; pour an Espagnole sauce round, glaze the pheasants, and serve. Pheasant a I’Allemande See Chicken h. 1’Allemande (p. 288). Pheasants a la Regence Truss one or more plump pheasants as for roasting, lard them closely, and about an hour before dinner-time roast them for about forty minutes, taking particular care to baste them frequently, and glaze them well just before taking them from the fire. When done, dish up, garnish with groups of white cocks’-combs, button-mush- rooms, and truffles; sauce the remove neatly round with some Allemande sauce so as not to touch the pheasants, glaze the larding, and serve.325 PHEASANTS Pheasants with Rice a 1’EspagnoIe These must be trussed as for boiling, and then placed in an oval stew-pan with carrot, celery, two onions stuck with three cloves each, a bouquet garni, and a couple of red Spanish sausages ; moisten with some red wine-mirepoix, cover them over, and set them to stew very gently for about two hours on a slow fire. While the pheasants are stewing, prepare some rice in the follow- ing manner:— Thoroughly wash six ounces of Carolina rice, and afterwards boil it for three minutes in water, and drain it on a sieve until all the moisture is absorbed; then put a gill of salad oil into a large frying-pan over a brisk fire, and as soon as the oil is quite hot, throw the rice in and fry it until it becomes slightly browned, stirring it with a spoon the whole of the time it remains on the fire. Then put the rice into a stew-pan, moisten it with a pint of good consomme, season with a little cayenne pepper and a pinch of saffron powder; set it to simmer very gently on the fire for half an hour, and when the pheasants are dished up, work the rice with a teaspoonful of Tomato sauce and a little glaze, then mould it in the shape of ordinary quenelles with a tablespoon, and place these closely round the pheasants after they are dished up ; sauce over with Poivrade sauce in which part of the braising liquor has been mixed after being first boiled down to glaze, and serve. Pheasants a l’Aspic Bone one or more pheasants and take care to leave the legs and wings entire; then season the inside with pepper and salt, and stuff them with some force-meat of pheasant (see p. 59) previously mixed with some chopped parsley and mushrooms; truss so as to give them their original shape and size, cover with thin layers of fat bacon, and wrap them securely in buttered paper fastened at each end with string. When the pheasants are thus far prepared, place them in an oval stew-pan with a carrot, an onion stuck with three cloves, and a bouquet garni; moisten with good white stock in sufficient quantity to cover them, and then set them to braise very gently on a slow fire for an hour and a half. When the pheasants are done, take them up, remove the paper and string, drain all the moisture from them, and dish them up; pour under some bright essence of game, made from the carcases of the pheasants, clarified, and reduced to half-glaze. Pheasants a la Montglas Roast one or more pheasants, and as soon as they are cooked cut the meat from the breasts by making an incision in the shape of a heart; this meat must then be cut into very small dice and mixed with two tablespoonfuls of reduced Bechamel sauce or Allemande, three or four mushrooms, a couple of black truffles, and a small piece of red tongue should be also cut into dice and mixed with the pheasant. With this preparation fill up the breasts of the pheasants, smooth over with the blade of a knife, and then cover them withTHE MODERN COOK 326 bread-crumbs fried a light-brown colour; set the pheasants in the oven to keep warm, and when about to send to table, place them in their dish side by side, pour under them a white ragout of cocks’- combs, mushrooms, and truffles, and serve. PARTRIDGES Partridges a la Seville Truss a pair of partridges as for boiling, fry them a light-brown colour in a little fresh butter, and then set them aside upon a plate; cut about a quarter of a pound of raw ham (previously soaked and parboiled) into small pieces in the form of olives, and two dozen small pieces of the red part of a carrot cut with a round scoop, with the same number of small button-onio.ns; fry these also a light- brown colour, withdraw them from the fire, and then put them with the partridges back into the stew-pan ; add a few sprigs of parsley garnished with thyme, bay leaf, sweet basil, and one clove of garlic; season with a little salt and cayenne pepper, moisten with two glasses of Madeira or Malaga, then set the stew-pan (covered with the lid containing live embers) on a slow fire, to simmer gently for three- quarters of an hour. See that the liquor in the stew-pan is reduced to one-half of its original quantity while braising. When done, dish up, skim off the fat from the carrots, etc., add half a pint of finished Espagnole and the juice of half a lemon; boil the whole together for two minutes, place the ham, carrots, and onions in separate groups round the partridges, pass the sauce through a tammy or fine strainer, pour it over the partridges, and serve. Partridges a la Plessy These are to be trussed as for boiling, braised in white stock, and, when done, dished up and garnished with neat groups of small quenelles of partridge and white button-mushrooms; pour round a Supreme sauce, and serve. Partridges a la Cerito Bone two red-legged partridges and stuff them with some quenelle force-meat made with the fillets of two partridges, and with which should be mixed, previous to using it, two black truffles and a small piece of red tongue cut into small dice; when the partridges are filled with this preparation, truss them so as to give them their original shape; scald the red legs and insert them on each side of the birds, at the same time pushing the ends of the skin of the leg neatly in with each foot. Then wrap each bird in a separate paper spread with butter, and fasten the ends with string; braise them for about forty minutes in some white stock over a slow fire, and take particular care that they do not boil fast. When done take them out of the paper, remove the string, drain all the unnecessary moisture from them, and dish them up; garnish with a border of raviolis (see p. 103), pour a Proven§ale sauce over them, and serve.PARTRIDGES 327 Partridges a la Ravigote These should he trussed as for boiling, and must be roasted just before they are wanted; when dished up, pour a Ravigote or Provengale sauce under them, glaze, and send to table. Partridges a la Soubise Truss two partridges for boiling, braise them, and when done dish them up, pour an onion sauce & la Soubise, finished with a tablespoonful of cream (see p. 2^) over them, and send to table. Partridges a l’Ellisler Truss two partridges as for boiling, lard the breasts closely, braise them in a wine mirepoix (see p. 57); when done, glaze them nicely and dish them up; garnish with a group of small truffles, cocks’- combs, and mushrooms; pour a Parisian sauce (see p. 11) round the partridges, and serve. Salmi of Partridges a la Financiere Truss two young partridges, wrap them round with a large sheet of buttered paper, and par-roast before a moderate fire or in the oven for about twenty minutes; then take them up, place them on their breast in a dish, without removing the paper, and when cold, cut up into small joints: first taking off the legs, next the fillets with the pinion-bones left on, then dividing the breast and back, and trimming these whole. Place these joints in a braise-pan, beginning with the pieces of breasts, the fillets, and then the legs and back. Make some essence with the trimmings, to be used for working into half a pint of brown sauce ; pour a little of this to the pieces of partridges, and warm them without boiling ; dish up with the inferior joints under, place six or eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread round, and serve. Salmi of Partridges a la Provengale Par-roast, cut up, and trim two young partridges as in the previous recipe, chop the trimmings, and put them into a small braise-pan with three shalots, a clove of garlic, bay leaf and thyme, a few pepper- corns, and a small blade of mace, two ounces of chopped lean of ham, and two tablespoonfuls of salad oil; fry these ingredients over a moderate fire for five minutes, and then add two glasses of French white wine. Boil this until reduced to half its original quantity, then add half a pint of good consomme and the same quantity of Espagnole sauce. Stir the sauce over the fire till it boils, then remove it to the side to clarify by gentle simmering; after a quarter of an hour’s simmering, remove the scum, pass the sauce through a tammy, and boil down over a brisk fire; then incorporate a small piece of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon, and pass it again through a tammy into a basin; add one-third to the partridges, and put the remainder into a bain-marie containing some slices of truffles and mushrooms.THE MODERN COOK 328 When about to send to table, warm the salmi without boiling, dish up in the usual order, mask it with the ragout and sauce, garnish with glazed croutons, and serve. Salmi of Partridges a la Perigord Prepare the partridges as before; chop the trimmings and use them to make a sauce, as directed on p. 327. Cut out eight small heart-shaped croutons of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, make an incision round the inside of the edges, fry them in butter, empty them, and then fill the cavities with some puree of truffles (see p. 30); warm the salmi with a little of the sauce, and dish up so as to form a well in the centre; place four of the crohtons round the top of the entree, fill the centre with small quenelles of partridges, pour the sauce over the salmi, garnish the base with the remainder of the croutons, and serve. Salmi of Partridges with Mushrooms Roast and trim the partridges as usual, use the trimmings to make a sauce (see p. 327), then add it to the partridges with some button- mushrooms ; warm the salmi, dish up in a pyramidal form, pour the sauce over, garnish with croutons, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Lucullus Fillet a brace of young partridges, trim the large fillets and place them in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; season with a little salt, and place a round of buttered paper upon them; remove the sinew from the smaller fillets without tearing them, trim neatly, and place in a small saute-pan spread with butter; dip a soft paste-brush in some beaten white of egg, and pass over their surface, and then decorate them with black truffles. After this is completed, mask them with clarified butter, and place over them some very thin layers of fat bacon. Use the carcases to make some fumet, which must be boiled down to half-glaze, and part of it incorporated with one pint of white puree of mushrooms 1 (see p. 30); place the fillets on the fire for five minutes, then turn them over, and when done on both sides, without browning, drain off the butter, add a little of the pur£e of mushrooms, toss the fillets over the fire for a minute, and dish up with a heart-shaped crouton of fried bread [between each ; sauce the fillets with the puree, place the decorated fillets (previously simmered in the oven for about five minutes) across the croutons, pour the sauce or puree round the base, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Prince Albert Fillet two young partridges, leaving the pinion-bones on the fillets; trim neatly, lard closely, and place in a saut<£-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon ; moisten with some white wine mirepoix (see p. 57), place a round of paper upon them, and braise the fillets over a moderate fire or in the oven, and when nearly done glaze them nicely. Dish up in a close circle; fill the centre with a 1 This purde should be of the consistency and colour of Supreme sauce.PARTRIDGES 329 ragout of crayfish-tails tossed in a little partridge glaze; pour some Allemande sauce mixed with some fumet of partridges round, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a 1’Ancienne Wrap three young partridges in a double sheet of thickly-buttered paper, and roast them before a brisk fire or in the oven for about half an hour; then put them on a dish, and leave to cool without removing the paper. Cut the fillets out of the partridges, remove the skins, and trim neatly without waste ; put the fillets in a stew-pan with a little half-glaze made with the carcases. Make some pur^e with the meat from the legs, and use the gravy that runs from the birds after roasting to moisten with. Warm the fillets without boiling, dish up with a heart-shaped crofiton of fried bread between each, fill the centre with the puree, pour some Salmi sauce (see p. 4) over the entree, and serve. Fillets of Partridges a la Parisienne Trim the fillets of a brace of young partridges, and mask them over with a coating of Allemande sauce, dip them in beaten egg and bread-crumb them; then sprinkle over with clarified butter, and bread-crumb again; pat them gently into shape, and place in circular order in a stew-pan with some clarified butter. Fry the fillets a golden colour, drain, and glaze them slightly, dish up with a circular slice of red tongue between each; fill the centre with some Parisian ragout (see p. 46), pour some of the sauce round, and serve. Scallops of Partridges with Truffles Fillet one or more partridges, remove the sinews from the fillets and place in a stew-pan with some clarified butter; season with a little salt, and simmer in the oven or over the fire for five minutes; then turn them over, and when done on both sides, drain, and cut them into scallops; place these in a stew-pan with two ounces of truffles (previously simmered with a small piece of butter and glaze), and to these add some Espagnole sauce worked with a fumet made from the carcases. Warm the scallops without boiling, dish them up in the form of a dome, and garnish with some croquettes made with the legs. Scallops of Partridges in Cases Fillet one or more young partridges, cut the fillets into small scallops, and place them neatly in a large stew-pan with two small pats of butter, merely melted in the stew-pan without being clarified; season with mignonette pepper, salt, and nutmeg, chopped mush- rooms, parsley, truffles, and two shalots; simmer the scallops briskly over the fire, and when done, add one pint of Espagnole sauce worked with some fumet or extract (made from the carcases), and the juice of half a lemon ; toss the whole together over the fire for a few minutes, and fill eight or ten small plaited circular or heart- shaped paper cases that have been oiled and baked in the oven for five minutes to make the paper firmer. Place the cases upon a baking-sheet lined with clean paper, and lay a thin circular layer ofTHE MODERN COOK 33° fat bacon upon each case. Twenty minutes before sending to table put the cases of scallops in the oven to warm through, then dish up, pour a little of the same sauce in each, and serve. Note.—Scallops of partridges may be dressed as directed for scallops of pheasants ; fillets may also be served in every variety of form directed for the treatment of fillets of fowls. Partridge Cutlets a l’Algerienne Split a brace of young partridges into halves; remove the breast and back bones, and pass the legs through the skin of the thighs so as to give the form of cutlets; trim without waste, and place in circular order in a saute-pan with two pats of fresh butter melted; season with mignonette pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, and then finish as directed for chicken a l’Algerienne (see p. 283). Partridge Cutlets a la Maitre d’Hotel Prepare these as before, then mask with d’Uxelles sauce (see p. 5), bread-crumb twice in the usual manner, pat into shape, and place in a saute-pan with some clarified butter; fry a golden colour, drain upon a sheet of paper, glaze slightly, and dish up; pour half a pint of Maitre d’Hotel sauce (see p. 11), mixed with a small piece of partridge glaze, under them, and serve. Note.—Cutlets of young partridges may also be dressed k la Pompadour, k la Marechale, or k la Valengay. Puree of Partridge with Plover’s Eggs Roast one or more partridges, remove the skin, pare off all the meat, and use the bones to make some fumet or extract (see p. 41); chop the meat quite finely, pound it in a mortar with a pat of butter and a tablespoonful of sauce, and rub this through a tammy or very fine wire-sieve. Put the purde into a stew-pan, add some of the fumet (boiled down to glaze), and, if necessary, a little Allemande or Bechamel sauce; warm the puree with care to prevent it from becoming rough, which would be the case if allowed to boil; dish up in a conical form, place six poached eggs or plover’s eggs (if in season) round the base with a slice of red tongue cut in the form of a cock’s-comb between each egg; pour a little bright Espagnole sauce over the pure£ without masking the eggs, and serve. Minced Partridge with Poached Eggs This entree is mostly served when there happens to be any roast partridge or pheasant left over from a previous day’s dinner: the same remarks may in some degree apply to salmis, although a salmi made with fresh-roasted game is preferable. Cut the meat from the birds, either into shreds, or very small thin scallops or dice; add a little pepper and salt, and as much Salmi, Allemande, Bdchamel, or Supreme sauce as will suffice to moisten the mince; some truffles, mushrooms, or red tongue, cut up in the same manner, may also be added. Warm the mince, dish it up, garnish round with poached eggs or potato croquettes, and serve.33i PARTRIDGES Boudins of Partridge a la d’Orsay Prepare about half a pound of quenelle force-meat with the fillets of one or more partridges (see p. 59). Take one ounce of truffles, about the same proportion of mushrooms and red tongue; cut all these into even-shaped and very small dice, and add a large table- spoonful of puree of mushrooms (see p. 30) to the force-meat; mix thoroughly, and mould this preparation into six or eight oblong boudins, place these upon similar sized pieces of buttered paper laid on a stew-pan lid, and slip them off into a saute-pan containing some boiling stock; leave to simmer gently by the side of the fire for about twenty minutes, and when done through, drain, trim them square, mask over with some reduced Supreme sauce, garnish with a Parisian ragout (see p. 46), and serve. Boudins of Partridge au Madere Prepare eight ounces of force-meat with the fillets of one or more partridges (see p. 59) and mould into boudins as directed above, poach in the same manner, and when done, mask with some Madeira sauce (see p. 4) mixed with some partridge glaze; place a larded lamb’s sweetbread in the centre of these, fill the centre of the entree with some prawn tails tossed in a little glaze and lobster coral, pour some Madeira sauce round, and serve. Crepinettes of Partridge a la d’Estaing To the quantity of quenelle force-meat named in the previous recipe add two ounces. of fat bacon (previously boiled) and one ounce of French truffles, both cut into small dice, also a tablespoonful of Espagnole and a small piece of partridge glaze (in a liquid state), and season with a little cayenne ; mix well together, and then drop this preparation in tablespoonfuls upon a floured slab ; mould the crepinettes into the form of so many eggs, and wrap each of these in a proportionate sized piece of pig’s caul; flatten slightly by pressing upon them with the fingers, dip them in clarified butter, and fry lightly over a brisk fire; drain, and dish up in a close circle, pour round some half-glaze of partridges mixed with a small pat of butter and the juice of half a lemon, and serve. Souffles of Partridge k la Royale Prepare about half a pound of purde of partridge (see p. 330), warm it, then add three yolks of eggs, whisk the three whites and mix them in lightly also. Fill eight or ten small plaited fancy paper cases with this preparation, pass a soft paste-brush dipped in half-glaze over their surfaces, put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes; then dish up on a napkin, and serve. These souffles may be served in the place of patties, aftdr the fish.THE MODERN COOK 332 Salmi of Partridges with Aspic Jelly Prepare the salmi as directed on p. 327; keep the pieces of partridges separate from the sauce, which, when partially cold, must be mixed with one-third of its quantity of dissolved aspic jelly, and gently stirred on the ice until of the right consistency for masking the pieces of partridges: these must be raised on a dish in pyramidal form. Pour the remainder of the sauce over the entree, which should be garnished in the same manner as the last dish. Note.—Salmis of pheasants, woodcocks, quails, etc., are prepared for ball-suppers and similar entertainments in the same way as partridges. ENTRIES OF WOODCOCK, SNIPE, AND ORTOLAN Woodcock a la Financiere Truss three woodcocks in the usual way, and lard the breasts closely; place them in a braise-pan lined at the bottom with thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57), place a round of buttered paper upon them, cover with the lid containing live embers of charcoal, and leave to braise gently for about three- quarters of an hour over a moderate fire or in the oven, frequently basting them with their own liquor. When the birds are nearly done, remove the lid and paper to dry the larding for a minute or so, then glaze the woodcocks, and drain them upon a plate; remove the strings, and place them in the dish with their backs resting upright against a croustade of fried bread, about four inches high, and cut in an angular form; place a decorated quenelle between each woodcock, a large truffle on the top of the croustade, and a border of white cocks’-combs round this; garnish with a Financiere ragout (see p. 44), glaze the larding, and serve. Woodcock a la Perigord Draw three fine fat woodcocks, reserving the livers and trail; stuff them with the usual preparation of truffles (see p. 204), and truss them as for roasting; then place them upon a double sheet of paper thickly spread with butter; wrap the paper round them, secure it with string, and roast the woodcocks before a brisk fire or in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour: they must then be dished up in the form of an angle ; fill the centre with small quenelles, pour some Pdrigueux sauce (see p. 7) over the woodcocks, place a dozen crofitons round the entree, and serve. Croutons for Woodcock The above-named crofitons are thus prepared :—Fry the trail, etc., in a small saute-pan with a little butter, a tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and half a shalot; season with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and then add a tablespoonful of reduced EspagnoleENTREES OF WOODCOCK, SNIPE, AND ORTOLAN 333 sauce ; rub this through a tammy, and spread it upon six or eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread. These croutons should be placed in the oven for three minutes to warm them. Fillets of Woodcock a l’Ancienne See “ Fillets of Partridges ” (p. 329). Add the trail to the legs of the woodcocks; prepare an essence with the carcases, and use this to mix with the sauce; in all other respects proceed in the same manner. Fillets of Woodcock a la Perigueux Trim the fillets of two woodcocks, using the under fillets to form three more, by patting them together with the handle of a knife; place them in a saute-pan with clarified butter, and season with pepper and salt. Prepare some farce with the trail, as on p. 332, and spread itr upon as many croutons of fried bread as there are fillets. Simmer the fillets over the fire without allowing them to brown ; drain off the butter, then add a little of the Perigueux sauce mixed with the essence made from the carcases, toss the fillets in this, and dish up in a close circle round a small croustade of fried bread cut in the form of a vase ; place one of the croutons (previously warmed in the oven for three minutes) between each fillet; fill the croustade with some purde of truffles (see p. 30), pour the Perigueux sauce over the fillets, and serve. Salmi of Woodcock a la Minute Roast one or more woodcocks just before dinner-time ; cut them up into small joints in the usual manner, reserving the trail, which must be made into a pur£e and spread upon half-a-dozen small heart- shaped croutons. Prepare the sauce as directed above, and add it to the woodcocks. Warm the salmi without boiling, dish up in a pyramidal form, and place the croutons round the base ; add a small dessertspoonful of chopped and boiled parsley to the sauce, pour it over the entree, and serve. Salmi of Woodcock a la Bourguignote Roast one or more woodcocks, cut them up, and prepare the croutons as in the previous recipe; make an essence with the trimmings, and add this to a Bourguignote ragout (see p. 45). Warm the salmis with a little of the sauce, dish up, garnish with the ragout and sauce, place the crofitons round the base, and serve. Salmi of Snipe a la Bordelaise Roast four to six fat snipes, split them into halves, and prepare eight to ten croutons with the trail, as directed on p. 332; dish up the snipes in double circular rows, first placing a row of croutons, then pieces of snipes upon these, and again the croutons, closing with the remainder of the snipes : fill the centre with a ragofit of button-mushrooms, truffles, and small quenelles, pour some Bordelaise sauce (see p. 14) over the entree, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 334 Ortolans in Cases with Madeira Sauce These very delicious birds are in season in the summer months. Cut two fat livers of fowls and an equal quantity of fat bacon into square pieces; fry the bacon in a saute-pan over a brisk fire, then add the livers with a teaspoonful of fine herbs, and season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg; when all this is fried brown, add two or three ounces of panada (see p. 58), and pound the whole together in a mortar until well mixed; add one yolk of egg, then mix the above well together by pounding, and put the farce into a basin. Next cut six small oval croustades of bread, just large enough to hold an ortolan in each, making a slight incision round the inside of the edge of each croustade, and fry them lightly in butter; remove the inside crumb, line with a thin coating of the farce, place an ortolan in each, then put them on a greased baking-sheet and bake them in the oven. When done, glaze, and dish up, pour over some Madeira sauce (see p. 4) mixed with a small pat of anchovy butter and the juice of half a lemon, then serve. Ortolans in Croustades a la Provengale Place four or more ortolans in a sautd-pan with three tablespoonfuls of salad oil, a bruised clove of garlic, some chopped truffles, mush- rooms, and parsley; season with mignonette pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon ; fry them in this over a brisk fire for about ten minutes, adding a small piece of glaze and a tablespoonful of Espagnole sauce when done; toss the whole together, and then put the ortolans into small oval croustades of fried bread. Pour the fine herbs over them, and place them upon a baking-sheet in the oven for about a quarter of an hour that they may brown nicely; then dish up, pour some Provengale sauce (see p. 8) over, and serve. ENTREES OF WILD DUCK AND WIDGEON Salmi of Wild Duck Roast a wild duck before a brisk fire for about five-and-twenty minutes, so that it may retain all the gravy; place on its breast on a dish to get cool; then cut it up into small joints—comprising two fillets, two legs with the breast and back, each cut into two pieces— and place the whole into a braise-pan. Put the trimmings into a stew- pan with a glass or two of red wine, two shalots, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf, the grated rind of an orange free from pith, the rind and juice of a lemon, and a little cayenne ; boil these down to half their original quantity, then add a pint of worked Espagnole sauce, allow the sauce to boil, skim it, and pass it through a tammy on to the pieces of wild duck. When about to send to table warm the salmis without boiling, dish up, pour the sauce over, garnish with eight heart-shaped croutons of fried bread nicely glazed, and serve.335 ENTRIES OF WILD DUCK AND WIDGEON Salmi of Widgeon or Teal Truss two of these for roasting, place on a dish, and strew over them a thinly-sliced carrot and onion, parsley, thyme, and bay leaf; season with mignonette pepper, a little salt, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of salad oil, and allow them to steep in this marinade for twelve hours, frequently turning them over that they may become thoroughly impregnated. Then wrap them in sheets of oiled paper, and tie up with string. Roast them before a brisk fire or in the oven for fifteen minutes; let them cool, cut them up in the ordinary way for salmis, use the trimmings and the gravy that has run from the bird to make the sauce with, which is to be prepared as directed on p. 334. Pour the sauce when finished on to the pieces of wild fowl, adding some button-mushrooms; warm the salmi without boiling, dish up in a pyramidal form, garnish with croutons, pour the sauce over, and serve. Fillets of Wild Duck, Widgeon, or Teal k la Bigarade Prepare one or more wild fowl as directed in the previous recipe; cover the breasts with seasoning, wrap up securely in greased paper, and roast before a brisk fire or in the oven; when nearly done, remove the paper that they may brown slightly. Take them up, and fillet them, leaving the pinion-bones on ; score, trim, and dish up at once, placing a crouton between each fillet; add the gravy that runs from the birds to some Bigarade sauce (see p. 9), pour this over the fillets, and serve. Fillets of Wild Fowl a la Proven^ale Prepare the fillets as above, dish up in the same manner, pour some Provengale sauce (see p. 8), to which has been added a glass of Madeira, over, and serve. Widgeon a 1’Americaine Roast one or more widgeon, basting frequently with fresh butter while roasting: when done, cut up into small joints, and place in a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of red-currant jelly, the juice of a lemon, and two glasses of port wine ; allow the whole to simmer gently over a moderate fire for ten minutes; dish up the entree with fried croutons round it, pour the sauce over the widgeon, and serve. Fillets of Teal k l’Anglaise Roast one or more teal; when done, cut the fillets out, score them across, and dish up with croutons of fried bread; pour some essence of orange (see p. 40) over, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 336 ROASTS Roast Hare Skin and draw a small hare, leaving on the ears, which must be scalded, and the hairs scraped off; pick out the eyes, and cut off the feet or pads, just above the first joint; wipe the hare with a clean cloth, and cut the sinews at the back of the hind-quarters and below the fore-legs. Prepare some veal-stuffing and fill the paunch with it; sew this up with string, or fasten it with a wooden skewer, then draw the legs under, as if the hare was in a sitting posture, set the head between the shoulders, and stick a small skewer through them, running also through the neck to secure its position; run another skewer through the four legs gathered up under the paunch, then take a piece of string, double it in two, placing the centre of it on the breast of the hare, and bring both ends over the skewer, cross the string over both sides of the other skewer, and fasten it over the back. Roast the hare before a brisk fire or in the oven for about one and a half hours, frequently basting it with butter or dripping. Five minutes before taking the hare up shake some flour over it with a dredger, and baste it with some fresh butter; when this froths up, and the hare has acquired a rich brown crust, dish up with water-cress round it, pour some brown gravy under, and send some currant jelly to table to be handed round. Roast Rabbit Truss one or more rabbits in the same manner as hares, then roast them before a brisk fire or in a hot oven, frequently basting them; ten minutes before taking them up, baste the rabbits with the following preparation :—Mix a gill of cream with a tablespoonful of flour, some chopped parsley, a yolk of egg, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; mask the rabbits entirely with this, and as soon as it has dried on them, baste them with some fresh butter. This not only adds to the attractive appearance of the rabbits, but it concentrates the gravy, and prevents them from becoming dry, which generally occurs when ordinarily roasted. When done, take the rabbits up with care to avoid breaking the light-brown crust formed upon them; dish up, pour some Liver sauce, prepared as follows, under them, and serve. Liver Sauce Boil the livers, chop them finely, and put them into a small stew-pan with chopped parsley, a small piece of glaze, a pat of butter, a gill of sauce, pepper and salt, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, and a gill of gravy; stir this over the fire until it boils, and use as directed above. Roast Pheasant Draw a pheasant, singe the body and legs, rub the scaly cuticle off the legs with a cloth, trim away the claws and spurs, cut off the neck close up to the back, leaving the skin of the breast entire, wipe337 ROASTS the pheasant clean, and then truss it in the following manner:— Place the pheasant upon its breast, run a trussing-needle and string through the left pinion, then turn the bird over on its back, and place the thumb and forefinger of the left hand across the breast, holding the legs erect; thrust the needle through the middle joint of both thighs, draw it out and then pass it through the other pinion, and fasten the strings at the back; next pass the needle through the hollow of the back, just below the thighs, thrust it again through the legs and body, and tie the strings tightly: this will give an appearance of plumpness. Roast the pheasant before a brisk fire or in the oven for about half an hour, frequently basting it; when done, send to table with brown gravy under, and Bread sauce (see p. 19) separately in a sauce-boat. Roast Partridges These should be trussed, roasted, and served in the same manner as pheasants. Sometimes, for the sake of variety, both pheasants and partridges are larded in the same way as sweetbreads, but this custom is rarely practised. Roast Quails, Messina Style Truss six to eight quails for roasting, pour a dessertspoonful of brandy and truffle essence into each bird, and place them in a roast- ing-pan; put a little butter on top of each, and roast for fifteen minutes. Have ready the same number of oranges as birds; cut these into basket shapes, scoop out some of the pulp, and reduce it with half a pint of Madbre sauce. Place the quails into the orange shapes and dish up; garnish with water-cress and lemon, and serve with the pre- pared sauce. Note.—This dish can be served with Cognac brandy poured round the base of the dish, which is lighted as it is sent to table. Roast Quails Draw and truss these in the same manner as pheasants; cut some thin square slices of fat bacon just large enough to cover a quail, spread a vine leaf over each of these, cut it to their size, and then tie them neatly on the breasts of the quails. Roast them before a brisk fire or in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, then dish up, garnish round with water-cress, glaze the slices of bacon, pour some gravy under the quails, and serve. Ruffs and Reeves These birds must not be drawn, neither do they require much trussing, being very plump; a small skewer should be run through the thighs and pinions, with a string passed round it, and fastened; then cover with a layer of bacon and a vine leaf, and roast them before a brisk fire for about twenty minutes, frequently basting them with butter, and set some toasted bread under to receive the droppings. When done, dish up on square pieces of the toast, garnish with water-cress, pour some gravy under them, and serve. Ortolans are served in the same manner as the above. zTHE MODERN COOK 338 Roast Larks Cut off the heads and legs, and pick out the gizzards at the sides with the point of a small knife; season with chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and nutmeg; rub the larks over with beaten yolk of eggs, bread-crumb them, sprinkle them with clarified butter, and roll them in bread-crumbs a second time; then roast them before a very brisk fire or in a hot oven for about a quarter of an hour, basting with fresh butter. When done, dish up in rows or in a circle, fill the centre with bread-crumbs fried a light-brown colour, and serve with brown gravy. Roast Woodcock or Snipe Both these birds are trussed and roasted in the same manner. First pick them entirely, neck and head, then twist the legs at the joints so as to bring the feet down upon the thighs ; run the bill through the thighs and body, and fasten a noose with string round the bend of the joints, across the lower part of the breast; bring both ends round the head and tip of the bill, and fasten it on the back. Cover the woodcocks with layers of bacon, and tie round with string; roast them before the fire or in the oven for about nve-and-twenty minutes, frequently basting them with butter or dripping; place some toasted bread under the birds to receive the droppings from the trail, and when done, dish up with a piece of the toast under each, and water-cress round them. Serve some extract of woodcocks (see p. 41) separately in a sauce-boat. Roast Capon Draw and truss the capon as directed for trussing pheasants; and roast from one to one and a half hours, according to size. When done, dish up with water-cress, pour some bright gravy under them, and serve with Bread sauce in a boat. Pullets, fowls, chickens, and turkey poults are treated in the same manner as above. Green=Goose Draw the goose, pick off all the stubble-feathers, scald the legs, and rub the skin with a cloth ; cut the tips of the feet, and twist the legs round so as to let the web of the feet rest flat upon the thighs; then truss the goose in the ordinary way, as directed for pheasants. Roast before a brisk fire or in a hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour ; when done, dish up with water-cress round it, pour some gravy under, and serve. Ducklings are roasted and served in the same way as above. Roast Pig’eons Truss these with thin layers of fat bacon and a vine leaf over the breasts; roast before the fire or in the oven for about twenty minutes, and when done, dish up with a sauce made with the livers, in the same way as when making Liver sauce for rabbits (see p. 336)-VEGETABLES AND SALADS 339 Roast Black = Game and Grouse Both these birds should be trussed in the same way as pheasants, then roasted, and, five minutes before taking up, should be frothed with flour and butter according to the directions for roast hare; when done, dish up with gravy under, and send to table with fried bread-crumbs and Bread sauce. Pea = Hens Truss these in the same way as pheasants, except that the head must be left on and fastened at the side of the thigh; let the pea-hen be closely larded all over the breast, and roasted before a moderate fire or in an oven for about an hour; when nearly done, glaze the larding, dish up with water-cress, pour some gravy under, and serve with Bread sauce separately. Guinea=Fowls These may either be larded or covered with a layer of fat bacon; roast them for about forty minutes, glaze, and dish up with water- cress ; pour some gravy under, and serve Bread sauce separately. VEGETABLES AND SALADS Stuffed Aubergines Four medium-sized aubergines (egg-plants), 2 oz. butter, 6 mush- rooms, 2 chopped shalots, 1 oz. lean bacon, 2 oz. bread-crumbs, 1 oz. suet, 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 egg, salt, pepper, 1 gill Demi-glace sauce. Cut the aubergines or egg-plants lengthwise in halves, remove a portion of the interior to make room for the stuffing. Chop finely the bacon, mushrooms, and suet. Put the butter and bacon in a saute-pan; when hot, add the shalots and fry a little. Mix in a basin the suet, parsley, bread-crumbs (previously soaked in a little milk), and Parmesan cheese. Season with pepper and salt, add butter and shalots, also the yolk of an egg, or, if found necessary, the whole egg. Mix well, then put the stuffing in the aubergines. Range them in a buttered saute-pan, sprinkle with a mixture of bread-crumbs and grated cheese, and bake in a moderate oven for half an hour or more. Dish up and serve with Demi-glace sauce. Braised Celery with Espagnole Sauce Trim and wash four heads of celery, cut them about three inches in length, and trim the roots neatly, removing the green parts; parboil them in water for ten minutes, and then plunge into cold water; drain them on a sieve, and afterwards place them in a braise-pan with some white stock and braise them gently over a slow fire for about forty minutes; when done, drain, trim, and dish them up; garnish with some small circular croustades of fried bread, about an inch in diameter, and filled with small pieces of beef marrow (previouslyTHE MODERN COOK 34° boiled for three minutes in water with a little salt, and afterwards tossed in a stew-pan with a little liquid glaze, lemon juice, pepper and salt); pour some bright Espagnole sauce over the celery, and serve. Celery a la Villeroi Braise three or four heads of celery as before, and when done, drain, to absorb all the moisture; split each head up into pieces of four-inch lengths, mask them with some reduced Allemande sauce (see p. 3), and place upon a dish to become cold. They must then be rolled in bread-crumbs, and afterwards dipped in beaten egg and bread-crumbed over again. Just before sending to table, place the pieces of celery carefully in a frying-basket, and fry in hot fat a golden colour; drain, and dish up on a folded napkin with some fried parsley, and serve. Curried Celery Fritters For this dish the following ingredients are required: 2 sticks of white celery, £ pint thick Bechamel or other good white sauce, 1 dessertspoonful mulligatawny or curry paste, frying batter, fine salt, 1 teaspoonful curry powder, stock, frying fat. Wash and clean the celery, cut it into two-inch pieces, and cook till tender in stock or salted water. Drain the pieces on a sieve. When cold, toss them in the white sauce; previously mixed with the curry paste. The pieces must be thoroughly coated with sauce. Dip each piece of celery into frying batter, drop into hot fat, and fry to a golden colour. Drain on a cloth or paper, sprinkle with fine salt mixed with a little curry powder (just enough to colour it), dish up on a folded napkin, and send to table immediately. Note.—Asparagus, cucumber, or vegetable marrow may be cooked in the same manner. Salsify a la Creme Scrape off the outside part of a bundle of salsify, wash well, and put into a pan containing cold water with two teaspoonfuls of vinegar or lemon juice to keep them a good colour, then boil them in hot water with a little butter, mignonette pepper, salt, lemon juice, or vinegar. When done, drain, and cut up into inch lengths, and put them into a stew-pan with a gill of cream Bechamel sauce, a pat of butter, a little mignonette pepper, and lemon juice; toss over the fire, and dish up in the form of a dome; place some croutons of fried bread or fleurons round the dish, and serve. Scalloped Salsify Scrape a bundle of salsify, cut them into pieces about an inch and a half long, steep them in vinegar and water as they are being done. Boil them in salted water until tender, and drain them on a sieve. Melt an ounce of butter and fry them over a quick fire, season with grated nutmeg and Krona pepper; add half a gill of cream and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, also one teaspoonful of Anchovy sauce, and mix well. Fill up some buttered scallop-VEGETABLES AND SALADS 34i shells, strew over with bread-crumbs, sprinkle with a few drops of lemon juice and some oiled butter. Bake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes, dish up, and serve. Fried Salsify Prepare the salsify as above, and when done, drain, and cut into pieces about three inches long; put these into a basin with two tablespoonfuls of oil, one of French vinegar, some mignonette pepper, and salt; leave to steep in this until within about ten minutes before sending them to table; they must then be drained, dipped in some very light batter, and fried in hot fat; when done, drain on paper, dish up with fried parsley, and serve. Spinach with Butter Pick all the stalks from about three pounds of spinach, wash it in several waters, and drain well; put it into a stew-pan of hot water with a dessertspoonful of salt, and boil until it becomes thoroughly tender and soft to the touch; then drain and press well, plunge again into cold water, and afterwards squeeze all the water from it. It should then be rubbed through a wire-sieve, and placed in a stew-pan with about two ounces of butter, a little salt, and grated nutmeg; stir the spinach over the fire until it becomes quite warm, then add a gill of good sauce and a small piece of glaze. Work the whole together with a wooden spoon until well mixed, then pile the spinach up in the centre of the dish, smooth over the surface and garnish round with croutons, and serve. Spinach Souffles Wash and pick one and a half pounds of spinach leaves. Cook till tender in very little slightly salted water; this usually takes about twenty minutes. When done, drain, plunge it into cold water to cool, then press out all the moisture and rub through a fine sieve. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan; when hot, add the spinach, season with a pinch of cayenne and salt if needed, and stir over the fire until hot. Separate the yolks from the whites of three eggs ; work in the yolks one at a time. Remove from the fire before it boils, whip up half a gill of cream, and add to the mixture when sufficiently cold. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix in lightly with the above. Have ready a dozen small souffle cases, fasten with a band of white paper, buttered, about an inch wide. Pour in the souffle mixture, and bake in a moderately heated oven for twenty minutes. Dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Spinach with Poached Eggs Procure the following: 2 lbs. spinach, 1 oz. butter, i oz. flour, x tablespoonful cream, salt and pepper, 3 to 4 poached eggs. Pick off the stalks and brown leaves, and wash the spinach in several waters. Drain it, and put it in a stew-pan with just enoughTHE MODERN COOK 342 water to keep it from burning; add a teaspoonful of salt, and a very small piece of soda or a little moist sugar. When cooked sufficiently, put the spinach into a colander and press the moisture from it, then mb through a wire-sieve. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, add the flour, and cook a little; put in the spinach and moisten with a little stock or gravy. Stir till it boils, and simmer for at least ten minutes. Lastly add the cream and season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg or cayenne. Poach the eggs very carefully in water contain- ing a little salt and a small quantity of vinegar or lemon juice. Take up and trim the eggs. Dish up the spinach and place the eggs neatly on top of it. Serve hot. Spinach with Cream Prepare the spinach as above, season with a little nutmeg, salt, and two ounces of fresh butter; stir over the fire until quite warm, then add a gill of double cream and a small dessertspoonful of castor sugar ; mix the whole well together over the fire, and dish up the spinach as before directed. Endive with Cream Pick off all the outer leaves of two or three endives, leaving only the white ; trim the roots, and wash the endives in several waters, carefully removing any insects that may be concealed in the inner folds of the leaves. Put a large stew-pan half filled with water on a brisk fire, and when it boils, add the endives, with a dessertspoonful of salt, and allow them to continue boiling fast until they become quite tender; drain them in a colander, then plunge in cold water and squeeze all the moisture from them. Then chop them very finely, and pass them through a coarse wire-sieve. Place them in a stew-pan with two ounces of fresh butter, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; stir over the fire for ten minutes, add a gill of double cream, a gill of Bechamel or Veloute sauce, and a small dessertspoonful of castor sugar; keep the endives boiling until sufficiently reduced so as to be able to pile them on a dish when sending to table; garnish with crofttons or fleurons, and serve. Braised Endive Trim and wash three to four large heads of endive, blanch them in slightly salted water and drain them on a sieve or colander. Cut each head in two or three portions, four-inch lengths ; tie up each with thin twine. Range them in a well-buttered sauffi-pan, season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and moisten with half a pint of rich stock. Cut two to three slices of streaky bacon into strips, fry them a little, and put these on top of the endive. Cover the pan and put it in a hot oven to cook the contents for about thirty minutes. When done, take up, drain the endive, and reduce the liquor or stock, adding to it a little brown or Espagnole sauce, and a small piece of meat glaze. Dress the endive on a vegetable dish, strain over some of the sauce, and serve hot.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 343 Cauliflower with White Sauce Remove the green stalks of one or two cauliflowers, divide them into quarters, and with the point of a small knife pick out all the small leaves; wash the cauliflowers, and boil them in hot water with a little mignonette pepper, a pat of butter, and some salt: when done, drain them upon a sieve. Take a round-bottomed basin and fill it with the cauliflowers, placing the flowerets next the sides that the white only may show when dished up; after which, turn the cauliflowers out on to a dish, pour some white sauce over them, garnish with fleurons, and serve. Cauliflower au Gratin Prepare and dish up one or more cauliflowers as above. Put half a pint of Bechamel or Veloute sauce into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, an ounce of fresh butter, a small piece of glaze, some lemon juice, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; stir this preparation over the fire until well mixed without boiling, then pour it over the cauliflowers so as to mask them entirely. Smooth the dome over with the blade of a knife and sprinkle the top with grated Parmesan cheese; place in the oven to gratinate for about a quarter of an hour; when nicely browned, put a border of croutons of fried bread round, and serve. The croutons may be stuck round the bottom of the dish in the form of a coronet, previous to dishing up the cauliflowers, so as to prevent them from spreading. Tomatoes a la Provengale Choose six to eight even-sized ripe tomatoes, scoop out the centre without breaking the sides of the fruit, and place in a stew-pan containing about a gill of salad oil. Next chop up six or eight mushrooms, a sprig or two of parsley, and two shalots; put these into a stew-pan with one ounce of scraped fat bacon, and an equal proportion of lean ham, either chopped or grated finely; season with pepper and salt and a little chopped thyme. Fry these over the fire for about five minutes; then mix in the yolk of an egg, fill the tomatoes with this preparation, shake some browned bread-crumbs over them, and place in a brisk oven or hold under the salamander for about ten minutes, by which time they will be done. Dish up in the form of a dome, sprinkle with chopped parsley, pour round some Brown or Italian sauce (see p. 5), and serve. Tomatoes a la Chasseur For this dish the following ingredients are required: 1 lb. tomatoes, 4 oz. cracknel biscuits, ^ gill cream, 2 oz. butter, 1 tea- spoonful chopped parsley, a pinch castor sugar, 1 dessertspoonful Lemco, 6 to 8 fresh cup mushrooms, pepper and salt. Boil the tomatoes in slightly salted water; strain off the water and rub the tomatoes through a sieve. Soak the biscuits in tepid water or milk and pass them through a sieve. Mix them with the tomatoes in a stew-pan, add half the butter, the Lemco, the sugar,THE MODERN COOK 344 and enough salt and pepper to taste. Stir until it boils, then add the cream and keep hot. Wash, clean, and dry the mushrooms, fry them in the remainder of the butter, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley. Put the tomato puree in a round dish, surround with the fried mushrooms. Sprinkle over the remainder of chopped parsley, and serve hot.. Tomatoes with Foie=Gras This is an excellent and tasty dish for which the remains of a Foie-Gras Paffi or a small terrine of foie-gras will come in handy. Select eight firm, ripe tomatoes of even size. Dip each for a few seconds in boiling water and remove the skin. Scoop out carefully the centre portion of each tomato. Chop the foie-gras rather small, removing all fat, and mix with three to four tablespoonfuls of stiff Mayonnaise sauce; season with salt, pepper, and paprika, and fill the cavities of the tomatoes with this. Place the tomatoes, cut side downwards, on a wire tray, and coat each with a thin layer of half-set aspic jelly. Dish up, and garnish the tomatoes with tarragon leaves, chervil, and truffle. Surround the dish with picked and washed water-cress, and serve. Cold Stuffed Tomatoes Dip for a few seconds six to eight small tomatoes (ripe but firm) into boiling water, and remove the skins. Cut each half-way through the centre with a round paste-cutter. Scoop out the pulp by means of a teaspoon. Place the tomatoes on the ice or in a cool place. Rub the pulp through a fine sieve and mix it with Mayonnaise sauce; to this add sufficient finely chopped ham and mushrooms, then fill the tomatoes with it. Put a slice of cucumber on the top of each, and a star-shaped slice of beetroot in the centre. Dish up neatly in a nest of small salad, which should be sprinkled over with a little oil and vinegar. Tomatoes au Gratin Chop finely 4 oz. of cooked cold ham, 1 oz. of beef suet or fat bacon, and 3 to 4 mushrooms. Mix these with 1 teaspoonful of chopped parsley, add a grate or two of lemon rind. Fry these ingredients in a little butter, then season, and moisten with a beaten egg. Remove the stalks from four large ripe but firm tomatoes, wipe them, and cut each in half. Scoop out some of the pulp, which may, if liked, be mixed with the stuffing. Put enough of the mixture in each half of the tomatoes so as to completely fill same. Sprinkle the top with bread-crumbs, and place a small piece of butter in the centre of each. Bake in a fairly hot oven for fifteen minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Mushrooms au Gratin Cut the stalks of ten or twelve large fresh mushrooms, trim the edges and remove the skin, then fill each mushroom with a similar preparation to that used in the last recipe; shake some browned345 VEGETABLES AND SALADS crumbs over them, and place in a saute-pan thickly spread with butter; put them in the oven for about a quarter of an hour to gratinate, and then dish up in a pyramidal form; pour some Brown Italian sauce round, and serve. Truffles a la Serviette Wash and brush twelve large fresh truffles, drain them, and then place in a casserole lined with thin layers of fat bacon; pour some wine mirepoix (see p. 57) over, place some layers of bacon on the top, and put on the fire; the lid must then be put on, and hermeti- cally sealed with stiff flour and water paste to preserve the flavour of the truffles. Leave to simmer gently by the side of a slow fire or in the oven for about three-quarters of an hour, then dish up, and send the following sauce separately in a sauce-boat:—Mix half a gill of the finest salad oil with a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, the juice of a lemon, some mignonette pepper, a little salt, and a table- spoonful of half-glaze (made by boiling down about a gill of the mirepoix in which the truffles have been boiled), and send to table in a sauce-boat. Truffles a la Piemontaise Slice half a pound of prepared fresh truffles, place them in a saute- pan with three tablespoonfuls of Lucca oil, one of chopped parsley, a little chopped thyme, a clove of garlic, some mignonette pepper, and salt; fry over a brisk fire for five minutes, remove the garlic, then add half a pint of Italian or Espagnole sauce, a small piece of glaze, and the juice of half a lemon; toss the whole together over the fire, and pour it over the hollow crusts of two baked French rolls from which the top crust part has been removed. Spanish Onions a 1’Espagnole Peel four to six onions, and stamp out the cores with a long vegetable cutter about a quarter of an inch in diameter; parboil them in water for ten minutes, and then drain them upon a cloth. Spread the bottom of a deep stew-pan with butter, place the onions in it, moisten with enough stock to just cover them, and leave them to boil gently over a slow fire for three hours, occasionally turning them in their liquor; when they are nearly done, add a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, boil them down quickly to a glaze, and when this is done roll the onions in it, and dish them up in a close circle. Next pour a gill of bright Espagnole sauce into the remainder of the glaze, boil together over the fire, pour round the onions, and serve. Note.—These onions are better adapted for garnishing removes of braised beef, etc., than for being served as a second-course dish. Artichokes with Butter Sauce Trim the bottoms of six globe artichokes, cut off the tips of the leaves, and boil them in water with a little salt for about three- quarters of an hour; when done, drain, and plunge in cold water for346 THE MODERN COOK five minutes; loosen the fibrous substance in the inside with the handle of a tablespoon, and after this has been all removed from the artichokes, put them back into some hot water for a few minutes to warm through; drain them upside down upon a cloth to absorb all the moisture, and then dish up on a napkin; pour a little Butter sauce inside each, and send up some of the sauce in a sauce-boat. Artichokes a la Barigoule Trim three small globe artichokes, and with the handle of a spoon scoop out all the fibrous part inside. Then fry the bottoms of the artichokes in a frying-pan with hot fat for about three minutes, turn them upside down, and fry the tips of the leaves also; drain to absorb all the fat, and fill them with a similar preparation to that mentioned below; cover over with layers of fat bacon, tie up with string, and place in a large braise-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon; moisten with a glass of white wine and a little good consomme, or with some wine mirepoix (see p. 57); put the lid on, and after they have boiled up on the fire, place the artichokes in the oven to simmer very gently for about an hour. When done, drain, remove the strings and the bacon, fill the centre of each artichoke with some Italian sauce (see p. 5), dish up with some of the sauce in a sauce-boat, and serve. Artichokes a la Lyonnaise Pull off the lower leaves of three globe artichokes without damaging the bottoms, which must be scraped smooth with a sharp knife; cut the artichokes into quarters, remove the fibrous parts, trim neatly and parboil them in water with a little salt for about five minutes; drain them in a colander and plunge them in cold water, after which drain them upon a cloth, and arrange in circular order in a saute-pan thickly spread with fresh butter; sprinkle a dessert- spoonful of castor sugar over, season with mignonette pepper and salt, moisten with a glass of white wine and half a pint of good consomme, and place on a slow fire to simmer very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care that they do not burn. When done, they should be of a deep-yellow colour and nicely glazed; dish up in the form of a dome, showing the bottom of the artichokes only; remove any leaves that may have broken off in the stew-pan, add a gill of bright Espagnole sauce and some lemon juice; simmer this over the fire, stirring with a spoon, pour it over the artichokes, and serve. Artichokes en Surprise Twelve small Jerusalem artichokes, x terrine foie-gras (size No. 12), 6 mushrooms, £ gill Bechamel sauce, seasoning, frying batter, frying fat, parsley and lemon to garnish. Wash and scrape the artichokes, peel each to a neat round or oval, and cook in salted water till nearly tender, then drain and scoop out the interior of each. Pound the foie-gras previously freed from347 VEGETABLES AND SALADS fat, moisten with the white sauce, and season to taste; then add the mushrooms finely chopped, and fill the artichokes with the puree thus obtained. Dip each into a light frying batter so as to completely cover or coat the artichokes, and fry them to a golden colour in deep hot fat. Drain carefully, dish up, and garnish with thinly cut slices of lemon and fried parsley. Artichokes a l’ltalienne These are prepared in the manner described in the previous recipe, except that when about to finish them, Brown Italian sauce (see p. 5) must be substituted for Espagnole. Asparagus with White Sauce Choose some asparagus of even size, if possible. Pick the loose leaves from the heads and scrape the stalks clean, wash them in a pan of cold water, and tie up in small bundles of about twelve in each, keeping all the heads turned the same way; cut the stalks evenly. Put the asparagus in hot water, with a little salt in it, to boil for about twenty minutes, and when tender, drain carefully upon a napkin to avoid breaking off the heads ; dish them up on a square thick piece of toasted bread dipped in the water they have been boiled in, and send to table with some white sauce or oiled butter separately in a sauce-boat. Asparagus=Points a la Creme Boil a pint of asparagus-points in plenty of salted boiling water; when done, drain in a colander, plunge in cold water for three minutes, and then drain them upon a sieve. Next place the asparagus-points in a stew-pan with a bunch of mint, one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a little grated nutmeg, and salt; put the lid on, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire for ten minutes. Then remove the mint, and incorporate with the points a liaison of one yolk of egg mixed with half a gill of cream ; toss the points over the fire to set the liaison, and dish up in the form of a dome, with a border of fleurons, and serve. Asparagus Rolls Cook half a bundle of green asparagus tips or a bundle of sprue (asparagus) in salted water, and drain on a sieve. Next put them in a stew-pan with a few finely sliced mushrooms and two slices of ham or tongue, also cut into fine shreds. Blend with and mix with Bechamel or Velout£ sauce, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and keep hot. Cut three to four very small dinner rolls in half, scoop out the crumby part of each half, and dry them crisp in the oven. Fill each roll with the above mixture, coat the top with white sauce, besprinkle with bread-crumbs and grated cheese. Place a small piece of butter in the centre, and put in a hot oven long enough to brown the surface. Dish up on a folded napkin, and send to table hot.348 THE MODERN COOK Asparagus Salad Boil a bundle of cleaned asparagus until tender in salted water ; when cold, cut the soft part of each stick into inch pieces, or longer if liked. Dress with Vinaigrette composed of oil, vinegar, pepper and salt, and finely chopped parsley, or mix with Mayonnaise dressing. This salad is equally nice dressed hot, in which case a Vinaigrette dressing is preferable to the Mayonnaise. Asparagus with Carrots Prepare and cook half a bundle of green asparagus the same as directed for Asparagus Fricassee. Scrape or peel thinly twelve to eighteen young carrots; if large, cut into quarters, and cook them in salted water or stock till tender. Mix asparagus and carrots, and blend with Veloute sauce or Bechamel. Season to taste, and cook gently for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Asparagus Fricassee Proceed to clean a bundle of asparagus in the usual way. Cut off the hard portion, and see that the skin of the white part is carefully peeled off, else it will eat tough. Boil them till three parts done, and finish cooking in a well-seasoned white sauce (Bechamel mixed with cream is best). Great care must be taken not to mash up the asparagus whilst cooking. Dish up in the centre of a round dish, garnish with fleurons or fried bread croutons, and serve. French Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel Pick and string one pound of French beans, cut them up, and shred each bean into three or four strips; wash them in plenty of water, drain them in a colander, and throw them into a stew-pan of salted boiling water to boil briskly until tender: they must be drained in a colander, then plunged in cold water for five minutes and drained to absorb all moisture. Next put a pint of Bechamel or Supreme sauce into a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, a very little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon; stir these well together over the fire, and when thoroughly mixed throw in the beans, and toss the whole together over the fire until quite hot ■, then dish up with a border of croutons round, and serve. French Beans with Fine Herbs Boil one pound of beans as directed above. Put one ounce of fresh butter into a stew-pan with a tablespoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, and two shalots also chopped, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon ; simmer this over the fire until melted, and then throw the beans in, toss the whole together, and dish up with crofltons round. Broad Beans & la Creme Boil one pound of young broad beans in water with some salt; when done, drain them in a colander, put them into a stew-pan with349 VEGETABLES AND SALADS two ounces of fresh butter, some chopped parsley, and as much chopped winter savory as will cover the tip of a spoon, pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; toss the beans over the fire for five minutes, and then incorporate with them a liaison of two yolks of eggs and the juice of half a lemon ; when the liaison is cooked, dish up with fleurons round, and serve. Green Peas Shell a pint of peas and put them into boiling water with some salt and a small bunch of green mint; keep them boiling briskly for about twenty minutes, and when done drain them in a colander, and dish up with chopped boiled mint on the top. Send some small pats of fresh butter separately to table. Creamed Peas Take a pint of cooked green peas (preserved ones will do when fresh ones are not obtainable); heat them up in boiling water contain- ing salt and a sprig of green mint. Drain off the water, and put the peas into a saute- or small stew-pan with three to four tablespoonfuls of cream; season, with salt and pepper, also a good pinch of castor sugar, add further a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and stir carefully over the fire until the peas are thoroughly hot. The cream must not be allowed to boil. A little fresh butter may be added to the peas if liked. Dish up and serve hot. Stewed Peas Put one and a half pints of young peas into a pan with two ounces of butter and plenty of cold water; rub the peas and butter together with the fingers until well mixed; then pour off the water, and put the peas into a stew-pan with a cabbage-lettuce shred small, a bunch of herbs, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, and a little salt; put the lid on, and leave to stew very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour. Next put about two ounces of fresh butter on a plate with a dessertspoonful of flour, and knead them together; put this into the peas, and toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed; dish the peas up, garnish with fleurons, and serve. Peas a la Frangaise These are prepared as above directed, omitting the lettuce; stew them in the same manner, and when done add a little light-coloured glaze, and finish with two ounces of kneaded butter and flour, with a little more sugar than before. Glazed Turnips Cut about a dozen pieces of turnips into the form of rings about two inches in diameter, or else in the shape of small pears ; put them into a deep stew-pan thickly spread with fresh butter and sprinkled with about a tablespoonful of castor sugar; moisten with about half a pint of good consomm£, and set the turnips to simmer very gently for about forty minutes; when nearly done, remove the lid, and place over a brisk fire to boil the moisture downTHE MODERN COOK 35° to glaze, gently rolling the turnips in this, with great care, to avoid breaking them. They must then be dished up in neat order, and the glaze poured over them. New Carrots a la Creme Wash and scrape a bunch of young carrots and boil them in plenty of slightly salted water till tender; drain them on a sieve or colander. Heat up in a saute-pan one ounce of butter, put in the carrots, shake them over the fire for a.few minutes, sprinkle over a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with a gill of white stock. Stir till it boils, then add two tablespoonfuls of cream, one table- spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and castor sugar to taste, and cook gently for ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Young Carrots a l’Allemande Trim two bunches of spring carrots, keeping their original shape but making them equal in size; parboil them in water with a little salt for about ten minutes; then drain, and plunge them in cold water, afterwards drain again, and lay them upon a cloth. Next place the carrots in a deep stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, an equal proportion of loaf sugar, and about half a pint of good consomme ; put the lid on, and leave the carrots to boil very gently for about half an hour; then put them to boil briskly until their liquor is reduced to glaze, when they must be gently rolled in this and dished up in a round-bottomed basin, so as to form a perfect dome when turned out; pour round some Allemande sauce (mixed with a little chopped and parboiled parsley and the remainder of the glaze) over the carrots, and serve. Cucumber a la Royale Peel thinly one large or two medium-sized cucumbers, cut them into inch-thick slices or cubes, and with a small pastry-cutter cut out the centre portion of each. Place them in a pie-dish, and marinade them with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. Mix a jar of potted meat with a little cream or fresh butter. Fill the cavities of the cucumber shapes with this. Dish up on a folded napkin, put a slice of ripe tomato on top of each, and garnish with a hard-boiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve and placed in the centre of the tomato. Garnish the dish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Stuffed Cucumber a la Josephine One good-sized cucumber, 3 oz. cooked chicken or veal, 6 small mushrooms, 1 oz. cooked ham, J gill white sauce, £ gill aspic, and \ gill fresh cream. Cut the cucumber into one-inch-thick slices, peel thinly, and stamp out the inside by means of a pastry cutter. Blanch the pieces in salted water and drain on a cloth. Pound the meat, mushrooms, and ham together in a mortar; when fine, rub through a sieve. Put the pur£e in a stew-pan, season with pepper, a little salt, and a pinch of grated nutmeg, warm up the sauce and aspicVEGETABLES AND SALADS 351 together, stir over the ice till it begins to set, then add the cream previously whipped. Stamp out some rounds of brown bread a little larger than the cucumber shapes, spread over with some of the above prepared pur£e, place a round of cucumber on each and fill up the centre of each with the puree (pile up high). Decorate tastefully with some creamed butter and lobster butter, dish up, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Vegetable Marrow Peel and cut the vegetable marrow, according to size, into four, six, or eight pieces, just as oranges are divided; trim them neatly, place them in a deep stew-pan thickly spread with butter, and season with a very little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and a teaspoonful of castor sugar; moisten with half a pint of white stock, and boil gently over the fire for about ten minutes; then boil them down in their glaze; toss them gently in this, and dish up neatly in a conical form. Pour a little Espagnole sauce into the stew-pan and simmer it with the remainder of the glaze, mix in a pat of butter and the juice of half a lemon, pour this over the vegetable marrow, and serve. Baked Vegetable Marrow Peel thinly two fair-sized vegetable marrows, cut each in half, remove the seeds, and parboil in slightly salted water. Take up the marrows and drain them on a sieve, then cut them into slices not too small. Have ready an oval baking-dish, butter it well, and place in it the sliced marrows. Sprinkle each layer with salt and pepper, and a little white sauce, spread a little sauce over the surface, and cover with a few bread-crumbs and some grated cheese, also a few little bits of butter. Bake for about half an hour in a hot oven, and send to table in the baking-dish, which must be placed in a larger dish, covered with a folded napkin. Vegetable Marrow a la Bechamel Peel and prepare the vegetable marrow as above, boil it gently in water with a little salt, drain and dish up; pour some white sauce or Bechamel over, and serve. Cucumber a la Poulette Peel and cut a medium-sized cucumber into slices about half an inch in diameter, put them into a basin with a tablespoonful of salt and twice that proportion of vinegar, and allow them to steep in this for several hours. Then pour off all the moisture from the slices and put them into a stew-pan with one ounce of fresh butter, a very little grated nutmeg, and a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire until quite tender. The butter must then be poured off, and a gill of Veloute sauce added; simmer the cucumber over the fire for a few minutes, finish by incorporating half a gill of cream, a teaspoonful of chopped and parboiled parsley, and the juice of half a lemon ; dish up with a border of fleurons, and serve.352 THE MODERN COOK Cucumber a l’Espagnole Cut a medium-sized cucumber into lengths of about two inches, scoop out all the seeds, pare off the skins, and trim them round and smooth at the ends; parboil them in water and salt for five minutes, and then drain them. Fill each piece of cucumber with some quenelle force-meat of chicken (see p. 59); place them in neat order in a deep stew-pan lined with thin layers of fat bacon, and cover with the same; moisten with consomme, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire for about half an hour; when tender, drain and dish up in a pyramidal form, pour some bright Espagnole sauce over, and serve. Jerusalem Artichokes Wash and scrape one to two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes thoroughly in plenty of water, cut them in the form of large olives or small pears; boil them in water with a little salt and demon juice for about twenty minutes; when done, drain and dish up neatly, pour some Butter sauce (see p. 17) over, and serve. Jerusalem Artichokes a ITtalienne Take one and a half pounds of artichokes, scrub and peel and place them in a saute-pan thickly spread with butter; season with mignonette pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon juice; moisten with a little consomme, put the lid on, and leave to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about half an hour. Roll them in their glaze, dish up, pour some Italian sauce round, and serve. White Haricot Beans a la Maitre d’Hotel Soak half a pound of dried haricots all night. Put a large stew- pan, half filled with cold water, on the fire to boil; add the beans, with a pat of butter and a little salt, and boil until they are tender; drain them in a colander; then put them into a stew-pan with about one ounce of fresh butter, a little pepper and salt, some chopped parsley, and lemon juice; toss well together over the fire until well mixed, then dish up with croutons round them, and serve. Flageolet Beans a la Poulette Blanch and cook in salted water one pint of green flageolets. String and cook in Salted water half a pound of small French beans or Jersey beans cut into lozenge shapes. Scrape or peel thinly half a bunch of young carrots, cook them, finish them in a little rich stock, then glaze them with a little meat glaze and chopped parsley. Toss the flageolets in a saute-pan with a little butter over the fire, and enough white sauce and cream to moisten them, and reheat; then add half the French beans previously tossed in butter, and about a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley. Season with pepper, a pinch of nutmeg, and a pinch of castor sugar. Dish up in an earthenware cocotte dish, and garnish with the remainder of French beans (tossed in butter) so arranged as to form a border. Garnish353 VEGETABLES AND SALADS the surface with about a dozen young carrots, glazed, and a similar number of small fleurons placed round the base of the dish. Serve hot. If liked, a few drops of lemon juice can be mixed with the flageo- lets just before serving, also a few small slices of cooked young carrots. White Haricot Beans a la Bretonne Boil half a pound of dried haricot beans as before, and when done, drain them in a colander, put them into a stew-pan with some Bretonne sauce (see p. 8), and leave to simmer over the fire for five minutes; shake well together, and dish up as above. American Yam a la Frangaise Scrub and peel a good-sized yam and cut it into slices about half an inch thick, trim into rather large oval-shaped scallops, and throw into a panful of water. Wash and drain them upon a cloth, then put them in a sauce-pan thickly spread with fresh butter, and season with a little grated nutmeg and salt; moisten with a pint of stock or water, put the lid on, and leave to simmer gently over a slow fire for about three-quarters of an hour, taking care to turn them occasionally that they may brown on both sides; dish up piled up in rows, pour the following sauce under, and serve:—Knead neatly one ounce of fresh butter with a dessertspoonful of flour, put it into a stew-pan with a gill of cream, a teaspoonful of castor sugar, a very little salt, and a teaspoonful of orange-flower water; stir this over the fire until it thickens, and then use as directed. Potatoes a la Maitre d’Hotel Boil or steam some small kidney potatoes in the ordinary way, and when done, cut them into slices about an eighth of an inch thick, put them into a stew-pan with a good gill of white sauce or stock, one ounce of butter, some pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and lemon juice; toss over the fire until the butter, etc., is mixed in with the potatoes, then dish up with crofitons round, and serve. Ribbon Potatoes Wash and peel thinly six potatoes, cut them into slices about half an inch thick. With a sharp knife peel each slice as thinly as possible into the shape of a ribbon, taking care that it does not break; tie it up carefully into a bow. Drop each ribbon, or bow into a pan of cold water, and continue to cut the remainder of slices as described. A few minutes before frying, take the potatoes out of the water and drain them very carefully on a cloth. Have ready a pan half full of clean frying fat, and when sufficiently hot drop in the potato shapes and fry a golden colour. If the pan is small fry only a few at a time. Drain the fried potatoes, sprinkle them with fine salt just enough to season lightly, dish up in pyramid form on a round dish, and serve. 2 A354 THE MODERN COOK Qriddled Potatoes Cook one and a half pounds of kidney potatoes in their skins; when cold, peel and cut them into long slices, not too thin. Melt one and a half ounces of butter in an omelet-pan; when hot, put in the potatoes, season with salt and paprika or krona pepper, and fry them over a fairly quick fire for five minutes, then place them in a hot oven for another ten minutes. Dish up, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped chives. Baked Potatoes in Cream Parboil one and a half pounds of washed and peeled kidney potatoes, and cut into halves or quarters. Drain them, and put them in a stew-pan with half a gill of cream and one gill of Bechamel sauce. Season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and cook gently for twenty minutes, stirring occasionally. Butter a baking- dish and strew it with fried bread-crumbs; fill it with the prepared potatoes, sprinkle over with some bits of grated cheese, and place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top. Brown the surface of the dish in a sharp oven for about ten minutes, and serve. Potato Chips Wash and peel thinly the potatoes, cut them crossways into thin slices, wash them again, and drain on a cloth. Have ready suffi- cient clean fat in a deep frying-pan, and let it get thoroughly hot; a bluish smoke arising from it will indicate the proper heat when the potatoes must be plunged in. Use a frying-basket for this purpose. Shake the basket for a few minutes and let the potatoes acquire a golden colour; then take them up, allow the fat to drain off in shaking the basket lightly, season with fine salt, and put them on a paper to drain them thoroughly. Dish up and serve hot. Parisian Potatoes Wash and peel eight to nine potatoes. With a round vegetable scoop, scoop out little balls like marbles. Cook them in boiling, salted water for ten minutes. Drain them on a sieve, put them in a saute-pan with one ounce of butter, and bake for ten minutes in a sharp oven. Souffle or Puffed Potatoes To make souffle or puffed potatoes use oval-shaped Dutch potatoes, or, at any rate, potatoes that are neither too mealy nor too watery or waxy. Peel them as thinly as possible, and cut them lengthwise into slices about one-sixth of an inch thick. Plunge them into clarified fat (deep fat) heated to 210° Fahrenheit, and let them cook till tender but not brown. Take them up, and have ready another pan of fat heated to 250°, into which plunge the potatoes and fry them a second time. Shake the pan continually whilst the potatoes are frying; they ought then to acquire a puffed appearance and become a nice golden colour. Drain carefully, season with fine salt, and dish up on a folded napkin.355 VEGETABLES AND SALADS Potatoes a la Creole Wash, scrape, and blanch in salted water, containing a little lemon juice, two dozen new kidney potatoes. Drain, and cut them into fairly thick slices. Cook these for about fifteen minutes in a little rich veal stock ; season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Butter a fire-proof vegetable dish, put in the potatoes in layers, with Bechamel sauce, enriched with cream, between each. Cover the top layer with sauce, besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and oiled butter and a few fresh bread-crumbs, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. New Potatoes a la Creme Cut some freshly boiled new potatoes in slices, put them into a stew-pan with a gill of cream, one ounce of fresh butter, a very little nutmeg, pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon; boil up together on the fire, toss well, and dish up with croutons. Potatoes a la Creme au Gratin Cut some cold, boiled potatoes in slices about an inch thick ; prepare the same kind of mixture as directed for Cauliflower au gratin (see p. 343); put some neatly cut pointed croutons of fried bread round the bottom of the dish, in the form of a coronet; place a circular row of the slices of potatoes within this border of croutons ; spread a layer of the mixture over them ; then repeat the row of potatoes, and the mixture, until the dish is complete. Smooth the top over with some of the sauce, sprinkle some browned bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese over; put the potatoes in the oven for about twenty minutes, to warm through, and serve. Sea=kale with Butter Sauce Prepare the sea-kale and tie up in small bundles. Cook it in boiling water with a little salt for about twenty minutes, until tender: drain and dish up on a piece of toast, and send some Butter sauce (see p. 17) separately to table. Note.—Sea-kale may also be served with Espagnole or Bechamel sauce, in which case it must be placed in the dish, and the Bechamel or Espagnole sauce poured over it; if the latter, a pat of butter and a little lemon juice should be first incorporated with it. Brussels Sprouts Boil one and a half pounds of sprouts, and put them into a stew- pan with one ounce of fresh butter, some mignonette pepper, nutmeg, salt, and lemon juice, and a gill of Veloute sauce; toss the whole well together over the fire until the butter is well mixed; then dish up with a border of fleurons, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 3 56 SALADS Italian Salad Boil a head of fine white cauliflower, two tablespoonfuls of asparagus-points, French beans cut in diamonds, a few new potatoes (which after being boiled must be stamped out with a small vegetable cutter), a gill of green peas, and three artichoke bottoms, also cut up in small fancy shapes when boiled. All these vegetables must be prepared with great care, in order that they may retain their original colour; the cauliflower should be cut up in small buds or flowerets, and the whole, when done, put into a basin. Next boil a beetroot, three large new potatoes, and one dozen large-sized heads of very green asparagus, or a similar quantity of French beans; cut the beetroot and potatoes in two-inch lengths, and with a tin vegetable cutter, a quarter of an inch in diameter, punch out about two dozen small pillar-shaped pieces of each, and put these on a dish, with an equal quantity of asparagus-heads or French beans cut to the same length. Then take a plain border-mould, and place the green vegetables in neat and close order all round the bottom of the mould; taking care that a small quantity of aspic jelly must be first poured in the mould, for the purpose of holding together the pieces of French beans. Next line the sides of the mould by placing the pieces of beetroot and potatoes alternately, each of which must be previously dipped in some bright aspic jelly; when the whole is complete, fill the border up with aspic jelly. Preparatory to placing the vegetables, the mould must be surrounded by crushed ice. When about to send to table, turn the vegetable border out of the mould on to a dish ; after the vegetables have been seasoned, by adding to them half a gill of aspic jelly, a tablespoonful cf oil, one of tarragon vinegar, some pepper and salt, and when the whole has been gently tossed together, they should be neatly placed in the centre of the border, in a pyramidal form. Ornament with bold croutons of bright aspic jelly, and serve. Russian Salad Cut a small lobster in neat pieces and place them in a basin , to these add some small fillets of anchovies, about two ounces of tunny fish cut up, a dozen olives farcies, and a good tablespoonful of French capers; then add a sufficient quantity of red Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 24) to moisten these ingredients; mix the whole together, and use this preparation to fill an aspic border of vegetables similar to that described in the previous recipe. Finish in the same manner, and serve. German Salad Remove the skin from the fillets of two Dutch herrings, cut these up into pieces, and put them into a basin ; with a sharp knife shave some very thin slices of cooked beef, and add to the pieces of herrings,357 SALADS with a dozen olives cut into fancy shapes, some cooked beetroot, cut or stamped out in fancy shapes, and some curled celery; then add sufficient Remoulade sauce (see p. 23) to moisten the whole, and use this preparation to fill a vegetable border as directed in the two previous recipes. Haricot Bean Salad The white haricot is one of the most nourishing of vegetables, but at the same time it is difficult to digest. When it is dressed as a salad, however, the oil renders it more digestible. Use the same seasoning as for an ordinary salad, adding, if desired, some chopped chives. After cooking the haricots, they should be steeped in cold water for a few hours. Mixed Haricot Salad A mixture of equal quantities of French beans and white haricots is one of the best of salads. Boil separately, and when they have been drained and cooled, mix together and season with oil, vinegar, pepper, salt, chervil, finely chopped parsley, and chives. French Bean Salad Choose very green and young French beans. Cut away the ends, and boil the beans in salt water. The water should boil before the beans are put in if they are to be served quite green. Put them into a salad bowl, and season like an ordinary salad. Just before serving, sprinkle over a little chopped chervil and parsley. Chantecler Salad Peel and slice thinly three not overripe bananas and one small sour apple 3 slice also one small cooked and pickled beetroot. Wash and drain the hearts of three young French lettuces, and divide the leaves into small portions (they must not be cut with a knife). Mix these ingredients carefully with the strained juice of a lemon, four tablespoonfuls of best olive oil, and the hard-boiled yolks of two eggs 3 season with salt and pepper. Dish up in a salad bowl, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped tarragon leaves. Toulouse Salad Wash and trim two firm cabbage lettuces, divide them into small leaves, drain well, and mix with half a pint of cooked asparagus-points (sprue), one peeled and sliced or shredded tomato, and one sliced truffle. Season each separately, and dress by bouquets in a salad bowl. Put a little Mayonnaise or Tartare sauce in the centre of the bowl, and serve. Derby Salad This salad consists chiefly of cooked vegetables, the same as for Russian salad. Take equal quantities of cooked green peas, flageolets, French beans, carrots and turnips cut into dice, and mix these with one-sixth of piccalilli cut similarly. Decorate a border-358 THE MODERN COOK mould, previously lined with aspic jelly, with slices of gherkins, truffles, and hard-boiled white of egg, and fill the centre with vegetable Macedoine mixed with Mayonnaise and sufficient aspic to set. When this is set, turn out the border on a cold dish, mix the salad with Mayonnaise, and pile up high in the centre of the dish. Henri IV. Salad Slice thinly half a small peeled cucumber, one small aubergine, and three to four small peeled tomatoes. Cut these into fine julienne strips, also four to six ounces of cooked ox-tongue, and one large pimiento. Blend all carefully, and season liberally with Vinaigrette dressing containing chopped gherkins and capers. Ambigue Salad Trim, wash, and dry on a cloth two French lettuces, then cut them into coarse julienne strips; add one-third of cooked asparagus-tips and the finely shredded meat of a fresh crab; season to taste and mix with Mayonnaise. Dress the salad neatly in a salad bowl, and garnish with slices of hard-boiled egg and Spanish pimiento. Hortoise Salad Cut into thin slices two black radishes, one small bunch of washed and trimmed spring radishes, and one peeled cucumber; shred finely one Spanish pimiento. Blend all carefully together, and season liber- ally with Vinaigrette mixed with one teaspoonful of French mustard, chopped chives, and a few tarragon leaves. Dish up and serve. Egg Salad a la Printaniere Mix three hard-boiled eggs, cut into fine shreds or small dice, with Mayonnaise sauce and finely cut anchovy fillets. Range neatly in the centre of a salad bowl, and besprinkle with chopped tarragon and chervil leaves. Arrange groups of cooked green asparagus-points, chopped or shredded beetroot, thinly cut rounds of radishes, truffle, and tomatoes round the base of the dish, and serve. Tomato and Cucumber Salad Small even-sized tomatoes are the best for this salad. Scald them in boiling water, then peel and place them on the ice. Scoop out a sufficient depth to hold about a teaspoonful, and put half a sweet green pepper and one small cucumber chopped fine; place each tomato upon a lettuce leaf, and pour a teaspoonful of Mayonnaise over the top. A sauce-boat of Mayonnaise should be served separately with the dish. Vaudeville Salad Dip eight to ten small firm tomatoes into boiling water for a second or two and peel them quickly. Cut each in half crossways and remove the seeds, then cut each into quarters. Season carefully with salt, pepper, and sufficient piquante Mayonnaise dressing to bind the tomatoes. Keep on the ice for half an hour or longer. Just before serving, peel and slice thinly three unripe bananas, and mixSIDE-DISHES 359 with the above, then dish up neatly piled up high, and garnish with two to three lettuce hearts cut into quarters. Range these in the form of a border round the base of the salad bowl, and sprinkle over a little finely chopped parsley, tarragon, and chives. Dandelion Salad Take the required quantity of young yellow leaves of dandelion, rinse them in cold water and drain carefully in a cloth, then season with salt, oil, and vinegar. Pile up high in a salad bowl, and garnish with a border composed of seasoned water-cress and small cress. Banana and Walnut Salad Peel and cut into slices four to six ripe but firm bananas, place them in a basin, and mix carefully with half a pint of peeled walnut kernels divided into small pieces. Season with salt and pepper to taste, and besprinkle with the juice of half a lemon. Range this neatly in a salad bowl, surmounted with a neat border of water-cress, previously washed, picked, and drained ; in the centre of the salad pile one to two large tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise dressing, and send to table. SIDE-DISHES HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SAVOURIES Caviare as Hors-d’oeuvre This is, next to the oyster, the most favourite hors-d’oeuvre. There are various kinds, the genuine Russian, unsalted, being the best. Astrachan, Elbe, and hygienic caviare are also excellent, though less expensive than the former. It is usual to serve caviare in the original pot, placed on a folded napkin on a dish surrounded with shaved ice. In any case caviare must be kept on the ice till required. Quarters or slices of lemon or cayenne pepper must be handed round when serving. Duchesses with Caviare Prepare an unsweetened choux-paste, put it in a forcing-bag with a plain pipe, and force out little heaps of paste on to a greased baking-sheet. Bake in a quick oven to a light-brown colour. Make an incision from the bottom of each little “ choux,” and scoop out some of the soft part. When quite cold, fill the little choux with Astrachan or hygienic caviare previously “ iced.” Brush over with aspic mixed with meat glaze; besprinkle with chopped pistachios and dish up. Mayonnaise of Caviare Put into a clean mortar about half a pound of fresh Astrachan caviare, and pound, adding at the same time four ounces of fresh bread-crumbs previously soaked in a little milk or cream. When quite fine, put it in a basin, place on ice and work the mixture with a3<5° THE MODERN COOK wooden spoon, just like a Mayonnaise, adding sufficient best salad oil (about a quarter of a gill) and the juice of a lemon. Season with a pinch of paprika or cayenne. Dress in dome shape on a cold dish, surrounded with crushed ice, garnish with quarters of lemon and serve with fingers of freshly toasted bread. Canapes of Caviare Prepare some slices of toasted bread, butter them, and stamp out into rounds about one and a half inches in diameter. Spread these on one side thickly with Russian caviare, place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, put a sprig of parsley or water-cress on top of the olives, dish up and serve cold. If required to be served hot as a savoury, put the rounds of toast with caviare in a hot oven for five minutes, then dish up and put the olives on them just before sending to table. In either case the dish should be garnished with fanciful cut slices of lemon and hard-boiled whites of eggs. Caviare Rosettes Mix the contents of a small jar of Russian caviare with a tea- spoonful of lemon juice and one of finely chopped shalots. (Stir with a wooden fork or wooden skewer.) Cut thin slices of toasted brown bread into heart shapes of even size: spread one side of each with caviare. Cream some fresh butter and mix with a little lobster coral. Put in a forcing-bag or paper cornet and decorate the border of each with it. Dish up with the pointed ends of the crofites inwards, so as to form a rosette shape. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley and quartered lemon, and serve. Olives as Hors-d’oeuvre Both Spanish and French olives are suitable as hors-d’oeuvres, the Spanish being the most esteemed; they should remain on the table until the dessert is served. It is claimed that olives destroy the taste of what has been previously eaten; hence they are so popular a relish. Choose them firm, and of a nice green colour. Steep them in cold water before serving; dish up on small dishes or boats with a little cold water. Never use a metal fork or spoon to dress them. Those left over from a meal should be rebottled at once with salted water, else they will turn black. Olives a la Madras Nine Spanish olives, 9 anchovy fillets, 2 hard-boiled eggs, i tea- spoonful of chutney, 1 dessertspoonful of Anchovy sauce or paste, 1 oz. of butter, cayenne and salt, 9 fried bread croutes, or rounds of triscuit fried in butter. Stone the olives, pound in a mortar the butter, anchovy paste, yolks of eggs, chutney, and seasoning, and rub them through a sieve. Spread a little of the puree on each crofite, put a stoned olive filled with the same pur£e on each. Decorate with lobster coral and chopped white of egg. Curl an anchovy fillet round the base of each olive, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve.SIDE-DISHES 361 Stuffed Olives with Anchovies Stone a bottle of large olives (Spanish or Lucca olives), curl up some anchovy fillets, and insert one in each olive; or, if preferred, mince the anchovy fillets and then fill the olives. Dish them up on a glass dish, insert a sprig of curly parsley in each. Sprinkle over a few drops of salad oil, and serve. Olives a la Reine Take 12 large Spanish (Queen’s) olives, 4 sardines (boneless), 3 oz. fresh butter, a teaspoonful anchovy paste, i lemon, a few French gherkins (pickled), 1 hard-boiled egg, and small fried bread croutes. Carefully remove the stones from the olives, pound the sardines in a mortar, add the butter, anchovy paste, the yolk of the egg, and a few drops of lemon juice; season with a good pinch of paprika pepper. Mix thoroughly and rub through a fine wire sieve. Put this mixture into a forcing-bag with a plain tube or pipe and fill the olives. Have ready the fried bread crofltes, force out a little of the mixture on each of the crofltes and place on it the olives; decorate the base of the crofltes with the above mixture. Dish up on little glass dishes, garnish with white of egg (hard-boiled) and gherkins all shredded as finely as possible, and serve. Stuffed Olives with Foie=Gras Take ten to twelve large Spanish olives (Queen’s), cut out the stones by means of a column cutter. Toast two slices of bread, and stamp out some rounds about an inch in diameter. Pound till smooth four ounces of foie-gras pat£, two yolks of hard-boiled eggs, one ounce of butter; season with pepper and salt, and rub through a sieve ; spread thinly the rounds of toast with this, put the remainder of the purde into a forcing-bag, and fill the olives. Place each in the centre of each croflte, decorate tastefully with creamed butter and sprigs of parsley, dish up neatly, and serve. Plovers’ Eggs Boil the eggs for about eight minutes, plunge them into cold water and remove the shells; or, if preferred, shell only the pointed end of each egg, Range them on a dish on a bed of water-cress or parsley, and serve. Soused Cepes If fresh cbpes are obtainable, parboil them after being cleaned in salted water, drain and cool them, then put them in a basin and pour over a hot marinade, composed of one and a half gills of vinegar, half a gill of salad oil, half a clove of garlic crushed, a few pepper- corns also crushed, and a few sprigs of savoury herbs. Boil up and pour over the chpes. Allow them to soak for four hours or longer, then take up, cut them into thin slices and range on a dish, pour over some of the strained marinade and serve. Chpes are obtainable already cooked, in glass or tins, from first-class grocers.THE MODERN COOK 362 Tunny Fish The tunny is a kind of fish which resembles the cod ; it is usually obtained preserved or marinaded in oil. The flesh is very firm, has a delicate flavour, and looks very much like cooked veal; it makes a highly esteemed hors-d’oeuvre, but is hardly ever served otherwise. To serve it, cut it into slices, arrange them on oblong or round glass dishes in rows overlapping one another. Ornament the sides alter- nately with little heaps of chopped capers and chopped parsley. Pour a little sweet oil over the fish just before sending to table. Prawns in Savoury Jelly Line some small dariole moulds with a thin layer of aspic jelly; when nearly set, sprinkle over some chopped lobster coral and chopped gherkins or olives. Place two or three picked prawns in each mould and fill up with aspic jelly. Put the moulds on the ice to get firm. Prepare as many fried bread croutons (round) as there are moulds, mask one side of each with green herb butter (beurre Montpellier). Turn out the moulds and place one in the centre of each croute. Dish up, and serve as hors-d’oeuvre or cold savoury. Anchovies The best and most suitable anchovies for hors-d’oeuvre are the Gorgonas. A very good quality also comes from Nice. Soak the anchovies in cold water for an hour or more, then drain them on a cloth, open them and take out the bones, and trim neatly. Dry on a cloth, dish up, pour a little sweet oil over them, garnish with parsley, and serve. Smoked Sardines Smoked sardines, also Royans and Kieller Sprotten, are of excellent flavour, which is caused by the process of smoking prior to being put in olive oil, which gives the fish a distinctive flavour. They may be served plain or treated similarly to ordinary sardines, for which a number of recipes are given. Herring Rolls Take 4 salt herrings (Dutch herrings), 3 filleted anchovies, a pinch of cayenne, 2 hard-boiled eggs, 1 lemon, 1 £ oz. butter; parsley, beetroot, and gherkins for garnish. Steep the herrings in cold water for a few hours; fillet them, removing the white skin and all bones; cut each lengthways in two and pare neatly. Put the trimmings of the fillet into a mortar, together with the anchovies, and pound till smooth; add the yolks of the hard-boiled eggs and the butter, season to taste (no salt) and mix thoroughly. Rub this through a fine sieve with a layer of this puree; roll up neatly. Dip the ends into finely-chopped hard-boiled white of eggs. Dish up, sprinkle over some lemon juice, garnish with thinly cut slices of lemon, gherkin, beetroot, and parsley. Serve cold.363 SIDE-DISHES Oysters au Naturel After being opened, place each oyster on the upper shell with a little of the liquor ; they are then arranged on a dish, garnished with sprigs of fresh parsley, and, if possible, surrounded with shaved ice. Some thinly cut slices of buttered brown bread and quarters of lemon are handed round at the same time ; also Nepaul or cayenne pepper. Oyster Chaud = froid Blanch in their own liquor twelve large natives, drain them, and remove the beards. Have ready some Aspic Mayonnaise, coat each oyster well with this, and let them be set on the ice on a wire tray. Stamp out some dot shapes of red pimiento, place these in rings of olives, and set one in the centre of each oyster. Mask with a little dissolved aspic, and place them on little round crohtes of fried or toasted bread. Dish up and garnish with parsley. Oyster Cocktail Allow five to six small oysters for each person; open and drop them with the liquor into a wine-glass ; add a little lemon juice, three drops of Tabasco sauce or Chili vinegar, a teaspoonful of Worcester- shire sauce, and one dessertspoonful of Tomato catsup; stir up and serve. Scraped horse-radish may, if liked, be served separately. Oysters (Richelieu Style) Twelve large sauce oysters, J small lobster, i gill cream, J pint aspic jelly, 2 tablespoonfuls Mayonnaise sauce, ^ ounce French gelatine, ^ gill tomato puree, tarragon and chervil leaves for garnish, \ small head celery, a gill picked shrimps. Beard the oysters, and poach them in their own liquor. Reduce the oyster liquor, and strain into the aspic jelly (great care must be taken to preserve the latter perfectly clear). Chop the meat of the lobster rather finely, melt the gelatine in the tomato puree, strain, and mix with half the jelly. Whisk the cream, and stir it together with a tablespoonful of Mayonnaise into the above. Whisk for some minutes, then add the minced lobster. Mask some deep oyster moulds with aspic jelly, decorate tastefully with sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves. Mix the remainder of aspic with the remaining Mayonnaise sauce, and pour a thin layer of it over the decorated moulds; when set, fill each with the prepared puree, and place on the ice until set. Meanwhile prepare a salad with the celery (finely shredded) and the shrimps, and season to taste. Turn out the moulds, arrange the oysters on a dish in the form of a border, fill the centre with the prepared salad, garnish the dish to taste, and serve. Oysters with Caviare Open the required number of oysters, remove the beards, and put a teaspoonful of seasoned Russian or hygienic caviare on the.lower (deep) shell of each ; place the oysters upon these, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and dish up. Garnish the dish with slices of lemon and parsley. Keep it on the ice till required for table.THE MODERN COOK 364 Foie=Gras as Hors-d’oeuvre Foie-gras or goose-liver, either in the form of pate or sausage, is frequently served as hors-d’oeuvre. A patd or terrine may be served plain after removing the fat on its surface, or scooped out by means of a dessertspoon previously dipped in hot water, and then dressed neatly on a dish and garnished with parsley. Foie-gras sausage must be cut into thin slices, dished up, and similarly garnished. In all cases foie-gras must be served very cold, and should be kept on the ice until required for table. Tartines a la Lucullus Take half a pound of puff paste, give it three consecutive turns, besprinkle the paste each turn with finely grated Parmesan cheese. Roll out in two long strips about three inches wide and a quarter of an inch thick, and cut in two crossways. Mix a tablespoonful of anchovy paste with sufficient Anchovy sauce to form a smooth paste. Spread this evenly over one side of the paste, and cover with the other strip. Cut it into small squares or oblong strips, place on a baking-sheet, prick the surface of them with a fork, and bake in a moderately-heated oven to a nice light brown. When baked, put aside to cool. In the meantime pound the following in a mortar: Two hard-boiled yolks of eggs, one ounce of fresh butter, one ounce of bloater paste, a tablespoonful of Veloute or Bechamel sauce, and three stoned Spanish olives. Put all through a fine sieve. Put into a small basin and season with a little cayenne. Put this puree in a paper cornet, cut the point, and form an ornamental border on the top of each tartine. Place half a stoned Spanish olive in the centre of each, curl a strip of anchovy fillet or Lax round each olive, strew a few shreds of cornichons (pickled French gherkins) round the olives, dish up, and serve. Cornets de Ham a la Gelee Cut as thinly as possible the required number of slices of ham (cooked), then stamp out with a sharp paste-cutter in even-sized rounds; twist each on a cornet tin, or on a wooden pastry roll. Fasten the end by means of a little liquefied meat glaze, stiffened with a small quantity of gelatine. When sufficiently set or fixed gently remove the cornets, or rolled shapes of ham, from the tin or wood. Fill with finely chopped aspic mixed with chopped lean ham and pistachio kernels, glaze over with a little semi-liquid aspic, and dish up on a flat dish round a suitably shaped vegetable macedoine timbale. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve as hors- d’oeuvres. Melon & ITmperiale Procure a fine rock melon (not overripe), cut off the top portion, and scoop out the interior seedy part. Place the melon in a pan surrounded with ice, and put in two or three glasses tawny port wine. Keep the melon thus for about three hours. Just before serving,SIDE-DISHES 365 pour out the liquid, and fill the melon with stiffly whipped cream seasoned with a little salt and a liberal dose of paprika. Dish up, replace the top portion of the melon, and keep on the ice till required to be served. Diables k Cheval (Devils on Horseback) Flatten out nine or ten thinly cut rashers of bacon and trim each neatly. Stone the same number of best French plums, insert in the place a peeled Jordan almond, previously tossed in oil or butter, and highly seasoned with paprika, salt, and cayenne. Next roll each plum in a slice of bacon, skewer them, and grill over a bright fire for about six minutes, turning them frequently. Serve the rolls on silver skewers, on neatly cut slices of toasted bread or fried crofitons,. arranged on a round or oval flat dish. Anchovy Crofites Cut out six to eight oblong slices of bread and fry to a golden colour in hot butter, drain and let cool, then spread one side of each with anchovy butter; put half a stoned olive in the centre of each and coil round it a fillet of anchovy. Cream a little butter, put it in a cornet, and ornament the edges of the crofites. Garnish further with chopped hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, and chopped gherkins. Dish up and serve. Anchovy Pasties Scrape, wipe, and bone ten Gorgona anchovies ; roll out some short paste or remnants of puff paste, enclose each fish neatly in the paste, and trim. Place them on a baking-sheet, brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese and a pinch of cayenne pepper over each; bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes, and serve. Anchovy Biscuits Pound the fillets of six anchovies in a mortar with an ounce of butter, add a pinch of cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of essence of anchovies ; rub through a sieve, spread some round or oblong water biscuits with the paste, place them in the oven to get quite hot; garnish the tops with strips of filleted anchovies and capers; dish up on a folded napkin, and serve. Sardine Canapes Cut some slices of bread into finger shapes, and fry them in butter to a nice golden colour. Bone twenty-four sardines, pound half the quantity in a mortar with an ounce of butter and two yolks of eggs ; season with pepper, mustard, chopped chives, parsley, and tarragon; spread the mixture over the fried bread. Lay one of the remaining sardines on each finger, place in the oven for a few minutes, dish up, garnish with crayfish tails, slices of gherkins and pickled beetroot, and serve.366 THE MODERN COOK Savoury Haddock on Toast Remove the skin and bones from a parboiled, smoked haddock ; pound the flesh in a mortar, and mix with it two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt, and three yolks of eggs. Shape the mixture into small balls, and fry them in hot fat, drain, and place on small squares of toasted or fried bread previously spread with anchovy butter. Dish up and garnish with fried parsley. Cold Haddock Creams Take half a haddock, i gill of aspic jelly, \ pint of cream, i table- spoonful Mayonnaise, i gill tomato pulp, ^ oz. gelatine, tarragon, and chervil, and | oz. butter. Decorate a number of small dariole moulds (previously masked with a thin layer of aspic) with tarragon and chervil leaves. Put the haddock in the oven with a little butter on top, and cook for ten minutes ; remove skin and bones and pound the fish in a mortar, rub through a sieve, and let co'ol. Melt the gelatine in the tomato pulp. Whip the cream till stiff, add the Mayonnaise sauce and the remainder of the aspic jelly; strain the Tomato sauce, etc., into this, and stir gradually into the puree of haddock. Fill the moulds with this. Put them on the ice to set. Turn out on a cold dish; decorate with chopped aspic and small salad, and serve. Devilled Smoked Salmon Put some wholemeal or water biscuits into salad oil to soak for a few minutes; take up, dust with salt, cayenne, and black pepper. Toast the biscuits on both sides, and place upon them some thinly cut slices of smoked salmon; cover these with a thin layer of devilled paste or butter; place them in a hot oven for a few minutes. Dish up, and serve as hot as possible. Lobster a la Newburg Remove the meat from a medium-sized lobster and chop it finely. Beat the yolks of two eggs and mix with half a gill of double cream, a few drops of onion juice, half a teaspoonful of salt, a saltspoonful of Krona pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew-pan; when hot, put in the minced lobster, cook whilst stirring for a few minutes, then add the cream, etc. Stir continuously till it thickens, and serve out on small rounds of toasted and buttered or fried bread. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of crisp parsley, and serve. Scalloped Lobster Chop up the meat of a large lobster, put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce, a small piece of butter, and one ounce of anchovy paste; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg, cayenne, and lemon juice; stir over the fire for a few minutes, mix with two yolks of eggs, fill some small scallop-shells with this, sprinkle with fried bread- crumbs and oiled butter, brown with a salamander or in the oven, dish up on a folded napkin, garnish with crisp parsley, and serve.SIDE-DISHES 367 Canapes of Curried Crab Remove the white meat and bed from the shell of a crab, pound it in a mortar with a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. Season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, nutmeg, mustard, and cayenne; moisten with a little tarragon vinegar. Add a small handful of fried bread-crumbs. Have ready some small rounds of fried bread, scooped out in the centre to take the stuffing; put a tablespoonful of it in the centre of each. Mask the top with a thick Curry sauce, sprinkle over with bread-crumbs, bake for a few minutes, dish up, and serve. Savoury Crab with Tomato Sauce Break up a boiled crab, separate all the meat from the shell and claws. Put the meat into a stew-pan with a handful of soft bread- crumbs, four tablespoonfuls of Tomato sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little finely chopped lemon rind; season with salt and pepper, add a wine-glassful of Chablis or sherry. Let all simmer over the fire, whilst stirring, for ten minutes; add a small piece of fresh butter, bring once more to the boil, then turn out on a deep dish; garnish the dish with fried bread croutons and rings of lemon, and serve. Bloater Cream Toast Toast in front or over a light fire three or four slices of stale bread cut from a sandwich loaf, trim off the crust and spread over one side with bloater paste, previously mixed with a little creamed butter, then cut the toast into even-sized finger shapes about an inch wide. Have ready some whipped cream seasoned with a good pinch of Krona or paprika pepper, spread this over the pieces of toast; arrange some thin strips of bloater fillets across the cream in lattice-work pattern, and place a tiny caper in each of the shapes. Decorate the edge with cream forced through a forcing-bag or paper cornet. Dish up on lace paper, and serve. Fillets of Bloaters with Cheese Skin two large-sized bloaters, split them down the back, remove the bones, place the fillets on a greased gridiron over or before the fire, and broil until nearly tender; then dip them in oiled butter, and cover with grated Parmesan cheese. Have ready some hot buttered pieces of toasted bread, cut these in convenient shape, put a fillet on each, put them on a dish, sprinkle with a few fried bread- crumbs, place in a hot oven for a few minutes, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. Cod’s Roe on Toast Cut two ounces of raw cod’s roe into small pieces and put them in a sauce-pan with one ounce of butter, a beaten egg, two table- spoonfuls of milk, and season with salt and pepper. Stir this over a moderate fire until it commences to thicken, and then stir in a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce. Spread the mixture over slices of buttered toast. Dish up and serve.THE MODERN COOK 368 Alexandra Crofites Pound in a mortar three yolks of hard-boiled eggs, two ounces of tunny fish, and mix with two tablespoonfuls of cream; season with lemon juice, salt and pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. With this paste spread eight oval-shaped croutes of triscuits, previously fried in clarified butter and well drained on paper. Garnish each croute or canape with thinly cut fillets of Lax arranged lattice-work fashion. Stamp out some little spots of Spanish pimiento, dip them in liquid aspic, and put them in the cavities of the croCites. Dish up on lace paper. Garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. Cornwall Toast Mince finely three or four cup mushrooms, previously peeled, washed, and drained. Heat up half an ounce of butter and fry the mushrooms in this; season with salt and pepper. Broil six to eight very thinly cut rashers of streaky bacon, have ready three slices of toasted bread, spread these with the minced mushrooms, and cut them into six to eight oblongs the same size as the bacon. Place the bacon on top of each, and put a tablespoonful of scrambled eggs upon the bacon. Dish up, and send to table very hot. Devilled Chicken Croutes Cut out twelve small rounds of bread about half an inch deep, stamp out the centre with a small plain cutter, and scoop out as much of the crumby part as possible. Fry these in clarified butter, and drain on a cloth. Cut into shreds six ounces of cold chicken meat and two ounces of ham or tongue; put it into a stew-pan with half an ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a pinch of curry powder, and a dust of cayenne pepper. Heat the mixture over the fire, fill the croutes, glaze the tops with dissolved meat glaze, put them in a hot oven for a few seconds, dish up, and serve. Tongue Toast Chop finely the remains of a tongue (four to six ounces), mix it with the yolk of an egg, a little cream, season with a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and grated nutmeg; heat up in a stew-pan. Spread this over some slices of hot buttered toast, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, cut the slices into fingers of equal sizes, let them brown before the fire or in a hot oven. Dish up on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve. Curried Toast Toast four slices of bread cut from a sandwich loaf, trim off the crusts and butter each slice; then spread with a mixture composed of equal proportions of curry or mulligatawny paste, and anchovy or bloater paste. Cut the prepared toast into fingers, range them on a dish, and bake in a hot oven for a few minutes, long enough to heat them; then serve.369 SIDE-DISHES Artichokes with Foie-Gras Drain some artichoke-bottoms (cooked), and fill them with a puree of foie-gras and truffles; coat well with a rich, well-reduced White sauce, sprinkle with bread-crumbs, and brown in the oven. Artichoke Fritters Cut some cooked artichoke-bottoms into slices, and season with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, and chopped parsley. Dip the pieces (drained) in frying batter. Fry in hot fat. Drain well, then dish up and serve hot. Devilled Mushrooms in Cases Wipe and peel six cup mushrooms, cut them into small dice and toss in butter. Butter some souffle paper cases, lay a thin slice of lemon in each, three-parts fill with mushrooms, and season to taste. Spread a layer of potted devilled meat, mixed with a yolk of egg, over the mushrooms; brush over with oiled butter, and bake for fifteen minutes. Just before dishing up put a tablespoonful of stiff Mayonnaise sauce on top of each case, sprinkle with cayenne, and serve quickly. Mushroom Crofites Cut some slices of white bread, stamp out rounds or oblongs with a fancy or plain cutter, fry them in butter to a golden colour, and drain. Have ready a pint of button mushrooms, peeled and fried in butter; also a mixture of finely chopped beef and ham, moistened with a rich brown sauce. When quite hot, spread the mixture over the crofites, place a mushroom on each; season with pepper, salt, cayenne, and a little lemon juice. Place them in a hot oven for a few minutes, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Devilled Olives Stone some large Spanish olives, stuff them with anchovy paste. Spread some small wholemeal or charcoal biscuits with anchovy paste, brush over with oiled butter; place the olives in circular rows on the biscuits (three or four on each), season with pepper and plenty of cayenne. Place them on a buttered saut^-pan in the oven for ten minutes, and dish up on a folded napkin. Garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. Tomato and Anchovy Savoury Take three or four ripe tomatoes, three hard-boiled eggs, twenty- four fillets of anchovy, twelve rounds of brown bread, two ounces butter, and chopped parsley. Scald the tomatoes and remove the skin. Cut them into round slices. Place each slice on to neatly cut slices of brown bread, cut out with a round pastry cutter, and spread with butter. Put a slice of hard-boiled egg on to the tomato, and cross two fillets of anchovy over each one. Sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the top, and serve as a cold savoury.THE MODERN COOK 37° Egg and Ham Savoury Line ten or twelve small tartlet moulds with puff-paste trimmings or plain paste crust; fill these with the following preparation:— Mince four ounces of cooked ham and three hard-boiled eggs finely. Mix with three yolks of raw eggs a little cream, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Fill up the moulds, and bake the patties in a moderately hot oven; dish up, and serve with some Piquante or Tomato sauce. Egg Coquilles Butter the inside of eight china souffle cases, put a tablespoonful of prepared and seasoned spinach in each; upon this put about a dessertspoonful of cream. Break a fresh egg in each, season with pepper and salt, place the cases on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderately heated oven for about eight minutes. Dish up and serve quickly. Cheese Souffles Melt one ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, and mix smoothly ; then add half a gill of milk ; stir until boiling, then add two ounces grated Gruyere cheese, the yolks of two eggs, and season to taste. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth and stir in lightly. Pour into small china or paper souffle cases (previously buttered), and bake at once in a hot oven for about twenty minutes. Cheese Fondu Ingredients : 2 oz. fresh Parmesan cheese grated, 1 oz. flour, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 oz. butter, 1 gill milk, a pinch mignonette pepper, and a very little salt. Mix the flour, butter, pepper, and salt well together with the milk, and then stir this over the fire until it boils; work the batter quickly with the spoon until perfectly smooth, then add the grated Cheese and yolks of eggs; whip the whites quite firmly, and fold them in very lightly. Fill the souffle case with the Fondu, bake for about thirty minutes, and send to table as soon as it is ready. Note.—Half the quantity of Gruyhre with the other half of Parme- san cheese is sometimes used. It is also customary to season fondus with mustard, lemon juice, cayenne pepper, and essence of anchovies for those who prefer high seasoning to the more delicate flavour of the Parmesan cheese. Cheese Aigrettes Melt an ounce of butter in a sauce-pan, add one and a half ounces of flour, stir over the fire, and add one gill of milk, two table- spoonfuls of water. Stir till it boils, and work to a smooth paste, adding three yolks of eggs. Fold in when cooled the whisked white of one egg, season to taste, and add two ounces of grated Gruykre cheese. Drop the mixture from a dessertspoon into hot fat or clarified butter, and fry to a light-brown colour. Drain, dish up, and serve at once.37i SIDE-DISHES Cheese Darioles Whip up half a pint of cream and mix it with a quarter of a pint of semi-liquid aspic, and four ounces of grated Gruyere cheese. Season with cayenne or paprika pepper and a little made mustard. When well mixed, fill the required number of small paper or china dariole or souffle cases; place these on the ice to set. Before serving, sprinkle over each a little grated cheese. Baked Cheese Ramequin Stir two yolks of eggs into one gill of cream, and mix with four ounces of grated Gruyere cheese, and season with salt and pepper. Whisk the whites of two eggs, and mix with the above. Fry about six slices of bread in hot butter, and put them into several buttered fireproof china pans or dishes. Pour over the prepared mixture, and bake in a hot oven to a golden brown. Golden Buck Grate or chop half a pound of Cheddar cheese. Put in a sauce- pan half a gill of water or ale, or—if you prefer it—cider; add the cheese, half a teaspoonful of salt, a dash of cayenne, a teaspoonful of onion juice, and stir with a wooden spoon over the fire until it becomes smooth and creamy; then stir in one yolk of egg. Pour hot on pieces of buttered toast placed on a hot dish, and serve. Woodcock Toast Take \ lb. of chicken or duck livers, 2 small Gorgona anchovies, \ teaspoonful castor sugar, 1 oz. butter, J teaspoonful spiced pepper (paprika or Krona pepper), a pinch of salt, 3 yolks of eggs, and about \ gill of cream. Wash and clean the livers, removing carefully any gall that may be left on, drain them on a cloth, and pound till quite fine in a mortar. Bone and skin the anchovies, and pound them to a paste. Mix all thoroughly, and add the butter, sugar, and seasoning, rub through a fine sieve, and incorporate the egg yolks and half the above-mentioned quantity of cream. Stir this in a chafing-dish until it is sufficiently cooked, have ready a plate or small dish with a piece of buttered toast. Just before serving add a little more cream, and seasoning if needed, pour the mixture over the toast, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. Savoury Marrow on Toast Break up two good beef bones, extract the marrow, cut it into square dice, and put to soak in water for two hours. Bring the pieces to a boil over a quick fire, take them out to drain; dress them on small pieces of buttered toast; break them up with a fork, so as to spread the marrow over the surface of each piece of bread ; season with salt, pepper, cayenne, and lemon juice, and besprinkle with finely chopped parsley. Dish up neatly, brown a little with a hot salamander, garnish with fried parsley, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 372 Devilled Meat Cut some thin slices of cold meat (the remains of beef, mutton, or pork), put these in a deep dish and saturate with the following marinade : A wine-glassful of claret, the juice of half a lemon, a tea- spoonful of oil, one of Chili vinegar, one of Worcestershire sauce, one of mushroom ketchup; add also a pinch of mustard, some peppercorns, salt, cayenne to taste. When well seasoned, arrange the slices of meat on a buttered fireproof dish. Put a few small pieces of butter here and there on the top. Place the dish in a hot oven for about twenty minutes, and serve. Croutes a la Darvelle Six oz. tunny fish, 2 oz. potato puree, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 2 egg yolks, | gill cream, white pepper and cayenne to taste, 10 neatly cut anchovy fillets, 10 oval-shaped fried bread croutes. Drain the tunny fish from its oil, cut it up small and pound in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the potato puree and the grated cheese. Incorporate the egg yolks and the cream, and season to taste with pepper. Spread this mixture thickly over the previously prepared bread crofttes, and shape each neatly; place an anchovy fillet on top of each crofite; bake in a moderate oven for about eight minutes. Dish up and serve quickly. Spinach Friandises Pick, wash, drain, and cook in very little water one and a half pounds of spinach with about one ounce of butter and sufficient salt to taste. When cooked, drain the spinach and rub it through a fine sieve, reheat with a little Veloute sauce and cream. Take six or more small flat flan tins (two and a half inches in diameter) and line them with thinly rolled out short crust, fill them with uncooked rice, and bake them (blind) to a golden colour. Remove the rice carefully and unmould the paste crusts. Place them on a baking-sheet, and three parts fill each with the prepared spinach. Pour over each about two tablespoonfuls of egg beaten up with an equal quantity of milk, season with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and bake for about five minutes, just long enough to set the egg. Dish up, put a thin round slice of cooked and glazed beef marrow on top of each, and serve hot. Russian Kniokis Four oz. semolina or Florador, £ pint milk, J pint rich white stock, bay leaf, 2 eggs, £ pint Bechamel sauce, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, 1 oz. butter, bread-crumbs. Put the milk and stock into a stew-pan and boil up with the bay leaf; stir in the semolina or Florador, and stir continually over the fire till boiling, then add the butter and two yolks of eggs, and continue to stir for a few minutes longer. Spread this on a buttered dish or baking-sheet and let cool. Cut the mixture into rounds or ovals, and range them on a buttered fire-proof dish ; spread a layer of Bdchamel sauce and grated cheese between each, and coat theEGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 373 dish completely with sauce when finished dressing. Besprinkle with grated cheese and bread-crumbs, also a little oiled butter, and brown in the oven. Herring1 Roes a la Lucullus Eight soft roes of herring, J melon, 1 oz. butter, J oz. flour, 1 gill milk, 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful Lucullus puree, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, seasoning. Butter eight china souffle cases. Poach the soft roes in seasoned milk. Mix the Lucullus puree with the cream, and season with paprika or Krona pepper. Put about a teaspoonful of this in each souffle case; next put a herring roe in each case. Melt the butter, add the flour, and stir a little over the fire, then moisten with the milk, and work over the fire till it boils; stir in two egg yolks, season with salt and pepper, and lastly add the stiffly whisked white of one egg. Spread this mixture over the herring roes contained in the souffld cases, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Mushrooms on Toast Choose twelve mushrooms, cut off the root ends, peel them, dip in butter and grill them. Season with pepper and salt. Have ready twelve rounds of toasted bread a trifle larger than the mushrooms ; butter these well, place a thin slice of lemon on each, dress the mushrooms on them. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley or water-cress, and serve. EGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES Eggs a la Tripe Boil four eggs hard, leave them in cold water for three minutes, take off the shells, then cut them in rather thick slices, and put into a stew-pan. Next cut two small onions in slices, separating the folds in rings; these must be first parboiled in water, and then after being boiled in white stock should be drained and placed with the eggs; add half a pint of good Bechamel sauce, a pinch of mignonette pepper, a little nutmeg, and a few drops of lemon juice. Toss the whole together over the fire, and when the eggs are quite hot, dish them up in a conical form; garnish with croutons or fleurons, and serve. Eggs au Gratin Boil three or four eggs hard, and when done, take off the shells, cut them in slices, and set them aside on a plate. Next put half a pint of white sauce into a stew-pan to boil over the fire, and when it is sufficiently reduced, add one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, a small pat of butter, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, the yolk of an egg, and a few drops of lemon juice; stir this quickly over the fire until it begins to thicken, and then withdraw from the fire.THE MODERN COOK 374 Place the eggs in rows in the dish, spread some of the preparation in between each layer, and dish up in the form of a dome ; smooth the surface over with the remainder of the sauce, sprinkle some browned bread-crumbs mixed with grated Parmesan cheese over the top, put some fried croutons of bread or fleurons round the base, gratinate in the oven for about ten minutes, then send to table. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles Break six new-laid eggs into a stew-pan ; to these add two ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of truffles (cut up in very small dice, and simmered in a little butter), a tablespoonful of cream, a small piece of glaze, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt; stir this quickly over the fire until the eggs, etc., begin to thicken, when the stew-pan must be withdrawn ; continue to mix the eggs with the spoon until they become set without curdling; dish up the eggs in the centre of some croutons or fleurons, and serve. Leek Omelet Six eggs, i^- oz. butter, i tablespoonful grated cheese, salt and cayenne, i tablespoonful milk or cream, 2 leeks well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream; beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stew-pan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan; when thoroughly warm (not too hot) pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a warm dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly. Omelet a la Marechale Eight eggs, 8 slices cooked smoked ox-tongue, a dessertspoonful chopped parsley, ^ gill cream, oz. butter, salt, pepper, Colbert sauce (see p. 5). Break the eggs into a basin, add parsley, pepper, salt, and beat up well, add the cream and mix thoroughly. Divide into eight equal portions; melt a little of the butter, and prepare a very small omelet with each portion of the mixture; place it on the slice of tongue, trimmed to required size, and proceed thus until the eight omelets are made. Dish up on a hot dish in the shape of a border (en couronne), pour Colbert sauce round the dish, and serve. Parmesan Omelet Six eggs, 1 large tablespoonful cream, 2 tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan, 1 j oz. butter, white pepper, a few brown crumbs, Tomato sauce (see p. 7). Break the eggs into a basin, add rather more than half of theEGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 375 grated cheese and a pinch of pepper (no salt), mix well with a whisk, add the cream, and beat well. Melt half the butter in an omelet- pan, pour in half the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire until the eggs begin to set (it requires generally three minutes to stir), then fold into a cushion shape, let it rest for one minute to take colour, turn on to a hot dish. With the other half of the mixture and butter prepare a second omelet, and put it along with the first. Trim the omelets neatly, sprinkle over with a few bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan, also a few drops of oiled butter, put the dish in a sharp oven or under a hot salamander for a few minutes, and serve with nicely seasoned hot Tomato sauce poured round the omelets. Savoury Herb Omelet Break six eggs in a basin ; to these add a tablespoonful of cream, a small piece of butter, two dessertspoonfuls of chopped parsley and herbs, and some pepper and salt. Then put one ounce of fresh butter in an omelet-pan on the fire; while the butter is melting, whip the eggs, etc., well together until they become frothy; as soon as the butter begins to get hot, pour the eggs into the pan, and stir the omelet as the eggs appear to set and become firm. When the whole has become partially set; roll the omelet into the form of an oval cushion, let it turn a golden brown on one side over the fire, and then turn out on a dish; pour a little thin Espagnole sauce, or half-glaze, under, and serve. Omelet with Shalots Prepare and finish this omelet as above, except that some chopped shalots must be added to the parsley. Cheese Omelet Break six eggs into a basin, then add a tablespoonful of cream, two ounces of grated-Parmesan cheese, some mignonette pepper, and a little salt; beat the whole well together, and finish the omelet as before. Kidney Omelet First prepare and slice two small sheep’s kidneys, toss them in butter and add a dessertspoonful of flour, and moisten with a little well-seasoned brown sauce. Next make an omelet as directed for “Savoury Herb Omelet,” and when fried, and before folding up, place the prepared kidneys in it; roll up into shape, dish up, and pour a little Demi-glace sauce round the base of the dish, and serve. Savoury Banana Omelet Peel four not overripe bananas, cut them into round slices (not too thin). Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan, when hot put in the bananas and toss them over the fire for a few minutes, then season with salt and pepper. Break four eggs into a basin, add a tablespoonful of milk, salt and pepper to taste, and beat up well. Melt one ounce of butter in an3 76 THE MODERN COOK omelet pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick fire until the eggs begin to set, then shape into an omelet. Put the prepared bananas in the centre, fold in the sides of the omelet, and let it take colour. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve. Oyster Omelet This is made in the same manner as above, merely substituting eight to ten chopped oysters for the kidneys. Poached Egg's with Anchovy Toast Break four to six new-laid eggs into separate small cups, or dariole moulds, then drop them one after the other into a saute-pan con- taining boiling water mixed with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a little salt; keep this boiling while the eggs are being dropped in at the side of the saute-pan, and when they have poached for two minutes, drain, trim, and place each egg upon a square or oval piece of dry toast, spread with Anchovy butter (see p. 42), and some thin fillets of anchovies; dish up in a close circle, pour a little half-glaze under them, put a pinch of mignonette pepper in the centre of each egg, and serve. Poached Eggs with Ham Poach the eggs as before, and when done, dish up on thin oval slices of fried ham; pour some thin Poivrade sauce (see p. 8) under, and serve. Eggs a la Dauphine Boil six to eight eggs hard, take off the shells, and cut each egg into halves lengthwise; scoop out the yolks and put them into the mortar, and place the whites on a dish. Add two ounces of butter to the yolks of eggs, also the soaked crumb of a French roll, a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, pepper and salt, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese; pound the whole well together, and use this preparation for filling the whites of eggs kept on one side; smooth over with the blade of a small knife dipped in water, and as they are filled, place them on a dish. Next, with some of the remaining part of the preparation, spread a thin foundation at the bottom of the dish, and raise the eggs up, in three or four tiers, to a pyramidal form, a single egg crowning the whole: place a border of fried croutons of bread round the base, and set the eggs in the oven for about twenty minutes that they may bake a golden colour; when done, pour some thin Bechamel round the eggs, and serve. Eggs a l’Aurore Boil six eggs hard, remove the shells, and cut each egg into halves lengthwise; take the yolks out and place them on a dish, shred the whites up in fine strips and put these into a stew-pan with half a pint of Aurora sauce (see p. 11), toss them over the fire until quite hot, and then dish up in the centre of a border of croutons. First place a layer of the whites, then shake a little grated Parmesan cheese, after which rub some of the yolks throughEGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 377 a wire-sieve upon this, and so on, repeating the same until the whole is used up, finishing with the yolks of eggs, resembling vermicelli. Put the eggs in the oven to bake a golden colour, and then serve. Egg Timbales a la Cardinal (Cold) Four hard-boiled eggs, £ large lobster with spawn, 1 oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls cream, 1 gill Mayonnaise, £ pint aspic, anchovy essence, tomato cream. Line eight small timbale moulds with aspic jelly; when set, pour a thin layer of tomato cream stiffened with aspic in the bottom of each mould. Cut the eggs into quarter-inch-thick slices, remove the yolks, and range the whites in the timbale-moulds with alternate layers of aspic. Pound the lobster in a mortar, heat up the spawn with the butter, and add to the lobster. When finely pounded rub all through a sieve, add the Mayonnaise flavoured with a little anchovy essence, and enough aspic to stiffen the mixture when cold. Remove the aspic in the centre of each timbale mould, and fill the cavities with the prepared lobster mousse. Place on the ice to set, then turn out on to a cold dish. Garnish to taste, and serve Fried Eggs au Beurre Noir Put two ounces of butter into an omelet-pan over the fire : as soon as it begins to get hot, break five to six eggs into it, without breaking the yolks; season with pepper and salt, fry the eggs over the fire for five minutes, and then remove gently on to a dish. Next put one ounce more butter into the pan, fry it brown, then add two table- spoonfuls of French vinegar, boil the whole together for two minutes, pour over the eggs, and serve. Scrambled Eggs with Truffles Six eggs, 11 oz. butter, 1 large truffle, J glass Marsala, salt, pepper, nutmeg, 1 slice toasted bread. Cut the truffle into fine shreds; put in a stew-pan with the wine and a tiny piece of butter; cover and reduce the liquid to about half its quantity. Break the eggs into a basin; season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of grated nutmeg; mix thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stew-pan, pour in the eggs, stir over the fire until the mixture begins to set; then add the truffle, etc., quickly. Mix well together; stir over the fire for another minute; then turn on a hot dish on a slice of buttered toast; dress in a heap, garnish with a few sippets of toast, and serve. Note.—Cooked ham, tongue, mushrooms, peas, asparagus-points, etc., may be used as a change in place of the truffles, but for cooked vegetables the wine should be omitted and replaced with cream. Scrambled Eggs k la Turque Break six to eight eggs into a basin, season with pepper and salt and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Whisk them well and stir into a stew-pan containing an ounce of melted butter; stir over the fire till the eggs are set enough to be turned out, then dress them inTHE MODERN COOK 37*5 the form of a border on a hot round dish. Have ready a sauffi of chicken livers (finely sliced and tossed in butter, flavoured with shalot and parsley, and suitably seasoned); put these in the centre of the dish, pour some hot Tomato sauce round the base of the dish, and send to table immediately. Kromeskis of Eggs Three hard-boiled eggs, 2 raw yolks of egg, \ gill Bechamel sauce, ^ teaspoonful finely chopped truffle, \ oz. chopped ox-tongue, 5 thin pancakes (unsweetened), seasoning, frying batter, frying fat. Peel the eggs, cut them into slices, and chop rather coarsely; put them in a stew-pan, moisten with the sauce and the egg yolks, season to taste with pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Stir over the fire till hot, add the truffles and tongue, mix well, and turn on to a plate to cool. Shape into even-sized corks, wrap each in a square piece of pancake, dip into frying batter, and fry in hot fat. Drain, dish up on a-folded napkin, and garnish with crisp parsley. Eggs a la Reine Mince rather finely half a pound or more of cold cooked chicken or turkey, freed from skin, bone, and gristle. Fry this in a little butter, and moisten with sufficient Bechamel sauce to form a light salpicon. Keep hot. Poach in slightly salted water six new-laid eggs; trim them neatly. Put the mince in a round dish, and place the eggs neatly upon this. Glaze them with liquefied meat glaze, Lemco or Bovril, and surround the dish with eight small half-moon- shaped slices of bread fried in clarified butter. Garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve hot. Eggs a la St. Jacques Line eight to nine small bouche-moulds with puff-paste or rough puff-paste (roll out the paste rather thinly, and stamp out the rounds necessary for lining with a fluted cutter). Prick the bottom of the paste with a fork. Fill them with rice or dried peas, and bake them in a moderate oven to a golden colour. Unmould whilst hot. Brush over the outside and inside with beaten yolk of egg mixed with meat glaze, and return to the oven for a few minutes, then let cool. Poach, in smaller sized bouche moulds1 than those first used, as many eggs as are necessary. Unmould them and let cool, then mask them with aspic, and set each in one of the prepared crusts. Decorate with chopped aspic tinted with a little spinach greening. Dish up taste- fully, and serve. Eggs a la Suisse Spread the bottom of a silver dish with one ounce of fresh butter, cover this with rather thin slices of fresh Gruyere cheese, break four to six whole eggs upon the cheese without breaking the yolks; season with grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt; pour two tablespoonfuls of double cream on the surface, sprinkle over a little grated Gruyere cheese, and set the eggs in the oven to 1 Tartlet moulds can be used in place of bouche moulds.EGGS, OMELETS, AND FARINACEOUS DISHES 379 bake for about ten minutes or less; pass the hot salamander over the top, and serve with strips of very thin dry toast separately on a plate. Macaroni a l’ltalienne Break up half a pound of macaroni in two-inch lengths and put it on to boil in hot water; when done, drain, and as soon as the moisture is absorbed, dish it up in the following manner:—First put half a pint of good Tomato sauce into a stew-pan, and boil up over the fire; then add two pats of fresh butter with a small piece of glaze, and work the whole well together; next strew a layer of the macaroni on the bottom of a dish, then pour some of the sauce over it, and strew some grated Parmesan cheese over this: and so on, repeating the same until the dish is full; sprinkle over some grated cheese, put the macaroni in the oven for five minutes, and then serve while quite hot. Macaroni with Cream Boil half a pound of macaroni, and when done cut it up in two- inch lengths and put it into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of fresh butter, one and a half ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a similar quantity of Gruy^re cheese also grated, and a gill of good cream; season with mignonette pepper and salt, and toss the whole well together over the fire until well mixed and quite hot; then shake it up for a few minutes to make the cheese spin, so as to give it a fibrous appearance when drawn up with a fork. The macaroni, when dished up, must be garnished with fleurons of pastry, and then served. Macaroni au Gratin Cut up half a pound of macaroni as before, put it into a stew-pan with three ounces of grated cheese (Parmesan and Gruyfere in equal quantities), one ounce of fresh butter, and a gill of good Bechamel sauce; season with mignonette pepper and salt, toss the whole together over the fire until well mixed, then pile up in the centre of a border of fried croutons of bread; sprinkle over the top with fine bread-crumbs and grated Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions; add a little melted butter over the top of the macaroni, and then put it in the oven to brown lightly: it should then be served quite hot. Spaghetti fi la Creme Blanch and drain half a pound of spaghetti, and cook it in salted water until tender, then cool and drain and cut into short lengths of even size. Heat up half a pint of Bechamel sauce with two table- spoonfuls of Soubise puree, and add half a gill of cream. Put in the macaroni (spaghetti) and heat up gently. Season to taste, and dish up. Timbale of Macaroni a la Florentine Decorate a plain mould with some nouilles paste (see p. 392) mixed with a little sugar; then line the mould with some thin strips of fine short paste (see p. 391), which must be placed exactly in the same manner as when lining a charlotte mould with bread; fill the3So THE MODERN COOK timbale with rice, cover it in with some of the paste, and bake for about one hour; it must then be again emptied, and all the rice removed. While the timbale is being made, parboil six ounces of macaroni in water for a quarter of an hour, then drain on a sieve, and after- wards put it into a stew-pan with a pat of butter, half a pint of milk, a tablespoonful of cream, one ounce of sugar, a stick of vanilla, and a very little salt; then set the macaroni to boil very gently over a slow fire until it is thoroughly done—when it will have entirely absorbed the milk, etc.; toss the whole well together over the fire, remove the vanilla, and fill the timbale with the macaroni. Turn it out of the mould on to a dish, shake over some castor sugar, glaze it under a hot salamander, and send to table. Nouilles a la Palerrae Make half a pound of nouilles (see p. 208), parboil them in water with a little salt for about ten minutes, then drain them on a sieve, and afterwards put them in a stew-pan with a pint of stock or water, a pat of butter, a little grated nutmeg, mignonette pepper, and salt; place a circular piece of buttered paper on the top, put the lid on, and then set the nouilles over a slow fire, to boil very gently until the whole of the liquid has been absorbed. Next add a gill of cream, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, one ounce of butter, and a small piece of glaze; toss the whole well together over the fire, and then pile up in the centre of a border of croutons; shake some grated Parmesan cheese over the surface, put the dish in the oven to brown lightly, and send to table. Noukles a la Viennoise Put a gill of consomme into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter and a little pepper and salt; set this over the stove, and as soon as it begins to simmer, throw in about two and a half ounces of sifted flour to thicken the preparation into a soft paste, and keep stirring this over the fire for about three minutes, by which time the paste will leave the sides of the stew-pan; add a beaten egg, and one ounce of grated Parmesan cheese, and work the whole thoroughly together until well mixed, then mould it with two teaspoons into small quenelles; when this is done, place them on a buttered sauce- pan lid, and when about to poach them, slip off carefully into some boiling consomme, after gently boiling for about ten minutes, drain, and place them on a silver dish. Pour enough thin bright Espagnole sauce over to reach the surface, sprinkle some grated Parmesan cheese over the top, and set the noukles in the oven to simmer for about twenty minutes; just before sending to table pass a red-hot salamander over to brown the surface, and serve. Timbale of Nouilles h la Vanille Parboil half a pound of nouilles in water for ten minutes, then drain them on a sieve, and afterwards put them in a stew-pan with a pint of milk, a dessertspoonful of pounded vanilla, a pat of butter,381 SANDWICHES \ two ounces of sugar, and a little salt; cover with a circular piece of buttered paper, and put on the lid; then set on a slow fire to boil gently for about three-quarters of an hour, by which time the milk will be absorbed by the nouilles; add the yolks of two eggs, and mix the whole well together. Next spread a plain round or oval mould with butter, roll out some nouilles paste, and line the mould, coiled round as closely as possible, thus forming a kind of timbale; fill this with the prepared nouilles, place it on a baking-sheet, and put it in the oven to brown lightly; when done, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, shake some castor sugar over it, glaze with the red-hot salamander, and serve. SANDWICHES Sandwiches a la Regence For this purpose it is necessary to order a dozen very small round or oval rolls, about the size of an egg; cut a small piece off the top of each, about the circumference of a half-crown piece, and remove all the crumb from the inside. These rolls must then be filled with the following preparation:—First chop up the white meat from the breast of half a roast fowl, and put this in a basin; then chop the fillets of two washed anchovies, and a few slices of red tongue or dressed ham; add about one-sixth part of the whole of Indian gherkins or mangos, also chopped finely; season with a little chopped tarragon and chervil, add sufficient Remoulade sauce (see p. 23) to moisten the whole, and use the preparation as directed. The rolls must then be covered with the tops, and dished up on a napkin. Note.—These sandwiches may also be prepared with lobster; in which case, neither ham nor tongue should be used. Sandwiches of Fillets of Soles Simmer the fillets of one or more soles in a saute-pan with a little clarified butter, pepper, salt, and lemon juice; when done, put them in press between two dishes, and afterwards divide each fillet into four portions; trim, and put them into a basin with a little mignon- ette pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. Cut the tops off some small oval rolls and remove the crumb; first strew the bottom of each roll with a little salad, then place a portion of sole upon this, add a little Mayonnaise sauce (see p. 23), then strew some salad on the surface, cover with the tops, and dish up. Note.—Sandwiches of lobster or salmon are prepared in a similar manner. Badminton Sandwiches Cut some square slices from a loaf of stale bread, barely a quarter of an inch thick; toast these, and then let them be split or divided with a sharp knife. The inner or untoasted sides must beTHE MODERN COOK 382 spread with anchovy butter, and over this place closely some fillets of anchovies ; cover the whole with the other piece of toast previously spread with anchovy butter, press down the sandwich with a knife, and after beating cut the preparation into small oblong shapes, dish up, and serve. Bretby Sandwiches Cut some thin slices of white bread and butter; then cover half these, first with finely shred white-heart lettuce, then with very thin slices of roast or boiled fowl; these to be placed alternately side by side with fillets of anchovies; strew some shred lettuce over this, place a slice of bread and butter over the whole, and after slightly pressing the sandwich with the blade of a knife, proceed to cut into oblong shapes. Dish the sandwiches neatly, and serve. Summer Sandwiches Between thin slices of white or brown bread and butter place some very thin slices of any of the following kind of meats: ham, tongue, boiled or roast beef, roast mutton, poultry, or game. Season with pepper and salt and a little mustard; strewT some mustard and cress, small salad, or, if preferred, some finely shred lettuce over the meat; press the sandwich together with the blade of a knife, cut it into small oblong shapes, dish up neatly, and send to table. Indian Sandwiches Cut the breast of a roast fowl or pheasant in very small square, dice-like pieces, and place on a plate; take about one ounce of red tongue or lean ham, and two anchovies (previously washed and filleted), cut these also in small dice, and mix them with the chicken. Next put a quarter of a pint of Veloute sauce and a teaspoonful of curry paste into a stew-pan, boil these over the fire, stirring it mean- while until reduced to the consistency of a thick sauce ; then add the chicken, etc., and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, mix the whole well together, and use this preparation in the following manner:— Cut some thin slices from a tin loaf, and with a circular cutter, about an inch and a half in diameter, stamp out one and a half dozen croutons; fry these a golden colour, drain, and place one half on a baking-sheet covered with clean paper; spread a thick layer of the above preparation on each of these, and then cover them with the remaining croutons; about ten minutes before sending to table put them in the oven to warm thoroughly, pass the red-hot salamander over them to slightly colour them, dish up on a napkin, and serve. Anchovy Sandwiches Order eight to ten very small round rolls, rasp them all over, cut off the top, remove all the crumb, place them on a dish and set them aside. Next chop two hard-boiled eggs very finely, and put this into a small basin with a dessertspoonful of chopped tarragon, chervil, chives, and burnet; season with one tablespoonful of3S3 SANDWICHES salad oil, one of French vinegar, pepper and a little salt; mix the whole well together, and use this preparation for filling the rolls with ; then place some small fillets of anchovies (previously prepared) over the sandwiches, at about one-eighth of an inch distant from each other, and place another row of fillets across these at a similar distance. Dish the sandwiches up in the form of a pyramid, and serve. Salmon Sandwiches Cut some thin slices of white or brown bread and butter them ; place a thin layer of boiled cold salmon on the buttered side of the bread. Spread over with a little stiff Tartare sauce, also a layer of finely shredded lettuce, or thin slices of cucumber. Cover with a second slice of bread, and press. Cut into squares or oblongs. Dish up, and garnish tastefully. Note.—Potted salmon, or salmon paste, may be used in place of cold salmon, but the latter makes by far a more tasty sandwich. Chasseur Sandwiches Cut some slices of white bread, about a quarter of an inch in thickness; toast them lightly on both sides, 'split' open and butter them; lay between them some very thin slices of roast game; spread a little Tartare sauce, with which a little French mustard has been mixed, over the meat; press them together. Pack them in waterproof butter paper so as to keep them moist; wash and drain a little endive and small cress, wrap up in butter paper, and pack it with the sandwiches. Note.—Almost any kind of meat can be made up into sandwiches in this style. Swedish Sandwiches Chop finely one gherkin, six stoned olives, and one teaspoonful of capers, and mix with half a gill of stiff Mayonnaise sauce. Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them, spread half the number of slices of bread (buttered sides) with the above mixture, and spread the remainder of slices with cream cheese (bondons or petit Suisse). Sprinkle over each slice a pinch of cayenne or Nepaul pepper, press the slices (spread sides) together in pairs, cut the pieces into rounds, triangles, ovals, or fingers, dish up, garnish, and serve. Egg Sandwiches Boil three fresh eggs for ten minutes; when cold, remove the shells and pound the yolk and white together in a mortar, with an ounce of fresh butter; when quite smooth add salt, pepper, and a little cayenne to taste. Spread the mixture thus on thinly cut bread and butter, press well, trim them, cut them into neat pieces, and serve on a napkin, garnished with parsley. Note.—Slices of hard-boiled eggs introduced between the slices of bread and butter also make nice egg sandwiches.384 THE MODERN COOK Normandy Sandwiches Mix finely chopped fresh shrimps or prawns with a little anchovy cream (anchovy paste mixed with whipped cream), and spread this between thinly cut and lightly buttered slices of white bread. Make up into neatly shaped portions, and dish up. Tartare Sandwiches Chop finely some lean cooked ham, also about a third the quantity of French gherkins and a few capers. Mix them with a little stiff Mayonnaise and tarragon vinegar. Spread the preparation between thinly cut slices of buttered bread, and make up into small sandwiches—diamond, finger, or oval shapes. Dish up, and garnish with fan-shaped slices of gherkin and parsley. Foie=Gras Sandwiches Turn out a tin or terrine of foie-gras (goose-liver), remove the fat, cut into thin slices, taking care not to break the slices. Prepare thin slices of bread and butter; lay the foie-gras between two slices, trim, press them, and stamp out into neatly shaped slices. Dish up tastefully, and garnish. Milanese Sandwiches Prepare some thin slices of slightly toasted and buttered bread; spread one side with a layer of stiff Tartare sauce; lay upon this some slices of cooked game and some finely shredded celery. Place two together, press and trim neatly, cut into desired shapes, and dish up in a circle. Garnish the dish with aspic jelly cut into dice, and small salad. Cheese Sandwiches Prepare some thin slices of bread and butter, spread the buttered sides with a little mixed mustard, sprinkle thickly with grated Gruyere or cheddar cheese, season with white pepper, salt, and a pinch of paprika pepper. Press the two covered sides of the slices together, cut them into oblongs, dish up neatly, and garnish with parsley. Potted Pheasant a la Royale Truss a pheasant for boiling, and braise it with a few slices of ham in some well-seasoned wine mirepoix; when done, drain it upon a dish, strain the liquor into a stew-pan, take off the fat, and boil it down to glaze. Meanwhile chop and pound all the meat from the breast of the pheasant with the ham, and add two ounces of clarified fresh butter, one and a half gills of good sauce, and the glaze; season with cayenne pepper, a little nutmeg and salt, pound the whole thoroughly, and rub this preparation through a fine wire-sieve on to a dish. Next fill some small round or oval earthenware pipkins with this preparation, smooth the surface over with a spoon dipped in water, place in a covered stew-pan and steam for about half an hour. The puree must then be allowed to cool; press down the meat in theSANDWICHES 385 pots, wipe them clean, and pour a little clarified fresh butter over the surface before serving. Note.—All kinds of game should be potted in the above manner, and will then keep fresh for months. If liked, more spice and herbs may be added; but too much seasoning spoils the flavour of the game. Potted Fowl and Tongue Pare off all the meat from the breast of a roast fowl, chop and pound it thoroughly with a few slices of boiled red tongue or dressed ham; add two ounces of clarified fresh butter, a small piece of glaze (made with the bones of the fowl), and a gill of good Bechamel sauce; season with cayenne pepper, nutmeg, and salt; and when the whole has been thoroughly mixed by pounding, rub through a fine wire-sieve, and then finish as directed for potted pheasant. Potted Lobster Take the meat, pith, and coral out of the shell of a small fresh lobster; cut up in slices, and put the whole into a stew-pan with one ounce of clarified fresh butter and one whole anchovy (washed and wiped dry); season with mace, peppercorns, and a little salt, then put the lid on the stew-pan and leave to simmer very gently over a slow fire for about a quarter of an hour. Then thoroughly pound in a mortar, rub through a sieve, put the pur£e into small moulds, steam, and when cold press down with the back of a spoon, and cover the surface with a little clarified butter. Potted Prawns or Shrimps Pick half a pint of fresh-boiled prawns or shrimps, and reserve the heads and shells; pound them in a mortar with two anchovies (previously washed and wiped dry for the purpose), and then rub the whole through a hair-sieve, and put the produce with the picked shrimps into a stew-pan with one and a half ounces of clarified fresh butter; season with some grated nutmeg, cayenne pepper, and a little salt; simmer the whole together over a slow fire for about ten minutes, then toss the shrimps in the seasoning occasionally until they become nearly cold; they must then be put into pots, with a little clarified butter poured over the surface, and set aside in a cool place for use. Potted Bloaters Take two or three cured bloaters, plunge them in scalding water, and remove the skins; wipe them dry, take out the bones, and put the fillets of herrings into a stew-pan with two ounces of clarified fresh butter, a blade of mace, and enough cayenne to season; leave to simmer for about ten minutes, then thoroughly pound the whole well together in a mortar and rub it through a sieve. Put this preparation into pots, pour a little clarified butter over the surface, and keep in a cool place for use. Note.—Smoked or kippered salmon, or Finnan haddocks, mayTHE MODERN COOK 386 be potted in the same way. When steamed, they should keep good for months. Much, however, depends on the freshness of the butter: should it become rancid, as frequently happens after a few weeks, it will, of course, spoil the flavour of the potted fish. COLD RAISED MEAT AND GAME PIES, Etc. French Veal and Ham Pie Take an ordinary raised pie mould and well butter the inside, and line it about one-third of an inch thick with a good short paste. Take about two pounds of fillet of veal and cut into thin slices. Over each of these spread a little well-flavoured force-meat, and roll lightly into a finger shape. Have ready some thin slices of lean gammon and wrap round the veal. Line the already prepared paste with a layer of force-meat and build up the centre with the shaped veal and ham alternately with slices of hard-boiled eggs, seasoning each layer with pepper, salt, and aromatic spices, and adding plenty of nicely jellied stock. When the mould is full and piled up into a dome shape, cover the top with paste, trim off edges, and neatly close with pincers. Decorate the top with paste and bake in a good solid oven for two to three hours. When done, withdraw and put on one side for about twenty minutes; take a fine skewer and insert right into the pie, gently loosening the meat which will have become coagulated owing to the albumen. When all is nicely separated, fill the mould gradually with some well-flavoured and jellied stock, which should be the same heat as the pie. When added, stand in a cool place until ready for use. Note.—The same procedure should be followed in making a dish pie with the exception of the force-meat lining. The top of a dish pie should be covered with puff paste decorated. Veal and Ham Timbale First lard about one and three-quarters of a pound of veal with lardoons or strips of fat bacon ; cut this in slices across the grain of the meat, and put them on a dish with about half a pound of cooked ham, cut also in slices. Next butter the inside of a plain mould, and line it with short paste (see p. 391) about a quarter of an inch thick ; line the inside of this with a rather thick layer of force- meat (see p. 60), then place the veal and ham in alternate layers, season between each with aromatic spices, pepper and salt, and half a gill of stock or water, fill up the hollow places and cover in the surface with some of the force-meat: place some thin layers of fat bacon over the whole, and cover in the top with some of the paste, previously rolled out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch. The edges should then be neatly trimmed, and decorated with pastry pincers; decorate the top of the timbale with thin strips of paste, cut out in the form of leaves, etc., neatly arranged according to taste and fancy. Egg over the surface with a paste- brush, make a small hole in the centre of the top of the pie forCOLD RAISED MEAT AND GAME PIES, ETC. 387 the steam to escape, and bake it in the oven for about two hours; when done, withdraw from the oven, place the point of a funnel in the hole at the top of the timbale, and through this pour in about half a pint of good well-seasoned strong consomme, reduced to the consistency of half-glaze ; stop up the hole with a small piece of paste, and keep the timbale in a cool place until wanted. Capon Pie with Truffles First bone a capon, spread it out on the table, and season the inside with prepared spices and a little salt; then spread a layer of force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61), and upon this, in alternate rows, some square fillets or strips of fat bacon, tongue, and truffles; cover these with a layer of the force-meat, repeat the strips of bacon, then fold both sides of the skin over each other so as to give to the capon a plump appearance, sew up neatly, and set aside on a dish. Prepare some thin slices of cooked ham. Prepare some hot-water paste (see p. 391); take two-thirds of this, mould it into a round ball on the slab with the palm of the hand, and then roll it out in the form of a band; trim the edges, and pare the ends square, taking care to cut them in a slanting direction; wet them with a paste-brush dipped in water, and wrap them over one another neatly and firmly so as to show the join as little as possible. Next roll out half the remainder of the paste, either in a circular or oval form, about a quarter of an inch thick, to the size the pie is intended to be made; place this, with buttered paper under it, on a baking-sheet, wet it round the edge with a paste-brush dipped in water, and stick a narrow band of the paste, about half an inch high, all round it, to within about an inch of the edge : the wall or crust of the pie is to be raised up round this. Then, by pressing the upper part of the pie with the fingers and thumbs of both hands, it may be made to resemble the curved lip of a vase. The base must be spread out in proportion to the top, by pressing on it with the thumb. The bottom and sides of the pie should now be lined with a coating of force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61), or, if preferred, with veal and fat bacon, in equal proportions, well seasoned, chopped fine and pounded; next add the ham, previously cut up in slices and well seasoned, and fill up the cavity with some of the force-meat; then add the capon and cover it over, and round, with the remainder of the force-meat, and cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon. Roll out the remainder of the paste, and after wetting this, and the pie round the edges, use it to cover in the pie, pressing the edges of both tightly with the fingers and thumb, in order to make them adhere closely together; trim the edge neatly and decorate with the pastry pincers. The pie should then be egged over, and decorated with any scraps of paste left over, first rolled out thin, then cut out in the form of leaves, half-moons, rings, etc., and arranged accord- ing to taste and fancy. The pie must then be placed in the oven and baked for about three and a half hours, and when done, about three-quarters of a pint of strongly reduced consommd338 THE MODERN COOK should be introduced within it through a funnel: it must then be kept in a cold place until wanted for use. Before serving, the cover should be carefully removed without breaking it, and after the top of the pie has been decorated with some bright aspic jelly, it may be put on again and sent to table. Note.—For making pies of turkeys, fowls, pheasants, grouse, par- tridges, etc., follow the above directions. Yorkshire or Christmas Pie First bone a young pheasant, a partridge, a woodcock, two snipes, a grouse. Season and stuff the inside of the game, as directed in the previous recipe, with fillets of fat bacon and tongue and French truffles; each must be carefully sewn up with a needle and string so as to prevent the force-meat from escaping while they are being baked. When these are ready, line a round or oval braising-pan with thin layers of fat bacon, and after the birds have been covered in with layers of bacon and buttered paper, put the lid on, and put them in the oven to bake rather slowly for about one and a half to two hours. Meanwhile prepare some highly-seasoned aspic jelly, of which one-half should be reduced previous to being poured into the pie when baked. Make about two and a half pounds of hot-water paste (see p. 391) and use it to raise a pie sufficiently large to hold the game prepared for the purpose (for making which see the previous recipe). The inside of the pie must first be lined with thin layers of fat bacon, over which spread a coating of well-seasoned force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61); the birds should then be put in, and the cavities filled in with force-meat and truffles. Cover the whole with thin layers of fat bacon, run a little plain melted butter over the surface, cover the pie in the usual manner, and ornament with a bold design. The pie must now be baked for about two and a half hours in a moderate oven, and when taken out, pour in the reduced aspic, stop the hole up with a small piece of paste, and set aside in the larder to become cold. These very large pies are mostly in request at Christmas time. Devonshire Squab Pie Make three-quarters of a pound of short paste (see p. 391), and set aside till wanted. Then cut about one and a half pounds of griskin of pork in slices, season with a little chopped onion, sage and thyme, pepper and salt, and place on a dish; cut half a pound of streaky bacon (previously parboiled for a quarter of an hour) also in slices, and put them with the pork; to these add about four good apples, which, when peeled and the cores taken out, must be cut in thick slices and put on a plate. Next take rather more than half the paste, roll it out, and line an oblong tin mould, about two inches deep, with it; then arrange the pork, bacon, and apples in this, in alternate layers, commencing with the bacon, over this put slices of apples, and then the pork, and so on until the whole is used up.COLD RAISED MEAT AND GAME PIES, ETC. 389 The remainder of the paste must now be rolled out, and used to cover the pie; fasten securely round the edges, trim, and decorate it with the pincers; ornament the top with leaves, etc., egg over, and bake in an oven of moderate heat for about one and a half to two hours, and serve hot. Leicestershire Pork Pie Cut one and a half to two pounds of pork in square pieces, fat and lean, about the size of a cob-nut, season with pepper and salt and a small quantity of sage and thyme chopped finely, and set aside. Next make some hot-water paste (see p. 391), using for this purpose lard instead of butter, in the proportion of eight ounces to the pound of flour. These pies must be raised by hand in the following manner:—First mould the paste into a round ball upon the slab, then roll it out to the thickness of half an inch, and with the back of the right hand indent the centre in a circle reaching to within three inches of the edge of the paste; next gather up the edges all round, pressing it closely with the fingers and thumbs so as to give it the form of a purse; then continue to work it upwards until the sides are raised sufficiently high; the pie should now be placed on a baking-sheet, with a round of buttered paper under it, and after it has been filled with the pork, covered in with some of the paste in the usual manner. Trim the edges with the pincers, decorate it, egg over, and bake until done: calculating the time it should remain in the oven according to the quantity of meat it- contains. Eel Pie Bone a good-sized eel, spread it out on a dish, and sprinkle over with a little pepper and salt. Make some quenelle force-meat with either perch, tench, or carp; and after having mixed with it some chopped mushrooms and parsley, spread a thick layer of it inside the eel, roll up, cut into two-inch lengths, and place on a dish until wanted. Next line a plain mould with short paste (see p. 391), arrange the pieces, of eel in it, season between each layer with chopped parsley and mushrooms, pepper and salt, and a table- spoonful of good Bechamel sauce; cover in the pie, in the usual manner, with some of the paste, pinch the edge round, ornament the top, egg over, and bake in the oven for about an hour and a half; when done, dish up on a napkin, and send to table. Note.—When eel pies are intended to be eaten cold, the top should be removed, and the pie ornamented with aspic jelly before sending to table. Salmon Pie a la Russe Make about one pound of short paste (see p. 391) and keep in a cool place till wanted. Cut one and a half pounds of fresh salmon in slices about half an inch thick, and set aside on a plate; fillet two or three anchovies, cut up half-a-dozen olives (removing the stone by paring off the outer part without altering the shape), boil one egg hard, and place the whole of these on a dish. ChopTHE MODERN COOK 39° two or three mushrooms, a shalot, a few sprigs of parsley, a little green thyme, sweet basil, and tarragon : put these ingredients into a stew-pan with an ounce of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, and simmer them over the fire for about five minutes; then add about half a pint of good brown sauce and a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and stir the whole together over the fire for five minutes longer. Next roll out two-thirds of the paste to the thickness of the sixth of an inch, line a greased oblong mould with this, and fill with alternate layers of slices of salmon, hard egg, olives, and fillets of anchovies, at the same time spreading some of the Fine Herbs sauce in between each layer; the pie must be covered in with the remainder of the paste in the usual manner. Bake in a moderately heated oven for about one hour and a half, and when done, dish up on a napkin, and send to table. Note.—These pies may also be made with sturgeon, trout, mackerel, char, gurnets, eels, soles, etc.; the addition of some sliced tunny fish 1 will greatly improve the flavour. Preserved Hare and other Game Bone a small hare, lard it with narrow strips of fat bacon, well seasoned with aromatic spices (see p. 391), and salt; then stuff the inside with some force-meat of fat livers (see p. 61), and fold up the hare so as to give it a plump oval form; sew up neatly; then place in an oval stew-pan with a little stock; cover with thin layers of fat bacon, put the lid on the stew-pan, and put it in the oven to partially cook the hare: it should then be withdrawn. Meanwhile line the bottom and sides of a sufficiently large oval baking-dish with thin layers of fat bacon, over these spread a coating of force-meat about an inch thick, and place the hare in it; press down tight, spread a thick layer of force-meat on the top, cover with layers of fat bacon, and place a covering of ordinary short paste over the whole; put the baking-dish on a baking-sheet in the oven to bake slowly for about two hours: it should then be withdrawn and allowed to cool. Remove the paste, and after pouring over the surface some well-reduced glaze, to the depth of about a quarter of an inch, keep the pie in a cool place until wanted for use. When this kind of pie is intended to be kept for any length of time, some lard should be run over the surface to the depth of about an inch; when this has set firm by cooling, the dish should be covered in with strong white paper pasted over it, or a bladder (soaked in water and well washed) may be tied over it. Note.—All kinds of game may be preserved after this method ; and, if preferred, game may be used instead of livers for making the force-meat. Indeed, this is by far the best plan when the preserved game is intended to be kept for any length of time, as force-meat, when made with livers, is more liable to fermentation than when made with fresh game. 1 Tunny is a fish abounding in the Mediterranean, and may be procured pre- served in oil from Italian warehousemen and grocery stores.39i PASTES FOR PIES, TIMBALES, ETC. Aromatic Spices for Seasoning Take one ounce of nutmegs and mace, two ounces of cloves and white peppercorns, one ounce of sweet basil, marjoram, and thyme, and half an ounce of bay leaves: these herbs should be previously dried for the purpose; pound the spices in a mortar, then place the whole of the above ingredients between two sheets of strong white paper, and after the sides have been twisted or folded over tightly, so as to prevent as much as possible the evaporation of the volatile properties of the herbs and spices, put them on a baking-sheet in the oven to become perfectly dry; they must then be sifted through a fine hair-sieve, corked up tightly in a dry bottle, and kept for use. PASTES FOR PIES, TIMBALES, Etc. Hot> Water Paste for Raised Pies Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. lard or lard and butter, 1 small teaspoonful salt, about gills hot water or milk. Put the flour on the board, spread it out with the back of the hand so as to form a well or hollow in the centre; into this put the salt. Next put the fat and water into a stew-pan over the fire, and when just hot enough so that one can bear the finger in, pour both gradually to the flour, and mix quickly together with the hand, taking care to knead the whole firmly into a smooth paste; keep covered up in a warm place till wanted. French Paste for Raised Pies Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, i£ gills cold water. Put the flour on the slab, make a well in the centre, then add the salt, water, and butter, and work the whole together with the hands into a firm paste as follows:—When the ingredients have been worked into a paste, this must be brought to the edge of the slab ; then use the palms of both hands, applying them alternately, with great force, to spread and divide the paste into small parts; sprinkle a few drops of water over the paste, and knead it together: this is called breaking and kneading, and must be repeated three or four times. The paste must then be gathered up, and finally kneaded together by pressing upon it with the elbow. It will then be ready for use. Short Paste for Timbales, Etc. Ingredients: i lb. flour, £ lb. butter, 1 teaspoonful salt, the yolk of an egg, and nearly £ pt. water. Make a well in the centre of the flour, put in this the yolk of egg, salt, butter, and two-thirds of the water, then work the whole together with the hands into a rather firm paste; sprinkle a little water over it, and then work the whole together into a ball, and keep on one side till wanted.392 THE MODERN COOK Rough Puff Paste Ingredients : i lb. flour, 12 oz. butter, a little salt, the yolk of an egg, and about | pt. water. Spread the flour out in the usual manner and make a well in the centre, place the egg, salt, half the butter, and two-thirds of the water at first, adding as much of the remainder as may be necessary afterwards; work these together into a smooth paste, then spread this out with the hand, and after the remaining half of the butter has been placed in the centre, the sides should be folded over so as to entirely enclose the butter. When the paste has stood five minutes, sprinkle some flour over the slab and on the paste, then roll out to a long strip; this must be then folded into three, and after turning the paste round so as to bring the sides to face you, roll out again in a similar manner; after an interval of about ten minutes, repeat the rolling1 twice more, when the paste will be ready for use. Short Paste for Tarts Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, ^ lb. butter, x oz. castor sugar, a very little salt, 1 yolk of egg, and about i| gills water. Spread the flour out on the slab with a well in the centre, rub in the butter, then add the sugar, salt, water, and the yolk of egg. Work the whole together with the hands into a firm paste, and use it for covering fruit tarts and lining tartlets, etc. Nouille Paste Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, about 3 yolks of eggs, 1 teaspoonful salt, and a little milk or water if necessary. Sift the flour on the slab, make a well in the centre, then put the salt in, with a little water to melt it, and add the yolks; work the whole well together, at first rubbing the ingredients between the fingers, and then finish working the paste by pushing it from you with the palms of the hands, using considerable pressure; sprinkle a few drops of water over it, then knead the paste into a ball, and keep on one side until wanted for use. This paste must be made very stiff. Pate d5Office Ingredients : J lb. flour, 6 oz. castor sugar, 2 eggs. Sift the flour on the slab, making a well in the centre, then add the sugar and the eggs, and work the whole into a stiff paste. If the paste should appear dry and difficult to knead, another yolk of egg may be added. This paste is mostly used for making pastry ornaments or for lining purposes. Almond Paste Take one pound of fine quality ground almonds (two ounces of which might be bitter almonds), two pounds of fine castor sugar, the grated rind of two oranges together with the juice of one. Mix 1 Each time the paste is rolled, as here described, it is termed by cooks, “ giving it a turn." This kind of paste requires only four turns.393 PASTES FOR PIES, TIMBALES, ETC. this all well together by rubbing it well between the palms of the hands, add a little orange-flower water and mix with a whole egg firmly and quickly to the desired consistency. If a deep-yellow colour is desired, mix with all yolks instead of eggs, or if a white paste is desired, use the whites only which have been previously beaten stiff. Gum Paste Ingredients : i oz. gum-arabic, | lb. castor sugar, and h lb. cornflour. First steep the gum in a small basin with a good gill of water, cover over with paper, and put the basin in a warm place; when the gum has absorbed all the water, strain through muslin, then work it on a slab with the palm of the hand, mixing in the sugar at intervals. When the gum has absorbed all the sugar, the corn- flour must be gradually worked in with it until a stiff paste is formed. Then keep it in a damp place until wanted, to prevent its becoming dry and hard. Puff Paste Ingredients : i lb. flour, i lb. firm fresh butter, a little salt and cold water. The secret in making puff paste is not, as is so generally supposed, the lightness of handling, but rather the regularity of mixing and folding. The flour and salt should be mixed with the water to the same consistency as the butter, and should be kept the same right through the process. Unless this is the case the two will not amalgamate in perfect layers, as it should to ensure good results. If the paste is soft and the butter hard, in turning the butter will not spread out between the layers of paste as it should, but will drive through it, thereby breaking the continuity of the layer, and the result will be irregular; likewise if the butter is soft and the paste is hard, the same effect will be produced in the opposite way. The paste will drive through the butter. The reason puff paste rises in the oven is that the very thin layers of butter, coming in contact with the heat, causes it to boil, and that forces the next thin layer of paste upwards. This operation taking place in each layer causes the whole thing to rise, so that it will be easily seen that where either the continuity of the layers of butter or paste is broken, it is bound to cause an irregularity. For this same reason, great care should be taken to ensure the folded edges to be perfectly straight. After the flour and water have been mixed to their proper con- sistency and worked to a smooth paste, it should be allowed to lie on the slab about a quarter of an hour so that it may lose its toughness. When this has been done, take the rolling-pin and roll it out about half an inch thick and about 18 inches long by 6 inches wide, spread the butter in little pieces over the top of this, and flatten with the palm of the hand. Now take one end of the paste and bring it about two-thirds across the top of the other, then lift the remaining third across the portion already doubled. You394 THE MODERN COOK have now two distinct layers of butter; roll this out until it gets to the original size of the paste ; repeat this process six times, includ- ing the first, and allow it to stand about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour between each turn, covered with a damp cloth to prevent a skin forming. The paste is then ready for cutting out as desired. VOL-AU-VENT, TOURTE, AND PATTY CASES Vol=au=vent Cases for Entrees Roll out a pound of puff paste made as in the previous recipe. Five turns must be given to the paste, allowing about seven minutes to elapse between each turn. Then roll out to the required size for the vol-au-vent. Next roll out about four ounces of ordinary short crust to the size of a dinner-plate, lay this on the puff paste, passing the rolling-pin over; next turn over the paste, and then place it on a baking-sheet. Stamp out into an oval shape with a fluted cutter. Remove the trimmings, egg over the surface, but be careful not to smear the edges of the paste, as that would prevent it from rising evenly; then with the point of a small knife, held slanting, make a slight incision all round the surface, within about three-quarters of an inch of the edge, and with the point notch round the extreme edge of the inner circle so as to separate it entirely from the inner edge of the outer circle, or else stamp out the centre with a smaller fluted cutter. The vol-au-vent should now be put into the oven (not too hot, as excess of heat prevents the paste from rising). When it has risen about two inches, and before it has had time to brown, a broad band of double paper, measuring two inches more in circumference than the vol-au-vent, about eight inches high, and fastened in the form of a hoop, must be placed round it to protect the sides from being suddenly caught by the heat, which otherwise would not only scorch it, but also prevent it rising to its full height. It should remain in the oven three-quarters of an hour to be thoroughly baked. When the vol-au-vent is done, remove the paper and carefully scoop out the centre, taking care not to injure the sides of the vol-au-vent. Tourte Cases for Entrees Prepare half a pound of puff paste, and give it four turns in the usual manner; make also four ounces of ordinary short crust, take half of this, knead it into a round ball, roll it out to the size of a dinner-plate, put it on a round baking-sheet, and place a tampoon1 of paper in the centre. The puff paste must then be rolled out into a long strip, and folded lengthwise in three; this must be rolled again in the same direction, just sufficient to make it about four inches wide: the paste should then be slightly wetted over, and folded as before; by this time it should form a band about half an inch thick. The edges of the paste must now be pared away with a small sharp 1 From the French word “ tampon," a kind of small, hard cushion : in the present case, it should consist of a large sheet of rather soft paper, twisted into the form of a circular cushion, about four inches in diameter.VOL-AU-VENT, TOURTE, AND PATTY CASES 395 knife, held perpendicularly in the right hand, whilst the paste must be slightly pressed on the slab with the forepart of the fingers. Next add the trimmings of the puff paste to the remaining half of the short crust, knead both together, roll out to the size of a plate, and after having first wetted the foundation round the edge, place it over the tampoon, and press down all round with the thumb; then wet the edge of the tourte round again, and apply the band in the follow- ing manner:—Take hold of the band at both ends, and begin by fastening that held in the right hand round the edge of the tourte, and continue fixing the band all round as fast as it is dropped in its place with the left hand; press the first end down so as to thin it, wet this part with the brush, and after paring away a little of the other end, so as to thin that also, fasten both together by neatly joining. Press the band down all round with the thumb, and flute the edge by jagging it slightly with the back of a knife. The tourte must then be egged over with a paste-brush, carefully avoiding smearing the edges of the band. Place in a moderate oven, and bake a light brown; when done, make an incision with a small knife all round the outer edge of the crown inside the band, remove the crown or top, take out the tampoon, and the case will then be ready for garnishing. Puff=Paste Bouchee or Patty Cases Make half a pound of puff paste as described on p. 393, and give it seven turns, wetting the last turn before folding it; then ro-ll the paste out barely a quarter of an inch thick, take a fluted circular cutter about two inches in diameter, and stamp out a dozen or more patties; previous to stamping out each patty, the cutter should be dipped in hot water, as the heat causes it to slip easily through the paste, as if cut with a sharp knife. As soon as the patties are cut out, place in rows on a baking-sheet, about two inches apart from each other; egg them over with a soft brush dipped in beaten egg, being careful not to smear the edges, and stamp them in the centre, making a slight incision through their surface with a plain circular cutter about one inch and a half in diameter (this cutter must also be dipped in hot water each time it is used). The patties should then be put in a quick oven and baked a golden colour; when done, take off the tops, pick out the inner crumb carefully with the point of a small knife, and fill as required, replacing the tops before serving. Croustade Cases Roll out a quarter of a pound of timbale paste (see p. 391) to the thickness of a penny-piece, then take a circular cutter, about four inches in diameter, and stamp out a dozen rounds. Line a greased dariole-mould with the prepared paste: use the thumb to make the paste lie evenly in the mould, trim away the edges, raise the sides a little, line with paper and fill each croustade with raw rice, and bake them a golden colour; when done, empty out the rice, and place them on a dish. The tops must be stamped out with a small396 THE MODERN COOK circular fluted cutter from some puff paste, rolled seven turns; put these on a baking-sheet, egg them over with a soft brush, place a much smaller circular piece of paste on the top of each, again egg these over, and then bake them a golden colour; when done, trim, and place each on the top of one of the croustades after they are garnished. Timbales of Nouille Paste Prepare half a pound of nouilles as directed on p. 208, and parboil them in water for ten minutes, then drain thoroughly; after- wards toss them with an ounce of butter, a tablespoonful of good Bechamel sauce, and a little grated nutmeg in a deep dish over the fire for five minutes; then put them into a deep dish slightly spread with butter; cover them down evenly with a circular piece of buttered paper, and let them get cold. The preparation must then be turned out of the stew-pan on the table, upon a sheet of paper; and the croustades or timbales should be stamped out of this with a plain circular cutter about an inch and a half in diameter, and placed on a dish; they must next be rolled in fine bread-crumbs, afterwards dipped in beaten egg, and then bread-crumbed over again. Smooth the bread-crumbs on the timbales by rolling and patting them, place them on a dish, and with a plain circular cutter, an inch in diameter, stamp out the surface of each, exactly in the centre, making only a slight incision. When about to send the timbales to table, place them carefully in a frying-basket, plunge them in hot fat, and fry them a bright golden colour ; when done, drain, empty them carefully with a fork, and fill as required, replacing the top before sending to table. Note.—Croustades or small timbales may also be made of vermicelli or rice, prepared in the same way as nouilles. Bouchdes a la Mazarin Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste, roll it out to the thickness of a penny-piece, and stamp out two dozen tops with a plain circular cutter, about one inch and a half in diameter; then gather up the trimmings, knead together, roll out, and stamp two dozen more; place these on a baking-sheet, about an inch and a half apart from each other, and wet them over with a soft brush; garnish the centre of each with a little force-meat of any kind, place the tops on them, and press down so as to fasten the two parts together; they must then be egged over, and baked in a rather quick oven; when done, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve. Mutton Patties a la Windsor Trim some slices of lean mutton; cut up into small pieces, and mix these with some fine herbs, consisting of chopped mushrooms, parsley, and shalot; season with pepper and salt, and add half a gill of reduced Espagnole sauce: use this preparation to fill some croustades lined with short crust, cover them with some of the same kind of paste, and bake them a light golden colour. When done,CAKES IN GENERAL 397 remove the tops from the patties, pour a little thin Espagnole or Italian sauce in each, cover them with puff-paste tops (made similar to croustade tops), and serve. Note.—Croustades and patties are garnished with scallops or ragouts of chicken, game, all kinds of fillets of fish, the tails of cray- fish, prawns, and shrimps; with oysters in scallops or small dice, and also with lobster cut up in small dice. They may be sauced either with Supreme, Bechamel or Allemande, Lobster, Oyster or Crayfish sauces. CAKES IN GENERAL Brioche Paste Ingredients : i lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, £ oz. German yeast, 1 teaspoonful each salt and sugar, and 3 or 4 eggs. Put one-fourth part of the flour on the slab, spread it out to form a well, then place the yeast in the centre and proceed to dissolve it with a little tepid water; then add sufficient water to mix the whole into a rather soft paste; knead this into the form of a round ball, score it round the sides with a knife, and leave to rise in a rather warm place. This is termed setting the sponge. Put the rest of the flour on the slab and make a well in the centre; then place the salt, sugar, and a teaspoonful of water to dissolve these, after which the butter (melted) must be added; add the eggs, and work the whole together with the hands until well mixed, first working it between the hands, and then rubbing it with both fists held flat 011 the slab, and moving them to and fro, so as to thoroughly beat out any lumps in the paste. By the time the paste is mixed, the sponge will probably have risen sufficiently—that is, to about three times its original size; when spread out on the paste, it should look like a sponge, from which it takes its name. Mix both together and knead well. It is usual to make this kind of paste late in the evening previous to the day on which it is required. If the paste, when finished, appears to be full of small air-bubbles, and is perfectly elastic to the touch, it is certain to be well made, and, when baked, will be both light and of a bright clear colour. If the paste is intended to be made into one brioche only, take five-sixths of it, mould this into the form of a round ball or cushion, and place in a plain greased mould or paper case with the smooth surface uppermost; press it down in the case with the knuckles, and, after moulding the remaining piece of paste in a similar manner, first wet the surface of the other part over, and then, after inserting the pointed end of a paste-brush into the centre of that portion of the brioche which has been already placed in the case, press the top down upon it; egg the brioche over, score the sides slightly in a slanting direction, place on a baking-sheet and bake in a moderate oven. As soon as the brioche begins to rise, and has browned a little, cover over with a sheet of paper. Note.—Brioches may be varied in shape when intended to be398 THE MODERN COOK served as fancy bread, for breakfast, etc., in which case they should be moulded into twists, fingers, rings, etc. When served at routs, public breakfasts, balls, etc., dried cherries, citron, candied orange or lemon peel, pine-apple or angelica, steeped in some kind of liqueur, may be introduced; in either of these cases, before adding the fruit, part of the paste must be reserved, rolled out, and used to enclose the other part of the brioche. This is necessary to prevent the fruit from protruding through the paste, as then it becomes scorched by the heat of the oven and has an unsightly appearance. When fruit has been mixed in a brioche, it should be glazed with fine sugar by the salamander after baking. Gruyere and Parmesan cheese, in equal proportions, are sometimes introduced in a brioche for a second-course remove; the first should be cut up in dice, the latter grated. As with the fruit, this kind of brioche must also be enclosed in a portion of the paste reserved for that purpose. Baba or Polish Cake Ingredients : f lb. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 oz. sugar, 1 oz. muscatel raisins, 1 oz. currants, £ oz. candied citron, x wine-glass rum, a pinch salt, 5 eggs, and £ oz. German yeast. First set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour, and the yeast, in the same way as directed for preparing brioche. Then spread out the remainder of the flour so as to form a well in the centre: place in this the butter (melted) and salt, previously dis- solved with a drop or two of water, sugar, and eggs: mix the whole thoroughly, working the paste with the hands on the slab. Then gather the paste together and take up portions of it with the hands, and jerk or throw these down again on the other part of the paste ; continue working it in' this fashion for five minutes, then if the sponge is sufficiently risen, spread it out over the paste and mix both together lightly. Grease a large mould, and line not more than half through with a thin coating of the paste, and as soon as this has been done all the fruit and the rum must be added, the whole of which must be instantly well mixed and added to the mould. The baba should next be left, to rise gradually, in a warm place; and as soon as it has risen sufficiently to nearly fill the mould, the baba should be placed in a moderate oven on a thick baking-sheet, with a thick roll of paper round the bottom of the mould to protect it from heat. Bake for about an hour until light brown. To serve this, soak the cake in rum-flavoured syrup. (Baba is a hot or cold sweet.) Compiegne Cake Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 6 oz. butter, x gill cream, 3 oz. castor sugar, 1 wine-glass maraschino, i oz. German yeast, 5 eggs, and a pinch salt. Set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast in the usual way (see “Brioche,” p. 397), and while it is rising, prepare the paste as follows :—CAKES IN GENERAL 399 Place the remainder of the flour on the slab and make a well in the centre, place in this the salt and sugar (with a very little water to dissolve the salt), the butter (melted), and eggs, and proceed to mix these thoroughly in the same way as brioche; add the sponge, and then mix in the maraschino and the whipped cream. Put the paste into a greased mould, and leave in a warm place to rise; as soon as it has nearly reached the top of the mould, fasten a band of paper round the edge, and bake a light brown in a moderate oven. It is customary to eat Compiegne cake hot, and it is served in various ways. When turned out of the mould, a small piece should be taken out of the centre of the top, and a glass or two of maraschino poured in through the opening; or the cake may be cut up in hori- zontal slices half an inch thick, and spread with apricot marmalade. Dried cherries and angelica may also be added to the cake before baking. German Kouglaiiff Ingredients: i lb. flour, io oz. butter, 5 eggs, 1 oz. German yeast, 2 oz. sugar, \ oz. cinnamon powder, a little grated lemon-peel, 1 small teaspoonful salt, 1 gill cream, and 3 oz. sweet almonds. Beat the butter with a clean wooden spoon for about ten minutes, by which time it should look like thick cream ; the cinnamon, lemon, and sugar, about one-fourth part of the flour, and two eggs should then be added, and the whole quickly worked together for a few minutes; then add the remainder of the flour and eggs gradually, still continuing to stir the mixture with the wooden spoon. When the whole has been incorporated, make a well in the centre, and add the yeast (previously dissolved with the salt in the cream made tepid for the purpose); work the whole thoroughly, then pour this batter into a greased mould, blanch and split the almonds, and place them round the inside of the mould in close order. Bake the kouglaiiff in a moderate oven. Its colour should be a bright reddish golden. In Germany it is customary to shake some cinnamon sugar all over this kind of cake as soon as it is turned out of the mould, before sending to table. Parisian Cake Ingredients: i lb. flour, 10 oz. butter, 3 oz. sugar, 5 eggs, \ pt. cream, 4 oz. sweet almonds and 1 oz. bitter almonds, 2 oz. pistachio kernels, 2 oz. candied orange-peel, a little salt, and 1 oz. yeast. Blanch the pistachio kernels, remove the skins, split each kernel into four strips and put on one side in a basin. Chop the candied orange-peel into thin strips, and put with the pistachios. Blanch and peel the almonds, wash and pound them into a soft paste (adding a few drops of rose-water to prevent their becoming oily), then mix them with the cream, rub through a tammy, as for a puree, and keep in a cool place until wanted. For mixing this cake, follow the directions for German kouglaiiff (see above), adding the pistachios and orange-peel after filling theTHE MODERN COOK 400 mould with the cake mixture; the yeast must be dissolved in a little tepid water, and the almonds and cream added cold. It should be baked nearly the same colour as a Savoy cake (see p. 401). Victoria Cake Ingredients : J lb. flour, 5 oz. butter, 3 eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, 2 oz. ground sweet almonds, J oz. bitter almonds, 2 oz. dried cherries, 1 oz. green citron cut up, 1 teaspoonful cinnamon powder, 1 tablespoonful whipped cream, \ oz. German yeast, 1 wine-glass brandy, and salt. Mix the above ingredients according to the directions given for German kouglauff; the yeast must be dissolved in a spoonful of tepid water, and the cream added last. When the cake is mixed, it should be placed in a tin hoop, with a double sheet of greased paper, on a baking-sheet, and the hoop, also lined with paper, placed upon it, ready to receive the mixture. As soon as the mixture has risen to the top of the hoop, bake a light brown in a moderate oven. This kind of cake may be served with some apricot marmalade diluted with a little lemon juice and warmed, sent to table separately in a sauce-boat; or, if preferred, instead of the apricot, some German egg sauce, made in the following manner:— Put two eggs in a middle-sized bain-marie, and add one ounce of castor sugar, a wine-glass of sherry, and the grated rind of an orange or lemon. Place the bain-marie containing these ingredients in a larger stew-pan with enough water to reach about one inch up the outside of the bain-marie; set this on a slow fire, and commence whisking or milling the contents briskly until it looks like a rich frothy custard. Be careful not to let the mixture get too hot, as that would harden the yolks of eggs and spoil the custard. Savarin Cake Ingredients : ^ lb. flour, 1 oz. sugar, 4 oz. fresh butter, 4 eggs, salt, £ oz. German yeast, and ii oz. blanched and chopped almonds. First set the sponge with one-fourth part of the flour, and the yeast, in the same manner as directed for making brioche. Then while the sponge is rising, place the remainder of the flour in a basin, make a well in the centre, and add the warmed butter, sugar, salt, and two eggs at a time. Mix the whole well together and fill a greased mould as follows :—Sprinkle the chopped almonds equally over and about the inside surface; next work the paste up again for a minute or two, and put a sufficient quantity into the mould to rather more than half fill it. Now place the Savarin in a warm place to rise until it lias nearly filled the mould; fasten a broad band of thick paper round the upper part of the mould so as to prevent the batter from running over the sides while it is baking. Put it into a moderate oven, and bake for about an hour. When done, turn the Savarin out of the mould, and after first running a knife into several parts of the surface, pour over and into the Savarin aCAKES IN GENERAL 401 rather thick orange syrup, containing a glassful of curagao, and send hot to table. To vary its appearance, this kind of cake is sometimes, after being first well soaked with a warm rich syrup, rolled all over in orange or lemon sugar. Savoy Cake Ingredients : ^ lb. finely sifted castor sugar, 7 eggs, 4 oz. fine flour, and 4 oz. potato flour. First separate the yolks from the whites of the eggs, taking care not to drop the least portion of the yolks into the whites, as any mixture of the two makes it impossible to whisk the whites firm. Add the sugar to the yolks, throw in as much salt as will stand on a sixpence, and either some vanilla, lemon, or orange sugar, or else a few drops of any kind of essence, such as orange, lemon, orange- flowers, vanilla, or bitter almonds. Work these together with a wooden spoon until the mixture looks like a thick creamy batter. The whites must now be whisked very stiffly; while this is going on, let both the wheaten and potato flour be well mixed in with the batter. As soon as the whites are satisfactorily whisked,1 mix them also very gradually in with the batter. Pour the batter thus pre- pared into a well-greased mould, dredged evenly all over with castor sugar. Tie a broad band of paper (folded in three) round the Savoy mould, and put a few wood-ashes on the baking-sheet under the cake. Bake in a moderate oven for about thirty-five minutes. The best way to ascertain whether the cake is done is to run a steel skewer down the centre, and if the skewer comes out clean, it will be safe to turn the cake out of the mould. Fingers or Naples Biscuits Prepare a batter as directed in the previous recipe; then fill a forcing-bag with some of it, and after securely folding down the open end, proceed to use the batter in the following manner:—Cut a sheet of greased foolscap paper in two, fold these lengthwise, in order to mark a straight line along the centre of the half-sheets, and place over a baking-sheet; the forcer must then be held in the right hand, pressing the batter out by working the thumb upon it, while the pointed end, which must be a plain pipe, must be guided with the left hand. In this manner the biscuits must be spread, or rather dropped, in straight lines, resembling fingers, about three inches long by half an inch wide, in two rows, divided by the line in the centre of the paper. When the sheet is full, sprinkle the biscuits with finely sifted castor sugar, and put in a moderate oven for about a quarter of an hour until a light golden colour. 1 The whites must be whisked slowly at first, increasing the motion of the hand gradually until it reaches the greatest possible speed : the motion of the whisk must be kept up at this rate, until the whites are sufficiently firm, when they must be instantly mixed in with the batter—otherwise they are liable to dissolve and so lose their consistency. 2 DTHE MODERN COOK 402 Plum Cake Ingredients : 6 oz. flour, 6 oz. butter, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. dried cherries (slightly chopped), 6 oz. cleaned currants, 6 oz. chopped candied orange, lemon, and citron peel, in equal quantities; 2 oz. ground almonds, 2 eggs, the rind of an orange (rubbed on a piece of sugar and afterwards scraped off), | teaspoonful ground spices, consisting of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, mixed in equal proportions, 1 tablespoonful Cognac brandy, and \ teaspoonful salt. Beat the butter with a wooden spoon until it becomes creamy; add gradually the flour, sugar, and eggs, still continuing to beat the mixture the whole of the time. When these have been thoroughly mixed, the cherries, currants, candied peel, ground almonds, brandy, spices, and salt must also be added gradually, and as soon as these ingredients are incorporated with the batter, pour the whole into a tin hoop (previously lined with double bands of buttered paper), and place on a baking-sheet, with two sheets of buttered paper under the cake, to prevent scorching. Moderate heat will be sufficient to bake this cake. When baked, ice over as follows:— First mix four ounces of ground almonds with an equal quantity of fine sifted sugar, a little orange-water, and two yolks of eggs. Form the whole into a soft paste; spread a coating of this all over the surface of the cake (after it has become cold); and when it is hardened by drying, ice over again with the following:— Place three whites of eggs in a basin, add about one pound of icing sugar, free from lumps, and work these well together, with a new wooden spoon, adding occasionally a little lemon juice, until the whole is smooth and shiny. Use this icing to mask the entire surface of the cake with a coating about a quarter of an inch thick; let it become firmly set, by drying in a cool place, and when the icing has become perfectly hard, decorate the top and sides of the cake with piping, using up the remainder of the icing thickened with the addition of a little more sugar. When intended for a wedding-cake, the ornaments must be all white, and some blossoms and sprigs—or even wreaths of orange- flowers—should also be introduced. » Scotch Bread Ingredients : £ lb. flour, 6 oz. castor sugar, i lb. butter, 3 eggs, 2 oz. candied lemon, orange, and citron peel in equal pro- portions, 1 tablespoonful Cognac brandy, a very little salt, and oz. white comfits. Put the butter in a basin, work it with a wooden spoon until it becomes like thick cream; then add the flour, sugar, eggs, and salt gradually. When the whole is thoroughly mixed, the candied peel (chopped finely), brandy, and grated rind of an orange or lemon must next be added. Pour the mixture into little greased oblong tins. Sprinkle over the tops with the comfits and a little sugar; then bake a light-fawn colour in a very moderate oven.CAKES IN GENERAL 4°3 Plain Seed Cake Ingredients : ij lb. dough, 2 eggs, 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, 1 oz. carraway seeds, and 1 teaspoonful salt. Spread the dough out on a pastry slab. Add the whole of the above-named ingredients, and work them well together with the hands so as thoroughly to incorporate them with the dough. When the paste is ready, put it into a plain greased mould and leave to rise in a warm place. As soon as the cake has risen sufficiently, bake in the oven till light brown. When done, serve cold for luncheon or otherwise. This kind of cake may be varied by introducing raisins, currants, or candied orange or lemon peel. German Rusks or Zwieback Ingredients: i lb. flour, 2 oz. butter, ^ oz. German yeast, 2 oz. sugar, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful salt, and h pt. milk. Mix the paste in the manner described for the preparation of the Compiegne cake, excepting that this must be beaten with the hand on the slab until it becomes elastic; the sponge should then be added, and after the whole has been well worked together, put the paste in long narrow tins which have been first well floured inside (to prevent the paste from sticking), and leave in a warm place to rise. When the mixture has sufficiently risen, it must be gently turned out on a greased baking-sheet, brushed over with egg, and baked a golden colour. When done, cut them up in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, place them flat on a baking-sheet, and replace again in the oven to brown on both sides. Note.—Rusks may also be made with brioche paste, pound cake, or Savoy cake; in the latter case a few carraway seeds are sometimes added. Pound Cake Ingredients : 1 lb. flour, 1 lb. butter, 1 lb. sugar, 6 eggs, 1 wine-glass brandy, a little salt, and rind of 2 oranges or lemons rubbed on sugar. Put the butter in a basin and beat it to a cream ; add the flour, sugar, and eggs gradually; when the whole is thoroughly mixed, add the brandy, grated rind, and salt; mix well together, and bake the cake in any kind of mould (previously spread with butter), or in a tin hoop lined with buttered paper. Plums, currants, almonds, pistachio kernels, candied peel, or dried cherries may be also added to this kind of cake. Flemish Gaufres Ingredients : 8 oz. flour, 3 oz. butter, 3 eggs, i oz. yeast, 1 gill milk, 1 gill cream (whipped), £ teaspoonful vanilla essence, and a little salt. Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, then add the milk (warmed) with the yeast dissolved in it; mix these gradually and thoroughly; then take the spoon out, scrape the sides of the404 THE MODERN COOK basin with a knife, cover it with paper, and leave the batter to rise in a warm place. When the sponge has risen twice its size, the butter should first be melted, and then added with the salt and one yolk of egg; mix these well in with the sponge, then add the whipped cream and the remaining yolks, and lastly, after having whipped the whites stiffly, mix them lightly in with the batter, and again leave to rise in a warm place. While the batter is being prepared, heat the gaufre-irons or wafer-tongs and butter the inside surfaces. Fill one side of the irons with some of the batter; dose the irons, and turn them upside down (that the batter may run into the opposite side), and put them over the fire, and when a golden colour on one side, turn the irons over that the gaufres may be baked evenly on the other side. They must then be turned out of the irons, the edges trimmed with a pair of scissors, and the wafers kept warm on a baking-sheet covered with paper. Repeat this process until the whole of the batter is used up; then shake some orange, lemon, or vanilla sugar over them, pile up neatly on fancy paper, and serve. French Gaufres Ingredients : 8 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 gill whipped cream, 3 eggs, a little salt, 1 glass curagao, and a few drops vanilla essence. Put the flour, sugar, and salt in a basin, then add the yolks of eggs, the vanilla essence, and the curacao, and mix these well together, gradually adding the whipped cream; just before using the batter, add the whipped whites of eggs, and fold them in lightly so as to thoroughly incorporate them with the mixture. Bake these gaufres in the same way as before, taking care that the iron is very carefully heated and the superfluous heat allowed to evaporate before filling them with the batter, as the sugar in their composition makes them liable to burn. When done, shake some vanilla sugar over them, and send to table. These gaufres may also be spread with some kind of preserve; such as apricot, currant jelly, etc. Almond Gaufres Ingredients : 6 oz. sweet almonds (either chopped finely or else cut into very fine shreds), 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 good table- spoonful flour, 2 whole eggs, and a very little salt; flavour with orange-flower water, or flowers (candied). Mix the almonds, sugar, flour, and flavouring together in a basin. Heat a baking-sheet in the oven, rub it all over equally with a piece of white wax, and when this has cooled, spread the gaufres very thinly over it; put them in a slow oven, and when about half-baked withdraw them, and with a circular cutter about two inches in diameter stamp out as many gaufres as the sheet will hold, and put them back again in the oven to brown lightly; they should then be instantly taken out and wrapped quickly round a well- greased cornet or cornucopia tin, and baked a few seconds longer.CAKES IN GENERAL 4°5 These gaufres may also be cut into pieces two inches square, and coiled round a small roller in the form of barrels; the ends of these, after being first covered with whipped white of egg mixed with a little sugar, should then be dipped in some finely chopped pistachios, and placed on a baking-sheet to dry. When served cold, they may be filled with whipped cream seasoned with vanilla, orange flowers, or maraschino, and some strawberries placed on the top of this; they are sometimes also garnished with vanilla-cream ice. Note.—This kind of gaufres may be varied in appearance by sprinkling over some currants or finely chopped pistachios before they are baked in the oven. Nougats Ingredients: 12 oz. sweet almonds, lb. sifted sugar. Blanch the almonds, remove the skins, and after they have been washed and dried, split each almond into halves; then put them on a baking-sheet in a slow oven to brown very lightly. Meanwhile put the sugar in a boiling-pan with a very little water, and stir over a slow fire to melt it: as soon as it is entirely dissolved, and begins to form small purling bubbles on the surface, the almonds (which by this time should be ready and quite hot) must be added, and very gently mixed with the sugar, care being taken not to break or bruise them. The mould intended to be used must then be first carefully oiled inside with a paste-brush, and set to drain on a plate. Some of the nougat should now be dropped on a. slightly, oiled slab, and rolled out with an oiled rolling-pin to the thickness of about the eighth of an inch; as the pieces are thus rolled, they must be immediately placed in the mould and pressed into its form with the fingers as quickly as possible before the nougat has time to cool and harden. When the nougat has become set, turn it out of the mould, fill with some suitable garnish if necessary, and serve. The above proportions, as well as the directions for splitting the almonds, refer only to large nougats; when it is intended to make a smaller one, the almonds should be shred. In all cases, the pro- portion of almonds and sugar should be as two of the latter to one of the former. If liked, as soon as the nougat is turned out of the mould, some chopped pistachio kernels and rough granite sugar1 may be sprinkled over the surface. Parisian Nougats Ingredients : 4 oz. pistachio kernels, 8 oz. sugar, and a few drops vanilla essence. Blanch the pistachios, peel and wipe dry, then split each kernel into halves and put them to dry on a baking-sheet. Pound the 1 Granite sugar is generally prepared by breaking up loaf sugar into very small pieces with the end of a rolling-pin ; after sifting away all the fine sugar, the pieces are then passed through a colander with large holes. All that passes through this may be used for the above purpose; but when the granite is required finer, it must be riddled through a wire-sieve.THE MODERN COOK 406 vanilla essence with one ounce of sugar, sift it, and then put this and the eight ounces of castor sugar into a small sugar-boiler, together with a teaspoonful of prepared extract of cochineal or carmine: stir over the fire until the sugar is entirely melted, and as soon as it begins to purl on the surface, immediately add the pistachios, and gently mix the whole together, taking care not to break the pistachios. The nougat must now be spread out in the form of a square on an oiled baking-sheet or slab; some roughly- broken granite sugar should be sprinkled over the surface, and before it becomes cold, the square must be divided into two bands, and each of these cut into about a dozen small oblong nougats. When about to send to table pile them up in close circular rows, and serve. Small Nougats a la Chantilly Ingredients: 6 oz. ripe filberts and 12 oz. castor sugar. Blanch the nuts, remove the skin, then split each kernel in four lengthwise, and put them to dry on a baking-sheet in the oven; meanwhile stir the sugar in the boiler over the fire in the usual manner, and as soon as it is ready, mix in the nuts; have half a dozen small dariole moulds ready, oiled inside, put some of the nougat into each of the moulds, and use a small stick, or the handle of a wooden spoon, to work the nougat up the sides, or into the flutes of the moulds; pare away all that may rise above the edge of the moulds, and then turn them out on to a baking-sheet. When about to send these nougats to table, each should be filled with some whipped cream flavoured with vanilla or maraschino, and a few strawberries (when in season) placed on the top; dish up neatly in a pyramidal form. Genoese Cakes Ingredients : 6 oz. flour, 6 oz. sugar, 6 oz. butter, 6 eggs, 1 tablespoonful brandy, and a little salt. Mix the flour, sugar, eggs, brandy, and salt well together in a basin; add the butter (melted), and when this is thoroughly incor- porated with the batter, pour it into a well-buttered baking-sheet or flat cake tin, to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch, and bake in a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. When the Genoese paste is done, it should be turned out upon a sheet of paper, and cut or stamped out, either in circular, oblong, oval, angular, leaf-like, or any other fancy shapes. These may then be decorated with white of egg and sugar prepared as for meringues (see p. 410) or with icing prepared as directed for plum or wedding cake (see p. 402), and ornamented with pistachio kernels, currants, etc. Those cut in the form of leaves, rings, oblongs, etc., may be ornamented by forming a design composed of leaves and pearls (using for that purpose some meringue paste in a paper cornet, or small forcing-pipe); when the Genoese cakes are ornamented in this manner, dredge some fine sugar over them, and dry in a cool oven ; then finish decorating them by placing some neat stripes or dots of any kind of preserve, such as red-currant jelly, apple jelly, apricot jam,407 CAKES IN GENERAL greengage jam, etc., between the leaves or pearls of the white of egg decoration. By these means a very pretty effect is produced, and one that is perfectly wholesome. Genoise Cake J lb. butter, £ lb. castor sugar, the finely chopped thin rind of \ lemon, 5 small eggs, \ lb. sifted flour, £ teaspoonful vanilla essence. Put the butter in a warm basin and work it with a wooden spoon till creamy, then add the lemon rind and sugar, and beat these together until quite white; it will take about fifteen minutes. Stir in, one by one, the yolks of the eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and mix these with the flour into the above. Lastly, add the vanilla essence. Put the mixture into a flat, well-buttered cake- tin or saute-pan and bake in a moderate oven for thirty minutes. Note.—Another method is that of creaming the sugar and eggs over boiling water, and adding the other ingredients at the last. Genoese Cakes with Almonds Prepare and bake a mixture the same as the previous recipe; when the cakes are nearly done, mask the surface with the white of an egg beaten up with an ounce of sifted sugar; then sprinkle chopped almonds, mixed with castor sugar, and a few drops of orange-flower water, all over the coating of egg; dredge a little sugar on the top of this, and put the Genoese cakes back again in the oven, to finish baking. When done, the coating of almonds should be of a light-fawn colour: they must then be carefully removed from the baking-sheet, cut or stamped out in shapes according to fancy, and dished up in a pyramidal form. Madeleines These are made with the same kind of batter as Genoese cakes, to which currants, dried cherries, candied peel, or angelica may be added. When the batter is ready, pour into a sufficient number of greased fluted or plain dariole or madeleine moulds; these must be placed on a baking-sheet spread with ashes, and then baked in a moderate oven. When done, turn them out of the moulds, and dish up in a pyramidal form. These cakes may also be partially emptied by removing a part of the top and scooping out the crumb, then filled up with some kind of preserve, and the top part replaced. Spanish Cakes, Petits = Choux Ingredients : 1 gill milk or water, x oz. butter, 1 oz. sugar, 2 oz. flour, 2 eggs, a few drops essence of orange, a very little salt, and 1 oz. chopped almonds. Put the water, butter, sugar, and the salt into a stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to boil, withdraw the stew-pan from the fire and add the flour, which must be finely sifted; stir the whole well together over the fire for about three minutes until quite smooth.THE MODERN COOK 408 The essence of orange (or any other kind of flavour) should now be added, also the eggs one at a time. This paste should now be put into a forcing-bag with a plain pipe and forced out on a greased baking-sheet in small round balls, the size of a pigeon’s egg, egged over with a paste-brush, some chopped almonds strewn upon them, with some sifted sugar shaken over, and then baked a very light colour. These cakes may be served plain, or garnished inside with cream or some kind of preserve. Duchess Loaves These are made of the same kind of paste as the Petits-Choux; this must be put out on the pastry slab in small pieces about the size of a pigeon’s egg, then rolled out with a little flour in the form of a finger and placed in rows upon a greased baking-sheet, then egged over and baked a light colour. Just before they are quite done, shake some finely sifted sugar over them, put them back again in the oven until the sugar is nearly melted, and then pass a red-hot salamander over them to give them a bright glossy appearance; the loaves must then be immediately withdrawn from the oven, and allowed to cool. Just before sending to table, make an incision down the sides, and fill the interior with apricot jam; then dish up in a pyramidal form. Petits=Choux with Caramel Prepare these as above, except that they must be rolled and baked in the form of round balls, which, when done, should be about the size of an egg. Then mix together about two ounces of chopped pistachios, a few cleaned currants, and an equal proportion of castor sugar on a plate; boil about four ounces of sugar in a very little water to form a syrup. Dip each petit-choux slightly in this, then gently roll in the prepared pistachios, etc., so as to mask the surface. Let them cool before dishing up. Profitrolles Prepare a dozen petits-choux as in the first part of the previous recipe; when they are baked and have become cold, cut a circular piece from the top of each, about the size of a shilling • then fill them with some custard, prepared as follows :—Put the yolks of four eggs into a small stew-pan with two ounces of castor sugar, two ounces of grated chocolate, and a very little salt; mix these well together with half a pint of cream or milk, add a small pat of butter, then stir the whole over the fire and allow it to cook very gently for about ten minutes; this custard should now be passed through a tammy or fine strainer into a basin, and when it has become cold, three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream should be added; fill the petits-choux, and serve. This custard may also be flavoured with lemon, orange, vanilla, orange flower, or any kind of liqueur; in which case the chocolate must be omitted.409 CAKES IN GENERAL Mecca Loaves The paste for these is prepared as above, with the addition of two or three tablespoonfuls of whipped cream, which must only be incorporated just before the loaves are laid out on the baking-sheet in the following manner:— Force the mixture through a bag with a plain pipe, and drop it on a greased baking-sheet in the form of a gherkin, pointed at the ends and elevated at the centre: fill the baking-sheet with these, placing them about two inches distant from each other; egg them over, shake some finely pounded loaf sugar over them, then shake some sifted sugar upon that, and put them in a moderate oven to bake a golden colour. When the Mecca loaves are done, let them get cold, and fill the centre with some whipped cream flavoured with a little sugar and a small glass of liqueur, and serve. Queen’s Cakes Prepare a quarter of a pound of nouille paste (see p. 392), roll out as thin as paper, cut into bands, and shred these extremely fine; after the nouilles have been allowed to dry for a short time, put them into a stew-pan, with half a pint of cream, one pat of butter, two ounces of sugar, and a tablespoonful of brandy; leave to boil very gently over a slow fire (covered with the lid), and when the cream has been absorbed by the nouilles, withdraw them, add the yolks of two or three eggs, and stir the whole well together;' then place this preparation upon two greased baking-sheets, in layers about the eighth part of an inch thick, and bake a deep golden colour. When done, spread one of them with apricot jam, cover this over with the other, and then stamp the cakes out with a circular cutter in the form of half-moons; dish up in double circular rows so as to form a cone, and serve. These cakes may also be garnished with any other kind of preserve, or even with pastry custard (see p. 419), and cut out either in oblong, circular, oval, leaf-like, or diamond shapes. In order to vary their appearance, the surface should be first lightly spread with a little meringue paste (see p. 410), and then sprinkled with chopped or shred pistachios, granite sugar, or small pink or white comfits. Almond Cakes Ingredients : 5 oz. flour, 8 oz. sugar, 2 oz. ground almonds (with a few bitter almonds), 4 eggs, 4 whites whipped, 1 glass brandy, a little salt, 4 oz. chopped almonds mixed with 2 oz. sugar, and half the white of an egg. First work the butter to a cream in a basin with a spoon, add the flour, sugar, almonds, brandy, eggs, and salt gradually, then mix in the whipped whites of eggs lightly; pour this paste on a greased baking-sheet, and bake a light-fawn colour. When the cake is nearly done, spread the prepared chopped almonds over the top and then put back again into the oven to finish baking; whenTHE MODERN COOK 4io done, the almonds should be of a light-fawn colour. Turn the cake out carefully, and when cold cut up into bands about an inch and a half wide, then again divide these into diamond-shaped cakes, and dish them up pyramidally. Dried cherries, sultanas, raisins, currants, any kind of candied peel, pistachios, or nuts may be added. The cakes may also be flavoured with any kind of essence or liqueur. Meringues Ingredients : \ lb. sifted castor sugar and 6 whites of egg. Whisk the whites in an egg-bowl until they present the appear- ance of a perfectly white, smooth, substantial froth; then mix in the whole of the sugar very lightly; carefully avoid working the mixture too much, for fear of rendering it soft, as in that case it becomes difficult to mould the meringues; they can never be so gracefully shaped as when the mixture is kept firm. Next cut some stiff foolscap paper into bands about two inches wide; then take a tablespoon, and gather it nearly full of the batter by working it up at the side of the bowl in the form of an egg, and drop this in a slanting direction upon one of the bands of paper, at the same time drawing the edge of the spoon sharply round the outer base of the meringue so as to give to it a smooth and rounded appearance, in order that it may exactly resemble an egg. Proceed in this manner until the band is full, keeping the meringues about an inch apart from each other on the paper; as each band is filled, place them close beside each other on the slab or table, and when all the batter is used up, dredge the meringues over with some sifted sugar, place each band of meringues on a baking-board,1 and put in a very moderate, almost cool oven for about two hours. When done, each meringue must be carefully removed from the paper, the white part of the inside scooped out with a dessertspoon, and then nicely smoothed over; after this, they must be placed again on a baking- sheet, and left to dry in a warm place overnight. When about to send the meringues to table, whip some double cream, season it with a little castor sugar, and either a glass of any kind of liqueur, a few drops of orange-flower water, or some vanilla essence; garnish each meringue with a spoonful of this cream, join two together, dish up in a pyramidal form, and serve. Note.—Meringues may be made of all sizes, and may also be shaped in the form of small bunches of grapes: for this purpose it is necessary to use a forcing bag and pipe to mould the berries. In order to vary the appearance, before shaking the sugar over them some finely shred pistachios or almonds, rough granite sugar, or small currants may be strewn over them. They may also be garnished with preserve, or any kind of ice-cream. 1 These boards must be made of seasoned wood, and should be about an inch thick; their size must of course depend upon the dimensions of the oven, allowing sufficient room for them to be turned round in it.CAKES IN GENERAL 411 Italian Biscuits Ingredients : 3 eggs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. flour, some orange or lemon sugar for flavouring, a pinch salt, and 4 oz. chopped almonds. First divide the yolks from the whites of the eggs, placing the whites in an egg-bowl and the yolks in a basin; add the sugar, the flavouring, and the salt to the yolks, and work these together with a wooden spoon until it becomes a rather stiff creamy batter. Then add half the flour, and when this has been well mixed in, fold in the whites previously whipped stiffly, and add the remainder of the flour, taking care to keep the batter as firm and light as possible. Then fill a forcing-bag with some of the batter, and force it out on to baking-sheets (which must be buttered and floured) in round or oval shapes; and when the whole of the batter is used up in this manner, sprinkle the chopped almonds equally over the biscuits; dredge over with sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. These cakes are most appropriate for dessert; but, when made the size of a five-shilling piece, spread with any kind of fruit or jam on the under part, and two of them stuck together, they may be served as a second-course dish, with some whipped cream in the centre. Venetian Biscuits Prepare some Genoese mixture as on p. 406 ; when split into convenient-sized pieces, spread the insides with apricot jam and press together again. Then spread a thin coating of white icing on one square of Genoese, and a similar coating of pink icing on the other square; cut again into small oblong shapes of equal sizes; and when the icing has become dry, dish up, either for an entremet dish or for dessert. Swedes Ingredients : ^ lb. castor sugar, 6 oz. ground almonds, 6 oz. flour, 1 stick vanilla (pounded and sifted) or a few drops vanilla essence, 1 whole egg and the white of another. Mix all the ingredients together in a basin, and then with a table- spoon mould the preparation into round balls the size of a large walnut. Place on pieces of rice-paper, cut to the size of half-crown pieces; put these on baking-sheets, and after dredging over some fine sugar, bake in a moderate oven. These cakes may also be finished as follows :—Spread the mixture about half an inch thick upon rice-paper, and immediately on its being taken from the oven, cut it into leaf-like shapes, and bend these over a rolling-pin till the pieces become cold and crisp. These cakes may be served either for dessert or an entremet dish; in the latter case, some whipped cream must be placed in the centre of the dish. Brown =■ Bread Biscuits Ingredients : £ lb. castor sugar, 6 oz. brown flour, 4 oz. sweet almonds ground up in their skins, 6 drops essence of bitter almonds, and 5 eggs.THE MODERN COOK 412 Break the eggs, placing the yolks in a basin, and the whites in an egg-bowl; add the sugar, flour, almonds, and flavouring to the yolks, and work these well together for twenty minutes with a wooden spoon; then mix in the stiffly beaten whites, and with this batter fill as many small oblong or square paper cases as may be required for the purpose. Dredge the surfaces with sugar, and bake in a very moderate oven. These biscuits are adapted for dessert only. Ginger Cakes Ingredients : f lb. flour, 8 oz. fresh butter, 8 oz. castor sugar, | oz. ground ginger, 6 yolks of eggs. Work the whole of the above ingredients together on a pastry board or slab; separate the dough into four parts, roll these out to the thickness of the sixth of an inch, one after the other, and with a cutter, either oval, round, etc., etc., cut out as many.cakes as the paste will yield and place them on a slightly buttered baking-sheet. Brush over the top with water, and dredge with castor sugar. Then bake lightly. Champagne Biscuits Ingredients : 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. fresh butter, 3 eggs, ^ oz. carraway seeds, a pinch salt. Beat the butter in a basin with a wooden spoon until it looks like thick cream; then add the sugar, flour, yolks of eggs, carraway seeds, and salt gradually; lastly fold in the whites of eggs whisked stiffly. Now procure a sheet of stout cartridge-paper, which must be folded in reversed pleats so that, when the paper is opened, it will resemble the pleats of a fan about an inch deep. Fill a forcing-bag with some of the batter, and force out some finger-like biscuits on to the paper pleats about three inches long; dredge these with sifted sugar, and bake a light colour in a very moderate oven. These cakes are fit for dessert only. Orange Biscuits These are made with the same kind of batter as described in the last recipe, omitting the carraway seeds, and substituting instead some orange sugar and one dessertspoonful of candied orange-peel cut into small shreds. Butter some small moulds, fill with the batter, sift sugar over them, and then bake a light colour in a moderate oven. Peach Biscuits Prepare a similar mixture as directed above, and force it out into small round biscuits on a baking-sheet previously buttered and floured. Shake some sugar over the biscuits, and bake them a light colour; when they are done, and removed from the baking- sheet, spread the under parts with some kind of preserved fruit (peach marmalade being most appropriate), and stick two biscuits together, forming as nearly as possible the shape and size of a peach. Mask over with some white icing, which, when dry, must be very4i3 CAKES IN GENERAL slightly brushed over with a soft pencil-brush dipped in a small quantity of carmine, thus giving to the cake a tinge of colour similar to a ripe peach. These cakes may be dished up with whipped cream in the centre of the dish. Apricot Biscuits These are prepared exactly like the last recipe, except that they should be smaller—so as to resemble apricots in size and form, apricot jam being used to stick them together with. Then dip in the following preparation :—To one pound of fine loaf-sugar placed in a sugar-boiler, add half a pint of cold water; boil these over a brisk fire until the sugar while boiling throws up pearl-like bubbles. Dip the fingers in water, and press some of the sugar with the thumb and forefinger; when it looks like glue remove from the fire, and ten minutes afterwards add whatever flavouring is intended to be used, in a liquid state, such as liqueurs, strong vanilla, orange or lemon syrups, or infusions: any one of the foregoing must be gradually mixed in with the boiled sugar, quickly stirring and working the sugar in the pan the while; and, when thoroughly mixed, the cakes should be dipped in, and placed on a wire-drainer to set. The yellow tinge required for the icing in this case may be given by using either some orange sugar or a small decoction of saffron ; but the latter is objectionable on account of its flavour. Chocolate Glaces The foundation for these may be made either of pound cake (p. 403) or Genoese (p. 406); the batter for making either of the above may be first baked, and afterwards cut out in shapes and sizes to suit taste or convenience; or otherwise may be baked in appropriate moulds or cases for the purpose; they must then be dipped in the following preparation First boil the sugar as directed in the last recipe, and when it has reached its proper degree of heat for icing, add three ounces of chocolate dissolved in a wine-glassful of water; work the whole well together, and use while hot; but if it should become cold, and set before the glazing is finished, the icing may be easily liquefied again by stirring it over the fire. Cakes both large and small may be iced or glazed in this manner in almost infinite variety, by using any kind of liqueur or a very strong infusion of tea or coffee instead of chocolate. Swiss Leckerlets Ingredients : 8 oz. honey, 4 oz. sweet almonds blanched and shred, 1 oz. cinnamon powder, ^ oz. ground cloves, i nutmeg grated, 3 oz. castor sugar, 1 teaspoonful bicarbonate of soda, 1 oz. candied orange, lemon, and citron, 1 tablespoonful Kirschwasser, 1 table- spoonful orange-flower water, 10 oz. flour. Put the honey in a copper egg-bowl on the fire, and when it is melted, skim off the froth and immediately add the shred almonds and the ground spices; mix these well together with a wooden spoon, and then add the sugar, the Kirschwasser, the orange-flowerTHE MODERN COOK 414 water, and the chopped candied peel; and, after having mixed in these, leave to stand for five or six hours; then add the carbonate of soda, dissolved in a tablespoonful of water, and the flour. This paste must now be gently stirred over the fire for three or four minutes longer, and then prepared as follows :— Cut the paste into four equal parts. Flour the slab, roll out each of the four pieces to about a quarter of an inch thick; these squares must now be placed on baking-sheets, previously buttered and floured; and, after being deeply marked out or cut into small oblong squares, must be rubbed over with a paste-brush dipped in water to remove the flour from the surface. Next bake the Leckerlets in a moderate oven until a light brown, and when about three parts done, cut the paste through into shape, brush over with some thin white icing, and replace in the oven to finish cooking. Break up the cakes as marked out, and put when cold away in a tin box in a dry place. These cakes are well adapted for dessert or luncheon. Sicilian Biscuits Ingredients : 3 eggs, 8 oz. castor sugar, 8 oz. flour, 1 stick vanilla pounded, or a few drops vanilla essence. Whisk the eggs, sugar, and vanilla together in a copper egg-bowl over a very slow fire until the batter begins to feel warm; remove from off the fire, and whisk briskly until the batter becomes cold; the flour must now be lightly added, and when thoroughly mixed, the mixture must be forced out upon prepared baking-sheets in fingers, ovals, or rounds, dredged with sugar similarly to finger or Naples biscuits, and baked in a slow oven. Russian Biscuits Ingredients : 6 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, 6 oz. flour, 2 oz. almonds pounded and dried over the fire, J oz. aniseed. Let the yokes of the eggs and the sugar be whisked together in an egg-bowl over a slow fire; fold in the whites whisked stiffly, also the flour, almonds, and aniseed. The mixture may then either be baked in long tin moulds or, failing these, in stout paper cases. When the biscuits are cold, cut them into rather thin slices, replace again on baking-sheets, and bake a light brown on both sides. Albert Biscuits Ingredients : 6 oz. castor sugar, 6 oz. finely chopped almonds, 6 oz. flour, 6 eggs, 2 oz. candied orange-peel shred fine, 1 tea- spoonful cinnamon powder, half that quantity ground cloves, and a little grated lemon rind. Work the sugar and the almonds with the yolks and two whites of eggs for twenty minutes, then incorporate the remaining whites firmly whisked together with the flour, candied peel, and spices. Pour the batter into a convenient-sized paper case, and bake in aTARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 4i5 moderate oven; and, when done and sufficiently cold, cut up into thin slices. This preparation may also be baked in small moulds, or forced out upon paper or baking-sheets buttered and floured for the purpose. Victoria Biscuits Ingredients : ^ lb. castor sugar, 8 oz. dried flour, 3 oz. pounded or ground bitter almonds, 6 oz. fresh butter, 1 wine-glassful Kirsch- wasser, and grated rind of 1 lemon. First let the butter be worked up in a basin with a wooden spoon until it becomes creamy; then add the remainder of the ingredients, finishing with the Kirschwasser; and when the batter is ready, pour it into small moulds ready buttered and floured over. When these cakes or biscuits are baked, spread the surface with orange marmalade, and then glaze them according to directions given for finishing Apricot biscuits (see p. 413). TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES French Banana Tart Roll out half a pound of rough puff or short crust paste, made with six ounces of flour, three ounces of butter, and the necessary water to mix into a fairly firm paste. Place a pastry hoop on a baking-sheet, butter both and line with the paste, ornament the edges, and fill the shape with uncooked rice, then bake for about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven. Take out the rice and fill the paste crusts with round slices of bananas arranged in neat layers. Besprinkle each layer of fruit with a little well- flavoured fruit syrup (currant and raspberry for preference), brush over the top with well-reduced syrup, and bake for another ten minutes. Serve hot or cold. Fanchonnettes Prepare half a pint of pastry custard as directed for the profit- rolles (see p. 408), season it either with an ounce of grated chocolate, an infusion of coffee, a glass of liqueur, or a few drops of some kind of essence, such as orange flower, vanilla, bitter almonds, or lemon ; fill a dozen plain-lined tartlets with the custard, bake a golden colour, and when done take them out of the moulds and leave to get cold. Meanwhile whip two whites of eggs to a stiff froth, mix in one and a half ounces of sugar, and use some of this to mask the fanchonnettes; then shake some sifted sugar over them, put them on a baking-sheet in the oven to lightly brown the meringue. Before dishing them up, ornament them by placing some neat strips of bright currant or apple jelly in between the folds of the decoration. These fanchonnettes may be varied, by altering the form and design according to taste, when masking them with the whipped whites of eggs. Strips of pistachios, almonds, or currants may also be used for this purpose.THE MODERN COOK 416 Cheesecakes Ingredients : 4 oz. pressed curd, ^ oz. ratafias, 6 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 4 yolks of eggs, some grated nutmeg, a little salt, grated rind of 2 oranges or lemons. Squeeze the curd in a napkin to absorb all the moisture, then pound it thoroughly in a mortar and mix in the above ingredients ; when the whole is incorporated together into a soft paste, put on one side in a basin. Next line a dozen or more tartlet tins with some puff paste, fill them with the mixture, and place a strip of candied peel on the top of each; put them on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven until a light-brown colour; when done, shake a little sifted sugar over, and serve quite hot. Currants, dried cherries, sultanas, or citron may be used instead of the candied peel. Mirlitons Ingredients : Puff paste, 1 or more eggs, 3 oz. sugar, 1 oz. tafias, J oz. candied orange flowers, 1 oz. butter, and a little salt. Put the above ingredients into a basin having a lip or spout: the ratafias and orange flowers must be bruised, and the butter melted ; work the mixture well together with a wooden spoon until it becomes creamy, then pour into a dozen small deep tartlet tins, lined with puff paste trimmings; shake sifted sugar over the mirlitons, and when it has nearly melted on the surface, put them in the oven and bake them a light-fawn colour. When the mirlitons are done, the centre of the tartlet should rise up to the height of about half an inch, resembling the crown of a boy’s cap. These cakes may also be flavoured with grated chocolate, or with ground pistachios or almonds, or with different essences. A spoonful of apricot or pine-apple jam may also be placed in the tartlets before adding the filling. Pithiviers Cake Ingredients : £ lb. puff paste, 4 oz. almonds or nuts, 4 oz. sugar, 4 oz. butter, 1 oz. ratafias, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, yolks of 2 eggs, and a very little salt. First pound the almonds with a little white of egg; then add the remainder of the ingredients, and pound the whole well together until it becomes a rather soft creamy paste; put this aside in a basin. Meanwhile prepare half a pound of puff paste, to which seven turns or foldings must be given. Take two-thirds of this, and knead, or rather fold it, by twisting over the corners, so as to form it into a cushion; knead the other piece in a similar manner, and then roll them both out in a circular or oval form to the size of a small dish or dessert-plate. Place the thinnest piece on a baking-sheet, wet round the edges with a paste-brush dipped in water, fill the whole of the centre with a layer of Pithiviers cream, and place the other piece of puff paste over the top of this; press it all round the edge by bearing on it with the thumb of the right hand ; then decorate theTARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 4i7 edges neatly. Shake some finely sifted sugar over the cake and bake it the lightest possible colour: indeed, it should be free from any colour, the characteristic appearance of this kind of pastry being its whiteness. Pithiviers cake should be eaten cold. These cakes may also be made in tartlet moulds, thinly lined with puff paste, and after being neatly filled with the Pithiviers cream wet the edges and cover the mould in with rounds of puff paste, stamped out with a cutter; fasten down by pressing the two pieces of paste together with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand, and finish and bake as directed in the previous recipe. D’Artois Cakes Puff paste or large d’Artois cakes are prepared as in the previous recipes, and may be garnished either with apple marmalade, mince- meat, or any kind of preserve; in this case, however, when the cake has been covered in with the puff paste, it must be egged over with a paste-brush ; when it has been baked a bright-yellow colour, shake some finely sifted sugar over, after which put it back again in the oven for a minute or two to brown on the top. The same process is also followed when making small d’Artois cakes. Note.—These cakes may also be made in four-inch-wide strips, and when baked cut into one-inch fingers. German Tourte of Apricots Cut half-a-dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and put them into a small sugar-boiler or stew-pan with the kernels extracted from the stones, two ounces of castor sugar, and half a gill of water; stir this over the fire until the fruit is dissolved into a jam. Roll out some trimmings of puff paste, or else four ounces of short paste, to the diameter of about eight inches, place this on a circular baking-sheet, and with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand twist the paste round the edges so as to raise it in imitation of cording; then cut up half-a-dozen ripe apricots into quarters, and place these in rows on the paste, shake some sifted sugar over the apricots, and bake the tourte in a moderate oven; when it is done, pour the marmalade over the whole apricots, shake some sifted sugar mixed with a teaspoonful of cinnamon powder over the surface, dish the tourte on a fancy paper, and serve it either hot or cold. This kind of tourte may be made of any kind of fruit, the process being the same in each case. Some cinnamon sugar, sprinkled over the surface, should always be added. Parisian Turnover of Apples Peel four to six apples, cut them in quarters, and take out the cores; after which, put them into a stew-pan with two ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, the rind of a lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, and two tablespoonfuls of water; toss the apples over a slow fire until they are half done, and then withdraw from the fire. While the apples are cooking, roll out four ounces of short crust, theTHE MODERN COOK 418 eighth part of an inch thick, and about the size of a dinner-plate; wet this round the edge, then fasten a rolled cord of paste, the thickness of a small finger, within an inch of the edge, and pile the prepared apples up in the centre in the form of a dome, spread some apricot marmalade over the surface, and cover the whole in with another round of puff paste; press both together round the edges, wet the extremities, then with the forefinger and thumb of the right hand twist or fold the edges over in the form of a cord. Brush over the turnover with a paste-brush dipped in beaten white of egg, then sprinkle some rough granite sugar over the egg, and bake a light-fawn colour. These turnovers may also be made with all kinds of plums, the only difference in the mode of preparation being that they need not undergo any cooking before being placed in the paste: but the stones should be removed; the plums, peaches, or apricots must be piled up in several rows forming a dome, with some castor sugar between each layer, and some of the same kind of fruit the turnover is made of should be boiled down to a jam, for the purpose of masking the fruit preparatory to its being covered in by the puff paste. Darioles Ingredients : i oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. ratafias, 1 gill cream, 1 whole egg and 2 yolks, 1 oz. candied orange flowers, a small pat butter, a very little salt, ^ lb. puff paste. Put the flour, sugar, crushed ratafias, and the eggs in a spouted basin, work the whole well together, and then add the cream, a very little salt, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water, and mix these in with the batter. Line a dozen dariole moulds with some trimmings of puff paste, place these on a baking-sheet, put a very small bit of butter at the bottom of each dariole, and then, after stirring the batter well together, pour it into the moulds; strew the candied orange flowers on the top of each, and bake them in a moderate oven. When done, the darioles should be slightly raised in the centre, and of a light-fawn colour; take them out of the moulds without breaking them, shake some finely sifted sugar over, and serve hot. Darioles may also be flavoured with vanilla, lemon, orange, coffee, or chocolate. Conde Cakes Chop three ounces of sweet almonds as finely as possible, mix them with four ounces of sifted sugar, some grated rind of lemon, and the white of an egg into a rather stiff paste. Next make four to six ounces of puff paste, to which give eight turns or foldings, and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; then with a cutter of an oval, circular, crescent, diamond, or any other fancy shape, stamp out about a dozen condes and put them on a baking-sheet previously wetted over with a paste-brush ; coat with the prepared chopped almonds, etc., dredge over some fine sugar, and bake a light-fawn colour.TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 419 Royals Mix the whites of two eggs with as much finely sifted sugar as they will absorb, so as to form a soft paste; a few drops of any kind of essence may be added to flavour the cakes. Make four ounces of puff paste, and finish these cakes exactly in the same way as the preceding recipe. D’Artois of Apricot Make half a pound of puff paste and give it seven turns or fold- ings; then take one-third, and after kneading this well together, roll out to the size of a square baking-sheet; next spread a rather thick layer of apricot jam over the paste to within about an inch of the edges; then roll out the remainder of the puff paste the same size, and place neatly over the surface of the apricot; fasten it round by pressing upon the edges with the thumb, and trim the edges with a knife. Mark out the d’Artois in small oblong shapes with the back part of a knife, and after the whole surface has been egged over, score neatly, forming a kind of feather pattern on each cake. Bake a light-brown colour, and when done, dredge over some finely sifted sugar; put them back again into the oven for a minute or two to melt the sugar and get brown on the top. 'When the d’Artois are cold, cut them up, and serve in circular rows piled on a fancy paper. Note.—This kind of pastry may also be garnished with Pithiviers cream, pastry custard, apple marmalade, or any other kind of preserve. Apricot Nougats Roll out some trimmings of puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; lay this over the surface of a baking-sheet, spread it with a rather thick layer of apricot jam, and then sprinkle over some shred pistachio kernels or almonds, dredge some finely sifted sugar over all, and bake in a moderately heated oven. When done, let the pastry cool, and then use any kind of fancy tin-cutter to stamp out into shapes. Pastry Custard or Cream Ingredients : 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. sugar, 3 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. butter, £ pt. cream or milk, 1 oz. ratafias, 1 tablespoonful orange- flower water, and a very little salt. Mix the flour, sugar, and salt, with the eggs, in a stew-pan; then add the cream and the butter, and stir the whole over the fire until it boils; it must then be well worked together until quite smooth. Withdraw the spoon, and after putting the lid on the stew-pan, place the mixture in the oven, or on a slow fire, to simmer very gently for about twenty minutes; the cream must then be poured into a basin, and the ratafias and the orange-flower water added; after which put one ounce of butter into a small stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as it begins to fritter and turn a light-brown colour (which gives to it the flavour of nuts), add this also to the cream, and mix well together. Use this cream to garnish various kinds of pastry, according to the directions given in the various recipes for which it is intended.420 THE MODERN COOK Talmouses Ingredients : J pt. milk, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. sugar, 2 oz. butter, 4 oz. cream-curd, rind of 1 orange rubbed on sugar, 2 or 3 eggs, a very little salt, and 6 oz. puff paste. Put the milk, butter, sugar, and salt into a stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to simmer, gradually add the flour and stir the whole with a wooden spoon for two or three minutes; then add the curd (from which all superfluous moisture has been extracted), and work in the eggs one after the other, remembering that this paste must be kept to about the same consistency as for petits-choux. Make six ounces of puff paste and give it seven turns, roll out to a quarter of an inch in thickness, stamp out about a dozen circular pieces with a cutter two inches in diameter, and put these on a baking-sheet an inch apart from each other; put a good teaspoonful of the prepared mixture in the centre of each, wet round the edges, and then turn up the sides so as to form each of them in the shape of a three-cornered hat; egg over with a paste-brush, bake a light- brown colour, and when withdrawn from the oven, dredge over some fine sugar. These cakes may be served either hot or cold. Talmouses with Cheese These are prepared as before, except that the sugar and orange rind must be omitted, substituting instead two and a half ounces of scraped Brie, or Neuchatel, cheese; or failing these, Gruyhre or Parmesan cheese may be substituted. Florentines Roll out about six ounces of puff paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch and lay this over a baking-sheet; spread a thick layer of greengage jam over the paste, and then bake it in a moderate oven; when cool, spread with a coating of whipped whites of egg mixed with sugar, and strew some shred pistachio kernels over the surface; shake some finely sifted sugar over the top, and replace in the oven to lightly brown and set the meringue. A few minutes after the Florentines are taken out of the oven they should be stamped out with a cutter, or else cut out with a knife, in oblong or diamond shapes. Cupid’s Wells Give seven turns to six ounces of puff paste, then roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch; stamp out about a dozen rounds of the paste with a fluted cutter, and place these in rows on a baking-sheet. Then stamp out as many more pieces with a smaller fluted cutter, and after removing the centre of these, wet the surface of the others with a paste-brush, and lay one of the smaller rounds on each ; press them down with the fingers, egg over the tops, and bake a light-fawn colour; when nearly done, dredge over the surface with some sugar, put them back again into the oven for a minute or two to get brown. Fill either with preserved cherries, greengage jam, or currant jelly before serving.421 TARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES Puff=Paste Walnuts Give seven turns to six ounces of puff paste and roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch; then stamp out about twelve rounds with a fluted cutter, and after wetting each of these with a paste-brush dipped in water, fold them up, pressing the two parts of the paste slightly so as to fasten them closely together. Then put in rows on a baking-sheet, egg over, and bake a light colour. Just before they are done, dredge over some fine sugar, replace in the oven for a little while to melt the sugar and to brown on the top; serve hot, with a broad strip of red-currant or apple jelly placed across the centre. Bread=and=Butter Pastry Give six turns to half a pound of puff paste and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; cut this into bands about three inches wide, then cut these again into strips rather more than a quarter of an inch wide, and place in rows on a baking-sheet about an inch apart, so as to allow room to rise in. Bake the strips in a rather hot oven, and just before they are done glaze them—that is, dredge over some fine sugar and brown lightly; then spread with some kind of preserve, and stick together in pairs, to imitate bread- and-butter; dish up on a fancy paper, piled up in rows, in a pyramid. This kind of pastry may also be dished up with some stiffly whipped cream, seasoned with a glass of liqueur, in the centre. Puff “Paste Rings or Wreaths Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste and roll out to the sixth part of an inch in thickness ; stamp out twenty rounds with a fluted cutter, and remove the centre of these with a smaller plain circular cutter. Put the rings on a baking-sheet; shake some fine sugar over them, and bake a light colour in a moderate oven. When done, decorate with some whipped white of egg and sugar, over which sprinkle some coarse sugar; put them to dry, and then finish decorat- ing by inserting some strips of currant or apple jelly in between the folds or dots of the decoration. Note.—Puff paste turned or folded seven times, then rolled out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and stamped out with appropriate fancy-shaped cutters—either in the form of crescents, leaves, trefoil or shamrock, stars, etc.—may also be decorated in the same manner: a forcing-bag should be used for this purpose. Polish Cakes Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste, roll out as above, and then cut up into square pieces measuring about two inches each way; wet these in the centre, and then fold down the corners so as to make them all meet in the middle of the piece of paste; place a dot of paste in the centre of each, pressing it down with the end of the finger, egg over, and bake in a quick oven, and just before they are done, shake some finely sifted sugar over; put them back again in the oven to melt the sugar and to brown lightly. Decorate this kind of pastry with bright red-currant or apple jelly.THE MODERN COOK 422 Harry the VIII.’s Shoestring’s This kind of pastry is prepared in the first instance exactly like the last recipe, as far as folding the corners down. Then cut out a small angle from each of the parts that have been folded down, making it look like four bows joined together; wet the paste and place a small ring of puff paste in the centre of each. Brush over with egg and bake a light colour, afterwards glazing as directed in previous recipes. Fill a paper forcing-bag with some firm red- currant jelly, and use this to draw rather bold lines all round the angular parts of the bows, and also round the ring that has been placed in the centre; then, with another paper bag filled with bright apricot or greengage jam, fill in the centre of the bows: this kind of decoration produces a very pretty effect. Puff=Paste Plaits Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste, roll out to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch, and then cut this into bands about five inches in width, and divide these into narrow strips a quarter of an inch wide. Take three of these strips, and after fastening them together at one end with a little egg or water, plait them neatly but rather loosely together, and when finished fasten the ends. As each plait is completed, place it on a baking-sheet, and when they are all ready, egg over, and bake them a light colour, after which glaze as usual. Just before sending these cakes to table decorate them by placing in the small cavities some dots of bright currant or apple jelly and some greengage jam. Apple Tartlets Make half a pound of tart paste (see p. 392) and roll it out rather thinly ; then stamp out twenty rounds with a fluted cutter suited to the size of the tartlets, and use them to line some greased moulds; fill each tartlet with a dessertspoonful of apple marmalade, cover them in with paste, egg over, place on a baking-sheet, and bake a light colour; when done, dredge over some fine sugar, and brown for a few minutes in the oven. Apple Tartlets (another method) Line the tartlet tins as above, then garnish them with quarters of small apples with the cores taken out, and afterwards parboiled in a little syrup in which the juice of a lemon has been squeezed; bake the tartlets, and when done, dilute some apricot jam with a little of the syrup; use this to mask over the apples in the tartlets, and then place a preserved cherry on the centre of each. Cherry Tartlets Stone half a pound of cherries, put these into a small sugar-boiler with six ounces of castor sugar and one gill of water, toss them in this, then leave them on the fire to boil for about five minutes; the cherries must then be strained off, and the syrup reduced to about one-thirdTARTS AND FANCY PASTRIES 423 of its quantity, then added to the cherries and put aside in a small basin. Line a dozen small tartlet pans with short or tart crust (the rounds being stamped out with a fluted cutter); fill with clean rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Remove the rice, shake some fine sugar over them, and brown in the oven. Just before serving the tartlets, fill them with the cherries. Note.—Raspberries, currants, gooseberries, and all kinds of plums may be prepared for these tartlets by gently boiling them for a few minutes in a little syrup; the fruit should then be strained and the syrup reduced to one-third its original quantity, and put aside with the fruit in a small basin to fill the tartlets when baked. Puff=Paste Tartlets Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste (see p. 393), roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, and then with a circular cutter stamp out twenty rounds ; then take a small cutter to stamp out the centre of these: gather up the trimmings, knead them together, roll them out, and stamp out as many rounds as there are rings; put these on a baking-sheet, moisten the edges with a brush dipped in water, stick the rings of paste on these, shake some sugar over them with the dredger, and bake a light-fawn colour. When the tartlets are done, mask the bands or rings with a little meringue- paste, dip them in some chopped pistachios or almonds, and leave to dry. Before serving these tartlets, fill either with cherries, currants, plums, etc., prepared as before, or else with any kind of preserve. Mosaic Tartlets Prepare a dozen puff-paste tartlets as above, and fill each of them with a spoonful of apricot or greengage jam; wet round the edges, and place a mosaic of paste on the top of each, egg these over lightly, and bake a light brown ; when they are done, shake some fine sugar over, and brown for a few minutes in the oven. Parisian Loaves Prepare some small slender finger-biscuits, spread them with apricot or greengage jam, and stick two of these together; then hold one at a time on a fork, mask over slightly with some meringue paste, and with a paper forcing-bag of the same mixture draw parallel lines across the cakes in a slanting direction ; shake over some sugar, and put them in the oven to bake, or, rather, dry, a light-fawn colour. When done, insert some narrow strips of bright currant jelly, greengage jam, or apple jelly between the bars of the decoration. Marygolds Give seven turns to half a pound of puff paste, roll out to the thickness of the sixth part of an inch, stamp out twenty rounds with a circular fluted cutter and put them on a baking-sheet; roll out the trimmings, and with two smaller cutters stamp out as many rings of the size of a shilling as there are cakes, and place one of these on theTHE MODERN COOK 424 centre of each of the marygolds, previously wetted all over the surface. Then arrange some almonds, split into four strips length- wise, closely round the rings in a somewhat slanting direction; these must be slightly pressed into the paste to make them hold on, and should be arranged so as to give to the cake, as much as possible, the appearance of the flower they are intended to resemble. Shake over some sugar with the dredger, and bake in a moderate oven. When done, insert some very narrow strips of firm red-currant or apple jelly between each piece of almond, and place a dot of apricot or greengage jam in the ring. Filbert Cream Tartlets Line a dozen tartlet moulds with some short crust, and then fill them with the following preparation:—First extract the kernels from a sufficient quantity of fresh filberts to produce four ounces of nuts; pound these in a mortar, adding a dessertspoonful of orange or rose water to prevent them from turning oily; add two ounces of fresh butter, four ounces of sugar, a liqueur-glassful of white noyau, and the yolks of two eggs; beat the whole well together, and use as directed. Bake the tartlets in a moderate oven, and when done, turn them out of the moulds on to a clean baking- sheet, and glaze the surface of the cream with the following mixture: —To a small glassful of white noyau add about two ounces of icing sugar, work these well together until they form a rather thick icing, and use this to glaze the tartlets with. Let the icing dry before serving. Coventry Tartlets Line a dozen deep-fluted tartlet moulds with some short crust, and fill them with the following preparation:—Procure about six ounces of fresh curd, and put it in a mortar with four ounces of castor sugar, the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of fresh butter, as much grated nutmeg as would hold on a sixpence, a small pinch of salt, and a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water; pound all these smoothly together until the mixture becomes creamy, and then use as directed. Bake the tartlets a light colour, and when done, turn them out upside down upon a sheet of paper, and leave to cool. Then mask over the upper part of each tartlet with some apricot marmalade, and decorate to taste with angelica, dried cherries, etc. These cakes may be varied in appearance by using currant or apple jelly instead of apricot, etc., and ornamenting them with small cut fancy shapes or designs, made of puff paste or almond paste. Apple Tart with Quince Peel two pounds of apples, remove the cores, cut them in slices or quarters, and arrange them neatly in the pie-dish; then add half a pound of quinces, which must be sliced up very thin, and stewed in a small stew-pan over a slow fire with a little water, sugar, and a small piece of butter; add three to four ounces of moist sugar, and sprinkle a little zest of lemon (t.e. the rind rubbed on sugar and then scraped off) over the top. Cover the tart with puff paste,425 FRITTERS first placing a band of the same round the edge of the dish; ornament the edges by pressing them with the back of a knife, brush over the tart with white of egg and bake for about forty minutes; when done, sift some sugar upon the top, and glaze with a red-hot salamander or return it to the oven to brown. Pear Tart If mellow pears be used for this purpose, the directions in the last recipe may be followed; but if stewing pears are made use of, these must be first stewed with some sugar, a little water, and some lemon-peel and cloves tied together. When the pears are nearly done, let them cool before filling the pie-dish, which in this case should be covered with tart paste (see p. 392). Brush over the surface with a paste-brush dipped in some beaten white of egg, sprinkle with sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Fruit Tarts in General When peaches, apricots, or any of the larger kinds of plums are used for making tarts, the stones should be removed, and the kernels taken out and blanched; the fruit should be then neatly arranged in the pie-dish in the form of a dome, with the kernels amongst it, and some sifted sugar strewn over all. Then cover with short crust, and finish as directed in the two previous recipes. For making cherry, damson, raspberry, and currant tarts, follow the same directions, except that the stones need not be removed from the first two. FRITTERS Apple Fritters Peel and cut three or four even-sized apples in rather thick slices, scoop out the cores with a cutter, and place the pieces of apples in a basin with a small glass of brandy and some grated peel of lemon or orange, letting them steep in this for several hours if possible. When about to send the fritters to table, dip the pieces of apple into some light frying batter (see p. 56), take them out one at a time, and fry a golden colour in some hot fat; when they are done, drain them on a sheet of paper, trim off all the rough parts, sprinkle some fine sugar upon them, and serve. Note.—Pear fritters are made in the same manner as the above. Pine-Apple Fritters Slice four or five round slices of preserved pine-apple without waste; if it is small, cut it into slices in the same manner as apples; but if the fruit happens to be large, it should be cut up in pieces about the size of a finger; these must be then steeped in a small glass of maraschino in a basin for several hours. Dip in batter mixed with cream. In other respects, finish as directed for apple fritters.THE MODERN COOK 426 Orange Fritters Choose three or four thin-skinned oranges, peel and divide them into sections, remove the pips, and then put them to steep in a basin with a small glass of brandy and some grated rind of orange. Then drain the pieces of oranges from the brandy, dip them into some frying batter (see p. 56), take them out one by one, and fry them in some hot fat; dish up in the usual manner. Peach Fritters Peel and cut six peaches into quarters, and steep them in a basin with a glass of noyau; then fry in batter as before. Note.—Fritters of apricots and large plums are prepared as the above, brandy being used instead of liqueur for steeping. Spanish Puffs Prepare six ounces of petits-choux paste (see p. 407). Make it up into little balls and put it out fn rows on greased paper just before frying them. Fry a golden colour in hot fat, and when done, drain them on paper to absorb any grease : dredge over some castor sugar, and dish up on a lace paper or folded napkin in a conical form. Custard Fritters Ingredients : x pt. milk or cream, 4 yolks of eggs, 1 oz. finely sifted flour, 1 oz. sugar, a little ground cinnamon and grated lemon-peel. Mix the above ingredients together in a basin, after having first mixed the flour, cinnamon, and lemon in the cream ; strain the whole through a sieve, and then pour the custard into a plain mould spread with butter. Steam the custard in the usual manner, and when done, let it get cold. Then cut up into slices about half an. inch thick, and divide again into squares: put these on a dish, and sprinkle them with a little cinnamon powder and a tablespoonful of brandy. When about to send to table, dip each piece of custard separately into some light frying batter (see p. 56), then drop them into some hot lard, and fry them a light golden colour; when done, drain on a sheet of paper, trim off any rough parts, dredge over with castor sugar, and dish up on a fancy dish paper. Note.—This kind of fritter may be varied by changing the flavouring, and also by adding a little grated chocolate, ground almonds, essence of coffee, or lightly burnt sugar. Princess Fritters This kind of fritter is prepared from the remains of Brioche, Baba, Savarin, Compi&gne cake, or Kouglaiiff; whichever is used should be first cut up into slices a quarter of an inch thick, and then again stamped out into small rounds with a cutter; steep these in enough cream to cover them, and sprinkle over some orange sugar. When about to fry the fritters, dip each separately in lightFRITTERS 427 frying batter. When they are fried crisp, sift over some castor sugar ; and, when dished up, pour some apricot jam (diluted with a little orange-flower water) round, and serve. Portuguese Fritters Ingredients : 3 oz. Carolina rice, 1 oz. sugar, 1 pint milk, 1 small piece cinnamon, 2 tablespoonfuls orange marmalade, 2 eggs. Thoroughly pick and wash the rice, and then put it in a con- venient sized stew-pan with the sugar, milk, and cinnamon ; leave to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire until the whole of the milk is absorbed by the rice. Next add the marmalade and the yolks of the eggs; stir quickly until the eggs set firm in the mixture; turn out upon a clean dish or baking-sheet, and spread equally to about a quarter of an inch in thickness. When this has become cold, cut out in oblong shapes, dip each in light frying batter, sprinkle with castor sugar mixed with ground cinnamon, and dish up on a napkin. Diavolini Ingredients : 2J oz. ground rice, x oz. sugar, 1 pt. milk, 1 teaspoonful essence of ginger, 2 eggs, a few pieces preserved ginger. Mix the rice, sugar, and milk together in a stew-pan, and stir over the fire until it thickens. The rice must then be removed from the fire, and the preserved ginger cut into very small dice-like shapes, the essence of ginger, and the yolks of eggs be added. Stir the whole over a quick fire until the eggs are cooked, and then finish the fritters in the usual way. Banana Fritters (Sweet) Remove the skin from six not overripe bananas, cut each in half crossways, and then divide in halves lengthways. Put the bananas thus prepared into a pie-dish, sprinkle with castor sugar, a little ground cinnamon, and a liqueur - glass of kirsch or maraschino. Allow to stand for about fifteen minutes. Have ready some frying batter. Coat each piece of banana with batter and drop into very hot frying fat. When of a golden colour and crisp, take up and drain the fritters on a cloth or paper. Dish up, dredge with fine sugar, and serve hot. German Fritters Divide six ounces of brioche paste into ten or twelve equal parts ; mould these into small finger shapes, and bake them a golden colour. Let them steep for a few hours in cream flavoured with vanilla, after which they must be egged and bread-crumbed. About twenty minutes before the fritters are served, fry them in hot lard, sprinkle over some vanilla sugar, and send to table quite hot.THE MODERN COOK 428 ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS Iced Cake a la Stanley First make a Parisian cake (in a fluted mould) as directed on p. 399. Next prepare a compote of greengages in syrup; these must be kept whole, and of as green a colour as possible. Then prepare a custard in the following manner:—Mix four yolks of eggs with a pint of boiling cream or milk, one and a half ounces of sugar, and sufficient cinnamon and lemon-peel to flavour; stir the whole in a stew-pan over the fire until it begins to thicken; the custard should then be immediately passed through a tammy or fine sieve into a basin, and left to get cold. Then put the custard into an ordinary ice-machine with crushed ice and freezing salt. When frozen sufficiently firm, scrape the custard from the sides and bottom of the machine, place a damp cloth over the top, and keep in a cool place until wanted. When about to send the cake to table, scoop out nearly the whole of the crumb from the centre and fill it with the iced custard; pile up the compote of greengages on the top, pour some of the syrup round, and serve. Iced Rice Pudding a la Cintra Wash and parboil two ounces of Carolina rice; put it into a stew-pan with a pint of milk and a gill of cream, a pod of vanilla, and two ounces of sugar; let the rice simmer very gently over a slow fire in the milk until the grains are almost dissolved, stirring occasionally. Then mix the yolks of two eggs with the rest of the ingredients. Stir the whole well together for several minutes; then freeze the mixture in a plain mould in the same manner as directed above; cover with the lid, and immerse in the ice and freezing salt as before. Meanwhile prepare a compote of four or five oranges (preferably Tangerines) as follows:—Peel and cut each orange into quarters and put into a convenient sized sugar-boiler or stew-pan containing about a pint of syrup (made with one pound of sugar and half a pint of water). Let the pieces of orange boil up gently in this for two minutes, and then drain them on a sieve. Boil the syrup down to about one-half its original quantity; add a wine-glass of Curasao and a tablespoonful of apricot jam; mix together, and pour over the oranges in a basin. When about to send the pudding to table, turn out of the mould on to a dish, pile up the compote of oranges on the top, pour the syrup over, and serve. Iced Pudding & la Cerito First prepare about twelve finger, and the same number of almond gaufres (see p. 404), and arrange the finger gaufres round the inside of a plain circular charlotte mould. Prepare also a pintICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 429 and a half of iced custard as directed for the Stanley cake, except that this must be flavoured with vanilla. About an hour before sending the pudding to table, garnish the sides of the gaufres arranged round the mould with a coating of the vanilla-cream ice about an inch thick, and fill up the mould in the same manner; place a round piece of paper on the top, and cover with the lid; put the pudding in the ice-machine surrounded by the usual freezing mixture; cover over with a damp cloth, and leave in a cool place till wanted. The pudding must then be turned out of the mould on to a dish, and garnished round the base and on the centre with small almond gaufres, made in the form of cornets or cornucopias filled with a little of the vanilla-cream ice. Place some ripe strawberries on the top, and serve immediately. Iced Pudding a la Prince of Wales First prepare a pint of custard as for the Stanley cake (see p. 428); add a pound of strawberries, which have been passed through a sieve, and four ounces of castor sugar, and leave to get cold. Then freeze it in the usual manner in a cylindrical pudding mould. The pudding must then be turned out of the mould on to a dish, the centre filled with ripe strawberries, and served immediately. Iced Pudding k la Chesterfield Peel and grate a medium-sized pine-apple, add this to four yolks' of eggs, one pint of cream or milk, and four ounces of sugar; stir the whole together in a stew-pan over the fire until the custard begins to thicken; then pass it through a tammy, by rubbing with two wooden spoons, in the same manner as for a puree, or through a fine sieve. Ice the custard in the usual manner, put in a mould, cover, and keep in a cool place until wanted. When about to send the pudding to table, turn it out of the mould on to a dish; garnish the base with small gaufres, shaped like horns, filled with some of the iced cream reserved for the purpose, and serve. If liked, the pudding can be put back into the pine-apple shell, reserved whole for the purpose. Iced Pudding a la Kinnaird Blanch and peel three ounces of sweet almonds and one of bitter; dry them in a cloth, put them into a sugar-boiler, and stir them over a slow fire in order to brown them. Then add two ounces of castor sugar, and continue stirring over the fire until the sugar has melted and become brown ; then pound thoroughly in a mortar, and add the mixture to two yolks of eggs, two ounces of sugar, half a pint of milk, and half a pint of cream. Stir the whole with a wooden spoon in a stew-pan over the fire until the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, and then pass it through a tammy in the same way as a purde. Freeze the custard in the usual mannerTHE MODERN COOK 43° in a fancy mould; turn out of the mould on to a dish, and garnish appropriately before serving. Note.—The centre of this pudding may be filled with apricot jam or orange marmalade. Iced Pudding a la Prince Albert Prepare about a pint of rice custard ice as directed for the pudding a la Cintra (see p. 428). Slice up six or eight ripe apricots, and boil them with two or three ounces of sugar and half a pint of water until the fruit is dissolved; then pass it through a sieve,—if too thick, add a little thin syrup,—then freeze as usual. The two ices being ready, a fancy pudding mould should be lined with a coating of apricot-water ice, about half an inch thick, and the centre filled up entirely with the iced rice-custard; cover the pudding with the lid of the mould, and stand it in ice and freezing salt until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be placed on a dish, and served immediately. Iced Pudding a la Parisienne Blanch and peel three ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter, wash and dry them on a cloth, and then thoroughly pound them with two ounces of sugar in a mortar until they become a soft paste; add this to two yolks of eggs, half pint of milk, and half a pint of cream; stir the whole together in a stew-pan over the fire until the eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, and then pass through a tammy or fine sieve in the same manner as a puree. Then freeze as usual in a fancy pudding mould. The pudding must then be placed on a dish, and the top garnished with a compote of apricots; mix a glass of noyau in with the syrup, pour it over the pudding, and serve. Iced Pudding a la Duchess Peel four ounces of filbert kernels and pound them with two ounces of sugar (adding a few drops of rose or orange water) until they become soft and pulpy; put the mixture into a basin, add a pint of cream, stir the whole well together, and pass it through a tammy or fine sieve; then freeze this in the usual manner. While the above is being prepared, a pint of cherry-water ice must be made as follows:—Remove the stalks from a pound of cherries and pound them thoroughly in a mortar, then put them into a sugar- boiler, add three ounces of sugar, and boil the whole together over a brisk fire for five minutes; rub this through a hair-sieve into a basin, and freeze it, adding a little thin syrup if necessary. Use the cherry-water ice to line the pudding mould with, garnish the centre with the filbert-cream ice, cover the mould with its lid, and stand the pudding in crushed ice until dishing-up time. The pudding must then be turned out on a dish, and served immediately.431 ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS Biscuits Glaces in Small Cases To four yolks of eggs add one pint of cream, or half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, two ounces of ratafias, and four ounces of sugar; stir the whole in a stew-pan over the fire until the egg is sufficiently set; then pass the custard through a tammy or fine sieve into a basin, and when it has become cold, add a wine-glass of maraschino, and freeze this in the usual manner. Just before dishing up the biscuits, add half a pint of whipped cream to the iced custard; fill some small paper cases with this, and afterwards sprinkle over some pounded ratafias, and serve. Note.—These iced biscuits may be varied by changing the flavourings: all kinds of liqueurs, and essences of almonds, vanilla, orange, lemon, coffee, chocolate, or orange-flowers may be used: also by adding a puree of apricots, strawberries, raspberries, or pine- apple to the custard. Iced Nesselrode Pudding Boil two dozen chestnuts in water, and when done peel, pound, and rub them through a sieve; put this pulp into a stew-pan with two yolks of eggs, a pint of cream (or half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream), a few drops of vanilla essence, and half a pint of pine- apple syrup ; stir these ingredients over the fire until the eggs are sufficiently set in the custard, then rub the whole through a tammy or sieve, and put the cream into a basin. Chop two ounces of green citron, two ounces of pine-apple, and put these in a basin with two ounces of dried cherries and two ounces of Smyrna raisins; to these add a wine-glass of maraschino, and allow the fruit to steep for several hours. Freeze the chestnut cream in a freezing-pot immersed in rough ice, and freeze it in the usual manner; then add half a pint of whipped cream and the fruit. Leave the pudding in ice until it is required to be sent to table. Iced Pudding a la Princess Alice First remove the skins from the kernels of about two dozen walnuts, then pound these with six ounces of sugar until the whole forms a soft and pulpy paste ; put this into a basin, mix it with a pint of single cream, then pass it through a tammy or fine sieve and freeze in the usual manner. Meanwhile boil eighteen greengages, with four ounces of sugar and a gill of water, until the fruit is dissolved, when the whole must be rubbed through a tammy or sieve : this should then be frozen, adding, if necessary, a little thin syrup. The pudding mould must now be lined with the greengage ice, and the centre filled with the walnut-cream ice ; then place the lid on the mould, and stand the pudding in rough ice and freezing salt in the usual manner until dishing-up time, when the pudding must be turned out on to a dish, garnished round with small almond gaufres filled with whipped cream, with a preserved cherry placed on the top of each, and served immediately.THE MODERN COOK 43 2 Mille=Feuilles Cake1 a la Chantilly Give seven turns to one pound of puff paste (see p. 393) and roll out to the thickness of a quarter of an inch; then, with a circular cutter about five inches in diameter, stamp out eight or ten rounds; place these on baking-sheets, stamp out the centre part from each of the rounds, leaving only a circular band about two inches wide; dredge over some fine sugar, and bake a light colour, and when done leave to become cold. The rounds must now be raised one upon another, with layers of some kind of preserve between each, and placed on a baking-sheet, in order that the cake may be entirely covered with a thin coating of whipped whites of eggs mixed with sugar; this must be smoothed over with the blade of a knife, and should then be ornamented with a forcing bag and pipe filled with some of the white of egg: as soon as this is completed, shake some fine sugar over it, and dry a very light colour in a slow oven. When the decoration of the cake has been dried, it must be ornamented with bright red- currant and apple jelly, placed tastefully about the design so as to give it more effect. On sending to table, fill the centre of the cake with whipped cream flavoured with some kind of liqueur, garnish the dome of cream with strawberries, and serve. The above may also be ornamented with spun sugar or with pistachios. The centre of these cakes may also be filled with a Macedoine of fruit in jelly, or with any of the various kinds of creams; the latter should be whipped on the ice until nearly set. Baked Banana Custard Break four fresh eggs separately into a basin, add one ounce of castor sugar and beat up thoroughly, then add the pulp of three ripe bananas and one pint of milk. Pour this into one large or two smaller buttered pie-dishes, grate over a little nutmeg or powdered cinnamon, and bake slowly in a moderately heated oven for about twenty-five minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Apples and Rice, Ornamented Peel and core carefully six to eight golden pippins; boil these very gently in some light syrup for about ten minutes, when they will be sufficiently done. Then prepare half a pound of rice in the same manner as on p. 428, observing that for this purpose it must be kept firmer. Prepare also a circular or oval raised pie-case (see p. 386) about three inches high, taking care that its diameter suits the dish it is meant for. When the case is baked, fill it with the prepared rice, and pile the apples up in a pyramidal form, placing some of the rice in the centre of these. Mash the whole with some diluted apricot jam, place a preserved cherry on the top of each apple, and insert some pieces of angelica cut in the form of pointed leaves in between the apples. This dish should be served hot, and must therefore be dished up only a short time previous to serving. 1 Or “ thousand-leaved1' cake, so called from the lightness of the puff paste with which it is made.ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 433 Apples and Rice, Plain Cut six or eight apples in halves, take out the cores, peel them, and place them in neat order in a deep stew-pan thickly spread with butter; strew some lemon sugar over, put the lid on, and bake with- out allowing the apples to brown. Prepare six or eight ounces of rice boiled with milk, sugar, a little butter, and some cinnamon; when thoroughly done, work this with a spoon, and then dish up in the form of a dome; arrange the apples neatly upon this, pour some melted apricot jam over the whole, and serve quite hot. Apples a la Portuguaise Prepare half a pint of apple marmalade. Split six or eight apples into halves, peel them and remove the cores, and then place them in a deep stew-pan thickly spread with butter; shake some sugar and grated lemon-peel over, and bake in the oven. Prepare next half a pint of pastry custard (see p. 419), also an ornamented case (see p. 229), which should be partially baked. When these are all ready, nearly fill the case with the apple marmalade, leaving an opening or well in the centre ; then pile the pieces of apples upon the marmalade in the form of a dome, leaving the centre hollow; fill this with the pastry custard. Next whip four whites of eggs quite firm, mix in four ounces of sifted sugar, and use this meringue paste to coat the apples: this is done by first masking over the entire surface of the dome, formed by the apples, with a smooth coating of the prepared whites of eggs, and then with a forcing-bag filled with some of the same, forcing out the design ; then shake some sifted sugar upon it, and bake the meringue a light- fawn colour. Just before sending to table, finish ornamenting it by filling up the interstices of the meringue with alternate strips or layers of red-currant and apple jelly, and also with greengage or apricot jam; these must be arranged so as to show their colours distinctly, which will produce a very pretty effect. This pudding should be served hot. Apples in the Form of a Porcupine Prepare about three-quarters of a pint of apple marmalade; place this in an oval case of raised pie crust previously baked for the purpose; leave a hollow in the centre of the marmalade, fill this up with some pastry custard (see p. 419), and spread some apricot jam over the whole. Next prepare some meringue as directed in the last recipe, and spread this over the surface of the apples, giving it at the same time the form of a porcupine; when this has been effected, about four ounces of sweet almonds, previously shred in strips, must be regularly inserted in close rows, to imitate the quills of the porcupine, and the head and feet should be marked out with angelica cut out in imitation of these. Dredge over some sifted sugar, and bake the meringue a light-fawn colour. Just before sending to table, fill out the circle of the eyes with apple jelly, with a currant insertedTHE MODERN COOK 434 in the centre of each to form the pupils, and use a forcing-bag filled with red-currant jelly to mark out some stripes lengthwise between the rows of almonds placed on the back. Apples a la Portuguaise (another way) Peel and core six or eight golden pippins or small russets, and then simmer them in a pint of syrup until they are nearly done ; they must then be drained on a sieve. Next spread the bottom and sides of a baked pie-case, raised in a mould about two inches high (short crust should be used for this purpose), with apple marmalade mixed with one-third part of orange jam, and arrange the apples in close circular order in this: each apple must be filled with orange jam, and the entire surface then masked over with a rather thick coating of transparent red-currant or apple jelly. Some tasteful design should be formed on the layer of jelly in the form of a wreath or scroll; this should be done either with almond paste or with puff paste which has been previously stamped out with appropriate cutters, sugared over, and baked without browning. Baked Bananas Select large and not overripe bananas for this dish. Strip off about a third of the skin lengthways, and loosen the remainder of the skin from the fruit by means of a teaspoon. Lay the bananas in a buttered saute-pan or baking-dish, place a few very small bits of butter on the top of each, and sprinkle freely with castor sugar; pour over each about half a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and bake from fifteen to twenty minutes in a hot oven. Dish up neatly, and serve hot. Baked Bananas with Rice Cook four ounces of rice, previously blanched in one pint of milk, sweeten with sugar, and add a little piece of butter. Put six large bananas in a baking-pan with enough water to just cover them, and bake in the oven for about fifteen minutes. Put the cooked rice in a hot deep dish, oval or round, remove the skins from the baked bananas, and arrange them neatly on the top of the rice. Serve hot with cream. Flan of Peaches For this purpose, a crust or case should be prepared in the following manner:—First make half a pound of short crust (see p. 391); then butter the inside of a fluted circular or oval mould ; line this with the paste, cut the edges level, and then raise them all round, and pinch the part that rises above the mould with a pair of pastry pincers. Next fill the case with clean rice and bake it until it is about three parts done; the rice must then be removed, and the case brushed out clean with a paste-brush, after which it must be nearly filled with halves of peaches, previously skinned and simmered in some thin syrup for about five minutes; put the flan again in the oven for about a quarter of an hour, andICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 435 when withdrawn, arrange a close row of halves of peaches (previously simmered in syrup) with a peach kernel on each piece of peach. Pour over some of the syrup, and serve. Note.—For the preparation of flans of apricots, and all kinds of plums, follow the above directions. Neapolitan Cake a la Chantilly Measure out half a pound of flour, four ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of ground almonds, and four ounces of butter. Place these in- gredients on a pastry slab, add three yolks of eggs, the zest of the rind of an orange extracted by rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a very little salt; work these well together, and when thoroughly mixed, knead the paste into the form of a rolling-pin and divide it into six or eight equal parts; these must be again kneaded into round balls, rolled out into rounds, placed upon baking-sheets spread with butter, egged and pricked all over with a fork, and baked lightly. When cold, these rounds must then be laid one upon another, with a layer of some kind of preserve spread between each—either apricot, green- gage, strawberry, orange, or raspberry jam may be used. Previous to placing the last piece on the top of the cake, it should be first decorated with meringue paste or sugar icing; the sides must be masked with some kind of bright preserve—such as greengage, apricot, red-currant or apple jelly—and afterwards ornamented with a design, formed either of almond or gum paste, or else with piping, as used for wedding-cakes. The cake should then be placed on a dish, the centre filled with whipped cream, and some strawberries piled on the top; when these are not in season, preserved cherries or angelica may be substituted. Croquante of Oranges Remove the peel and all the white pith from about half-a-dozen sound, and not overripe, oranges; then divide them into small sections, taking care not to break the thin skin. Next put about half a pound of the best lump sugar into a sugar-boiler with sufficient water to cover, and boil it down until it snaps or becomes brittle, which may be easily ascertained thus: take up a little of the sugar, when it begins to boil up in large purling bubbles, on the point of a knife, and instantly dip it into some cold water; if the sugar becomes set, it is sufficiently boiled, and will then easily snap in breaking.1 The sugar should now be withdrawn from the fire. Dip the pieces of orange stuck on the points of small skewers in the sugar, and arrange at the bottom and round the sides of a plain circular mould (lightly rubbed with salad oil). When the whole is complete, and the sugar has become firm by cooling, just before sending to table fill the inside of the croquante with whipped cream seasoned with sugar, a glass of maraschino, and some whole straw- berries, and then turn it out on to a napkin, and serve. 1 When boiling sugar for this purpose, add a pinch of cream of tartar.43 6 THE MODERN COOK Croquante of Fresh Walnuts The best time for making this is when the walnuts are just ripe enough to be easily taken out of the shell; about three dozen will be required for the purpose. They must be carefully shelled and divided into halves, then peeled and kept in a clean napkin until used. In all other respects, this kind of croquante must be finished as in the last recipe. Croquante of Macaroons a la Chantilly Take half a pound of small macaroons, boil down half a pound of the finest loaf sugar as directed in the Croquante of Oranges. Rub the inside of a basket-shaped mould with oil, and proceed to line this with the macaroons lightly dipped in the sugar—taking care to arrange them in neat and close order; when the croquante is completed, and the sugar has become firmly set, turn it out of the mould. With the remainder of the sugar form the handles and a scroll-pattern border, to place round the join of the basket and also round the edge. Just before sending the croquante to table fill the inside with whipped cream, arrange some strawberries, preserved cherries, or cut angelica neatly on the surface, and serve. Meringue a la Parisienne First make half a pound of office-paste (see p. 392); then slightly oil the outside of a vegetable cutter, about one and a quarter inches in diameter, and cover this, to the extent of about three and a half inches in length, with some of the office-paste rolled out thinly; fasten the join neatly with egg, and place on a baking-sheet. Roll out the remainder of the paste to the thickness of the eighth part of an inch, and out of this cut two rounds, one measuring about six inches and the other four inches in diameter; place these on a buttered baking-sheet, egg over, prick with a fork, and bake in a slow oven When they are done and have become cold, file or scrape the edges even and smooth, and cut the ends of the pillar even that it may stand perfectly level; then fasten the base of the pillar on to the centre of the largest round with a little white of egg and castor sugar mixed together; next fasten the smaller round on the top of the pillar in like manner, taking care that it is quite straight, and put the whole in a warm place to dry. Whip six whites of eggs to a firm froth, and then mix in half a pound of finely sifted sugar; use part of this to mask the entire surface of the foundation already described, and set this to dry at the mouth of the oven; when it has become comparatively hard, fill a forcing-bag with some of the meringue, and force out a design round the pedestal of the meringue : when this is done, dredge it over with sugar, and put it into the oven to bake a light-fawn colour. With part of the meringue, a kind of cup or deep saucer, measuring about five inches in diameter, must be formed by covering a flat dome with the mixture to the thickness of about an inch;ICE PUDDINGS AND FANCY SWEETS 437 this must be well sugared over and baked firm, without allowing it to brown. When this is done, take the meringue carefully off the dome and place it upside down in a soup-plate, and after the white of egg has been partially removed from the interior, smooth with a spoon, sugar over, and set it to dry at the entrance of the oven, if the latter is not too hot. As soon as the meringue has become dry and hard, fasten it on the pedestal with a little of the paste, and use a forcing-bag filled with meringue to pipe the edge and sides; shake some sifted sugar over the unbaked part, and put the meringue to dry in a warm place, taking particular care that it does not brown. Just before sending to table, place the meringue on a dish, fill it with whipped cream flavoured with orange-flower or some liqueur, and arrange some strawberries on the surface; garnish round the base with quarters of lemons or oranges filled with jelly (see p. 457), and serve. Meringues with Banana Cream Whisk stiffly three to four whites of eggs, then stir in carefully three to four ounces of very fine castor sugar. Shape the mixture into meringues by the help of a tablespoon or a Savoy forcing-bag on to a meringue board or baking-sheet lined with paper. Dust the shapes with fine sugar, and bake in a very cool oven till the meringues are firm and crisp and of a light-fawn colour. Press in the bottom of each and place them on a tray to cool. Whip up one gill of cream, peel two to three ripe bananas, rub them through a sieve, sweeten to taste, and add a few drops of vanilla essence, then mix with the whipped cream and fill the meringue shells. Place each two together, and dish up. Grosse=Meringue with Pistachios Prepare some meringue as directed on p. 436 ; then cut three or four circular pieces of writing-paper to the size of a dinner- plate, and proceed to cover each of these with a kind of wreath formed with the meringue paste, as follows:—First draw a rather thick circle, about three inches in diameter, round the inner part of one of the pieces of paper above alluded to; then with a dessert- spoon mould the meringue in the form of very small elongated ovals, and place these crosswise, closely to each other, upon the circle already mentioned, thus forming a kind of wreath ; fill the remaining papers in the same way, and then, after the meringues have been well covered with sifted sugar, shake off the loose sugar, place on square pieces of board, and bake a very light colour. When done, turn the wreaths upside down upon plates, shake some sifted sugar over the unbaked part, and leave to dry in a very slow oven. Just before sending to table, pile the wreaths or rings of meringue one upon another, with a layer of apricot jam spread in between each ; fill the centre with whipped cream flavoured with a glass of liqueur, and serve.THE MODERN COOK 438 Swan of Savoy Biscuit a la Chantilly Prepare one pint of Savoy cake batter (see p. 401), and bake it in a plain oval mould—or, failing this, in a deep oblong paper case; when it is done, and has become quite cold, shape it with a sharp knife in the rough outline of the body of a swan ; the wings, tail- piece, and the neck and head must be made of office-paste (see p. 392); the bill should be dipped in caramel, and the eyes may be formed with a little of the same, with a currant stuck in the centre for the pupil. Just before sending the swan to table, stick the neck into the breast-part, insert the wing-pieces in the sides, and the fan- like piece into the tail-part; cover the bird entirely with a thick coating of whipped cream ; smooth this over with tbe blade of a knife, and then, with the point of a small knife, imitate the feathers about the wings, tail, and body. Place some spun sugar round the swan—in imitation of waves—and put a border of petits-choux, glazed with rough sugar and pistachios, round the base, and serve. Glazed Ham of Savoy Cake Bake one pint of Savoy cake batter in an oblong paper case; when this has become cold, shape it with a sharp knife in the form of a nicely trimmed ham, and hollow it out underneath. That part of the rind which is usually left on the knuckle as an ornament must be imitated by spreading a layer of chocolate icing over it, in the form of a scallop-shell; the remaining part of the surface of the ham should be masked with a coating of diluted bright apricot jam, to imitate glaze. Just before sending the ham to table, fill the hollow part with some Macedoine of fruit in jelly, or else with some kind of cream; then place the ham on a dish, fix a handsome paper ruffle on the knuckle with a small silver skewer; garnish the ham round the base with croutons of some kind of sweet jelly, pink and white; place an ornament of the same on the top, and serve. RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES Rice Cake with Almonds Wash four ounces of rice, put it into a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, three ounces of sugar, half an ounce of bitter and two ounces of sweet almonds ground, one pint of milk, and a very little salt; boil very gently by the side of a slow fire, and by the time the milk has become absorbed by the rice, the latter will be sufficiently done. When the rice is done, mix in the yolks of two eggs, and the whites of two, whipped. Next shred two ounces of sweet almonds, and strew them equally over the inside of a plain buttered mould; pour in the prepared rice, and bake the cake for about one hour; when done, turn out on to a dish, pour some diluted apricot jam round the base, and serve. Note.—Rice cakes may also be flavoured with vanilla, orange-439 RICE CAKES AND TIMBALES flower, lemon and cinnamon, coffee, or any kind of liqueur: dried cherries, currants, sultana raisins, candied orange, lemon or citron, or pistachio kernels may be added. Timbale of Rice The only difference between this and a rice cake consists in the mould being lined either with short or puff paste; nouille paste, however, is sometimes used for the purpose: it should be rolled in the form of very small pipes, and the mould closely lined with them. The prepared rice should then be poured into the mould, and baked for about an hour and a half. When done, turn the timbale out of the mould on to a dish, glaze over with sugar, and brown in the oven. Then pour some kind of diluted preserve (warm) round the base, and serve hot. Nouilles Cake a l’Allemande Prepare four ounces of nouilles (see p. 208), put them into a stew-pan with a pint of milk of almonds,1 three ounces of sugar, two ounces of butter, a few drops of vanilla essence, and a very little salt; cover with the lid, and leave to simmer very gently by the side of a slow fire; by the time that the nouilles have absorbed all the milk, they will be sufficiently done, and must then be withdrawn from the fire and emptied into a basin. Add the yolks of two eggs and the whipped whites of two, mix the whole lightly together, and pour into a buttered mould lined with shredded almonds. The cake must then be baked a light brown, and when done, turned out of the mould on a dish, and served with some Victoria Cherry sauce (see p. 16). Note.—This kind of cake may also be made with macaroni, vermicelli, or semolina, and flavoured in the same manner as rice cakes or timbales. Vermicelli Cake Parboil six ounces of vermicelli, drain it on a sieve, and then put it into a stew-pan with half a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, one ounce of butter, three ounces of sugar, the zest or essence of the rind of one orange extracted by rubbing on a piece of sugar, and a little salt; cover with the lid, and set the stew-pan to simmer very gently on a'slow fire until the vermicelli has entirely absorbed the milk, etc. Then add the yolks of two eggs and the whipped whites of two, mix the whole lightly together, and pour into a buttered mould lined with bread-crumbs; bake the cake in the oven for about an hour, turn it out on a dish, pour some Damson sauce round the base, and serve. 1 Milk of almonds is prepared in the following manner :—Remove the skins from eight ounces of sweet almonds and one ounce of bitter almonds, then pound them thoroughly in a mortar, adding occasionally a few drops of water; when well pounded, put them in a basin, add a quart of cold water, mix well together, and allow to stand for about an hour ; the milk may then be drawn off by straining it through a napkin or fine strainer.. THE MODERN COOK 44° Macaroni Cake is prepared in the same way as a vermicelli cake. Semolina Cake This is also made in the same manner as a vermicelli cake, except that it does not require to be parboiled. Sago and tapioca are treated in a similar way. Potato Cake Bake six large potatoes, and when done, rub their pulp through a wire-sieve; put this into a basin, add two ounces of butter, four ounces of sifted sugar, a few drops of vanilla essence, a gill of cream, the yolks of two eggs and the whipped whites of two, and a little salt; work the whole well together, and pour into a buttered mould lined with bread-crumbs; bake the cake for about an hour, and when done, dish up with a fruit sauce poured round the base, made in the following manner :—- Pick half a pound of either currants, raspberries, cherries, damsons, strawberries, or apricots; put them in a stew-pan with three ounces of sifted sugar and half a gill of water; boil the whole down to the consistency of a thick puree, and then rub it through a sieve or tammy. SOUFFLES IN GENERAL Banana Souffle Peel four ripe bananas, slice them and rub through a sieve. Melt one ounce of butter in a stew-pan, stir in three-quarters of an ounce of flour, and cook a little; add one gill of milk, and stir over the fire until it leaves the sides of the pan clean. Remove from the fire and add by degrees three yolks of eggs, beat the mixture well, and stir in the banana pulp, also one ounce of castor sugar, and lastly the stiffly whisked whites of three eggs. Turn into a fire- proof souffle dish, and bake for about thirty minutes. Place the dish on another hot dish, dredge with sugar, and serve quickly. Vanilla Souffle Ingredients : i oz. potato flour, i oz. sugar, i J oz. butter, £ pt. cream or milk, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, and a little salt. Boil the milk or cream. Put the potato flour, sugar, butter, and salt into a stew-pan, and mix the whole well together; then add the milk and the vanilla, and stir over the fire until it boils, when it must be worked with the spoon to make it perfectly smooth; add the yolks of eggs, and set it aside while the whites are being whipped quite firm, and then fold these into the mixture; pour the whole lightly into a greased souffle tin, having a broad band of buttered cartridge-paper round the outside, and set it in the oven to bake:441 SOUFFLES IN GENERAL this will take a little over half an hour. Just before dishing it up, remove the bands of paper, shake some sifted sugar over the top, place it on a souffle dish, and serve immediately in the tin. Note.—Souffles of ground rice, semolina, arrowroot, tapioca, tous- les-mois (a kind of potato flour) should all be prepared as above. Souffles may be flavoured with orange, lemon, cinnamon, orange- flowers, or with any kind of essence or liqueur. Souffle of Rice Ingredients: ij oz. rice, 1 oz. sugar, i£ oz. butter, 3 yolks and 4 whites of eggs, 1 lemon, £ pt. milk, and a little salt. Wash the rice and parboil it in water for five minutes; then put it into a stew-pan with the sugar, milk, and salt, and leave to simmer very gently on a slow fire for about twenty-five minutes, by which time the grains of rice will have become quite soft; the whole should then be well worked with a wooden spoon, adding the butter, and the yolks of eggs, with the rind of the lemon rubbed on sugar, and if the rice be too firm, a little cream also. The whites of eggs, whipped very stiffly, must be then lightly mixed in and poured into the souffle case, baked for about half an hour, and served immediately. Chocolate Souffle This is made by adding one and a half ounces of grated vanilla chocolate to the same kind of preparation directed to be used in making a vanilla souffle (see p. 440). The same number of eggs are also required, but rather less flour should be used, as chocolate contains a certain amount of starch. Coffee Souffle This is made by substituting two tablespoonfuls of coffee essence, dissolved in a little warm water, for the grated chocolate. Ging'er Souffle Prepare an ordinary souffle mixture (see p. 440), and add two ounces of preserved ginger cut up into small dice-like pieces. The vanilla must of course be omitted. Pine=Apple Souffle Follow the directions for making an ordinary souffle (see p. 440), adding three ounces of preserved pine-apple cut up into small pieces; a tablespoonful of the syrup of this should also be added. Souffle of Apricots Remove the stones, and peel six or eight ripe apricots, then put them, together with the kernels, into a stew-pan with three ounces of castor sugar; stir this over the fire, and as soon as the fruit is boiled down to a jam, withdraw it from the fire, and mix it with the usual quantity of preparation for a souffld (see p. 440). The same numberTHE MODERN COOK 442 of eggs are required, and with the exception of the sugar, the same directions should be followed. Note.—Souffles of peaches, nectarines, and all kinds of plums are prepared in the same manner as the above. Souffle of Raspberries Put half a pound of picked raspberries into a small preserving pan with two ounces of castor sugar; stir the whole over the fire until it has boiled for about five minutes, and then rub it through a sieve. Use about a gill of this preparation as directed for making a souffle of apricots. Note.—Souffles of currants, strawberries, or gooseberries are made in the same way. Brown=Bread Souffle a 1’Allemande Put two ounces of brown-bread crumbs into a stew-pan with a gill of cream, one ounce of castor sugar, one ounce of butter, and a little salt, and flavour it with some cinnamon powder and lemon sugar. Stir this over the fire until it boils, then remove it and add the yolks of three eggs; next whip the whites of four eggs very stiffly and mix them in lightly, then pour it into the souffle case and bake it in the usual manner; when done, shake some cinnamon sugar over it, and serve. OMELETS AND PANCAKES Omelette Souffle Put the yolks of four eggs into a large basin, add half an ounce of castor sugar, a dessertspoonful of flour, ditto of orange-flower water (or any other kind of essence or liqueur used for such purposes), and a very little salt; stir these together with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes; then whip the four whites, and mix them in lightly with the batter. Next put one ounce of butter into an omelet pan, and as soon as the butter begins to sputter, pour the whole of the omelet batter into it; set the pan in the oven and bake until brown for about twelve minutes, when it will be ready to send to table. Shake some sugar on the omelet, and serve immediately. Banana Omelet Peel four not overripe bananas, cut them into round slices (not too thin). Melt one ounce of butter in an omelet pan; when hot, put in the bananas and toss over the fire for a few minutes, then sweeten with castor sugar. Break four fresh eggs into a basin, add a tablespoonful of milk and a teaspo.onful of sugar, and beat up well. Melt an ounce of butler in an omelet pan, pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set, then shape into an omelet. Put the prepared banana in the centre, fold in the sides of the omelet, and let it take colour; then turn out on to a hot dish, dredge with sugar, glaze, and serve.443 OMELETS AND PANCAKES Omelette a la Plombiere Pound in a mortar about two ounces of macaroons, beat up eight fresh eggs and add one tablespoonful of cream, half an ounce of castor sugar, a pinch of salt and the pounded macaroons, and mix well. Melt two ounces of butter in a large omelet pan. When hot, stir in the eggs, etc., and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set, then shape quickly into a cushion form. Put three to four table- spoonfuls of apricot marmalade, flavoured with a little maraschino, in the centre of the omelet, fold in, let it take colour and turn out in a large oval dish. Dredge the top with icing sugar, and glaze the surface in a sharp oven or under the salamander, then serve quickly. Sweet Omelet with Jam Four eggs, i tablespoonful cream, i tablespoonful castor sugar, a pinch of salt, i oz. butter, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot or strawberry jam. Break the eggs into a basin, add the cream, half the sugar and a small pinch of salt, beat up well. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, pour in the eggs, and stir over a quick fire till the mixture begins to set. Shape the omelet and let it brown slightly, put the jam in the centre of the omelet, fold in the ends, and turn out on a hot dish ; sprinkle the top with sugar, hold under a hot salamander or under a red-hot shovel for a few seconds, and serve quickly. Burnt=Almond Omelet Cook two ounces of loaf-sugar with half a gill of water to a pale caramel, that is, till it acquires an amber-like colour, not actually brown; put in an ounce of peeled and shredded baked almonds, stir well, and add a quarter of a gill of milk. When dissolved, put it in a basin and incorporate seven well-beaten eggs. Melt in an omelet pan one and a half ounces of butter; when hot, put in the egg mixture and stir over a good fire till the eggs commence to set, then shape the omelet neatly and give it the form of an oval cushion. Let it take colour, and turn on to a hot dish. Sprinkle the surface with castor sugar and brown under a salamander, or else place it in a very hot oven for a few seconds. If liked, a little of the caramel sauce may be reserved and poured round the base of the dish. Peach Omelet Six eggs, 1 tablespoonful cream, 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marma- lade, 3-4 preserved peaches, 1 tablespoonful castor sugar, a pinch of salt, 1 oz. butter, 1 small glass Kirschwasser. Beat up four whole eggs in a basin, add the whites of the other two, and put the two yolks in a small stew-pan. Add the cream, sugar, and a pinch of salt to the eggs in the basin. Melt the butter in an omelet pan, and pour in the eggs. Stir, and cook the omelet in the usual way. Before shaping put the apricot marmalade in the centre, then fold in, let it take colour, and turn on a hot dish; cut444 THE MODERN COOK the peaches in slices and arrange tastefully on top of'the omelet. Put the syrup in the stew-pan with the two yolks, add the Kirschwasser, whisk over the fire long enough to bind, then pour over or round the omelet, and serve quickly. Pancakes, Plain Mix four ounces of flour, a dessertspoonful of orange-flower water, three yolks and one whole egg, one and a half gills of cream, and a very little salt. When milk is used instead of cream, half an ounce of butter should be added, and must be melted previous to its being mixed in with the batter. When about to fry the pancakes, melt about half an ounce of butter or lard in a small stew-pan. Pour in enough batter to cover the bottom of the pan; fry the pancakes on both sides a light-brown colour, pile one upon another on the dish, and serve immediately. Plain pancakes should be eaten with a little lemon juice and some castor sugar. Pancakes a la Celestine Prepare the pancakes as above, and as each is fried, spread some apricot jam upon it, then roll it up, and put on a baking-sheet in the oven; shake some sifted sugar over, brown in the oven, and then dish up the pancakes on a fancy paper, and serve them quite hot. Pancakes Souffles Prepare a gill of souffle mixture (see p. 440) and a gill of pancake batter. Fry the pancakes, and as they are done, spread them over with apricot jam, and pile them up one upon another with a thick layer of souffle mixture in between each pancake. Then bake for about half an hour; sprinkle with castor sugar, and serve immediately. PUDDINGS IN GENERAL Banana Amber Pudding Peel six bananas and mash them up finely into a pulp. Line the edges of a pie-dish with rings of short crust or puff paste. Boil up one pint of milk with two ounces of loaf sugar, and pour over two eggs beaten up. Stir well and add the banana pulp. Mix one ounce of cornflour with a little cold milk, stir this over the fire till thick, and incorporate with the above. Pour into the pie-dish, previously buttered. Whisk stiffly the white of an egg, sweeten with a table- spoonful of castor sugar, and spread it roughly over the top of the pudding, then bake in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Dish up and serve hot. Brown = Bread Pudding a la Gotha Six oz. brown-bread crumbs, 4 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, | pt. whipped cream or milk, some grated lemon rind, a little cinnamon powder, 4 oz. morello cherries, and a little salt.445 PUDDINGS IN GENERAL Mix the bread-crumbs, sugar, yolks of eggs, and whipped cream, lemon, cinnamon, and salt together in a basin; then add the whipped whites of the eggs, and put the whole on one side. Next spread a plain mould with butter, and coat it with brown-bread crumbs; then spread a large spoonful of the preparation at the bottom of the mould, and arrange a layer of cherries (with the stones left in) upon it; cover this with some of the preparation, and upon it place more cherries, and so on until the mould is filled. Put the pudding on a baking-sheet, and then in the oven to bake for about an hour; when done, turn it out of the mould on a dish, pour a puree of Cherry sauce round the base, and serve. In Germany it is customary to eat this kind of pudding as a cake when cold, when it should be entirely covered with sifted sugar, mixed with one-fourth part of cinnamon powder. Cherry Bread Pick the stalks from half a pound of cherries, remove the stones, and pound them in a mortar; then put the pulp in a small preserv- ing pan with a gill of claret or port wine, and two or three ounces of sugar; leave to boil upon the fire, remove the scum as it rises, and after the cherries have boiled for about five minutes, rub the whole through a sieve, and then pour into a silver souffle case. Meanwhile prepare six slices of crumb of bread or French rolls, shaped in the form of eggs with a sharp knife, and fry a light-fawn colour in some clarified butter. Drain on paper and arrange them in rows in the puree of cherries; shake some cinnamon sugar over, put the cherry bread on a baking-sheet in the oven to simmer slowly for about ten minutes, and when done, send to table. Krapfen or German Puffs Ingredients : 8 oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 gill cream, 1 oz. sugar, £ oz. German yeast, a very little salt, with the rind of an orange rubbed on a piece of sugar and the zest then scraped off. First set the sponge, with one-fourth part of the flour and the yeast, in the usual manner, and let it rise in a warm temperature; meanwhile spread the rest of the flour out in the form of a ring, and place the sugar, salt, butter, eggs, and cream in the centre; then work the whole well together with both hands, and knead thoroughly with the knuckles. As soon as the sponge has risen sufficiently, add to the paste, and mix thoroughly, then leave to rise again for a short time. Knead the paste on the slab, and cut up into about a dozen pieces of equal size ; knead these in the form of round balls, place them on sheets of paper, and set to rise in a warm place; when the krapfen have risen, plunge them in some hot lard, and fry them a light colour; drain them on a clean cloth, sprinkle with cinnamon and orange sugar, dish up in a pyramidal form on a napkin, and serve with some warm apricot jam diluted with a little water or syrup.THE MODERN COOK 446 Semolina Pudding a la Baden Ingredients: 2 oz. semolina, ij oz. castor sugar, 1 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 1 pt. milk, 1 tablespoonful orange-flower water, ^ oz. ratafias, and a little salt. Mix the semolina with the sugar, orange-flower water, butter, milk, and salt in a stew-pan; stir this over the fire until it boils, work it perfectly smooth, and keep working the paste over the fire until it comes away from the sides of the stew-pan; then withdraw it from the fire, and gradually mix in the eggs, and also the bruised ratafias. Spread the inside of a plain mould with butter and fill it with the semolina mixture; put the bottom of the mould in a deep stew-pan half filled with hot water, and bake in the oven for about an hour; when done, turn the pudding out on to a dish, pour either a fruit or custard sauce over it, and serve. Dampfnudeln or German Dumplings These are made with the same kind of paste as the krapfen (see p. 445). When the dough is sufficiently risen, put it on a pastry slab, knead into a dozen small rolls, and put these in a deep stew- pan, about an inch apart from each other, with a gill of milk. Bake in the oven a light colour; just before withdrawing them, see that the milk is not absorbed by the dampfnudeln, and let them be glazed over with sugar and again browned in the oven. Dish up on a napkin, and send some Vanilla custard sauce separately to table. Pudding a la Coburg Have ready some baked brioche (see p. 397); cut in circular slices, about an inch less in diameter than the mould intended to be used for the pudding; the slices of brioche must be placed on a dish and soaked in maraschino. The sides of the mould should be spread with butter, and ornamented with dried cherries and candied citron; and previous to placing the pieces of brioche in the mould, spread each with apricot jam. Then fill up the mould with some vanilla custard prepared for the purpose, part of which must, however, be reserved for the sauce. Steam the pudding for about an hour and a quarter, and when done, turn out on a dish, and pour the sauce over it. Pudding a la Fran^aise Ingredients : 2 oz. chopped beef or vegetable marrow, 4 oz. flour, 2 oz. apricot jam, oz. chopped apples, 2 oz. dried cherries, 2 oz. candied orange-peel and citron, oz. sugar, a little grated nut- meg, 2 cloves (pounded), ^ teaspoonful cinnamon powder, the zest of rind of 1 orange on sugar, 2 whole eggs, 1 glass brandy, a little salt, and about 1 gill cream. Put the above ingredients into a large basin, and mix well together; spread a mould with butter, coat with flour, fill it with the pudding, and after tying it up in a cloth, boil it for about four hours. When done, dish up with a German custard sauce made as follows:—PUDDINGS IN GENERAL 447 Put three yolks of eggs into a bain-marie or stew-pan, together with one and a half ounces of castor sugar, one and a half gills of sherry, some orange or lemon peel (rubbed on loaf-sugar), and a very little salt. Whisk this sharply over a very slow fire until it becomes like a light frothy custard. Pudding a la Viennoise Ingredients : 8 oz. brioche or crumb of bread cut up into small dice, i small glass Madeira, the rind of i lemon, i oz. sweet and J oz. bitter almonds pounded, 2 oz. sultana raisins, 1 caramel custard made with 4 yolks of eggs, f pt. milk, 2 oz. burnt sugar, and sweetened with 3 oz. loaf-sugar. Put the brioche, almonds, rind of lemon (rubbed on sugar), and the sultanas into a large basin; pour the Madeira to this, and when it has been absorbed by the brioche, etc., pour the caramel custard on it. Then spread the inside of the mould with butter, decorate it with candied orange-peel, and fill it with the above mixture. Steam the pudding for about an hour and a half, and when done, turn out on a dish, pour some custard or Arrowroot sauce over, and send to table. Cabinet Pudding Butter a plain mould, and ornament the bottom and sides with dried cherries and candied citron or strips of angelica; fill the mould with alternate layers of slices of sponge-cakes and ratafias or macaroons; then fill up with a lemon custard made with four' yolks of eggs, half a pint of milk, two ounces of sugar, a glass of brandy, and the grated rind of a lemon. This custard must not be set, but merely mixed up. Steam the pudding in the usual way for about an hour and a half, and when done, dish up either with Arrow- root sauce or a custard. Chestnut Pudding Bake or boil three dozen chestnuts, rub the pulp through a sieve, and place this in a stew-pan with half a pint of milk, two ounces of butter, three ounces of sugar, a few drops of essence of vanilla, and a very little salt; stir these ingredients over the fire until the prepara- tion thickens and comes away from the sides of the stew-pan. Then remove it from the fire, add four yolks and the whites of four eggs whipped stiffly; pour the pudding mixture into a plain mould, previously spread with butter, and then steam it for about an hour and a half. When the pudding is done, turn it carefully out of the mould on a dish, pour some warm diluted apricot jam over, and serve. Ginger Pudding Ingredients : 6 oz. flour, 2 oz. sugar, 3 eggs, 4 oz. preserved ginger, | pt. milk, 2 oz. butter, a little salt. Put the milk, sugar, butter, and salt into a stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as these begin to simmer, take off the stew-pan, add the flour, and stir the whole together quickly; then put the pan back443 THE MODERN COOK again on the fire, and continue stirring for about five minutes ; with- draw again, and gradually mix in the eggs. The ginger, cut into small pieces, must now be added to the mixture, which must then be poured into a buttered mould. Steam for an hour and a half, and when done, dish up the pudding with a custard sauce made with the syrup from the ginger. Pine-Apple Pudding This is made in the same manner as the above, pine-apple being substituted for ginger. Lemon Pudding Ingredients : The juice and grated rind (rubbed on sugar) of 2 lemons, J pt. milk, 2 oz. bruised ratafias, 3 eggs, half a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon powder, 4 oz. castor sugar, and a very little salt. Mix the above ingredients in a large basin, and whisk all together for about ten minutes. Put a border of puff paste round the edge of a buttered pie-dish, pour the batter into it, strew some shred pistachio kernels on the top, and bake for about half an hour in a moderate oven. When done, shake some sifted sugar over, and serve. Orange Pudding This is made as the above, substituting oranges; double the quantity of oranges may be used, owing to their not containing so much acid as lemons; but the rind of three will suffice for the zest. Bread Pudding, Plain Ingredients : 6 oz. bread-crumbs, 4 oz. sugar, 1 oz. butter, £ pt. milk, the rind of x lemon rubbed on a piece of sugar, 2 yolks of eggs, and 2 whites whipped, and a little salt. Put the bread-crumbs into a basin with the sugar, butter, lemon sugar, and salt; then pour over the milk (boiling), cover and leave to steep for about ten minutes; add the eggs, and mix well together; pour the mixture into a buttered mould or pudding basin. Steam the pudding for about an hour, and when done, dish up with some Arrowroot sauce made as follows:—Mix a dessertspoonful of arrow- root with the same quantity of sugar, half the juice of a lemon, a little nutmeg, and a gill of water, and stir this over the fire until it boils. Apricot Souffle Pudding Melt two ounces of fresh butter in a stew-pan, stir in two ounces of flour (previously dried in the oven and sifted), and cook without allowing it to colour; then add two ounces of castor sugar and one gill of milk, stir till it boils and work till the paste is quite smooth, then allow to cool. Boil up one gill of apricot syrup with half a vanilla pod. Beat up six yolks of eggs, stir these gradually into the pan containing the flour, etc. (panada), remove the vanilla from the syrup and add it also. Whisk the whites of four eggs to a stiff froth ;PUDDINGS IN GENERAL 449 mingle this lightly with the mixture, and pour it, with alternate layers of sliced preserved apricots, into a well-buttered pudding mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam for forty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with fruit sauce. Mousseline Pudding Two oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, 1 oz. flour, vanilla essence, J lemon rind grated, Mousseline sauce. Cream the butter and sugar in a basin, and work in gradually the yolks of eggs, then stir in slowly the flour (sifted). Add the grated lemon rind, a few drops of vanilla essence, and lastly the stiffly whisked whites of eggs; this must be worked lightly into the mixture. Pour it into a well-buttered charlotte mould, butter a paper and place on top. Steam very slowly from one to one and a half hours. When just set, turn out carefully on to a hot dish, pour the Mousseline sauce round the pudding, and send to table quickly. French Prune Pudding One lb. French or Californian prunes, J a lemon, 1 small glass port wine, 1 small piece cinnamon, 4 oz. loaf-sugar, 4 eggs, 1 oz. cornflour, 1 pt. milk. Stew the prunes gently with sufficient water to barely cover, adding also the sugar, port wine, cinnamon, and the thinly cut rind of lemon and its juice. When tender, take out the cinnamon and lemon rind, stone the prunes, and rub them through a sieve. Crack half the stones and chop the kernels, add them to the prune pulp, and let cool a little. Whisk the egg whites to a stiff froth, and stir them carefully with the cornflour into the prune pulp; put this into a buttered souffle dish, dredge with castor sugar, and bake for about thirty minutes in a fairly hot oven. Prepare a custard with the egg yolks and the milk by boiling the latter and adding the eggs; stir over the fire till the liaison is formed. Sweeten to taste and flavour with lemon vanilla. Strain, and serve with the souffle. Chocolate Pudding Six oz. cake-crumbs (preferably sponge-cake), 2 oz. flour, £ tea- spoonful baking powder, 4 oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. butter, 2 oz. castor sugar, 3 eggs, l teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1^ gills milk. Sift the flour into a basin, then add the baking powder and the cake-crumbs. Mix well together, and stir in the milk and chocolate, previously heated. Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs one at a time, and beat up thoroughly. Then stir in lightly the other ingredients, also the vanilla essence, and mix well. Pour the mixture into a well-buttered pudding mould or cake tin, and cover with a buttered paper. Steam gently for one and a half hours; when done, unmould on to a hot dish, and serve with vanilla custard.THE MODERN COOK 45° Queen Pudding Three oz. flour (sifted), i oz. glac£ cherries, 3 oz. castor sugar, 3 oz. fresh butter, 3 eggs, ^ lemon, £ teaspoonful baking powder. Cream the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs one by one and beat up well. Next add the flour; mix well, and stir in the cherries cut up small, the lemon juice, also the finely grated rind, and lastly the baking powder. Put the mixture in buttered pudding moulds and bake for about thirty minutes in a moderate oven. When done, turn out on a hot dish, and serve with Lemon or Cherry sauce poured round the base of the dish. French Peach Pudding Five preserved peaches, 1 gill cream, 2 oz. flour, 2 oz. castor sugar, 4 eggs, the juice and rind of ^ lemon, a pinch of salt, a little butter, £ gill milk. Cut the peaches into small pieces and cook them with a little syrup. Mix the flour with the milk, add a pinch of salt, boil up the cream and mix both together, add the sugar, and stir over the fire until the mixture becomes smooth and leaves the sides and bottom of the stew-pan clean. When sufficiently cooled, add the juice and grated rind of lemon. Separate yolks from the whites of eggs, and work in the yolks one at a time. Whisk whites to a stiff froth and mix in lightly. Butter a pudding mould, garnish the bottom with a layer of peaches, and fill up alternately with a layer of the prepared mixture and the peaches; cover with a buttered paper, and bake in a moderately heated oven for thirty-five minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve with a suitable fruit syrup. Italian Chestnut Pudding Take about two dozen sound chestnuts, cut each with the point of a knife, and plunge them into boiling water; allow them to boil for five minutes, then put them to drain, and remove their shells and skins; the chestnuts must now be cooked in milk till tender, with a small pod of vanilla; the latter must be removed when the chestnuts are rubbed through a wire-sieve. Add half a pint of milk and cream mixed, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, one ounce and a half of fresh butter; stir the whole over the fire for five minutes and allow to cool; add one by one four yolks of eggs and the well-whisked whites of four eggs. Butter a mould and ornament it with glace * cherries and citron peel, pour in the pudding mixture, cover with paper, and steam for one and a half to one and three-quarter hours. When done, turn out the pudding on a hot dish, pour round it a little fruit syrup or apricot pulp, and serve. Rusk Pudding Ingredients : i doz. rusks, 1 plain custard of 4 eggs, 1 pt. milk, 1 oz. sugar, 1 glass maraschino, a little salt, and 4 oz. dried cherries. Spread a plain mould with butter, arrange the cherries round the sides and bottom, dip the rusks in the custard, and arrange them inPUDDINGS IN GENERAL 45i the mould with a layer of raspberry jam between each layer of rusks; fill up the mould with the custard, and steam the pudding in the usual manner. When done, dish up with a German custard sauce. Apple Pudding Peel half-a-dozen large apples, remove the cores and cut up in slices; put ' the apples into a deep stew-pan with two ounces of butter, the rind of one lemon, three ounces of castor sugar, and a gill of apricot jam ; toss the whole over a slow fire until' the apples begin to dissolve, and then set aside to cool. Next line a pudding basin with some light suet crust, fill this with the prepared apples, place a covering of paste on the top, fasten down securely, and steam for about two hours. When the pudding is done, dish up, pour some warm apricot jam over, and serve. Biscuit Pudding a la Prince Albert Ingredients : 6 oz. crumbled Savoy cake, 1 gill cream, the yolks of 4 eggs and the whipped whites of 2, the rind of 1 lemon rubbed on sugar, 4 oz. castor sugar, and a little salt. Pour the cream (boiling) on to the crumbled Savoy cake and let it steep for a few minutes; then add the sugar, eggs, lemon sugar, and salt; mix the whole lightly together, pour the mixture into a buttered mould, and steam the pudding for about an hour and a quarter. When done, dish up with a puree of currants and rasp- berries, or else serve a custard sauce over the pudding. Plum Pudding Ingredients : J lb. raisins, ^ lb. bread-crumbs, J lb. currants, 2 oz. chopped almonds, ^ lb. candied orange, lemon, and citron, f lb. chopped beef suet, 4 oz. flour, ^ lb. moist sugar, 4 eggs, about 1 gill milk, the grated rind of 2 lemons, J oz. nutmeg, cinnamon, and cloves (in powder), 1 glass brandy, and a very little salt. Mix the above ingredients thoroughly together in a large basin several hours before the pudding is to be boiled; pour them into a mould spread with butter, and tie up in a cloth. Boil for four hours and a half; and, when done, dish up with a German custard sauce poured over it. Tapioca Cream Pudding Ingredients : 2 oz. tapioca, 1 pt. milk, 2 oz. sugar, 2 yolks of eggs and 2 whipped whites, the grated rind of 1 lemon, ^ oz. butter, and a little salt. Put the tapioca, sugar, butter, salt, grated lemon, and the milk into a stew-pan, stir this over the fire until it boils; then cover the stew-pan with its lid, and set it on the side of the fire, to continue gently simmering for a quarter of an hour. Then withdraw from the fire, and add the yolks and whites of eggs, pour the preparation into a buttered mould or pudding basin ; steam the pudding for about an hour, and when done, dish up with either a plain Arrow- root or Custard sauce over. Sago or semolina may be prepared in the same manner.THE MODERN COOK 45 2 Note.—In addition to the foregoing, puddings may also be made with every kind of preparation described for making timbales or cakes of rice, vermicelli, macaroni, nouilles, etc. These may be either steamed in a mould or pudding basin, or baked in a pie-dish. JELLIES AND FRUIT DISHES Calf’s = Foot Jelly Split four calf’s feet, break up the bones, and put the whole into a large stew-pan or stock-pot; fill up with about a gallon of cold water, and put it on the fire to boil; remove the scum as it rises to the surface, and when the stock has been thoroughly skimmed, leave it to continue gently boiling for about five hours. The stock must then be strained off into a basin or pan, and set aside in a cool place until it has become firm. The grease should be scraped off the surface with a spoon, and a little boiling water thrown over it in order to wash away any that may remain; it should then be wiped with a clean cloth and put into a stew-pan to melt over the fire. Next add one pound of loaf-sugar, twelve cloves, a stick of cinnamon, the rind and juice of four lemons peeled very thinly and without any of the pith, then the whites and shells of six eggs; whip this well together over the fire, and when it is just upon boiling, add a pint of sherry and half a glass of brandy, stir the jelly with the whisk for a minute or so, and then set the stew-pan by the side of the fire; put on the lid, and leave the jelly to stand by the side of the fire for a quarter of an hour longer to set the eggs. Next pour the jelly into a jelly-bag through which some boiling water has been poured; continue pouring the jelly back again through the bag several times until it runs quite bright and clear; then cover over the stand with a cloth, and leave the jelly to run until the whole has passed through. This kind of jelly may either be served in glasses, or set in moulds embedded in ice; when it has become quite firm, dip the mould in tepid water, wipe it, and turn the jelly out carefully on a dish. Clarification of Calf’s=Foot Jelly Put two quarts of the prepared stock of calf’s feet into a stew- pan with half a pound of sugar, the rind and juice of three lemons; whip four whites of eggs and shells together, with a little water; add this to the stock, and whisk the whole together over the fire until it is just upon boiling; withdraw the pan from the stove, and leave by the side of the fire to continue gently simmering for about ten minutes longer, covered with the lid. The jelly may then be passed through the bag in the usual way, and when it has run through perfectly bright, keep in a cool place until wanted. This kind of foundation or stock jelly, prepared without any decided flavour, may be used for making all kinds of jellies: it will then only be necessary to add, to the quantity required to fill a453 JELLIES AND FRUIT DISHES mould, a gill and a half of any kind of liqueur: and if the jelly be too stiff, a little thin syrup may also be added. It may also be used for making fruit jellies, with the addition of a pint of the filtered juice of currants, raspberries, cherries or strawberries, or half a pint of the clarified infusion syrup of peaches, apricots, or pine-apples. Orange Jelly made with Calf’s=Foot Stock To two quarts of calPs-foot jelly add twelve ounces of. loaf sugar, the juice of two lemons, the rind and juice of eight oranges; put the stew-pan on the fire to melt the stock, and then pour in the whipped whites of two eggs, and continue whisking the jelly on the fire until it begins to simmer. Then leave by the side of the fire, covered with the stew-pan lid, to continue simmering for ten or fifteen minutes: the jelly must then be passed through the bag in the usual way, and just before putting it into the mould, a few drops of prepared cochineal or carmine colouring should be added to give an orange-pink tinge. Note.—Lemon jelly is prepared in the same way as above, substituting lemons for oranges, but adding rather more sugar. Clarified Syrup for Jellies To every half-pound of the finest loaf-sugar add a pint of water; and when the sugar is dissolved, add half the white of an egg whipped up stiffly, whisk the whole well together, set the stew-pan on the fire, and as soon as the syrup begins to boil, leave it by the side of the fire to continue gently boiling until it has thrown up all the scum; remove this as it rises to the surface, and then strain the syrup into a basin, and keep in a cool place for use. Chartreuse of Fruit Line a fluted jelly mould, with a pipe in the centre, with a layer of wine jelly, and decorate the bottom with halves of glacd cherries, grapes, and slices of bananas; cover this with a layer of jelly, and when set or nearly so, put in a layer of fruit, such as peeled and sliced bananas, orange or Tangerine sections (the pips having been previously removed), white and black grapes (from which the seeds have been removed); cover each layer of fruit with jelly, and continue this till the mould is completely filled. The mould should be placed in a pan on a bed of crushed ice. When firm enough, dip the mould in tepid water for a few seconds, and unmould the shape on to a cold dish. Fill the centre with stiffly whipped slightly sweetened cream. The dish is then ready for serving. Orange Jelly k l’Anglaise Rub the rind of four oranges upon four ounces of the best loaf- sugar and put this into a basin ; then squeeze the juice from the oranges and one lemon, and add this to the sugar. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass or gelatine in a pint of water with the juice and sugar in a sugar-boiler, add six drops of prepared cochineal or carmine colouring,454 THE MODERN COOK and stir the whole over the fire till the jelly becomes tepid ; then strain it into a basin, and when it has become quite cold and is commencing to set on the surface and sides of the basin, stir it well together, and pour it into a mould surrounded with crushed ice. When the jelly is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it with a cloth, and turn out carefully on a dish. Lemon Jelly a l’Anglaise This is prepared in the same way as above, substituting lemons for oranges ; it will be necessary, however, to add four more ounces of sugar because of the acidity of the lemons. Orange Jelly a la Frangaise Peel off the rind from six oranges as thin as possible, and put it into a basin. Then make a syrup as follows:—Clarify half a pound of the finest loaf-sugar with a pint of water and half the white of an egg, and strain it on to the rind ; cover the basin down with a sheet of paper twisted tightly round the edges to prevent the essence in the orange rind from escaping. Extract the juice from the oranges and one lemon (by pressure) into a basin, and remove the pips. Strain the infusion into a basin, add the juice, half an ounce of isinglass and six drops of prepared cochineal or carmine colouring; stir these together, and then pour the jelly into a mould and set in crushed ice. Note.—Lemon jelly a la Frangaise is prepared in the same manner as above, except that the cochineal must be omitted, and four ounces of sugar added because of the acidity of the lemons. Pomegranate Jelly Take out the seeds from four ripe pomegranates, bruise the fruit in a basin with six ounces of castor sugar and a gill of ivater, and strain through a fine cloth. Then mix the juice of the pomegranates with half an ounce of isinglass, six drops of cochineal or carmine, and three-quarters of a pint of thin clarified syrup. Set a jelly mould in crushed ice, and fill with alternate layers of jelly and the bright pips of this fruit. Note.—A glass of noyau or maraschino may be added, if desired. Pine=Apple Jelly Peel a small pine-apple, cut it into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, and put these into a basin. Clarify half a pound of loaf- sugar with a pint of water, the juice of a lemon, and half the white of an egg whipped stiffly. Strain the syrup on to the pine-apple, then cover it down with a sheet of paper twisted round the basin, and let the infusion stand for several hours in order to extract the flavour. When about to mix the jelly, strain the syrup into a basin and put the pieces of pine-apple to drain upon a sieve; add one ounce of isinglass to the pine-apple syrup, and pour the jelly into a mould surrounded with crushed ice.JELLIES AND FRUIT DISHES 455 Jellied Banana Mould Coat the inside of a quart-size jelly mould with a thin layer of lemon jelly, decorate the bottom and sides with round slices of ripe bananas, the centre of which should be stamped out, and the cavities filled with angelica or glace cherries. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a pint of water for ten minutes, then put it in a stew-pan with three ounces of loaf-sugar, the thin rind of half a lemon and its juice; stir over the fire until dissolved and let boil for ten minutes, then strain into a basin, and stir in three tablespoonfuls of banana pulp and a glass of sherry. When sufficiently cool, add half a pint of whipped cream, and whisk for a few minutes. Lastly, mix in three thinly sliced ripe bananas. Turn this into the prepared mould, and place in the cool to set. Un- mould, and serve on a cold dish. Currant and Raspberry Jelly Pick the stalks from half a pound of red currants and half a pound of raspberries, put these into a basin with six ounces of castor sugar and a gill of cold water; mash them thoroughly by squeezing them with the back part of the bowl of a wooden spoon against the sides of the basin, then strain through a jelly-bag, pouring it back into the bag until it runs perfectly bright; add half a pint of clarified syrup and one ounce of isinglass to the juice, and pour the jelly into a mould placed in rough ice to receive it. Note.—This kind of jelly serves for the foundation of several others; for instance, it may be garnished with a Macedoine of fruits, with white raspberries, with currants, strawberries, peaches, or cherries. Strawberry Jelly Pick the stalks from half a pound of scarlet strawberries, put these into a basin, and then pour one pint of clarified boiling syrup and half a pint of red-currant juice on to them; cover them down with a sheet of paper, tightly twisted round the edges of the basin, and allow the infusion to stand in a cool place until it becomes cold; then mix it with one ounce of dissolved gelatine, and set the jelly in a mould, surrounded by crushed ice. Note.—This jelly should be garnished with strawberries before sending to table. Cherry Jelly Pick the stalks from half a pound of cherries and a handful of red currants, and pound them in the mortar; then put them in a small preserving pan with half a pound of fine loaf-sugar and a pint of water; set this to boil on the fire for about five minutes, removing the scum as it rises to the surface: add one ounce of sheet gelatine and pour into a mould set in ice. The jelly may be garnished with cherries from which the stones have been removed. Mulberry Jelly This is prepared in the same way as strawberry jelly (see above).456 THE MODERN COOK Macedoine of Fruits This may be made with every kind of jelly, mixed with a variety of the most delicate fruits in season : these should be arranged with taste, so as to show their forms and colours to the best advantage. The most appropriate fruits are peaches, nectarines, apricots, all kinds of plums, strawberries, raspberries, mulberries, red, white, and black currants, cherries, pears, oranges, pomegranates, grapes, etc. Orange Jelly garnished with Quarters of Oranges Peel six oranges with a sharp knife, leaving the transparent pulp quite bare; divide each into six, cutting the orange lengthwise, thus giving an angular form to the pieces; put these into a small pre- serving pan with a pint of clarified syrup, and boil up on the fire for not more that two minutes, then pour the pieces of oranges and their syrup into a basin and put on one side in a cool place. Prepare about a pint of orange jelly as directed in previous recipes, using the syrup from the pieces of oranges, which must be drained upon a sieve for that purpose. Next set a plain mould in some crushed ice, and proceed to garnish it with the pieces of oranges and the jelly, first pouring a little jelly on the bottom of the mould; then, when the jelly is set, arrange a layer of the pieces of oranges upon it in close circular order, one resting upon another, pour sufficient jelly upon these to cover the layer, and when this has become firm, place another layer of oranges upon it, and so on, until the mould is filled. Maraschino Jelly To one pint of clarified syrup add one ounce of dissolved gelatine, the juice of two lemons, and a gill and a half of genuine maraschino; pour this into a jelly mould ready set in crushed ice. Note.—Jellies flavoured with noyau, Kirschwasser, Dantzic brandy, cedratti, and all other kinds of liqueurs, when made with gelatine or isinglass, are prepared as the above. Variegated Jelly a la Victoria Prepare some jelly with Dantzic brandy (sometimes named “gold- and-silver water ”). Parboil and remove the skin from three ounces of pistachios, and shred each kernel into six strips. Set a jelly mould in some crushed ice, pour a little of the jelly into the bottom of the mould, and then sprinkle some of the prepared pistachios in it; when this has become firm, pour in a little more of the jelly and sprinkle a few more pistachios; as these layers become set, repeat the process until the mould is filled, and leave the jelly to remain in the ice until quite firm. Panachee Jelly This may be prepared with any kind of light-coloured jelly, which must be divided into two equal parts: add a few drops of carmine to one half, and leave the remainder plain. Then set the mould in ice, pour enough of the pink jelly into the mould to reach about aJELLIES AND FRUIT DISHES 457 quarter of an inch up the sides, and when this has become set, pour as much of the plain jelly upon it; when this has set, repeat another layer of the pink jelly, and go on alternating the different coloured layers until the mould is filled. The design for this kind of jelly may be varied, according to taste, as follows :— Fill two small plain moulds w'ith different coloured jelly, such as pink and white noyau, or amber and very light-pink orange jelly, and when these are firm, turn the jellies out of their respective moulds. Next set a plain mould in ice, and then cut the different coloured jellies into strips, or any kind of fancy-shaped ornaments, which must be so managed as to admit of their being fitted into each other, thus entirely covering the bottom of the mould with the design so formed; a little of the jelly must first be poured at the bottom of the mould to cause the decoration to stick firmly. The sides of the mould should then be ornamented by placing alternate strips of the different jellies in a perpendicular position, and these must first be dipped in a little liquid jelly. The mould being thus lined, the hollow may be filled up with either a Macedoine jelly of fruits, with any kind of cream, or with the remainder of the jelly so arranged as to look like cut marble. Russian Jelly Put about two-thirds of either of the above kinds of jelly into a basin, set in ice, then whip the rest of the jelly with a whisk until it becomes frothy and begins to thicken; it must then be immediately poured into a mould, and kept on ice until required. Punch Jelly Put one and a half pints of the prepared stock from four calf’s feet into a stew-pan to melt on the fire; then withdraw it, and add the following ingredients : six ounces of loaf-sugar, the rind and juice of two lemons and two oranges, half a nutmeg, four cloves, half a stick of cinnamon, a gill of rum, and a glass of brandy. Stir these well together, then add two whites of eggs and shells whisked up, and continue whisking the punch over a brisk fire until it begins to simmer, then leave by the side of the fire and cover the stew-pan; about ten minutes after, pour the jelly into a flannel bag, previously heated by pouring through hot water, keep pouring the jelly back into the bag until it becomes quite clear and bright, and when the whole has run through, set in ice in the usual way. Oranges filled with Jelly Choose half-a-dozen oranges without specks on the rind, make a hole at the stalk end with a circular tin cutter, about half an inch in diameter, and then use the handle of a small teaspoon to remove all the pulp and loose pith from the interior; then soak the oranges in cold water for about an hour, push the spoon through the hole and scrape the insides smooth, rinse again in cold water and drain on a cloth. Next stop up any holes that may have been made in themTHE MODERN COOK 458 while scooping out the pulp, and set the oranges on ice contained in a deep stew-pan ; fill three of them with bright-pink orange jelly, and the remainder with plain jelly. When the jelly has become firm, wipe the oranges with a clean cloth, cut each into four quarters, dish up tastefully on an ornamental stand, and send to table. Note.—Lemons may be prepared in the same way as above. Lemons filled with Jelly a la Bellevue These are prepared as directed in the preceding recipe, but are afterwards filled with alternate layers of lemon jelly and blanc-mange. They should be cut up in the same way as the oranges. Pine = AppIe Cream a la Suisse Half-pint double cream, 2 oz. vanilla sugar, 2-3 slices fresh pine- apple, | lb. nouille paste made with 6 oz. flour, 1 oz. butter, a pinch of salt, and 2 yolks of eggs. Work the paste thoroughly on a marble slab, then roll it out as thinly as possible and cut it into strips about half an inch wide. Plunge them into hot clarified butter, and fry to a golden colour. Take up and drain the fried paste strips on a cloth or paper, dredge with vanilla sugar whilst hot. Whip the cream till quite stiff; to this add the pine-apple, cut into small dice, and sweeten with an ounce of vanilla sugar. Dress the cream neatly in the centre of a round dish, and range the fried nouilles round its base, which should be hot. Serve immediately. Peaches a la Reine Six fine ripe peaches, i| gills syrup, | glass Kirsch, 1 flat Genoese cake, | pint strawberry cream ice, angelica and glace cherries, and whipped cream for garnish. Skin the peaches carefully, cut them in halves, remove the stones, and poach them in the syrup for a few minutes. Add the Kirsch and a little liquid carmine or cochineal to give the fruit a rose tint. Take up the peaches and drain them on a sieve. Cut out as many rounds of Genoese cake as there are halves of peaches, scoop out the centre of each a little to receive the ice; sprinkle them with syrup and keep on the ice till required. Put a tablespoonful of strawberry ice in the centre of each round of cake, upon this place half a peach, and put them for some time in a souffle ice-box charged with crushed ice and salt. When required for table, dish up in a circle, garnish quickly with halves of cherries and strips of angelica and whipped cream. Pears k la Florentine Peel thinly about six small cooking pears, cut them in halves, core, and cook till tender in a syrup made with one gill of water and four ounces of loaf-sugar; flavour the syrup with lemon rind, clove, or cinnamon. Drain the fruit on a sieve, reduce the syrup a little,CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES 459 then strain and let it get cold. Boil up half a pint of milk with a small piece of vanilla pod, stir in two ounces of fine semolina, and cook slowly for about twenty-five minutes; then add two ounces of castor sugar and a little cream. Remove the vanilla pod, next put the cooked semolina in a plated souffle dish, place it on the ice to get quite cold. Reduce half the pear syrup with two to three tablespoonfuls of apricot marmalade, flavour it with a small glass of maraschino, and let it get cold. Range the cooked cold pears neatly in the souffle dish on top of the semolina cream. Decorate with halves of glace cherries and slices of angelica. Sauce over with the prepared Apricot sauce, and send to table—to be served cold. CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES Banana Blanc = mange Boil up three-quarters of a pint of milk with two ounces of loaf- sugar in a stew-pan. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in a little water, dissolve, and strain into the milk. Mix half an ounce of cornflour with a gill of milk and stir over the fire till thick, then pour on the above and cook for a few minutes whilst stirring. Strain, and let cool, then stir in a gill of whipped cream, ten drops of vanilla essence, and four ripe bananas peeled and rubbed through a sieve. Turn into a jelly mould and let set. Unmould the shape on to a cold dish, and serve with preserved fruit. Almond Blanc=mang,e Blanch six ounces of sweet and two ounces of bitter almonds. Drain them on a sieve, remove the skins, and wash them in cold water, then pound them in a mortar with two ounces of sugar. Put the paste in a basin with four ounces of loaf-sugar and one and a half pints of water. Cover over the basin, and stand in a cool place, to extract the flavour of the almonds. Then strain off the liquid through a cloth. Add three-quarters of an ounce of leaf gelatine, dissolved in half a gill of water, to the milk of almonds, pour the blanc-mange into a mould set on ice, and when quite firm, turn out carefully, after having first dipped the mould in warm water. Maraschino Bavarian Cream Whip half a pint of double cream. Add it to a gill of good maraschino, the juice of a lemon, four ounces of castor sugar, and half an ounce of sheet gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Mix these well together, and pour into a mould, previously very slightly oiled inside with oil of sweet almonds. Set the cream on ice, and when it has become firm, turn out on a dish, without dipping first in warm water. This kind of cream may be flavoured with all kinds of liqueurs, also with the essences of orange, lemon, orange- flowers, vanilla, roses, and bitter almonds.460 THE MODERN COOK Strawberry Bavarian Cream Pick the stalks from a pint of ripe strawberries, and mash them in a basin with three or four ounces of castor sugar ; rub this through a sieve, and mix it with a pint of whipped cream and half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water; pour the cream into a mould previously oiled with oil of sweet almonds, set it on ice, and when firm, turn out on a dish. Note.—Raspberries, mulberries, currants, and raspberries may be prepared in the same way by following the above directions. Brown-Bread Cream Prepare four ounces of bread-crumbs obtained from a stale wholemeal loaf; fry these in one ounce of butter till crisp, put them into a basin, and pour over three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk. Rasp in the rind of half a lemon, and add three ounces of castor sugar and a few drops of vanilla essence. Soak and dissolve in a little milk three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine; strain this into the above mixture and stir wTell. Whip up half a pint of cream and mix with the above when almost cold. Pour into a jelly or pudding mould, and put it in a cool place to set. When required for table, dip the mould into lukewarm water for a few seconds, wipe it quickly with a cloth, and turn out on to a cold dish. Apricot Bavarian Cream Split six or eight ripe apricots, and remove the stones; put the pieces in a small preserving pan with three ounces of castor sugar and a gill of water, then stir them on the fire and let them boil until the fruit is entirely dissolved; this purde must then be rubbed through a clean hair-sieve into a basin, and mixed with a pint of whipped cream and three-quarters of an ounce of sheet gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Pour the cream into an oiled mould, and set on ice in the usual way. This sort of cream may be also prepared with all kinds of plums instead of apricots. Coffee Cream Mix half a pint of boiling milk with half a gill of strong coffee or coffee essence. Strain this into a sauce-pan containing three yolks of eggs, three ounces of sugar, and half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Stir the custard over the fire until it begins to thicken, and when the yolks of eggs are sufficiently set, strain the custard into a basin. Mix half a pint of whipped cream in with this; when cool, pour the whole into a mould ready set on ice, and when the cream has become firm, dip the mould in warm water, turn out the cream, and serve. Chocolate Cream Grate four ounces of vanilla chocolate, put this into a stew-pan with three ounces of sugar, four yolks of eggs, and a pint of milk. Stir the whole over the fire until the yolks of eggs are sufficiently461 CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES set without allowing them to curdle, strain the cream into a basin ; add half a pint of whipped cream and three-quarters of an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Mix the whole well together, and pour into a mould placed on ice to receive it. Burnt Cream Put two ounces of castor sugar and half a gill of water into a sauce-pan. Stir these over a slow fire until the sugar begins to turn a rather light-brown colour. Add half a pint of milk, four ounces of sugar, and four yolks of eggs, and stir over the fire until the eggs are set. Flavour with lemon juice, strain, and when cool mix in half a pint of whipped cream and half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Pour the cream into a mould, and set on ice. Orange=FIower Cream Put two ounces of candied orange-flowers into a stew-pan with two ounces of castor sugar and half a pint of milk; stir these over a slow fire until the sugar is melted, adding three ounces of sugar mixed with four yolks of eggs and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water. Stir this preparation over the fire to set the yolks of eggs; add three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine, dissolved in half a gill of water, and half a pint of stiffly whipped cream ; mix well together, and then pour the cream into a mould set on ice. Note.—The flavouring of this kind of cream may be varied accord- ing to taste, by substituting lemon, orange, vanilla, cinnamon and lemon, or any other kind of essence or liqueur, for the above. Pistachio Cream Blanch three ounces of pistachio kernels for two minutes in boiling water; remove the skin, wash and wipe the kernels, and pound them in a mortar with three ounces of sugar and a dessert- spoonful of orange-flower water; rub the whole through a fine hair- sieve into a basin. Add to the pounded pistachios a few drops of green extract of spinach (see p. 74), half a pint of whipped cream, half a pint of milk, and half an ounce of gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. Mix well together, pour the cream into an oiled mould, and then set it on ice in the usual way. Italian Cream Put four yolks of eggs into a stew-pan with two ounces of sugar, the grated rind of an orange, a small stick of cinnamon, a wine-glass- ful of curagao, and half a pint of milk. Stir this over the fire, in order to set the yolks of eggs, and then add three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water. When cool, add half a pint of whipped cream, and after having well mixed the whole together, pour it into a mould placed on ice to receive it. Russian Charlotte Trim about twelve or fourteen finger-biscuits perfectly straight, so as to make them fit closely to one another, and line the bottomTHE MODERN COOK 462 and sides of a plain mould with these; then fill the interior of the charlotte with any of the above creams. The same kinds of fruit as are used for making a Macedoine jelly may be added to the cream. Celestina Strawberry Cream Fix a jelly mould or plain charlotte mould in some coarse ice. Line the bottom and sides of the mould with picked strawberries, which must first be dipped in .some liquid jelly; then fill the interior of this kind of charlotte with some strawberry cream prepared for the purpose. Banana and Macaroon Custard Crush finely half-a-dozen macaroons, put them in a pie-dish, and pour over a glass of sherry or marsala. Boil up one pint of milk sweetened with one tablespoonful of castor sugar. Pour this slowly on to four beaten yolks of eggs, return to the pan, and stir over the fire until the custard begins to bind, i.e. thicken, then stir in the soaked macaroons and the pulp of four ripe bananas. Allow to cool a little, and pour it into a glass dish. Decorate the top with strips of angelica and halves of glace cherries. Banana and Tapioca Sponge Peel and slice six not overripe bananas, put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of loaf-sugar and one gill of water, and cook for about ten minutes, then add the juice of half a lemon and rub through a sieve. Boil up one pint of milk and stir in two ounces of very fine tapioca. Sweeten to taste and cook whilst stirring for about twenty minutes. To this add the banana pulp, reheat, and stir or fold in the stiffly whisked whites of two eggs. Stir till nearly cold, then pour into a glass dish, pile up high, and serve cold. This dish is equally nice if served hot. Some whipped cream, slightly sweetened, served with this dish, makes an excellent accompaniment. Cream a la Romaine Blanch three ounces of sweet almonds with one ounce of bitter almonds, and when peeled, washed, and wiped dry, chop rather finely. Next place them in a sugar-boiler and stir them over the fire with a wooden spoon until they have acquired a light-brown colour, then add the almonds to a pint of milk that has been kept boiling for the purpose ; to this add four ounces of sugar and four yolks of eggs, and stir the whole quickly over the fire until the yolks are set. Then pass through a fine sieve, when the mixture will resemble a light fawn-coloured cream. Dissolve three-quarters of an ounce of gelatine in half a gill of water, and strain it to half a pint of whipped cream. Pour the cream into a mould, and set on ice as usual. Cream a la Chateaubriand Set a jelly mould in ice, and then proceed to ornament the bottom and sides with blanched almonds that have been split and soaked to whiten them, each being first dipped in some rather strongCREAMS AND CHARLOTTES 463 and perfectly colourless jelly, previous to being stuck to the sides of the mould. When the mould is thus ornamented, pour some of the same jelly into it, and by gently and gradually moving the mould round (side-ways) in the ice, cause the jelly to form a thin coating over the almonds. When the jelly is firm, make another coating, about the third of an inch thick, with some pistachio cream (see p. 461); and when this is firmly set, fill up the cavity with some cream h la Romaine (see p. 462). Note.—An infinite variety of creams, usually designated “en surprise,” may be thus produced by using two different preparations of different creams, such as currant and orange-flower, apricot and vanilla, peach and noyau, chocolate and white coffee, etc. Currant and Raspberry Transparent Cheese Pick the stalks from half a pint of ripe red currants and one pint of raspberries; put these into a small preserving pan with four or five ounces of castor sugar and a gill of water; stir the whole over the fire, and keep it boiling for about five minutes; remove the scum as it rises to the surface, and then rub the whole through a hair-sieve into a large basin; add half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water, and then pour it into a jelly mould set on ice. When this kind of cheese is set firm, dip the mould in warm water, wipe it, and turn the cheese out on a dish; fill the well or cylinder with some stiffly whipped cream, and serve. Apricot Cheese a la Chantilly Remove the stones from twelve ripe apricots, and put them into a small preserving pan with six ounces of loaf-sugar and a gill of water. Stir over a brisk fire until the whole of the fruit is entirely dissolved; then rub it through a hair-sieve into a large basin, add half an ounce of leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of water, and fill a jelly mould (ready set on ice) with the preparation. When the cheese is set firm, turn it out on a dish, and fill the centre with whipped cream. Note.—These fruit cheeses may be made of every kind of fruit already directed to be used for both jellies and creams, and also with pears, apples, and quinces. Apple Charlotte No. 1 Prepare some apple marmalade as follows:—Peel, core, and slice up two pounds of apples, and place in a stew-pan with four ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, and some lemon-peel and cinnamon tied together; moisten with a little water, place the lid on the stew- pan, and leave the apples to boil until reduced to a puree. Line a plain round charlotte mould at the bottom with small thin circular pieces of bread, dipped in clarified butter and placed so as to overlap each other until the bottom of the mould is well covered. Next cut some oblong squares of thin bread, also dipped in clarified butter, and arrange these against the sides of the mould overlapping each other—in order that they may hold firmly. Fill the cavity with464 THE MODERN COOK the apple marmalade, cover in the top with a thin circular piece of bread dipped in butter, place the charlotte on a baking-sheet, and bake it in a rather quick oven until nicely browned; when done, turn it out on to a dish, glaze it on the top with sifted sugar, and brown for a few minutes in the oven; pour some diluted apricot jam round the base, and serve. Apple Charlotte No. 2 The apples in this case must be cut up thinly and placed in a stew-pan containing one and a half ounces of melted butter, four ounces of castor sugar, the grated rind of a lemon, and a pinch of cinnamon powder; toss the whole over the fire until the apples begin to melt; then add a quarter of a pound of apricot jam, toss the whole gently together, and place this preparation in the centre of a charlotte mould, lined as directed in the last recipe. Bake in the same manner. Charlotte a la Parisienne First bake a thin sheet of Genoese mixture, and when this has become thoroughly cold, proceed to cut it out into oblong squares; also some half-moon or crescent shapes of an equal size, in order that these may closely fit in with each other, so as to cover the bottom of a charlotte mould; a circular piece must also be prepared, with which to finish the centre. All these pieces must be glazed over with icing prepared in two colours—one half being pink, amber, green, or chocolate, while the other half is to be white. With the above line the mould, and then fill the centre with any kind of cream described from p. 459 onwards. Pear Charlotte a TAllemande Peel, quarter, and core two pounds of baking pears; stew them in half a pint of water with four to six ounces of sugar, some lemon- peel, and cinnamon, until done. The pears must then be drained, and when comparatively dry, must be tossed in a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of red-plum or damson jam, used to fill in the centre of a bread-lined charlotte mould, and then baked; and, on the charlotte being dished up, some honey, diluted with orange- flower water (warm), may be poured round the base before the dish is sent to table. Peach Charlotte a la Fran^aise Put about two pounds of not overripe peaches, cut into quarters, skinned, and the kernels taken from the stones, in a stew-pan with a quarter of a pound of peach marmalade; toss the whole over the fire until the pieces of peach are just barely warmed through; then with this preparation fill a lined charlotte mould—brioche being used for the purpose instead of bread. When this charlotte is sent to table, some currant jelly, diluted with a glass of noyau, should be poured round the base of the dish before serving.CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES 465 Apricot Charlotte This is prepared in the same manner as the above, substituting apricots for peaches, and apricot marmalade for peach ditto; and, when the charlotte is turned out on to its dish, pour some honey, diluted with a liqueur called Ratafia d’abricots, round the base, and serve. Peach Croutes With the remains of Brioche, Compiegne, Kouglatiff, or Savarin cakes, cut out some oblong shapes, sugar over, and brown in the oven; then spread each with some peach jam, and proceed to dish up these fingers, each resting upon the other in the form of a high wreath; on the top of this some halves of peaches (previously boiled for about three minutes in syrup) must be arranged; and, having filled the hollow centre of the entremet with whipped cream, stick a feather of green angelica at the summit, decorate the pieces of peach with preserved cherries, raspberries, strawberries, or currant jelly; pour some maraschino over the crusts and round the base, and serve. Peaches a la Richelieu Boil three ounces of rice in a pint of milk with two ounces of sugar, one ounce of butter, a few drops of vanilla, and a pinch of salt. Work the whole together with a wooden spoon, and proceed to form with some of the rice a circular base about two inches high in the inner part of the dish. On the outer part of this base dress some peaches, prepared as for a compote, in a thick circle, each over- lapping the other; fill the centre of these with a piece of the prepared rice about three inches high, and upon this eminence build up a pyramid of peaches. Round the base of the entremet place a border of preserved greengages; stick a plume made of angelica on the summit, and finish by pouring some vanilla liqueur round the base. Supreme of Fruits a la Victoria Prepare some Genoese cake about an inch thick, and out of this cut three or four graduated circular pieces, so that when stuck one upon the other with some kind of fruit jam in between, a kind of pyramid will be formed. Then arrange upon this elevation rows of either peaches, apricots, pears, or apples prepared as for compotes, finishing at the summit with a vase or cup formed out of apple or pear, and filled with a Macedoine of fruits. Mask the rows of fruit with some apricot jam diluted with maraschino; and with a forcing bag and pipe filled with whipped cream ornament the base of the entremet in wave-like fashion, and upon these place some plumed pieces of green angelica. Croquettes of Pears Peel and shape about six or eight middle-sized pears of good quality, and gently simmer them in a little syrup until done. Prepare 2 HTHE MODERN COOK 466 some rice as for a rice cake, which must be made rather stiff, and packed into a plain border mould ; when this is done, turn out the border on to its dish, and arrange the pears upright thereon in a circular row, and masked all over with diluted apricot jam ; on the stalk end place a Mirabelle plum, and through this a piece of green angelica, so as to form the stalk ; fill the centre with some of the rice (reserved for this purpose), mixed with an equal quantity of whipped cream, at the summit of which a plume of green angelica must be stuck. Iced Souffle with Maraschino Ingredients : ^ pt. clarified syrup, 4 yolks of eggs and 2 whole eggs, 1 large wine-glassful maraschino. Mix the whole of the ingredients in a basin; then pour the preparation into an egg-bowl that has been previously warmed with hot water and wiped dry; whisk the souffle briskly over moderate heat until it resembles a well-prepared firm sponge-cake batter, then add about half an ounce of dissolved gelatine. Next fill a souffle dish-lining with the whisked preparation to an inch or two above the rim, and secure a band of stout paper round the case with string to prevent the souffle from flowing over. Next put the souffle in a circular tin box with a tight-fitting lid and set the box on crushed ice mixed with freezing salt, a wet cloth being placed over the top; leave it to remain thus in ice for about three hours before it is served. Before sending the souffle to table, remove the band of paper, and sift some macaroon powder or grated chocolate over the surface in order to give it the appearance of a baked souffle. Iced Souffle au Cafe This is prepared in exactly the same manner as the above, sub- stituting either an infusion of coffee made with milk or a small cup of very strong coffee, made in the ordinary way, for the maraschino. These souffles may be greatly varied by altering the flavour, using for that purpose any kind of liqueur, orange-flower water, vanilla, orange, lemon, etc. Biscuits daces The preparations described in the preceding recipes serve equally for this purpose—small, square, oblong, or round paper cases being filled with the same, placed in a tin or zinc box made expressly for such purposes, and then set on ice until wanted for the table. La Spongada di Roma Ingredients : i pt. clarified syrup, 2 oz. dissolved chocolate, I tablespoonful vanilla syrup, an equal quantity cinnamon sugar, II oz. shred pistachios, 2 oz. Diavolini or ginger comfits, 2 or 3 whites of eggs. Mix together the syrup, dissolved chocolate, whites of eggs, and vanilla and cinnamon sugars; and, when these are well mixed, strain through a sieve, and pour into the ice-cave previously set with ice,467 CREAMS AND CHARLOTTES etc., in a pail for the purpose. Next hold the ice-cave with the left hand while the spongada is being at the same time worked with a spatula held in the right hand, until it has become larger by entangling air into the mixture. When the spongada has become firm, and at the same time light, mix in lightly the ginger comfits and the shred pistachios; and immediately after, put the spongada into any kind of iced pudding mould; and after it has been left on the ice for about three hours, turn the spongada carefully out upon a dish with a folded napkin, and serve. Spongada di Toledo Ingredients : J pt. milk of almonds (see p. 439), h pt. strong clarified syrup, 1 wine-glassful Kirschwasser, 2 or 3 whites of eggs, 2 oz. burnt almonds slightly bruised, and 1 gill cream whipped. Mix the milk of almonds, syrup, whites of eggs, and Kirsch- wasser well together, and strain them through a sieve into an ice-cave ready set on ice. Work this as directed in the preceding recipe, and when it has increased to twice its original quantity, mix in lightly the bruised burnt almonds and the whipped cream. Mould as before. Mince=Meat Wash and dry one and a quarter pounds of currants, and stone one pound of raisins ; cut up a quarter of a pound of candied citron, a quarter of a pound of candied lemon, and a quarter of a pound of orange-peel into shreds or very small dice; remove the skin, and then chop one pound of fresh beef-suet, and place this with the currants and the candied peel in an earthen pan; next chop the raisins with six large peeled apples, and add them to the other ingredients. Trim away all the sinewy parts from half a pound of roasted sirloin of beef, and chop all the lean of the meat quite fine. To the above must now be added three-quarters of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of ground spice,—consisting of nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon in equal proportions,—with the grated rind and juice of two lemons; the whole must then be thoroughly mixed together, and pressed down to a level in the pan. A quarter of a pint of brandy, and a like quantity of Madeira, sherry, or port should be poured into the mince-meat. Put the lid on the pan, place a cloth over it, and tie it down close so as to exclude the air as much as possible, and also to prevent the evaporation of the brandy, etc. The mince-meat should be kept in a cool place, and will be fit for use a fortnight after it is made. Lemon Mince-Meat Boil two lemons till quite tender, then pound them in a mortar or chop them up while warm, adding to them half a pound of castor sugar ; let this stand till next day, then add half a pound of suet, half a pound of currants, half a pound of raisins chopped, a little brandy, a quarter of an ounce of mixed spice, and port wine to taste —say a gill of brandy and wine together.463 THE MODERN COOK Mince-Meat a la Roy ale To equal proportions of roast beef, raisins, currants, suet, candied peel, spices, and sugar, add a proportionate weight of stewed pears and preserved ginger, the grated rind of four oranges and lemons, and also their juice, a glass of old rum, a glass of brandy, and a glass of old port. AUXILIARY RECIPES Brussels Sprouts Soup One and a half pounds Brussels sprouts, 3 pts. good stock, 1 gill cream, 1 tablespoonful Brown & Poison’s cornflour, a small piece of soda, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Wash and trim the sprouts, cook them till tender in salted water containing a very small piece of soda (to preserve the colour), drain well, and rub through a fine sieve. Put the puree in a stew-pan with the stock and the cornflour—previously mixed with a little cold stock—boil up, and let simmer for ten minutes; take off the scum, season to taste, add the cream. Keep hot until wanted for table, but on no account let the soup boil again after the cream is once added. Tomato Soup One lb. fresh or preserved tomatoes, fish-bones and trimmings, 1^ oz. flour, 2 oz. butter, ^ pt. milk, 1 onion, 1 small blade of mace, 3 cloves, 1 bouquet garni, 1 tablespoonful crushed tapioca, pepper, and salt. Chop up the fish-bones, put them together with the trimmings in a stew-pan, add about three pints of water, the onion (peeled and stuck with the cloves), the mace, and bouquet; let it boil, skim, and simmer for about half an hour. Cut the tomatoes into slices, melt the butter in a stew-pan, broil them over a bright fire. Strain the fish stock into this, stir the milk into the flour and put with the soup. Stir until it begins to boil, skim, and cook slowly for half an hour. Season with pepper and salt. Rub through a fine sieve, boil again, stir in the tapioca, let simmer for another ten minutes, and serve. Cucumber Cream Soup Three large cucumbers, 3 oz. butter, 2 oz. flour, 2 pts. chicken stock, 1 pt. milk, 1 gill cream, 2 egg yolks, seasoning, bread croutons. Peel the cucumbers, cut them into quarters, remove the seeds, and slice coarsely. Parboil in salted water, drain, and put in a stew- pan with one ounce of butter; let stew for about half an hour, season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Melt the remain- ing two ounces of butter in another stew-pan, stir in the flour, cook it without burning, add the cooked cucumber, dilute it with the stock, boil up, skim, add the milk boiling. Cook slowly for twenty minutes. Rub through a fine sieve. Stir cream and yolks of eggs469 AUXILIARY RECIPES well together, pour in with the puree, return to the fire, stir until the liaison of egg and cream is formed, then pour into a soup-tureen, and serve with croutons. Ham Mousse (cold) Half a pound lean cooked ham, \ pt. Espagnole sauce, 1 gill aspic jelly, gills cream, \ oz. gelatine, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Take the lining of a silver-plated souffle case, tie round it a band of white paper to support the mousse or souffle, which should have a risen appearance, and to obtain this the mould must be overfilled; pound ham and sauce together in a mortar, and rub through a wire- sieve. Put the aspic into a basin, and whisk it till it becomes light and frothy, whip up the cream, and stir it by degrees into the pounded mixture; season well, then strain into it 5 oz. gelatine dissolved in a little stock, and a few drops of carmine to give a nice pink colour, and, lastly, the whisked aspic, which makes it light and frothy. Turn into a prepared mould and put on the ice to set. When firm enough, garnish with chives and chopped truffles, and pour a layer of half-set aspic over the top, allow to set, remove band of paper, slip the mousse into the outer souffle case, and it is ready to serve. Printaniere Sauce Blanch some tarragon, chervil, and chives. Drain and press. Then pound in a mortar with butter, pass through a sieve, and mix with some Allemande sauce, adding a few drops of tarragon vinegar. Bearnaise Sauce Place some tarragon and a sliced shalot in a sauce-pan with some seasoning. Cover with half a gill of tarragon vinegar, reduce to half, add one gill of stiff white sauce, and bind the mixture with two yolks of eggs. Work in two ounces of butter, and tammy the mixture. Finish with a little chopped tarragon and seasoning to taste. Orange Salad Four oranges, ^ lemon, 1 tablespoonful sweet salad oil (huile de Provence), 1 tablespoonful brandy, ^ teaspoonful castor sugar, ^ teaspoonful finely chopped tarragon and chervil, a pinch of cayenne. Remove the peel and pith from the oranges, divide the fruit into the natural divisions, removing at the same time all the skin and pips. Put the fruit in a salad bowl, add a few thin slices of lemon free from skin and pips, pour over the oil and brandy, season with sugar and cayenne. Add the chopped herbs. Mix thoroughly but carefully, and pile up neatly on a dish. Cheese Straws About 6 oz. puff paste, 2 oz. freshly grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne pepper. Roll out the paste, sprinkle well with grated cheese, fold in three, and give it one turn. Allow it to stand for ten minutes, and repeat470 THE MODERN COOK the operation until the cheese is used up. Do not use any flour for flouring the board, use grated cheese in place. When rolling out for the last time, sprinkle with a little cayenne pepper. Cut the paste into very narrow strips about three inches long, twist each strip in screw-like fashion, and place in rows on a wetted baking-sheet. Shape also four or five rings about an inch and a quarter in diameter. Bake the strips and rings in a slow oven for about ten minutes. Make up into bundles by means of the rings, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve hot. Anna Potatoes Cut sufficient potatoes into thin slices to fill a timbale or Anna potato mould; wash, drain, and dry. Allow three ounces of butter to each pound of potatoes. Grease the mould, and arrange a layer of potatoes, the slices to overlap each other ; place over some of the butter and a little seasoning. Arrange the layers of potatoes, butter, and seasoning until the mould is full. Cover and cook for thirty minutes. Turn out, drain off the superfluous butter, and dish up the mould. Anna potatoes may also be arranged in small timbale or dariole moulds and served as garnishes. Welsh Rarebit Cut into slices two ounces Cheddar cheese; put it in a stew-pan with half an ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of milk or beer. Stir over the fire till melted, and pour over hot buttered toast; range on a hot dish, sprinkle over with a little cayenne pepper, and serve quickly. Cardoons Cardoons are prepared and cooked similar to celery. Rissoles Take about half a pound of trimmings of puff paste; give it three turns or folds; roll it out to the thickness of a penny-piece; place some small balls of croquette meat mixture at distances of about two inches from each other. Moisten the paste round these with a brush dipped in water; fold the flap to the front part of the paste over the balls ; press all round them with the edge of the thumb; cut them out with a round tin cutter, and, as you do so, place the rissoles upon a floured dish. When a sufficient number have been thus cut out, fry the rissoles in hot fat, drain, and serve. Veal-Stuffing To half a pound of bread-crumbs add four ounces of chopped suet and two whole eggs ; season with chopped parsley, thyme, marjoram, and shalot (the last three in very small quantities), nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Mix well together, and use this stuffing as directed. Caramel Cream Six oz. castor sugar, pts. milk, ^ pt. cream, i oz. gelatine, 6 yolks of eggs, i lemon.AUXILIARY RECIPES 471 Peel the lemon finely, chop the rind and put it in a copper sugar- boiler, add two ounces of sugar and a few drops of lemon-juice, stir over the fire until it acquires a dark amber colour, add the milk and boil up, then stir in the yolks of eggs, two at a time, and the re- mainder of the sugar. Stir over the fire until it begins to thicken, and pass through a fine sieve or strainer. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of water, strain it into the above, let it cool a little, whip the cream, and mix. Fill up a mould, stand it on the ice to cool; when set, turn out and serve. Lemon Sauce Half pint milk, 2 yolks of eggs, 2 oz. castor sugar, £ oz. cornflour, £ lemon. Put the yolks of eggs in a small sauce-pan, beat up well, and add the castor sugar, cornflour, and the rind of half a lemon chopped finely. Mix thoroughly, and work in slowly the boiling milk. Stir with a whisk over the fire until the sauce acquires the desired consistency, strain, and serve as directed. Chocolate Sauce Four oz. grated chocolate, 2 oz. icing sugar, 3 parts of a pint of water, 1 oz. fecule or creme de riz, 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence, 1 tablespoonful brandy. Put the chocolate, sugar, and water in a sauce-pan ; stir over the fire until it boils. Mix the fdcule or crbme de riz with an extra gill of cold water, add it to the chocolate, bring it again to the boil, and let simmer for five minutes. Pass through a tammy or napkin, return to the sauce-pan, add the brandy and vanilla essence, and keep hot until required. Vanilla Sauce One tablespoonful Brown & Poison’s cornflour, J pt. milk, 1 pat fresh butter, \ oz. loaf-sugar, vanilla pod. Boil up the milk with the butter, loaf-sugar, and an inch of vanilla pod. Mix the cornflour with a little cold milk in a basin, and pour on it the hot milk; return to the sauce-pan, boil up, and cook for eight minutes. A little cream may be added just before serving. Raspberry Sauce One gill raspberry pulp, 1 oz. sugar, 1 tablespoonful cornflour, milk or cream, rum or brandy. Heat up the raspberry pulp (or raspberry jam) with the sugar. Mix the cornflour with milk, cream, or water, and stir into the above. Boil for eight minutes, strain, and add rum or brandy to taste.473 SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS FOR EVERY MONTH THROUGHOUT THE YEAR JANUARY Hors d'oeuvre. Olives k la Tartare. Soup. Palestine Soup. Fish. Fried Soles. Anchovy Sauce. E?itrde. Chicken Bouchdes. Remove. Braised Leg of Welsh Mutton. Vegetables. Potatoes. Broccoli. Sweet. Apples k la Portuguaise. Soup. Julienne Soup. Fish. Crimped Cod. Oyster Sauce. Entrdes. Beef Marrow Rissoles. Carbonade of Lamb. Roast. Roast Hare. Mashed Potatoes. Sweets. Apricot Souffle Pudding. Orange Jelly. Savoury. Herring Roes k la Lucullus.THE MODERN COOK 474 JANUARY Hors d’oeuvre. Oysters. Soup. Ox-Tail Clear Soup. Fish. Broiled Herrings. Mustard Sauce. Entree. Chicken Quenelles a l’ltalienne. Remove. Roast Griskin of Pork. Apple Sauce. Vegetables. Potatoes. Spinach. Roast. Roast Pheasant. Endive Salad. Sweet. Chestnut Pudding. Soup. Vermicelli Soup a la Windsor. Fish. Turbot. Lobster Sauce. Entrie. Fricassee of Chicken. Vegetable. Salsify Fritters. Roast. Roast Wild Duck. Julienne Potatoes. Orange Salad. Sweet. Chartreuse of Bananas.475 SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS JANUARY Soup. Jardiniere Clear Soup. Fish. Whitings au Gratin. Entrde. Tendons of Veal with Sorrel Pur6e. Vegetables. Potatoes. Artichokes. Remove. Braised Pheasant. Soubise Sauce. Sweet. Brown-Bread Pudding. Savoury. Cheese Straws. Hors (Tamvre. Small Foie-Gras Darioles. Soup. Lobster Bisque. Fish. Souchet- of Flounders. Entrde. Fillets of Partridges h la Lucullus. Remove. Braised Ham with Spinach. Roast. Roast Teal. Potato Chips and Salad. Sweet. Pine-Apple Souffle. Savoury. Sardines a la DiableTHE MODERN COOK 47<5 FEBRUARY Soup. Cream of Barley if la Reine. Fish. Matelote of Eels. Entree. Lamb Cutlets with Celery Puree. Remove. Braised Roll of Beef h la Flamande. Roast. Roast Capon and Salad. Sweet. Caramel Cream. Savoury. Canapes of Anchovies. Soup. Clear Soup h la Deslignac. Fish. Boiled Mackerel. Caper Sauce. Entrie. Chicken h. la Marengo. Remove. Roast Cushion of Veal. Vegetables. Puree of Endive. Anna Potatoes. Roast. Roast Black Game. Salad. Sweet. Maraschino Jelly and French Pastry. Savoury. Welsh Rarebit.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 477 FEBRUARY Soup. Bonne Femme Soup. Fish. Fillets of Brill h la Marechale. Entrde. Grenadins of Veal. Vegetables. Potatoes. Salsify h la Bechamel. Roast. Roast Pigeons. Salad. Sweet. Viennoise Pudding. Savoury. Sardine Fritters. Soup. Cucumber Cream Soup. Fish. Skate with Black Butter Sauce. Entrde. Calf’s-Head en Tortue. Vegetables. Potatoes. Cardoons. Roast. Roast Pintail. Chicory Salad. Sweet. Rhubarb Tart and Custard. Savoury. Sardines with Grated Cheese.478 THE MODERN COOK FEBRUARY Hors d'oeuvre. Iced Caviare. Soup. Purde of Carrots. Fish. Fried Whitebait. Remove. Boiled Leg of Pork h l’Anglaise. Vegetable. Cauliflower au Gratin. Roast. Roast Goose. Baked Potatoes. Corn Salad. Sweet. Tapioca and Banana Sponge. Hors d'oeuvre. French Sardines. Soup. Brussels Sprouts Soup. Fish. Baked Bream. Anchovy Sauce. Entree. Blanquette of Lamb’s Sweetbreads. Remove. Roast Neck of Mutton. Vegetables. Artichokes. Potatoes. Roast. Roast Turkey. Chestnut Purde. Sweet. Savarin with Rum Syrup.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 479 MARCH Soup. Purde of Lentils. Fish. Boiled Salmon. Dutch Sauce. Entrde. Veal Cutlets en Papillottes. Remove. Braised Fowl en Casserole. Vegetable. Cabbage h la Creme. Sweets. Biscuit Pudding h la Prince Albert. Chocolate Sauce Hors d'ceuvre. Stuffed Olives. Soup. Tomato Soup. Fish. Braised Sturgeon. Remove. Braised Leg of Lamb with Mixed Spring Vegetables. Roast. Roast Quails. Potato Chips and Salad. Sweets. Bavarian Cream. Genoese Pastry. Savoury. Oysters en Croutes.480 THE MODERN COOK MARCH Soup. Potato Soup with Cream. Fish. Fried Skate. Anchovy Sauce. Entrde. Beefsteak h la Frangaise. Baked Potatoes. / Roast. Roast Ptarmigan. Salad. Sweets. Lemon Pudding. Custard Sauce. Savoury. Smoked Salmon on Toast. Soup. Cream of Rice Soup. Fish. Fried Eels. Tartare Sauce. Entree. Carbonades of Mutton h la Flamande. Vegetables. Potatoes. Stuffed Tomatoes. Roast. Roast Chicken and Salad. Sweet. Russian Charlotte. Savoury. Shrimp Bouchees.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 481 MARCH Soup. Chicken Cream Soup. Fish. Fried Smelts. Lemon Sauce. Entree. Ham Mousse. Mad&re Sauce. Roast. Roast Beef. Yorkshire Pudding. Horse-Radish Sauce. Vegetables. Artichokes. Potatoes. Sweet. Apricot Pudding. Savoury. Baked Cheese Tartlets. Soup. Gravy Soup. Fish. Braised and Stuffed John Dory. Remove. Grilled Porterhouse Steak. Vegetables. Braised Endives. Potato Chips. Roast. Roast Duck. Salad. Sweet. Pine-Apple Souffld. Savoury. Anchovy Fritters. 2 1THE MODERN COOK 482 APRIL Soup. Chiffonade Gravy Soup. Fish. Red Mullets in Paper Cases. Entree. Lamb Cutlets h la Chevreuse. Remove. Braised Ox Tongue with Spinach. Roast. Roast Larks. Fried Potatoes. Salad. Sweets. French Pancakes. Rhubarb Cream. Savoury. Curried Crab on Toast. Soup. Consommd with Chicken Quenelles. Fish. Flounders en Souchet. Entree. Calf’s-Brain Fritters with Mushrooms au Gratin. Roast. Roast Loin of Mutton. Sea-kale. Potatoes. Sweet. Fruit Savarin. Savoury. Bloater Souffles.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 483 APRIL Soup. Clear Soup with Macaroni. Fish. Trout h la Meuniere. Remove. Braised Shoulder of Lamb k la Jardiniere. Roast. Roast Goose. Salad. Sweet. Prince of Wales Pudding. Soup. Clear Mock Turtle Soup. Fish. Boiled Gurnet. Shrimp Sauce. Entree. Fillets of Beef with Mushrooms. Roast. Roast Chicken. Vegetables. Asparagus. Potatoes. Sweets. Rhubarb Tart. Custard. Savoury. Cheese Cream Souffles.THE MODERN COOK 484 APRIL Soup. Asparagus Cream Soup. Fish. Haddock Fillets. Egg Sauce. Remove. Braised Loin of Veal with Spinach. Roast. Roast Ducklings. Salad. Sweet. Pine-Apple Fritters. Savoury. Talmouses with Cheese. Soup. Bisque of Crab. Fish. Grilled Mackerel. Fennel Sauce. Remove. Braised Rump of Beef h la Polonaise. Roast. Roast Pigeons. Salad. Sweets. Vanilla Souffle. Raspberry Sauce. Savoury. Oyster Bouchees.485 SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS MAY Hors cP oeuvre. Stuffed Olives. Soup. Clear Soup with Sago. Fish. Grilled Sole h la Maitre d’Hotel. Remove. Braised Beef. Vegetables. Green Peas and New Potatoes. Roast. Roast Chickens. Salad. Sweet. Gooseberry Tart and Cream. Soup. Jardiniere Clear Soup. Fish. Baked Fillets of Brill. Entree. Fillets of Fowl with Cucumbers. Braised Lettuce. Potatoes. Roast. Roast Quails. Spring Salad. Sweets. Cabinet Pudding. Jam Sauce. Savoury. Caviare on Toast.THE MODERN COOK 486 MAY Soup. Cucumber Cream. Fish. Grilled Fresh Herrings. Entree. Calfs-Head h la Marigny. Remove. Braised Ham with Spring Vegetables. Roast. Roast Prairie Hens. Salad. Sweet. Souffle of Apricots. Savoury. Devilled Cheese Straws. Soup. Bonne Femme Soup. Fish. Boiled Halibut. Shrimp Sauce. Remove. Braised Veal with Potato Pur£e. Roast. Roast Duckling. Vegetables. Green Peas. Potatoes. Sweet. Fruit Macddoine Jelly.487 SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS MAY Soup. Green-Pea Puree. Fish. Fried Fillets of Gurnets. Entries. Pigeon Cutlets h la Princesse. Remove. Beef-steak Pie. Vegetables. French Beans h la Maitre d’Hotel. Mashed Potatoes. Roast. Roast Larks. Salad. Sweets. Souffld of Rice. Pine-Apple Sauce. Savoury. Toasted Cheese. Soup. Clear Julienne Soup. Fish. Fried Whiting and Anchovy Sauce. Entrte. Blanquette of Veal with Mushrooms. Remove. Braised Neck of Mutton. Vegetables. Haricot Beans with Tomatoes. Roast. Roast Duckling. Salad. Potato Chips. Sweet. * Brown-Bread Pudding. Savoury. Sardines on Toast.THE MODERN COOK 488 JUNE Soup. Clear Macaroni Soup a la Colbert. Fish. Fried Soles. Tartare Sauce. Entree. Calves’ Feet a la Pascaline. Remove. Fillet of Beef a la Provengale. Vegetable Marrow a la Crbme. Roast. Roast Pigeon. Dandelion and Lettuce Salad. Sweets. Cherry Tart. Custard in Glasses. Soup. Vermicelli Soup. Fish. Baked Stuffed Haddock. Anchovy Sauce. Entries. Mutton Cutlets h la Maintenon. Remove. Roast Veal a l’Anglaise. Vegetables. Parisian Potatoes. Green Peas. Roast. Roast Guinea Fowl. Salad. Sweets. Brown-Bread Cream. Chocolate Sauce. Savoury. Cheese Darioles. »SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 489 JUNE Soup. Mutton Broth. Fish. Salmon. Hollandaise Sauce. Remove. Braised and Stuffed Breast of Veal. Vegetable. Cauliflower au Gratin. Roast. Roast Fowl. Salad. Sweets. Strawberry Cream. French Pastry. Savoury. Anchovy Fritters. Soup. Clear Soup with Asparagus Points. Fish. Boiled Ling. Parsley Sauce. F?itrie. Sweetbread Croquettes with Green Peas. Roast. Roast Chicken. Italian Salad. Sweet. Banana Souffle Pudding. Savoury. Curried Crab.THE MODERN COOK 49° JUNE Hors cPoeuvre. Iced Melon. Soup. Clear Soup k la Brunoise. Fish. Boiled Carp. Normandy Sauce. Entree. Braised Tendons of Veal. Vegetable Chartreuse. Roast. Roast Venison. Salad and Fried Potatoes. Sweet. French Cherry Tart. Soup. Consomme with Lettuce and Peas. Fish. Salmon-Trout. Dutch Sauce. Entree. Fillets of Beef. Truffle Sauce. Vegetables. Marble Potatoes. Broad Beans. Roast. Roast Duck. Salad. Sweet. Strawberry Souffle. Savoury. Cheese Fondu.491 SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS JULY Soup. Spinach Cream Soup. Fish. Turbot h la Hollandaise. Entree. Croquettes of Ox Palates. Piquante Sauce. Remove. Braised Ham. Broad-Bean Puree. Roast. Roast Turkey Poults. Potato Croquettes. Lettuce Salad Sweet. Raspberry Mousse. Soup. Consommd a la Paysanne. Fish. Crimped Turbot. Dutch Sauce. Entree. Fillets of Mutton with French Beans. Vegetables. Vegetable Marrow. Potatoes. Roast. Roast Capon. Salad. Sweet. Iced Vanilla Souffle.492 THE MODERN COOK JULY Soup. Chicken Consomme with Quenelles. Fish. Fillets of Soles en Souchet. Roast. Roast Neck of Lamb h la R6gence. Vegetable. Peas a la Frangaise. Sweet. Strawberry Cream and Wafers. Savoury. Fondu of Cheese. Soup. Bonne Femme Soup. Fish. Whitebait. Entree. Vol-au-vent h la FinancRre. Remove. Small Ribs of Beef. Vegetables. Braised Leeks. Potatoes. Roast. Green Goose. Salad. Sweets. Pine-Apple Jelly and Black-Currant Pudding. Savoury. Savoury Haddock Croutes.493 SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS JULY Soup. Puree of Green Peas. Fish. Grilled Pike. Sauce Remoulade. Entree. Sweetbread Cutlets. Vegetable. Vegetable Marrow au Gratin. Roast. Roast Duck. Salad. Sweet. Pine-Apple Fritters. Soup. Cauliflower Soup. Fish. Fried Fillets of Flounders. Tomato Sauce. Entree. Braised Lambs’ Sweetbreads. Roast. Roast Fillet of Veal. Vegetables. Potatoes. Broad Beans. Sweet. Chartreuse of P'ruits. Savoury. Caviare on Toast.494 THE MODERN COOK AUGUST Soup. Macaroni Consomm6. Fish. Fried Fillets of Whiting. Tartare Sauce. E?itree. Salmi of Grouse h la Bordelaise. Roast. Roast Neck of Mutton with Baked Tomatoes Sweets. Compote of Fruit. Moka Cream. Savoury. Parmesan Fondu. Soup. Hodge-Podge. Fish. Grilled Sole h la Maitre d’Hotel. Remove. Fricandeau h la Jardiniere. Vegetables. Fried Salsify. Potatoes. Roast. Roast Wild Duck. Salad. Sweets. Plum Tart. Vanilla Blanc-mange.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 495 AUGUST Soup. Julienne Consomme. Fish. Trout it l’Aurore. Entree. Braised Ox-Cheek. Vegetables. Spinach h la Creme. Potatoes Roast. Roast Woodcock. Salad. Sweet. Apricot Charlotte. Savoury. Smoked Cod’s Roe on Toast. Soup. Puree of Carrots. Fish. Fried Soles h la Colbert. Entree. Fillets of Venison Larded. Poivrade Sauce. Savoury Rice Croquettes. Braised Cucumber. Roast. Roast Duck. Salad. Sweet. Peach Pudding. Savoury. Cold Cheese Soufflds.THE MODERN COOK 496 AUGUST Soup. Purde of Game. Fish. Boiled Brill. Shrimp Sauce. Entree. Tournedos of Beef with Olives. Remove. Roast Loin of Mutton. Vegetables. Baked Potatoes. French Beans. Roast. Capon au Gros Sel. Sweet. Tapioca Cream Pudding. Soup. Chicken Purde h la Reine. Fish. Fried Fillets of Whiting. Lemon Sauce. Entrde. Veal Cutlets h la Perigord. Scarlet Runners. Roast. Roast Widgeon. Salad. Sweets. Apricot Fritters. Vanilla Sauce.497 SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS SEPTEMBER Soup. Purde of Endives with Cream. Fish. Fried Eel k la Tartare. Entree. Mutton Patties h la Windsor. Roast. Roast Fowl. Salad. Vegetable. Cauliflower au Gratin. Sweet. Damson Tart and Custard. Savoury. Devilled Oysters. Soup. Ox-Tail Soup. Fish. Boiled Cod k la Bechamel. Entree. Croustade of Lambs’ Brains. Vegetable. Spinach Soufflds. Roast. Roast Haunch of Red Deer. Anna Potatoes. Salad. Sweet. Burnt Cream. Savoury. Welsh Rarebit. 2 KTHE MODERN COOK 498 SEPTEMBER Soup. Giblet Soup. Fish. Broiled Haddocks. Parsley Sauce. Entree. Ragout of Beef. Vegetables. Parisian Potatoes. Vegetable Marrow. Eoast. Roast Partridge. Salad. Sweets. Apple Junket and Cranberry Tart. Savoury. Tomatoes on Toast. Soup. White Purde of Turnips. Fish. Oyster Kromeskis. Entrde. Mutton Cutlets h. la Soubise. Remove. Braised Ham with French Haricot Beans. Sweet. Brown-Bread Pudding. Savoury. Devilled Chicken Croutes.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 499 SEPTEMBER Soup. Mock-Turtle Soup. Fish. Pike h la Chambord. Entree. Haricot of Mutton. Vegetables. Scarlet-Runner Beans. Mashed Potatoes. Roast. Roast Plovers. Salad. Sweet. Greengage Pudding. Savoury. Cheese Aigrettes. Soup. Celery Cream Soup. Fish. Fillets of Gurnets k l’ltalienne. Entree. Braised Sweetbreads with Puree of Endives. Roast. Roast Pheasant. Salad. Straw Potatoes. Sweets. Mulberry Jelly. Swiss Pastry.THE MODERN COOK 5°° OCTOBER Soup. Calves’-Tail Soup. Fish. Steamed Brill. Lobster Sauce. Entree. Polpettes of Rabbits h 1’Italienne. Roast. Roast Sucking-Pig h 1’Anglaise. Potatoes. Artichokes. Sweets. Apple Charlotte. Puff-Pastry Royals. Savoury. Oysters on Toast Soup. Consomme with Rice. Fish. Grilled Cod’s Steak. Parsley Butter. Entrde. Pork Cutlets. Sauce Robert. Remove. Braised Pheasant en Casserole. Vegetables. Stuffed Cabbage and Potatoes. Sweet. Banana Fritters.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 5ox OCTOBER Soup. Puree of Peas. Fish. Boiled Haddock. Egg Sauce. Entrie. Chicken Saute h l’Algerienne. Roast. Roast Partridge. Fried Potatoes. Salad. Sweet. Viennoise Pudding. Raspberry Sauce Savoury. Sardine Canapds. Soup. Mock-Turtle Soup. Fish. Fried Soles. Tomato Sauce. Remove. Boiled Leg of Mutton. Vegetables. Carrots. Turnips. Roast. Roast Woodcock. Fried Artichoke Chips. Sweet. Chocolate SoufflCTHE MODERN COOK 5°2 OCTOBER Soup. Puree of Spinach. Fish. Baked Cod. Anchovy Sauce. Entree. Fillets of Veal h la Jardiniere. Vegetables. Potatoes. Vegetable Marrow. Roast. Roast Pheasant. Salad. Sweet. Omelette Souffle. Savoury. Macaroni au Gratin. Soup. Hare Soup. Fish. Fried Fillets of Bream. Tartare Sauce. Entrde. Haricot of Mutton k la Nivernaise. Vegetables. Potatoes. Braised Celery. Roast. Roast Plovers. Salad. Sweet. Ginger Pudding.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNERS 5°3 NOVEMBER Soup. Scotch Broth. Fish. Matelote of Carp and Eels. Entree. Blanquette of Veal. Vegetables. Pur6e of Potatoes. Celeriac h la Cr^me. Roast. Roast Turkey. Salad. Sweet. Chestnut Pudding. Orange Trifle. Soup. Cream of Pearl Barley. Fish. Baked Pike. Italian Sauce. Entree. Curry of Rabbits h. l’Indienne. Vegetables. Celery h l’Espagnole. Potatoes. Roast. Roast Goose. Salad. Sweet. Apple Fritters.THE MODERN COOK 5°4 NOVEMBER Soup. Palestine Soup. Fish. Baked Carp. Entree. Stewed Pig’s Feet h la Perigord. Remove. Lark Pudding. Vegetables. Mashed Potatoes and Spinach. Roast. Roast Pheasant. Salad. Sweet. Pear Charlotte it l’Allemande. Savoury. Anchovy Toast. Soup. Paysanne Soup. Fish. Boiled Turbot. Dutch Sauce. Remove. Braised Mutton h la Bretonne. Vegetables. Potatoes. Braised Onions. Roast. Roast Widgeon. Salad. Sweet. Stewed Apples and Rice. Savoury Cheese Aigrettes.Calf’s-Brain Fritters. SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNER 50 Caviare on Toast. Cl NOVEMBER Soup. Macaroni Soup. Fish. Grilled Herrings. Mustard Sauce. Entree. Remove. Boiled Turkey. Oyster Sauce. Vegetables. Baked Potatoes. Brussels Sprouts. Sweet. Apricot Tart. Savoury. DECEMBER Soup. Puree of Game. Fish. Grilled Whiting h la Maitre d’Hotel. Entrde. Braised Sheep’s Tongues with Spinach. Roast. Roast Capon. Salad. Potatoes h la Crdole. Sweet. Stewed Pears with Rice. Savoury. Anchovy Fritters.THE MODERN COOK 506 DECEMBER Soup. Consommd Brunoise Soup. Fish. Turbot k la Hollandaise. Entree. Pigeons k la Duchesse. Remove. Roast Ham k la St. James. Vegetables. Potatoes. Cardoons. Sweet. Rusk Pudding. Soup. Cream of Brussels Sprouts. Fish. John Dory. Lobster Sauce. Entrde. Chicken Bouchdes h la Pompadour. Vegetables. Potatoes. Spinach. Roast. Roast Grouse. Salad. Sweets. Plum Pudding. Mince Pies. Savoury. Sardines on Toast.SPECIMEN MENUS OF DINNER 5°7 DECEMBER Soup. Vermicelli Clear Soup. Fish. Fried Ling. Tartare Sauce. Entree. Mutton Cutlets. Puree of Endives. Roast. Roast Widgeon. Salad. Sweet. Lemon Pudding. Savoury. Cheese Ramequins. Soup. Consommd with Nouilles. Fish. Fried Smelts. Tomato Sauce. Entrie. Ox Tail h la Jardiniere. Remove. Boiled Leg of Pork. Peas Pudding. Roast. Roast Teal. Salad. Sweets. Apple Charlotte. Mince Pies. Savoury. Curried Prawn Crohtes.THE MODERN COOK 5°8 DECEMBER Soup. Puree of Lentils. Fish. Boiled Turbot. Dutch Sauce. Entree. Curried Chicken with Rice. Remove. Roast Leg of Mutton. Vegetables. Baked Potatoes. Braised Celery. Roast. Roast Goose. Orange Salad. Sweets. Christmas Pudding. Banana and Tapioca Sponge. Soup. Oyster Bisque. Fish. Fried Carp. Anchovy Sauce. Entree. Grilled Ham and Peas. Roast. Roast Duck. Apple Sauce. Vegetable. Sea-kale. Dutch Sauce. Sweets. Queen Pudding. Mince Pies.WINE CUPS, Etc. Bacchus Cup Put half a pint of sherry, two tablespoonfuls of brandy, one of noyeau, and one of castor sugar into a jug; add a sprig of balm, half a bottle of champagne, a few pieces of ice, and a bottle of iced seltzer water, and serve. Claret Cup One bottle of claret, three bottles of soda-water, a small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, one orange cut in slices, half a cucumber sliced thick, a liqueur-glassful of Cognac, and one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method : Place these ingredients in a covered jug set on ice, stir all together with a silver spoon, and when the cup has been iced for about an hour, strain or decanter it off free from the herbs, etc. Badminton Cup One bottle of red Burgundy, one bottle of soda-water, the rind of one orange, the juice of two, a wine-glassful of curaqao, a small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, a sprig of verbena, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy, a few slices of cucumber. Method: Place these ingredients in a covered jug set on ice, leave for about an hour, and afterwards decanter the cup free from the herbs, etc. Burgundy Cup Embed a jug in ice, and place in it a bottle of Burgundy, a liqueur-glassful of chartreuse, the strained juice of a lemon, and sugar to taste. Before serving, add half a pint of port and two bottles of well-iced seltzer water. Champagne Cup One bottle of champagne, two bottles of soda-water, two oranges sliced, a small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method: Place these ingredients in a covered jug and leave on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter it free from the herbs, etc. Champagne Cup (another way) Put a bottle of iced champagne into a large jug, add two or three sprigs of verbena, three slices of cucumber, one ounce of castor sugar, a liqueur-glassful of curagao, and two bottles of iced soda-water. 5°9THE MODERN COOK 5IQ Hock Cup Rub two ounces of sugar on to the thinly pared rind of two lemons, pound it, and place it in a bowl with the strained juice, a liqueur-glassful each of curacao and chartreuse, and a quart of iced hock. Stir well, add two bottles of iced soda-water, and serve. Sauterne Cup One bottle of Sauterne, one pint of Vichy water, two oranges sliced, a small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method: Place these ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter it. Moselle Cup One bottle of sparkling Moselle, a bottle of soda-water, a small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, two oranges sliced, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method : Place these ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter it free from the herbs, etc. Zeltlinger Cup Rub one ounce of lump-sugar on to the rind of a lemon, pound it, and put it into a bowl with the strained juice, two slices of pine- apple, a gill of sherry, and a bottle of Zeltlinger. Let it stand on ice for an hour, and before serving add a bottle of iced soda-water. Marsala Cup Rub two ounces of loaf-sugar on to the rind of two lemons, pound it, and place in a jug; add the strained juice, six large ripe strawberries, a sprig of borage, a bottle of iced Marsala, and a bottle of iced seltzer water. Strawberry Cup Rub some ripe strawberries through a hair-sieve, and put a pint of this puree into a jug. Add a liqueur-glassful of maraschino, a bottle of white wine, six whole strawberries, and sugar to taste, and let it stand in ice for an hour before using. Pine-Apple Cup Eight ounces of pine-apple sliced very thin, one bottle of iced A'i wine, a sprig of verbena, a wine-glassful of maraschino, a bottle of iced soda-water, two ounces of crushed sugar-candy. Method: Place the slices of pine-apple, the verbena, the maraschino, and the sugar-candy in a glass jug, and afterwards mix in the iced wine and soda-water. Chablis Cup One bottle of Chablis, two bottles of soda-water, one small bunch of balm, ditto of borage, one orange sliced, two ounces of crushed sugar-candy.WINE CUPS, ETC. 511 Method : Place these ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter the cup free from the herbs, etc. ., _ Ale Cup Toast a slice of bread and put it into a bowl with the thinly pared rind and strained juice of a lemon, one ounce of castor sugar, a good pinch of grated nutmeg, a sprig of balm, two wine-glassfuls of sherry, one of brandy, and three pints of ale. Let it stand for five minutes, then remove the balm, and serve. Beer Cup One quart of stout or porter, half an ounce of moist sugar, a small slice of bread toasted brown, and a small quantity of grated nutmeg and ginger. Mix these ingredients in a jug, and allow the cup to steep for half an hour previous to serving. Note.—Ale cup is made in a similar manner. These cups are more particularly adapted for being handed round with cheese. Lager Beer Cup Rub two ounces of loaf-sugar on to the rind of a large lemon, pound it, place it in a bowl; add the thinly pared rind of another lemon and the strained juice of both, one and a half gills of sherry, a sprig of mint, half a pint of iced water, and two bottles of iced lager beer, and serve. Cider Cup One quart of cider, two bottles of soda-water, a small glass of Cognac, a few leaves of balm, ditto of borage, a sliced orange, one ounce of crushed sugar-candy. Method: Place the ingredients in a covered jug and set on ice for an hour and a quarter, then decanter the cup free from herbs, etc. Note.—Any other aerated water may be substituted for soda, or the cup may be prepared without the addition of any water. Perry Cup This is prepared in the same manner as cider cup, substituting, of course, perry for cider. Tennis Cup Rub six ounces of loaf-sugar on to the rind of three lemons, pound it, and place it in a jug with the strained juice, two sprigs of borage and verbena, three wine-glassfuls of brandy, and two of ginger syrup. Let it stand in ice for an hour, and before serving add four bottles of iced seltzer or soda-water. Wine Cup Put a bottle of iced claret into a jug, add a gill of brandy, a wine- glassful of maraschino, a thinly sliced orange, the juice of a lemon, one ounce of loaf-sugar previously rubbed on the rind of the lemon and then pounded, two slices of cucumber, four sprigs of mint; then add a bottle of iced champagne and two of iced soda-water, and serve.GLOSSARY A LA. A la mode de, after the style or fashion of; a la Francaise, French style ; a la Reine, Queen style ; a l’Imperatrice, Empress style ; a la Russe, Russian style. Ail (une gousse d’ail). Garlic ; a clove of garlic. Allemande. Reduced or concentrated white Veloute sauce, enriched with cream and yolks of eggs, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. Angelica is a plant, the tender tubular branches of which, after being preserved in syrup, are used for the purpose of decorating sweet dishes, etc. Anglaise (X l’). English style. Affixed to a dish, usually implies that it con- sists of something plain roasted or plain boiled, or that the dish is prepared in a style typical of this country; it does not necessarily follow that it must be plain. Aspic. Savoury jelly. A l’aspic, set in aspic, or garnished with aspic. Au Maigre. A French expression used for dishes prepared without meat. Lenten dishes. Au Naturel. Food cooked plainly and simply. Aubergine. An annual plant, a native of the West Indies; also called egg- plant. Baba, a kind of light yeast cake with currants. Bain-Marie. The culinary water-bath, with a distinct set of small sauce-pans, where sauces, etc., are kept so that they are nearly at the boiling-point without burning or reducing. Ballotine. Small balls or rolls of meat or fowl. Bechamel is the foundation white sauce. This sauce takes its name from a celebrated cook. Beurre Noisette. Nut-brown butter, viz. butter melted over the fire until it begins to brown. Bisque. A thick soup generally made with shellfish. Blanch. To parboil: to scald vegetables, etc., in order to remove their hulls or skins, such as almonds, etc. Blonde de Veau. A very rich veal broth, used for flavouring and enriching white soups and sauces. Bon-Bons. Sugar confectionery ; sweetmeats, etc. Bouchees. Small puff-paste patties (petits pates), small enough to be a traditional mouthful only. Boudin. A delicate kind of entree prepared with quenelle force-meat or mince. ^13 2 LTHE MODERN COOK 5r4 Bouillon. A plain clear soup. Unclarified beef broth. Bouquet (garni) or fagot consists of a handful of herbs—parsley, green onions, a small bay leaf, and a sprig cf thyme—neatly tied together. Bourgeoise ('a la). Surname given to dishes prepared in a simple, homely style. Braise, Mirepoix, Marinade, Po£le, Blanc are various methods used for imparting flavour to braised meats, and also for keeping calves’ heads, poultry, etc. white, while they are being braised. Braising signifies a slow process of simmering, or stewing in a closely covered vessel over a slow fire. Brioche. A species of light French yeast cake resembling Bath buns. Canape. Slices of bread or pastry cut into various sizes ; much used for hors- d’oeuvre and savoury dishes. Cannelons or Canelons. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat, etc. Caramel. Burnt sugar, occasionally used as a make-shift for colouring. Carbonade. Stewed or braised meat. Caviare. The salted roe of sturgeon or sterlet (fish eggs). Cervelle. Brain. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Charlotte consists generally of very thin slices of bread, steeped in clarified butter and placed in symmetrical order in a plain mould garnished with fruit or preserve ; also biscuit-lined moulds filled with cream. Chartreuse. A mixed preparation, consisting of vegetables, meat, or fruit symmetrically and tastefully arranged in a plain mould. Chartreuse A. la Parisienne, etc. An ornamental entree or side-dish, com- posed chiefly of quenelle force-meat, the interior being garnished with ragouts, scallops, etc. Chaud-Froid. Chicken, game, cutlets, etc., masked with cold sauce and served cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly. Cold Entrees. These consist of cutlets, ham, tongue, fillets of game, poultry, and fish, aspics, salads of poultry, fish, or shellfish, boars’ heads, potted meats, etc. They are appropriate for ball suppers, public breakfasts, and upon all occasions where a cold collation is served. Compote generally means fruits preserved in syrup; this word is also used to designate certain savoury dishes prepared with pigeons, quails, or larks, mixed with peas or mushrooms, etc. Condiments. Highly flavoured seasoning, spices, etc. Consomme. Clear strong broth, much used in the preparation of soups, sauces, etc. Contise. When small scallops of truffles, ox-tongue, etc., are inlaid, as orna- ments by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are called contises. Cotelettes. Cutlets. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Also applied to thin slices of meat from other parts. Court-Bouillon. Name given to a rich fish broth ; a highly seasoned fish stock in which fish is boiled. Cr£cy. Dishes named “ & la Crecy ” generally contain carrots in the form of a puree. Crapes. French pancakes. Crates. Giblets of poultry or game.GLOSSARY 5*5 Croquantes. A transparent mixture of boiled sugar and fruit. Croquettes and Rissoles. A preparation of mince with a bread-crumbed coating. These words both signify something crisp. Croustades, Pati^s-Chauds, Tourtes, Timbales, Casseroles. Various ornamental pie-cases, made either of bread, paste, or prepared rice. Croutons. Sippets of bread of various sizes and shapes, fried in clarified butter, and used to garnish salmis, fricassees, dressed vegetables, etc. ; they are also served with certain soups, chiefly with purees. Cuisse. Leg. Cuisse de volaille, leg of chicken or fowl. Curry. From the Hindu word “khura” (palatable, eatable), Kari. An Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish, or fowl ; a sharp-spiced sauce. Dariole. Origin unknown. A kind of small pate, composed of force-meat or inince baked or steamed in small moulds. Demi Deuil (en). White meats larded with truffles; literally, “half- mourning.” Diable is applied to dishes with sharp and hot seasoning; a la diable, devilled. Durcelles or Duxelles is the name given to a mixture of chopped mushrooms, shalots, parsley, etc., used for flavouring sauces, purees, etc. £clair. A French pastry filled with cream. Ecossaise (a l’). Scotch style. Entries. A conventional term for side-dishes, comprising cutlets, fricassees, fricandeaux, fillets, scallops, salmis, boudins, sweetbreads, pates -chauds, chartreuses, etc. Entremets or second-course side-dishes consist of three distinct sorts, namely, dressed vegetables ; scalloped shellfish and dressed eggs and other savouries ; and, lastly, of the infinitely varied class of sweets, consisting of puddings, gateaux, timbales, sweet croquettes, charlottes, croquantes, pastries, jellies, creams, fritters, etc. Escalope. Thin round or oval-shaped fillets of veal called ‘ ‘ collops. ” Obsolete, eascalope. Meaning thin slices of any kind of meat, usually egged, crumbed, and fried. Espagnole. A rich brown sauce ; the foundation of nearly all brown sauces, classified as the main “grande sauce,” or “ sauce mere.” Fanchonettes and Florentines. Varieties of small pastry meringued over. Farce. Various kinds of fine force-meat made of fish, meat, poultry, and game Fecule. A very fine flour of rice or potato used for binding soups or sauces. Filet or Fillet. The under cut of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, and pork. Also the boned breasts of poultry or game birds; the boned sides of fish are also called fillets. Flans, Darioles, and Mirlitons. Varieties of French cheese-cakes or custard mixtures. Foie-Gras. Fat goose liver. Fondant. Melting. A kind of icing ; French dessert bon-bons. Fondue. A preparation of melted cheese, originally made in Sv/itzerland. A savoury. Franchise (A la). French style. Applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as well as for those of the most elaborate finish.516 THE MODERN COOK Frangipane. Confectioner’s custard. Frappe. Iced (used when cooling champagne, sauces, and creams). Fricandeau and Grenadins consist of the primest parts of veal, or fillets of poultry, etc., smoothly trimmed, larded, braised, and brightly glazed with a concentration of their own liquor ; they are served as side-dishes. Fricassee consists of white meat cut in pieces, and prepared in a white sauce, with truffles, mushrooms, cocks’-combs, etc., as accessories. Fritter. Beignets. Anything dipped in batter, or crumbed, egged, and fried. Fumet. Flavour or essence of game, fish, etc., used to impart a rich flavour to certain dishes. Garnishing or Garniture. As a culinary term, it means to decorate a dish with edibles of ornamental appearance. Gateau. A round, flat cake, generally decorated. Essentially a rich cake; also frequently applied to open fruit tarts, etc. Gaufres. A light spongy sort of biscuit. Glac6. Anything iced. This word is also sometimes used figuratively, by French cooks, to signify a smooth glossy surface. Glaze. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly, used for glazing meats, etc., to improve their appearance ; well-made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengthening soups and sauces. Gnocchi. A light, savoury dough, boiled and served with grated Parmesan cheese. Gratins. A term applied to certain dishes consisting of game, poultry, fish, vegetables, or macaroni, etc., covered with sauce, grated cheese, bread-crumbs and browned. Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra, the young capsules of the okra plant, gumbo being the name by which okra is mostly known in South America. Chicken gumbo is a puree made from okra and chicken. Hach£. Minced meat; finely sliced meat heated up in brown or white sauce. IIatelet. Small silver skewers, used for ornamenting fish and remove dishes. Hors-d’ceuvre (Hot). A species of very light side-dish, such as patties of all kinds, rissoles, croquettes, scalloped fish, shellfish, macaroni, poultry, game, sweetbreads, brains, beef marrow, salads of fish, poultry, or game, etc. Hors-d’ceuvre (Cold). These should be eaten immediately before the soup and fish ; they are considered as appetisers or whets to the appetite, and consist of sardines, anchovies, tunny, Dutch herrings, savoury butters, oysters, oiled salads, etc. Icing. A covering for cakes or pastry, made with fine sugar and white of egg, or sugar and water, flavoured and coloured to taste. Irlandaise (A l’). Irish style ; applied to dishes containing potatoes in some form. Italienne (A l’). Applied to dishes containing macaroni or similar paste, together with cheese and tomato. jARDiNifcRE. A preparation of mixed vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Kromeskis. Polish word ; same meaning as croquette in French. Krona Pepper. A mild red pepper seasoning of delicate aroma and coral-red colour, used for all kinds of savoury preparation.GLOSSARY 5*7 Laitance. Soft roe of a fish. Larder or Piquer. To lard. A culinary term which means to insert with a larding-pin (lardoire) small strips of bacon (lardoon) into a piece of meat, fish, poultry, or game. Liaison. The mixture of yolks of eggs, cream, etc., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Luting. A paste made of flour and water, and used for fastening the lids on to cooking pans when preserving game, etc., in order to prevent evaporation. Macedoine. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in discs, or fruit embedded in jelly. Madeleine. Small French cakes resembling queen-cake. Maitre d’Hotel (A la). Hotel steward’s fashion. Also the name of a flavouring butter, mixed with chopped parsley, and seasoned with lemon juice, pepper, and salt; served on grilled meats or fish. Maitre d’Hotel sauce is a white sauce with chopped parsley. Dishes so named generally signify quickly and plainly prepared food in which parsley is used as the principal flavouring. Marinade. The brine in which fish or meat is soused or pickled, before cooking. Marmite. The stock-pot. Matelote. A stew of mixed fresh-water fish, sometimes of one kind only, as eels. Mayonnaise. A cold salad, sauce, or dressing. It is said to have been invented by the chef to the Due de Richelieu, after the victory of Mahon (Mahonnaise). Menu. Bill of fare. Literally, the word means minute detail of courses. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541- Meringue. Light baked froth shell shapes, made of whites of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice. Meringue. Anything frosted or coated with meringue mixture baked long enough to set and colour. Mignonette Pepper. A preparation from either white or black peppercorns, which, after being broken, chopped, or ground coarse, so as to resemble mignonette seed, should be sifted in order to remove the dust. Mirepoix. Foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats. Mousse. A light ice-cream. Nougat. A mixture of almonds and sugar. Nouilles. A paste preparation made with flour and eggs. Panade. A culinary paste of flour and water, or soaked bread, used in the preparation of force-meat and stuffing. Paner, to bread-crumb. Panure. Cutlets, scallops, croquettes, or any other preparation that is bread- crumbed. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. A kind of sweet capsicum of a brilliant scarlet colour ; it is less pungent than Nepaul or Spanish pepper. Parmesan. Name of an Italian cheese, largely used for culinary purposes. Pat!;. A pie, pastry ; a savoury meat pasty, or a raised pie.5iS THE MODERN COOIC PAte de Foie-Gras. A well-known delicacy prepared from the livers of fat geese. Alsace is the most celebrated country where the so-called lerrines de foie-gras are made. Paupiettes. Slices of meat or fish rolled with force-meat. Pimiento. Red Spanish pepper-pod. Piping. A decoration made of icing, used for ornamenting cakes, pastry-stands, small pastry, etc. It is thus effected :—Take a short funnel or conically shaped instrument of tin, and insert the same within a larger-sized and similarly shaped paper funnel or cornet, the pointed end of which must be cut off so as to allow the tin instrument to protrude : place the icing or glazing (a mixture of finely pounded sugar and white of egg worked into a smooth and firm paste) in the cornet or forcer, the upper part of which must be completely closed ; the glazing is then forced out at the point by pressure of the thumb on the upper part of the cornet. Pluche or Plushe, the leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, or sorrel snipped or cut small ; these are used mixed or separately, according to directions. Generally used for clear soups. Pot-au-FEU is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef broth. Poussin. Chic-chicken, or a baby chicken. Praline. Flavoured with burnt almonds. Profitrolles. A light kind of pastry, creamed inside. Puree. A kind of pulpy maceration of roasted meats, and of vegetables or fruits, finished by being passed through a tammy or sieve. Name given to thick soups. Quenelle. A delicate sort of force-meat, used in the preparation of entrees, and as garnishing for soups. RagoOt. A rich compound, consisting of quenelles, mushrooms, truffles, fat livers, etc., mixed in a rich sauce, and used for garnishing highly finished removes and entrees. Releves or Removes. These usually consist of roast joints, turkeys, capons, highly or plain dressed fillets, or rolls, etc., of beef, calves’ heads, etc., served at dinner after the entree course. Remouillage. Second stock. Remoulade. A cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs and mustard, used as salad dressing, etc. Roux. A mixture of fresh butter or other fat and flour, which, after being baked, is used for thickening sauces. There are three kinds—white, fawn, and brown. Saccharometer. An instrument to test degrees of sugar. Salmi. A highly finished ragout, made with par-roasted game or wild-fowl, cut up and prepared in either a rich gravy or sauce. Sai.picon. A mince of poultry or game, with ham, tongue, and mushrooms ; used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, etc. Saute. Cutlets, scallops of game, poultry, or fish, etc., lightly fried in butter. Soci.e. Base pedestal made of rice, bread, fat, sugar, etc., and used in cookery and confectionery. Sorbet. An iced Turkish drink ; also the name of a partly set water-ice, with fruit or liqueur flavour ; usually served in goblets.GLOSSARY 5J9 Soubise. A smooth onion pulp, served with various kinds of meat entries. As a surname to dishes, a la Soubise is generally applied when onions enter largely into the composition of the dish ; the term implies a strong onion flavour, or a garnish of onion puree. Souffles. The word souffle means, strictly, something puffed up, and is generally applied to a light kind of pudding; it is made with any kind of farinaceous substance, and may be flavoured either with fruits, liqueurs, or essences. Tamis. Tammy. Silk or woollen canvas cloth which is used for straining soups and sauces. Tartare. A cold sauce made of yolks of eggs, oils, mustard, capers, gherkins, etc., served with fried fish or cold meats; also a salad dressing. Timbale. Literally “kettle-drum ” ; a kind of crusted hash baked in a mould. Tournedos. Small, thin fillets of beef served as entrees. Trifle. A sweet dish composed of sponge-cake, macaroons, fruit jams, custard, whipped cream, brandy and other liqueurs. Turbans and Mazarines. Ornamental entries made of force-meats, and fillets of either game, poultry, or fish arranged in the form of a turban. Veloute. Velvet-like. Name of a rich white sauce. Foundation sauce. Vol-au-vent. A figurative expression applied to puff paste of the lightest kind. Round or oval case filled with either meat or fruit. Zeste or Zest. Outer skin of the orange or lemon cut thinly or grated.INDEX Aitchbone of beef a l’Anglaise, 171 Albert biscuits, 414 sauce, 12 Ale cup, 511 Allemande sauce. See under Sauce Almond blanc-mange, 459 cakes, 409 gsiufres, 494 omelet, burnt, 443 paste, 392 Almonds, Genoese cakes with, 407 milk of, 439 rice cake with, 438 American planked Salisbury steak, 237 yam ft la Franfaise, 353 Anchovies, 362 essence of (for steaks, etc.), 42 stuffed olives with, 361 Anchovy biscuits, 305 butter, 42 beefsteaks with, 236 crofttes, 305 pasties, 305 sandwiches, 382 sauce, 18 toast, poached eggs with, 376 and tomato savoury, 369 Anna potatoes, 470 Apple charlotte (1), 463 charlotte (2), 464 fritters, 425 pudding, 451 tart with quince, 424 tartlets, 422 (another way), 422 Apples in the form of a porcupine, 433 k la Portugaise, 433 (another way), 434 and rice (ornamented), 432 (plain), 433 turnover of (Parisian), 417 Apricot biscuits, 413 charlotte, 465 cheese k la Chantilly, 463 cream (Bavarian), 460 d'Artois of, 419 nougats, 419 pudding (souffld), 448 Apricots, souffld of, 441 tourte of (German), 417 Aromatic sauce, 9 spices for seasoning, 391 Artichoke bottoms, garnish of, 36 fritters, 369 purde, braised mutton cutlets with, 248 kernel of veal with, 258 Artichokes k la Barigoule, 346 with butter sauce, 345 with foie-gras, 369 k l’ltalienne, 347 Jerusalem, 352 garnish of, 37 ft l'ltalienne, 352 purde of, 31 en surprise, 346 it la Lyonnaise, 346 purde of, 29 (soup), 76 Asparagus with carrots, 348 fricassde, 348 (heads), garnish of, 35 (peas), garnish of, 35 lamb cutlets bread-crumbed with, 269 (points) k la creme, 347 clear rice soup with, 68 purde of, 29 k la Condd (soup), 80 k la St. George (soup), 81 rolls, 347 salad, 348 with White sauce, 347 Aspic of fowl h la Reine, 303 fricassde of chicken in, 280 galantine of chicken with, 303 mayonnaise, 24 Aspic jelly, 24 boar's head with, 203 essence of, 41 ham with, 199 ox-tongue with, 193 salmi of partridges with, 332 Attereaux of ox-palates ft la d'Uxelles, 241 Aubergines, stuffed, 339 Baba or Polish cake, 398 Badminton cup, 505 52t522 THE MODERN COOK Badminton sandwiches, 381 Banana blanc-mange, 459 cream, meringues with, 437 custard, baked, 432 (and macaroon), 462 fritters (sweet), 427 mould (jellied), 455 omelet (savoury), 375 amber pudding, 444 salad (and walnut), 359 souffle, 440 sponge (and tapioca), 462 tart, French, 415 Bananas, baked, 434 with rice, 434 Barley a la Duchesse, cream of, 84 k la princesse Alexandrina, cream of, 84 (pearl) a la Printaniere, cream of, 83 a la Reine, cream of, 83 a la Roy ale, cream of, 83 a la Victoria, cream of, 83 Baron of lamb. See under Lamb Batter, calfs brains fried in, k la Provenpale, 267 frying (for fillets of fish, poultry, game, etc.), 56 (for fruit fritters), 56 lamb's ears fried in, 272 feet fried in, 273 rabbit fried in, with Poivrade sauce, 315 Bavarian cream, apricot, 460 maraschino, 459 strawberry, 460 Beans (broad) k la crime, 348 (flageolet) ft la Poulette, 352 (French), garnish of, 36 with fine herbs, 348 k la Maitre d'Hdtel, 348 purie of, 3r salad, 357 (red haricot), garnish of, 38 purie of (soup), 74 (white haricot) 4 la Bretonne, 353 garnish of, 38 h la Maitre d'Hdtel, 352 purie of (soup), 74 salad, 3S7 salad (mixed), 357 (Windsor), garnish of, 36 purge of, 26 Bdchamel sauce. See under Sauce Beef, aitchbone of, ft l’Anglaise, 171 braised, a la Claremont, 239 a la Printaniere, 163 brisket of, k l’Anglaise (boiled), 170 k l'Ecarlate (boiled), 170 k la Flamande (stewed), 171 fillet of, k l'Allemande, 168 k l'Anglaise (roast), 168 dressed as Chevreuil (roebuck), braised, 167 'k la Jardiniire (braised), 167 Beef, fillet of (conld.)— k la Macddoine, 167 with Madeira sauce (braised), 168 k la Milanaise (braised), 168 ft la Napolitaine, 166 a la Nivernaise (braised), 169 ft la Parisienne (roast), 169 k la Provenpale (roast), 169 a la Royale (braised), 169 fillets of, glazed, 236 k la Madeleine, 234 k la Moscovienne, 234 k la Quirinal, 234 ft la Rossini, 234 k la Seymour, 234 hashed (plain), 238 with broiled bones, 238 marrow in cases with fine herbs, 242 croustades or patties of, 243 ft la Ravigote, 242 on toast (savoury), 371 minced, with poached eggs, 238 ft la Portugaise, 238 rib of, a la Baden (braised), 173 ft la Bourgeoise, 173 ft la Chasseur (braised), 172 with Madeira sauce (braised), 173 k la Mode, 173 ft la Pidmontaise, 172 roll of, ft 1’Allemande (braised), 164 ft la Claremont (braised), 164 k la Dauphinoise (braised), 166 ft la Flamande (braised), 163 garnished with glazed vegetables, 166 k la Milanaise (braised), 165 k la d'Orldans (braised), 165 k la Polonaise (braised), 163 ft la Richelieu (braised), 166 a la Royale (braised), 164 k la Windsor (braised), 164 round of, k l’Anglaise (boiled), 171 ft la Chasseur, or *' Hunting Beef," (boiled), 171 rump of (braised), 166 steak en casserole, 236 ft la Franpaise, 234 and oyster pie, 213 and oyster pudding, 214 Salisbury, American planked, 237 sirloin, with oysters, planked, 237 steaks with anchovy butter, 236 French, 236 tea, 53 Beer cup, 511 lager, 511 Birds (small) ft la Chipolata, pudding of, 21S quenelle of fillets of, 60 Biscuit pudding ft la Prince Albert, 451 Savoy ft la Chantilly, swan of, 438 Biscuits, Albert, 414 anchovy, 305INDEX Biscuits (conid.)— apricot, 413 brown-bread, 411 champagne, 412 fingers or Naples, 401 glacds, 466 glacds in small cases, 431 Italian, 411 orange, 412 peach, 412 Russian, 414 Sicilian, 414 Venetian, 411 Victoria, 415 Bisque of crab 4 la Fitzhardinge, 86 crayfish & l'Ancienne, 85 crayfish k la Malmesbury, 86 lobsters k la Stanley, 87 prawns a la Cerito, 87 quails h la Prince Albert, 84 rabbits au veloutd, 85 snipes h la bonne bouche, 85 Black butter sauce, Beurre noir or. See under Sauce Black-currant jelly sauce (for venison), 16 Black game. See under Game Black puddings. See under Pudding Blanc or white braise (for calves' heads or ears, etc.), 57 Blanc-mange, almond, 459 banana, 459 , Blanquette of rabbit h I’Ecarlate, 317 sturgeon, 157 sweetbreads (lamb’s), 271 veal, with mushrooms, 260 Bloater cream toast, 367 Bloaters, fillets of, with cheese, 367 potted, 385 Blond de veau, or veal gravy, 52 Boar's head with aspic jelly, 203 Boar's-head sauce. See under Sauce Bones, hashed beef and broiled, 238 Border potato, with calf’s brains k la Ravigote, 226 with larks and truffles, 225 with ox-palates k l’lndienne, 225 garnished with scallops of sheep's tongues and fine herbs, 225 Borders or casseroles of rice, 223 Borsch or Polish soup, 106 Bouchde or patty cases, puff paste, 395 Bouchdes of chicken. See under Chicken Bouchdes la Mazarin, 396 Boudins of chicken. See under Chicken lobster k la Cardinal, 155 partridge. See under Partridge salmon d. 1'Italienne, 156 whiting k la SuprSme, 156 Bouillabaisse or Provenfale soup, 103 Brains, calf’s. See under Calf lamb's. See under Lamb Braise for general purposes, 55 523 Braise, white, blanc or (for calves’ heads or ears, etc.), 57 Braising game, mirepoix for, 57 Brawn sauce, 25 Bread, biscuits (brown), 411 cherry, 445 cream (brown), 460 panada for quenelles, 58 pudding k la Gotha (brown), 444 (plain), 448 sauce, 19 (fried), 19 Scotch, 402 souffid k l'Allemande (brown), 442 soup k la Jardinidre, 71 k la Princesse, 72 Bread-and-butter pastry, 421 Bread-crumbed lamb cutlets with aspara- gus peas, 269 Breast of lamb. See under Lamb veal. See under Veal Brioche paste, 397 Brisket of beef. See under Beef Broad beans. See under Beans Broccoli or cauliflower, garnish of, 37 Broth, chicken, 52 (Ceylon moss gelatinous), 54 (plain), 52 crayfish, 53 mucilaginous, 53 mutton, S3 Scotch, 69 Brown-bread biscuits, 411 cream, 460 pudding k la Gotha, 444 souffid ft l’Allemande, 442 Brown sauce. See under Sauce Brussels sprouts, 355 garnish of, 37 ox-tongue with, 243 purde of, 30 soup, 468 Bubble and squeak, 239 Burgundy cup, 509 Butter, anchovy, 42 beefsteaks with, 236 crayfish, 43 epicurean, 43 lobster, 42 Montpellier, 43 Provenfale, 42 Ravigote, 42 (green), 43 sauce. See under Sauce spinach with, 341 Button onions. See under Onions Cabbage, garnish of (braised), 38 lettuces, garnish of (braised), 39 ox-cheek with (braised), 240 soup, Russian Tschi or, 108 Cabbages, garnish of stewed red, 39524 THE MODERN COOK Cabbages, pheasants with, 324 Cabinet pudding, 447 Cake, Baba or Polish, 398 Compiegne, 398 Gdnoise, 407 macaroni, 440 mille-feuilles, a la Chantilly, 432 Neapolitan, d la Chantilly, 435 nouilles, a l’Allemande, 439 Parisian, 399 Pithiviers, 416 plum, 402 potato, 440 pound, 403 rice (with almonds), 438 savarin, 400 d la Stanley (iced), 428 Savoy, 401 Savoy, glazed ham of, 438 seed (plain), 403 semolina, 440 vermicelli, 439 Victoria, 400 Cakes, almond, 409 cheese, 4x6 Condd, 418 d’Artois, 417 Genoese, 406 Genoese (with almonds), 407 ginger, 412 Polish, 421 Queen’s, 409 Spanish (petits-choux), 407 Calf's brains fried in batter, a la Pro- venpale, 267 with black butter sauce, 267 with Matelote sauce, 267 d la Ravigote, potato border with, 226 scalloped, 267 ears, fried, with tomato sauce, 266 a la Tortue, 265 feet, fried, with Italian sauce, 266 4 la Pascaline, 266 soup, & la Windsor, 97 foot jelly, 452 (clarification of), 452 stock, orange jelly made with, 453 Calfs head d l’Anglaise, 188 a la Beauvaux, 189 & la Financiere, 189 d la Marigny, 191 with Piquante sauce, 189 ragofit, d la Tortue, 44 d la Tortue, 190 turtle sauce for, 4 liver, fried, with fine herbs sauce, 267 with vegetables (braised), 266 udder, preparation of, 59 Calves' heads or ears, blanc or white braise for, 57 tails k la Poulette, croustade with, 230 Canapds of caviare, 360 curried crab, 367 sardine, 365 Cannelons of ox-palates with Poivrade sauce, 240 Caper sauce. See wider Sauce Capilotade or rechauffe of chicken or fowl a l'ltalienne, 284 Capon a l’Anglaise, 206 d la Chipolata, 206 d l’Estragon, 207 a la Godard, 205 d 1' I voire, 206 d la Jardiniere, 206 with macaroni, 207 a la Macddoine, 206 d la Milanaise, 207 with nouilles, 208 a la Pdrigord (stuffed with truffles), 205 pie, with truffles, 387 a la Printaniere, 206 with rice, 207 roast, 338 au gros sel, 206 Caramel, 24 cream, 470 petits-choux with, 408 Carbonade of mutton. See under Mutton lamb. See under Lamb Cardoons, 470 Carp d l’Allemande, 149 d l’Anglaise (stewed), 149 d la Bourguignote, 148 a la Chambord, 147 d la Pdrjgueux, 148 a la Provenpale, 148 a la Royale, 148 small (fried), 149 d la Vdnitienne (fried), 149 Carrots d l’Allemande (young), 350 asparagus with, 348 d la crdme (new), 350 garnish of (young), 32 d la Flamande, 34 in olives, etc., 32 d la Nivernaise (and turnips), 33 purde of (young), 26 d la Crdcy (soup), 75 d la Stanley (soup), 79 Cases, beef marrow in, with fine herbs, 242 croustade, 395 mullets in, with fine herbs, 137 mushrooms in (devilled), 369 ortolans in, with Madeira sauce, 334 ox-palates in, with fine herbs, 242 partridges in (scallops of), 329 puff-paste bouchde or patty, 395 sweetbreads in (lamb’s), 270 tourte (for entrdes), 394 trout in, with fine herbs, 122525 INDEX Cases, vol-au-vent (for entries), 394 Casserole, beefsteak en, 236 chicken en, 285 of rice, & l'AUemande, garnished with wings of fowls, 224 a la Belle-Vue, garnished with a purde of game, 224 & la Polonaise, 224 a la Reine, 224 Casseroles or borders of rice, 223 Cauliflower au gratin, 343 with white sauce, 343 Cauliflowers (or broccoli), garnish of, 37 purde of, 27 Caviare, canapes of, 360 duchesses with, 359 as hors-d’oeuvre, 359 mayonnaise of, 359 oysters with, 363 rosettes, 360 Celery, braised with Espagnole sauce, 339 fritters, curried, 340 garnish of, k la creme, 34 & 1’Espagnole, 34 pheasants with purde of, 322 purde of, 27 sauce, boiled turkey with, 205 k la Villeroi, 340 Cepes, soused, 361 Chablis cup, 510 Champagne biscuits, 412 cup. See under Cup Char & la Beaufort, 142 i la Gdnoise, 141 k la Hollandaise, 142 in matelote, 141 Charlotte, apple (1), 463 apple (2), 464 apricot, 465 & la Parisienne, 464 peach, & la Franfaise, 464 pear, k l'AUemande, 464 Russian, 461 Chartreuse en Belle-Vue, 228 h la Cardinal, 229 au chaudfroid de gibier, 229 of fruit, 229 k la Parisienne, 228 of vegetables, with partridges, 226 with quails, 227 with veal, 227 Chateaubriand k la Scribe, 237 Chaudfroid de gibier, chartreuse au, 229 oyster, 363 Cheese aigrettes, 370 apricot, k la Chantilly, 463 fillets of bloaters with, 367 cakes, 416 currant and raspberry transparent, 463 darioles, 371 Cheese fondu, 370 omelet, 375 ramequin, baked, 371 sandwiches, 384 souffles, 370 straws, 469 talmouses with, 420 Cherry bread, 445 jelly, 4SS sauce, 15 Victoria, 16 tartlets, 422 Chestnut pudding, 447 Italian, 450 Chestnuts, garnish of, for roast turkey, 37 mutton cutlets with purde of, 247 purde of, 28 brown, 77 white, 77 Chevreuil, fillet of beef dressed as, 167 sauce. See under Sauce Chicken a l'Africaine, 288 k l’Algdrienne, 283 k l’AUemande, 288 en Belle-Vue (cold), 302 bouchdes of, k la Pompadour, 297 boudins of, h la d’Artois, 296 k la Pdrigueux, 296 h la Reine, 297 & la Richelieu, 295 & la Sefton, 296 h la Soubise, 296 broth, 52 (Ceylon moss gelatinous), 54 (plain), 52 capilotade or rechauffe of, a l'ltali- enne, 284 k la Cardinal, 287 en casserole, 285 & la Chivry, 287 consommd, 50 croquettes with mushrooms, 301 crolltes, devilled, 368 curry of spring, 283 curried (another way), 283 custard, 54 custards (or game), 55 cutlets (and tongue) k la Reine, 284 & la Dauphine, 286 a la Diable, 282 h 1’Espagnole, 288 & la Financidre, 282 & la Florentine, 283 (another way), 287 fricassde of, in aspic, 280 <1 la Chevalidre, 280 h la Dauphine, 279 A la Financidre, 280 & la St. Lambert, 279 with mushrooms, 278 cl la Romaine, 281526 THE MODERN COOK Chicken, fritdt of, with tomato sauce, 284 galantine of, with aspic, 303 & l’lndienne, 288 & l’ltalienne, 286 kromeskis of, a la Russe, 301 legs, galantine of, ft la Financiere, 298 & la Jardiniere, 299 marinade of (fried), 289 mayonnaise of, 302 k la Milanaise, 287 mince, or salpicon, for patties, 301 minced, with poached eggs, 300 with macaroni, 300 with rice, 300 la Montmorency, 287 palmettes of, k la Valoise, 298 panada, 54 planked, 289 pie, 4 la Reine, 211 k la Provenfale, 282 quenelles for consomme, 67 & l'Essence, 294 k la Mardchale, 295 k la Toulouse, 294 k la Reine, 286 roulettes, k la Duchesse, 298 salad, 302 saute, with oysters, 281 soup (and rice), 68 el la Tartare, 282 with tomato sauce, 286 k la Toscane, 284 turban of, k la Prince de Galles, 231 & la Turque, 288 k la Vdnitienne, 286 Chickens (young), Austrian style, 285 wings, ragofit of, 48 Chips, potato, 354 Chocolate cream, 460 glacds, 413 pudding, 449 sauce, 471 souffle, 441 Chops, venison, 277 Christmas pie, Yorkshire or, 388 Cider cup, 511 Civet of roebuck, 278 venison, 276 Claret cup, 509 Clarification of calf’s-foot jelly, 452 Clarified syrup for jellies, 453 Clear soup. See under Soup Cloves of garlic, garnish of, 37 Cock-a-leekie soup, 68 Cocks’ kernels k la Soubise, ragoftt of, 47 Cocktail, oyster, 363 Cod fi. la creme au gratin, 127 crimped, fi. la Colbert, 128 k la Hollandaise, 128 & la Maitre d’HStel, 129 k la Normande, 128 and oyster sauce, 127 Cod, k l’lndienne, 128 and oyster sauce, 126 scallops of, k la Bcjchamel, 129 slices of, a la Seville, 127 stuffed and baked, 127 vol-au-vent of, k la creme, 221 Cod’s head, baked, 129 roe on toast, 367 sounds and egg sauce, 131 a la Gasconne, 132 a la Ravigote, 131 k la Royale, 132 Coffee cream, 460 souffle, 441 Colbert or fine herbs sauce, 5 Collops, Scotch, 261 Compote of pigeons. See under Pigeons Consomme a la Beaujon, 72 Brunoise, 70 chicken, 50 quenelles for, 67 chiffonade, 63 & la Dauphine, 64 Deslignac (or Imperial), 71 a la Ferneuse, 72 fish, 88 Flemish, 70 fowls (white), 50 Imperial (or Deslignac), 71 Jardiniere, 62 Julienne, 62 Metternich, 66 Mikado, 66 Mulligatawny (clear), 67 ;! la Nantaise, 67 a la Napoleon, 65 k la Nemours, 65 a la Nesselrode, 65 Nivernaise, 63 partridges or pheasants, 50 (white), 51 Paysanne, 71 Portugaise, 66 & la Princesse, 64 of rabbits (brown), 50 with rice, 68 Richelieu, 65 for soups in general, 49 k la Tivoli, 64 k la Vertprd, 62 Xavier, 63 Coquettes of pears, 465 Coquilles, egg, 370 Coral mayonnaise, red or, 24 Cornets do ham i\ la gtflee, 364 Crab, bisque of, fi la Fitzhardinge, 86 canapes of (curried), 367 savoury, with tomato sauce, 367 z6phires of, k la Royale, 162 Crayfish, bisque of, k l'Ancicnne, 85 k la Malmesbury, 86 broth, S3INDEX 527 Crayfish butter, 43 ragofit, 4S sauce, 14 Cream, apricot Bavarian, 460 barley a la Princesse Alexandrina, 84 a la Duchesse, 84 burnt, 461 a la Chateaubriand, 462 chocolate, 460 coffee, 460 endive with, 342 Italian, 461 macaroni with, 379 maraschino Bavarian, 459 meringues with banana, 437 orange-flower, 461 pastry (or custard), 419 pearl barley. See under Barley pine-apple, a la Suisse, 458 pistachio, 461 potatoes in (baked), 354 pudding, tapioca, 451 rice. See under Rice k la Romaine, 462 sauce. See under Sauce soup, cucumber, 468 haddock, 88 spinach with, 342 strawberry Bavarian, 460 Celestina, 462 tartlets, filbert, 424 toast, bloater, 367 Creamed peas, 349 Creams, haddock (cold), 366 Cr^cy soup, with whole rice, 79 Crdpinettes of partridge 4 la d'Estaing, 33i Croquante of macaroons a la Chantilly, 436 of oranges, 435 of walnuts (fresh), 436 Croquettes, chicken, with mushrooms, 301 rice, for soup, 104 of sweetbreads, 265 veal, 261 Croustade with calves’ tails a la Poulette, 230 cases, 395 of goose livers k l'Epicurienne, 230 with lamb’s brains h la Matelote, 230 with quails k la Bourguignonne, 230 Croustades or patties of beef marrow, 243 ornamental, 229 ortolans a la Provenfale, 334 CroQtes, Alexandra, 368 anchovy, 365 chicken (devilled), 368 k la Darvelle, 372 mushroom, 369 peach, 465 Crofitons for woodcock, 332 Crusts, Condd, 73 Duchess, 62 gratinated k la Royale, soup of, 72 Cucumber, cutlets (lamb) with, 269 (mutton) with, 246 k l’Espagnole, 352 garnish of (farci), 34 (in scallops), 33 k la Josephine (stuffed), 350 k la Poulette, 351 pur^e of, 30 quails (escallops of) with, 314 k la Royale, 350 salad, tomato and, 358 soup (cream), 468 Cup, ale, 51 x Bacchus, 509 Badminton, 509 beer, 511 (lager), 511 Burgundy, 509 Chablis, 510 champagne, 509 (another way), 509 cider, 511 claret, 509 hock, 510 lager beer, 511 Marsala, 510 Moselle, 510 perry, 511 pine-apple, 510 Sauterne, 510 strawberry', 510 tennis, 511 wine, 511 Zeltlinger, 510 Cupid's wells, 420 Currant and raspberry cheese (trans- parent), 463 and raspberry jelly, 455 jelly sauce for venison. See under Sauce Curried celery fritters, 340 chicken, 283 crab, canapes of, 367 toast, 368 Curry of chicken (spring), 283 ox-palates, 241 sauce. See under Sauce Cushion (or noix) of veal. See under Veal Custard, banana (baked), 432 and macaroon, 462 chicken, 54 fritters, 426 game, 54 pastry (or cream), 419 Custards, chicken or game, 55 Cutlets, chicken and tongue, k la Reine, 284528 THE MODERN COOK Cutlets, hare. See under Hare lamb. See under Lamb mutton. See under Mutton partridge. See under Partridge pork. See under Pork quail. See under Quail roebuck, a la Chasseur, 277 salmon, k la Maintenon, 157 veal. See under Veal Cygnet k la Norwich, 211 Dampfundeln, or German dumplings, 446 Dandelion salad, 359 Darioles, 418 cheese, 371 Darne or slice of salmon k la Mont- pellier, 161 D’artois of apricot, 419 cakes, 417 Decoction of snails for inveterate coughs, 53 Deer (red), fillets of, k la Royale, 202 haunch of, h l’Ecossaise, 201 a la Glengarry (roasted), 201 & la Kinnaird, 201 neck of, a la St. Andrew, 202 a la Marie Stuart, 202 Deer’s-head soup k la Chasseur, 100 Devilled chicken crofttes, 368 meat, 372 mushrooms in cases, 369 olives, 369 smoked salmon, 366 Devils on horseback (Diables fi cheval), 365 Devil’s sauce, 22 Devonshire squab pie, 388 Diavolini, 427 Dolphins of whiting a la Parisienne, 160 Duchess crusts, 62 loaves, 408 Duchesses with caviare, 359 Duck, with turnips, braised, 308 & la Macddoine, 307 mousse of, 310 sauce for, 311 wild, fillets of, k la Bigarade, 335 salmi of, 334 Duckling, fillets of, k la Bigarade, 309 k la Macddoine, 310 with olives, stewed, 309 with green peas, 309 k la Rouennaise, 309 salmi of, 310 Ducks, essence of sage and onions for geese and, 42 with stewed peas, 308 k la Provenqale, 308 Dumplings, Dampfundeln or German, 446 Dutch sauce, Hollandaise or. See under Sauce Eel pie, 389 soup k la Richmond, 89 Eels k l’Anglaise, stewed, 144 k la Bordelaise, 145 broiled, 144 k la Dauphinoise, 146 a la Gdnoise, 146 & l'Indienne, 147 matelote of, h la Parisienne, 145 k la Poulette, 147 spitchcocked, 143 k la Tartare, 146 k la Vdnitienne, 146 Egg coquilles, 370 salad k la Printaniere, 358 sandwiches, 383 sauce. See under Sauce savoury (and ham), 370 timbales k la Cardinal (cold), 377 Eggs k l’Aurore, 376 au beurre noir (fried), 377 ft la Dauphine, 376 au gratin, 373 k la St. Jacques, 378 kromeslcis of, 378 plovers', 361 purde of partridge with, 330 poached, with anchovy toast, 376 minced beef with, 238 minced chicken with, 300 with ham, 376 minced partridge with, 330 minced veal with, 261 (another method), 262 with spinach, 341 k la Reine, 378 scrambled, with truffles, 374 (another way), 377 la Turque, 377 a la Suisse, 378 k la tripe, 373 Endive, braised, 342 with cream, 342 purde of, 28 mutton cutlets with, 246 (soup), 77 Entrecdtes ft la St. Clair, 237 Entrdes, tourte cases for, 394 r vol-au-vent cases for, 394 Epigramme of lamb. See under Lamb , of sweetbreads, 264 Epigrammes of fillets of trout, 160 Escallops of hare. See under Hare pheasant. See under Pheasant quails. See under Quails Espagnole or brown sauce. See under Sauce Essence of anchovies (for steaks, etc.), 42 aspic jelly, 41 game (for broiled partridges, etc.), 41 garlic (for broiled fowl), 41 herbs, fine (for broiled meats, etc.), 40529 INDEX Essence of mushrooms, 40 onions (for broiled pork), 42 orange (for wild fowl), 40 sage and onions (for geese and ducks), 42 shalots, 40 truffles, 40 woodcocks, 41 Extract of hare or rabbit, 51 larks or quails, brown, 51 Fanchonettes, 415 Farce (or force-meat) game, 61 liver, for gratins, etc,, 61 Fennel sauce, 18 Filbert cream tartlets, 424 Fillets of beef. See under Beef birds (small), quenelle of, 60 bloaters, with cheese, 367 deer (red). See under Deer duckling. See under Duckling fish, game, or poultry, frying batter for, 56 flounders, soup of, a l’Anglaise, 90 fowl. See under Fowl gurnet with caper sauce, 158 haddock. See under Haddock hare. See under Hare mackerel ft la Maitre d’H6tel, 137 mutton with Chevreuil sauce, 252 partridges. See under Partridges pigeons. See under Pigeons pike, 151 rabbit. See under Rabbit roebuck. See under Roebuck salmon. See under Salmon soles. See under Sole teal, wild duck, widgeon, or ft la Bigarade, 335 trout. See under Trout turbot. See under Turbot veal. See utider Veal whitings. See under Whitings wild duck, widgeon, or teal k la Bigarade, 335 fowl k la Provenfale, 335 woodcock. See under Woodcock Fingers or Naples biscuits, 401 Fish consomm^, 88 fillets of, frying batter for, 56 planked, 155 ragoftt of soft roes of mackerel or other, 46 salt, cream or Bgchamel sauce for, 22 vol-au-vent of, k l’Anglaise, 221 sauce. See under Sauce tunny, 362 Flageolet beans. See under Beans Flan of peaches, 434 Flemish consomnig, 70 gaufres, 403 sauce, 21 Florentines, 420 Flounders k l’Anglaise, soup of fillets of, 90 Foie-gras, artichokes with, 369 as hors-d’oeuvre, 364 olives stuffed with, 361 sandwiches, 384 tomatoes with, 344 Force-meat (or farce), game, 61 liver and ham, for raised pies, 60 Foundation sauces, 3-4 Fowl, aspic of, 4 la Reine, 303 capilotade or rdchaufK of chicken or, & l’ltalienne, 284 essence of garlic for broiled, 41 fillets of, k la Financi&re, 293 & la d'Uxelles, 294 k l’Indienne, 292 k la Mardchale, 292 k la Royale, 293 ft la Valency, 293 & la Victoria (cold), 301 minced, au gratin, 300 and grilled, 299 potted (and tongue), 385 purge of, a la Celestine, 101 k la Princesse, 101 ft la Printanigre, 101 & la Reine, 100 quenelle of, 59 supreme of, ;i la Belle-Vue, 291 ft la Parisienne, 291 ;\ la Pgrigord, 292 k la Toulouse, 290 with truffles, 291 wild, essence of orange for, 40 fillets of, k la Provenfale, 335 Fowls, consommg of (white), 50 fillets of, supreme of, a l'lscarlate, 290 guinea, roast, 339 wings of, casserole of rice garnished with, & l'Allemande, 224 French banana tart, 415 bean salad, 357 beans. See under Beans beefsteaks, 236 gaufres, 404 paste, for raised pies, 391 peach pudding, 450 prune pudding, 449 rabbit pie with fine herbs, 217 sauerkraut, 39 veal and ham pie, 386 Fresh-water fish, Waterfisch sauce for boiled, 21 Friandises, spinach, 372 Fricandeau k la Macedoine, 256 with purge of green peas, 255 Fricassge, asparagus, 348 of chicken. See under Chicken Frit6t of chicken with tomato sauce, 284 Fritters, apple, 425 2 MTHE MODERN COOK 530 Fritters, artichoke, 369 banana (sweet), 427 celery (curried), 340 custard, 426 fruit, frying batter for, 56 German, 427 orange, 426 peach, 426 pine-apple, 425 Portuguese, 427 Princess, 426 Fruit, chartreuse of, 453 fritters, frying batter for, 56 tarts in general, 426 Fruits, macedoine of, 456 supreme of, k la Victoria, 465 Fry, venison, 277 Frying batter, for fillets of fish, poultry, game, etc., 56 Frving batter for all sorts of fruit fritters, 56 Galantine of chicken. See under Chicken Game, black, k l'ltalienne, 216 k la Montagnarde, 216 a la Norw6gienne, 217 k la Paysanne, 217 roast, 339 k la Su6doise, 216 custard, 54 custards, chicken or, 55 essence of, for broiled partridges, etc., 41 force-meat or farce, 61 frying batter for fillets of, 56 mirepoix for braising, 57 pie, preserved hare and other, 390 pur£e of, a la Belle-Vue, casserole of rice garnished with, 224 ragoht of scallops of (or poultry), 47 sauce (Supreme), 10 Garlic, essence of, for broiled fowl, 41 cloves of, garnish of, 37 Garnish of artichoke bottoms, 36 artichokes (Jerusalem), 37 asparagus heads, 35 peas, 35 beans (French), 36 (red haricot), 38 (white haricot), 38 (Windsor), 36 broccoli or cauliflowers, 37 Brussels sprouts, 37 cabbage (braised), 38 lettuces (braised), 39 cabbages, red (stewed), 38 carrots (young), 32 G la Flamande (young), 34 G la Nivernaise, turnips and, 33 in olives, etc., 32 cauliflowers, broccoli or, 37 celery k la crGme, 34 G l'Espagnole, 34 Garnish, chestnuts (for roast turkey), 37 cloves of garlic, 37 cucumber farci, 34 in scallops, 33 garlic, cloves of, 37 lettuces, cabbage (braised), 39 mushrooms in Allemande sauce, 32 in Espagnole sauce, 32 onions, button (white), 36 for matelote, 36 glazed, 37 peas (green), 35 (stewed), 35 sauerkraut, 39 (French), 39 truffles (whole), 32 in glaze, 31 a la Parisienne, 32 with Supreme sauce, 32 turnips, 33 and carrots a la Nivernaise, 33 vegetables, brown macedoine of, 35 white macddoine of, 35 Gaufres, almond, 404 Flemish, 403 French, 404 Geese and ducks, essence of sage and onions for, 42 Genoese cakes. See under Cakes Gdnoise cake. See under Cake sauce, 9 German custard sauce, 447 dumplings, Dampfundeln or, 446 egg sauce, 400 fritters, 427 kouglatiff, 399 puffs, Krapfen or, 445 rusks or Zwieback, 403 salad, 356 sweet sauce, 15 tourte of apricots, 417 Gherkin sauce. See under Sauce Giblet pie with fine herbs, 212 soup. See under Soup Ginger cakes, 412 pudding, 447 souffle, 441 Glaze, garnish of truffles in, 31 Glazed fillets of beef, 236 onions, garnish of, 37 turnips, 349 vegetables, roll of beef garnished with, 166 Globe artichokes. See under Artichokes Godiveau pie G la Ciboulette, 218 au MadGre, tourte of, 222 Godiveaux in general, 61 Golden Buck, 371 Goose k l’Allemande, 209 k l'Anglaise, 208 s\ la Daupliinoise, 209 k l’Estouffade, 208INDEX 531 Goose, la Flamande, 209 livers, croustade of, k l'Epicurienne, 230 mazarine of, k la Toulouse, 233 green, roast, 338 & la Normande, 210 wild, k l’Aberdeen, 210 a l’Allemande, 210 Gooseberry sauce, 19 Gratin (au) cauliflower, 343 eggs, 373 fowl (minced), 300 macaroni, 379 mushrooms, 344 pigeons, 305 potatoes £ la creme, 355 skate, with fine herbs, 153 sole, 133 sturgeon, with fine herbs, 123 tomatoes, 344 trout, 121 turbot a la creme, 113 (another way), 113 Gratins, liver farce for, 61 Gravy, broiled pork cutlets with, 273 brown, for roast veal, 20 common, 51 shalot, mutton cutlets breaded with, 246 veal, Blond de veau or, 52 Grayling, 139 Green goose, roast, 338 Grenadins of veal. See under Veal Grey mullets, 139 Griddled potatoes, 354 Grilled fowl, minced and, 299 Griskin (or spare - rib) of pork. See under Pork Grouse pie a 1’ fscossaise, 212 quenelle of, 59 roast, 339 soup, 100 Guinea fowls, roast, 339 Gum paste, 393 Gurnet, fillets of, with caper sauce, 158 Gurnets h la Dauphine, 136 k la G6noise, 136 stuffed and baked, 136 Haddock & la Belle-Vue, 130 creams (cold), 366 with egg sauce, boiled, 130 with Dutch sauce, broiled, 130 fillets of, k l'ltalienne, 131 k la Mardchale, 131 & la Royale, 130 k la Royale, 129 soup (cream), 88 stuffed and baked, 130 on toast, savoury, 366 Ham with aspic jelly, 199 cornets de, k la gdlee, 364 fillets with Italian sauce, veal and, 261 Ham force-meat, liver and (for raised pies), 60 mousse, 469 a la Parisienne, braised, 199 pie, veal and, 213 (French), 386 poached eggs with, 376 savoury, egg and, 370 with spinach, braised, 196 timbale, veal and, 386 Westphalia (baked), 199 k l’Essence, 197 k la St. James, 199 Hare, cutlets of, h l'Ancienne, 318 h la Portugaise, 318 escallops of, with fine herbs, 319 a la PtSrigueux, 319 extract of rabbit or, 51 fillets of, & l’Allemande, 318 a la Chasseur, 318 larded with Poivrade sauce, 317 jugged, with mushrooms, 319 preserved (and other game), 390 pur6e of, k la Conti, 102 quenelle of rabbit or, 59 roast, 336 soup. See under Soup turban of, a la Conti, 232 Haricot beans. See under Beans of mutton k la Nivernaise, 252 of venison, 276 Harry the VIII.'s shoestrings, 422 Haunch of red deer. See under Deer venison. See under Venison Herb omelet, savoury, 375 Herbs (fine), beef-marrow in cases with, 242 escallops of hare with, 319 essence of, for broiled meats, etc., 40 French beans with, 348 French rabbit pie with, 217 giblet pie with, 212 larks with, 315 mullets in cases with, 137 ox-palates in cases with, 242 potato border garnished with scallops of sheep's tongues and, 225 purde of spring, 79 sauce. See under Sauce scallops of mutton with, 250 sheep’s kidneys with, 254 (another way), 254 skate au gratin with, 153 soles with, 135 sturgeon au gratin with, 125 trout in cases with, 122 Herring roes k la Lucullus, 373 rolls, 362 Hock cup, 510 Hodge-podge, 69 Hollandaise or Dutch sauce, 11 Hors-d’oeuvre, caviare as, 359532 THE MODERN COOK Hors-d’oeuvre, foie-gras as, 364 olives as, 360 Hot-water paste for raised pies, 391 Iced cake & la Stanley, 428 pudding k la Prince Albert, 430 a la Princess Alice, 431 a la Cerito, 428 a la Chesterfield, 429 a la Duchess, 430 k la Kinnaird, 429 Nesselrode, 431 k la Parisienne, 430 rice, & la Cintra, 428 £l la Prince of Wales, 429 souffld au cafd, 466 with maraschino, 466 Indian sandwiches, 382 curry sauce, 12 Italian biscuits, 411 chestnut pudding, 450 cream, 461 paste soup, 68 salad, 356 sauce. See under Sauce Jellied banana mould, 455 Jellies, clarified syrup for, 453 Jelly, aspic, 24 calf’s foot, 452 clarification of, 452 cherry, 455 currant and raspberry, 453 lemon, k 1’Anglaise, 454 lemons filled with, k la Belle-Vue, 438 maraschino, 436 mulberry, 435 orange (made with calf’s-foot stock), 453 k l’Anglaise, 453 a la Franfaise, 454 garnished with quarters of oranges, 456 oranges filled with, 457 panachde, 456 pine-apple, 454 pomegranate, 434 punch, 457 raspberry (currant and), 455 Russian, 457 sauce for venison. See under Sauce savoury, prawns in, 362 strawberry, 433 variegated k la Victoria, 436 Jerusalem artichokes. See under Arti- chokes John Dory, 113 Jugged hare, with mushrooms, 319 Kernel of veal. See under Veal Kernels (cocks’) k la Soubise, ragofit of, 47 Kidney omelet, 375 pudding, 215 Kidneys, sheep's. See under Sheep Kniokis, Russian, 372 Kouglaiiff, German, 399 Krapfen or German puffs, 445 Kromeskis of chicken k la Russe, 301 of eggs, 378 Lager beer cup, 511 Lamb, baron of, a la Jardiniere, 186 & la Maltre d'Hdtel, 186 a la Montmorency, 183 a la Printaniere (larded), 186 breast of, it la Mardchale, 269 k la Villeroi with peas, 268 carbonade of, 270 cutlets bread-crumbed with asparagus peas, 269 a la Chevreuse, 270 with cucumbers, 269 k la Princesse, 269 £pigramme of, k la Toulouse, 268 neck of, k la Rdgence, 268 saddle of, k la Dauphine, 186 a la Financiere, 187 k la Godard, 187 k la Macddoine, 187 a la Milanaise, 187 a la Royale, 187 shoulder of, larded, k la Financiere, 268 Lamb’s brains, croustade with, k la Matelote, 230 ears in batter, fried, 272 a la Dauphine, 272 a la Financiere, 271 a la Vdnitienne, 272 feet in batter, fried, 273 (or ears) blanc or white braise for, 57 & la d’Uxelles, 273 a la Poulette, 272 head, & la Pascaline, 271 sweetbreads, blanquette of, 271 in cases (cold), 270 scalloped, 271 k la Toulouse, 270 Lamperns, 142 Lamprey k la Beauchamp, 143 k la Foley, 143 en matelote, 142 Lark pie k l’Essence, 220 k la Melton Mowbray, 214 Larks k la Chipolata, 314 brown extract of (or quails), 51 with fine herbs, 315 i\ la Minute, 314 potato border with truffles and, 223 ragofit of scallops of, 47 roast, 338 with truffles l’ltalienne, 315INDEX Leek omelet, 374 Leg of mutton. See under Mutton of pork. See under Pork Legs, chicken. See under Chicken Lemon jelly k l'Anglaise, 454 mincemeat, 467 pudding, 448 sauce, 471 Lemons filled with jelly k la Belle-Vue, 458 Lentils, purde of, fi la Brunoise, 75 k la Reine, 74 k la Soubise, 74 Lettuce and whole-pea soup, 70 Lettuces, garnish of braised cabbage, 39 Leveret pie a la Financiere, 218 with truffles, 218 Liver, calf's, with fine herbs sauce, fried, 267 farce (for gratins), 61 and ham force-meat for raised pies, 60 sauce, 336 Livers, goose, croustade of, k l’Epicuri- enne, 230 mazarine of, k la Toulouse, 233 ragofit of Strasbourg fat, 44 Loaves, Duchess, 408 Mecca, 409 Parisian, 423 Lobster, bisque of, k la Stanley, 87 boudins of, k la Cardinal, 155 butter, 42 4 la Newburg, 366 planked, 155 potted, 385 quenelles of, 60 k la Vertprd, 155 salad, 162 sauce. See under Sauce scalloped, 366 tourte of, k la Cardinal, 222 Loin of pork. See under Pork veal. See under Veal Macaroni cake, 440 capon with, 207 chicken minced with, 300 with cream, 379 au gratin, 379 & l’ltalienne, 379 soup. See under Soup timbale of, ft la Florentine, 379 k la Milanaise, 223 Macaroon custard, banana and, 462 Macaroons, croquante of, 436 Macedoine of fruits, 456 of vegetables. See under Garnish Mackerel, boiled, 136 with black butter sauce, broiled, 137 k la Maltre d'Hfitel, broiled, 137 fillets of, 137 533 Mackerel, ragofit of soft roes of (or other fish), 46 timbale with soft roes of, 223 Madeira sauce. See under Sauce Madeleines, 407 Maltre d'Hotel sauce. See under Sauce Mango sauce, 247 Maraschino Bavarian cream, 459 jelly, 456 souffid with (iced), 466 Marinade, boiled, 56 of chicken, fried, 289 cold (or pickle), 57 Marrow (beef), in cases with fine herbs, 242 croustades or patties of, 243 & la Ravigote, 242 on toast, savoury, 371 (vegetable), 351 baked, 351 a la Bechamel, 351 Marsala cup, 510 Marygolds, 423 Matelote, char in, 141 of eels a la Parisienne, 145 garnish of button onions for, 36 lamprey en, 142 Normande ragofit, 45 sauce, 9 of sole, 134 turbot as, 113 ragofit, 44 of salmon, 118 sauce. See under Sauce Mayonnaise aspic sauce, 24 of caviare, 359 of chicken, 302 sauce. See under Sauce of soles (fillets of), 161 Mazarine of goose livers k la Toulouse, 233 of whitings la V^nitienne, 233 Meat, devilled, 372 Meats, essence of fine herbs for broiled, 40 Mecca loaves, 409 Melon & l'lmpfiriale, 364 Menus of dinners, specimen, 473-508 Meringue k la Parisienne, 436 grosse, with pistachios, 437 Meringues with banana cream, 437 Mince, chicken, or salpicon for patties, 301 Mincemeat, 467 lemon, 467 k la Royale, 468 Mirepoix for braising game, 57 Mirlitons, 416 Mock turtle soup. See under Soup Moselle cup, 510 Moss gelatinous chicken broth, Ceylon, 54534 THE MODERN COOK Mousse of duck, 310 sauce for, 311 ham, 469 salmon k la Cardinal, 119 Mousseline pudding, 449 sauce, 12 Moutarde or Mustard sauce, 20 Mucilaginous broth, 53 Mulberry jelly, 455 Mullets in cases with fine herbs, 137 & la Chesterfield, 138 k la Gdnoise, 138 grey. 139 & l’ltalienne, 138 au ragofit Cardinal, 138 Mulligatawny consommd (clear), 67 soup, 96 Mushroom crofttes, 369 purde, mutton cutlets with, 246 Mushrooms, blanquelte of veal with, 260 chicken croquettes with, 301 compote of pigeons with, 306 devilled, in cases, 369 essence of, 40 fricassde of chicken with, 278 garnish of, in Allemande sauce, 32 Espagnole sauce, 32 au gratin, 344 jugged hare with, 319 purde of, 30 salmi of partridges with, 328 scallops of mutton with truffles and, 251 on toast, 373 Mussel sauce, 13 Mustard or Moutarde sauce, 20 Mutton broth, 53 caper sauce for boiled, 21 carbonade of, h la Dauphinoise, 251 a la Richelieu, 251 carbonades of, k la Flamande, 252 cutlets with artichoke purde, braised, 248 h la Bourguignote, 245 h la Bretonne, 247 with chestnut purde, 247 a la Chipolata, braised, 248 with cucumber, 246 with endive purde, 246 h l'Indienne, 247 a la Lyonnaise, braised, 248 h la Macddoine, 247 h la Maintenon, 245 h la Milanaise, 247 k la Minute, 243 with mushroom purde, 246 h la Nivernaise, 246 (another method), 246 plain, 244 k la Pompadour, braised, 248 with new potatoes, 246 A la Provenfale, braised, 249 Mutton cutlets (con/d.)— a la Russe, braised, 249 with shalot gravy, breaded, 246 k la Soubise, braised, 247 fillets of, with Chevreuil sauce, 232 haricot of, k la Nivernaise, 252 leg of, k l'Anglaise, boiled, 181 k la Bretonne, braised, 183 garnished with vegetables, braised, 182 ;\ la Jardiniere, braised, 183 a la Provenpale, braised, 182 a la Soubise, braised, 183 neck of, a l'Allemande, larded and braised, 185 :\ l'Anglaise, boiled, 184 l'lrlandaise, braised, 184 k la Jardinidre, braised, 185 a la Soubise, larded, 185 patties h la Windsor, 396 pie a l’Anglaise, 213 pudding, 214 saddle of, k la Macddoine, braised, 183 scallops of, h la Claremont, 250 with fine herbs, 250 a l'Indienne, 250 with mushrooms and truffles, 251 with olives farcies, 230 with oysters, 230 Naples or Fingers biscuits, 401 Neapolitan cake a la Chantilly, 433 Neapolitan sauce, 16 Neck of lamb. See under Lamb mutton. See under Mutton pork. See under Pork red deer. See under Deer veal. See tender Veal Noix of veal. See under Veal Nougats, 403 apricot, 419 k la Chantilly (small), 406 Parisian, 405 Nouille paste, 392 timbales of, 396 Nouilles, 208 cake k l’Allemande, 439 capon with, 208 t\ la Chasseur, timbale of, 223 cl la Palerme, 380 la Vanille, timbale of, 380 Noukles k la Viennoise, 380 Olives, garnish of carrots in, 32 devilled, 369 duckling, stewed with, 309 farcies, scallops of mutton with, 250 as hors-d'oeuvre, 360 k la Madras, 360 il la Reine, 361 stuffed, with anchovies, 361535 INDEX Olives, stuffed, with foie-gras, 361 Olla podrida or Spanish soup, 108 Omelet, banana, 442 banana (savoury), 375 burnt-almond, 443 cheese, 375 herb (savoury), 375 kidney, 375 leek, 374 a la Mar^chale, 374 oyster, 376 parmesan, 374 peach, 443 with shalots, 375 sweet (with jam), 443 Omelette & la Plombiere, 443 souffle, 442 Onions k l'Espagnole (Spanish), 345 essence of (for broiled pork), 42 sage and (for geese and ducks), 42 garnish of button (for matelote), 36 (white), 36 glazed, 37 pur6e of, a la Soubise, 29 Orange biscuits, 412 essence of (for wild fowl), 40 flower cream, 461 fritters, 426 jelly (made with calf's-foot stock), 453 k l'Anglaise, 453 ft la Franfaise, 454 garnished with quarters of oranges, 456 pudding, 448 salad, 469 Oranges, croquante of, 433 filled with jelly, 457 Ortolans in cases with Madeira sauce, 334 in croustades a la Provenfale, 334 Ouka or Russian soup, 107 Ox-cheek k l'Allemande, 192 k la Bretonne, 240 with cabbage, braised, 240 k la Flamande, 191 braised, 240 k la Jardiniere, 240 k la Polonaise, 191 k la Pompadour, 192 k la Portugaise, 192 ft la Provenfale, braised, 240 with purffe of green peas, braised, 239 soup, 99 Ox-palates, attereaux of, k la d’Uxelles, 241 cannelons of, with Poivrade sauce, 240 in cases with fine herbs, 242 curry of, 241 paupiettes of, k la Financifere, 241 pie k l’ltalienne, 219 potato border with, k l’lndienne, 225 ragoQt of, 48 Ox-palates, a la Tortue, 241 turban of, a la Pdrigueux, 231 Ox-tail soup, 97 Ox-tongue k l'Allemande, braised, 243 with aspic jelly, 193 with Brussels sprouts, 243 k la Jardiniere, 243 ;\ la Macddoine, 243 with sauerkraut, 244 with spinach, 243 Oyster chaudfroid, 363 cocktail, 363 omelet, 376 pie, beefsteak and, 213 pudding, beefsteak and, 2x4 sauce. See under Sauce soup k la Plessy, 88 Oysters, with caviare, 363 chicken saute with, 281 au naturel, 363 Richelieu style, 363 scalloped, 154 (another way), 154 scallops of mutton with, 250 sirloin steak with, 237 Palestine soup, 76 Palmettes of chicken fi la Valois, 298 Pancakes k la Celestine, 444 plain, 444 souffles, 444 Panada, bread, for quenelles, 58 chicken, 54 pate k choux, 58 pheasant or partridge, 55 venison, 55 Parisian cake, 399 loaves, 423 nougats, 405 potatoes, 354 ragoflt, 46 sauce, 11 turnover of apples, 417 Parsley sauce (parsley and butter), 19 Partridge, boudins of, a la d'Orsay, 331 au Madfere, 331 chartreuse of vegetables with, 226 crepinettes of, k la d’Estaing, 331 cutlets ft l’Algdrienne, 330 ft la Maitre d’Hdtel, 330 minced, with poached eggs, 330 panada, pheasant or, 55 pie & la Chasseur, 212 (raised), 219 purde of, k la Balzac, 102 k la Beaufort, 102 with plovers' eggs, 330 quenelle of grouse, pheasant, and, 59 soufflds of, k la Royale, 331 Partridges ft la Cerito, 326 consomme? of (or pheasants), 30 (white), 51THE MODERN COOK 536 Partridges, 4 l’Ellisler, 327 essence of game for broiled, 41 fillets of, k la Prince Albert, 328 k l’Ancienne, 328 a la Lucullus, 328 ci la Parisienne, 328 k la Plessy, 326 pur£e of, a la Conti, 101 k la Ravigote, 327 roast, 337 salmi of, with aspic jelly, 332 a la Financiere, 327 with mushrooms, 328 & la Ptirigord, 328 a la Provenpale, 327 scallops of, in cases, 329 with truffles, 329 k la Seville, 326 k la Soubise, 327 Paste, almond, 392 brioche, 397 French, for raised pies, 391 gum, 392 hot-water, for raised pies, 391 nouille. See under Nouille puff. See under Puff Paste short, for tarts, 392 for timbales, 391 soup, Italian, 68 Pasties, anchovy, 305 Pastry, bread and butter, 421 custard or cream, 419 P4t6 d’Office, 392 Patties, chicken mince or salpicon for, 301 (or croustades) of beef marrow, 243 mutton, k la Windsor, 396 Patty cases, puff-paste bouchde or, 395 Paupiettes of fillets of sole a la Cardinal, 159 of ox-palates k la Financiere, 241 Peach biscuits, 412 charlotte k la Franpaise, 464 crofites, 465 fritters, 426 omelet, 443 pudding, French, 450 Peaches, flan of, 434 4 la Reine, 458 cl la Richelieu, 465 Pea-hens, roast, 339 Pear charlotte & l'Allemande, 464 tart, 425 Pearl barley. See under Barley Pears, coquettes of, 465 4 la Florentine, 458 Peas, asparagus, lamb cutlets bread- crumbed with, 269 breast of lamb ft la Villeroi with, 268 compflte of pigeons with, 306 creamed, 349 & la Franpaise, 349 green, 349 Peas, green [con/d.)— duckling with, 309 garnish of, 35 purde of (split), 74 cl la Princesse, 79 a la Victoria, 79 fricandeau with, 255 ox-cheek braised with, 239 soup. 75 sweetbreads larded with, 262 tendons of veal with, 257 purde of, 26 a 1’Anglaise, 73 soup, lettuce and whole-, 70 stewed, 349 ducks with, 308 garnish of, 35 quails with, 311 Perch, fillets of, a l'ltalienne, 152 fillets of, water souchet of, 152 a la Stanley, 151 a la Vdnitienne, 151 & la Waterfisch, 151 Perry cup, 511 Petits-choux with caramel, 408 (Spanish cakes), 407 Pheasant a l’Allemande, 324 escallops of, k la Palerme, 322 a la Richelieu, 321 k la Victoria, 321 panada of partridge or, 55 4 la Pdrigueux, 322 potted, 4 la Royale, 384 purde of, k l'Anglaise, 102 a la Dauphine, 101 k la Royale, 101 quenelle of grouse, partridge or, roast, 336 salmi of, 4 la Bourguignote, 320 a la Brdsilienne, 320 a la Chasseur, 321 it la Paysanne, 321 Pheasants it l'aspic, 325 ii la Beauvaux, 322 with cabbages, 324 with purde of celery, 322 it la Chipolata, 322 consommd of partridges or, 50 (white), 51 ii la Dauphine, 323 il la Dauphinoise, 323 k l’Espagnole (with rice), 325 ii la Financiere, 322 4 la Flamande, 324 4 l’ltalienne, 322 , 4 la Montglas, 325 4 la Paysanne, 323 4 la Rdgence, 324 4 la Soubise, 323 Pickle, cold marinade or, 57 Pie, beefsteak and oyster, 213 capon, with truffles, 387INDEX Pie, chicken a la Reine, 211 Christmas, Yorkshire or, 388 Devonshire squab, 388 eel, 389 French rabbit with fine herbs, 217 veal and ham, 386 giblet, with fine herbs, 212 godiveau a la Ciboulette, 218 grouse, a l’Ecossaise, 212 hare and other game (preserved), 390 lark, 4 l'Essence, 220 a la Melton Mowbray, 213 Leicestershire pork, 389 leveret, a la Financiere, 218 with truffles, 218 mutton, & l’Anglaise, 213 ox-palates, 4 l'ltalienne, 219 partridge, 41a Chasseur, 212 (raised), 219 pigeon, 4 l’Anglaise, 211 quail, au Madere, 220 rabbit, 4 la sauce Poivrade, 218 salmon, 4 la Russe, 389 snipe, 4 la Bordelaise, 220 (or woodcock), 4 l’lrlandaise, 213 veal and ham, 213 Pigeon pie 4 l’Anglaise, 211 Pigeons, compote of, with mushrooms, 306 with peas, 306 4 la Crapaudine, 304 4 la Duchesse, 304 fillets of, 4 l'Allemande, 307 4 la Borghdse, 307 4 la Bourguignote, 307 4 la Villeroi, 306 a la Gauthier, 304 au gratin, 305 a la Maintenon, 305 roast, 338 4 la Seville, 305 Pig's feet 4 la St. Menehould, 274, 4 la Pdrigord, 274 4 la Richelieu, 275 Pike 4 la Chambord, 150 fillets of, 151 4 la Hollandaise, crimped, 150 fried, 150 or jack, stuffed and baked, 150 Pilaff or Pilau, Turkish, 108 Pine-apple cream 4 la Suisse, 458 cup, 510 fritters, 425 jelly, 454 pudding, 448 souffld, 441 Piquante sauce. See under Sauce Pistachio cream, 461 Pistachios, grosse meringue with, 437 Planked chicken, 289 fish, 155 lobster, 155 Salisbury steak, American,. 237 537 Planked sirloin steak with oysters, 237 Plovers' eggs, 361 purde of partridge with, 330 Plum cake, 402 pudding, 451 Poached eggs. See under Eggs Poele for poultry (white), 56 Polish (or Baba) cake, 398 cakes, 421 sauce, 10 soup, Borsch or, 106 Pomegranate jelly, 454 Pork, broiled, essence of onions for, 42 cutlets 4 l’Aurore, 274 with gravy, etc., broiled, 273 4 l'lndienne, 274 4 la Sauce Robert, 274 griskin (or spare-rib) of, 4 la Lyonnaise, 273 4 la Pdrigueux, 273 roast, 194 4 la Soubise, 273 leg of, 4 l'Allemande, boiled, 193 4 l’Anglaise, boiled, 193 roast, 194 loin of, roast, 194 neck of, roast, 194 pie, Leicestershire, 389 Portuguese fritters, 427 sauce, 15 Potato border. Sec under Border cake, 440 chips, 354 soup. See under Soup Potatoes, Anna, 470 baked in cream, 354 4 la crime au gratin, 355 4 la Crdole, 355 griddled, 354 4 la Maltre d'HStel, 353 new, 4 la creme, 355 mutton cutlets with, 246 Parisian, 354 purde of, 28 quenelles of (for soup), 80 ribbon, 353 souffld or puffed, 354 Potted bloaters, 385 fowl and tongue, 385 lobster, 385 pheasant 4 la Royale, 384 prawns or shrimps, 385 Poultry, frying batter for fillets of fish, game, or, 56 ragofit of scallops of game or, 47 white podle for, 56 Prawns, bisque of, 4 la Cerito, 87 potted shrimps or, 385 in savoury jelly, 362 Preserved hare and other game (pie), 390 Princess fritters, 426 sauce, 11THE MODERN COOK 538 Profitrolles, 408 Provenfale butter, 42 sauce. See under Sauce soup, Bouillabaisse or, 105 Prune pudding, French, 449 Pudding, apple, 451 apricot souffle, 448 banana amber, 444 beefsteak and oyster, 214 birds (small) tl la Chipolata, 215 biscuit, & la Prince Albert, 451 black, k l'Anglaise, 275 la Franfaise, 275 bread (plain), 448 brown bread, a la Gotha, 444 cabinet, 447 chestnut, 447 Italian, 450 chocolate, 449 & la Coburg, 446 & la Franfaise, 446 French peach, 450 prune, 449 ginger, 447 iced. See under Iced kidney, 215 lemon, 448 Mousseline, 449 mutton, 214 orange, 448 pine-apple, 448 plum, 451 Queen, 450 rusk, 450 sausage, 216 semolina, & la Baden, 446 snipe, k la d'Orsay, 215 tapioca cream, 451 ct la Viennoise, 447 white, k la Royale, 275 Puff paste, 393 bouch^e or patty cases, 395 plaits, 422 rings or wreaths, 421 rough, 392 tartlets, 423 walnuts, 421 Puffed potatoes, souffld or, *§54 Puffs, Krapfen or German, 445 Spanish, 426 Purde (Garnishes) of artichokes. See under Artichokes asparagus, 29 beans. See under Beans Brussels sprouts, 30 carrots (young), 26 cauliflowers, 27 celery. See under Celery chestnuts. See under Chestnuts cucumbers, 30 endive. See under Endive game. See under Game Purde of mushrooms, 30 onions i la Soubise, 29 partridge, with plovers' eggs, 330 peas. See under Peas potatoes, 28 seakale, 31 sorrel, 27 spinach, 27 tomatoes, 30 truffles, 30 turnips a la creme, 26 Purde (Soups) of artichokes, 76 asparagus. See under Asparagus beans. See under Beans carrots. See under Carrots chestnuts. See under Chestnuts endive, 77 fowl. See lender Fowl hare, k la Conti, 102 herbs, spring, 79 lentils. See under Lentils partridge. See under Partridge peas. See under Peas pheasant. See under Pheasant rabbit. See under Rabbit rice a la Chasseur, 83 roots k la Croissy, 75 spinach a la Beauvaux, 78 turnips. See under Turnips Quail cutlets k la Princesse, 313 pie au Madere, 220 Quails, bisque of, a la Prince Albert, 84 chartreuse of vegetables with, 227 croustade with, a la Bourguignonne, 230 cutlets of, a la Bordelaise, 312 a la Mardchale, 312 escallops of, with cucumbers, 314 with truffles, 314 extract of larks or (brown), 51 la Financiere, 311 k la Parisienne, 314 with stewed peas, 3x1 k la Pdrigueux, 311 roast, 337 (Messina style), 337 k la Royale, 312 soufflds of, au Madere, 313 k la Talleyrand, 313 Quenelle of fillets of small birds, 60 of fowl, 59 of fillets of grouse, pheasant, or par- tridge, 59 rabbit or hare, 59 Quenelles, bread panada for, 58 chicken. See under Chicken lobster. See under Lobster potatoes for soup, 80 salmon k la Ravigote, 157 whiting. See under Whiting Quince, apple tart with, 424INDEX Rabbit, blanquette of, a l'Ecarlate, 317 & la Bourguignonne, 315 & la Chasseur, 315 extract of hare or, 51 fillets of, a la Mardchale, 316 a la Toulouse, 316 fried in batter with Poivrade sauce, 315 a la Pdrigueux, 316 pie with fine herbs, French, 217 a la sauce Poivrade, 218 k la Provenjale, 317 pur6e of, sY la Chantilly, 103 & la Maltre d'Hdtel, 102 quenelle of hare or, 59 roast, 336 turban of, k la Financi6re, 232 Rabbits, bisque of, au Velout6, 85 consoramd of (brown), 50 polpettes of, k l'ltalienne, 317 Ragoftt, Bourguignote, 43 calf's head la Tortue, 44 Cardinal, 46 of chickens’ wings, 48 Chipolata, 44 of cocks' kernels k la Soubise, 47 crayfish, 43 Financiere, 44 & la Godard, 187 Matelote, 44 Normande, 45 ox-palates, 48 Parisian, 46 Pdrigueux, 44 Regent’s, 48 Richelieu, 47 Rouennaise, 45 of scallops of larks, 47 poultry or game, 47 soft roes of mackerel or other fish, 46 salmon or trout, 46 soles, 46 sweetbreads, 46 of sheeps' tongues k l’Ecarlate, 48 Strasbourg, of fat livers, 44 Toulouse, 43 venison, 276 Raised pies, force-meat of liver and ham for, 160 French paste for, 391 hot-water paste for, 391 Ramequin, cheese (baked), 371 Raspberries, souffle of, 442 Raspberry cheese, currant and (trans- parent), 463 jelly, currant and, 453 sauce, 471 Ravigote butter. See under Butter sauce. See under Sauce Raviolis, 103 & la Napolitaine, 103 timbale of, k la Romaine, 223 539 Red or coral mayonnaise sauce. See under Sauce Red cabbages. See wider Cabbages Red-currant jelly sauce for venison, 16 Red deer. See under Deer Reeves, roast ruffs and, 337 Ribbon potatoes, 353 Rice, apples and (ornamented), 432 apples and (plain), 433 baked bananas with, 434 cake with almonds, 438 capon with, 207 casserole of. See under Casserole chicken minced with, 300 consomm6 with, 68 cream of, k la Cardinal, 82 & la Juvenal, 82 k la Royale, 82 k la Victoria, 82 croquettes for soup, 104 pheasants k l’Espagnole with, 325 pudding & la Cintra, iced, 428 souffld of, 441 soup. See under Soup timbale of, 439 Rissoles, 468 Roe, cod’s, on toast, 367 Roebuck, civet of, 278 cutlets a la Chasseur, 277 fillets of beef dressed as Chevreuil or (braised), 167 & la Kinnaird, 278 with Poivrade sauce, 278 Piquante sauce for,- 17 Roes, herring, k la Lucullus, 373 (soft) of mackerel or other fish, ragoflt of, 46 (soft) of mackerel, timbale with, 223 Roil of beef. See under Beef Rolls, asparagus, 347 herring, 362 Rough puff paste, 392 Round of beef. See under Beef Roux, brown, or thickening for Brown sauce, 58 white, or thickening for sauces, 57 Royals, 419 » Ruffs and reeves, roast, 337 Rump of beef. See under Beef Rump-steak (plain), 233 Rusk pudding, 450 Rusks or Zwiebach, German, 403 Russian biscuits, 414 charlotte, 461 jelly, 457 kniokis, 372 salad, 356 sauce, 10 soup, Ouka or, 107 Tschi, or cabbage soup, 108 Saddle of Lamb. See under LambTHE MODERN COOK 54° Saddle of Mutton. See under Mutton Sage and onions for geese and ducks. essence of, 42 Salad, Ambigue, 358 asparagus, 348 banana and walnut, 359 Chantecler, 357 chicken, 302 cucumber, tomato and, 358 dandelion, 359 Derby, 357 egg, a la Printaniere, 358 French bean, 357 German, 356 haricot bean, 357 (mixed), 31:7 Henri IV., 358 Hortoise, 358 Italian, 356 Lobster, 162 orange, 469 Russian, 356 tomato and cucumber, 358 Toulouse, 357 Vaudeville, 358 walnut, banana and, 359 . Salmi of duckling, 310 partridges. See under Partridges pheasant. See under Pheasant sauce. See wider Sauce snipe a la Bordelaise, 333 widgeon or teal, 335 wild duck, 334 woodcock. See under Woodcock Salmon k l’Anglaise, 118 boudins of, k l'ltalienne, 156 a la Cardinal, 117 &. la Chambord, 116 cutlets a la Maintenon, 157 darne or slice of, k la Montpellier, 161 devilled smoked, 366 & l'Ecossaise, 118 fillets of, a l’Aurore, 157 k la Parisienne, 157 la G6noise, 116 a la Mardchale, 117 matelote of, 1x8 mousse of, k la Cardinal, 119 pie, & la Russe, 389 quenelles of, h la Ravigote, 157 ragoftt of scallops of trout or, 46 & la R^gence, 116 sandwiches, 383 souffles k la Gauloise (cold), 119 la Tartare, 118 & la Wnitienne, 1x9 i la Verdi, 119 fi. la Victoria, 117 vol-au-vent of, fi. la Ravigote, 221 water souchet of crimped, 120 plain, 120 Salpicon for patties, chicken mince or, 301 .Salsify k la crime, 340 fried, 341 scalloped, 340 Salt fish. See under Fish Sandwiches, anchovy, 382 Badminton, 381 Bretby, 382 Chasseur, 383 cheese, 384 egg, 383 foie-gras, 384 Indian, 382 Milanaise, 384 Normandy, 384 it la Rigence, 381 salmon, 383 of fillets of soles, 381 summer, 382 Swedish, 383 Tartare, 384 Sardine canapes, 365 Sardines, smoked, 362 Sauce, Albert, 12 Allemande, 3 garnish of mushrooms in, 32 anchovy, 18 aromatic, 9 aspic-jell}’, 24 aspic-mayonnaise, 24 Aurora, 11 Bearnaise, 468 Bichamel, 3 cream, 3 for salt fish, 22 beurre noir, or black butter, 22 Bigarade, 9 black butter, beurre noir or, 22 broiled mackerel with, 137 calf’s brains with, 267 skate with, 153 black-currant jelly (for venison), 16 boar’s head, 25 (another method), 25 Bordelaise, 14 Bourguignote, 8 brawn, 25 bread, 19 fried, 19 Bretonne, 8 Brown, Espagnole or, 3 Italian, 5 oyster, 13 roux or thickening for, 58 butter, 17 artichokes with, 345 for asparagus, 18 seakale with, 355 black, or beurre noir. See under Black Butter Cambridge, 22 caper (for fish), 2t fillets of gurnet with, 158INDEX 54i Sauce, caper (for boiled mutton), 21 cardinal, 13 celery, boiled turkey with, 205 cherry, 15 Victoria, 16 chevreuil (piquante sauce for roebuck), 17 fillets of mutton with, 252 chocolate, 471 Claremont, 15 Colbert or fine herbs, 5 calf’s liver fried with, 267 coral mayonnaise, red or, 24 crayfish, 14 cream (for roast neck of veal), 20 Bechamel, 3 or Bechamel (for salt fish), 22 curry, Indian, 12 plain, 21 devil's, 22 Dutch, Hollandaise or, it broiled haddock with, 130 trout with, 122 plain, 19 d'Uxelles, 5 egg, 20 (another method), 21 cod's sounds and, 131 boiled haddock with, 130 Espagnole or Brown, 3 braised celery with, 339 garnish of mushrooms in, 32 fennel, 18 Flemish, 21 fried bread, 19 game supreme, 10 & la Gasconne, 17 Genoise, 9 German custard, 447 egg, 400 sweet, 15 gherkin, 6 sheep's tongues with, 254 gooseberry, 19 green mayonnaise, 24 ravigote, 6 hatelet, 10 herbs, fine, Colbert or, 5 Hollandaise, Dutch or, 11 Indian curry, 12 Italian, calf's feet fried with, 266 veal and ham fillets with, 261 brown, 5 white, 5 lemon, 471 liver, 336 lobster, 14 plain, 18 Lyonnaise, 7 Madeira or Madfere, 4 braised rib of beef with, 173 ortolans in cases with, 334 Sauce, Maitre d’Hotel, n (cold), 11 mango, 247 matelote, 9 calf’s brains with, 267 Normande, 9 mayonnaise, 23 aspic, 24 green, 24 red or coral, 24 for mousse of duck, 311 mousseline, 12 moutarde or mustard, 20 mussel, 13 Neapolitan, 16 Norman matelote, 9 Orleans, 22 oyster, crimped cod and, 127 boiled turkey with, 205 brown, 13 cod and, 126 white, 13 Parisian, n parsley (parsley and butter), 19 pascaline, 5 Pdrigueux, 7 piquante, 6 calf’s head with, 189 for roebuck, 17 poivrade, 8 cannelons of ox-palates with, 240 fillets of hare larded with, 317 roebuck with, 278 rabbit & la, 218 fried in batter with, 315 cold, 25 Polish, 10 poor man's, 6 Portuguese, 15 princess, 11 Printanifere, 468 Provenfale (cold), 25 (hot), 8 raspberry, 471 ravigote, green, 6 plain, 19 white, 6 red-currant jelly (for venison), 16 red or coral mayonnaise, 24 regency, 13 Rdmoulade, 23 Robert, 16 pork cutlets h la, 274 Russian, 10 salmi, 4 k l’Ancienne, 4 shrimp, 14 fried soles with, 132 plain, 18 Sicilian, 15 sturgeon, 14 supreme, 10THE MODERN COOK 542 Sauce, supreme, game, 10 garnish of truffles with, 32 sweet, German, 15 Tartare, 23 tomato, 7 calf’s ears fried with, 266 chicken with, 286 fritot of chicken with, 284 savoury crab with, 367 turtle (for calf’s head), 4 vanilla, 471 Velouffl, White, 3 Venetian, 8 Waterfisch (for boiled fresh - water fish), 21 White, asparagus with, 347 cauliflower with, 343 Italian, 5 oyster, 13 ravigote, 6 Veloutd, 3 Sauces, cold, 22-25 foundation, 3-4 hot, 4-22 stock, Brown and White, 1-2 roux or thickening for (Brown), 58 (White), 57 Sauerkraut, garnish of, 39 French, 39 ox-tongue with, 244 Sausage pudding, 216 Savoy biscuit a la Chantilly, swan of, 438 cake, 401 glazed ham of, 438 Scalloped calf's brains, 267 lamb's sweetbreads, 271 lobster, 366 oysters, 154 (another way), 154 salsify, 340 Scallops of cod a la Bechamel, 129 larks, ragofit of, 47 mutton. See under Mutton partridges. See under Partridges poultry or game, ragofit of, 47 salmon or trout, ragofit of, 46 sheep’s tongues and fine herbs, potato border garnished with, 225 of soles, ragofit of, 46 of sweetbreads, ragofit of, 46 venison, 277 Scotch bread, 402 broth, 69 collops, 261 Scrambled eggs. See under Eggs Seakale with butter sauce, 355 puMe of, 31 Seed cake (plain), 403 Semolina cake, 440 pudding ft la Baden, 446 soup. See under Soup Shalot gravy, mutton cutlets breaded with, 246 sweetbreads with, 264 Shalots, essence of, 40 omelet with, 375 Sheep's head a la Gallimaufre, 255 kidneys a la Brochette, 254 a la Claremont, 255 ft l’Epicurienne, 254 with fine herbs, 254 (another method), 254 tongues, 253 ft l'Ecarlate with spinach, 253 and fine herbs, potato border gar- nished with scallops of, 225 with gherkin sauce, 254 ft la Maintenon, 253 a la Napolitaine, 253 ragofit of, a l’Ecarlate, 48 Shellfish soups, bisques and, 84-88 Short paste for tarts, 392 for timbales, etc., 391 Shoulder of lamb. See under Lamb Shrimp sauce. See under Sauce Shrimps or prawns, potted, 385 Sicilian biscuits, 414 sauce. See under Sauce Sirloin steak with oysters, planked, 237 Skate with black butter sauce, 153 crimped (boiled), 152 (fried), 153 k la Pascaline, 153 with fine herbs au gratin, 153 fried, ft l’ltalienne, 153 a la Royale, 153 Smelts, fried, 143 Smoked salmon, devilled, 366 sardines, 362 Snails, decoction of (for inveterate coughs), 53 Snipe pie a la Bordelaise, 220 (or woodcock) a 1'Irlandaise, 213 pudding & la d'Orsay, 215 roast woodcock or, 338 salmi of, ft la Bordelaise, 333 Snipes, bisque of, ft la bonne bouche, 85 Sole au gratin, 133 matelote Normande of, 134 ft la Plessy, 134 turban of, & la Ximenes, 232 Soles, boiled, 132 fi. la Colbert, 133 fillets of, a la Bagration, soup of, 89 ft la Catalane, 135 ft la Diana, 134 ft la Dioctetien, 135 ft la Marcelle, 135 ft la Normande, 135 sandwiches of, 381 water souchet of, 132 whitebait style, 135 with fine herbs, 133INDEX 543 Soles, fried, with shrimp sauce, 132 a la Mar6chale, 134 k la Parisienne, 133 ragout of scallops of, 46 Sorrel, pur£e of, 27 Souffle of apricots, 441 banana, 440 brown-bread, a l'Allemande, 442 au caf6, iced, 466 chocolate, 441 coffee, 441 ginger, 441 with maraschino, iced, 466 omelette, 442 pine-apple, 441 or puffed potatoes, 354 of raspberries, 442 of rice, 441 vanilla, 440 Souffles, cheese, 370 pancakes, 444 of partridge a la Royale, 331 of quails au Madere, 313 salmon, a la Gauloise (cold), 119 spinach, 341 Sounds (cod’s). See under Cod Soup a la B<5arnaise, 105 bonne femme, 81 Borsch or Polish, 106 Bouillabaisse or Provencale, 105 bread, a la Jardiniere, 71 A la Princesse, 72 Bretonne, 73 cabbage, Russian Tschi or, 108 calf’s-feet, k la Windsor, 97 chicken and rice, 68 cock-a-leekie, 68 Cr£cy with whole rice, 79 croquettes (rice) for, 104 of crusts gratinated k la Royale, 72 cucumber cream, 468 deer's-head, k la Chasseur, 100 eel, k la Richmond, 89 k la Fabert, 78 a la Faubonne, 78 a la Ferney, 78 of fillets of flounders k l'Anglaise, 90 giblet, 96 a l'lrlandaise (clear), 97 grouse, 100 haddock cream, 88 hare, 98 k la St. George, 99 k la Hollandaise, 81 Italian paste, 68 Lasagnes, 68 Lettuce and whole-pea, 70 leveret, 99 macaroni (clear), 67 & la M6dicis, 109 k la St. Pierre, no k la Royale, 109 I Soup, mock-turtle, 95 (clear), 95 mulligatawny, 96 nutritive, 49 Olla podrida or Spanish, 108 Ouka or Russian, 107 Ox-cheek, 99 Ox-tail, 97 oyster, k la Plessy, 88 Palestine, 76 peas, green, 75 i la Pi6montaise, 105 Polish, Borsch or, 106 potato, k la creme, 80 k la Victoria, 80 Provenpale, Bouillabaisse or, 105 quenelles of potatoes for, 80 rice, with asparagus points (clear), 68 chicken and, 68 Cr£cy with whole, 79 & la Florentine, 104 veal and, 69 Russian, Ouka or, 107 Tschi or cabbage, 108 semolina a la Palermo, no k la Pisane, no k la V6uitienne, no of fillets of soles a la Bagration, 89 Spanish, Olla podrida or, 108 Sportsman’s clear, 71 Spring clear, 62 sturgeon, k l'Am6ricaine, 90 & l'Anglaise, 91 k la Chinoise, 91 k l’lndienne, 92 tomato, 468 turtle, 92 (clear), 94 veal and rice, 69 vermicelli clear, 67 Soups, Condd crusts for, 73 in general, consomm6 for, 49 Spaghetti a la creme, 379 Spanish cakes (petits-choux), 407 onions k l’Espagnole, 345 puffs, 426 soup, Olla podrida or, 108 Spare-rib of pork. See under Pork Spinach, braised ham with, 196 with butter, 341 with cream, 342 friandises, 372 grenadins of veal with, 257 ox-tongue with, 243 with poached eggs, 341 pur6e of, 27 & la Beauvaux (soup), 78 sheep's tongues k l’Ecarlate with, 253 souffles, 341 Spitchcocked eels, 143 Spongada di Roma, 466 di Toledo, 467THE MODERN COOK 544 Sponge, banana and tapioca, 462 Steak, American Salisbury planked, 237 beef. See under Beef rump (plain), 233 sirloin, with oysters (planked), 237 Steaks, etc., essence of anchovies for, 42 Stock, calf’s - foot (orange jelly made with), 453 common or foundation, for general purposes, 1 sauces, Brown and White, 1 Strasbourg ragout of fat livers, 44 Strawberry cream (Bavarian), 460 cream (Celestina), 462 cup, 510 jelly, 455 Stuffing, veal, 468 Sturgeon a l’Anglaise, 126 a la Beaufort, 123 blanquette of, 157 & la Bourguignote, 125 k la Cardinal, 123 & la Dauphine, 124 k la G6noise, 124 au gratin with fine herbs, 125 & l’lndienne, 125 la P^rigord, 125 & la Russe, 126 sauce, 14 soup. See under Soup Sucking-pig k l'Anglaise, roast, 194 a la Chipolata, roast, 196 k la Napolitaine, roast, 196 4 la IY-rigord, roast, 195 k la Provenyale, roast, 196 Supreme of fowl. See under Fowl of fruits k la Victoria, 465 sauce. See under Sauce Swan of savoy biscuit k la Chantilly, 438 Swedes, 411 Sweetbreads & la St. Cloud, 263 & la Conti, 263 croquettes of, 265 k la Dauphine, 264 k la d’Uxelles, 264 dpigramme of, 264 lamb’s. See under Lamb k la Mar^chale, 265 & la Monarque, 263 & la Parisienne, 263 larded with green peas, 262 & la Poulette, 265 ragofit of scallops of, 46 with shalot gravy, 264 & la Soubise, 265 Sweet sauce, German, 15 Swiss leckerlets, 413 Syrup for jellies, clarified, 453 Talmouses, 420 with cheese, 420 Tapioca cream pudding, 451 Tapioca, sponge, banana and, 462 Tart, apple, with quince, 424 banana, French, 415 pear, 425 Tartare sandwiches, 384 sauce, 23 Tartines k la Lucullus, 364 Tartlets, apple, 422 (another method), 422 cherry, 422 Coventry, 424 filbert cream, 424 mosaic, 423 puff paste, 423 Tarts in general, fruit, 425 short paste for, 392 Teal, fillets of wild duck, widgeon, or, k la Bigarade, 335 salmi of widgeon or, 335 Timbale of macaroni. See under Maca- roni of nouilles. See under Nouilles raviolis a la Romaine, 223 rice, 439 with roes (soft), of mackerel, 223 veal and ham, 386 Timbales, egg, la Cardinal (cold), 377 of nouille paste, 396 short paste for, 391 Toast, cod’s roe on, 367 Cornwall, 368 curried, 368 haddock (savoury) on, 366 marrow (savoury) on, 371 mushrooms on, 373 tongue, 368 woodcock, 371 Tomato and cucumber salad, 358 sauce. See under Sauce savoury, anchovy and, 369 soup, 468 Tomatoes a la Chasseur, 343 with foie-gras, 344 au gratin, 344 & la Provencale, 343 purde of, 30 stuffed (cold), 344 Tongue cutlets ft la Reine, chicken and, 284 potted fowl and, 385 ox. See under Ox-tongue toast, 368 Tongues (sheep’s). See under Sheep Tournedos k la Ventadour, 238 Tourte of apricots, German, 417 cases for entries, 394 of godiveau au Madire, 222 of lobster k la Cardinal, 222 of whiting k la Dauphine, 222 Transparent cheese, currant and rasp- berry, 463 Trout k l’Aurore, 122INDEX 545 Trout in cases with fine herbs, 122 k la Chevaliire, 121 with Dutch sauce, broiled, 122 fillets of, k la Chevaliere, x6o dpigrammes of, 160 h. la Rdgence, 160 & la Savoie, 122 a la Gasconne, 121 au gratin, 121 4 l'ltalienne, 121 h la Meuniere, 120 ragoftt of scallops of salmon or, 46 k la Royale, 122 h la Vertpre, 161 Truffles, capon stuffed with, a la Peri- gord, 205 escallops of quails with, 314 essence of, 40 garnish of. See under Garnish larks with, a l'ltalienne, 315 pie with, 218 (capon) with, 387 a la Pidmontaise, 345 potato border with larks and, 223 purde of, 30 scallops of mutton with mushrooms and, 251 partridges with, 329 scrambled eggs with. See under Eggs h la Serviette, 345 supreme of fowl with, 291 Tschi or cabbage soup, Russian, 108 Tunny fish, 362 Turban of chicken a la Prince de Galles, 231 of hare h la Conti, 232 of ox-palates k la Perigueux, 231 of rabbit cl la Financiere, 232 of sole h la Ximenes, 232 Turbot k l'Anglaise, plain boiled, nx & la Bechamel, 114 h la Cartime, 112 k la crfeme au gratin, 113 (another way), 113 fillets of, k la Cardinal, 115 i I’Indienne, 114 & l'ltalienne, 115 h la Ravigote, 115 h la Vertre, 115 h la Marechale, 114 as Matelote Normande, 113 fl la Parisienne, 111 h la Provenfale, broiled, 112 k la Vatel, 113 vol-au-vent of, h la Bechamel, 221 Turkey k l’Anglaise, roast, 204 with celery sauce, boiled, 205 k la Chipolata, roast, 204 k la Financiere, roast, 205 k la Florentine, 20s with oyster sauce, boiled, 205 Turkey, a la Perigord, roast, 204 Turkish Pilaff or Pilau, 108 Turnips, duck braised with, 308 garnish of. See under Garnish glazed, 349 pur^e of. See under Puree Turnover of apples, Parisian, 417 Turtle sauce. See under Sauce soup. See under Soup Udder, preparation of calf’s, 59 Vanilla sauce, 471 souffle, 440 Variegated jelly h la Victoria, 456 Veal, blanquette of, with mushrooms, 260 breast of, k l'Anglaise, roast, 180 k la Bourgeoise, 180 k la Financiere, roast, 181 k la Romaine, rolled, 181 a la Royale, rolled, 181 k la Windsor, 180 chartreuse of vegetables with, 227 croquettes of, 261 cutlets k la Dreux, 259 cl la Duchesse, 260 k la Financiere, 259 in papillotes, 260 k la Perigord, 260 h la 2ingara, 260 fillet of, a l'Anglaise, roast, 174 k la Jardiniere, roast, 174 k la Macedoine, roast, 174 fillets with Italian sauce, ham and, 261 gravy, Blond de veau or, 52 grenadins of, with spinach, 257 kernel of, with artichoke puree, 258 & la Duchesse, 258 cl la Talleyrand, 259 loin of, k l'Anglaise, roast, 177 k la creme, roast, 179 k la Dauphine, 178 k la Financiere, roast, 179 k la Montglas, roast, 178 h la Royale, 179 minced, with poached eggs, 261 (another method), 262 h la Portuguaise, 262 neck of, cl la creme, roast, 174 k la Dreux, 175 k la d'Uxelles, 175 h l’Ecarlate, 175 k la Montmorency, braised, 174 roast, cream sauce for, 20 noix of, fi la Financiere, 177 fi la St. George, 176 & la Jardiniere, 177 h la Macedoine, 177 h la Rdgence, 256 k la Toulouse, 257 2 N546 THE MODERN COOK Veal and ham pie (French), 213, 386 timbale, 386 roast, brown gravy for, 20 stuffing, 468 tendons of, with green peas, 23 a la Villeroi, 258 Vegetable marrow. See under Marrow Vegetables, beef (roll of) garnished with glazed, 166 calf's liver braised with, 266 chartreuse. See -under Chartreuse macedoine of (brown), 35 (white), 35 mutton, braised (leg of), garnished with, 182 Venetian biscuits, 41 x sauce. See -under Sauce Venison chops, 277 civet of, 276 fry, 277 haricot of, 276 haunch of, a l'Allemande, 200 roasted k l'Anglaise, 200 a la St. George, 200 panada, 55 ragofit of, 276 sauce. See under Sauce scallops of, 277 Vermicelli cake, 439 soup (clear), 67 Victoria biscuits, 415 cake, 400 Vol-au-vent cases for entries, 394 of cod h la creme, 221 of fish (salt) k l'Anglaise, 221 au Mad&re, 221 4 la Nesle, 220 of salmon k la Ravigote, 221 of turbot & la Bechamel, 221 Walnut salad, banana and, 359 Walnuts, croquante of fresh, 436 puff-paste, 421 Water souchet of fillets of perch, 152 of soles, 132 Water souchet of salmon. See under Salmon Welsh rarebit, 470 Westphalia ham. See under Ham Whitebait, 154 Whiting, boudins of, a la Supreme, 156 dolphins of, a la Parisienne, 160 mazarine of, it la Vdnitienne, 233 poult, 139 quenelle of, 60 quenelles of, a la Princesse, 156 tourte of, a la Dauphine, 222 Whitings, boiled, 140 broiled, 141 fillets of, k la Maitre d'Hotel, 139 a la Mardchale, 140 a l'Orly, 139 a la Royale, 140 fried, 140 Widgeon a l'Amdricaine, 335 fillets of wild duck, teal or, k la Bigarade, 335 or teal, salmi of, 335 Wild duck. See tender Duck fowl. See wider Fowl goose. See under Goose Windsor beans. See under Beans Wine cup, 511 Woodcock, croutons for, 332 essence of, 41 fillets of, a l'Ancienne, 333 a la Pdrigueux, 333 a la Financiere, 332 a la Pdrigord, 332 pie, a l'lrlandaise, snipe or, 213 roast snipe or, 338 salmi of, a la Bourguignote, 333 a la Minute, 333 toast, 371 Yam a la Franpaise, American, 353 Yorkshire or Christmas pie, 388 Zephires of crab ;\ la Royale, 161 Zwiebach, German rusks or, 403 THE END Printed by R. & R. Clark, Limited, Edinburgh.Cr01V71 8 vo. 5-f. 24M Editio7i. 67 fh Thousand. THE COOK'S GUIDE AND HOUSEKEEPER’S AND BUTLER’S ASSISTANT BY CHARLES ELM£ FRANCATELLI MACMILLAN AND CO., Ltd., LONDON.IRECORD OF TREATMENT, EXTRACTION, REPAIR, etc. Pressmark: Binding Ref No: 3>2.o2. Microfilm No: Date Particulars n| uh? Chemical Treatment Fumigation Deacidification \ f 7 Lamination Solvents Leather Treatment Adhesives Remarks