. ... * Pi* imiDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b21712748A Jt o/ £ DESCRIPTION OF THE J/Z'.- ARTERIES D*? OF THE V^' HUMAN BODY. y f ' fl.c' RE Z^$LES. BY ADOLPHUS MURRAY, M. D. £r*v R. and O. PROFESSOR or ANATOMY 'and SURGERY at UPSAL. \ \ TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL by ARCHD SCOTT, student of physic. Printed by Join Brown, Anchor Close, FOR G. G. AND J. ROBINSON, LONDON f AND 1ELL & BRADFVTE, AND E. BALFOUR, EDINBURGH■ 1801. [€ntcreti in ©tatioitcrji lpall.3T • / /T O Dr BARCLAY. Dear Sir, Nothing but the defire of com- plying with your requeft, and the confidence I had, as a Pupil, in your affiftance in every difficulty, could have induced me tQ attempt the following Translation. From the high approbation I have heard you fo often exprefs of the original in your Public Lectures on Anatomy, I am happy to think that, at a time when Literary Productions are lefs eafily procured from the Continent, I have it in my power, by the Translation I now prefent to you, to render thefe Tables of the Arteries more generally known. I am, Dear Sir, With fincere efteem. Your affectionate Pupil and Friend, Edinburgh, 1 Dec. 1800. J ARCH0 SCOTT.) t i • 1 V ■ * V - - ' « ■ T ;■ . : J - . \ • )t\ ■ ■' ; n- :t r'v>i‘' /" ‘ - : : • ■ /:• :: - ; '' rVTT- t . ? r < TV- '£ rTHE TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. While Profeflor Murray’s Description of the Arteries (Publilhed at Upsal in 1798) is not infe- rior in minutenefs and accuracy to thofe of Haller, Sabbatier, and Meyer, it far exceeds them with refped to concifenefs, clearnefs, and arrangement. It is divided into two Sections: the fird, comprehend- ing the branches from the Arch ; the fecond, the branches from the Defcending Aorta. In both Sec- tions, the Fird, Second, and Third, and all the fuc- ceeding feries of arteries, are, when defcribed, either didinguilhed by peculiar marks, or printed in a dif- ferent character. The reader, therefore, can eafily perceive, by a glance of the eye, to what feries an ar- tery belongs; and may, if he choofe, perufe the de- feription of any particular feries of branches indepen- dently of the red. The fulnefs and accuracy of the defeription ; the decided fupeiioritv of arrangement j the facility with which it may be confulted \ and the numerous ad- a vantagesVI THE TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. vantages it, prefents to ftudents of anatomy—Were thought, with other motives, fufficient inducements to undertake the tranflation. In performing which talk, I have conftantly endeavoured to render faith- fully the meaning of my author, and to do it as clear- ly as the idioms of the two languages would admit. I have ventured, however, to change the names of a few mufcles for thofe fynonymes by which they are better known in this country: and where a mufcle was exprefled by a fingle epithet, as profundus inter- qffeus, I have preferred the Latin to the Englilh name; as the former is not only equally familiar, but, when it is a noun of the fecond declenfion, diftin- guiflies alfo the mufcle from the artery by its termina- tion. As Profeffor Murray, in defcribing the arteries of the hand, has fubftituted the terms Radial, Ulnar, Vo- raly and Dorfal, for the vague and relative terms Ex- ternal, Internal, Anterior, and Pofterior, I have ex- tended his mode of exprelfion to the foot; and in- ilead of Internal and External Side, have fubftituted the terms Tibial and Fibular. For this reafon, the word Peroneal, when applied to an artery, has been rejected, as being of Greek origin, and as not entering fo properly into compounds with the Latin terms. ' WhereTHE TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. vii Where he has ufed fometimes more, and fometimes fewer epithets, in defcribing the artery, I have regu- larly, where there was no danger of ambiguity, pre- ferred the leffer number, and have ventured to con- vert them into compounds. Thus, I have called a branch of the Humeral Profunda the Profunda Ra- dial, inflead of the Larger Communicating Radial branch of the Profunda Humeri. \ I have only to add, that in all thofe cafes where Ulnar, Radial, Tibial, and Fibular, are the lafl words of a compound, they denote lituation or direction and when the firfl, lituation or origin. Where any other changes are made, intimation is given in the Notes. My reafon for prefixing a Table of Contents in Englilli and Latin, including the names of the prin- cipal arteries, with a reference to the pages where they are defcribed, requires, I hope, no explanation. The utility of this Table will foon be perceived by the young Anatomift. THEii/ ■ --'vj.- -.1 • .■■ .* 1 ■ \ ;r.ii i -u.H'n ■ a.ili ■ : ; ; 11 ; , ' •' ' i< ■ ,.«!#& a ''' -flt'.o oi ir/iahn ■ 3-, c i ■ a, >:!>vu b ; ! . : r n' ' r ; > ' r V ' W • \*V i.\.t\' 1' v: VlY.V.,A ' ■ - v ■ ■: , ,'vV . ' . , V. • . ' ? 1 ■' " • ■: . i |i <7 : : ; a . . 1 * , •• • •’>’ v,■' ' • :< ! . •. ’. 1 • . i. »'liL ;! U '{ n"iJ , • • •. v . V i . 1, sr; )riV' ,!j; ij‘ ■ r Cji.; .if a.'.: • i * A .il/u a . 1 ;> : /. . ; ’ •. . >— r.ir tn .icu ■ ' .-j • ■ *,ai ■ ' ' -;;i f[ >flj lo 33.7! >.:!? iaf ' 1 ‘ i-n» J.U' C.i'-J: . •. I.. • * \r, ri;<{ • i fqxa • " \d y.tjyuq ■>: r»'K!> lfiv< f.jff:. 1 1 • • ■7re . SVTTHE author’s preface. As the mind of man cannot be more agreeably or more ufefully employed, than in the inveftigation of thofe arts and fciences, which no lefs tend to preferve and augment our happinefs than to obviate the evils to which we are fubjeCt ; fo, in examining tlie diffe- rent parts of the Human Body, anatomifts have par- ticularly attended to the properties and courfes of the veffels, confidering that this ftudy would afford an eafy accefs to the knowledge of the different func- tions of the animal oeconomy, and with more certain- ty enable them to cure thofe diforders which arife from any lelion of the parts. Accordingly, thofe who anciently cultivated anatomy, as well as the reltorers of that feience, were principally occupied in deferi- bing the veffels, and exploring their diftributions, di- rections, and varieties; which laudable induftry has been fo well fupported by later obfervers, and the doCtrine of the veffels fo fully treated of in many ele- gant works, that the fubjeCt feems to be exhaufted. a 3 ButTHE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. X But as the honour of difcovering the circulation is due to the immortal Harvey, fo it is chiefly owing to him that anatomifts have ftudied the arteries with fuch attention, without confining themfelves fo parti- cularly as the ancients, to the defcription of the veins. The circulation being difcovered, the inquirers into Nature foon invented the art of imitating it, by means of a ceraceous preparation, in the dead fubject, and thereby of inveftigating the veffels with more accura- cy. They perceived foon, that the difiribution of the arteries, even where their ramifications are moft mi- nute, are much more regular than the veins; and that the branches of thefe laft, being infinitely diverfified, feem fcarcely to admit of a certain and uniform de- fcription. By fuch difcoveries, an ardent and inflexible perfeverence being roufed in anatomifis, they began to fcrutinil'e every part of the human body feparately.; and not only corrected many ancient errors which had crept into the fcience, but obferved alfo, in every part, the principal varieties which fometimes take place in the difiribution of its arteries; and thus, as might well be expected, obtained a much more accu- rate knowledge of the firudture than could be acqui- red by thofe who examined the whole body in a fu- perficial and general manner. ITHE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. ' XI I forbear mentioning thofe authors who have de- fcribed the arteries, fince to thofe who have been ini- tiated into anatomical ftudies the moft of them are known or recommended. The great defect of thefe illuftrious writers is, that almoft all of them have ca- pricioufly changed the ancient denominations of the ramifications, and impofed new ones of their own. By this means the young inquirer is led into many errors, and the fxudy of anatomy itfelf has been not a little retarded. To remedy thefe inconveniences was the defign of the illuftrious. Haller. He, as it / were, having made this branch of anatomy his own, explained their diftributions more accurately and ele- gantly than had hitherto been done: nor was this all; hut whenever he faw it neceflary to fubftitute new or more apt denominations, he ftill took notice of the pld ones in their proper place. Few, it is to be re- gretted, make fufficient ufe of this rich treafure of anatomical knowledge, and examine properly thofe excellent drawings in the work, which are Nature it- felf. Among thofe, however, who deferve praife for their inquiries into this fubjeCt, I cannot forbear men- tioning with approbation Sabbatier and Meyer. Thefe anatomifts have indeed changed many of the « 4 namesTHE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. names impofed by Haller; but their writings are re* markably perfpicuous, and they have faithfully given the obfervations of Haller in their Compends. The figures which accompany the work of Meyer are re- duced to a fmaller form ; but are accurate, fair, and extremely ufeful in diftedion. The great fcope of this illuftrious author feems to have been to furnifla a rule to young diftedors; to which, in examining the human body, they might reduce their inquiries, and, at the fame time, that they might be able, by his fhort Compend, to commit their obfervations more eafily to memory. It feemed to me, however, more ufeful to * reduce into Sciagraphical Tables the Divifions of the Ramifications which proceed from the Aorta; fo that any obfervations concerning a particular branch might more readily ftrike the eye, and be remembered with, greater facility. Having derived great advantage from tables of this kind which 1 had formed for my private ufe, I could not help communicating them to my illuftrious col- leagues, by whom they were exhibited as exercifes; and they arc now prefented to the Public in a more polilhed and corred form. I have followed every- where the draughts of the illuftrious Haller; which, ■as well as thofe obfervations I was accuftomed to writeTHE AUTHOR’S PREFACE. Xlll write down upon difle&ing bodies, I have frequently and carefully examined. Thefe have led me, in feme places, to invert the order in which the fmaller branch- es rife from their trunks. I have nowhere changed the nomenclature of Haller, fince I willingly follow the authority of lo great a man. Left thefe Tables fhould have too much the appearance of a catalogue, I have briefly defetribed the courfe of every particu- lar branch, if not very anomolous. I earneftly wifti that this Eflay may be generally ufeful, and efpecially to young anatomifts, for whom it was principally in- tended. CONTENTS.■ . <r.. ■ • rrf jv - i . r-.i. ■ 1 £>:■ ’ j .V . ■ * ) ■ !> ' . .CONTENTS PAGE, THE AORTA, \ AORTA, - l SECTION I. BRANCHES from the ARCH of the AORTA. » 4 I. Right Coronary, Arteria Coronaria Dextra ib. II. Left Coronary, Sinistra, 5 III. Right Subclavian, Subclavian, 6 IV. Common Carotid, Carotis Communis, ib. Common Carotid, Carotis Communis, 7 External carotid, Arteria carotis externa, ib. Superior thyroid, thyroidea fuperior ib. Lingual, lingualis, S Labial, labialis. 9 Afcending pharyngeal, pharyngea afcendens *3 Occipital, occipitalis, 14 Pofterior auricular, auricularis pofterior, *5 Superficial temporal, temporalis fuperficialis, *7 Internal maxillary, maxillaris interna, '9 Internal carotid, carotis interna, 24. Pofterior of the receptacle, receptaculi pofterior, 2J Anterior of the receptacle, receptaculi anterior, 26 Opthalmic, opthalmica, ib. Communicating, communicans, 31 Anterior carotid. carotis anterior. 3* PofteriorCONTENTS, Poflerior carotid, Two namelefs branches. ?AGE. carotis poflerior, 33 SuBCLAVIAH, Internal mammary. Inferior thyroid, Superior intercoftal. Vertebral, Deep cervical. Superficial cervical. SuBCLA VIA, Arteria mammaria interna, thyroidea inferior, intercoflalis fuperior, vertebralis, cerricalis profunda, cervicalis fuperficialis, 34 35 37 41 42 47 48 Axillary, Hfgheff thoracic, Dong thoracic. Humeral thoracic. Alar thoracic, Inferior fcapular, Poflerior circumflex. Anterior circumflex. Humeral, or Brachial, Large profunda, Large nutritious of the humerus, LefTer profunda. Large anaftomotic. Axillaris, - - ib. Arteria thoracica fuprema, 49 longior, ib. humeraria, 50 alaris, - 51 fcapularis inferior, 52 circumflexa poflerior, 53 anterior, 54 Humeraria, s. brachialis, 55 Arteria profunda humeri, 56 nutritia magna humeri, 58 profunda minor, - ib. Ramus anaftomoticus magnus, 59 Ulnar, Cubitalis, - - 60 Higheft intcroffeal perfo- Arteiia interoffea perforans fu- rant, prema, - 61 Ulnar recurrent, recurrens cubitalis, ib. Nutritious of the ulna, nutritia ulnae, 62 Common interoffeal, interoffea communis, ib. Dorfal of the hand, dorfalis manus, - 65 Ulnar profunda, cubitalis manus profunda, 66 Vola-XVU CONTENTS Volaulnar of the little fin- ger Firll vola-digital. Second vola digital, Thiid vola-digital, Large araftomotic, Namelefs branches. FAGS. Arteria volaris cubitalis digit! mi- nitni, - - 65 digitalis volaris prima, *L fecunda, 67 tertia, 3. Ramus anaftomoticus magnus, 65 Radial, Radial recurrent, Superficial volar, Dorfo-radial of the thumb, Dorfo-ulnar of the thumb, Dorfo-carpal, Dorfo-radial, Pollicar, or artery of the 7 thumb, a Superior volar perforants. Inferior volar perforants. Radialis, I Arteria recurren8 radialis, fuperficialis volae, dorfalis pollicis radialis, ulnaris, carpea, interofiea indicia major, s. radialis, princeps pollicis, perforantes Puperiores, iriferiores. 3. 69 7l 7* 3. 73 74 3. 73 a. SECTION TI. BRANCHES raoM the DESCENDING AORTA, 77 Thoracic aorta. Aorta thoracica, 78 Superior and pofterior pe- Arteria pericardiaca pofterior fu- ricardiac, pen’or, 3. Common bronchial, ' bronchialis communis. 3. Right bronchial. dtxtra. 3. Left bronchial. finiftra. 79 Inferior bronchial. bronchialis inferior, 3. (E fophageal. cefopl agcse, 3. Interior intercoftals, intercoftaks inferiores, 80 1 Vehtras,CONTENTS XV111 VENTRAL AORTA, Phrenic—right and left, CoELIAC, Superior coronary. Hepatic, Splenic, Superior mesenteric, Poflerior pancreatic3, Left inferior duodenals, Superior colic, Ileo-colic. Inferior mesenteric, Left colic, Internal hsemorrhoidal, Capfular, or atrabiliary, Renal, or emulgent. Spermatic—right and left, Adipofe—right and left, Ureterics, Lumbar—right and left, Common iliac, Internal Iliac, Ileo-lumbar, Sacro-laterals, Umbilical, Inferior veficals, Middle hsemorrhoidal. Uterine, Obturator, Pofterior iliac, or gluteal, Ifchiadic, PAGE. Aorta ventralis, - 81 phrenica, dex. et finiftra, 82 coelica, - - 84. coronaria fuperior, - ib. hepatica, - . 86 fplenica, - - 90 MESENTERICA superior, 91 pancreaticae pofteriores 92 duodenales infer, finift. ib. colica fuperior, - ib. ileo-colica 94 MESENTERICA INFERIOR, 96 Colica finiftra, - ib. hsemorrhoidalis internalis, 98 capfulares, s. atrabiliarise, ib. renalis s. emulgens, - 99 fpermatica—dextra et fi- niftra, - - 100 adipofa—dextra et finift. 102 uretericse, - - 103 lumbalis—dextra et finift. ib. Iliaca communis, - 105 ArTERIA ILIACA INTERNA, I07 Ileo-lumbalis, jo8 facrae laterales, 109 umbilicalia, - ib. veficales imse, - no haemorrhoidea media, ill uterina, - 112 obturatoria, - 113 iliaca oofterior,s. glutea,i 15 ifchiadica, - 118 CommonXIX CONTENTS PAGE. Common pudic, or pudic, Arteria pudenda communis, i*9 External Iliac, Iliaca Externa, 124 Epigaftric, Arteria epigaftrica, I2J Circumflex iliac, circumflexa ileum, &c. 127 Common femoral. Femoralis communis, 129 Superior external pudic, Arteria pudenda exter. fuperior, I30 Middle external pudic. \ externa media, ib- Inferior external pudic, externa inferior, ib. Deep femoral, Femoralis profunda, *3r External circumflex, Arteria circumflexa externa, 132 Internal circumflex, interna, *35 Firft perforant, perforans prima, 138 Second perforant, fecunda, 140 Superficial femoral, Femoralis superficialis, 142 . Large anaftomotic, Ramus anaftomoticus magnus, *43 Superior perforant, perforans fuperior. *44 Inferior perforant, inferior, *4 5 Popliteal, POPLITEA, 146 Superior externo-articular, Arteria articularis fuper. externa. > *47 Superior interno-articular. fuper. intemaj , ib. Middle articular, media, s. azygos 148 Inferior externo-articular, infer, externa, *49 Inferior interno-articular, • infer, interna, ib. * Anterior tibial, Tibialis antica, *5* Tibial recurrent. Arteria tibialis recurrens, 152 Internal malleolar. malleolaris interna, *53 External malleolar, externa, ib. Tranfverfe tarfal, or tarfal, Arteria tarfea, *54 Tranfverfe metatarfal, metatarfea, »j6 Dorfo-metatarfal, dorfalis externa halucis, *57 DeepXX CONTENTS Deep anaftomotie, Ramus anaftomoticus profundus, PAGE. ‘57 The Posterior tibial, Tibialis postica, W 00 Po'hcri" mterofieal, Arteria interoffea pofterior, *5 9 Common tibular. peronea communis, ib. Evermi plantar, plantaris externa, 164 Internal plantar. interna, 169 ADESCRIPTION OF THE % ARTERIES ' OF THE HUMAN BODY; REDUCED'TO TABLES. THE AORTA. THE large artery, termed aorta, opens with a wide orifice in the fuperior and pofterior fide of the left ventricle of the heart. Its roots feem incorporated with the fubftance of the heart itfelfj as it is not only clofely united with its internal furface, but fome mulcular firias of the ventricle are alfo mixed with the A white2 THE AORTA. white line, which is called Tendo drteriofus, and which defines the extent of the mufcle, Some tranfverfe fibres of the heart are united to the aorta from without, and cover it for a line and an half, though a little more loofely at the ex- tremity. The aorta having left the heart, is im- mediately expanded ; nof does it again recover its firft diameter till it reaches the place where it fends off the fubclavian artery of the right fide. In its afcent, it is firft inflecled to the right, be- hind and beyond the pulmonary artery; it then gradually inclines itfelf to the left, till, having formed a tranfverfe arch, it is feen projecting behind the lungs, at the left fide of the vertebrae. From thefe it receives its chief fupport, and de- fcends along with them in the fame ftraight line ; till at laft, having entered the abdomen, it again begins to turn towards the right, or refts upon the middle of the vertebras. • By the arch of the aorta, is underftood that part of it which is bent nearly in the form of a parabola, and which maintains the curved di- rection already mentioned, though its right pil- lar at firft ftretches to the right, and then pro- ceeds to the left, while the left advances almoft in a ftraight line. I exclude the ancient and now obfolete diftin&ion of the Aorta into the Afcer.d- ing, Tranfverfe, and Defcending. WhenTHE AORTA. 3 When we confider the whole extent of the arch, we obferve that it leaves the ventricle at the inferior margin of the third rib, and rifes in an oblique and winding courfe to the lower margin of the firft rib ; and that its diameter mnft be fo referred to the external parts, as that its exterior and right extremity fhall correfpond to the middle of the cartilages of the ribs ; and its lefr extremity, concealed by the lefc lobe of the lungs, and proceeding onwards, fliall, in like manner, correfpond to the vertebral extremity of the ribs. A 2 SECTIONSECTION I. BRANCHES FROM THE ARCH OF THE AORTA. I. The two Coronary Arteries of the Heart, viz. the Right Inferior and Left Superior. Thefe being fent off above the interior and po- fterior femilunar valves, form,in returning to the heart, an acute angle with the riling trunk. II. The Right Subclavian or Innomi- NATA. III. The Left Common Carotid. IV. The Left Subclavian. The three laft arife as diltindl branches from the fuperior convexity of the arch. The firlt of them palTes obliquely over the Trachea or Windpipe, upwards, and to the right; and after advancing about two inches, divides at its right extremity into the right common carotid, and the right subclavian, which pafles un- der the Clavicle to the arm. The other two branch out from the Aorta near to the former, and are alfo limilar to them. I. The Right Coronary—is larger than the Left. Being covered with fat, it runs between the5 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Sea. I. the auricle and ventricle to the flat furface and apex of the heart, inofculating freely with the left coronary, both by its branches and the ex- tremity of its trunk. Thefe branches are, a. One running on the right to the aorta, and on the left to the pulmonary artery. b. A number going to both tides of the right au- ricle—to the two yens carte—to the finus be- hind—to the aorta—and to the pulmonary veins. c. Five branches winding on the convex furface of the heart \ the longeft of which unites with the left coronary branches beyond the fepturn, near the apex. d. Branches palling over the plain furface and right ventricle, as far as the apex of the heart. II. The Left Coronary—after going out between the pulmonary artery and the left au- ricle, divides into two branches— a. An Anterior Branch, running upon the convex furface of the heart, towards the fepturn, in a winding direction, to the apex, where it is refledled on the pofterior furface of the heart. This gives, 1. Branches, to the trunks of the arteries, uniting with thofe of the right coronary. 2. Numerous branches to the left ventricle. b. A Circumflex Pofterior Branch, which, wind- ing between the left finus and the ventricle to A 3 theBRANCHES FROM THE Set1. 1. 6 the rounded extremity of the heart, terminates towards the apex, upon the flat furface. It gives * Branches, running upwards, and extenfively ra- mified on the left finus and the left auricle, and proceeding at lad to the inferior vena cava. ■ * * Branches, lofing themfelves in the mufcle of the left fide of the heart. N- B. A third branch is fometimes found funk deep in the feptum. The coronary arteries run in innumerable twigs to each mufcular fafciculus of the heart; and wherever they approach the branches of the phrenic, internal mammary, and bronchial arteries, they communicate with them by frequent modulations. Ill The Right Subclavjan.t—For the de- fcription of this and tjie Left one, fee below. IV. The Common Carotid—has on each fide a fimilar diltrifnnion of its branches, though the Right be a little larger than the Left. It lies on the anterior furface of the vertebrae, and is united by cellular membrane to the in- tercoftal nerve—the par vagum beneath, and the internal jugular vein above. It thus afcends in one continued trunk in a ftraight diredlion, and parallel to the Trachea, as high as the fupe- rior margin of the thyroid cartilage. It there di- vides into branches of equal (ize ; the anterior of which is called the external carotid; and the po- sterior, the internal or cerebral. PISTRI-ARCH OF THE AORTA. * Sett. I. A 4 It d DISTRIBUTION OF THE COMMON CAROTID. (I.) The External or Superficial Caro- tid This artery has fcarcely arifen, when it ad- vance forwards, and divides into eight branches, varioufly didributed. A. The superior thyroid, iffiiing near the ori- gin of the trunk, and defcendmg in a winding courfe to the fuperior margin oi: the thyroid gland, gives out, a. The Superficial Afcending Branch, running above or below die os hyoides, and there forming an arc h with the branch from the oppofite fide. This again divides into, a. Branches going to the hyo-thyroideu6, ftcrno and omo hyoidei mufcles, the platyfma myoide- us, and Ikin. /3. Branches to the ligament, which unites the thy- roid cartilage to the os hyoides. b. TheSuperficial Defcendmg Branch, running down- wards, and dividing into feveral branches, with various communications. Thefe are diftributed to, |. The fternomalloid, platyfma-myoideus, the thy- roid cartilage, the hyo and crico thyroidei mufcles, and the middle and loweft conftriftor mufcles of the pharynx. Some of thefe occa- llonally come off from the fuperior afcending branch. 2. A branch, uniting with the fame artery, from the oppofite iide, above the cricothyroideu6, and there forming a ring. c. The Laryngeal Branch.—Larger, and often pro- ceeding from the iuperficial afcending branch.Seft. 1. BRANCHES FROM THE 8 It hides itfelf, with its attending nerve, between the cricoid and the thyroid cartilages •, or pe- netrates the membranous interftice between the thyroid cartilage and the os hyoides or even fometimes runs to the interior part of the larynx, through a paffage peculiar to itfelf in the thy- roid cartilage, and at laft fends off, «. An afcending branch—going to the upper mar- gin of the epiglottis and its membranes. P>. A tranlverfe branch— given to the pofterior ary- tenoid and cricoarytenoid mufcles. y. A defcending branch—running to the thyro- arytenoid—-the lateral arid pofterior cricoaryte- noid—the lateral ligament—and the ligamentous expanfion fpreading outwards. A fmall trunk at laft goes out, and lofes itfelf in the cricothyroideus. d. The Thyroid Branch—inofculating in the fub- ftance of the gland itfelf with the thyroid branch of the inferior thyroid artery, and alfo by various twigs with the branch from the oppofite fide. B. The lingual, or sublingual artery, winding above the os hyoides, forwards, up- wards, and inwards, to the tongue. At its commencement, it either paffes over, or is covered by the hyogloffiis ; then is conceal- ed by the geniogloffus. At the anterior mar- gin of the hyoglolfus, it is fubdivided into t and ?. It gives off, «. Branches to the middle conftri&ors of the pha- rynx. £. The Hyoidal Branch—often uniting at the fu- perior, but fometimes the inferior, margin of the9 Sett. I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. the os hyoides, with the oppofite branch, and difiributing twigs to the contiguous mufcles of the os hyoides and tongue, y. Branches penetrating the fibres of the hyogloffus or its interfaces, if the trunk be concealed; proceeding to the mylohyoideus, geniofterno, and coraco-hyoidei, and the digaftric. 2. The Dorfal of the Tongue—running outwards and upwards, near the infertion of the ftyloglof- fus. Having reached the dorfum of the tongue and the epiglottis, it forms a plexus with the branch of the oppofite fide, and is ramified upon the adjoining part of the pharynx. £. The Sublingual—the fuperficial branch of the di- vided trunk, rifing to the fymphyfis, between the fublingual glands and the geniohyoideus, often penetrating the mylohyoideus, and lofing itfelf in the integuments of the chin. If larger, it often fupplies the place of the fubmental ar- tery. In this courfe it fends off many irregular- ly difpofed branches; of which the moft remark- able are, 1. Branches to the fublingual gland. 2. Branches to the geniohyoideus, mylohyoideus, the digaftric, and flein. 3. Branches to the inferior lip. £. Ranina—a larger branch, going off at an obtufe angle from the trunk. It runs tortuoufly be- tween the fibres of the geniogloffus to the fur- face and point of the tongue, paffing along the middle, on the inferior fide. C. The LABIAL, EXTERNAL MAXILLARY, ANGU- LAR, or facial—Concealed by the ftylohy- oideus.10 BRANCHES FROM THE Sea. I. oideus, and the tendon of the digaftric. A- fcends, in a tortuous manner, forwards, thro’ the depreffion, for the maxillary gland, and, winding above the maxilla, follows the an- terior margin of the malfeter ;—afterwards branches out, under the zygomatic mufcles, in ferpentine windings, upon the face and the fides of the mouth and nofe. The numerous branches proceeding from this artery art di- vided into two claffes: The firft, compre- hending thofe arteries that leave the trunk before it reaches the maxilla, from i to 6 ; the fecond, the branches diftributed on the face itfelf, from 7 to 12. j. The Afcending Palatine—covered by the ftyloid mufcles—lies upon the fides of the pharynx, near the external margin of the internal ptery- goid mufcle. Twigs being fent from it to thefe mufcles, to the tongue, the tonfils, and the Eu- ftachian tube, it is divided, near the fides of the levator palati, into * A Superficial Palatine Branch—following the courfe of the circumflex mufcle of the palate, and diftributing twigs to the pendulous velum and its glands. * * A Deep Palatine Branch—perforating the ve- lum under the levator palati, and copioufly fup- plying with branches the uvula, palate bone, tonfils, and tendinous expanfion of the circum- flex. 2. Minuter branches to the ftylohyoideus, the fty- lopharyngeus, the hyoglofl'us, and glands. 3. The Tonfillar Branch—fometimes wanting— near \Sea. I. \ II ARCH OF THE AORTA. near the infertion of the ftyloglofius penetrates the lateral parts of the pharynx to the tonfils, and exhaufts itfelf in numerous fmall branches, fpreading on their furface, and reaching to the tongue. 4. A duller of twigs, regularly fent off from the trunk in the furrow or depreflion already men- tioned, and beautifully fubdivided on the ma- xillary glands. Some of them run to the ptery- goideus, the tongue, the integuments of the neck, the chin itfelf, and even to the mafleter. 5. The Pterygoid Branch—often double—diflribu- ted to the internal pterygoid, the mylohyoideus, the fuperior conftrittors, the conllridors of the iflhmus of the fauces, and fometimes to the tongue. 6. The Submental Branch—goes out near ihebend of the trunk, above the maxilla, between the anterior part of the digallric, the mylohyoide- us, and the margin of the maxilla, almoft to the fymphyfis of the chin, where it divides into g and 7. When it fupplies the place of the fub- tingual, it diihributes a great abundance of twigs; and commonly «. A number of branches, varioufly ramified on the maxillary glands, the linn, the mylohyoideus, and the mouth. £. A Superficial Branch—ramified on the quadratus, or deprefior of the inferior lip, and the Hein. y. A Deep Branch—covered by the quadratus; diftributed to the levator menti, the triangularis, or deprefior of the angle of the mouth, the or- bicularis, and fkin, and inofculating with the branches of the inferior labial. 7. The Mafleteric Branch—United with a branch ofBRANCHES FROM THE Seel. L 1% of the temporal artery of the fame name upon the furface of this niufcle. 3. The Inferior Labial, or Superficial Branch—rifes, often double, from the trunk, goes forwards, and, having fent branches to the buccinator, the de- preflors of the angle of the mouth and lips, and the orbicular, diftributes others, uniting with the inferior labial of the oppofite fide, with the inferior coronary, and the inferior maxillary; and then pafles under the depreflor of the angle of the mouth to the inferior lip, dividing into two, and fometijnes producing the inferior coronary of the lip. 9. Many branches, fpreading outwards above the buccinator, and interwoven with the tranfverfe of the face, the buccal, and the alveolar. jo. The Coronary of the Inferior Lip—goes off near the angle of the mouth, and, covered by the depreflor of the angle and the orbicular, proceeds towards the cavity of the mouth, in a winding and tranfverfe direction, under the membrane of the mouth, to its fellow of the op- pofite fide, with which it inofculates. From this are diftributed, J. Branches to the mafieter, the parotid gland, Steno’s duft, the buccinator, and the orbicular. 3. Branches defeending to the quadratus and ikin, and inofculating with the neighbouring arteries. 11. The Coronary of the Superior Lip—like the preceding, but larger and more tortuous, pafles under the greater zygomatic and the orbicular mufcles, runs along the margin of the fuperior lip, and gives 1. BranchesARCH OF THE AORTA. I3 Sea. I 1. Branches to the orbicular mufcle and levators of the fuperior lip. 2. The Lateral Nafal Branch—Uniting with site nafo opthalmic, and forming a beautiful vafcu- lar plexus upon the alae of the nofe. 3. The two Nafal Branches of the Septum—rifmg upwards from the middle of the lip, and running as far as the point of the nofe. 12. Two or three branches, uniting, under the le- vator labii fuperioris proprius, with the infraor- bital, and other fmaller branches perforating this levator mufcle, and uniting alfo with the palpe- bral arteries. D. The ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY of Haller—iffues near the lingual, or from the bifurcation of the carotid, but more pofte- riorly from the trunk. The auricular ex- cepted, it is the fmalleft of the branches. It is united by the tela cellulafa to the long an- terior redtus mufcle, and rifes anteriorly to- wards the foramen lacerum, through which it pafiTes to be loft in the dura mater. The branches which go off in its afcent may be divided, in regard to their fttuation, 1. Into thofe palling Inwards, viz. a. AnlnferiorPharyngeal Branch—ftretchingdown, and fupplying the lower part of the mufcular fac. 1. A Middle Pharyngeal Branch—diftributing ma- ny twigs in the region of the larynx, pharynx, and Euftachian tube, after having united itfelf with the fuperior thyroid artery'. c. A Higher Pharyngeal or Palatine Branch—dil*- tributing feme twigs to the fuperior conftridors, theSect. I BRANCHES FROM THE the ftylopharyngeus, the Euftachian tube, and the pendulous velum ; others to the re&us mi- nor, the cuneiform bone, the cartilage occupy- ing the anterior part of the foramen lacerum— and others to the internal parts of the noftrils, and the pterygoid canal. 2. Thofe paffing Outwards.—Of which the moll remarkable are, «. Branches to the firft intercoftal ganglion and the par vagum. £. Branches to the fternomaftoid and the conglobate glands of the neck. y. A branch paffing through the opening with the jugular vein, and extending its minute twigs even to the cavernous finus. E. The occipital artery—pafles tranfverfely before the jugular vein, above the redtus la- teralis, proceeding between the tranfverfe pro- cefs of the atlas and the maftoid procefs, to the back part of the neck, and riles, in many wandering branches, to the occiput. In its courfe it is covered by the digaftric, the tra- chelomaftoid, the fplenius, and complexus; and becomes fubcutaneous as it reaches the occiput. Its branches are, a. One to the digaftric and ftylohyoideus. b. Branches to the glands of the neck and the fter- nomaftoid, inofculating with the afcending thy- roid artery. c. A Meningeal Branch—which enters the cranium along with the jugular vein, and is diftributed to the furface of the dura mater of the cerebel- lum. d. An Auricular Branch—diftributed to the leffier lobeARCH OF THE AORTA. 15 Sea. I. 1 lobe and the helix, and fometimes behind oil the concha. e. Branches to the fplenius and tracheloinaftoid. Of thefe, the defcending branches go to the la- teral and oblique retli mufcles. j. A Large Cervical Branch—palling to the exte- rior margin of the complexus, and going down between this and the trachelomatloid. -J- A Superficial Branch—defcending often to the middle of the neck ; and, giving twigs to the fplenius, complexus, and (kin, at laft inofcu- lates with the tranfverfe thyroid artery of the neck. -J- -{- A Deep Branch—diftributed to the obliqui refti and complexus, and uniting with the ver- tebral artery under the tranfverfe procefs of the atlas. g. The artery, having now bent towards the vertex of the head, branches go off in a retrograde courfe to the fplenius and complexus whilft other branches are fo extenfively ramified, that a great number of them inofculate with the higher twigs of the temporal artery. Of tbefe, one perforates the occipital ridge, and another the pofterior maftoid hole—both of them going to the dura mater. The POSTERIOR AURICULAR, OP STYLOMA- STOID.—This artery rifes from the trunk in the parotid gland, above the digaftric mufcle, and before the ftyloid procefs, and paftes tranf- verfely to the ear. As it afcends in a curved direction behind the ear, it inclines to the pofterior part of the fquamous bone, inof- culating, firft with the temporal, and then withBRANCHES FROM THE Sea. I. i6 with the occipital arteries. It divides into, a. Numerous branches, going to the parotid gland, the digaftric and fternomaftoid mufcles. h. A branch, palling through a particular opening in the meatus auditorius of infants, is diftributed to its membrane. c. The Stylomaftoid Branch—palling outward to the ftylomaftoid hole, where it enters, and ex- hibits the following branches : 1. An external one to the cartilaginous part of the meatus. 2. The Firll Branch of the Tympanic Artery.— This, in palling along with a twig of the arti- cular artery of the maxilla, fends out the coro- nary branch, which furrounds the ofleous part of the meatus auditorius, and, defcending to the membrane of the tympanum, Ihoots out in- to the mod: beautiful ramifications. 3. Branches to the malloid cells, the mufcle of the ftapes, the external femicircular canal, and the nerve. 4. A branch, anaftomofing at the fuperior and po- fterior part of the tympanum with the menin- geal branch, palling through the aqueduft of Fallopius to the cavity of the ear. d. Minute branches to the fternomaftoid mufcle, the Ikin, and vertex of the head. e. Branches behind the ear to the pofterior auricu- lar, the occipital and l'plenius mufcles, and dif- ftributecl more deeply to the mammillary pro- cefs, the pericranium, and the occipital bone. f. A branch, winding on the pofterior part of the concha of the ear, and fending twigs to the car- tilage, to inofculate with the ramuli of the an- terior auricular artery. 1 g. Higher17 SeB. I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. g. Higher branches, fpreading under and above the apofieurofis of the temporal mufcle, and inof. culating before with the temporal, and behind with the occipital branches. G. The superficial temporal.—This artery, concealed at fir ft in the parotid gland, rifes in a ftraight line above the zygomatic arch, between the maxilla and meatus auditori- us, and is at laft extenfively ramified on the nponeurofis of the temples and the neigh- bouring parts. In this courfe are fent off, 1. A number of branches to the parotid gland, e- q,ually irregular in fize and number. 2. The Articular Artery of the Maxilla—running to the pofterior part of the meatus auditorius ; fending branches to the articular cartilage, and tranimitting two twigs along the portio dura, through the fiflure of the articulation, where they reach the mufcle of the malleus, and, inof- culating with the ftylomaftoid, form the other half of the coronary artery of the tympanum. 3. Two or three mafleteric branches, going to the mafieter mufcle, and afterwards inofculating with the branches of the coronary artery of the inferior lip and the buccalis, or artery of the cheek. 4. The ‘Iranfverfe Artery of the Face—rifing under the zygoma from the parotid gland, it proceeds tranfverfely to the face along with the falivary dudf. In this courfe, if double, it gives branches to the parotid gland, the articulation of the maxilla, the mafieter, the flcin, the zygomaticus, and the orbicularis palpebrarum. It inofculates with the alveolar, palpebral, infraorbital, and B coronaryBRANCHES FROM THE Sect. I. coronary arteries of the upper lip $ and fome- times gives rife to mafieteric branches. 5. The Middle or Deep Temporal Branch—fent off below the zygoma This branch palfes over the zygomatic arch, and is immediately covered by the aponeurofis of the mufcle, where it ex- tends to the anterior part of the temporal muf- cle, to the external angle of the orbit, and in- ofculates with the palpebral artery. 6. The Anterior Auricular Arteries—riling above the origin of the middle temporal. Some of thefe perforate the meatus auditorius, and form a retiform plexus with the pofterior auricular artery ; others go to the helix and antihelix, the anterior auricular mufcle, and meatus audito- rius. 7. The Orbicular Branch—riling often from the temporo- frontal artery, palling above the zygo- matic arch, fends a fmall branch, in a tortuous dire&ion, to the external canthus of the eye, which, running under the orbicularis, reaches the internal angle of the orbit. In this courfe, it inofculates with the palpebral and frontal branches, and, with the frontal, forms the fuper- ciliary arch. 8. The Tempera-frontal, or Internal Anterior Branch—diltributed extenfively towards the forehead, and fometimes reaching as far as the glabella. It fends branches, which rife almoft at right angles from the trunk, to the orbi- cular, corrugator, frontal mufcles, and aponeu- rofis 9. The Temporo-occipitaly or External Pojlerior Branch—bending towards the ear, backwards andARCH OF THE AORTA, 19 s<a. l and behind it, forming, as it were, a continua- tion of the trunk—is distributed, in numerous ramifications, to the occipital and lateral parts of the head ; inofculates with the occipital a- bout the lambdoidal future, with the temporo- frontal before, and above with the branches ftretching from the oppofite fide. ■ 2V. B. The Temporal Artery gives many minute branches to the pericranium, and the bone. H. Internal maxillary.—This artery is lar- ger than the temporal: It rifes above the la- teral ligament of the maxilla, about the middle of the ramus of the inferior maxillary bone, before the external pterygoid; and, bending inwards, forwards, and downwards, is concealed under the maxilla. It then rifes obliquely upwards and forwards, to the fpace lying between the tuber maxillare and the pterygoid procefs; and as it proceeds in a tor- tuous manner, it is loft here in three or four branches, or rather in the fpheno-maxillary fiflure. In this courfe it gives 1. The Deep Auricular Artery—going to the poste- rior part of the meatus auditorius, and giving twigs to this and the neighbouring glands. It is fometimes wanting. 2. The Artery of the Tympanum—which, having fent ramuli to the fat of the maxillary articu- lation, pafles through the fiffure of GlaSTerus to the anterior mufcle of the malleus. 3. The Small Meningeal Artery—running towards the bafis of the Skull, parallel to the middle B 2 meningeal.BRANCHES FROM THE Sea. I. meningeal It gives in its courfe branches to the external pterygoid, to the palatine mufcles, and to the third branch of the fifth pair of nerves- It then palfes through the foramen o- vale, to the membranes of the receptacle, be- tween the pterygoid procefs and the circumflex mufcle. The Middle Meningeal Artery—palling in a ftraight direction to the foramen fpinofum, where it enters this hole ; and is there fo ramified upon the furface of the dura mater, that fome branch- es are carried tranfverfely under the temporal bone to the occipital, others to the pofterior finus of the falx, while others bend a little more anteriorly. All of thefe have frequent anaftomofings with one another, as alfo ufith the pofterior meningeal branches rifing from the vertebral and occipital arteries, and wdth the anterior branches from the opthalmic. Be- fore reaching the foramen fpinofum, it fome- times gives branches to the fphepoid bone, and through that bone to the dura mater, and o- thers to the external pterygoid, and the muf- cles of the Euftachian tube. Having pafled the foramen fpinofum, it fends + Three or four branches to the jan&ion between the petrous and fquamous portions of the tem- poral bone. -fi- + Two branches palling through the aqueduft of Fallopius; one of them following the courfe of that canal, the other going to the internal mufcle of the malleus, and the cavity of the tympanum. + + + Branches, which fometimes pafs through a hole21 ARCH OF THE AORTA. hole of the large wing of the fphenoid bone, going to the os raalae and the lachrymal gland. , The meningeal artery fometlmes fends off the la- chrymal artery within the cranium. 5. The Inferior Maxillary Artery—going down, in company with the nerve of the fame name, to the inframaxillary canal. As it enters the ca- nal along with the nerve, it fends branches to the internal pterygoid and the mylohyoide- us ; and is fo diftributed on the canal of the bone, that fome pofterior branches go to the dentes molares and the bone itfelf, while an- terior twigs enter the alveolar procefs of the incifores : Then palling through the inframaxil- lary hole, it inofculates with the labial branches, and is diftributed to the adjacent mufcles and lip. 6. Pterygoid Branches—varying in number—and diftributed, both fuperficially and more deeply, on the pterygoid and buccinator mufcles. 7. The Deep External Temporal Artery—before the trunk is concealed by the zygoma, gives a branch, which, in its afcent, refts upon the ten- don of the temporal mufcle, and terminates in this mufcle and adjoining parts ; while another, which fome call the maffeteric> is fent outwards and forwards between the procefles of the ma- xilla, to the external pterygoid and mafteter mufcles. 8. The Deep Internal Temporal Artery—riling in that part where the trunk proceeds tranfverfely near the antrum Highmorianum, terminating in the temporal mufcle, and tranfmitting a twig B 3 through^RANCHES FROM THE Seel. 1. 22 through the cheek-bone, to fuppfy the fat and periofteum of the orbit. 9. The Buccal, or Artery of the Cheek—irregular in its origin, arifing, fometimes from the extern nal deep temporal artery, fometimes from the alveolar, and fometimes from the infraorbital —penetrates the buccinator ; and, winding on its furface, gives branches to the zygomati- cus, the levator, the glands, and the adipofe fubftance. 10. The Alveolar Artery—proceeding in y tortu- ous direction, above the alveolar proceffes and the fuperior maxillary bone, towards the cheek and face—where it gives, a. Branches to the buccinator, fat, and internal fur*; face of the cheek bone, and the gums. b. Branches entering, by minute holes, the antrum Highmorianum. c. The Superior Maxillary Artery of the Teeth — paffing through the perforation in the tuber ma- xillare; and as it runs along the canal of the bone, giving branches, with fome from the in- fraorbital, to the dentes molares, canini and in- cifivi. 11. The Infraorbital Artery—rifmg in the fpheno- maxillary fiffure, near the infraorbital groove j and, paffing along this canal, emerges at laft upon the face through the infraorbital hole. Before the trunk reaches the canal, branches are diflributed to the fat and dura mater of the orbit, 'to the lachrymal gland, and to the infe- rior oblique mufcle of the eye. From the ca- nal, •F Branches go to the orbicular mufcle, the la- chrymal fact, and the nofe. F F Branches,23 Seel L ARCH OF THE AORTA. + + Branches, through the bone, to the antrum Highmorianum, or maxillary finus, and its mem- brane. Beyond the canal, and upon the face, a. Branches anaftomofmg with the nafal, labial, the tranfverfe of the face, and buccal arteries- js. Branches to the buccinator mufcle, the levator anguli oris, and the levator labii fuperioris. 12. The Superior Palatine, Dejcending, or Ptery- gopalatine Artery—riling, often double, from the trunk, that is divided into three branches at the fphenomaxillary fiilure. It enters the ptery- gopalatine canal; and there, if not fooner, di- vides into two branches; a. A Pofterior Branch—turning backwards thro’ the pofterior palatine hole, going to the extremi- ty of the palatine bone and the velum palati, and communicating with the afeending palatine branch. b. An Anterior Branch larger than the laft, paf- fing forward under the roof of the mouth, and forming a vafcidar plexus in the palate. A fingle twig alcends through the foramen incifi- vum to the inner fide of the nofe, or inofeuhtes with the nafal branch as it pafles down. 13. The Highejl Pharyngeal Branch—riling in the place already mentioned ; ftretching behind the fphenoidal finufes, to the upper, pofterior, and lateral parts of the pharynx—where it gives a. Nutritious branches, entering their fcveral aper- tures in the fphenoid bone and the pterygoid prcceffes. /i- A branch, going to the pterygoid hole, ar.d in- cfculating with a branch, riling either from the internal carotid, the pharyngeal, or the middle meningeal arteries. y- A branch to the cartilage of the Euftachian tube. £ 4 i24 BRANCHES FROM THE Sc£l. 1. I have fometimes found this pharyngeal branch entirely wanting. 14. The Nafal Artery—the laft branch of the trunk, and often double, paiTing through the fphe- no-palatine hole, and dividing, at the fu- perior and polterior part of the nofe, into a. A fmall branch, going to thefpofterior ethmoid cells. b. Branches to the fphenoidal finufes. c. Larger branches to the feptum of the nofe. d. A large branch, palling through the fuperior and inferior fpongy bones to the bottom of the nofe ; giving twigs to the antrum and the mem- branes of the noftrils, and inofculating wich the anterior palatine branch as it palfes through the foramen incifivum. (II.) The Internal Carotid, or Cerebral Artery.-—This artery, as it rifes to its canal, is connected before, by means of cellular fub- ftance, to the par vagum and intercoflal nerves; and behind, to the redus anticus mufcle. Some- times it forms above the vertebrae a larger or a fmaller projeding curvature. In this courfe no branches are, in general, given off. At laft it enters the foramen caroticum; and, paffing along this canal, undergoes many remarkable inflec- tions. On its fir ft entering the foramen, where it forms an obtufe angle, the artery proceeds upwards, inwards, and a little forwards. As it begins to rife from the canal forwards and up- wards, the fecond curvature appears very ob- tufe.ARCH OF THE AORTA. SeB. I. 25 tufe. Having at laft reached the pofterior part of the fella turcica, it is fo indexed in the ca- vernous (inns or receptacle, as to run in a hori- zontal dire&ion to the anterior clinoid procefs. It here rifes perpendicularly, perforates the in- ternal furface of the dura mater, and proceeds, near the bottom of the brain, backwards to the cerebrum. Through this tortuous courfe, the five following branches are chiefly remarkable : A. One to the pterygoid canal, inofculatingwith a branch of the higheft pharyngeal from the internal maxillary. B. A branch, fpreading out in the canal itfelf, going to the cavity and promontory of the tympanum, and anaftomoling with a branch of the meningeal, palling under the filfure of the aquedudt. C. The posterior artery of the receptacle or cavernous sinus—riling from the tranf- verfe part of the carotid concealed in the re- ceptacle, and going to that part of the dura jnater which covers the poflerior clinoid pre- cedes and the cuneiform occipital procefs; in- ofculating with branches of the vertebral ar- tery riling without the cranium, and enter- ing it through the foramen magnum. a. Many branches, diftributed extenfively on the dura mater. i. Branches to the 4th, 5 th, and 6th, pairs of nerves. c. Branches to the pituitary gland, its periofteum, and the cuneiform bone. D. TheG Branches from the Sea. /. D. The ANTERIOR ARTERY of the RECEPTACLE—> riling above the root of the intercoftal nerve. Some anatomifts, from fuppofing the inter- coftal to have its origin from the firft branch of the fifth pair, have miftaken this artery for a nerve. <*. Branches to the 3d, 4th, and the three divifions % of the 5th pair, with which they go out. Many branches to the dura mater of the recep- tacle, near the fphenoidal fiffure, and fome to the pituitary gland. The cpthalmic artery—riling in the an- gle where the carotid artery leaves the fphe- noid bone, near its anterior clinoid procefies, and running with the nerve which accom- panies, and refts upon it, through the optic hole, to the orbit of the eye. In mentioning its branches, and their fubdivifions, I fhall obferve the order which Nature generally points out in fending them from the trunk. After lying by the external fide of the optic nerve, it pafles obliquely forwards over the' nerve; and reaching the internal angle of the eye above its adductor mufcle, divides into two branches; and thefe again into the following fmaller branches: r. The Lachrymal—rifing from the opthalmic ar- tery, -about two lines after it enters the orbit^ between the abduttor and the levator; and then running above the abdu£tor, proceeds to the lachrymal gland. It fometimes goes off from th'e middle meningeal artery. a. ASeel. L ARCH OF THE AORTA. V a. A recurrent branch to the receptacle and the dura mater, giving twigs to the fifth pair of nerves. b. Branches to the periofteum of the orbit. c. A branch to the levator palpebrae and the op- tic nerve. d. A branch to the abdu&or mufcle. e. A branch perforating the zygoma, and inofcula- ting with the internal deep temporal artery. f. Many branches, expended on the lachrymal gland. g. The Inferior External Tarfeal Branch—term- ing the tarfeal arch at the margin of the lower eye lid, with the inferior palpebral branch. h. The Superior External Tarfeal Branch—form- ing a fimilar arch with the fuperior palpebral branch. 2. The Long Ciliary Branch—A description of the Ciliary arteries will be given below. 3. The Supraorbital, or Superior Mufcular Branch —rifes, while the trunk erodes the nerve, un- der the periolteurrr of the orbit; then bending to the levator palpebrae, proceeds forwards, and, after palling through the fupraorbitary hole, is diftributed, upon the forehead, in two Separate branches. a. Branches going to the fuperior oblique, the leva- tor palpebrse, the fuperior redfi mufcles, the fclerotic coat, and the periofteum. b. An Inferior Branch—widely diftributed on the periofteum of the os fronds, and inofculating with the temporal and frontal branches. c. An External Branch—covered by the orbicular mufcle', to which it gives twigs, as alfo to the corrugator. It forms many anaftomofes with the neighbouring branches. 4. The Central Artery of the Retina—rifing from theBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. I. CO the inferior fide of the opthalmic trunk as it lies upon the optic nerve ; or fometimes from the ciliary arteries. It then finks into the nerve; runs along its axis; penetrates, often double, the medullary expanfion of the retina; and, branching into many new divifions, is exten- fively ramified on its internal furface. Of thefe, fome extending as far as the corpus cili- are, form a circle between it and the vitreous humour, giving twigs to the cryftalline lens; ■while a particular branch pafFes through the centre of the vitreous humour to the polterior fide of the lens. 5. The Long Internal Ciliary Artery. 6. The Inferior Mufcular Artery—rifing from the trunk at the interior margin of the optic nerve, very often between the ciliary arteries, and tranfmitted, either under the eye, or above the addudtor mufcle, to the inferior palpebra. a. Many branches to the deprimens oculi, adduc- tor, optic nerve, and fclerotic coat. 1. Branches to the inferior oblique. e. Branches ipofculating with the infraorbital, and winding on the periofteum of the orbit. I. Branches running to the inferior eye-lid, the tu- nica adnata, and fometimes reaching the lachry- mal fae. 7. The Inferior Ciliary Artery.—This is wanting fometimes. The three ciliary arteries mentioned above, com- monly arife from the opthalmic artery, in fuch a way, that the external follows the external margin of the nerve; the internal, the inner mar- gin ; while the inferior, with fimilar windings, runs near the inferior mufcular, along the lower -marginSell. I. 29 ARCH OF THE AORTA. margin of the nerve. There are fometimes fix ciliary arteries, which, whether they arife from the opthalmic or its branches, fpread into fe- veral ramifications, and enter the fclerotic in fuch a manner as naturally to fall under three clafies. 1. Short, or Pofterior Ciliary Branches—arifing from the fuperior and inferior mufcular branches, and from the ethmoidal. They are often thirty in number ; perforating the fclerotic coat, near the optic nerve, while they pafs to the choroid coat, behind. 2. Long Ciliary Branches.—Two in number, en- tering obliquely the pofterior part of the fclero- tic, dividing into two branches as they approach the ciliary circle, and inofculating round the greater circle of the iris. 3. Anterior Ciliary Branches—rifing either from the mufcular, opthalmic itfelf, or the palpebral. They accompany the refti mufcles; and, be- ing divided at a little diftance from the cornea into three or four branches, enter the fclero- tic, and are diftributed among tke long ciliary branches on the uvea. To all thefe, forming a lingular vafcular plexus, the choroid coat, the ciliary circle with its proceffes, and the iris, owe their origin. 3. The Pofterior Ethmoidal Artery—running be- tween the levator and addu&or mufcles, above the greater oblique; enters the pofterior orbi- tary hole ; paffes through the cribriform plate into the cranium ; and, reaching near the dura mater, inofculates with the anterior ethmoidal branches The reft of the trunk is diftributed to the nofe. <*. ABRANCHES FROM THE Sf&. I. oc. A branch to the fuperior oblique and the ad- ductor. p. A branch to the pofterior cells of the ethmoid and fphenoid bones, where it inofculates with branches of the internal maxillary nafal branch. 9. The Anterior Ethmoidal Artery—rifes where the trunk, as it pafles over the fourth pair of nerves, reaches the trochlea. It then enters the anterior orbitary hole, and proceeds into the cranium through a peculiar opening near the ethmoid cells, diftributing fome ramuli, to the nofe. a. Branches to the frontal finufes, to the anterior ethmoidal and nafal finufes, inofculating freely with the nafal branches. b. Branches, diftributed to the dura mater and the falx. to. The Inferior Palpebral Artery—rifing often a- long with the fuperior palpebral, at that place where the trunk generally leaves the tendon of the fuperior oblique. a. A branch to the tarfeal ligament, angle of the eye lids, the caruncula lachrymalis, and the tu* nica adnata. £. Branches to the anterior ethmoid cells, inofcula- ting with the apterior ethmoidal, and palling with the infraorbital branch to the lachrymal fac. y. Branches running along the margin of the tar- fus, forming with the lachrymal the tarfeal ar- tery, or inferior tarfeal arch. 11. The Superior Palpebral Artery— I. Branches going to the fuperior part of the orbicular mufcle, to the ligament of the palpe- brse, and to the caruncula lachrymalis. 2. A branch, forming with the lachrymal artery, near the tarfeal cartilage, the fuperior tarfeal arch. 12. The Nafal Artery— rifing over the fuperior part ofSeB. I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. 31 of the lachrymal fac and the ligament of the eye-lids, goes to the nofe. a. A branch to the glabella and the frontal mufcles; from which a twig runs tranfverfely. b. A branch, palling down beyond the tarfeal liga- ment to the lachrymal fac, and then to the orbi- cular, where it inofculates with the infraorbital branch. A branch, running down on the fide of the nofe, where it forms a beautiful plexus, by frequent communications with the labial arteries. Ha- ving paffed through the bone and nafal cartilage, it is loft on the Schneiderian or pituitary mem- brane. 1.3. The Frontal .Artery.—at firfl fubcutaneous— pafies over the orbicular mufcle, and then finks in the corrugator. Its branches are, a. A Superciliary Branch—diftributed to the eye- brows and mnfcle3; and inofculating with the temporal and lachrymal arteries. £. A Superficial Frontal Branch—extenfively dif- tributed on the glabella, and rifing as high as the fontanelle or bregma. y. A Deep Frontal Branch —lying under the muf- cles, and diftributed to the pericranium by many ramuli, fome ruhning externally, and others more internally. F. Minute branches, rifing feparately from the trunk, and diftributed to the optic nerve, the infundibulum, the pituitary gland, and the lower part of the plexus choroides. G. The communicating artery.—This, along with the deep branch of the vertebral artery of the cerebrum, forms the circle of Willis. It is tortuous \ but when it leaves the tunica arachnoides.BRANCHES FROM THE Sea. I. 3^ arachnoides, proceeds in a ftraight line back- wards and inwards, along the fides of the cor- pora mammillaria, near the infundibulum, where it reaches the artery already mention- ed, and there forms an obtufe angled qua- drangular fpace. It varies in fizc, and fends a. Branches to the corpora mammillaria. b. Branches to the infundibulum, r. Branches to the optic nerve. d. Branches to the crura cerebri, inofculating with the pokerior carotid. H. The anterior carotid artery, or arte- ria callosa.—The internal carotid, at that place Where the anterior lobe of the brain is feparated from the pofterior, divides into two branches of nearly equal fize ; of which the anterior proceeds immediately inwards, and a little forwards; then bends above the corpus callofum, between the hemifpberes, to the pofterior lobes of the brain: In which courfe it gives u. Branches to the optic and olfadtory nerves.- p. Many branches, winding outwards to the adjoin- ing anterior lobes of the brain, y. A Communicating Enoch—inofculating with its fellow of the oppofite fide. This branch is fhort ar.d tranfverfe, and fends -j- A branch to the anterior part of the third ven- tricle , -L -}- A branch to the fornix, the anterior commif- fure, and the feptum lucidum. -Hr Branches to thepia mater, lining the neigh- bouring part of the cerebrum. S'. Branches33 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Sea. I. S'. Branches to the inferior fide of the anterior lobe, and to its flat and internal furface, where the falx feparates the two hemifpheres. They run in circuitous windings, penetrate deeply the fub- ftance of the brain, and in many places inofcu- late with the pofterior carotid, t. Many branches to the corpus callofum and adja- cent cerebrum, finking into the pofterior lobe, forming inofculations with the pofterior carotid and vertebral arteries, and extending even to the tentorium. T. The posterior carotid, or the artery of the fossa sylviana.—This fecond divifion of the trunk enters the fofia Sylvii that fepa- rates the anterior and pofterior lobes *, and gives to each numerous fuperficial tranches, fpreading on the circumvolutions of the cere- brum, and feveral deep ones, ramified back- wards. a. Branches to the optic nerve and choroid plexus. b. Branches to the pia mater, covering the bafis of the brain. c. Numerous branches, inofculating with the ra- muli of the former trunk and vertebral artery, and amongft themfelves entering into various anaftomofes. * Murray afligns only two lobes to each hemifphere. € D1STRTSett. I. BRANCHES FROM THE 34 DISTRIBUTION of the SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY and its BRANCHES. The fame division is common to the branches of the right and left fubclavian arteries ; but they fo far differ, that the right fubclavian is much larger, pafles obliquely over the trachea, and fends off the common carotid. Having left this branch at the fide of the trachea, it is now more properly the right fubclavian ; and, flill continuing larger than the left, proceeds nearly in a tranfverfe direction. The left fubclavian, on the other hand, while it gradually afcends from the inclining part of the arch, paffes on to its place of deftination with a more rapid and ex- tenfive curvature. Thefe two arteries run in fuch a dirediion, a- bove the fuperior margin of the fir ft rib, as to be concealed for fome time by the clavicle. They then proceed, with the brachial plexus, acrofs that fpace lying between the firft and fe- cond fcalene mufcles; and, being covered by the flattened extremity of the clavicle and the pec- toral mulcle, bend to the axillse, where they take the name of Axillary Arteries. The branches ofSett.L ARCH OF THE AORTA. 35 of the fubclavian arteries, and their ramuli, pre- sent fo many varieties, that no defcription, either as to their number or their direflion, can in every refpedl correfpond with Nature. In gene- ral, however, the four firft branches arife before the artery finks under the fcalenus, while the red are fent off beyond the margin of this muf- cle. Thefe are, A. The INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY—-going off from the lower and anterior part of the trunk, at the higheft part of the pleura, where, afcending gradually, and again bending downwards to the fternum, it reaches the margin of the firft rib, under which it paf- fes; and, running between the pleura and middle part of the cartilages of the ribs, de- fcends between the internal intercoftal and the fterno cofial muffles, as far as the dia- phragm. It then paffes between the dia- phragm and the libs, and, dividing into ma- ny twigs, is loft under the retftus of the ab- domen. From its origin to the third rib, it bends towards the fternum, then gradually inclines outwards. Its branches are, a. A Recurrent Branch—palling in the dire£tion of the clavicle to the mufcles of the neck, and diftributing to thefe mufcles fmall irregular ramuli. b. The Thymic Branch—which is often double, and varies very much in the diflribdtion of its twigs C 2 to3^ BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. L to this gland; which alfo receives arteries from thofe of the mediaftinum and pericardium. c. A branch accompanying the phrenic nerve—of fmall fize, fupplyir.g the neighbouring parts with twigs, and afterwards uniting at the diaphragm with the phrenic artery of the aorta. d. The Superior and Pojierior Pericardiac Branch— rifing fometimes from the mammary, and fome- times from the fubclavian artery ; fometimes from the aorta or from the common carotid; and as it winds to the upper and back part of the pericardium, diftributes itfelf upon the tra- chea, the glands, the coats of the pulmonary ar- tery, the pericardium, and cefophagus. e. Many Mediaftinal Branches—rifing between the third and fixth ribs ; fome of which go to the thymus gland, and a larger one to the diaphragm. f. Sternal Branches—fpreading varioufly on the back of the fternum, and uniting with branches from the oppofite fide. g. Smaller branches to the pericardium and glands, lying on the vena cava. h. Many branches to the adjoining furface of the LUNGS. i. Many branches going outwards, entering the in- tercoftal fpaces of the fix fuperior ribs; the firft of which are bent to the fternomaftoid, the fter- nohyoid, and the fternothyroid. Others form, at each interftice of the ribs, along with the tho- racic and intercoftal arteries, double inofcula- ting rings; and others, arifing from thefe an- nuli, go to the intercoftal and pe&oral mufcles, the mammae, the obliquus defcendens, and the fkin. k. The37 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Sett. L k. The Phrenico-pericardiac Branch defcending above the pericardium to the diaphragm, and fometimes Itretching near the enfiform cartilage to the re£tus mufcle. /. The Mufculo-phrenic—riling in a large branch at the fixth interftice of the ribs, turns out- wards, between the cartilages and the fterno- coftal; then proceeds obliquely to the inter- faces of the feventh, eighth, and ninth ribs, where it forms inofculating rings with the infe- rior intercoftal arteries ; and here fending many twigs to the diaphragm, at laft fpreads at the tenth rib on the tranfverfe mufcle of the abdo- men. m. A branch, winding on the furface of the enfi- form cartilage, and inofculating with the branch- es of the oppofite fide, or going down as far as the re£tus rpufcle. Sometimes palfes through the enfiform procefs. n. The Epigajlric Branch—A continuation of the trunk : as it leaves the thorax by the fide of the enfiform cartilage at the feventh rib, is covered by the abdominal mufcles, and divided into u. An Internal Branch—going down to the rec- tus mufcle, often as far as the umbilicus, and in- ofculating with twigs of the epigajlric. An External Branch—going to the tranfverfalis, and inofculating with the epigaftric, intercoftal, and lumbar arteries; fometimes fent from the mufculo-phrenic ; and if that be fmaller, this fup- plies it with many branches. B. The INFERIOR THYROID, Or ANTERIOR CER- VICAL artery—riling from the fore part of the trunk, near the mammary and vertebral C 3 arteries $Sea. I. BRANCHES FROM THE arteries ; and being covered by tbe fterno- rnaftoid, and bent a little upwards and out- wards, immediately divides into four princi- pal branches— I. The Tranfverfe Scapular—the lowed; branch of the thyroid artery, but fometimes of confider- able fize—is covered at firft by the fternoma- ftoid, and pafies tranfverfely to the fcapula, un- der the trapezius. The fuperjicial cervical fome- times fupplies the place of its fuperior fcapular branch. a. Branches going feparately to the ilernomaftoid, the fternohyoid, the omohyoid, and the fubcla- vian mufcles, the coats of the arteries and veins, and the fkin of the neck and bread. h. The Superjlcial Scapular Branch—giving twigs to the integuments on the top of the Ihoulder and furface of the trapezius and deltoid. C. Branches to the pofterior part of the trapezius. d. Branches to the levator fcapulae, and the ferra- tus. Thus is the artery often wholly expended. At other times, it finks deep under the trapezius, in many tortuous windings, where it properly takes the name of fuperior fcapular, or dorfo- fcapular; and is chiefly divided into two fmaller trunks, fending previoufly oflF a. Branches to the fubclavian and adjoining part of the trapezius mufcle. p. Branches to the lefler portion of the ferratus ma- jor anticus, and adjoining rhomboid, near the fuperior angle of the fcapula. y. A branch, running upon the furface of the fu- prafpinatus to the concave fide of the acromion; fnofeu-Sea. I. 39 ARCH OF THE AORTA. inofculating, near the coracoid procefs, with the humeral thoracic of the axilla, and again com- municating, at the fuperior angle, with the fu- perfcial artery of the lafe. S. A branch, palling over the outer furface of the fpine of the fcapula ; and, after giving twigs to the bone and the neighbouring mufcles, inofeu- lating with the inferior circumflex fcapular in the infrafpinal cavity. Under the Trapezius, it divides into a. The Superfpinal— the firft branch of the divided artery, palling through the femilunar notch, and diftributing many twigs to the luprafpinatus, is continued onwards, in two branches, under the acromion procefs and fuprafpinatus, where it be- gins to fend branches to the Icspula itfelf, the capfular ligament, the infrafpinatus, the teres minor, and at laft inofculates with the inferior circumflex fcapular. 1. The Supcrfcial Branch of the Lafe of the Sca- pula— larger — proceeds near the lower part of the levator fcapulte to the bafe, and, going down between the ferratus major and the rhom- boid, reaches the inferior angle of the fcapula. In this courfe, it gives many branches to the rhomboid and ferratus; and through them to the trapezius, the ferratus polterior, the Hein, and fubfcapular niufcle : afterwards forms, near the inferior angle, with the inferior fcapular branch, a beautiful circle upon the furface of the ferra- tus; from which branches defeend to the latiffi- mus dorli. Thus does the above remarkable artery, as well as the fuperfpinal, arife often from the fuperior or dorfo-fcapular. I have cbierved, however, that the iranfverfe fcapular fometimes feru s oil the C 4 fuperfpinalSed. I. BRANCHES FROM THE 40 fuperfpinal branch only, and that the other pro- ceeded from the fvperficial cervical artery. 2. The ‘Tranfverfe Cervical—running, by the fide of the neck, tranfverfely and upwards, to the cervix, wh£re it is concealed by the trapezius. Its various branches fometimes arife from the fuperjicial cervical artery. a. Branches to the fternomaftoid and ficin. b. Branches to the trapezius, levator fcapulae, and fplenius. f. A large branch, afcending between the fpleniu3 and trapezius, giving ramuli to both thefe and the cotrplexus, and at laft inofculating freely amongft the mufcles with the defcending branch of the principal occipito-cermcal artery. d. A branch, defcending to the trapezius, rhom- boid, complexus, and fuprafpinatus mufcles, and inofculating with the fuperjicial cervical and the tranfverfe fcapular branches. 3, The afcending Thyroid Artery—rifing between the rectus anterior and fcaleni mufcles, upon the fore-part of the tranfverfe proceffes, as high as the fecond vertebra; varying in fize-and in the number of its branches. It exhibits Superficial branches. From which a. Branches are fent, tranfverfely and outwards, to the angularity fplenius colli, fternomaftoid, and fcaleni mufcles. b. Branches to the redlus, winding varioufly on the anterior fuvface of the vertebras. c. Branches to the tenth pair of nerves and the ganglion olivare ; inofculating with the pha- ryngeal artery 4_ -j- Deep branches, which are funk between the vertebral interftices as the artery afeends. Of thefe are reckoned, a. Branches to the intertranfverfarii, fcaleni pof- tici, aad the origin of the fplenii mufcles. b. BranchesSett. I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. 4I l. Branches palling through the openings for the intercoital nerves to the involucra of the fpi- nal marrow, and inofculating with twigs of the vertebral artery. 4. The Thyroid. Branch of the Thyroid Artery.— In this the whole trunk is expended. It bends under the carotid to the fide of the larynx ; and, after repeated windings, reaches the inferior part of the thyroid gland. It finks into the gland •, and, while it divides into many ramifi- cations, is partly diftributed to the whole gland, and partly inofculates with the fuperior thyroid. It gives, 1. Leffer branches to the outer mufcles of the os hyoides and larynx, to the fuperior cartilages of the trachea, and the inferior thyroid gangli- on. Of thefe, the branches which go to the la- rynx form the inferior laryngeal. 2. Pharyngeal branches to the inferior conftri&or mufcles, the cefophagus, and the pofterior muf- cles of the larynx. 3. The Superior Tracheal or Thoracic Branch— often double or triple. One of the branches, defeending with the trachea into the cavity of the thorax, and there forming above the tra- chea a beautiful plexus, communicates with the inferior bronchial and the higher intercofal branches. C. The SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY rifeS mote externally than the vertebral, from the upper and pofterior furface of the trunk; then afeends with it to the hollow that is formed by the anterior fealenus, the furface of the firft rib, and bodies of the vertebras. It is there fuddenly reflected ; and, proceeding to the42 BRANCHES FROM THE SeSl. I. the roots of the firft and fecond ribs within the thorax, gives, a. Afcending branches, irregular in number and fize, to the fcaleni, the longus colli, and the nerves. b. Branches to the intercoftal mufcles of the firft and fecond interftices, which run along the mar- gins of the ribs, forming circular inofculations with the higher thoracic branch and the branch- es of the internal mammary, c• Numerous Oejophageal Branches—inofculating with the Jupcrior tracheal branch of the thyroid artery. ■ d. Branches fent through the openings for the nerves to the hollow of the fpine, and there diftributed both to the involucra and the me- dulla. e. Branches palling over the third rib, and inofcu- lating with twigs of the jirft inferior intercoftal. f Deep branches, palling through the intercoftal fpaces to the deep mufcles of the back and neck. D. The vertebral artery—larger than the former, rifes from the fuperior fide of the fubclavian ; and, afcending a little backwards, covered by the ganglions of the intercoftal and the cellular membrane, reaches the per- forations of the tranfverfe proceftes of the cer- vical vertebras Through thefe it penetrates, and, riling perpendicularly from the fixth, or fometimes from the fifth or fourth opening, reaches the aperture of the atlas, where it bends a little outwards; and having palled through,Sea. I. 43 ARCH OF THE AORTA. through, undergoes another more extenfive flexion backwards and inwards, by which it is carried tranfverfely in a groove, between the occipital bone and the atlas, to the fora- men magnum. Through this opening;, ha- ving at lafl: entered the cranium, it proceeds upwards and forwards, and at the balilar a- pophylis, under the medulla oblongata, meets, at an acute angle, with the vertebral artery of the oppofite lide, forming the bajilat ar- tery to be diftributed to the cerebrum and cerebellum. It gives, in this courfe, 1. Lateral branches to the mufcles between the tranfverfe proccfles, and others, near to the ver- tebrae. 2. Larger branches, palling through the interverte- bral openings for the nerves, to the coverings of the medulla, and inofculating with the ante- rior and pofterior fpinal branches. 3. A branch going, with various twigs, from the firlt bend of the artery to the rectus poiticus major and minor, the obliquus major and mi- nor, the trachelomaftoid, and complexus; and inofculating with branches reaching from the occipital artery. 4. Pcjlerior Meningeal Branches—proceeding from the fecond and third flexures, and winding for- wards upon the dura mater of the cerebellum, as far as the clinoid procefles and receptacle, and backwards towards the occiput. Before the formation of the bafilar artery, there are fent off in the cranium itfelf— 5. TheBRANCHES FROM THE 44 SeSi. L 5. The Inferior Artery of the Cerebellum.—ifiuing at a right angle from the trunk, near the me- dulla oblongata, between the tenth and ac- ceffbry nerves. It not only diftributes many branches to the lower furface of the cerebellum, but, being concealed between the medulla ob- longata and the crura of the cerebellum, is fo bent backwards and upwards, as to terminate in the vermiform procefs of the cerebellum and fourth ventricle. In this courfe are given, 1. Branches to the tenth and eleventh nerves. 2. Branches to the anterior and lateral furfaces of the medulla oblongata, and corpora olivaria. 3. Branches to the pofterior furface of the medulla oblongata, and the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. 6. Branches finking into the furrow that feparates the corporapyramidalia from the tuber annu- lare. 7. The Pofterior Spinal Artery—riling often from the inferior artery of the cerebellum; and, bend- ing from the anterior to the pofterior furface of the medulla oblongata, defcends tortuoufly on the fpinal marrow, and inofculates freely in its defcent with its fellow and with other branches, as they pafs to the medulla through the openings for the nerves. It terminates on the furface of the medulla at the fecond lum- bar vertebra ; and through its whole courfe fup- plies, with minute twigs, the medulla, and its feveral nerves, as they pafs out. 3. The Anterior Spinal Artery—rifing, at an acute angle from the trunk, near its fellow, and, de- fending in a retrograde courfe, proceeds in a windingSeel. I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. 45 winding dire&ion upon the anterior furface of the medulla, inofculating by tranfverfe branches in the region of the neck and back with the artery of the oppofite fide, to which it is parallel. The two arteries at laft uniting near the termination of the medulla, form a trunk, which is fent to the extremity of the os facrum ; and which, if emp- tied of its blood, afiumes the appearance of a nerve: whence the ancient error as to a Ner- vus Azygos. It diltributes numerous branches to the neighbouring parts, and to the nerves as they go out, and enters into frequent anafto- mofes with the fpinal branches, penetrating the interftices of the vertebrae. The basilar artery, being formed as above, occupies the depreffion in the middle of the tu- ber annulare, and at its anterior part divides into four parallel branches, proceeding from the trunk at right angles. Of thefe, the po- fterior go to the cerebellum; and the two an- terior, ramified on the cerebrum, unite with the communicating arteries of the carotid, and form the Great Circle of Willis. From the trunk a. Many branches proceed, tranfverfely and out- wards, diftributed to the furface of the medulla oblongata, the corpora olivaria and pyramidalia, the tuber annulare, the inferior furface of the cerebellum, and the neighbouring pairs of nerves. Of thefe, a branch, accompanying the auditory nerve, pafies to the labyrinth of the ear. b. The Deep Arteries of the Cerebellum—Right and Left—winding behind the crura of the cerebrum to46 BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. I. to the fuperior part of the cerebellum, and there exhibiting, + A Short Anterior Branch—diftributed to the crura cerebelli, the cerebellum, the vermiform procefs and the choroid plexus, lying on the thalami. + + A Middle Branch—winding extenfively on the upoer fide of the cerebellum ; inofculating freely with the inferior of the cerebellum ; en- tering the different fulci, and fupplying the thalami, nates, teftes, and pineal gland. -j- T T A Deeper Branch—following the fame courfe ; fpreading, with minute twigs, on the crura cerebri, the thalami, nates, pineal gland, choroid plexus, the proceffes of the cerebellum at the teftes, the valve of Vieuffenius, and the fourth ventricle. c. The Deep Artery of the Cerebrum—larger than the laft, and feparated from it by the third pair of nerves. Turns upwards along with the former, between the cerebellum and pofterior lobe of the cerebrum •, and gives, 1. Smaller branches, running to the bottom of the third ventricle, the thalami, optic nerve, the mammillary eminences, the comora quadrigemi- na, and fornix. 2. Communicating Branches—forming the circle of Willis, and frequently of unequal ffze. They proceed forwards, almoft at a right angle, to meet the communicating artery of the carotid, and give minute twigs to the adjacent parts. 3. A branch, going to the Tides of the crura of the cerebrum and the lateral ventricle, and diftribu- ting fmall branches above the thalami, to the corpora quadrigemina, the pineal gland, the cho- roid plexus covering thefe parts, to the fornix, the corpora ftriata, and the third ventricle. 4. ASea. r. 47 ARCH OF THE AORTA, D. The 4. A branch, the greateft part of which is Cent, im- mediately with its very numerous twigs, into the fulci of the pofterior lobe ; from which, a- gain, fmaller ramifications arife, to be diftribu- ted, as in Number 3d, to the corpus callofum and feptum lucidum. 5. Branches, reprefenting the continuation of the trunk, and inofculating with ramuli of the ca- rotid. E. The deep, or posterior cervical artery— Irregular in its origin, fixe, and extent, and, like the fuperjicial cervical, or tranfverfe/ca- pillar of the thyroid, fpreads, fometimes more, and fometimeslefsextenlively, with its branch- es. 1 have fometimes obferved it the fmalleft of all, and proceeding from the fuperior in- tercojlal. It generally iflues from the fub- clavian, beyond the margin of the fealenus, though fometimes looner under this mufcle. It then winds upwards and backwards, be- tween the deep mufcles of the neck and the lixth vertebra ; and is at laft fo difperfed a- mong the mufcles, as to bellow its ultimate branches on the coinplexus, near the occiput. It ufually gives, a. Branches winding on the furface of the bodies of the vertebra. b. Branches diflributed to the fealeni mufcles. c. Branches to the fpinal mufcles of the neck, the trachelomaftoid, fplenius, and intertranfverfarii. d. Branches to the complexus, often interwoven with the occipital branches.BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. /. D. The superficial cervical—rifes about half an inch, or an inch, from the firft fcalenus, at the upper and anterior fide of the fub- clavian where it begins to bend downwards ; immediately hides itfelf among the brachial nerves; and,fpreadingout afterwards,towards the fuperior cofta of the fcapula, divides into many irregular branches. Of thefe, the moft remarkable are, + Branches diftrib'uted amongfi: the fcaleni and bra- chial nerves. ~p + A Tranfverfe Branch—bending upwards un- der the levator, and lending fuperficial branch- es to this mufcle, the trapezius, and Ikin, and deeper ones to the fplenius and complexus. If larger than ufual, it runs in the direction al- ready mentioned, and fends out either the fit- perfpinal or the fuperficial of the bafe of the fcapula. It generally forms many anaftomofes with the branches of the thyroid and the deep cervical DISTRIBUTION of the AXILLARY ARTERY. The Subclavian Artery, as it bends from its firft fttuation, between the bread and fcapula, to the humerus, afliimes the name of Axilla- ry. Pafling- out, under the arch of the clavicle, it is furrounded by the nerves of the brachial plex- us, the veins, glands, and a quantity of fat; Ires49 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Sett. I. lies in the hollow of the axilla, between the fub- fcapular and ferratus major; and, protedled ex- ternally by the pe&oral mufcles, it foon ap- proaches forwards to the arm and the interior margin of the biceps. At lad, proceeding from the axilla to the inferior border of the tendon of the latiflimus dorfi, it takes the name of Hu- meral Artery. It fends off, A. Small branches to the fcalenus, firft rib, coracoid procefs, the adjacent mufcles, and nerves. B. The highest thoracic branch—arifing a- bove the fecond rib, or at the inferior mar- gin of the firft, and diftributed in the upper region of the thorax, between the ferratus ■ and frnall pedloral—divides into, 4- A Tranfverfe Afcending Branch—covered by the ferratus, to which it fends a recurrent twig, and inofculates twice or thrice at the firft inter- ftice of the ribs with the internal mammary and faperior intercoflal. + + A branch, going down beyond the fecond and third interftices, and at laft receiving fome twigs of the long thoracic. From this proceed, a. A large branch to the ferratus magnus. b. Two branches, uniting at the fecond intercoftal fpace with the internal mammary and intercojlal. c. Two branches to the third interflice, where this ramus generally terminates. d. Branches to the pe&oral mufcles and Ikin. C. The LONG, or SUPERIOR THORACIC, 01 EX- D TERNALBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. I. TERNAL mammary—running down as far as the fifth coftal interftice. It fometimes a- rifes from the circumflex, or from the inferior fccipular. u. Branches to the glands of the axilla and mam* ma, running fometimes to the nipple. /3. Many branches, irregular in feries and fituation, to the ferratus major and minor •, and, palling the fecond and fourth interlaces, to the great pec- toral and mamma, anaftomofing with the higheft thoracic. y. Branches finking deeper, forming double circles with the internal mammary and the inferior in- tercoflal as low as the interftice of the fifth rib, and fending branches to the intercoftal mufcles. D. The humeral ihokacic—riling from the anterior part of the trunk, between the fe- cond rib and the coracoid procefs, to the up- per margin of the leffer pectoral ; penetrates the interftice of the deltoid and pectoral muf- cles : and in its courfe fends, a. A deep branch to the ferratus major. b. Branches to the deltoid, to the great pedtoral and fubc! vian mufcles, and riling, above the clavicle, to the neck. C. A branch, running along the fubclavian mufcle to the pe£toral ; and, in the fpace between this and the deltoid, diftributing its branches to the peftoral mufcle, the clavicle, and Ikin, and at laft inofculating with the tranfverfe fcapular. d. Another branch to the pecftoral and deltoid. e. A branch, near the coracoid procefs, defcending to the axillary glands. /. A51 ARCH OF THE AORTA. Sea. I. f. A Circumflex Branch—winding backwards, un- der the mufcle, round the origin of the deltoid. From which proceed, 4- A Cutaneous Descending Branch—at- tending the cephalic vein, and termina" ting at the top of the humerus and the peftoral mufcle. + + A Superficial Branch—pafiing along the outer edge of the deltoid, and the adjoining margin of the acromion. 4- + + A Deep Branch to the articular cap- fule, the coracoid procefs, and the del- toid. 4- 4* 4" 4* A branch to the fpine of the fcapula, uniting with the fuperfpinal thyroid and the pojlerior axillary circumjlex. E. The alar thoracic.—This artery is fome- times wanting, though at other times it is large, and fends numerous branches to the axillary glands, and fome alfo, fpreading ex- tenhvely in various diredlions, to the fubfea- pular, pedtoral, and ferratus. N. B. The number and diftribution of the tho- racic arteries are fo irregular, that anato- mifts have iometimes enumerated fix fe- perate trunks diftributed to the thorax. F. Two or more large branches, riling near the upper and inferior margin of the fcapula, lending twigs to the nerves, ferratus, leva- tor fcapulae, latiffimus dorli, and particular- ly the iubfcapular ; inofculatirig, partly with the Juperficial thyroid fcapular of the bafe, and partly difappearing among the mufcles. D 2 G. The52 Sea. L BRANCHES FROM THE G. The INFERIOR SCAPULAR, Or INFRASCAPU- LAR, or subscapular—riling at the inferior margin of the fubfcapular mufcle, divides in- to confpicuous branches, which run in va- rious directions. Arifes, alfo, fometimes a- mong the thoracic branches, when, bending downwards, it fends cc. A branch to the furface of the fubfcapular, the capfular ligament, and the mufcles attached to the coracoid procefs. (2. A Deep Branch—winding, with its twigs, thro’ the fubfcapular to the naked fcapula, after gi- ving twigs to the teres major and latiffimus dorfi. y. A Mufcular Branch—large, and fometimes ri- fing feparately. Sending branches to the fubfca- pular, extending as far as the bafe of the fcapu- la; and diftributing extenfively large branches to the teres major, the ferratus, the latiffimus dorfi, and axillary glands. S'. A Confpicuous Branch—running clofely along the margin of the fubfcapular, and forming, at the inferior angle of the fcapula, which it tra- verfes, a large circle with the fuperflcial thyroid fcapular of the bafe. It rifes fometimes from the mufcular branch. e. A branch, parallel to the inferior cofta, and ex- tending to the teretes, the long extenfor, and the glands. N. B. All thefe branches prefent frequent varia- tions, and often diftribute more ramuli, which, for the fake of concifenefs, I omit. The Scapular Circumflex.—The branches alrea- dyARCH OF THE AORTA. 53 dy enumerated having fupplied the inner part of the fcapula, this large trunk bends between the inferior cofta of the fcapula and teres ma- jor, to the infrafpinal cavity, near the cervix, and proceeds, under the teres minor and infra- fpinatus, to the fpine ; giving + Branches to the teretes and long extenfor or fcapular head of the triceps. -J- -f- A number of Defcending Branches— winding in the hollow, as far as the bafe of the fcapula, and inofculating with neighbouring twigs. -J- An Afcending Articular Branch—be- tween the neck and fpine of the fcapula ; which fends a. Branches to the infrafpinatus. b. An Anaflomotic Branch—uniting with the Juperfpinal thyroid. c. A Coronary Brandi to the fpine and capfu- lar ligament. d. A Branch to the fuprafpinatus, where it inofculates again with the fuperfpinal. e. A branch to the deltoid H. The posterior circumflex artery—ifTu- ing between the fubfcapular and teres major; it finks between them, winds round the neck of the humerus, under the long extenfor, and afterwards bends tranfverfely, under the deltoid, backwards and outwards, from the inner fide of the arm. It fometimes gives rife to the anterior circumflex, and the deep branch of the humerus, or humeral profunda ; and fends a. A branch to the capfule and the circumflex nerve, which it accompanies. D 3 it. ABRANCHES FROM.THE Seel. L 54 b. A branch to the coracobrachial, internal anco- neus, and the teres minor. c. Branches to the humerus and bicipital groove. d Many branches to the fubfcapular, the long anco- neus; the back of the fcapula, and the bone. e. A branch, varioufiy ramified on the capfule, the anconeus, and periofteum ; anaftomofing freely with branches from the fubfcapular, and run- ning tranfverfely, in a circular courfe, to the deltoid. I. The ANTERIOR CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY of finaller fize—fent out near the former, above the teres major, proceeds round the hume- rus, under the biceps gnd coracobrachial, to the outer part of the arm, where it either dis- appears under the deltoid, or enters this muf- cle ; and fends a. Many branches to the fubfcapular, the latiffimus dorfi, and the long extenfor. They are often wanting. b. Branches to the bone and periofteum, inofcula- ting with the profunda. c. Branches to the biceps, capfule, coracobrachial, and deltoid. d. A branch, funk in the bicipital groove ; and, at the capfular ligament, inofculating, by an af- cending twig, with the fuperior branches of the pojlcrior circumflex, and, by a defending twig, with the deep branch of the humeral profunda, in the bicipital groove. C. A Branch to the deltoid; but which is often wanting. DISTRI-Sefl. I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. 55 D4 D. The DISTRIBUTION of the BRACHIAL ok HUMERAL ARTERY. The Axillary Artery is firfl known by the name of Humeral or Brachial, where it proceeds from the ax.Ila to the internal fide of the arm. Having left the cavity of the axilla, and pafied to the internal furface of the tendon of the teres major, it continues its courfe above the internal brachial to the inner fide of the biceps, and gradually runs along the midtile of the arm to the anterior furface of its extre- mity ; where at laid, concealed under the apo- neurofis of the biceps, it divides, near the bend of the fore-arm, into the Ulnar and Radi t Arteries. A. A branch—going down, near the tendon of the teres major, under the coracobrachial, to the bicipital groove, and giving recurrent twigs to the head of the humerus and cap- fule. B. Branches to the long and internal anconei, and coracobrachial. C. Many branches—going out, in various pla- ces, to the biceps, the internal brachial, and bone.BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. I. D. The DEEP BRANCH of the HUMERUS, the LARGE COLLATERAL, Or LARGE HUMERAL PRO- FUNDA—fometimes double—riling, from the inner fide of the trunk, at the inferior mar- gin of the teres major; but fometimes fooner, from the inferior fcapular or pojlerior circum- flex. It proceeds backwards, with a gentle curve; and, accompanying the long extenfor, runs to the cavity between the anconei muf- cles, where, in the pafiage of the fpiral nerve, it divides into two branches, at the upper junc- tion of the external anconeus and internal brachial. It gives a. A branch to the long and external anconei. b. A branch to the biceps, coracobrachial, the pe- riofteum, the tendon of the teres major, and the deltoid ; inofculating with twigs of the anterior circumflex, and with other branches of the hu- meral artery. C. A branch, ramifying on the coracobrachial, inter- nal brachial, the bicipital groove, and the bone. d. Many diftinft branches, fent cfF from the trunk in its defcent ; fome of them afcending to in- ofculate with branches of the humeral and fca- pular arteries, and others defceuding to be ra- mified on the mufcles. e. The Large Communicating Radial, or Profun- da-radial.—The external branch of the divided trunk, which, winding between the external an- coneus and brachial to the fpine of the con- dyle, forms, around the external or extenfor condyle, anaftonootic arches with the radial re- current}Sett I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. current, the kffer profunda, and fuperior inte- rojjial perforant. a. Branches to the neighbouring mufcles. f>. Nutritious branches, winding on the periofteura. y. Cutaneous branches, emerging through the in- terfiles of the mufcles. J. Branches, inofculating, on the pofterior and an- 1 terior furface of the condyle, with the radial recurrent and interolTeal branches. ?. A Deep Branch—covered by the radial exten- for and long fupinator, and forming many in- olculations with the radial recurrent and lejfer profunda. f. The Large Communicating Ulnar, or Profunda- ulnar—the interior and deeper branch of the di- vided trunk, bending between the internal anco- neus and brachial, to the internal or flexor con- dyle } and fending + Branches to the anconei and coracobrachial ■„ inofculating with a branch of the humeral. + + A branch, palling out between the hume- rus and anconeus to the deltoid, the in- ternal brachial, and the fkin. It is often wanting. -J-++ Deep Branches to the adjoining mufcles, and communicating under them with the dorfal arch. Some of thefe inofculate, near the elbow, on the internal anconeus, with the large anaflomotic ; others communicate with the brachial arch> winding on the back of the condyles ; and others with the ulnar recurrent. E. A branch to the coracobrachial and inter- nal brachial. F. A branch—defeending on the furface of theSefl. I. 58 BRANCHES FROM THE the internal anconeus, and communicating, near the bend of the elbow, with the ulnar recurrent, the great anaftomotic, or fometimes with both. G. A branch—which, after having fent off twigs to the adjoining anconei and coracobrachial inuicles, proceeds upon the inner furface of the arm, as far < s the olecranon, and incfcu- lates with branches or the ulnar recurrent and dorfal arch. N.B. Thefe two branches are ufually called the LESSER COLLATERAL. H. Branches ramified on the biceps and cora- cobrachial, irregular both in number and ori- gin, and diflributing their twigs both up- wards and downwards. I. The LARGE NUTRITIOUS ARTERY of the llU- merus—arifing at the inferior part of the co- racobrachial, bending outwards, and fending off a. A branch to the external anconeus and (kin ; iit- ofculating with the other branches diltributed to that mufcle. b. A Deep Branch to the internal brachial, at lad terminating in the deltoid. c. Branches entering the bone in feveral places. d. Branches, inofculating, at times, with the large anaftomotic or lcJJ< r profunda. K. The lesser profunda—rifing externally from the trunk; penetrating the internal bra- chial, and winding between the fupinator and the59 ARCH OF THE AORTA. SeB. I. the radial extenfor, to the outer or extenfor condyle. By its afeending twigs, it inofcu- lates with the nutritious, and by its defer J- ing, with the radial recurrent. Thefe e- wife pais foinetimes to the articular liganu L. The LARGh anastomotic—riling, fometim s double, from the internal fide of the trunk, a few inches above the joint; but immediate- ly dividing, it paffes, in a tranfverfe courfe, upon the furface of the internal brachial, to the flexor condyle, where, perforating the in- termufcular ligament, it runs upwards to the cavity, between the condyle and olecranon, covered by the tendon of the triceps and the ulnar flexor of the carpus It fends off a. An A/cending Branch—finking in the anconeus, and anaftomofing with the large communicating ulnar. b. A Defending Superficial Branch—to the prona- tor, fublimis, arid internal brachial. It inofeu- lates with fuperficial twigs of the ulnar recur- rent ; and, after perforating the mufcle, again anaftomofes, upon the periolteum and caplule of the fore-arm, with branches of the radial re- current, where it forms, around the articula- tion, the anterior arch. c. Many Cutaneous Branches to the brachial muf- cle and flexor condyle. d. A Deep Defcending Branch—anaftomofing, an- teriorly, with the ulnar recurrent, and poiteriorly with the fame recurrent and interofleal artery. e. A Tranfverfe Branch—which, with the profunda- ulnar,60 BRANCHES FROM THE S?ft. L B. The ulnar, the profunda-radial, the lejfer profunda, and all the recurrents, forms, above and below the condyle, the pojlerior dorfal arch of the hu- merus. This arch diftributes many branches to the joint and the neighbouring parts. M. Smaller branches to the internal brachial, and the mufcles arifing from the flexor con- dyle. The Ulnar Artery.—The humeral artery fometimes undergoes the divifion already men- tioned at the middle of the humerus, or even higher. This, however, is the larged: artery which arifes from the trunk at the bend of the arm. Scarcely has it arifen, when it links deep into the cavity that is occupied by the tendon of the biceps, the nerve, blood-veffels, and fat. It then bends, neap the interdice of the bones, un- der the pronator teres, radial flexor, palma- ris longus, and fublimis, to the ulnar fide of the fore-arm, proceeding gradually, with ma- ny defledlions, between the fublimis, the pro- fundus, and ulnar flexor, to the wrid. Palling over the wrid, it forms the Juperjicial arch of the hand, which gives beautiful arteries to the fingers, and finally inofculates at the palm with the radial artery. The more remarkable branch- es which it fends off are, A. A branch to the pronator teres and the com- mon head of the flexors.ARCH OF THE AORTA. 61 Sea. I. B. The HIGHEST INTEROSSEAL PERFORANT go- ing firft to the internal brachial and capfule, where it forms the anterior arch, by a branch inofculating with the anaflomotic and the ra- dial and ulnar recurrents. After perforating the interftice of the bones, it fends, under the fmall anconeus, a number of recurrent branches upwards to the dorfal arch, and downwards to the extenfor mufcles. The whole artery often rifes from the common in- terojfeal. C. The ulnar recurrent——fent off from the ulnar fide of the trunk, a little above the common interojfeal; and, having paffed through the flexor mufcles, is refleded to the pofte- rior part of the internal condyle. In which courfe are diftributed, a. A branch to the capfule, the flexor mufcles, and ulna. b. A Superficial Branch—covered by the pronator, and afcending, beyond the termination of the brachial mufcle, to the anterior part of the con- dyle, inofculates, upon the internal brachial, with the anafiomotic. In this courfe it diftri- butes many branches to the neighbouring parts. c. A Deep Branch—running between the fublimis and profundus to the cavity between the ole- cranon and flexor condyle ; giving + A branch to the fublimis and profundus. + + Branches to the ulnar flexor, and extenfor of the carpus, and to the periofteum. + +• + Inofculating Branches—uniting, in many places,6l BRANCHES FROM THE SeSl. I. places, above the cavity juft mentioned, with branches of the communicating ulnar, the anajlomotic, and the intcrojjeal, contributing to form the dorfal arch. + + + + Many branches to the joint. D. The NUTRI i IOUS AR1ERY of the ULNA running on the anterior furface of the bone, near the origin of the profundus. E. The common interosseal—rifing at the higher extremity of the profundus—running on the interofleous ligament, between the flex- or pollicis and profundus, to the pronator qua- dratic, and there dividing into the two ar- teries k and /, gives, in this courfe, a. Branches to the radial flexor of the carpus, pro- nator rotundus, profundus, and fublimis. b. A Small Perforant Branch—to the fupinator brevis and capfule. c. A branch to the flexor of the thumb and tendon of the biceps. d. A Nutritious Branch of the Ulna—entering the middle furface of this bone. e. The Highefi Pofierior Interoffeal Perforant—ri- fing, fometimes wholly, from the ulnar, as at B—fometimes double, when its largefl: divifion communicates, by its recurrent twigs, with the former ; but fends off, at the fame time, a large defcending branch, running with the extenfor of the little finger, by which it is covered, as far as the extremity of the fore-arm, where at laft it inofculates with the pofterior dorfo-inter- offeal. It gives a. ReflexSeB. I. 63 ARCH OF THE AORTA. x. Reflex branches to the fupinator brevis and the origin of the common extenfor. P. Branches ramified on the radial and ulnar exten- fors of the carpus y. Branches to the extenfors of the thumb, the com- mon extenfor, and abduftor. S. Many branches -uniting with the inferior pcrfo• rants. f A large branch to the profundus, winding ex- tenfively downwards on this mufcle. g. The Nutritions Artery of the Radius. h. Many brandies—going, in the defeent of the trunk, to the profundus and the flexor of the thumb. i. Small luteroffeal Perfcrnnts—from four to fe- .ven in number; rifing feparately from the trunk; perforating, in different places, the interoflecus ligament; and palling into the common exten- for, fupinator brevis, ulnar extenfor of the car- pus, the extenfors of the thumb, fore finger, little finger, and periofleum, they all enter into va- rious inofculations with one another ; and the fuperior are larger than the inferior. k. The Poflerior Dorflo-Inter offleal—the larger branch of the divided artery; rifing at the inferior margin of the pronator quadratus; and, ha- ving palled over the interofleous fpace, branch- ing out at the poflerior extremity of the ulna and wrift, divides into three branches and gives «. A branch to the pronator quadratus in its paf- fage. A Branches to the tendons of the radial exten- fors and periofleum; inofculating with inferior branches of the radial aitery. ABRANCHES FROM THE Sett. 1. 64 y. A branch, anaftomofing with the highejl inter- ojfeal perforant. S. The Ulnar Branch—the firft artery of the divi- ded trunk, bending to the pofterior furface of the ulna, along with the tendon of the ulnar ex- tenfor; and inofculating with the perforating branches of the radial artery, the middle branch, and the dorfal of the hand. The Middle Branch—larger than the reft; fink- ing under the ligament of the carpus to the ten- dons, the ligaments, and lkin ; forming a plexus with the perforating branches, the dorfo carpal, and its fellows. The Radial Branch—accompanying the fecond tendon of the radial extenfor, and inofculating with the preceding twig under the ligaments, as alfo with the firft metacarpal branch of the dorfo-carpal, and the radial perforants. Thefe three, in conjunction with the dorfo-carpal and dorfal of the hand, form a beautiful plexus a- round the carpus. /. The Vola-interofjeal—the other branch of the trunk covered by the pronator, running to the naked ligaments of the carpus, where, after fupplying with many twigs the ulna, radius, and the articulation of the wrift, it forms a vaf- cular plexus with the recurrent branches of the deep volar arch. In this courfe it forms other minute inofculations with the radial and uhjar. F. Many branches—rifing from the defcend- ing trunk ; irregular in number and fitua- tion, and going to the long flexor of the thumb, the radial nerve, the radial and ulnar flexors.SeB. /. ARCH OF THE AORTA. 65 flexors, the palmaris, fublimis, profundus, and {kin. G. The dorsal OF THE hand—rifing at the lower fide of the ulna, near the pronator qua- dratic, at the diftance of an inch from the pi < iiform bone; winding, under the ulnar flexor, to the back of the hand, and proceeding to the ulnar fide of the little finger. From this are fent a. A branch to the pronator quadratic, inofcula- ting with a twig of the radial. b. A branch to the ulnar extenfor, and anaftomo- fing, beyond the ulna, with the ulnar branch of the dorfo-interoffeal. c. Branches to the articulation of the radius with the ulna, ta the jun&ion of the pifiform bone with the cuneiform, and of the unciform with the metacarpal bone. d. Branches to the neareft dorfal tendons. e. Branches, ir.ofculating on the back of the hand with the perforants and the third metacarpal; winding externally round the articulation of the hand and ulna. f. The Dorfo-ulnar of the Little Finger—terminating in the firft phalanx, as it unites with the volar branch of the fame finger. It is often, how- ever, expended much fooner about the carpus. • tl. A branch, diftributed extenfively above thefe to the flexor tendons. I. branches to the pifiform bone, the palmaris brevis, and the internal ligament of the car- pus. Thefe rife from the trunk, as it pro- E ceed9branches from the Sea. L ceeds between the piliform bone, and the car- pal ligament, to the hand. K. Branches to the abdu&or of the little fin- ger, its flexor, adductor, and palmaris brevis, communicating with the dorfo ulnar of the fame finger. L. The ULNAR PROFUNDA, or DEEP ULNAR BRANCH of the hand—riling at the inferior margin of the carpal ligament \ concealed between the abdudlor and flexor of the little finger; and, proceeding to the deep volar arch, gives • a. Branches to the (kin, palmaris brevis, and adja- cent mufcles. b. Letter Deep Branches—inofculating with the fifth inferior and the third fuperior radial or Volar perforants. c. A Deep Circumflex Branch—uniting with the radial artery, and forming, under the tendons, the deep volar arch. Even when double, it ex- hibits a continuation of the trunk, and fupports a communication between the two arches. M. The vola-ulnar of the little finger— riling near the former, and having diftribu- ted branches to the metacarpal, addudlor, ab- dudtor, and the fourth lumbrical, and others communicating with the ulnar profunda and the fifth inferior volar perforant, runs to the other extremity of the fifth metacarpal bone, where it inofculates with the dorfo-ul- nar of the little finger. N. The first vola-digital—riling near the fifth finger, from the trunk as it bends tranf- verfelyARCH OF THE AORTA. Sea. I. 67 Ex + + Branches, verfely above the flexor tendons, where the fuperficial arch is formed, divides, at the root of the fingers, into the digito-radial of the little finger, and the digito-ulnar of the ring finger. Each of thefe runs tortuouf- ly along the fides of the fingers, as far as the apex. This digital likewife gives a. Branches to the third and fourth lumbricals and the tendons of the flexors. b. A branch, communicating with an inferior volar perforant at the bifurcation. c. A branch, forming a fmall arch upon the points of the fingers with the volar artery of the oppo- fite fide. d. Many Cutaneous branches to the dorfal and vo- lar or concave and convex furfaces of the joints of the fingers. e. A branch, refle&ed to the back of the fingers, round the root of the nails. O. The second vola-digital—divided into the digito-radial of the ring finger, and the digito-ulnar of the middle finger. From this proceed, -j- Two branches to the third and fourth lumbri» cals, inofculating with the inferior perforants of the deep arch. + + Branches fimilar to thofe of N. P. The third vola-digital—divided into the digito-radial of the middle, and the digito- ulnar of the fore finger. The laft of which inofculates, on the concave furface, with the digito-radial of the fore finger. It gives + Branches to the firft and fecond lumbricals.68 BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. I. -{- -f Branches, inofculating with the deep arch and its perforants. + Branches fimilar to thofe of N. Ql branches to the firlt lumbricals, the abduc- tor, addu&or, and flexor of the thumb, the tendons of the flexors, and the Ikin. R. A LARGE ANASTOMOTIC BRANCH Uniting with the radial artery, near the fuperior mar- gin of the addudtor of the thumb.. From this inofculation a trunk is formed, which gives out the vola-radial of the fore finger, and the vola-ulnar of the thumb ; or fometimes the vo/a-ulnar only. S. Many minute branches—iffuing from the concave furface of the arch, and ramified up- on the tendons; afterwards finking deeper to the wrift, inofculating with many twigs of the volainterojjeal. Thus do all the digital branches receive, at the commencement of the bifurcation, the volar perforants and the metacarpals from the deep arch and the dorfo-carpal; but as they ad- vance, difiribute twigs both to the fheaths and tendons of the extenfors. The largeft of thefe inofculates upon the back of the finger, at the-fecond joint, with its fellow of the op- polite fide. Near the nail they form the /mail dorfal, and at the apex the fmall voiar arch of the fingers. The Radial Artery—the fmalleft of the two branches which proceed from the divifion of6y Sea. I. ARCH OF THE AORTA. E 3 b. Branches of the humeral. It runs down, in a flraight line, upon the furface of the pronator, and gra- dually inclines towards the radius, between the long fupinator and radial flexor, refling on the flexor of the thumb. At the lower extremity of the radius, where it is eafily felt between the ftyliform procefs and the trapezium, on the back of the hand, it bends under the abdu&or and extenfor of the thumb, near the firfl radial extenfor; then penetrating the abdu&or or fe- mi-interofleous of the fore finger, between the metacarpal bone of the fore finger and thumb, bends, while there concealed, to the palm, be- tween the fibres of the addudtor pollicis, and forms, in the hollow of the hand, under the flexors, and above the interofleous mufcles, the deep volar archy in which it terminates. A. A branch, dividing upwards and downwards, to the fupinator longus and the radial exten- fors; fometimes inofculating with the fmall humeral -profunda. B. The radial recurrent—reflected round the tendon of the biceps, to the external con- dyle ; concealed between the long fupinator, the fliort radial extenfor, and internal bra- chial, where it forms, like the ulnar recur- rent, important incfculations, and gives a. Branches to the pronator rotundus, fhort fupina- tor, and radial extenfors; which, in their de- fcent, inofculate with other recurrent ramuli.BRANCHES FROM THE 7° Sea. I. b. Branches proceeding, at various places f*om the trunk, to the radial extenfors, long fupinator, the extenfor of the fingers, the ulnar extenfor, and fkin. Of thefe, the branches refledted to the extenfors inofculate with the highefi pofie- rior interojfeal perforant. e. The Superficial Anafiomotic Branch—inofcula- ting on the furface of the internal brachial with the fmall humeral profunda, and the profunda- radial of the arm, as they wind near the fpine of the condyle, under the fuperior flefhy part of the fupinator and the radial extenfor. d. A branch funk in the internal brachial, and form- ing, round the joint on the capfule and periofte- um, the anterior arch, with the large anaftomo- tic branch of the humerad. e. Branches to the articular ligaments. f. The Deep Anafiomotic Branch—running extern* lively between the long fupinator and the bone, or betwixt the radial extenfor and triceps, to the pofterior furface of the external condyle, where it inofculates "with a branch of the fmall profun- da, and the profunda-radial of the arm. g. Branches fpreading, near the termination of the trunk, on the fkin of the arm. C. Many branches—as the trunk runs fuper- ficially on the pronator rotundus, to the ra- dial extenfors, the two fupinators, the prona- tor rotundus, and radial flexor. Some of thefe ufually inofculate with twigs of the common interojfeal. D. Branches—riling from the artery as it leans on the radius, finking into the fublimis, flex- or of the thumb, radial flexor, and palmaris longus„Sett. i 71 ARCH OF THE AORTA. longus, and in many places inofculating with branches of the ulnar going to the fame muf- cles. E. A branch to the pronator quadratus, in* ofculating with twigs of the vola-interojjeal. F. Branches to the tendons of the fupinator, ra- dial, abdudor of the thumb, and bone of the radius; uniting with the dorfo-interoffeal. G. Branches running on the hand to the ten- dons of the flexors. H. The superficial volar—rifing at the infe- rior extremity of the radius, where the trunk begins to bend to the back of the hand, and proceeding, near the os trapezium, beyond the tendon of the radial flexor, runs to the palm, under the fkin, and above the fliort abdudor of the thumb. This artery is fome- times large, and prefents many varieties; and at other times is fo fmall as not to pafs the abdudor. If large, it commonly fends a. Many branches—ifluing, at various places, to the furface of the carpal ligament, the tendon of the radial, the abdudor, and opponens pol- licis. JJ. A branch, inofculating with the dorfo^radial of the thumb. y. An Anciftomotic Branch—uniting with the ulnar artery, near the termination of the flexor of the thumb, to which it gives twigs. It is fome- times wanting. J1. Branches to the firft and fecond lumbricals, in- ofculating with twigs of the ulnar. *. The Vola-ulnar of the Thumb—rifing fometimes E 4 fromSect. L 11 BRANCHES FROM THE from the trunk (as below)-, at other times exhi- biting, beyond the adductor, a continuation of the trunk on the ulnar fide of the thumb, where it inofculates, near the apex and articulation, with the vola-radial. I. A branch—ramified on the ligament of the carpus, the bone of the radius, and the flex- or tendons. K. Branches to the tendons of the abdudlor and radials, inofculating with the dorjo-ra- dial of the fore finger. L. Branches to the neighbouring bones and their articulations. M. A branch to the abductor brevis, and oppo- nens pollicis. ' N- The dorso-radial of the thumb—rifes from the trunk as it bends to the back of the hand, near the os trapezium, and accompanies the metacarpal bone of the thumb, running along the external infertion of the opponens. a• Branches to the tendons of the extenfors, abduc- tor and opponens of the thumb, forming, in many places above its metacarpal joint, a vafcular arch with the pollicar, or principal artery of the thumb. b. A branch—uniting at the laft phalanx of the thumb with the vola-radial. O. The DORSo-ULNAR of the thumb—riling near the os trapezoides, under the tendons of the abdu&or and long extenfor. a. Branches to the abdu&or and articulation of the fore finger or index, inofculating with the dorfo- ra dial of the index. b. Aarch of the aorta. 75 Sea. I. b. A branch, terminating in the firft phalanx of the thumb, and inofculating with the vola-ulnar and the dorfo-radial. P. The dorso carpal—iflues from the trunk, near the tendons of the radial, and proceeds tranfverfely above the carpus, and under the tendons of the extenfors, to the ulnar fide of the wrift, where it forms an extenfrve plexus w’ith the branches of the dorfo-interojfeal, and completes the dorfo carpal arch with the dor- fal of the hand : At the fame time lends off a. The Firjl Metacarpal, or Dorfo-interojfeal *— defeending beyond the carpus, upon the furface of the firft interofleous mufcle, between the fore and middle fingers; and inofculates with the third vola-digital at its bifurcation. In which courfe it gives + Branches communicating, in two places, with the fuperior perferant. + + Branches, diftributed to the interofleous muf. cles, the joint, and extenfors of the index. b. Branches to the bones of the carpus and joint, inofculating with the branches of the dorfo-in- tercjjcal- c. The Second Metacarpal, Dorfo-intcroJJea!—run- ning in the interofleous fpace to the roots of the third and fourth fingers. Double * From the circumftance of their running in the metacarpal inter- ftices, I have ventured to diftinguifh the branches a, c, d, by the epi- thet Metacarpal, rather than by that of Dorfo-interojfeal; under which name they are apt to be confounded with the branches of the common interojfeal.—T ranslator.BRANCHES FROM THE n Sett. /. + Double branches, inofculating with the fuperior volar perforants. + + Branches communicating with the JlrJl and third, and diftributing twigs, fimilar to the former, at a. d. The Third Metacarpal, or Dorfo-interojfeal—run- ning, like the laft, in the fourth interval of the fingers, and forming fimilar inofculations with the adjoining arteries. Sometimes one or other of the metacarpals is produced from the perfo- rants. The DORSO -RADIAL, or LARGE, Or RADIAL IN- TEROSSEAL of the index—rifing between the fn-ft and fecond metacarpal bones, while the trunk penetrates the inferior margin of the abdudlor or femi-interofleus; and, following the courfe of the interofieous, inofculates on the index with the volar artery of the fame finger. a. Branches to the abdu&or, articulation, and ex- tenfor tendons of the index. b. Branches inofculating with the dorfal of the thumb. R. The polli car, or principal artery of the thumb—rifing from the radial trunk, where it finks among the mufcles to the palm of the hand between two metacarpal bones; and, di- viding' into two branches, runs to the volar fide of the thumb, between its abdu&or -and addu&or mufcles. It generally gives a. Many branches to the back of the metacarpal bone and ack!u£tor of the thumb. b. A Deep Branch to the radial and ulnar fefamoid bones,Sea. 1. arch of the aorta. 75 bones, diftributed to the back of the thumb and the neighbouring mufcles. e. Branches going down to the hollow of the car- pus. d. Anaftomotic branches, interwoven with one or other of the arteries of the thumb. e. The Digitot or vola-radial of the Index—running to the radial fide of the fore finger, and unit- ing, beyond the addu&or of the thumb, with the interofleal of the index, or a fuperficial branch of the ulnar. f. The Digitoy or Vola-radial of the Thumb—the outer branch of the trunk, as it divides at the lower extremity of the metacarpus, fends many twigs to the back of the thumb from its radial fide, and inofculates upon its apex with g. The Digito, or Vola-ulnar of the Thumb—the in- ternal branch of the fame trunk, rifing often from the fuperficial vola-radial, reaching to the thumb, and inofculating with the fuperficial arch. It gives + Branches to the addu&or, flexor brevis, See. + + Branches to the fefamoid bones and the thumb, as above. £. The superior, volar perforants—three in number, proceeding from the concave mar- gin of the deep volar arch as it refts on the in- terofleous mufcles ; and, penetrating near the fuperior extremity of the metacarpal bones, at the back of the hand, they produce, as it were, middle melacarpals, interwoven with the branches of the dorfo-carpal. T. The INFERIOR VOLAR PERFORANTS, Or VO- LAR-BRANCHES FROM THE, &.C. Sea. I. LAR-iNTEROSSEALS *—rifing, fix or feven in number, from the convex margin of the deep arch. They occupy the metacarpal interfti- ces; and, winding round the radial and ul- nar lides of each bone, inofculate, at the roots of the fingers, with the metacarpal and vola- digital branches. U. Two or THREE RECURRENT BRANCHES tO the carpus, anaftomofing with ramuli of the vo- Ja-interojfeal, and with foine twigs of the ra- dial and ulnar. V. A branch, completing the deep arch, by in- ofculating, near the little finger, with the ulnar profunda of the hand. We mull here flop in the defcription of the Ar- teries of the hand, which exhibit almoft an endlefs variety in their diftribution. * The epithet Volar Interojfeal (hould be reje&ed, for the fame reafon as DorJo-interoJJeal when employed to diftinguilh the metacar- pal branches.—T ranslator. SECTIONSECTION II. BRANCHES from the DESCENDING AORTA. It appears, from the general defcription of the Aorta, that, after the formation of the arch, it bends gradually behind the lungs to the left fide of the vertebral column ; and, lying clofe upon this column, penetrates, in a ftraight line, be- hind the pleura, through the cavity, of the tho- rax, ro the mufcular crura of the diaphragm, di- recting its courfe in the abdomen to the inferior lumbar vertebras. Anatomifis have therefore properly divided the DESCENDING AORTA into the thora- cic and ventral ; whofe limits are defined by the diaphragm, which allows, by the feparation of its crura, a convenient paffage for the defcend- ing trunk. DISTRI-7S BRANCHES FROM TH£ Sea. IT DISTRIBUTION of the THORACIC AORTA, Through its whole defcent. the thoracic aorta inclines to the left; though near the leffer or inferior diaphragm it feems gradually to approach the middle of the vertebrae. The numerous branches which it fends out, though not large, are yet worthy of notice. Thefe are, I. The superior and posterior pericardiac artery—riling from the concave furface of the arch; moft commonly, however, from the fubclavian or internal mammary—which fee. II. The common bronchial artery—riling from the fore part of the thoracic aorta, and immediately dividing into the right and left bronchial arteries. Both of thefe, as they go down the anterior part of the trachea, are ra- mified on the bronchi, their glands, and vef- fels: The left on the pofierior furface of the lungs; and the right on the oefophagus alfo. Sometimes this artery is wholly wanting, or fupplies the functions of the following arte- ries. III. The right bronchial artery—rifingfome- times from the aorta; at other times from the fupetior, of the inferior intercofah ; fending its twigs, both before and behind the right bronchus,Sea. II. 79 DESCENDING AORTA. bronchus, to the air-vefiels and adjoining glands; and giving others to the neighbour- ing lobes of the lungs, the pleura, the pofte- rior part of the pericardium, the pulmonary linus, and, finally, to the oefophagus. IV. The left or superior bronchial—riling tranfverfely to the left bronchus, or left divi- fion of the trachea, and giving branches fi- milar to the former. V. The inferior bronchial—ifiuing from the aorta at the fifth vertebra, and accompanying the bronchi, in the courfe of the pulmonary vein, to the internal parts of the lungs; di- ftributing twigs fimilar to the former bron~ chicil. N. B. Although the bronchial arteries de- ferve our attention from their inofculations in the fubftance of the lungs with the fmali branches of the pulmonary artery ; yet, like other fmaller vefiels, they exhibit new va- rieties in almoft every fubjeft. VI. Oesop hageal arteries—five or fix in num- ber—flender—ifiuing, at different places, from the trunk, under the bronchials, or fome- times from the bronchials themfelves. They wind on the furface of the oefophagus, run- ning afterwards to the pofierior mediaftinum and the pericardium. Of thefe, the largeft enters the abdomen with the oefophagus, and generally inofculates with the coronary cefo- phageal,SO BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. phageal, or afcending coronary branch of the cceliac and the phrenic arteries. VII. The INFERIOR, or AORTIC intercostals— from eight to ten in number—rife from the pofterior and lateral fades of the trunk, and, bending to the interfaces of the ribs, run along their inferior margins. As the branch- es of the right fide mud pafs over the bo- dies of the vertebrae, they are longer than thofe of the left. The four or fix fuperior ones are fmaller, and afcend a little; while the inferior proceed tranfverfely. The firjl fuperior, rifing at the fourth vertebra, and running in the third or fourth coftal inter- lace, inofculates with the fuperior intercoflal of the fubclavian. The lalt, rifing behind the crura of the diaphragm, paffes over the quadratus lumborum ; and, following the margin of the laftc rib, is difiributed to the aponeurofis of the tranfverfe mufcle of the abdomen. They all fend, A. Three Branches—running, near the heads of the ribs, to the fpina! cavity : the firjl entering the bone ; the fecond, the dura mater; and the third, where the coftal nerve comes out, enter- ing the fpinal marrow. B. Deep Dorfo-mufcular Branches —fent to the dor- fal mufcles; and forming a plexus on the back. N. B. The preceding twigs forrtetimes unite into one trunk. C. A number of branches to the intercoftal mufcles; and, after penetrating thefe, diftributed to the ferratusSett. II. DESCENDING AORTA. 8l ferratus anticus, pe&oralis, latiffimus, and ex- ternal oblique. D. The Superior Coflal Branch—the fmaller divifion of the trunk—winding from the angle of the rib to its fuperior margin, and fometimes form- ing, as it runs along, the fuperior ring or inof- culation. E. The Inferior Cojlal Branch—exhibiting a conti- nuation of the trunk; uniting above with the thoracics and internal mammary ; below, on the fore part of the abdomen, with the epigajlric and lumbar branches. It forms the principal ring with the mammary; and in its courfe gives everywhere twigs to the neighbouring parts. DISTRIBUTION of the VENTRAL AORTA. The ventral, or abdominal aorta, is the lowed part of the common trunk. It pafles from the thorax, through the inferior mufcle of the diaphragm, to the right fide of the cefopha- gus, in a draight dire&ion, inclining rather to the left; and proceeds gradually through the abdomen, upon the furface of the vertebral co- lumn, to the fifth lumbar vertebra, or to the thick ligament connecting the fourth and fifth. The inner or long crura of the diaphragm, va- rioufly interwoven behind the cefophagus, fepa- rate anteriorly on the aorta, allowing a paflage, F throughi the . 82 BRANCHES FROM THE Seft. II. through which it defcends reding pofteriorly on the vertebral column. This padage is confider- ably larger than the trunk, loofe cellular fub- ftance, connecting the pleura and peritoneum, being interpofed. The aorta at this place is fe- j parated from the vena cava by the left lobe of the liver, a part of the diaphragm, and a large quantity of cellular fubdance ; but in the fpace between the kidneys and the liver, thefe two vef- fels approach fo near, that the right margin of the artery is partly covered by the vein that afterwards fends fome of its branches anteriorly acrofs. The Ventral Aorta is divided at the vertebra, mentioned above, into two branches of equal fize, forming an acute angle as they run towards the brim of the pelvis. Thefe, anatornids have called Iliac a Communes, or Common Iliacs. The branches of the ventral aorta are bed deferibed in the order in which they occur. I. The phrenic artery—Right and Left— very irregular in origin and divifion. Some- times a Angle trunk, riling above the cceliac, divides into the right and left phrenic : Some- j times, again, and indeed mod frequently, the , right rifes from the cceliac, and the left from the aorta ; while, at other times, they have been obferved riling together, both from the • cceliac, or both from the aorta. SometimesSea. II. #3 DESCENDING AORTA. the Angle trunk, or common phrenic, being larger than ufual, conftihutesthe fourth branch of the cceliac; and then forms the Juperior coronary branch of the ftomach. There are fometimes three or four phrenic arteries, which, as foon as they arife, bend obliquely outwards, before the crura of the diaphragm, to the inferior margin of its tendinous alse ; and, while they here wind tortuoufly under its flefhy fibres, diftribute various twigs, up- wards, outwards, inwards, and downwards. Bending at laft to the external margin of the tendon, and, palling between the mufcular layers, they run forwards, and inofculate, up- on the collal mufcles, with the thoracic veflels and the artery of the oppofite fide. At the bend of the artery, however, they fend a larger branch to the pofterior and inferior portion of the diaphragm as it rifes from the ribs. Be tides the branches of the diaphrag- matic tendon and mufcle, the following like- wife merit attention : A. Branches going to the two Tides of the renal cap- ' fu'.es, and adipofe fubftance lying on the kid- neys. See a defcription of thefe arteries below, fe. Branches—uniting, after penetrating the dia- phragm, with the accompanying branch of the phrenic nerve, and the other fhrenics rifing from the mammary. C. Branches—fome palling on the right fide to the pancreas, liver, and vena cava j others accompa- nying the vena cava to the pericardium, the F i pofteriorBRANCHES FROM THE g4 Seel. II. pofterior furface of the liver, and its fufpenfory ligament; inofculating, in many places, with the hepatic arteries. Upon the left, they run to the left lobe of the liver, the ligament of the fpleen, the cefophagus, and cardia. N. B. The diaphragm fometimes receives wander- ing branches from the cceliac, inferior interco- Jlals, the capfulars, and the lumbars, particular- ly from the fecond lumbar. II. The coeliac artery—Ihort, but of large diameter—riling between the crura of the diaphragm, above the eleventh dorfal verte- bra, from the anterior part of the aorta, and at the fuperior margin of the pancreas, be- tween the papillary lobule, or lobule of Spi- gelius, and the left fide of the lefier arch of the ftomach. It then defeends, in a tortu- ous manner, forwards and to the right, and, running about the third of an inch, ultimate- ly feparates into three branches, in fuch a manner, that the two on the right feem to arife from a common bafe; while the left is more diftindt at its origin. Thefe are, A. The Superior Coronary, or Great Left Gaftric, or Superior or Left Gafiro-hepatic—fmaller than the other branches, if refledted only to the fto- mach ; but almoft equal in fize to the fplenic, if, as fometimes happens, it fends a branch alfo to the liver. It appears fometimes to iffue from the fplenic ; afeends to the left, and forwards to the cardia and lelFer arch of the ftomach ; then bending downwards, and to the right, reaches the margin of the ftomach, where it diftributes extenfivelyDESCENDING AORTA. 85 Sett. II. extenfively its circuitous branches, forming a corona, to both fides of the ftomach. Of thefe, the principal are, a. A Superior Branch—running tranfverfely upon the anterior fur face to the greater arch of the ftomach, and that place where the cefophagus is dilated into a fac. «. An Afcending Branch—paffing up with the cefophagus into the thorax, and inof- culating with the inferior cefophagcal. p. Branches to the diaphragm, the lefler o- mentum, the glands, and left renal capfule, dividing fometimes into more, and fome- times into fewer, ramuli. y. A Tranfverfe Branch—traverfing the left extremity of the ftomach, and running, with defcending branches, to its greater arch, where it inofculateswith fome branches of the vafa brevia. b. The Inferior or Right Coronory—fometimes double—defcending, by the lefler arch of the ftomach, towards the pylorus; and in it3 courfe giving a. Many Anterior and Pofterior Gajlric Branches—winding between the coats of the ftomach, and at laft inofculating with the gajlro-epiploic s. p. The Superior Pyloric—the laft branch of the trunk — running along the fuperior mar- gin of the ftomach, in fuch a way, that its twigs are diftributed partly to the ftomach, and partly to the pylorus. The fmall ar- tery itfelf difappears in the right fuperior py- loric branch of the hepatic artery. c. The Left Hepatic.—This artery, when prefent, terminates the trunk. Sometimes the gajlric, F 3 after86 Seel. II. BRANCHES FROM THE after the former branches are fent off, runs im- mediately upwards, and to the right ; and, fink- ing between the lelfer arch of the ftomach and the left lobe of the liver in the tranfverfe foJfat is varioudy ramified to the left lobe, the lobule of Spigelius, the umbilical fojfa, and the venous duEl; at other times thefe branches arife from the cceliaco hepatic. B. The Hepatic.—This artery, which in adults is ftnaller than the fplenic, but in children larger, rifes from the right fide of the cceliac, or, as fometimes happens, from the fitperior mefente- ric; when, turning upwards near the outer point of the lobule of Spigelius, it is concealed by the pancreas ; then proceeding forwards, upwards, and to the right, behind the right extremity of the Itomach and the duodenum, it obferves the fame obliquity as the lelfer arch ; and, after run- ning an inch, or an inch and an half, divides, below the neck of the gall bladder, into the right tranfverfe and left afeending hepatics ; entering, at laft, with the other hepatic velfels, the tranfverfe failure or folia of the liver. In- clofed in the capfule of Glilfon, it occupies a middle fpace between the biliary dufts and the vena porta. Before its divifion, it fends a. Many fmall pancreatic branches. b. Minute branches to the lelfer omentum and ve- na porta. c. The Duodena-Gajlric, or G afro-duodenal, or Pan- creatico-duodenal—Tiling at a right angle from the trunk, and, behind the pylorus, proceeds forwards between the commencement of the duo- denum and the head of the pancreas, and, with- out forming a connexion w jth this gland, reaches theSett. II. DESCENDING AORTA. 87 the laft curvature of the duodenum : then in- clining to the larger arch of the ftomach on the left, and entering the web of the omentum, it inofculates, in the middle of the great arch of the ftomach, with the left gaflro-epiploic. From this are fent, a. Small Pancreatic Branches. p. The Inferior Pyloric— palling to the right, and diftributing its branches, under the du- odenum, to the fpace between the curva- tures of the ftoma'ch and tire firlt flexure of the intelline ; fome of which inofculate with the fuperior pylories, and others w-ith the right gaflro-epiploic. y. Small Duodenal Branches—palling from the trunk behind the commencement of the duodenum. Sometimes wanting. j. The Right Superior Duodenal -fometimej double or triple, and frequently ifiuing from the hepatic. Palling the choledic duft, it winds on the pofterior furface of the firlt tranfverle and defending flexion of the duodenum ; when, turning to the right margin of the pancreas, and the lowed po- fterior part of the fecond flexion of the duodenum, it inofculates on the left with the inferior mefenteric duodenal. ' It fome- times winds, in a ftmilar manner, on the polterior furface of the duodenum ; and upon its anterior with the pancreatico-duo- denal. It gives + Branches anaftomofing \\ ith the pylorics. + + Branches to the biliary dudls, arcompany- ing them to the liver »• The Pancreatico-duodenal—travelling the inner curvature of the duodenum in the form of a femicircle, ar.d fending numerous T 4 branches88 Sea. If. BRANCHES FROM THE branches outwards to the perpendicular and fecond tranfverfe portions of the duode- num ; and inwards to the head of the pan- creas ; at laft inofculates with the duode- nals of the mefenteric. ?. The Tranfverfe Pancreatic—riling, near the inferior margin of the firft flexion of the duodenum; and, palling to the left^ over two-thirds of the pofterior furface of the pancreas, gives everywhere twigs to the fubftance of the gland and mefocolon. It fometimes rifes from the mefentric, and fometimes from tht fplenic. f. The Right Gafro-epiploic, or Right gajlric, or Inferior Coronary—exhibiting a conti- nuation of the trunk as it bends to the greater arch. Palling obliquely down- wards, behind the pylorus, to the pofterior fide of the ftomach, it is conne&ed, by means of the omentum, to the greater arch ; and, traverfing its margin to the left, at laft difappears in the left gajlro epiploic. From this proceed, The Great Pofcrhr Epiploic—to the right fide of the large or gajlro co- lic onrentum. + + Small Epiploics to the fame omen- tum and colon, inofculating, on this inteftine, with the mcdio-cclic + + + Gaftric Branches—running to each fide of the ftomach, and inofcula- ting with the former gafrics. + + + + Numerous branches to the glands. d. The Superior Hepatico-Pyloric—Small Right Gajlric—or Lejfer Coronary.—According as the hepatic divides, fooner or later, this artety arifes from its trunk or its left branch ; and, reflected, with a very acute angle to the Idler arch, there inofculates,Seel. II. DESCENDING AORTA. 89 inofculates, in various places, with the pyloric of the coronary artery ; and lends, + Branches to the biliary duds, inofeu- lating with the cyjlic arteries, and to the fmaller gajlro hepatic omentum. -f- + Branches to the Pylorus—communi- cating with the inferior pyloric, gajlro- epiploic, and fuperior duodenal. e. The Left Hepatic— the ltffer branch of the divided trunk, and often wanting when the hepatic rifes from the coronary. It fir ft proceeds, with the trunk, parallel to the vena porta ; then mount- ing over the trunk, enters the umbilical fnffa; where it fends, a. Branches to the fubftance of the liver near the venous dud, to the lobule of Spigeli- us, the left lobule, and lobulus anonymus. /?. Branches pafllng through the umbilicalfoffa to the round and fufpenfory ligaments, in- ofculating anteriorly with twigs of the epi- gajlric, and pofteriorly with phrenic or mam- mary twigs. f. The Right or Biliary Hepatic—covered by the bi- liary duds, conceals itfelf in the right extremity of the tranfverfe foffa—fometimes rifes from the Puperior mefentcric—is fometimes double—giving rife to the -f- Cyjlic Branch—not unfrequently double —winding, upon the left fide of the cyftic dud, to the fundus of the gall bladder; at laft exhaufting itfelf on the fubftance of the liver, it fends * Branches to the biliary dudls, uniting with thofe of the duodenal. * * Branches, winding circuitoufly between the coats of the gall bladder. + + Large Branches—running deep into theBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II, the right lobe and the lobulus anony- mus. C. The Splenic.—While this artery runs along the upper furface of the pancreas, and pafies tranf- verfely to the depreflion of the fpleen, it exhibits large and repeated flexions, upwards and down- wards, bending in a circular or fpiral form. Ap- proaching the fubftance of the fpleen, dt divides into many branches, which are equally tortuous; and of thofe that fink into the fpleen, fome fmaller ones return through its fubftance to the diaphragm or ftomach. Its moft remarkable branches are, a. The Great Pancreatic —irregular both in fize and dire&ion. The whole branch is fometimes co- vered by the pancreas; and, palling to the right extremity of this gland, fupplies it with twigs; fending others, at times, to the adjoining duode- num and mefoco'on. If the trunk divides, ano- ther branch, bending to the left, fupplies the place of the tranfnerfe pancreatic. It inofcu- lates with the pylorics and duodenah. h. Small Pancreatics—defcending from the fplenic> in great numbers, through its whole extent. c. Pojlerior Ga/lrics—two or four in number—fome- times wanting—rifing from the middle of the trunk as it paffes to the fpleen, and afcending with the omentum to the polterior furface of the large extremity of the ftomach. d. The Left Gajlro epiploic, or Left Gajlric—of- ten double—rifing near the commencement or ' left extremity of the pancreas, where the trunk begins to divide ; bends downwards, and to the right, with its two branches to the fundus and larger arch of the ftomach ; and, like the right gajlric%Sett. II. DESCENDING AORTAf 91 gajlric, with which it inofculates, follows the large curvature of the ftomach. a. Pancreatic Branches. p. Large EJploics— three or four in number; one of which is ufually larger than the reft, but all diftributed to the omentum and co- lon. y. Gajlric Branches—inofculating with the coronaries on the furface of the ftomach. e. The Vafa Brevia, or Short Branches—three or four in number— iflue from the trunk as it reaches \ the depreffion of the (pleen ; and diftribute their ramuli to the fundus of the ftomach. where they fpread, in various directions, on its furface, and inofculate with many of the neighbouring branches. N. B. A branch is fometimes fent from the fplenic to the tranfverfe colon, anaibomoftng with the medio colic. III. The superior mesenteric—the largelt of the abdominal or ventral branches—riling be- tween the crura of the diaphragm, three or four lines below the cceliac, from the anterior part of the aorta, and under the lower edge of the pancreas; proceeds between this gland and the inferior tranfverfe flexion of the duo- denum. Palling over this portion of the in- tefline, it bends to the right under the mefo- colon ; where, received near the vertebrae into the folds of the mefentery, it lirfl; in- clines to the left, and then to the right; where the whole artery, advancing to the right ile- um, aflumes the form of the Roman S, with the concave fide of its large curvature looking toSeel. II. 9 2 BRANCHES FROM THE to the right. After giving off fraaller branch- es, the trunk fends from its right fide only two branches to the large inteftines; but from the left it gives a greater number of branches to the fmall inteftines. Thefe are, A. Pofterior Pancreatics—numerous—penetrating the right and left fides of the pancreas, and in- ofculating with the pancreatico-duodena/, tranf- verfe pancreatic, and the fplenico-pancreatics. Some of thefe pafs through the mefocolon to the colon itfelf. B. The Left Inferior Duodenal—two or three of them—rifing from the left fide of the trunk, and ftretching to the inferior and left curvature of the inteftine. While fome twigs are refle£t- ed, upwards and backwards, in the form of arches, the reft inofculate varioufly with the fa- perior duodenals, the pancreatico- duodenal before this gland, and with their fellows. Thefe branches, however, are very irregular. C. The Superior or Medio-colic—rifes fometimes a- bove the duodenal branches ; but generally be- low them, under the duplicature of the mefo- colon, and runs along the tranfverfe mefocolon from the left, forwards, and to the right, to the right colon and adjoining part of the tranfverfe colon. It fometimes rifes double •, but more frequently, after running a fhort way upon the mefocolon, divides into two branches, viz. a. The Tranfverfe Colic—palling, in the duplica- ture, along the middle of the mefocolon, to the concave fide of the tranfverfe colon, after having full divided, fooner or later, about three inches fromDESCENDING AORTA. 9J Sed. II. from the edge of the inteftine, into two diver- ging branches, viz. -j- The Right Anajiomotic Branch—bend- ing to the right fide of the tranfverle colon, and forming an arch with the afcending anaftomotic branch of the right colic. From the convexity df this arch, as from that of all the other arches formed on the concave fide of the large inteftines, many parallel branches rife, about two inches In length, which, as they approach the in- teftine, divide into twigs, entering the concave arch of the tube, and cir- cling round on the oppofite fides, till they meet and inofculate at its convexi- ty. Thefe minute twigs inofculate freely with the fmall epip/oics of the coeliac artery, and are ramified fimilar- ly, both on the large and fmall intef- tines, although on the former they be lefs numerous. ■j- + The Left Anajiomotic Branch—accom- panying the left part of the tranfverfe colon with a fimilar and parallel arch, and at laft inofculating, freely and ele- gantly, with the large anaftomotic branch of the left colic, proceeding from the inferior mefenteric. Thus is formed the great mefenteric arch. In- teftinal branches, rifing from the arch, are fimilar to the former. h. The Superior Right Colic—fometimes rifir.g, by a feparate trunk, from the mefenteric ; proceeds tranfverfely and to the right, in the duplicaturc of the mefocolon, to the hepatic flexure of the colon;94 BRANCHES FROM THE Stfl. IL colon ; and where it approaches the inteftine, gives, + A Large Afcending Anajlomotic Branch—bending to the middle of the colon ; forming an arch with the right anaftomotic branch of the tratif- •verfe colic. + + Two or three branches, defcending a Short way to the right colon ; form- ing Sometimes together Smaller arches. + + + The Laft Defcending Branch—in- ofculating with the curved afcend* ing branch of the ileo-colic, and form- ing here another new and larger arch. D. The lleo-colic.—This artery rifes Single from the right fide of the trunk, about an inch or two below the laft, and below the tranfverfe mefo- colon. It afterwards proceeds behind the right mefocolon, and defcends beyond the pfoas muf- cle to the junction of the ileum and coecum. Its principal branches are, a. A Curved Afcending Branch—diftributing twigs to the right colon, and uniting with the defend- ing branch of the fuperior right colic. i. Inferior Right Colics—rifing Sometimes from the former, and running, with a double branch, to the adjoining inteftine. c. A Cacal Branch—larger than the former, and directing its courfe, with its trunk the ileo-colic, to the ccecum. Tt gives out, a. The Anterior Cacal—palling along the an- terior fold between the ileum and ccecum, and diftributing its branches upon the an- terior part of the ccecum. f>. The Pojlerior Cacal—running to the po- fterior furface of the ccecum, giving branch- es95 Seel, II. DESCENDING AORTA. \ es to the root of the vermiform procefs, and inofculating, near the right of the cce- cum, with the former artery and with the appendicular. y. The appendicular—reaching, behind the coecum, to the fmall mefeatery of the ver- miform procefs; and, as it runs along this, giving ftraight and fhort twigs to the pro- cefs. ■h An Iliac Branch —winding to the left, and forming an arch, near the ileum, with the extremity of the mefenteric trunk, from which the ileum receives new branches. Branches, varying in number, from twelve to twen ty, rife clofe to one another from the left con- vex fide of the fuperior mefenteric, diftributing ramuli to the ileum and jejunum. Of thefe, the fuperior are fhort and {lender; the middle long and thick; the inferior fhorteft ; and the laft branch of all, as obferved above, inofculates with the ileo-colic. Running near and parallel to each other, they fit ft proceed tranfverfely ; then, riling between the layers of the mefentery, di- vide into fmaller branches, which fo diverge, that in whatever dire&ion they go, they are foon after divided into two. Thefe branches, as they meet, form various arches, from whofe convex margin new parallel branches arife; which a- gain foon dividing, inofculate with the adjacent branches, forming fmaller and more numerous arches. From the convexity of thefe arches other branches arife, forming a third feries of arches ; and where the branches are longeft, e- ven a fourth or fifth feries; till the laft branches, near the inteftines, dividing into anterior and pofterior.Sea. II. $6 BRANCHES FROM THE pofterior, encircle thefe vifcera, and, gradually penetrating their coats, form molt beautiful ar- borefcent ramifications on their ceHular mem- brane. Thefe arches, by means of their twigs, not only form various inofculations among them- felves, but alfo with the arborefcent ramifica- tions of the two furfaces. The inner inteflinal coat is fo covered by thefe branches and the veins, as to give it the appearance of being whol- ly vafcular. The trunks of thefe arborefcents lie on the roots of the valvulce. The arches are polygons ; and the firft feries larger than the reft. The lymphatic glands, and coats of the veflels, are furrounded with numerous and va- rious twigs as varioufly diftributed. N. B. The more flender branches of the mefente- ric generally inofculate freely with the fperma- tic arteries, near the duodenum and commence- ment of the fmall inteftines, and with the cap- fular and adipofe branches. Singular, likewife, is that inofculation which the mefenteric forms with the epigajlric in the foe- tus. IV. The INFERIOR MESENTERIC, Or LEFT CO- LIC.—This artery riles, between the renal and common iliacs, from the anterior and left fide of the aorta ; defcends behind the peritone- um to the left fide of the trunk ; and ha- ving reached that place where the aorta divides into two remarkable crura forming the iliacs, fends off a large branch ; and, af- ter palling the iliac artery, finks behind the redlum into the pelvis. As it here rifes for- ward97 Se5l. II. DESCENDING AORTA. ward and to the right, it enters the dupli- cature of the meforeclum, and accompanies the inteftine as far as its internal fphinder. It lends out, A. One or two branches, near its origin, diftribu- ted to the lumbar glands and the peritoneum, and inofculating, upon the left fide, with fome branches of the fpermatics. B. The Left Colic—a thick, but very fhort artery j often about two lines in length, and ilfuing from the place juft mentioned, runs in the duplica- ture of the left mefocolon to the left fide, and di- vides into three widely diverging branches, viz. a. The Afcending Branch—rifing to the left angle of the tranfverfe mefocolon ; and reaching this, divides into, + A Large Anaflomotic. Branch—bending to the right, and forming the large me- fnteric arch with the left anaftomofing branch of the tranfverfe colic. When this branch is large, it contributes more to the formation of the arch than the tranfverfe colic. + + A Small Branch — fent tranfverfely, a- bove the kidney, to the fplenic fexure of the colon, and left colon; afterwards uniting with the following branch, by means of the arch, which gives out many ftraight twigs to the inteftines. b. The Tranfverfe Branch —running, often double or triple, to the left colon ; but firft dividing, and fending a branch, which inofculates upwards with the afcending, and downwards with the de» fending branch. t. The Defending Branch—running to the laft G portionS: c7. II. BRANCHES FROM THE portion of the left colon and its iliac flexure ; varies in the fize and number of its branches, ac- cording as the curvature of the inteftine is great- er or lefs. It is often divided into three branch- es, which form anaflornotic arches among them- felves, and with the former. A7. B. The Left Colic gives out alfo branches, forming a plexus with the lumbar branches, and * with fmaller twigs of the fpennatics. C. The Internal Hemorrhoidal—This name is gi- ven to the trunk when it reaches and runs along the polterior part of the redlum. It gives out a. One or two branches to the lower part of the colon. b. Branches encircling the redtum, and uniting an- teriorly, without forming an intermediate arch. c. Branches which, with the middle hcemorrhoidal, the loweft veflcal, Or uterine branch of the hypo- gaflric, inofculate freely at the inferior part of the inteftine, which this artery does not reach. V. Capsular, or atrabiltary—Right and Left. Thefe are diftindt fmall arteries; which, though never Wanting, as they diflribute many branches to the capfular gland, yet, in almofl every individual, they prefent irre- gularities in number, fize, or dire&ion. They do not, like the vein, iflue from one common trunk, but from various branches, coming to- gether near the feat of the gland ; and may therefore be divided into three clafies. A. The Superior Capfular Branches—from two to four in number—riling from the inferior phre- nic sy from their common trunk, or from the tranfverfe99 DESCENDING AORTA. Sea. ii. tranfverfe branch ; fpread varloufly upon both Tides of the gland, and fupply the fat, which fur- rounds the kidneys, with various twigs. . B. The Middle Capfulars—very often double—fent from the aorta, between the phrenics and fupe- rior mefentcric. Thefe fmall branches, proceed- ing tranfverfely to the gland, foon divide ; and give a. Anterior and pofterior branches to the gland. b. Small Phrenic and Adipofe branches. c. Branches, running, upon the right fide, to the neared part of the liver, the vena cava, the co- verings of the duodenum, and the right mefoco- lon ; and upon the left, to the furface of the fpleen and adjoining mefocolon. They frequently unite with the arteries belonging to thofe vifecra. C. The Inferior Capfulars—two or three in num- ber—rifing from the fuperior edge of the renal artery. They afeend outwards; and, after reaching the gland, if they be of confiderable fize, communicate wandering but numerous branches to the neighbouring vifeera, the renal fat, and the adjacent arteries, particularly the fpermatics. VI. The renal, or emulgent artery—Right and Left.—It is unneceflary to enumerate the varieties which anatomifts have obferved as to the number, origin, and magnitude of this artery. It generally rifes (ingle from the fide of the aorta, between the fuperior and infe- rior mefenteric arteries, from which it de- feends tranfverfely at lefs than a right angle. The left, which is rather (hotter than the G 2 right,BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. 100 right, and more pofterior in its origin, turns, near the kidney, over its concomitant vein ; while the right, which is longer, is covered by its concomitant vein. Approaching the renal depreffion, it divides into two or four branches; which, finking feparately before and behind the pelvis of the kidney, are again divided, and diftribute their fpreadingbranch- es to the papillary cones. Thefe, as they en- circle the convex margin of the papillae, form arches with the adjoining branches, and feem to feparate the cortical from the tubular fubftance. From the convex and concave mar- gin of each arch rife innumerable fmall arte- , ries; of which the former encircle the cortex, and with fome of their branches pafs through its fubftance, and difappear on the fat; while the reft are chiefly difperfed and exhaufted upon the tubular part. Before entering the kidney, the renals give out, A. The Inferior Capfulars. B. Small Phrenics to the crura of the diaphragm. C. Many Adipofe Branches. See below. D. The Superior Ureteric. See below. E. Spermatic Arteries, inofculating fometimes with the fpermatic branches. F. Smaller branches, diftributed to the mefocolon of each fide. VII. The spermatic artery—Right and Left.— This artery is very flender, but, confidering the fmallnefs of its diameter, is the longeft that rifes from the lateral part of the aorta. ItSea. II. DESCENDING AORTA. IOI G 3 liver It generally has its origin between the renal and mefenteric arteries, though the right and left do not always iffue from the fame place; the left often rifing higher, and proceeding frequently from the renal or the inferior cap- fular. I have obferved, at times, two on each fide. It defcends from the aorta fomewhat tortuoufly, at a very acute angle, behind the peritoneum, and pafles before the vena cava on the right fide. It is more tortuous in wo- men than in men, in whom it pafles through the abdominal ring. It joins its concomitant vein upon the furface of the pfoas mufcle. Received by the fpermatic cord, it is divi- ded, at fome inches before reaching the teftes, into five branches: two of which go to the head and oppofite extremity of the epididy- mis ; while the reft, running down to the tefticle itfelf, penetrate the tunica albuginea, and fend off new branches in every diredtion; which, proceeding in a winding courfe, and refletfted to the inferior margin of the teftes, are partly exhaufted on its fubftance, and partly on the convolutions of the feminife- rous ffudls. Without any perceptible dimi- nution of diameter, the artery fends out in this courfe, A. Middle and Inferior Adipofe Branches—traver- fing the middle region of the kidney. See be- low. B- Superior Ureteric:. See below. C. Branches to the duodenum, the vena cava, and103 BRANCHES FROM THE SeSl. II. liver on the right} and to the mefocolon on the left. D. Branches to the lumbar glands, peritoneum, and the fpermatic veins. E. Branches terminating in the fpermatic cord, and chiefly in the cremafter mufcle and the feptum of the fcrotum. In females the artery does not pafs through the ring, but, entering die broad ligament, divides into, 4- Pofterior Branches— going to the convex fide of the ovarium, and entering the ovula by minute twigs. + + Anterior and External Branches—winding through the alae to the Falopian tube, and from the tube to the pofterior furface of the uterus. They alfo run down, and inofculate with other uterine arteries, and with the branches of the pppofite fide. Some of them even defeend from the abdomen with the round ligament through the ring, and inof- culate upon it with the fmall artery of the epigajlric, and with the externalpudic branches. VIII. Adipose arteries—Right and Left.—Thefe veffels, diftributed to the adipofe fubftance round the kidneys, are, on account of their number and origin, divided, like the capjular, into certain claftes. i. Superior Adipfe Branches—rifing from all the capfulars, viz. the phrenic, aortic, renal, and jirjl lumbar, running extenfively upon the fupe- rior, pofterior, and exterior adipofe fubftance of the kidney. 2. Middle Adipofe Branches—fent out, below the renal artery, from the renal fpermatic and the aorta,Seel. II. 103 DESCENDING AORTA aorta, to the middle adipofe fubftance of the kidney. 3. The Inferior Adipofe Branch—riling from the fpcrmatic, below the lower extremity of the kid- ney ; and, bending to its pofterior and inferior adipofe fubftance, inofculates with the fuperior adipofe branches, the i/eo-cohcs, and twigs from the fpermatic. IX. The ureteric arteries—which maybe rec- koned among the fmalleft branches of the aorta, approach the ureter in different places; and may likewife be divided into, 1. Superior Ureterics—rifing from the renal artery, the inferior capfulars} and fpermatics, run to the pelvis of the kidney, and the upper part of the ureter. 2. Middle Ureterics—iffuing from the aorta, a little above its bifurcation, or from the common iliac or fpermatic, run, with minute twigs, extenfive- ly, upwards and downwards, upon the middle part of the ureter, proceeding to the peritone- um of the pelvis and the lumbar glands. 3. The Inferior Ureteric—rifing from the inferior veficals or uterine, near the infertion of the ure- ter into the bladder, inofculates, upon the blad- der, with the former branches, fending off, in every diredlion, minute ramuli through the whole of the canal. X. The lumbar arteries—Right and Left.— Five in number ; iffuing from the lateral and pollerior part of the aorta, at nearly a right angle. The firfl runs tranfverfely under the firfl vertebra of the loins. The fifth, between the104 Sea. It branches from the the laft vertebra and os facrum, and the reft between the vertebral interftices; while all of them, after being refle&ed round the fpine, fink into the intervening fpaces of the verte- bras The right are longer than the left. T he fuperior proceed in a ftraight line, while the inferior incline a little downwards. Two fometimes arife from a fingle trunk ; and all, except the firft, are covered by the pfoas mufcle. They agree in this, that each fends to the adjoining intervertebral fpace A. Two Spinal Branches—rifing fometimes fepa- rately, but mod commonly by one trunk, and run- ning in the courfeof the nerve,' as it comes out from the fpinal marrow. The firjl is larger, entering the involucrum that lines the vertebrae, forming a plexus with the neighbouring arte- ries, and conftituting arches that encircle the membrane. The fecond, after fending a branch to this membrane and the bone, finks into the medulla. B. Mufcular Branches—.which are again divided into a. Anterior Branches—diftributed to the pfoas, lumbar, quadratus, and abdominal mufcles | and interwoven anteriorly with the intercojlah, the epigajlrics, and the adjoining arteries of the fame clafs. b. Pofterior Branches—ramified on the pofterior lumbar mufcles ; inofculating upon thefe and the furface of the bones ; and running, with various twigs, to the {kin. The first lumbar pafles behind the drura of the diaphragm, and, penetrating the pfoas, bends*0$ Sea. II. DESCENDING AORTA. bends anteriorly between the tranfverfe muf- cle and the internal oblique. Befides the fpincils, already mentioned, it gives j. A Phrenic Branch—inofculating with the former phrenics and adipofe branches. 2. Brandies to the quadratus, pfoas, and dorfal mufcles. 3. Branches to the abdominal mufcles, where they reach the infericr intercojials and the following lumbars. The fourth lumbar fometimes goes out from a common trunk with its fellow. Of its an- terior branches, one winds around the creft of the ileum, and is exhaufted upon the tranf- verfe and the internal iliac mufcles, where alfo it inofculates with the branches of the ileo- lumbar. The fifth lumbar, fhorter than the others, arifes from the common iliac, or fometimes from the ileo-lumbar; gives pqjlerior branches fimilar to thofe of the preceding arteries; but its anterior branches go only to the internal iliac mufcle, and inofculate with the facro-la- teral artery. DISTRIBUTION of the COMMON ILIAC and its BRANCHES. The common iliacs, which, as noticed al- ready, exhauft the whole of the aorta, oblerve a fimilar106 BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. fimilar diredtion upon the right and left fides. The Right Iliac erodes the lower part of the ve- na cava, near the origin of the iliac vein. The Left leans on the outfide of its concomitant vein, but does not cover it. A little below, each divides into two branches: The one, na- med the Internal Iliac or Hypogajlric, finks into the cavity of the pelvis ; the other, called the External Iliac, paffes to the thigh, where it takes the name of Femoral. Except the facro-mediauJ and, at times, fome minute ureterics, inofcula- ting, upwards and downwards, with branches of the fame name, and others difperfed to the adjoining fat of the peritoneum and the lumbar glands, no other arteries, in general, take their origin from the common iliacs. The sacro-median—of the fame fize as the lum- bar, is an azygous artery; and, riling from the bifurcation, or a little higher from the mid- dle of the aorta, or from one of the lumbars, or fometimes from the iliac, runs down a- Jong the middle of the anterior furface of the os facrum, as far as the coccyx, where it forms, with the facro- laterals, an arch that is convex downwards. In its defeent it gives a. Tranfverfe Branches—three or four in num- ber—running outwards in undulating lines, and communicating, upon the furface of the facral vertebras, with the fucro-latcrals. The firftSett. IT. DESCENDING AORTA. I07 firft generally inofculatcs with the laft lumbar ami ileo-lumbar. 1. A branch, riling to the re&um, fo large as at times to fupply the place of the hcemorrbvidalf and reach to the bladder. c. Branches font, in a radiated form, from the fmall arch, and diftributed to the neighbouring muf- fles and membranes. (I.) The internal iliac, or hypogastric. Five times larger in the foetus than the external; but, after a year, only equal in fize; for while the umbilical continues pervious, exhaufting al- mod the whole blood of the trunk, it feems con- tinued into this artery, forming an arch that is convex downwards, and from whofe circumfe- rence the other fmall arteries of the pelvis are fent off. About to pafs the brim of the pelvis, behind the peritoneum, it lies, with a more ob- tufe angle, in the middle, between the ileum and facrum ; thence bending gradually downwards, between the pelvis and its vifeera. When the um- bilical artery decays, the trunk diftributes its nu- merous branches in fo various dire&ions, that none of them feem to follow its courfe, or to re- prefent its continuation. As the common pudic and ifchiadic, however, are the lowed, and thofe which run mod dired'tly downwards, they have generally been confidered by anatomids as the terminating branches. Its branches, though condant,BRANCHES FROM THE 10S Sea: II conftant, are often irregular in their origin; fometimes iffuing from the trunk, at other times from the larger branches. Of thefe, fome re- main within the pelvis, and are regularly di- fiributed to its vifcera ; while others, emerging from the pelvis, run to its external and adjoin- ing parts. A. The rleo-lumbar, or small iliac—rifing from the pofterior part of the trunk, before of after* the facro-laterals, bends upwards, and concealing itfelf, near the creft of the ileum, between the pfoas and internal iliac mufcles, fends a. Branches to the Pfoas. b. An Afccnding Branch—between the laft lum~ bar vertebra and the ileum ; where it gives + A branch to the iliac mufcle, the ileum and facrum, and the tranfverfe mufcle. -J- -f- A branch, parting between the veitebrae to the fpinal marrow ; inofculating with the ad- joining lumbar and facrolateral. e. A Tranfverfe Branch—running, under the pfoas, io the hollow of the ileum ; divided into -f- A Superficial Branch—parting, along the fur- face of the iliac mufcle, to the creft of the ileum; and giving * Branches to the adipofe fubftance, and the iliac and tranfverfe mufcles, where the trunk terminates. * * Branches anaftomofing with the femoro- abdominal. 4* -j~ A Deep Branch—traverfing the furface of theSett. II. DESCENDING AORTA. IO9 the bone under the iliac mufcle, and Imply- ing its nutritious arteries. B. The sacro lateral arteries—irregular in origin and number. Sometimes only one, fometimes more, even to five, come off from the trunk, from the poflerior iliac, or the ilea- lumbar. If only one be prefent, it goes down, near the foramina of the facrum, as far as the coccyx, and there forms the arch already- mentioned. If more, the fuperior inofculate among themfelves; while the inferior termi- nates in the facro-median. They always give a. Anterior Branches—running to the bodies of the vertebra:; inofculating with the Sacro-me- dian and other neighbouring arteries5 and ra- mifying on the adjoining mufcles and nerves. b. Spinal Branches—four or five in number, each of them entering the facral holes, and diftribu- ted to the fpinal cavity. + An Anterior Branch—forming a plexu3 in- ternally upon the membranes Iheathing the cauda equina, and inofculating with the fu- perior fpinal arteries. + + A Pofterior Branch—palling through the po- ftcrior hole of the facrum, and fupplying twigs to the ganglion of the nerve, the peri- odeum, the ligaments, the multifidus fpinar, and the longiffitnus dorfi ; inofculating with its fellows and the ifcbiadics. C. The umbilical artery—which, in the foe- tus, was the real trunk of the hypogajlric, re- flected upwards to the umbilicus, is, in the adult, converted almoft wholly into a foft fpongyITO BRANCHES FROM TlfE Seel. IL fpongy ligament, lying in the folds of the pe- ritoneum. A certain portion of it, however, nearefl to the trunk, continues open. After having iffued from the anterior part of the internal iliac, it runs down, tranfverfely and inwards, to the lower part of the bladder; but gradually clofes as it is refle&ed on its po fieri or fide. The ligamentous part which remains, rifes dill higher upon the fides of the bladder ; inclines gradually to its fellow of the oppofite fide, and at laft is inferted, a- long with the urachus, in the umbilicus. The portion of the artery which is open in the male, fends out, a. Veficah— two or three in number •, winding up- on the inferior, middle, and fuperior part of the bladder, and inofculating with the other vefical arteries. b. Branches to the ureters and vas deferens, anaf- tomofmg with the pudics. c. HamorrkciJal Branches to the lateral parts of the reftum. In the female, a. Branches, varioufly diltributed, to the fides of the bladder, uterus, and vagina. b. A few ftraight branches to the rettum. D. The inferior yes]cal arteries—varying in number, according as the other branches of the bladder are more or lefs ramified upon it. One, at leaft, is always prefent, riling of- ten from the hypogaflric, near to the umbili- cal j which, after running forwards to the lowerSeel. II. DESCENDING AORTA. I I I lower part of the bladder towards the ure- thra, fends fmaller twigs to the re&urn, or to the vagina of the female. This artery is lar- ger in men where the uterine is wanting ; or if two be prefent, either both, or one at leaf , arifes from the middle bamorrboidul. The il- luftrious Haller has obferved, that they have fometimes given origin to the pudic, i/cbiadic, and obturator. a. A branch to the veficulx feminales, vas deferens, and proftate gland—running up between the bladder and reeftum, and inofculating both at the veficulx and beyond the proftate gland, with the profunda penis, or deep perineal and the branch from the oppofite fide. b. A branch—going to the bulb, and anaftomofing with branches of the common pudic. E. The middle hemorrhoidal artery—ir- regular in its origin, and fometimes wanting; but, in general, rifes between the pudic and poflcjior iliac, or the pudic iifelf. After va- rious flexions near the bladder and the vagi- na, it attaches itfelf to the rectum, on vvhofe anterior furface it runs as far as its fphincter mufcle. Sometimes it is fo large as to give off both the uterines and facro-lateral.—In men it gives, a. Numerous branches, winding on the rectum through its whole defeent, and inofculating of- ten with the mefenteric hemorrhoidal and tire branches of the oppofite fide. b. Branches, running down to the external fphinc- ter.1X2 Sett. II. BRANCHES FROM THE ter, the levator, and the fkin, and anaftomofing freely with the external bamorrhoidals. e. Branches, diftributed upon the bladder, urethra, feminal veficles, and proftate gland, as the ar- tery runs between the bladder and the rec- tum. If the middle hamorrhoidal only fend branches to the re£lum, thefe fometimes form a Cngle trunk. In women it gives, a. Inteftinal Branches. b. Confpicuous Branches—diftributed to the vagi- na, where it lies upon the rettum. Thefe often form a particular vaginal trunk. F. The uterine—a large artery, peculiar to the female. It blues, in fuch a manner, from the hypogajlric trunk, near the hamorrhoidal pudic, or umbilical, as to have often the ap- pearance of being a branch of one of them. Between the cervix uteri and the bladder it touches thefe vifcera; traverfes the fides of the uterus, and, finally, winds upon its pofterior furface. It gives a. A Vefical Branch—diftributed, often double, to the bladder, where it refts upon the commence- ment of the vagina. b. A Defcending Branch—ftraight; often confid- ing of many twigs, fpreading extenfively upon the vagina, and fending forwards fome fmal! ve- ficals. If many vaginal branches be prefent, they here inofculate with its various twigs. c. An Afcending Branch—giving out numerous fer- pentine branches, running between the outer coat of the Fallopian tube, ovarium, and uterus. ThefeSett.IL DESCENDING AORTA. I 13 Thefe inofculatc freely with the fpermaticSy and often with the artery of the oppofite fide. N. D. The artery frequently rifes by itfelf from the hypogaftric, and chiefly from the middle ha- morrhoidal; which, under the name of vaginal, is extenfively diftributed upon the vagina, as far as its external parts. I11 that cafe, the dcfcend- ing branch of the former artery is wanting; and fome twigs of this one, afcending to the cervix, inofculate with the uterine. In other cafes, the vaginal branches are much fmaller than thofe which go to the uterus. G. The obturator artery—riling fometime9 from the epigaflric branch of the external iliac, and running down towards the pelvis ; fome- times, and indeed more frequently, iffuing from the trunk of the hypogajlric, the pojle- rior itiac, the ifcbiadic, or ileo-lumbar. It runs downwards and forwards, connected with, the bones of the pelvis by cellular membrane, following the fuperior edge of the obturator internus; and, palling through the linuous de- prefiion of the thyroid hole, runs to the thigh with its concomitant nerve and vein. In the pelvis, it gives a. Branches to the glands fituated among the iliac veflels ; but which are often wanting. b. Branches to the levator ani, iliacus internus, pfoas, and bone—alfo often wanting. c. Branches to the inferior part of the bladder, rec- tum, feminal veficles, and proftate gland, in- ofculating with the pudic. Thefe alfo are often wanting, though at times they are of confider- H able114 BRANCHES FROM THE Se5l.IL able fize, and divide into many fmaller branches, running as far as the corpora cavernofa penis. d. A Coronary Branch—running along the fuperior and internal margin of the os pubis •, proceed- ing under the periofteum, and inofculating with its fellow of the oppofite fide. From this branch- es afeend to the abdominal mufcles, efpecially the re£li, and to certain ramuli of the epigaftric. e. Branches (hooting out to the obturator internus, in its paffage through the thyroid hole. Beyond the pelvis, it divides into /. The External Branch—running down betwixt the two obturator mufcles, following the exter- nal margin of the foramen, and bending to the tuberofity of the ifehium: afterwards defeend- ing to the back part of the thigh, between the acetabulum and tuberofity, under the femoral quadratus. Gives out u. Branches to both the obturator mufcles. /?. External Branches to the capfule of the joint, y. A Deep Branch—finking into the acetabulum, and diftributed to the inter-articular fat, the round ligament of the joint, and periofteum. t. A branch, which, after inofculating with the in- ternal branch, is fpent upon the large femoral adduftor. i. A branch, inofculating, aftd forming a coronary ><>; plexus, near the tuberofity of the ifehium, with the internal branch. i*. £. A branch, diftributed to the pofterior part of the capfule, the periofteum of the tuberofity, the addu&or magnus, and the quadratus. if. Many anajlomotic branches, interwoven with the defeending branch of the internal circumflex on the quadratus ; with the ifchiadic near the qua- dratus :# Sett\ IL DESCENDING AORTA. 115 dratus ; and with the external heemorhoidals of the pudic at the tuberofity of the ifchium. O. Branches—fometimes wanting—diltributed, af- ter perforating the quadratus, to the higher ex- tremity of the femitendinofus, biceps, femimem- branofu3, and furface of the tuberofity of the ifchium. g. The Internal Branch—running firft backwards, under the obturator externus to the inner mar- gin of the foramen, and inofculating, by its ex- treme branches beyond that mufcle, with the branches of the internal circumflex. From this g° a. Blanches to the obturator mufcles. P. A branch, extending beyond the obturator, a- bove the adduftor brevis, to the gracilis and fym- phyfis pubis, and difappearing upon the (kin of the genitals. This branch inofculates with thofe of the pudic. V. Branches, diltributed to the capfule, long ad- ductor, and quadratus, after the artery has pair- ed the obturator, and inofculating, on the tri- ceps, with the internal circumflex. $. A branch, forming a coronary arch with the ex- ternal branch at the tuberofity of the ifchium. From this are font twigs to the adduCtor mag- nus and biceps, anaflomofing with the common pudic. 'I he remaining trunk, which here runs into the circumflex, is fent to the quadratus and the heads of the adduCtor. But this artery is throughout very irregular. H. The "posterior iliac, or gluteal—the lar- geft of all the arteries, ilTuing from the hypo- gaflric. It rifes early from the back part of the trunk, below the Jaero- late mis and obtu- H 2 rator ;Jl6 BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. rator ; pafies deeply, upwards and backwards, to the fuperior edge of the pyriform mufcle, till, concealed by the two trunks of the if- cliiadic nerve, it leaves the pelvis: then wind- ing externally around the pyriformis, it dif- tributes its branches among the gluteal muf- cles. Within the pelvis, it fometimes gives rife to the ileo-lumbar, obturator, facro-late- rals, ifchiadic, and common pudk. Before leaving the pelvis, it gives i. Branches to the re&um ; though often wanting. 2- A Nutritious Branch to the ileum and internal iliac mufcle. 3. A branch, ramified on the pyriformis, middle and lefier gluteus, and inofculating with the ifchiadic. On leaving the pelvis, or foon after, the trunk is divided into a. The Superficial Branch—running down betwixt the pyriformis and middle gluteus, under the great gluteus ; and again divided into a. An spending Branch—bending upwards around the margin of the middle gluteus, and diftribu- ting its ramuli to the middle gluteus, the fupe- rior part of the great gluteus, the os facrum, and adjoining part of the ileum. It inofculates at the facrum with the poferior facrah, and on the furface of the ileum with the deep branch. Some branches perforate the gluteus, and be- come cutaneous. /}, A Depending Branch—which foon ramifies— running between the middle and great gluteus; then to the great gluteus ; which, having per- forated, it terminate* in the Ikin. It gives alfo + A»i7 DESCENDING AORTA. Sea. II, 4. A branch to the pyriformis. -J—h A branch to the ligaments of the ileum, which, after perforating thefe external- ly, is didributed to the facrum. b. The Deep Branch—concealed under the middle gluteus, where it divides into two branches ; of which the u. Superior Branch—traverfing the origin of the leffer gluteus as far as the fpine of the ileum, forms an arch, running forward, between the an- terior mufcles of the thigh, to the lkin. It gives 4- Branches, proceeding from the con- vexity of the arch, to the middle gluteus and cred of the ileum. -f- 4. Branches from the concave part of this arch, running between the lef- fer gluteus and the ileum to the capfule, and communicating with the branches of the profundiffma. 4- + + A Pofterior Nutritious Branch of the ileum. 13. A Tranfverfe Branch—running forward, under the middle gluteus, on the furface of the lefier gluteus, and terminating in its mufcular fibres. It gives befides + Numerous branches to the middle gluteus, *4* + The Profundiffima, or Deeped Ar« tery of the Ileum—running down, on the furface of the ileum, and be- yond the flefhy part of the lefler gluteus, towards the trochanter and anterior parts of the ileum. In this courfe it fends off, around the tro- chanter, fome branches to the peri- ofteum, and ofhers to the cred of H3 theSeel. II. BRANCHES FROM THE the ileum, the margin-of the aceta- bulum, and the Idler gluteus ; inof- culating with the abdominal, with the fuperior ramulus of the deep branch, and at the upper extremity of the fartorius with branches of the external circumjlex. I. The ischiadic—fmaller than the former ar- tery, but obferving the fame courfe with the hypogcijlric. It paffes from the pelvis, be- tween the lower edge of the pyriformis and tjie levator ani, and defeends, under the great gluteus, parallel with the larger ifchiadic li- gament. I have obferved the trunk divided into two, fending off the middle hcemorrhoidal and pudic.—Within the pelvis, it gives a. Many, but irregular, branches to the re£tum, uterus, bladder, and obturator internus. b. Branches to the pyramidalis, inofculating, at the pafTage of the trunk, outwards with the pudic branches. Without the pelvis, c- The Coccygeal—concealed by that portion of the great gluteus which is attached to the facrum, coccyx, and the large facro-fciatic ligament, and running under this ligament to the coccyx. It is fingularly ramified, and gives origin to u. Branches, perforating the fibres of the ligament and great gluteus, running to the coccygeus and fat around the levator. R. A Deep Branch—diilributed to the coccygeus, the bone, and the levator ani; inofculating with the pudic. y. Many Anajiomotic Branches—forming inofcula- tionsDESCENDING AORTA 119 Sea. II. tions with the facro-laterah on the outer fide of the facral holes ; or, paffing through the holes, in the cavity of the pelvis. d. The Concomitant Ifchiadic—hrft. approaching the great gluteus, and then running extenfively on the furface of the nerve, till, at laft, it meets with fimilar arteries, arifing below the quadra- tus from the internal circumflex, or the flrfi perforant, with which it inofculates. e. Branches, anaftomofing, beyond the tuberofity of the ifchium, with the common pudic and inter- nal circumflex. f. A branch, which is often divided a fecond time, bending, downwards and forwards, between the gemelli and pyriformis, to the trochanter, dis- tributing its twigs to the leffer and middle glu- teus, obturator, gemelli, pyriformis, the nerve, the quadratus, trochanter, articular capfule, and the periofteum of the acetabulum. Of thefe, Some generally inofculate, beyond the pyrifor- mis, with the deep branch of the poflerior iliac, and (fill deeper, under the mufc)e, with the po- flcrior trochanteric of the internal circumflex. Sometimes a fmaller trunk fends off a few ar- teries 5 of which the mod regular and conftant are thofe which lie deep, and anaftomofe. g. A Deep Branch—running down, before the ob- turator, to the tuberofity of the ifchium ; fend- ing twigs to the tuberofity and its mufcles, and modulating with the pudic and obturator. h. Gluteal Branches—numerous—terminating in the great gluteus and the adjoining adipofe fub- ftance. Thele exhauft the reft of the trunk. K.. The commom pudic—the pudic—circum- flex.BRANCHES FROM THE Sift. 11. 120 FLEX, INTERNAL, MIDDLE, Or EXTERNAL PU- BIC—riling, often from a common trunk, with the ifchiadic, but is ealily diftinguilhed by its fmaller fize, by its bending more forwards and inwards while in the pelvis, by its palling out between the pyriformis and the pofterior part of the levator ani, and by its greater di- llance from that extremity of the pyriformis which is attached to the facrum. No fooner has it palfed from the cavity of the pelvis, than it is concealed by the great fa- cro-fciatic ligament, under which it runs to the fpine of the ifchium, an/1 enters the fpace between the lelfer and greater facro- fciatic ligaments. Having palfed the fpine, it next runs to the furface of the tuberolity of the ifchium which looks inwards to the pelvis; where, being attached to the bone by the aponeurofis of the obturator internqs, and following the curved margin of the ifchium, it bends forwards to its ramus. The artery is here exhaulted by two branches fent off near the tranfverfe mufcle of the perineum. Its branches form three clalfes. The firjl, comprehending thofe arteries which rife from the trunk as it defcends within the pelvis, viz. a. Small branches to the re&urn and its conglobate glands. b. Vefical Branches—to the lower part of the blad- der ; and if the branch be large, to the proftate gland,121 DESCENDING AORTA. Sell. II gland, the feminal veficles, or the vagina. Thefe, as well as the former, are often wanting. c. A branch to the obturator internus. The feconcl clafs, the branches iffuing from the trunk while fituated between the two liga- ments, and afterwards traverfing the curved margin of the tuberofity of the ifchium. Thefe are, a. Branches, palling before the ligament to the py- riformis and great gluteus. b. A branch, defcending beyond the gemelii and obturator, and inofculating with the internal circumflex and obturator. It is often wanting. c. A branch—running tranfverfely, along the mar- gin of the fuperior gemellus, to die trochanter anfl its periofteum ; fending off two ramuli, to be diftributed under the obturator internus on the ifchiadic portion of the acetabulum ; others inofculating with the obturator and circumflex ; and {till others, finking into the gemelii, obtu- rator, and trochanter. This branch fometimes rifes from the ifchiadic, as was mentioned above at/. d. Branches going outwards, in the courfe of the artery, under the ligaments, to the obturator, the periofteum of the tuberofity, and beyond that to the origin of the femitendinofus and tri- ceps magnus. Thefe alfo generally inofculate freely, around the tuberofity, with the internal circumflex and the obturator. e. Branches, iffuing from the inner fide of the ar- tery ; running deep to the coccyx, and inofcu- lating with the ifchiadic coccygeal. f. External Hgmorrhoidal Branches—a number of themBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. 122 them fpreading inwards on the levator ani, the furrounding fat, and the fphin£ter. Some twigs, having perforated the levator, reach the re&um, and inofculate with the middle hamor- rhoidal. g. A branch, riling from the inner margin of the trunk, and divided, near the tranfverfe mufcle, to the fphinfter, perineum, and tranfverfus pe- yinei. The third clafs comprehends thofe branches if- fuing from the trunk as it bends forwards, without the pelvis, to the ramus of the ifehi- um. Near to the tranfverfe mufcle of the perineum the pudic artery divides, and fends out a. The Superficial Perineal—running, in men, be- yond the tranverfus perinei, in the triangular fpace between the bulbo-cavernofus or acce- lerator urinae, and ifchio-cavernofus or erec- tor penis, where it afeends under the Ikin, or between the mufcular fafeiculi •, and at laft dif- appears, in many branches, upon the furface of the genitals—proceeding, in females, between the ifchio-cavernofus and the conftridtor cunni or vaginal fphin&er. From this arife, a. The Tranfverfe Perineal—running tranfverfely, and fending twigs to the tranfverfe mufcle, anal fphin6ter, and Ikin : advancing in females to the vaginal fphinfter and labia. G. Branches to the bulbo cavernofus. y. Branches to the ifehio cavernofus or ereftor of the clitoris. Long Scrotal Branches—winding in the cellular fubftanceSen, II. DESCENDING AORTA. 1^3 I. Many fubftance of the dartos, as far as the teftes: in the female ramified within the labia. f. Branches to the corpora cavernofa of the penis or clitoris. 1. Branches, inofculating with the external puciics, and rifing from the trunk, where it approaches the labia or penis. b. The Deep Perineal, or Deep Artery of the Penis or Clitoris—in males, after lying deep under the tranfverfus perinei, between thebulbo-cavernofus and the ifehio-cavernofus, it pafles upwards, at- tached by cellular membrane, to the bone, be- tween the ramus of the ifehium and pubis and the corpus cavernofum ; at laft reaching the fynchondrofis pubis and the penis, at the junc- tion of its cavernous bodies, is there divided.— In females, it runs between the vaginal fphinc- ter, the eredlor of the clitoris, and its caver- nous fubftance; palling afterwards between this and the os ifehium and pubis to the body of the clitoris. In this courfe are fent oft'in males, *. Two large branches, running into the urethra and its cavernous fubftance, and afterwards to the penis. 3. Smaller branches, rifing from each fide of the trunk ; going to the ifehio cavernofus, obturator internus, bulbo-cavernofus, the crura of the cor- pora cavernofa, Cowper’s glands, and the pro- ftate. Thofc which run to the proftate inolcu- late with the inferior •veficals. From the above divifion of the artery proceed y. The Dorfal of the Penis —running fuperficially under the integuments, and through the whole length of the penis, furrounding it behind the glans; giving offBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. 124 1. Many branches, inofculating with the for- mer fcrotal branches. 2. Branches to the furface of the corpora ca- vernpfa and the praepuce. 3. Branches, inofculating, near the glans, with fimilar branches of the oppofite fide. ,4. Branches to the praeputial frenulum. 5. Branches finking into the glans. <?. The Profunda, or Deep Branch of the Penis— after anaftomofing with its fellow, enters the corpus cavernofum of its own fide, through which it paffes, in a ftraight line, to its other extremity. Many of its branches open into the cavernous cells of the penis; fome into the ca- vernous fubftance of the urethra ; and others, af- ter perforating the feptum of the penis, into the cells of the oppofite fide. Thus are the cellular parts of the penis diflended with blood during erection. From the Deep Perineal, or Deep Artery of the Clitoris, in females, arife, a. Branches from different parts of the trunk, run- ning to the tranfverfus perinei, the fat, creftor of the clitoris, clitoris, urethra, and the vagina beneath its fphin&er. From the divided trunk iiTue, fi. A Large Vaginal Branch. y. The Superficial Dorfal of the Clitoris. t. The Profunda, or Deep Branch of the Clitoris— running to the corpora cavernofa, as in males. (II.) The external iliac—the other branch cf the Common Iliac after it has divided into two branches, near, or a little below, the junc- tion of the facrum and ileum. It obferves the fameI25 Sett. II. DESCENDING AORTA. fame oblique diredlion outwards as the common iliac, and continues the fame courfe when un- der the name of femoral and popliteal. Having palled obliquely over the inner edge of the pfo- as, and, running behind the peritoneum, upon thisr mufcle and- the tendinous portion of the iliacus, it paffes to the thigh under the Fallopian ligament, along with the iliac vein, which co- vers it before, and the crural nerve, which is at- tached to its external fide. For greater accura- cy of defcription, we define its extent by the in- ferior and external margin of the ligament, de- nominating the continuation of the trunk the common femoral. The branches of this ar- tery within the abdomen are, A. Many minute branches—varioufly dis- tributed to the pfoas, iliacus, lymphatic glands, vefTels, peritoneum, and the fat. Thefe, however, are fometimes wanting. B. The epigastric—riling, by an acute angle, from the inner fide of the trunk, near the ex- ternal lateral margin of the abdominal ring and the inferior part of the Fallopian liga- ment. It firft runs downwards; then, being immediately reflected, proceeds inwards, be- hind the internal and pofterior furface of the fpermatic cord and epigaflric vein. Now ri- ling a little higher, and refling upon the pe- ritoneum as it lines the abdominal mufcles, it paffes the outer and fuperior commiffure of the126 Seel. IT. branches from the the abdominal ring, and then proceeds in- wards, under the inferior part of the tranf- verfe mufcle, bending to the rectus, behind which it afeends to the umbilicus. It at laft divides into two principal branches; and id this courfe fends off, in the following order, a. The Funicular Artery—riling under the funicu- lus or cord ; palling through the abdominal ring, and dividing upon the cellular fubftance of the cord ; where it fends off a. A Tranfverfe Branch — didributed to the pubis. £. Branches winding upon the inguinal fat, and bending to the aponeurofis of the external o- blique. y. Smaller Branches—didributed to the cremafter and tunica vaginalis. Branches linking to the epididymis of the teftes. f. Branches, inofculating, at various places thro’ this courfe, with the fpermatic artery of the aor- ta, and with other fpermatic branches ifiiring from the externalpuclic. N. B. In females, a branch is reflected from this artery to the uterus, accompanying the round ligament* and inofculating frequently with a branch from the uterines and the fpermatic. Ci- thers are fent through the ring, winding upon the mons veneris and the labia. b. Smaller Branches—iffuing feparately under the bend of the trunk running to the tranfverfe mufcle, the pofterior fheath, and inferior muf- cular part of the re£tum. c. Similar Branches—wandering outwards, in the courfe of the artery, to the peritoneum and tranf- verfalis ; and through that to the obliquus and the Ikin. d. Several127 Sea. II. DESCENDING AORTA. d. Several more confpicuous branches, and more deeply ramified—rifing, in various places, from the trunk, as it pafles behind the re£fus. e. The External Branch—the lefier divifion of the trunk, commencing below the umbilicus ; pro- ceeding outwards, and behind the external mar- gin of the reclus, and, running towards the ribs, between the obliquus internus and tranf- verfalis ; inofculating, in this courfe, with the external trunk of the internal mammary, the mufculo-phrenic, and the lovjcjl intercojlals. f. The Internal Branch—larger—running oblique- ly, under the reftus, to the umbilicus ; and di- viding into, a. A Sulcutaneous Branch—running fuperficially on the internal margin of the reftus; and, whiltl it inofculates with the twigs of the oppofite fide and the fmaller arteries of the mammary, runs to the umbilicus, and winds as high as the enfiform cartilage. P. A Deep Branch—from which arife, + Double Branches—perforating the um- bilicus, and plunging deep into the ca- , vity of the abdomen, along with the umbilical vein and arteries, whofe courfe they generally follow. Thefe branches, fent towards the bladder and liver, inofculate with a certain branch from the hepatics, and with others from the veficals. + Branches, under the reftus, anaftomo. ling, in many places above the umbili- cus, with the internal epigajhic branch of the mammary. C. The CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC, ABDOMINAL, Or SMALLBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. small external iliac—generally fmaller than the laft, and fent off a little lower from the external fide of the trunk • paffes, up- wards and outwards, in a retrograde courfe, under the peritoneum ; reaches the crefl of the ileum ; and bending, parallel to the arch- ed circumference of this bone, to the highefl part of the crefl, proceeds between the extre- mity of the iliacus internus and tranfverfalis, as alfo betwixt the tranfverfalis and obliquus internus, where it is finally expended among the abdominal mufcles. From this arife, a. A branch, ramified on the iliacus internus, farto- rius, fat, and inguinal glands. b. A branch to the fpermatic cord ; often wanting. c. Branches, running, from various places, to the pfoas, crural nerve, and ijiacus internus ; inof- culating frequently with the tranfverfe branch of the ileo-lumbar. d. Four branches, or fometimes more, of which the exterior are the largeft, running to the tranfver- falis and obliquus internus; and, after penetra- ting this mufcle, palling, under the obliquus ex- tern us, with many branches, to the anterior part of the abdomen, inofculating with branches of the intercojlal, lumbar, and mammary arteries. e. A branch, forming, on the middle of the crefl:, a double anaftomofis with the ileo-lumbar. f. An Ultimate Branch—exhaufting the artery winding anteriorly between the obliquus and tranfverfalis. As it here fubdivides into branch- es, rifing as high as the ribs, it difappears on the Ikin, and forms a plexus with the adjoining velfels.DESCENDING AORTA. 129 Sed. II. THE COMMON FEMORAL. 4 The common femor^k is a continuation of the External Iliac, where it runs without the Fal- lopian ligament in the groin. The femoral vein, under which it lies, conceals its internal margin, while the whole is covered by a large quantity of cellular fubftance, fat, a number of inguinal glands, and the broad fafcia of the thigh. Af- ter advancing about two inches, it divides, on the outer and mufcular part of the iiiacus internus, into two arteries of nearly equal fize. Of thefe, the one, which is a continuation of the trunk, is called the Superficial Femoral j and the other, which rifes from the back part of the trunk, the Deep Femoral, or Femoral Profunda. From the common trunk generally ifliie A. Small branches—palling over the Fallopian ligament, and running extenlively upwards to the Ikin of the abdomen. B. Inguinal branches—varying in number; wandering through the fat, and chiefly dis- tributed to the inguinal glands. C. A smaller branch—which immediately di- vides into ramuli, running outwards and tranf- I yerfely.Sea. II. *3* BRANCHES FROM 1HE verfely, to the upper extremity of the fartori- us, the iliacus internus, the crelt of the ileum, the broad fafcia, and the middle gluteus. D. Minute branches—terminating in the ilia- cus, pfoas, and pedtineus; inofculating with the internal circumflex branch, and fometimes linking deep among the mufcles. E. The superior external pudic—running upwards and inwards, above the genitals, to the pubes, where it is difperfed upon the fub- cutaneous fat and the upper part of the geni- tals. F. The middle ExtERNAL p udic—divided into many branches; palling, in males, tranfverfely and inwards, above the pedtineus and adduc- tor longus, to the tides of the fcrotum, and running, fubcutaneous, along the penis to the praepuce : But in females, proceeding to the labia and the praepuce of the clitoris. G. The inferior external pudic—riling often from the fuperficialfemoral artery, and, after leaving the adductor and gracilis, linking deep into the fcrotum ; where it inofculates freely with the fuperficial perineal, the bypogaflric fcrotalsy the former branch, and with branches of the obturator and internal circumflex : Send- ing twigs, alfo, to the glands and the fperma- tic cord, or the labia. H. A branch to the fartorius and redtus, often accompanying the crural nerve deep amonglt the mufcles, - AT, B.DESCENDING AORTA. '3* Sea. IL 1 z ‘ often N. B. All thefe arteries vary often in number and diftribution, and are very irregular in the order in which they are fent off. (I.) The deep femoral—concealed, at its o- rigin, by the fuperjicialfemoral, the glands, and a quantity of fat, lies in the deep triangular ca- vity, between the iliacus, pecflineus, and adduc- tors ; and, bending with a flexure, convex out- wardly, over the united iliacus and pfoas, runs, backwards and downwards, to the higher extre- mity of the vaflus internus. As it reaches the bottom of this cavity, it again bends gently for- wards j and, palling between the long and fliort addudiors and the vaflus internus, Tuns, down- wards and backwards, near to the middle of the femur. At laft, entering the fpace between the long and fliort addu&ors, or perforating this laft mufcle, it reaches the addudlor magnus, and pafles through it, with various branches, run- ning among the poflerior mufcles of the thigh. The firlt direction and flze of the trunk vary conliderably, according as it iflues, fooner or later, from the common femoral, and according to the number and flze of the branches which it fends off. Of thefe, fome are of little confe- quence ; but four of the following merit atten- tion. A. Many small branches—fome of which areSett. 11. BRANCHES FROM THE ^32 often wanting; riling either feparately, or forming together a common trunk—diftribu- ted, in various places, to the iliacus internus, capfule, Ikin, fartorius, vaftus externus and internus, and the heads of the triceps \ and inofculating, on ihefe mufcles, with fmall twigs of the internal and external circumflex. At times they fend off fome external pudic branches. B. The external circumflex—a confpicuous branch, and often the firlt when it arifes from the common trunk ; though it fometimes if- fues from the fuperflcial femoral. It bends outwards, between the iliacus internus, the redtus and fartorius, and between the tenfor of the broad fafcia and the anterior furface of the middle gluteus; and, palling tranfverfely under the tendinous head of the vaftus exter- nus, difappears at lalt near the root of the large trochanter. In this courfe, its principal divilions are, a. A branch, finking in the iliacus internus, and re- turning to the cavity of the pelvis. b. Another branch, extending, under the iliacus, to the inner fide of the femur; inofculating, near the trochanter minor, with a branch of the in- ternal circumflex. c. The Large Tranfverfe Branch—conftituting the fuperior part of the trunk, where it lies under the vaftus ; and giving out, near to its origin, o. Branches to the iliacus, tenfor of the broad faf- cia, and the higher extremity of the fartorius and re&us. . Manyi33’ DJESCNEDING AORTA Sett. II. p. Many branches, rifmg from the anterior part of the trunk, bending upwards and outwards, and terminating, in various ramifications, on the ten- for of the broad fafcia, the middle gluteus, and fometimes on the anterior and lower portion of the great gluteus. y. A Branch, winding outwards between the iliacus and lefler gluteus, and fpreading on the external furface of the pelvis, where it inofculates with the prcfundifjima or deepef branch of the ileum, i. The yInterior Trochanteric Branch — of fmall fize (fometimes very fmall)—lying between the ilia- cus internus and the anterior margin of the vaf- tus externus. It runs, under the middle and lefier gluteus, on the anterior part of the tro- chanter major, where, concealed by a quantity of fat, and terminating in the trochanteric fofia, it inofculates with the pojlcrior trochanteric, af- ter fending branches to the forefaid mufcles, the bones, and the capfule. «. Two or three large Tranfverfe Branches—the laft ramifications of the trunk —covered by the vaftus externus ; winding round the root to the back part of the trochanter, and anaftomofing, upon the tendon of the greater gluteus, or be- yond it, near the bone, with the tranfverfe branch of the firfl perforant and the defending branch of the poferiar trochanteric. From thefe pro- ceed, -f Branches to the ciuralis and vaftus externus. + -f- Minute Nutritious Branches to the furface of the trochanter and fe- mur. + + + Subcutaneous Branches, forming a circleBRANCHES FROM THE *34 Sea. II. circle at the root of the large tro- chanter. d. The Large Defcending Branch—rifing from the trunk, where it feems continued into the great tranfverfe branch already mentioned, it winds un- der the reftus to the anterior margin of the vaf- tus. In its courfe to the patella, it is covered, neat the cruralis, by the margin of the valtus exter- nus; fending branches to the latter, but not to the former. A little above the knee, and near the patella, it approaches fo near the furface, that its laft inofculation with the external arti- cular is frequently feen through the fubltance of the mufcle. It fends a. A Large Branch to the reftus, defcending on its pollerior furface, to which it gives a number of branches—communicating with the anajlomo• tic of the fuperfcial femoral by a double branch, that fends a twig through the vaftus internus to the inferior extremity of the redtus. Tranfverfe Branches—from three to fix—irregu- lar in fize, origin, and diftribution ; rifing vari- oufiy from the outer fide of the defcending trunk upon the vaftus mufcle, and running back- wards to the pofterior parts. Of thefe, a fupe- j rior branch unites with the tranfverfe twigs of the JirJl perforant ; the inferior unite with the external tranfverfe of the f cond perforant, and with the inferior perforant of the fuperfcial ar« 1 tery. N- B. Befides the inofculations of this trunk with the fuperior cxterno-articular, it forms another inofculation with the fuperior inte^no-articular and the anafomotic, by fending a branch, be-' tween the cruralis and re£Uis, to the inner fide 1 ofSett. II. DESCENDING AORTA. 135 of the femur, near the patella. The artery va- ries much in fize. e. The Small Defcending Branch—rifing fometimes from the fuperjicial, fometimes from the large tranfverfe branch of the circumflex : firft fend- ing twigs, under the reftus, to the fartorius and vaftus internus ; then winding inwards through the fubftance of this mufcle, inofculates at laft, under the tendon of the triceps, with the infe- rior perforant of the fuperjicial femoral, or, more frequently, with the large anaflomotic. I have obferved it, at other times, pafs outwards to the cruralis and vaftus externus. C. The internal circumflex—rifes, near the origin of the external circumflex, from the in- ternal and pofterior part of the trunk ; pafies to the interior and middle part of the pe&ine- us through the adipofe fubftance, between this mufcle and the tendon of the pfoas, and runs deeply and'tranfverfely backwards, above the trochanter minor. Concealed here by mufcles and fat, it divides into branches, between the fhort and great adduCtor, or between the ad- ductor and pedtineus. Of thefe branches, the largeft, confidered as the trunk, approaches the neck of the femur, acetabulum, and obtu- rator externus, and, proceeding outwards and backwards to the interftice between the qua- dratus and adduCtor magnus, divides into two branches and is partly expended on the muf- cles attached to the femur, and partly through I 4 theI36 BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. the interftic-e to the flexors of the thigh. Thus are produced, in the following order, a. Branches to the iliacus internus, pfoas, peftine- us, and capfule. b. Tranfverfe Branches to the peftineus, long and Short adduftor, and gracilis, interwoven every- where, upon their Surface, with branches of the fuperjicial femoral and external circumfex, and more deeply with twigs of the obturator; inos- culating, alfo, with pudic branches by a lefs ob- vious twig, running behind the gracilis to the penis All thefe branches are generally Sent off before the trunk is concealed by the peddineus. c. Many branches, rifing Separately while the trunk paffes under the head of the femur, between the trochanter minor and the acetabulum ; distribu- ted to the heads of the triceps, pedtineus, and capfule, and inofculating frequently with other branches of the deep femoral or profunda. d. The Superior Branch, or Superior Anterior Af- cending—of greater Size, Seemingly one-half of the trunk—runs tranfverfely, between the Short and great adductors, towards the fymphyfis pu- bis, Sometimes disappearing there upon the fkin -7-fends a. A branch through the depreffion in the aceta- bulum to the glands, cartilages, and round liga- ment of the joint. A branch, ramified on the obturator externus. y. Branches, diftributed to the capfule, and in ma- ny place? to the great and Short adduftdrs. t. Branches, derived from the former, or rifing fepa- rately; inofculating, at the external and posterior marginScCl, II. DESCENDING AORTA. I37 margin of the thyroid hole, with the external and internal branch of the obturator. The reft of the artery, after diftributing, in this courfe, various branches to the addu£fors, gra- cilis, and genital integuments, inofculates with the external pudics. e. The Inferior Branch, or Inferior Vofierior Cir- cumflex— exhibiting a continuation of the trunk — runs, over the Idler trochanter, to the neck of the femur; diftributing, in its courfe, fmall branches to the capfule of the joint, the aceta- bulum, obturator, and great addu£tor. Be- tween the quadr .tus and great addudor, it di- vides into, 1. The External, or Superior External Branch — often called the Poflerior Trochanteric.—This fmaller iamulu3, concealed by the quadratus, runs obliquely, outwards and upwards, to the pofterior part of the bone, and, as it approaches the trochanter, divides into two branches; the larger afeending obliquely upwards to the tro- chanteric fofla, and the fmaller defeending in a different courfe. Thus are produced, «. Branches to the great adduftor and obtu- rator externus; inofculating frequently with the external branch of the obturator, fi. Branches to the capfule, bone, and quadra- tus, A branch, inofculating, near the origin of this fmaller trunk, with the concomitant if- chiaJic, which fends a twig between the quadratus and the great adduftor. t. Branches, inofculating, at the root of the trochanter major, on both fides of the apo- neurofis, witkthe tranfverfe branches of the external circumflex. FromBRANCHES FROM THE Sell. II. From the Afcending Branch of the divided trunk proceed, * A branch, communicating, behind the quadratus and gemelli, with the deep branch of the ifchiadic, and with a twig of the common pudic, that runs down beyond the gemelli. This laft one the illuftrious Haller confiders as a trunk, and gives it the name of fupcrfcial; but regards the other as a branch of this fuperfcial, and denominates it the pojlerior trochanteric. * * Branches, inofculating, in the trochante- ric foffa, with the anterior trochanteric and the profundijftma of the pojlerior iliac. From the Defending Branch proceeds, + A confiderable ramulus, receiving a twig from the frjl perforant, above the higher part of the adduftor, near the root of the trochanter. 2. The Internal Branch, or Inferior Internal—gene- rally larger than the former—rifes, near the tube- rofity of the ifchium, between the quadratus and adduftor; and, palling through the adipofe fub- fiance, which is here fo largely accumulated, runs to the common origin of the flexors of the thigh. It here fpreads into numerous ramifica- tions, diftributed, partly to the tuberofity itfelf, where inofculations are formed by the branches of the ifchiadic, obturator, and pudic ; partly tq the flexors, but chiefly to the great adduftor. D. The first perforant—running backwards from the trunk, below the fmall trochanter ; and between the peftineus and fhort adduftor, or between its fibres, proceeds, near the vaf- tus internus, in fuch a manner as to pafs o- bliquelySett. II. DESCENDING AORTA. 139 bliquely outwards, between the femur and that part of the great addudor which is at- tached to the bone. About an inch from the great trochanter, it perforates the addudor in two places, under the covering of the great gluteus; to which, along with the flexors, it diftributes its ultimate branches. From this arife, a. Large Branches—fometimes rifing feparately from the deep femoral—exhaufting themfelves upon the vaftus internus, and the fhort and great addudors. b. Branches, fpreading out from the concealed trunk to the addudor, quadratus, and trochanter. c. An Afcending Branch—forming, above the fu- perior extremity of the great addudor, an ele- gant inofculation with the defcending branch of the pojlerior trochanteric. d. A Large TranfverfeP>r&nch—fometimes double — running, under the addudor, to the gluteus; and, after perforating the tendon of this mufcle, proceeding outwards, round the root of the tro- chanter, to the vaftus externus, where it inofcu- lates with the large tranfverfe branch of the ex- ternal circumflex. e. A Branch—often double —rifing, as it were, from the former ; pafling through the addudor to the great gluteus, and there dividing into various branches, inofculating with the gluteal branches of the ifchiadic. f. A Nutritious Branch—running down upon the furface of the bone, and anaftomofing with a nutritious branch of the fccond perforant. g. A Defcending Perforant—palling through the greatBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. great addu&or, and running extenfively on the inner furface of the flexor mufcles. As it here divides into many branches, fpreading outwards and inwards, it diftributes feveral to each of the flexors and the great addu&or, and forms ma- ny fuperficial and deep communications on thefe mufcles with the internal branch of the inferior eircumfilex, with fome recurrent branches of the feecnd perforant, and fometimes, though more rarely, with twigs of the fuperior perforant ri- ling from the fuperficial. Thefe elegant inof- culations are more frequently obferved upon the femimembranofus, addudlor, biceps, and on the nerve. E. The second perforant—exhibiting a conti- nuation of the trunk—pafies, fometimes fingle, and at others double, through the fmall fpace between the long and (hort addu&or, or thro* the long adductor itfelf; then proceeding o- bliquely outwards and downwards, between the femur and great addudtor, and penetra- ting the addudlor near the linea afpera, at the middle of the thigh, and inner fide of the fhort head of the biceps, is exhaufted, like the lafl artery, among the flexor mufcles by a de- feending perforant branch. To this artery are referred, a. Large Branches—finking into the vaftus inter- nus and long addudtor, before the immerfion of the trunk. b. Another Branch, partly diftributed to the vaftus, partly entering the bone by two twigs, and in- ofculating with the large nutritious artery. c. AI4l DESCENDING AORTA. Seel. II. 7. A c. A Large Branch—often double—entering, like the trunk, the long adduftor, but higher; ter- minating in the fubftance of the addudtor, os, as fometimes happens, fending an artery through the belly of the mufcle to the flexors. d. An Afcending Branch—inofculating, near the trochanter, upon the back part of tire bone, with thtfirfl perforant. e. A Superior Tranfverfe Branch—running, either tranfverfely or obliquely, a little below the ten- don of the great gluteus, between this mufcle and the femur, tq the fubftance of the vaftus externus, and anaftomofing with the tranfverfe branches of the large defeending branch of the external circumflex. Before the trunk finks in the vaftus, a branch fometimes rifes fuddeniy from this one, beyond the great adductor, dis- tributed to the external flexors, and known by the name of the third perforant. f. An Inferior Tranfverfe Branch—running in the fame direction as the laft ; and, about two or three inches below the tendon of the great glu- teus, palfes, under the ftiort head of the biceps to the vaftus externus. If the artery proceeds farther, it gives rife, like the laft, to a fourth perforant. It gives «. Many Branches, winding on the adduftor. £. The Large Nutritious Branch of the Femur— running down, near the ftiort head of the biceps, to the outer fide of the linea afpera; inofculating with a fmall inferior nutritious branch from the inferior perforant of the fuperfeial femoral, and penetrating the bone with a larger external branch. This artery is irregular both in origin and direftion.BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. 142 y. A Branch, concealed in the fubllance of the bi- ceps. Branches, meeting the defcending branch of the circumflex on the vailus externus, and fometimes the fuperior externo-articular, with a large twig. They appear to rife from the nutritious branch in fuch a manner, that it feems to be inflefted through the Ihort head of the biceps to the vaf- tus externus. g. Many Branches, diftributed to the Ihort head of the biceps. h. A Defcending Perforant—palling under the flex- ors, after perforating the addudtor, and tranf- mitting ramuli to the external and internal flex* ors. Like g of the jirjl perforant, it forms, up- on the furface and fubftance of thefe mufcles, inofculations upwards with this artery, and downwards with thz perforant of the fupcrficial. (II.) The superficial femoral artery— lying near the external integuments j covered, through its whole courfe, by the broad faj'cia, by the inguinal glands above, and on the middle part by the fartorius as it runs obliquely acrofs the femur. It then proceeds downwards, in- wards, and backwards, palling gradually from the anterior to the inner furface of the thigh, and from that to the pofterior part and hollow of the ham or poples. At firft it is feparated from the deep femoral by a quantity of fat and by the glands; then lies upon the vaftus internusj and, palling along in a declivity between the vaftus internus and addu&ors, enters the oblique canal inDESCENDING AORTA* *43 Sea. II. in the common tendon of the addudlors. Ha- ving paffed through this canal, it takes the name of Popliteal Artery, where it runs from the in- ner to the back part of the thigh. Before reach- ing the pofterior part, it paffes over two-thirds of the femur; and though the thigh be here more {lender than at the fuperior part, it lies deeper concealed among the mufcles. A. Numerous branches—irregular in diftance, order, and fituation—rifing from the trunk as it runs along the anterior and inner part of the thigh, and diftributed to the inguinal glands and fartorius, and through this to the {kin ; alfo to the redus, vaftus internus, long and {hort addudors, and gracilis. Of thefe, fome are larger, fome lefs—entering the mufcles, in different places, from three to fix. B. The LARGE ANASTOMOTIC BRANCH rifing from the inner furface of the trunk, at the fu- perior margin of the tendinous canal; and, bending downwards, fpreads, with many fer- pentine ramifications, on the vaftus internus, into which it finks. From this proceed, a. A Branch to the fartorius and fkin. b. A Branch—running to the outer margin of the tendon of the fartorius before the trunk reaches the vaftus internus; and pafling, along with the tendon, over the joint of the knee, difappears on the fafcia and fkin of the leg. It firft, however, gives many branches to the knee, inofculating with the inferior articular:, and with the recurrent branchM4 Srfi. II. BRANCHES FROM THE branch of the anterior tibial. Like the follow- ing artery, it often rifes feparately from the fe- moral trunk. c. A Branch—rifmg in the tendinous canal, and accompanying the tendon of the triceps which covers it, to the inner condyle of the femur, where, running downwards, it fpreads into va- rious ramifications. It alfo fends off a branch under the tendon, as it is attached to the con- dyle, which runs tranfverfely, upon the periof- teum of the condyle, to the common tendon of the extenfors and the external condyle, where it forms an arch, around this extremity of the femur, with $ie fuperior and inferior externo- articulars, and alfo diftributes twigs to the ca- vity of the joint. d. A Branch—running tranfverfely, perforating the vaftus near the rectus, and inofculating, on the fubftance of this laft mufcle, with a branch of the external circumflex. e. A Branch—riGng in a fimilar manner from the vaftus, and inofculating, on the furface of the knee, with the articular branches. fl A Branch—palling upwards, anaftomofing, up- on the vaftus or cruralis, with the fmall defend- ing branch of the circumflex. C. The superior perforant—ifiuing from the outer fide of the trunk, where it lies concealed by the tendon of the triceps; and, bending tranfverfely backwards, between the pofterior furface of the bom? and the inferior mufcular part of the great addudor, near the origin of the fliort head of the biceps, penetrates the fibres of this mufcle, or thofe of the ad- dudor,St Cl. II. DESCENDING AORTA. 14^ duclor, to the flexors of the thigh—Sending off, in this courfe, a. Branches to the adjacent mufcles. b. A Perforating Branch—which, foon ramifying, inofculates in the fubftance, or on the furface of the flexors, with afcending and defcending twigs, but chiefly on the long head of the bi- ceps with defcending branches of the fecondper- forant, and with afcending branches of the infe- rior perforant. N. B. The perforating branch of this and the fol- lowing artery is fometimes wanting; and the trunk is infle&ed under the biceps only to the vaftus externus, where it pafles into many branches, inofculating varioufly with the neigh- bouring articular artery. D. The inferior perforant—ifluing a little be- low the laft, from the external margin of the trunk ; running tranfverfely, under the adduc- tor magnus, at the pofterior furface of the fe- mur, to the fhort head of the biceps, and un- der that to the mufcular fubftance of the vaf- tus externus. It fometimes extends to the cruralis, and is often double. It gives a. Minute branches to the adjacent mufcles. b. The Inferior Nutritious Branch—fent upwards from the trunk as it pafles under the fhort head of the biceps ; inofculating, on the femur, near the linea afpera, with the fuperior nutritious branch, and diftributing its laft ramuli in the fubftance of the bone. It is fometimes fent off from the former perforant. c. A Perforating Branch—running, in the hollow K ofI46 BRANCHES FROM THE St ft. II. of the poples, to the femimembranofus, and in- ofculating, on its furface, with the fuperior per- forant■ It is fometimes wanting. d. Branches—uniting, on the vaftus externus, with the larger and lejfer defending branches of the external circumflex. e. A Branch—bending to the vaftus internus, and fometimes inofculating, under the tendon of the triceps, with a leffer defcending branch. The popliteal artery—that part of the Superficial Femoral which runs along the hollow t)f the poples. As its limits fhould be accu- rately defined, on account of the numerous branches which arife from it, we obferve, that its fuperior part is bounded by the pofterior mar- gin of the tendon of the triceps, and its inferior by the higher extremity of the foleus mufcle, ■under which it divides into the Anterior and Fo- fierior Fibial Arteries. Being covered external- ly by the aponeurofis which furrounds the joint, it runs obliquely, outwards and downwards, through the adipofe fubftance between the flex- or tendons, pafling into the cavity between the condyles and the heads of the gaftrocnemii. As it proceeds over the joint of the knee, it lies up- on the capfule, and afterwards on the popliteal mufcle. The numerous branches to which, in this courfe, it gives origin, are divided into Ar- ticular and Muficular, Of thefe, the firft are, A. TheDESCENDING AORTA. 347 Seel. IL A. The superior externo-articular—afeend- ing, on the periofteum of the femur, from the outer fide of the trunk, above the condyle, and running, on the periofteum, towards the origin of the fliort head of the biceps; then bending, under the common tendon of the bi- ceps, to the pofterior margin of the vaftus in- terims, divides into two ramuli. a. Many Branches of fmaller fize, running up- wards and downwards, diftributed to the peri- ofteum, capfule, biceps, and gaftrocnemii. b. The Deep Branch—pafting through the vaftus mufde, which it fupplies with ramuli, to the peri- ofteum of the external condyle, and there fpread- ing into various ramifications. Of thefe, forne are diftributed to the lateral ligament and flein; Tome are interwoven with the inferior externo- articular, and the perforating branches of the fupcrjicial femoral; while others run tranfverfe- ly to the internal condyle, and inofculate with the fuperior inte mo-articular. c. TheSuperjiciallirznch.—winding on the furface of the vaftus externus, near its extremity, towards the upper edge of the patella, and anaftomo- fing by an afeending branch with the extremity of the large defeending branch of the circum- flex, and, under the tendon of the redlus, with a branch of the large anajlomotic ; winding al- fo round the patella, and uniting, by various de- feending twigs, with the vafcular plexus of the knee, formed by all the articulars together. B. The superior interno-articular—run- ning, above the inner condyle, from the intc- K 2 riorBRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II, rior edge of the trunk, in a tranfverfe or oblique dire&ion, under the tendon of the triceps, to the patella. It is fometimes double. a. Smaller Branches—diftributed, in the hollow of the poples, to the periofteum, capfule, condyle, and flexor tendons. b. A Superficial Branch—exhibiting a continuation of the trunk—running, between the tendon of the biceps and the vaftus internus, to the furface of the knee, and there forming a vafcular plex- us by its numerous branches. It inofculates, near the lateral ligament, with an afcending branch of the inferior inter no-articular, and, by fending out branches that obliquely perforate the ligamentous ftrata, is extenfively ramified below the patella. N. B. A Deep Branch arifes from the large ana- fiomotic branch of the femoral. C. The middle articular, or azygos—irre- gular in its origin—riling fometimes from the poflerior and outer furface of the popliteal, at other times from the external or internal fupe- rior articular; runs always to the poflerior li- gaments of the knee and the middle of the capfule ; and divides into, a. An External Branch—winding extenfively be- tween the condyles \ running to the poflerior and crucial ligament, and the femilunar carti- lages, and inofculating here with all the adjoin- ing branches. b. An Internal Branch—diftributing its twigs, in the inner fide of the capfule, to the fat of the poples, to the bone, crucial ligament, and cap- fule.l 1L DESCENDING AORTA. *49 D. The INFERIOR EXTERNO-ARTICULAR riHng below the knee joint, under the plantaris and external head of the gaftrocnemius; runs, out- * wards and upwards, to the top of the fibula, and there entering, under the external lateral ligament and aponeurofis, a groove which is formed in the external femilunar cartilage, proceeds, between the femur and the head of the fibula, to the patella. a. Separate Branches—diftributed to the poplite- us, foleus, gaftrocnemius, fkin, and periofteum. b. A Branch, forming a confpicuous inofculation with the tibial recurrent. c. A Superficial Branch—fent off while the trunk refts upon the cartilage •, tranfmitting many fmall ramuli to the vafcular plexus of the knee, the aponeurofis, and fkin ; and inofculating with the fuperior externo-articular. d. Small Branches—entering the femilunar carti- lage, periofteum, and capfule. e. A Deep Branch—entering the capfule near the patella, and fpreading out its various ramifica- tions within the cavity of the joint. E, The inferior interno-articular—defend- ing a little, as it runs inwards below the joint, between the fuperior edge of the popliteus and the gaftrocnemius, to the pofterior angle of the condyle of the tibia; and then palling, un- der the internal lateral ligament of the knee, and the tendons of the internal flexors, to the lower margin of the patella. a. Many Branches—terminating in the popliteus, pofterior and crucial ligaments, capfule and ten- K 3 donsI5<* BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. cions of the flexors; one of them inofculating with the nutritious branch of the poflerior tibial. b. Superficial Branches—difperfed on the aponeu- rofis, to the inferior edge of the patella, and communicating there with the anterior tibial. c. Branches cxhaufted on the common tendon of the extenfors and ligament of the patella. d. Branches to the ligament of the patella, inofcu- lating with the Juperior and inferior externo-ar- ticular. e. A Deep Branch—running along the edge of the internal femilunar cartilage, and inofculating, by a tranjverfe branch, in the hollow of the joint, under the patella, with the inferior exter» no-articular. JV. B. The vafcular plexus, covering the knee, is formed by all the articular arteries, the recur- rent tibial, circumficx, large ana/lomoticy and fome twigs of the perforants. F. Of the muscular branches, which are infi- nitely varied, the following chiefly merit at- tention. a. Two or three Confp'iciious Branches—though often wanting—diftributed to the flexors, but chiefly to the femimembranofus, biceps, and nerve. Thefe fometimes fupply, by reflex branch- es, the want of perforants from the fuperficial femoral. fy. Two Qnflrocncmial Branches—running, in pa- rallel linps, between the heads of the gaftrocne- mius, and penetrating, with various ramifica- tions, the internal fide of the mufcle, in which tbev terminate. Of thefe, one runs, on the fur- faceDESCENDING AORTA. *51 Sea. II. K 4 mod face of the mufcle, to the tendo Achillis, and its infertion into the os calcis. c. Two Branches to the foleus; but fometimes want, ing. d. Branches to the fubftance of the plantaris, peri- ofteurn, veffeis, and nerves. [I ] The ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY—fome- what fmaller than the Pojlerior—rifes anteriorly from the popliteal, at the inferior margin of the popliteal mufcle, and, perforating the interofle- ous ligament, runs from the pofterior to the an- terior part of the leg It here defcends clofe to the ligament, at fir It between the tibialis anti- cus and common extenfor, and then between the anticus and the extenfor longus of the great toe. In this courfe, it lies nearer to the fibula than the tibia ; but having gradually feparated from the ligament, it turns now more forwards and inwards the farther it defcends ; and palling over the lower extremity of the tibia, and over the tarfus, along with the extenfor tendons, un- der the crucial ligament, divides, between the firft and fecond metatarfal bones, into twobrancn- es: of which one, finking between the bones to the planta of the foot, inofculates with the external and internal plantar branches of the po~ Jlcrior tibial, while the other, pafiing along the dorfuin of the foot, runs to the great toe. The152 Sea. II. BRANCHES FROM THE i - mod remarkable branches Hiking from it in this conrfe are, A. A branch to the origin of the pofterior tibial mufcle, or foleus. B. An ascending branch—tranfmitting twigs, under the popliteus, to the external and po- fterior part of the tibia and capfule, and thence to the head of the fibula, the origin of the fo- leus and joint; which, as they are refledled forwards, inofculate with the inferior articular branches. N. B. Thefe branches are fent off before the ar- tery pafies out of the ham. C. The tibial recurrent—winding to the an- terior furface of the knee, between the fupe- rior part of the tibial and extenfor mufcles, or bending upwards through the fubftance of thefe mufcles; and giving, a. Many Branches to thefe mufcles and the liga- ments connecting the bones. b. A Branch—winding round the head of the fi- bula as it paffes outwards under the common extenfor of the toes and the peroneus longus, and inofculating with the branch B. c. Branches—running to the vafcular plexus on the ligaments of the knee, and forming numerous inofculations with the inferior articular. D. A large branch—running down upon the fibula, between the tibialis and peroneus lon- gus, and between the fame peroneus and ex- tenfor communis, and inofculating, near its inferior extremity, with the fibular. E.Sett. II. DESCENDING AORTA* 153 E. Many minute branches—riling, through the whole courfe of the artery, between the two bones of the leg, diltributed to the tibia- lis anticus, extenfors, peronei, aponeurolis, and periofteum of the bone, chiefly of the tibia ; varioufly interwoven with one another, and below with the fibular. F. Branches—partly fent off to the extenfor ten- dons while the trunk lies upon the naked tibia, partly fpreading, in a retrograde courfe, on the furface of the bone, covered by the aponeuro- fis, and meeting here the pojlerior tibial and anterior fibular. 0. The internal malleolar—fpreading vari- oufly while running down on the inner ankle ; jnofculating, by afcending branches, with the preceding ramuli, and ftretching, with dejcend- ing branches, to the capfule, aftragalus, os na- viculare, and cuneiforme ; and uniting, in va- rious places, with branches of the internal plan- tar. H. The external malleolar—forming a large communication, in the interoffeous fpace, or a little below it, with the anterior fibular, or fome of its branches—winding to the external ankle, where it fends, if not fooner, branches to the peroneus brevis, the joint, the Ihort common extenfor, and the tendons of the pe- ronei ; forming, under thele tendons, many inofculations with the pojlerior fibular, and anteriorly with the anterior fibular. It at laft reaches*54 Sea. II branches from the reaches the tarfal arch. It often exhaufts the whole anterior jihular, or rather this takes the courfe of the malleolar. I. Many branches—palling, under the tranf- verfe ligament, to the extremity of the tibia, the hollow of the tarfus, capfule, extenfor ten- dons, the moll of the tarfal bones, particularly the aftragalus and the Ihort extenfor. Some of thefe, winding on the tarfal bones, and bending with ramuli to the planta, run on one fide, near the tendons of the peronei, to the Jihular ; and, on the other, beyond the in- ner margin of the tarfus to the internal plan- tar. K. The TRANSVERSE TARSAL, OF TARSAL fent from the external fide of the trunk, outwards and downwards, under the extenfor brevis, to the furface of the fecond row of tarfal bones, uniting, at the edge of the fifth metatarfal bone, with the external plantar; and thus form- ing the tarfal arch. From this trunk general- ly proceed, a. A Branch—running outwards, between the ar- ticulation of the tibia and fibula, with the aftra- galus ; and, after fending twigs to each articula- tion, inofculating with the pojlerior f.bular and external malleolar. b. A Branch—finking deep into the fovea or pit of the tarfus, and there fupplying its ligaments and fat. (. Branches—riling, in various places, and exhauft- ed on the extenfor brevis. d. BranchesDESCENDING AORTA. 155 Seel. //. d. Branches—diftributed between the cuneiform bones and cuboides of the tarfus. €. The Firjl Dorfo-metatarfal, or Dorfo-intcroffeal— lying in the fpace between the fecond and third metatarfal bones and the interofleous mufcle ^ and, after running to the root of the toes, and giving branches to the extenfor tendons, and others, to inofculate with the pofterior and an- terior perforants and tranfvcrfe metatarfal, ex- liaulting iffclf in the bifurcation of the planta- digital artery. yf. The Second Dorfo-metatarfal> or Dorfo-intproffeal —running, like the laft, to the third interval, and terminating in a fimilar manner. g. The Third Dorfc-mctatarfal, or Dcrjo-interoffcal —riling near the os cuboides ; running in the fourth interval of the metatarfal bones, and Ap- plying fimilar branches as the former metatar- fals. jo. A Branch—rifing at the fifth metatarfal bone from the inofculation of the travfverfe tarjal and external plantar ; running along this bone, and exhaulting icfelf, by forne ramuli, upon the adduttor of the little toe. N. B. The Dorfo-metaiarfals, ox Dcrfo-interoffeaiss often arife from the tranfvcrfe metatarfal; in which pafe, the tranfvcrfe tarfal only produces minute branches, incfculating, near their origin, with the dorfo-mctatarfals. Sometimes, alfo, the dorfo-metatarfals give origin, by meeting with the perforants, to one or two planta-digi- tal branches ; or produce other digitals, fpread- ing on the back of the toes, and inofculating with the true digitals of the external plantar \ ori 56 BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. II. or producing, as in the hand, dorfal branches. The anterior perforants, penetrating, near the roots of the toes, the metatarfal interftices, feem to arife from thefe dorfo-metatarfah; or, if they have iffued from the plantar metatarfals and di- gital.r, anaftomofe with them in the fame place. L. Branches—diftributed, from the inner edge of the tibial artery, to the internal fide of the tibia, the externor .endons, the periofteum, the tendon of the tir ialis anticus, and the na- viculare nd firft uneiform bone. M. A branch—r nnin on the furface of the na- viculare towards the plantar fide of the foot, where, covered by the abdudtor pollicis, to which it gives branches, it inofculates with one or two branches of the internal plantar. N. A branch to the abdu&or pollicis, firft run- ning along the margin of the firft metatarfal bone, and then difappearing on the inner fide of the dorfum of the great toe. O. A branch-—iffuing from the external edge, between the tranjverfe tarfal and tranfverfe metatarfal arteries, giving twigs to the exten- for tendons and the fhort common extenfor. P. The transverse metatarsal artery—va- rying in fize, and fometimes entirely wanting, according to the number and magnitude of the branches which are fent off from the tranj- verfe tarfal. It runs to the commencement of the firft and fecond dorfo-metatarfal bones, and, paffing tranfverfely to the little toe, gives rife157 Sea. it DESCENDING AORTA. rife to metcitarfcil branches, if they have not already been fupplied by the tranfverfe tar- fal. Though fmaller and Ihorter than ufual, it generally gives origin to the metatarfal of the third interval, and the dorfal branches of the third toe. Its ultimate branch, wind- ing, near the os cuboides, under the tendon of the fmall peroneus, is partly exhaufted on the abdudtor of the little toe and peroneal ten- dons, and partly on the plantar integuments. Q,The DORSO-METATARSAL, Or EXTERNAL DOR- SAL of tne great toe—the fuperficial branch of the anterior tibial artery as it is now about to terminate. It traverfes, on the interofleous mufcle, the outer margin of the firft metatar- fal bone ; and gives, a. Minute Branches—fpreading on the furface of the metatarfal bones; inofculating either with the tranfverfe tarfal, or tranfverfe metatarfal, and running to the extenfor tendons. b. The Dorfo'tibialy or Internal Dorfal Branch of the Second Toe—running along the inner or ti- bial fide of this toe. C. The Dorfo-fibulary or External Dorfal Branch of the Great Toe—uniting firft with the external plantar of the great toe, and running afterwards to the termination of the toe. R. The deep anastomotic branch—finking in- to the plantar fide of the foot, where it again appears; and, after fending branches to the abdu&or and adducftor, inofculating with the plantar arch. From this inofculation, or fome- times*53 BRANCHES FROM THE Sett. It times fooner, arifes the plant a-pollicar^ rernark- - able attery on the plantar fide of the great toe, of which I fhall give a defcription along with the plantar branches. [II.] The posterior tibial——the other branch of the Popliteal Artery, where it divides at the fliperior extremity of the foleus—palling down, under the foleus, upon the poderior furface of the flexor longus and tibialis poflicus, to the lower extremity of the tibia, is afterwards in- fledled inwards to the plantar fide of the foot, running between the tendo Achillis and the epi- phyhs of the tibia, behind the internal ankle. While there covered by the laciniated ligament, and involved in fat, it meets, on the inner fide of the foot, the broad extremity of the abdudlor pollicis, and divides into two branches : One of which, paffing to the great toe, I call the Inter- nal Plantar; the other, denominated External Plantar, runs to the foie, between the flexor bre- vis and longus, and under thefe, dill deeper, to the fifth metatarfal bone. Here returning to the great toe, by an oblique and tranfverfe flexion under the tendons of the flexor longus, it forms the- plantar arch. The branches iffuing from this artery I fhall enumerate in the order in which they are exhibited. A. Branches to the inner head of the gaftrocne- mius; often wanting. B.Se5l.IL DESCENDING AORTA. 159 B. The LARGE NUTRITIOUS ARTERY of the TIEIA, or posterior interosseal—fpreading exten- flvely downwards, between the flexor of the toes and pojlerior tibial, above the interofleous ligament, and inofculating with the Jibular at the inferior extremity of the tibia. From this ifllie, a. A Branch to the foleus, popliteus, and periofteum of the tibia, communicating with the defending branch of the inferior interno-articular. b. A Branch to the tibialis pofticus. c. A Nutritious Branch—entering the bone, and diftributing its twigs upwards and downwards. d. Branches—winding, through the whole courfe of the artery, partly on the periofteum of the tibia, and partly on the tibial mufcle and the common flexor. C. A large branch—winding round the exter- nal head of the fibula, under the mufcles, af- ter giving a twig to the foleus, and receiving fome anaftomotic branches of the tibial recur- rent. D. Many large branches to the foleus, inter- woven everywhere with Jibular twigs. E. Some cutaneous branches—running out far with the veins and nerves, and anaftomofing, upwards and downwards, with the anterior ti- bial. F. The common fibular, or peroneal—very ir- regular in fixe and the diftribution of its branch- es. It often equals in dimenfion the anterior tibial; at fome times is entirely wanting -} and atBRANCHES FftOM THE l6o Seel. 11. at other times is rather fmaller than the pof- terior tibial. After rifing, near the fuperior extremity of the tibialis pojlicus, it defeends between this mufcle and the flexor pollicis. A little lower, it is covered by the flexor pol- licis ; and at lalt efcapes the eye of the diflec- tor between the two bones, where it touches the interofleous ligament. Near the inferior extremity of the bones, where they are more clofely connedted, it divides into the anterior and pojlerior fibular arteries. It gives, a. Branches—pafling through the foleus to the fkin, inofculating with other inferior fibular twigs, and with branches of the pofierior tibial. ■ b. A Branch—penetrating the peroneus longus and the flcin. c. Branches—partly exhaufted on the tibialis and the common flexor of the great toe, and partly fpreading on the periofteum of the fibula. •* d. Many Branches—winding tortuoufly, in various places, under the flexor pollicis and peroneus longus, to the anterior part of the fibula, inof- culating there, upwards and downwards, with twigs from the anterior tibial. e. Many Branches—rifing, in various places, from the defeending trunk, and diftributed to the ti- bialis pollicus, peronei, flexor pollicis, the infe- rior tendon of the foleus and gaftrocnemius, the periofteum, and fkin. Of thefe, fome per- forate the interofleous ligament, and terminate between the anterior mufcles. f. The Nutritious Artery of the Fibula—the lafl of the branches which rife from the trunk before it 1161 Sea.II. DESCENDING AORTA. it is covered by the flexor pollicis, ramifying on the periofteum and the fubftance of the bone. g. The Poferior Fibular—the larged and mod re- gular branch of the' commmon fibular. As it proceeds from its cavity, backwards and out- wards, it begins to defcend ; and, after running behind the external malleolus, to the outer and hollow furface of the os calcis, it inofculates, under the abdu&or of the little toe, before the tuberofity of the os calcis, with fome branches of the external plantar, or fometimes is wholly expended on this abdu&or mufcle and the Ikin, It often gives, <». Branches to the long flexors of the toes and the peronei. A Large Tranfvcrfe Anafomotic Branch—uni- ting, on the periofteum of the tibia, and under the tendons of the gaftrocnemius, and the other mufcles, with the poferior tibia!, and fome branch- es of the anterior filial. Other ramuli are fome- times fent from this branch to the ankle-joint and tendo Achillis; which, uniting with others from the fbu/ar and the external malleolar of the anterior tibia/, reach the outer furface of the os calcis. y. A Branch—fometimes Angle, fometimes double —forming a plexus in the external cavity of the calcaneum, or os calcis, and apaftomofing fre- quently with the anterior tibial branches, S. A Branch— as the artery runs to the external fide of the calcaneum, forming, under the liga- ment that unites the tibia and fibula, a new communication with the poferior tibial, and, by twigs fent outwards, with the external malleolar. i. Branches to the peroneal tendons and (heaths, forming a plexus with the anterior fbular when prefent. L J. BranchesBRANCHES FROM TIIE Seel. II. K. Branches—reaching, in the finuofity of the os calcis, to the fore part of this bone, and inofeu* lating with fimilar branches of the pojlerior ti- bia!' (fee L), at the fame time giving out others, thinly ramified on the bone, and terminating, by many minute twigs, on the fat and lkin. ». Branches to the abduftor of the little toe, en- tering, like the terminating trunk, into a re- markable, and almott conftant, inofculation with the external plantar. h. The interior Fibular—often wanting—when prefent, pafles through the interftice of the cru- ral bones, running, downwards and forwards, in the angle between the extremities of the tibia and fibula, behind the extenfor pollicis and the fliort peroneus, where it inofculates with the external malleolar ; and then proceeding, under the tendon of the peroneus, to the os cuboides, where it lies concealed between this bone and the abduftor mufcle, inofculates partly with the external plantar, and partly terminates on the lkin. From this arife, a. A Branch—running upwards to the fibula and periofteum of the tibia. p.‘ Branches—interwoven, in the neighbourhood of the external malleolus and peroneal tendons, with the former artery. y. A Tranfverfe Annjlomotic Branch — forming, be- hind the extenfors, and on the periofteum, a re- markable inofculation with the anterior tibial% fending alfo twigs to the capfule and tendons, j. A Branch —finking into the capfule of the joint, after inofculating with various metatarfal branches, i. Many Branches— fcattered among the ligamen- tous fheaths of the peroneal mufcles, and inof- culating, in many places, at the exterior fide of the calcaneum, with the pofieriorfibular. S. Branche,Sea. IL 163 DESCENDING AORTA, i. Branches—inofcnlating with the tranfverfe tar- ful, on the furface of the os cuboides, and there contributing to the formation of the tarfal arch, n. Branches to the abdu&or of the little toe, often terminating the trunk, or fent off, near the union of the trunk, with tht plantar. G, Numerous branches—diftributed, in the courfe of the artery, to the adjoining flexor mufcles, tibialis pollicus, foleus, tendo Achil- lis, nerve, and fkin. H, Transverse branches—often double—anaf- tomofing, as already noticed, with the pofterior fthular. I, A branch—forming a plexus, at the epiphyfis of the tibia and its malleolus, upon the perio- Ileum, with fome fuperior branches of the po~ Jlerior tibial and internal malleolar, and fending fometimes twigs to the capfule of the joint. K. Branches to the flexor tendons and their Iheaths. L. Two large branches—ifluing from the trunk as it runs along the lateral concavity of the heel, at the tuberofity of the calcaneum, fpread- ing out upon its periofleum and aponeurofis, as alfo upon the abductor pollicis and Ikin ; and inofculating with branches of the Jibular. M. A deep branch—palling, under the tendons, to the capfule of the aftragalus and calcaneum, and the bones. N. Another deep branch—running out to the other adjoining bones and their ligaments, and to the articulation of the tibia and aftragalus. L 2 O.164 branches from the Sell. II. O. The external plantar—the larger branch of the pojlerior tibial—palling, gradually outwards and forwards, between the Ihort flexor of the toes and the majfa carnea; or, under this mufcle, to the inner edge of the abdudtor of the little toe. As it proceeds to the bafe of the metatarfal bone of the little toe, between the flexor bre- vis and abdu&or, it runs gradually inwards to the great toe, with alternate flexions; and, palling over the interofieous mufcles, forms the plantar arch ; which, at laft, is wholly recei- ved by the anterior tibial, in the firlt interftice of the metatarfal bones, under the addu&or pollicis. Its branches are, a. A Tranfverfe Anaftomotic Branch—running out- wards upon the naked bone, along the anterior tuberolity of the os calcis, and forming a large inofculation with branches of the anterior ti- bial, at the inner fide of the tuberofity, and with the pojlerior Jibular at the outer fide; con- ftituting, at the fame time, a vafcular plexus, from which many branches are fent to the bone, flexor brevis, aponeurofis, and fkin. b. Branches to the large ligament of the calcaneum. c. Many Branches—while the trunk runs above or below the mafia carnea, and pafles, expofed, be- tween the flexor and abdu&or minimus, fent to this mufcle and the flexor brevis, and thro* this, or near its external margin, liberally diftri- buted to the aponeurofis and flcin. d. The Firjl Deep Branch, or Fir/l Profunda—run- ning to the abdudor and flexor of the little toe, and uniting with the pojlerior Jibular on the external and lateral part of the calcaneum, and withSett. II. DESCENDING AORTA* l6$ with the deep branch of the internal plantar upon the furface of the calcaneum on the in- ternal fide of the fame bone. e. The Second Deep Branch, or Second Profunda— rifing at the termination of the os cuboides; and, while it obferves the fame courfe outwards as the laft, forming fimilar and new inofcula- tions with the anterior fibular and tranfverjc tarfal. It alfo contributes to the plexus that is fpread out in the cavity of the foot, and among the ligaments of the tarfal bones. f. Branches—fent to the abdu&or of the little toe, and the periofteum of the adjoining bones ; fpreading varioiifly among the bones, and inof- culating with the neighbouring ramuli. g. The Plant a-digital^ or External Plantar of the Little Toe—ifiuing from the trunk as it touches the bafe of the fifth metatarfal bone, and begins the formation of the arch. While it accompa- nies this bone forwards, covered by the flexor and addu&of of the little toe, it diftributes branches to thefe mufcles and fkin. At the other extremity of this fifth metatarfal bone, it receives a tranfverfe twig from the external plantary or the adjoining digitaly then paffes over the inferior or plantar furface of the bone, and, on the outer or fibular fide, reaches the apex of the little toe. h. The Second Planta-digitaly—rifing in the fourth interftice of the metatarfal bones, above the in- terofiei, at the bafis of the toes, and, while there* covered by the tranfverfe mufcle, dividing into the digito-tibial, or internal plantar, of the little toe, and the digito-fibulary or external plantar of the fourth toe.—Sending out, La *. NumerousBRANCHES FROM THE 166 Sett. IL a. Numerous Branches to the (kin. t>. Branches to the abdu&or of the little toe. y. Branches—anaftomofing with theplanta metatar- fal and others uniting with the metatarfals. i. The Third Planta-digital—running between the third and fourth metatarfal bones, and giving origin to the digito-tibial of the fourth toe, and the digitofbular of the third. From this arife, a. Branches—uniting with the external branch of the internal .plantar at f. t. Small and Superficial Branches to the adjoining lumbricals and tranfverfe mulcle. y. yInterior Perforants—difperfed in this third in- interftice to the capfules of the joints. k. The Fourth Planta-digital—running between the fecond' and third metatarfal bones, and giving rife to the digito-tibial of the third tot, and the digito-Jibular of the fecond. From this branches iffue, fimilar to thofe at i. Between thefe digitals, two or three deep in- terojjeals, or plant a-metatarfals, and four per- for anti, iffue from th t plantar arch, whofe di- rection, though very irregular, deferves to be noticed. /. A Planta-metatarfal, or Deep Interojfeal Branch —rifing near the plant a-digital of the little toe, and running between the fixth and feventh in- terofleoUs mufcles. After fending off many ra- muli to the adjoining mufcles, it inofculates with the dorjal or anterior perforant * of the dorjo- * Profeffor Murray calls thofe perforants which run from the dor- fum to the planta, anterior perforants ; and thofe which run from the planta to the dorfum, pojleriorperforants.—Translator.