IS V-i22101425392Med K9061' *. « ■ •w ‘ •.V-- w jffdie j0cu) cooKerr x=>aoK0 I The Soup and Sauce BookTHE NEW COOKERY BOOKS. By ELIZABETH DOUGLAS. Fcap. 8vo, cloth as. each. I. THE SOUP AND SAUCE BOOK. II. THE CAKE AND BISCUIT BOOK. III. THE PASTRY AND SWEET BOOK. London: GRANT RICHARDS.The and Sauce Book By Elizabeth Douglas London Grant Richards Leicester SquareWELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. - hid. 1Preface The Eiiglisli—to tlieir loss—are not a soup- eating nation ; and for the most part, those of us tluit do eare for soups are obstinately con- servative in our tastes. The ordinary restaurant thinks it has done its duty when ox-tail, mock- turtle and tomato soup have been inehided in the bill of fare. Yet the range of soups is very wide, as the hundred pages of reei})cs (by no means exhaustive) that follow will show ; and that they may lead some readers to add to the elasticity of the domestic menu, is the ambition of the eomi)iler. All arc good, few are expen- sive, and none exotic. I should like it to be understood also that the directions need not be considered absolutely final. Every recipe can be made the basis of mild cxperiinent, by slight differences in the ingredients or cpiantities. Two final remarks : soup never ought to be served in large quantities (onr tendency in England when we take it is to take too much); and in the preparation of it the first and last word is “simmer.” E. I). VDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b28054891Table of Contents Soups PAGES Stocks .... 7-11 Clear Soups • lG-22 Thick Soups • 24-33 Thickened Vegetable Soups made with Stock 35-40 Vegetable Soups made without Stock. 42-48 Soups thickened with a Liaison of Cream and Yolk of Egg • 51-58 Vegetable Purees • Gl-70 Meat Purees 73-7G Bisques .... 78-80 Fish Soups 82-85 Broths .... - 87-92 Broths and Soups for Invalids 95-101 Accessories 104-108Contents Sauces Hot Sauces for Fish . Hot Sauces for Roasts, Steaks, Cutlets, etc. . Hot Sauces for Fowls, Ducks, Ral)bits, etc. . Hot Sauces for Game, etc. Cold Sauces . . . . . Index PACKS 112-110 118-124 126-130 132-135 137-141 143-146 VlllA 1 General Remarks on Stock Stock is the basis of all soups, except those which tlie French call yoUtijen maigres, which have no meat in them. For clear soups the stock is a good consomme, which must be made absolutely clear, and without any fat. For thick white soups, chicken or veal stock is used. For brown thick soups, a dark stock. For purees, white or brown stock, according to their colour. Stock will keep for several days—in winter for a week. A tea-spoonfnl of Liebig’s Extract of Meat will greatly improve the flavour of a poor stock. Utensils.—Of special utensils for making soup, porcelain-lined sance-jmns are the most satis- factory, and should always be used if j)ossible. There is nothing so good or clean as the large French pot an feu, which can be bought in Soho. Earthenware sauce-pans are also good. It saves trouble when straining soup to have a large deep bo^vd or jar, and a colander or wire sieve which fits perfectly into it. AVooden or silver spoons should be used. The fire.—In making stock it is most im-The Soup and 2 portaiit to have a steady fire, which need not be interfered with, so tluit an even teinperature may be kept. Stock sliould be allowed to come slowly to the boil, and then be set back to simmer so gently that bubbles rise from one side only of the j)ot. To i)repare fresh meat for stock.—Look over the meat carefully. Cut away any part which is in the slightest degree tainted. Wipe the meat over Avith a clean cloth that has been dipped in cold water and Avrung out. Cut the meat off the bones. Cut it into small pieces. Break the bones. If there is any marroAA", take it out and spread it on the bottom of the pot that is to be used. Vegetables.—In hot Aveatlier it is better to make stock Avithout vegetables, as they often turn it sour. See that all vegetables used are perfectly clean. Cut them in tAA'o or three pieces if to be used for flavouring stock. If they are to be served Avith the soup, cut them regularly and carefully to the size re(piired, and do not cook them in the soup for more than half-an-hour, or their flavour Avill be impaired. Vegetables should be added in the proportion of about one carrot, one onion (or leek), half a turnip, a ])iece of celery, to every (piart of stock. In the onion can be stuck a clove.Sauce Book 3 Herbs.—To flavour stock with herbs, it is best to use a bouquet {i.e. a small bunch of mixed herbs, a si)rig or leaf eaeh of sage, thyme, marjoram bay and parsley). This eaii be easily taken out of the soui)s before serving. If ground herbs are used, add about a tea-spoonful of mixed herbs to every (piart of stoek. Seasoninq.—It is not necessary to season the original stock. In making it into different soups, the seasoning is of course a matter of taste; but, roughly si)eaking, to each quart may be put one small tea-s])oonfuI of salt, two pei)per-eorns, or half a salt-spoon of ground pepper, and one clove. To remove fat from stock.—particle of fat must be removed from the stock from which dear soups are to be made. With stock which is to be thickened it is not so necessary to be particular, as the flour used for the purpose will absorb a good deal of fat. With broths, which should bc^particularly nourishing, it is merely a matter of taste how much fat is removed. To remove hit from stoek it is best to let it first become quite cold. The fat will then become quite ^solid, and can easily be removed with a knife.'" To' remove the small particles which may still be left, dip a cloth in hot water, wring it out, and pass it over the stock. It will absorb all the fat.rhe Soup and 4 If there is not time to allow the stock to cool first, a great deal of fat can be absorbed l)y tissue paper, which should be laid over it. Or it can be strained two or three times through cloths which have been put in very cold water and wrung out. To clctrifu stock f07' deal' soups.—The addition of a little cold water to boiling stock will cause the scum to rise quickly. This can be done several times, and if thoroughly strained the stock should be clear. To clarify soup more effectually, although the flavour is not improved by doing so, the white and shell of an egg are used. To every quart of stock (and it must be cold) add the Avhite and broken shell of an egg. Beat together. Put in the pot, stir continually until hot. Then let it boil, untouched, for about ten minutes. Set back on the oven, throw in half a cup of cold water, and allow it to stand lor ten minutes. Place a colander over the bowl, and when you are ready to strain the soup, put over the colander a napkin which has been dipped in very hot water and then wrung out. Let it drain through slowly, without any pressure, shifting the napkin gently if any part becomes clogged. Strai7iin(j.—\i is well, as I have said, to have a large, deep bowl, with a colander or strainer that fits^tightlv into it. Put a napkin or muslin overSauce Book tlie colander, and take tlie soup out of the sauce- pan with a cup or ladle. Let it drain about a quarter of an hour without any pressure. The napkins and muslin used for straining may be old, but must be fine and absolutely clean and sweet.Stocks I’agk Brown Soup Stock .... 7 Common Stock . .... 7 Clear Brown Stock .... 8 Consomme ...... 9 Cliicken Stock ..... 9 Veal Stock ...... 10 Economical Stock ..... 10 ()7 Common Stock 1 lb. shin of beef 1 quart cold water Two 01’ three vegetables Cut tlic meat up into small pieces. Put it in a sauee-pau, and add the water. Allow it to stand for half-aii-honr. Then put it on the tire. Let it come to the boil slowly. Simmer for two hours. Strain. Brown Soup Stock .3 lbs. shin of beef 1 lb. bones 3 quarts cold water 2 carrots, 1 turnip 2 stalks of celery 3 onions 3 cloves Bouquet of herbs Cut the meat into small pieces. Break the bones. Put three ounces of butter in a sauce-pan. When melted, add to it one-third of the meat and the onions sliced. Stew ofcntlv until a rich brown. o 4/ Put with the rest of the meat, bones, etc., in allie Soup and sauce-pan. Cover witli water. Bring to the boil. Simmer four liours. Strain. Clear Brown Stock 2 lbs. shin of beef 1 lb. knuckle of veal The carcase and bones of a fowl 3 pints of water 1 carrot 1 onion with a clove stuck in it 1 stick of celery 1 piece of i^arsley A small bouquet of herbs Put the bones at the bottom of a sauce-pan. Place the meat, wliicli should be cut up in small pieces, upon them. Cover with cold water. Leave the sauce-pan uncovered. lb*ing to the boil very slowly. When it boils throw in a half eup of cold water. (This will cause the scum to rise.) Skim. Ib'ing to the boil again. Throw in a little more cold water. Skim. Bring to the boil. Add the vegetables. Set back on the fire, and allow it to simmer gently for three or four hours. Strain through a napkin into a bowl and allow it to cool. B* required the soup can be further clarified (p. 4). dSauce Book 9 Consomme 1 lb. shin of beef 1 lb. veal The bones and carcases of fowls or game 2 quarts of stock Vegetables The white of an egg Cut away all fat from the meat. Chop it up finely. Put the white of an egg in a basin. Add to it the chopped meat. Mix them well together with a silver spoon. Stir in a glass of cold water. Put the meat into a large sauce-pan. Add vegetables, the bones and carcases of birds. Cover with two quarts of good stock. Bring to the boil, stirring occasionally to prevent the meat from sticking to the sancc-pan. When it boils, set back to simmer gently for three hours. Dip a napkin in hot water, wring it out, and strain the stock through it into a basin. Chicken Stock 1 old fowl 1 epiart water 1 carrot 1 stick of celery 1 small onion Put the fowl and vegetables into a stew-pan, adding the bones or carcase of another fowl ifThe Soup and 10 possible. Cover witli eold water, or weak elear stoek. Let it boil up slowly and simmer for three hours. Skim. Ikiss the stock through a napkin, and set aside to cool. Veal Stock 1 11). knuckle of veal Chicken hones or carcases 1 quart of water Vegetables 1 blade of mace 1 clove Cut up the veal. Break the bones. Add vegetables and spice. Cover with the water. Bring slowly to the boil. Simmer for two or three hours. Strain. Economical Stock for thick Soups, Purees, etc. An excellent although not very clear stock can he made from odds and ends of cooked meat and hones. For this ])urposc there should be an enamelled pot with a lightly fitting lid, and it should practically he kept in use continually.Sauce Book 11 Spread tlic bottom of tlic pot with butter, or marrow. Pack in pieces of meat, bone, gristle, the carcases of birds, two or three vegetables cut up in small pieces, two cloves, and a boucpiet of herbs. Cover the meat, etc., with cold water. Put on the lid. Heat slowly, and when it boils set back to simmer for four or live hours. Tn preparing meat for this stock, look it over carefully ; reject any piece which is not perfectly good, also all stuffing, skin, smoked or burnt pieces. A little beef bit can always be retained, but mutton bit should not be used as it is rank in flavour. Scrape the meat off the bones, and break the bones in small pieces. A slice or two of lean ham, the gravy saved from any kind of roast, a little fresh meat finely chopped will greatly improve this stock.12 General Remarks on Soups Utensils and Fire.—The remarks on pages 1 and 2 concerning tlie utensils and fire for making stock, apply also to the preparation of soups from stock. To thicken soups ivith flour only.—Mix flonr or cornflour with a little cold water, milk or stock until perfectly smooth. Add more water or milk. Strain. Ponr slowly into the soup, which should be nearly boiling. Let it come to a boil. Continue boiling for ten minutes (stirring all the time), or it will taste of Hour. About one table-spoon of flonr should be used to thicken each quart of stock. To thicken soups ivith butter and flour (r'oux).— Melt some butter. Skim it till quite clear. Pour it into an earthenware sancc-pan, and add to it its weight in flour. Work with a wooden s])oon until perfectly smooth. Stir over a fire for a few minutes. Then put it in a moderate oven. Stir occasionally, and be very particular that it docs not colour or burn. Tt slionld be left in the oven from thirty to forty-five minutes. This thicken- ing, which is called white ronx, is used for whiteSauce Book 13 soups. Hrowii roux for brown soups is made ill the same way, but is left in the oven until sli^litly coloured. It will keep for sonic time. When adding roux to soups it is best first to melt it in a small sauee-pan, to thin it with a little hot stock, and then to add it gradually to the soups. If the roux has not been prepared beforehand, the (piantity rcipiired can be made in a short time by cooking the Hour and butter together in a sauee-pan for five minutes for white roux or lomjcr for brown roux. It should be stirred all the time. A heaping tablespoon (or more) of roux should be added to every quart of soup to be thickened. Corujtoiir and roux.—The advantage of roux over cornflour is that the flour used in preparing the roux having been already cooked, it is not necessary to continue boiling the soups to which it is added, whereas cornfioiir being ra^v, the soups thickened by it must be boiled for some little time. To colour soirps.—The colour of soups can be deepened by using caramel colouring, or glaze (see next page) (which will also add to their flavour). Caramel colouriruj.—Put half a pound of broAvn or white sugar in an iron sauce-pan, with a table-spoonful of water. Stir over a very gentle fire until it turns a deep, rich brown colour. Add14 Soup and Sauce Book half a pint of boiling water. Let it simmer very gently for twenty minutes. Allow it to get cold. Put it into bottles and corh. This makes an excellent and tasteless colouring, but it must be carefully made. The rich brown colour comes from slow and gentle cooking. If it is burnt and black it is useless. Add to the soup a few minutes only before serving. Glaze.—Glaze is made by boiling down good stock until it is of a very thick and gluey con- sistency. Put a (piart of rich stock into a sauce- pan over a good lire. Leave it uncovered, and boil it until it is reduced to half a pint. Let it cool. Put it in a jar or bottle. Cover closely, and keep in a cool place. This will keep for two or three weeks. Adding vegetables and, meat to soups.—When- ever vegetables or meats have to be }>assed through a sieve or tammy, it will be found easier to do so if the pulp is kept continually well moistened with stock or milk (according to the soup which is being made). Wine and catsup.—Wine and catsup should always be added as late as possible, as they lose in tlavour by being boiled.15 Clear Soups l*Ar.R Hrutioise . . . . . .1(5 ('onsonime with eggs . . . 1(> Crofttc* Jiu pot . . . . .17 „ „ gratiiice , . . IS (hiiiie Soup . . . . . .18 Imperial Soup . . . . . li) •Julienne ...... :J() Macamni ......:>() Spring Soup . . . . .21 Vermicelli ..... 22 Clear Soups with tiuenelles . . .22 iBrunoise 3 })iuts strong' consomuit* 1 carrot 1 turni}) 1 leek 1 onion 1 stick of celery 1 small tea-cupful freshly cooked peas „ „ „ „ asparagus points ,, ,, ,, „ French beans Cut the caiTot, turnip, lock, onion and celery into small dice-shaped pieces, using the I’ed outer part of the carrot only. F>y them in butter until a light brown. Add them to the consomme, and after it has come to the boil, simmer gently until the vegetables are perfectly tender. Skim from time to time. Season. Add the cooked peas, beans and asi)aragus ])oints. The beans should be cut into diamond-shaped pieees. Consomme with poached eggs 6 eggs 1 quart consomme Break the eggs carefully into boiling water, taking care that they do not run into each other. IGSauce Book 17 B Cook until firmly set, but not hard. Take them out, put them on a dish, and trim neatly. Put them in a soup tureen and gently pour over them the hot cousomnn^. Finely chopped and cooked vegetables may be added to the consomme. Croute au pot 1 quart clear brown stock j of a white cabbage 1 carrot 5 a turnip A little celery 2 thin slices of bread Cut the celery, carrot and turnip into small equal pieces. Cut up the heart of the cabbage, and cook separately in salted water. Put the vegetables in a sauce-pan. Pour the stock over them. Simmer until tender. Add the cabbage. Season. Simmer for a few minutes. Toast the bread. Cut it into several pieces. Put them in a soup tureen. Pour the vegetables and stock over them. Serve. Grated parmesan can be served with this soup.The Soup and Croute au pot gratinee 1 quai t clear brown stock 1 tea-cup of mixed cooked vegetables cut in small pieces 4 small dinnei’ rolls Take out the crumb from the inside of three or four rolls. Put the crusts in au earthenware sauce-pan, and cover with a little clear brown stock. Let tlicm simmer over a gentle fire until they have absorbed all the stock. Then put them in the oven until they are crisp, being very careful that they do not burn. Place them in a soup tureen with the cooked vegetables. Pour the well-seasoned boiling stock over them. Game Soup 1 calf’s foot 1 or 2 birds (game), or the carcases and bones of several 1 slice lean ham 2 carrots 1 onion 1 piece of celery 1 sprig parsley 1 bay leaf Thyme 2 cloves 1 blade of mace 2 quarts of water 1 glass of sherry Clean and cut up the calf’s foot. Put iu a stew-pan with one or two whole birds (game), or IdSauce Book 19 tlic carcases and bones of several, a small piece of lean ham, the vegetables, herbs, etc. Cover with 2 quarts of water. Bring to the boil. Skim. Simmer for three hours. Season. Strain. When cold clarify with white of egg (p. 4). Before serving add a glass of sherry, and two dozen small quenelles of game (p. 10.5). 1 quart clear consomme For C^l^itard 1 gill consomme 4 yolks of eggs Nutmeg Beat the yolks in a basin. Add a little salt and nutmeg. Stir in the consomm6. Strain through a fine hair sieve into a shallow plain mould. Put it into a pan of boiling water, and steam until it sets. Turn out carefully on to a wet napkin. Cut into fancy or square shapes. Half of the mixture can, if wished, be coloured green with spinach colouring (p. 104). Place the custards carefully in a tureen, and pour the hot consomme over them. SaltThe Soup and 20 Julienne 2 Lii’ge carrots 1 turnip 1 i:)iece of celery 1 small onion j white cabbage 1 lettuce A little sorrel 1 quart consomme 2 ozs. butter Cut all the vegetables into thin shreds of equal length (about one inch). Use the red outer part of the carrots only, and the hearts of the lettuce and cabbage. Wash the sorrel and cabbage separately, and set aside. Put two ounces of butter and a salt-spoon of powdered sugar in a sauce-pan, add to it all the vegetables except the cabbage and sorrel. Ijet them turn a fine yellow, but be careful not to burn. Add the consomme. Bring to the boil. Drain. Season. Set back to simmer until the vegetables are tender. Then add the cabbage and sorrel, a leaf of tarragon and chervil. Simmer another ten minutes and serve. Macaroni Soup 1 quart stock I pint macaroni Cook the macaroni in boiling salted water half- an-hour. Drain. Pour cold water through the OSauce Book 21 macaroni to prevent its sticking together. Put the sticks on a board and cut it, cither very finely to make rings, or in half-incli pieces. Bring stock to the boil. Add the macaroni. Season. 2 caiTots I tumi]) 5 a head of celery 10 small onions 1 tea-cup of cauliflower cut into little branches Heart of a small white cabbage-lettuce A small handful of sorrel A leaf of chervil and of tarragon ^ pint peas I pint asparagus points 4 pint crohtons 1 quart consomme Cut the carrots and turnip into small rounds or olive-shaped pieces. Add them, with the chopped up celery, whole onions and cauli- flower, to a quart of consomme or chicken stock. Bring it to the boil. Simmer for half-an-hour. Stamp the sorrel and lettuce into small round pieces. Add them, with a leaf of chervil and of tarragon and a tea-spoon of sugar, to the soup. When all the vegetables arc tender add a quarter of a pint of young peas and the same quantity of asparagus heads both freshly cooked. Serve wdth crofitons (see p. KKf).22 Soup and Sauce Book Vermicelli I 11). vei’inicelli 1 quart consomme Break up tlic vermicelli in small pieces. Put it ill cold water. Bring it to the boil, and boil it for four minutes. Drain it. Pour cold water through it. Put it in a sauce-pan with the con- somme, which should be very clear, strong and well seasoned. Let it boil uji. Skim. Simmer until the vermicelli is tender. Serve with grated parmesan in a separate dish. Other Clear Soups Clear sou[)s can also be served with Italian paste, forcemeat balls, (pienelles, rice, etc. For recipes for these see pages 103-1 OB.Thick Soups 1‘AGK ]>ro\vn Soup . • • • .24 Cream of Pearl Barley .... 25 Cream of Bice . . • • .25 Giblet Soup . • • • .26 Hare Soup ...... 27 Left-over Soup . . • • .28 Mock-Turtle 29 Mulligatawny . . . ■ .30 Ox-tail . . . . • .31 Venison Soup . . • • .3324 Brown Soup The water in whicli a joint of mutton has been boiled 1 carrot 1 onion 1 turnip 1 head of celery -h pint cooked young peas Brown roux 1 ounce of butter 1 tea-spoonful Liebig’s Ex- tract of Meat 1 lump sugar Boil down the water to one quart. Allow it to cool. Remove the fat carefully. Cut the vegetables into small equal pieces. Fry them a rich brown in one ounce of butter. Put the stock on the fire again. Add the vegetables and sugar. Simmer until they are tender. Add the peas. Simmer for quarter of an hour. Thicken with brown roux (see p. 12). Simmer another fifteen minutes. A few minutes before serving add a little caramel colouring (see p. 13) and the Liebig’s Extract.Sauce Book 25 Cream of Pearl Barley i lb. pearl bai’ley 1 quart chicken stock 1 gill cream Wash the barley thoroughly. Throw it into boiling water and let it boil quickly for ten minutes. Drain it. Pour cold water through it to separate the barley. Put the stock in a sauce-pan. Add the barley to it. Simmer for four hours—or until the barley is very tender. Set aside a little of the barley to add whole to the stock. Put the rest through a tammy. Add it to the stock with the whole barley. Season. Scald a gill of cream. Add to the soup. If preferred the barley may be cooked separately in water. Cream of Rice 4 11). Carolina rice 1 quart chicken stock 1 gill cream 1 tea-spoon of butter Wash the rice and boil it several minutes in water. Drain. Add it to the stock. Simmer"I'he Soup and until the rice is tender. Rub tlirough a tarnniy. Just before serving mix with the soup a gill of cream and a tea-spoonful of butter. A little whole rice which has been boiled in chicken broth can be added to the soup, or it can be served with a dozen small quenelles of chicken (see p. 105). Giblet Soup 1 set of giblets 1 whole onion 1 chopped onion Grated rind of the tliird of a lemon A few drops of lemon juice 1 oz. butter 1 table-spoon flour 1 glass white wine Small bouquet of herbs 2 cloves 1 quart of stock Scald and cut in pieces a set of giblets. Put in a sauce-pan witli a quart of good stock, a whole onion stuck with two cloves and the lemon rind. Simmer until the giblets are very tender. Strain oft’ the stock. Make a brown roux of the butter and ftour (sec p. 12). Add it to the stock with the herbs and an onion chopped fine. Roil hard for ten minutes. Strain 20Sauce Book 27 tliroiigli ;i fine sieve. Add a glass of wliite wine. Season with cayenne, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Hare Soup A large fresh hare 2 onions 1 carrot 2 pieces of celery Bouquet of herbs 4 doves 4 pepper-corns Cayenne 1 glass of port 2 quarts of cold water Cut a perfectly fresh hare into pieces, being careful to save all the blood. Let the pieces soak in two quarts of cold water in a stew-pan for an hour. Add the blood, and set on the fire. Bring to the boil, stirring and skimming frequently. Add the vegetables, herbs, spices and pepper-eorns. Simmer gently for two or three hours. Strain off the liquid. Cut the meat from the bones. Set aside some of the best to be cut into small pieces. Pound the rest in a mortar and put through a tammy (sec p. (50). Beturn to the sauce-pan with the stock. When it boils season highly, add a glass of portThe Soup and wine, and the small pieces of liare which have been reserved. Serve. Forcemeat balls (see p. 104) may be added also. Left-over Soup P)Oiies and trimmings of a 6 lb. roast of beef 1 mutton chop 4 lb. fresli gravy beef 2 quarts cold water 2 cloves 2 pe])per-corns ] baked ap]:>le ^ cup of cold boiled onions 2 pieces of celery Bouquet of herbs 1 cup cooked tomato, or 1 cup boiled macaroni Cut up the meat. Break the bones. Put in a stew-pan with the cold water, vegetables, spices and a])ple. Bring to the boil. Simmer for two or three hours. Strain. Set aside to cool. Remove fat. When required heat to boiling point. Season. Add the tomato or macarom.Sauce Book 29 Mock-Turtle 1 calf’s head 1 old fowl (partly roasted) 1 knuckle of veal 3 slices raw ham 2 quarts of stock Carrots, celery, green onions 5 lb. mushrooms 4 shallots A large bouquet of parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, sweet basil and marjoram 8 cloves 2 blades of mace i pint sherry Tea-sf)oonful lemon juice White roux Scald a calf’s liead. Bone it. (Do this by making a sliarp incision down to the bone from the back of the liead to the nose and peeling back the flesh on each side with a knife.) Put the head in a sauce-pan. Cover it with cold water. Boil it for quarter of an hour, skimming from time to time. Then take it out and put it in a basin full of cold water. Butter the bottom of a large stock-])ot. Put in it an old fowl partly roasted (of which the lireast is kept back for forcemeat balls), a knuckle of veal, the ham, and two quarts of good stock. Boil (piickly until the stock is reduced to one pint. Set back to simmer gently for half-an-hour. Fill up the stock-pot with water. Take the head out of the water. Pare away any rough parts in the mouth. Put in theThe Soup and stock-pot. Bring to the boil. Skim thoroughly. Add the vegetables, spices and bouquet. Simmer gently until the head is tender. Remove the head. Strain the broth. When the meat is cool cut it up into small squares (reserving a little for forcemeat balls). Thicken the stock with light-coloured roiix (p. 12). Let it boil up. Skim off the butter that comes to the surface. Add half a pint of sherry. Season with cayenne. Add a tea-spoon- ful of lemon juice, and the pieces of calf’s head. Boil ten minutes. Add two or three dozen force- meat balls (see p. 104). Mulligatawny 2 chickens (or 2 rabbits) 2 quarts veal stock 2 carrots 4 onions 1 head of celery and 2 pieces of celei-y A bouquet of liei’bs and parsley 2 table-spoons flour 1 table-spoon curry powder 1 „ „ paste 4 lb. Patna rice f lb. butter Cut up the chickens or rabbits into small pieces. Put them in a sauce-pan with a quart of good veal stock and a carrot, turnip, apple, parsley, and a bouquet of herbs. Bring to the boil and simmer gently until the meat is tender, stirring :i()Sauce Book from time to time. Strain off tlie stock. Cut the meat from tiie bones, and set aside to cool. Fry tl irce onions, a carrot, and a head of celery (all ffnely sliced) very slowly in a quarter of a Ijound of butter until they are a rich golden brown. Add two table-spoons of Hour. Stir in till smooth. Add a table-spoon of curry powder, and the same quantity of curry paste. Season with cayenne and salt. Add the vegetables to the stock, and add more veal stock if required. Let it boil up. Skim. Simmer half-an-hour very gently. Put through a tammy. Pour over the meat of the chickens or rabbits (which should be cut into neat pieces). Heat gently, and simmer for another ten minutes. If desired half a pint ot scalded cream can be added just before serving. Serve with plain boiled Patna rice (see p. 106). Ox-teiil Soup 1 ox tail 2 quarts water or stock 1 onion 2 carrots 2 ozs. l)utter 1 head of celery 2 cloves 2 pepper-coi'Tis Pdade of mace A lump of sugar 5 a pint of mixed parboiled vegetables A\ ash the ox tail and cut it up into joints. Lay these in cold water for two hours. Slice fflThe Soup and 3'2 finely a large onion and two carrots. Melt two ounces of butter in a sauce-pan and fry the onion and carrots in it. When they are slightly browned add the ox tail. Brown it a little. Put the vegetables and ox tail in a stock-pot. Add the celery finely cut up. Cover with two quarts of water or beef stock. Add the spice and seasoning. Bring to the boil. Skim thoroughly. Simmer until the meat separates from the bone and the gristle is quite soft. Strain through a napkin. Cut the best of the meat into pieces. Put them into a stew-pan. Add the strained stock, half a pint of mixed parboiled vegetables cut in small rounds, or olive-shaped, a lump of sugar and more pepper if required. Heat and simmer until vegetables are tender. The vegetables should be shaped with a vegetable cutter, and are best parboiled in a little stock. Ox-tail soup may be thickened by a puree of carrots, turnips, peas or lentils. The pur6e is made by boiling whichever vegetable is required until very tender, and pressing it through a sieve or tammy. Add it to the strained stock and mix well.Sauce Book 33 c Venison Soup 1-0- lbs. \ enison 5 lb. salt pork or raw ham ] onion h a head of celery 1 blade of mace 6 pepper-corns Brown ronx 1 table-spoon Worcester sauce 1 „ Mushi-oom ketchup 1 glass Madeira or brown sherry Cut up tlie meat and vegetables. Put them iu a stew-pan. Add just enough water to cover them. Stew them slowly, with the lid on, for an hour. Add nearly a quart of boiling water, the mace and pepper-corns. Simmer for two hours. Strain. Season. Thicken with brown roux (one table- spoon butter, one table-spoon flour, see p. 12). Add the ^Vorcester sauce, mushroom ketchup, and wine.34 Thickened Vegetable Soups made with Stock Artichoke Soup Asparagus Soup Cauliflower Soup Celery Soup Chestnut Soup Green Pea Soup Mushroom Soup l^olish Soup Tomato Soup PAGE 35 35 30 36 37 37 38 39 3!)35 Artichoke Soup 4 artichokes 2 ozs. butter 1 quart wliite stock 1 cup cream or milk 1 tea-spoon sugar A\ash and peel the artichokes. Cut tliem in slices. Put the butter in a saiice-pan. Melt it. Add the artichokes. Allow them to simmer until tender, but be careful not to let them brown. Add the boiling stock and a tea-spoon of sugar. Simmer for halt-an-honr. Rub through a tammy. Heat again. Season. At the last minute add a cup of boiling cream or milk. Asparagus Soup 1 lb. veal 1 quart water 1 large bundle of asparagus 1 table-spoon flour 1 gill of cream Cut off the stalks of the asparagus. Put them in a stew-pan with the veal (which should be cut up) and water. Bring to the boil. Skim. Simmer lor three hours. Strain off the broth. Add theThe Soup and asparagus heads. Season. Boil for twenty ininntes. Thicken with a table-spoon of corn-flour rubbed smooth in a gill of cream. Boil for ten minutes. Serve with croutons (see p. 103). Boil the milk or cream with the onion. Heat the stock. Rub half of the cauliflower through a sieve. Add it to the stock. Add the boiling milk (which has been strained off the onions). Season. Add table-spoonful butter in small pieces, and the rest of the cauliflower cut in small branches. If wished the soup can be slightly thickened with a table-spoon of white roux. (Sec p. 12). Put three heads of celery into the stock, and boil until very tender. Strain off the soup, and Cauliflower Soup 1 tal)le-spoon chopped onion 1 quai-t white stock 1 pint milk or cream 1 boiled cauliflower 1 quart white stock 4 heads of celery 2 table-spoons white roux 1 gill cream 30Sauce Book 37 return to the sauce-paii. Add tlie fourtli bead of celfc'iT tinelj cut. Simmer till tender. Thicken with the white ronx. Scald a gill of cream and add to the soup. Season and serve. Chestnut Soup 2 lbs. chestnuts 1 pint consomme 1 i)int cream Boil the chestmits until tender. Remove shells and peel them whole. Save ten whole, rub all the rest through a fine sieve. Heat the consomme. Scald the cream. Mix together. Season with salt and pepper. Add the chestnuts. Stir until well mixed, but do not allow the soup to boil. Just before serving cut up the ten chestnuts into small pieces and add to the soup. Green Pea Soup 1 quart water 1 lb. shin of beef 1 quart young green peas 1 table-spoon flour 1 sprig of mint Wash and boil the empty pea-pods, with a piece of mint, in a (piart of salted water for anThe Soup and 38 hour. Skim. Strain off tlie pods. Add tliein to the meat (cut in small pieces) in a sauce-paii. Simmer gently for an liour-and-a-half. Strain off the stock. Season. Add the shelled peas to it. I^oil gently for twenty minutes. Add the flour mixed smooth with a little of the stock, and the parsley. Boil for ten minutes. Mushroom Soup 1 lb. fresh small mushrooms 1 i)int rich milk or cream 1 pint consomme 1 table-spoon flour 1 table-spoon butter Set aside twelve mushrooms. Cut them in half. Cook separately. Chop the rest into small pieces and fry in the butter, adding a table- spoonful of flour and mixing until perfectly smooth. Put in a stew-pan and add the scalded milk or cream, and the boiling consomme. Simmer for (piarter of an hour. Season. Ifnb through a sieve. Strain through muslin. Heat again very gently. Add the cooked mushrooms, and do not allow it to boil.Sauce Book 39 Polish Soup 1 beet-root 2 onions 1 quart brown stock 1 glass red wine 1 cup tliick cream Cut up the beet-root and onions in small pieces. Put them in a sauce-pan, and 2)Oiir over them the stock, which should be very rich and of a good dark colour. Bring to a boil and simmer for an honr-and-a-half. Put through a tammy. Put back on the fire, add the wine. Season with salt, pepper and cayenne. Heat well, but do not allow it to boil. Just before serving add the cream, which should be scalded. Or the cream may be served separately, in which case it should be cold. 1 quart of stock 1 tea-spoonful sugar 3 a tin of tomatoes i onion 1 tea-spoonful butter Slice the onion. Frv it in the butter. Add it to the tomatoes. Heat them in a sauce-pan, and Tomato40 Soup and Sauce Book allow them to simmer for fifteen minutes. Rub tlirou"li a sieve. Put to the stock. Season and add a lump of sugar. Heat. Serve with croiltons.Vegetable Soups made without Stock PAGE Artichoke Soup . • • • .42 Carrot Soup ..... 42 Celery Cream . • • • .43 Mock Risque ..... 44 Portuguese Soup . . • • .44 Potato Cream . . • • .45 Potato Soup . . . . .46 Sorrel Soup . . • • .46 Summer Soup . .... 47 Tomato Soup . . . • .47 -1142 Artichoke Soup 4 artichokes 1 ])int water 1 pint milk 1 onion Boil tlie artichokes in a pint of water. Mash them. Press tliein tliroiigli a sieve, and mix them again with the water in wliieli they were boiled. Boil an onion in the milk. Remove the onion. Add the milk to the artichokes. Bring to the boil. Season. Serve with croutons (sec p. 103). Carrot Soup 3 large carrots 1 onion 1 quart cold water 2 ozs. of butter T> a pint milk or cream 1 table-spoon flour 1 tea-spoon powdered sugar Scrape the carrots and slice them finely, reject- ing the hard yellow inside. Put them in aSauce Book 43 sauce-pun witli a quart of cold water. Simmer gently for three quarters of an hour. Slice the onion, and fry it a light brown in the butter. Add it to the carrots, and put all through a fine sieve. Put the puree into a sauce-pan with the water in which the carrots were cooked. Thicken with the hour. Stir eontinually. Allow it to boil for hve minutes. Season. Add a tea-spoon- ful powdered sugar. Just before serving add half a pint of scalded milk or cream. Celery Cream 1 head celery 1 pint water 1 pint milk or cream 1 table-spoon chop]jed onion 2 table-spoons white roux Wash the celery. Cut it into small pieces. Throw it into one pint boiling salted water. Boil till very tender. Put through a sieve, and return to the water in which it was cooked. Boil the milk with the onion. Strain. Add the milk to the celerv. Bring to the boil again. Stir in the white roux (p. 12). Season. Boil hve minutes. Strain into soup tureen.The Soup and Mock Bisque i tin of tomatoes 1 quart milk 2 ozs. butter 1 table-spoon white roux 5 salt-spoon carbonate of soda Stew the tomatoes until very soft. Add the carbonate of soda and sugar. Put through a fine sieve. Set in a small sauce-pan on the fire to keep hot. Heat the milk, thicken it with white roux (Hour and butter, see p. 12). Let it boil a few minutes, stirring continually. Season. Add the tomatoes and serve immediately. (The tomatoes should not be added until actually ready to serve.) Portuguese Soup 3 tomatoes 1 Spanish onion A small bunch of herbs 2 large slices of stale bread 1 oz. grated cheese (parmesan) 1 quart hot water 1 oz. butter Cut up the tomatoes and onions. Fry a light brown in butter. Put them in a stew-pan and -14Sauce Book 45 cover with a quart of hot water. Let it boil, and then stand aside to simmer for half-an-lioiir. Strain off the liquid. Rub the vegetables through a coarse sieve. Return to the fire, season, and make very hot. Break up the bread and put it in the bottom of a hot soup tureen. Sprinkle a little of the gi-ated cheese upon it. Pour the soup over it. Sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the soup. Potato Cream 1 pint milk 1 gill cream 2 potatoes 1 onion 1 teacup cooked French beans 1 dessert-spoonful chopped cooked carrot 1 tea-spoon Liebig’s extract 1 small table-spoon white roux Boil the potatoes and onion. Put them through a sieve. Add them to the milk, which should be boiling. Add the white roux (see p. 12), the Liebig (diluted with a little water) and seasoning. Stir for a minute or two Cut the French beans into small pieces. Add them and the very finely chopped carrot to the soup. Stir in the scalded cream.The Soup and Potato Soup 3 potatoes 1 quart milk 1 table-spoon cliopped onion A little celery or % a tea-spoon celery salt 1 table-spoon white roux 1 table-spoon chopped parsley Peel the potatoes. Soak them in cold water for half-an-hoiir. Cook them in boiling water until soft. Drain off the water. Put the potatoes through a sieve. Boil the milk with the onion and celery (or celery salt). Strain. Add to the potatoes. Stir in the white roux (see p. 12). Season. Boil for five minutes. Add the parsley. Sorrel Soup 1 handful of sorrel 1 pint of water 1 tea-cup cream or milk Bread Wash and prepare a handful of sorrel. Put it in a sauce-pan with the butter and a pint of water. Season. Boil gently for a quarter of an hour. Add a little cream or milk. Put several very thin slices of bread in the soup tureen, and pour the soup over them. nice or tapioca can be added to the soup. 4GSauce Book 47 Summer Soup 1 cucumber 2 cabbage lettuces 1 onion Small handful of si^inach A piece of mint A pint of shelled peas 2 ozs. butter A slice of ham Wash the lettuces and cut them up. Cut up the cucumber and onion. Put them with half a pint of peas, the mint, ham and butter into a stew-pan. Cover witli a little more than a quart of cold water. Bring to a boil, and then simmer gently for three hours. Strain off the liquid. Pass the vegetables through a sieve. Add to the liquid. Set on the fire again. Season. Add half a pint of green peas which have already been boiled. Tomato Soup 1 tin of tomatoes 1 pint boiling water 1 table-spoon sugar 4 cloves 2 pepper-corns 1 table-spoon butter 1 „ flour 1 „ chopped onion 1 „ „ parsley Put the tomatoes, water, sugar, cloves and pepper-corns in a porcelain-lined sauce-pot.48 Soup and Sauce Book Simmer for lialf-an-hour. Fry tlie onions and parsley in the butter, being careful not to burn. Add the Hour to them, mix smooth. x\dd them to the tomatoes. Simmer for ten minutes. Strain through a Hue sieve. Season. Serve with rice (see p. 106) or croutons (see p. 103).49 I) Soups thickened with a Liaison of Cream and Yolk of Egg PACK Brown Bread Soup .... 51 Cauliflower Cream. . . . .51 Cream of Bice . . . . .52 Cucumber Soup . . . . .52 Dutch Soup ..... 53 Flemish Soup ..... 53 Friar’s Chicken . . . . .54 Italian Macaroni Soup—I . . .54 Macaroni Soup—II .... 55 Bussian Soup . . . . . 5G Turkish Soup • • . . . 5G Water-cress Soup . . . . .57 White Chicken Soup .... 57 White Veal Soup ..... 58In thickening soiq^s with a liaison of cream (or milk) and yolk of egg, the eggs must first be well beaten, then tlie cream should be added to them and thoroughly mixed. AVlien this is done take a tea-enp of hot stock and mix it slowly with the liaison. Strain it all through a fine sieve or muslin, and add gradually to the soup, which must on no account be allowed to boil after the liaison is added, although it should be stirred over a "entle fire until it thickens. In thickening soup with eggs only, beat the required number of eggs, add a little warm stock to them. Strain, and add gradually to the soup.51 Brown Bread Soup 1 quart stock 4 or 5 small slices of brown bread 2 head of celery 1 carrot 4 table-spoons gdaze 4 yolks of eggs 1 gill sour cream Toast the brown bread. Add it with the sliced celery and carrot to a rich stock from which all the fat has not been removed. Bring to a boil. Simmer for an hour. Add four table-spoons glaze. Put all through a sieve. Heat gently. Add the liaison of eggs and cream. Serve with croutons made of brown bread (see p. 103). This soup can be made with German black bread. Cauliflower Cream 1 quart chicken stock 1 cup cooked cauliflower 2 yolks of eggs 2 pint cream 1 cup button mushrooms Put the cauliflower through a fine sieve. Add it to the boiling stock. Season. Add the liaison of cream and egg. Place the cooked mushrooms at the bottom of a soup tureen. Pour the soup over them.The Soup and 52 Cream of Rice with Parmesan 4 11). Carolina rice 1 quart chicken stock 1 gill cream 1 o'A. rarmesan 2 yolks of eggs Wash the rice. Boil it for ten minutes in water. Drain. xVdd to tlic stock. Simmer until the rice is tender. Put tlirough a line sieve. Add to tlic stock. Mix in the cheese. Add the liaison of cream and eggs (see p. 50). Quenelles of elucken (see p. 105) can be added if desired, or rice balls (see p. 107). Cucumber Soup 1 cucumber li pints white stock 1 oz. butter 1 onion Small handful of sorrel A little chervil 1 gill of cream 2 eggs Out the cucumber into thin slices. Sprinkle salt over them. Leave them for an hour. Drain. Put them in a sauce-pan with the buttei’, the onion, chervil and sorrel finely minced. xVdd the stock. Season. Simmer for twenty minutes. Add the liaison of cream and eggs and serve.Sauce Book Dutch Soup 2 carrots 2 turnips 1 cucumber 1 quart chicken or veal broth Yolks of 3 eggs 1 gill of cream Tea-spoonful butter 1 gill cooked French beans 1 gill cooked young peas Cut the carrots, turnips and cucumber into olive-sliaped i)ieces. Blancli for tliree minutes in boiling water. Add to tlie stock, and simmer until the vegetables are tender. Take off the fire. Season. Add the yolks and cream and butter (in small pieces). Stir over the fire until the soup thickens. Put the fresldy cooked peas and beans (cut into dice) into tlie soup tureen. Pour tlie soup over them. Flemish Soup 1 quart veal stock 1 handful spinach and sorrel ^ j)int cream 3 yolks of eggs Boil the chopped spinach and sorrel in tlie stock until tender. Season. Just before serving o 5BThe Soup and add the liaison of eggs and cream. Stir con- tinually until it thickens. Serve with croutons (p. 103). Friars Chicken 1 quart veal stock 1 chicken 3 yolks of eggs 1 pint cream or milk 2 table-spoons chopped parsley Cut the eliicken into joints. Scald and skin them. Add them to the stock. Season. Bring to the boil. Simmer gently for an hour. Skim from time to time. Strain. Add the liaison of egg and cream, and the parsley. Italian Macaroni Soup—I 5 ozs. macaroni 2 ozs. butter 1 quart vliite stock h ]unt cream or milk 3 yolks of eggs 1 oz. grated Parmesan Cut the macaroni in boiling water, adding butter, salt and ])epper. Boil for half-an-hour. Drain. Cut in half-inch lengths.Sauce Book Heat the white stock. Add the luacaroni to it. Siiiimer another half-hour. Add liaison of eo’OT'.i and cream (or milk) and the grated cheese. Macaroni Soup—II J lb. macaroni A little more than 1 quart chicken stock About 30 forcemeat balls 4 yolks of eggs 1 gill of cream Boil the macaroni for ten minutes in cold water. Drain it. Cut it in hnger-lengths. Cook it again for fifteen minutes in a little clear chicken stock. In a hot dish lay first a layer of macaroni, then one of small chicken force- meat balls (see p. 1(H), then another layer of macaroni, etc. Heat a quart of clear chicken stock to boiling point. Add a liaison of the yolks of four eggs and a gill of cream. Strain. Serve in a soup tureen with the dish of macaroni and forcemeat balls.The Soup and Russian Soup 2 kidneys 2 small onions j 11). mushrooms 1 dozen small olives 3 gherkins 1 quart strong stock Yolks of two eggs Melt the butter and fry the kidneys and onions (finely cut up) in it very gently for five minutes. Cook tlie inuslirooms separately. Put tlie kidneys, onions, mushrooms, olives and gherkins (finely sliced) in a hot soup tureen. Pour over them a quart of rich, dark, well-seasoned brown stock, which has been thickened with the yolks of Uvo Turkish Soup 1 quart of veal or beef stock 5 a tea-cu])ful of rice 2 yolks of eggs 1 table-spoon cream Boil the rice and stock together until the rice is tender. Press through a sieve. Season. Add the yolks and cream. Serve with croiltons. 50Sauce Book 57 Water-cress Soup 3 potatoes 1 handful chopped water-cress 1 (piart stock (or water) 2 yolks of eggs 1 table-spoon cream 1 oz. butter 1 tea-spoon white roux Peel and wash the potatoes. Cook them in a little stock. When tender mash them and put through a sieve. Add them to the rest of the stock. Put back on the hre. Heat gently. Add a tea-spoonful of white roux (see p. 12). Add the butter in small pieces. Make a liaison of the eggs and cream. Stir into the soup. Add the water-cress uncooked. Serve at once, before the water-cress becomes limp. White Chicken Soup The water in which a fowl has been boiled The carcase and bones of the fowl 1 pint milk or cream 1 table-spoon chopped onion 2 table-spoons „ celery Yolks of two eggs 1 gill chopped and cooked carrot and green peas Add the bones and carcase of the fowl, the onion, celery and seasoning to the water in whichSoup and Sauce Book a fowl lias Been lioiled. Sininier till reduced to one (juart. Strain and thicken with a white ronx of butter and hour. Add the liaison of cream (or milk) and eggs. Put the cooked carrot and peas in the soup tureen, and pour the soup over them. White Veal Soup 2 lbs. knuckle of veal 1 quart water 1 onion Half pint of milk or cream 2 yolks of eggs 1 table-spoon butter 1 „ flour Wipe the veal and cut it into small pieces. Cover with cold water and heat slowly, skimming constantly. Season with salt, three or four pepper-corns, and a chopped onion. Simmer for three hours until reduced by half. Strain. Allow it to cool. Remove the fat. Put in the stew-pan again, and when boiling thicken with white ronx made of table-spoon butter and a level tablespoon of flour (sec p. 12). Add a half pint of milk and eggs. Season again. Serve with fried bread.59 Vegetable Purees PAGE Puree of Asi')aragus G1 55 Black l)eans 02 55 Broad Beans 03 55 Carrots 03 55 Endive 04 55 Green Peas—I 05 55 Green Peas—II . 05 55 Italian Dried Green Peas 00 55 Lentils 07 55 Onions 08 55 Bice 08 55 Turnips . 0!) 55 Winter Vegetables • 0!)Wlicn passing vegetables or meat tlirongli a tammy or fine sieve, it will be easier if they are kept eontinnally moistened with a little of the stock or milk with which the pnree is to be made. Purees having been passed through the sieve or tammy, can, if not required at once, be set aside until wanted. But a puree that has reached this point must on no account be re- heated or have milk or cream added to it until just before it is to be served. When re-heating, if a meat puree, it should not be allowed to boil, or even be made hotter than is absolutely necessary. Allow all vegetable purees to boil up quickly for several minutes after the puree and stock have been mixed. This will clarify them. All scum should be carefully removed. ' When this is done, the butter and milk or cream can be added. A little white or brown roux well mixed with purees a minute or two before serving will pre- vent the actual puree from separating from the stock. GOPuree of Asparagus 1 bundle of asparagus 1 luindful si)inach 1 small onion J quart white stock }> })int milk or cream I oz. butter Break off all tliat is tender of each piece of asparagus. Scrape and wasli them. Leave them ill cold water for half-aii-hoiir. Drain them. But them in a sauce pan with a handful of spinach and a small onion. When tender take all out and drain again. Add to them a (piart of white stock. Season. Boil gently for ten minutes. Put through a tammy. Heat slowly again, season and add the butter and scalded cream. This soup may be deepened in colour by adding a little spinach colouring (p. 104). Serve with croiltons (p. 103). (UI'he Soup and 02 Puree of Black Beans 2 ])int black beaus 1 quart water 1 carrot(grated) J onion 2 bead celery 1 table-spoon butter 1 „ brown roux 2 ozs. raw ham or salt pork 2 cloves 1 bouquet herbs 1 lemon 2 hard-boiled eggs 1 glass sherry Soak the beans over iiiglit. Drain. Put them in a sauce-pan with one (juart cold water, and the ham or pork, the celery, grated carrot, herbs and cloves pounded. Slice the onion. Fry it in tlic butter. Add it to tlie beans, etc. Simmer for four or live hours. As the water boils away add cold water to keep it to the same (piantity. Put tlirougli a sieve. Return to the fire. Season with salt, pepper, and a little mustard. Stir in a table-spoonful of brown roux (see p. Id), dust before serving add the juice of half a lemon and a glass of sherry. Slice the hard-boiled eggs and half a lemon and put in the soup tureen. Pour the soup over it. Force-meat balls (p. 104) also may be served with this puree.Sauce Book 63 Puree of Broad Beans 1 pint of beans 1 slice of bacon or salt pork 2 sprigs of parsley 3 small onions and one clove I head of celery i quart water or stock h pint milk or cream i table-spoon butter 1 „ flour Boil the beans, one onion, parsley, celery and clove, in one quart of water or stock, until tender. Rub through a sieve into a basin, and set aside. Slice and boil two onions until tender. Drain them. Melt the butter in a sance-})an. Add the onions and a little nutmeg and fry until a good brown, stirring in the flour and mixing it smooth. Add the boiling milk. Boil for several minutes, stirring all the time. Press through a sieve, and add to the puree of beans. Season. Heat gently. Serve with croutons. Puree of Carrots 2 large carrots 1 „ onion 1 „ turnip 1 quart beef stock Scrape the carrots, and slice them finely, using the red outside part only. Slice tlic other vege-The Soup and tables. Put all together in a sauce-pan with the stock. Cook until tender. Rub through a sieve. Return to the tire. Season and add a small lump of sugar. Serve with croutons. Puree of Endive 3 large endives n> joints cliicken stock 1 table-spoon white roux 5 j)int cream or milk 2 ozs. butter Discard all but the white hearts of the endives. Wash them thoroughly, and boil them in salt water for ten minutes. Drain them and put them to stew very gently for quarter of an hour with the butter, stirring eontinually. Then add half a pint of white chicken stock, and simmer for an hour. Pass through a tammy. Return to the fire and add a pint more stock. Let it boil up. Season. Add the white roux (p. 12), butter and the boiling cream. Colour with spinach colouring (see p. 104).Sauce Book Puree of Green Peas—I 1 pint of green peas 1 turnij) 1 small onion 1 piece of mint 1 oz. of butter 1 quart brown stock fetew the vegetables with the butter, one pint of stock, and a little celery seed, until they are quite tender. Rub them through a line sieve or tammy. Return to the fire. Add the rest of the stock. Season, and add a lump of sugar and spinach colouring (see p. 104). Whenever possible, use half a head of celery finely chopped, instead of the celery seed. Puree of Green Peas—II 1 pint of peas 2 small onions 1 cabbage lettuce 1 bouquet herbs 1 quart stock 1 table-spoon white roux 1 gill cream Stew the peas, onion (sliced), lettuce and a bouquet of herbs in the butter very gently for E G5The Soup and ten minutes. Add to them the hot stock. Bring to the boil. Simmer for half - an-hour. Pass through a tammy. Re-heat gently. Season. Stir in the roux (p. 12) and a gill of cream. Serve with crofitons, or add to the soup some young cooked peas. Puree of Italian Dried Green Peas i pint of peas I head of celery 1 j pints of stock or water ^ pint cream or milk 1 table-spoon butter Soak the peas over night. Put them and the celery, chopped, on to boil with the water or stock. Boil till very tender. Put through a hair sieve or tammy. Put back ou the tire and heat gently. Season. Colour with spinach colouring. Just before serving add the butter, in small pieces, and, when it has melted, the boiling cream. Serve with croutons (see p. 103). 60Sauce Book 07 Puree of Lentils 1 pint of lentils 1 head of celery 1 onion 1 turnip 1 carrot 1 slice of ham 3 pints stock or water 1 gill of cream Soak the lentils in water over night. Let the vegetables (which should be cut up) and the ham stew gently in the butter for ten minutes. Strain the lentils from the water they have soaked in. Put them with the ham, vegetables and stock into a sauce-pan. Bring to the boil and simmer for two hours. Strain off the liquid. Pound and mash the lentils, etc., and pass them through a sieve. Return them to the liquid. Boil up again. Add a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar, seasoning and the cream, scalded. Serve with fried bread (see p. 103).The Soup and Puree of Onions 6 onions 1 small turnip i head celery 1 quart white stock 2 ozs. butter 2 pint cream or milk 12 button onions Cook the large onions, turnip, celery and butter with the stock until very tender. At the same time prepare and boil the button onions until soft. Put the vegetables and stock through a fine sieve. Return to the fire. Add the cream or milk, scalded, and the button onions. Season. Puree of Rice 4 table-spoons rice 1 pint stock 1 pint milk or cream 1 onion 1 carrot (grated) Bay leaf I cup fine bread crumbs 1 oz. butter Wash and parboil the rice. Add it to the stock with a grated carrot, the sliced onion (which should have been fried a light brown in the butter), and the bread crumbs. Simmer for half-an-hour. Pass through a fine sieve. Return to the fire. Add the scalded milk or cream, and season. Serve with croutons (see p. 103). G3Sauce Book 69 Puree of Turnip 4 turnips (preferably yellow) 1 large onion 1 carrot 1 piece of celeiy 4 ozs. butter 1^ pints stock or water ^ pint milk or cream Slice the vegetables finely and stew them in the butter. Add half a pint of the stock hot and simmer until the vegetables are very tender. Put through a sieve. Add the rest of the stock. Heat. Season. Just before serving add the scalded milk or cream. Puree of Winter Vegetables 1 onion 1 carrot 1 large turnip 5 small cabbage I head of celeiy 5 pint of stewetl tomatoes 1 (luart of water or stock Bouquet of sweet herli Table-spoon butter 1 gill cream or milk Cliop all the vegetables but the cabbage and tomatoes very fine. Put them in a sauce-panSoup and Sauce Book 70 witli tlie water or stock and boil. Cook the cabbage separately. When the vegetables are tender, add the cabbage. Simmer ten minutes. Add the tomatoes and a bouquet of herbs. Boil for quarter of an hour. Rub through a sieve. Return to the fire. Season. Add the butter and the cream.71 Meat Purees lAGE Puree of Fowl a la Pteine . . . .73 „ „ a la Heine Margot . . .73 „ Hare . . . • .74 „ Pheasant . . . . .75 „ llabbit . . . • .7572 Whenever a piece of meat or fowl is added to a soup, it must be added as late as possible, and the soup must not be allowed to boil after it has been added, or even made very hot. If it boils the puree will curdle. Should it by accident do so, it is possible to remedy it by adding a little more stock to the soup, putting it all through a tammy again, and then warming it gently.Puree of Fowl a la Reine 1 large tender fowl j lb. boiled rice pints water I pint cream Roast the fowl. Cut off all the meat from it. Chop it and pound it. Break the bones and carcase of the fowl. Put them and the skin in a sauce-pan with the water. Bring to a boil and simmer for an hour or two. Skim and strain. Add it to the pounded meat. Pass through a tammy. Add the scalded cream. Season. Puree of Fowl a la Reine Margot 1 fowl 1 quart water I pint cream 3 OZ.S. ])ounded almonds 1 tea-cup bread crumbs Boil the fowl in a quart of water. Wlien the fowl is tender, take it out and set it aside. 7dThe Soup and 74 Skim the broth and pour it into a basin. Cut all the meat olf the fowl. Chop it very tine and pound it. Add to it the bread crumbs (which must be very finely grated), and the pounded almonds. Put all through a tammy and add to the broth. Season. Add the boiling cream. The yolks of three eggs can also be added if desired (see p. 50). Puree of Hare 1 small hare 1 quart water or consomme 1 small bouquet of herbs 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. boiled rice w pint Sauterne Skin and clean the hare. Cut it up into small pieces. Melt the butter in a large sauce-pan. Add the pieces of hare to it with a small bouquet of herbs. Frv them a good brown colour. Add the water or stock. Bring to the boil. Simmer an hour-and-a-half. Strain off the broth. Cut off all the meat from the hare. Chop and pound it. Add the rice. Dilute with the broth and pass through a tammy. Heat the puree gently when required, adding the Sauterne. Season. Serve with fried croutons.Sauce Book Puree of Pheasants 1 pheasant 1 quart stock 3 ozs. boiled rice 1 table-spoon glaze Roast the pheasant until it is thoroughly done. Cut off all the meat. Set aside the white meat. Put the rest with the bones and stock into a sauce-pan. Bring to the boil and simmer for an hour. Chop and pound the meat. Add the rice to it. Dilute with the strained stock. Pass through a tammy. Add the table-spoonful of glaze (see p. 14). Serve with crohtons. Puree of Rabbit 1 rabbit l| pints water 2 ozs. barley or rice (well boiled) ^ pint cream 1 table-spoon brown roux Roast tlie rabbit, seasoning it with salt, pepper and nutmeg. When it is done, cut off all the meat. Put tlie bones with the water to make a stock and simmer an hour or two. Skim and strain. Cliop the meat and pound it. WhenSoup and Sauce Book the stock is ready, put it with tlie meat and barley or rice throiigli a tammy. When ready to serve, lieat tlie puree gently, and add the roiix (see p. 12). Season, and add half a pint of scalded cream. (Quenelles of rabbit may be served with this puree (see p. 105).Bisques Crab Bisque Lobster Bisque Oyster BisqueCrab Bisque 78 1 large crab li pints white stock Bread crumbs or rice 2 yolks of hard-boiled eggs I pint cream 1 glass white wine (Sauterne or Bhenish) Take out all the meat, setting that from the claws aside. Pound tlie rest of the meat with the pulpy part. Add to it about half its weight in fine bread crumbs or boiled rice, and the yolks. Dilute with the stock. Rub through a tammv. Heat very gently, taking care that it does not boil. Season with salt and cayenne. Add half a pint of boiling cream, and, if desired, a glass of white wine, and the shredded meat from the claws. Lobster Bisque 1 hen-lobster U pints white stock h head of celery 2 ozs. butter 5 pint cream or white wine (Sauterne or Bhenish) Remove the meat from a hen-lobster. Set aside the coral and dry it. Cut uj) the meatSauce Book 79 into very fine slirecls and fry tliein for five minutes in the butter, witli tiie chopped celery and pepper and salt. Add the stock and boil for half-an- hour. Drain off the stock. Pound the meat and pass it through a tammy. When required, return the stock and puree to the fire. Heat gently and stir continually, stir in the coral which should have been rubbed through a very fine sieve when dry. Season and add a few drops of lemon juice, the scalded cream or half a pint of hot white wine. Do not allow the bisque to boil. Poil the oysters gently for quarter of an hour in the stock, adding to it one ounce of butter and the spices. Take off the fire and drain. Set aside the stock. Chop the oysters very fine. Melt two ounces of butter and add them to it. Stir in the flour gradually and smoothly. Add 1 pint oysters 1 pint stock 1 pint milk 1 gill cream 1 blade mace Nutmeg 4 ozs. butterSoup and Sauce Book 80 the stock, and a pint of milk. Boil for ten minutes, stirring continually. Rub through a tammy. Return to the fire. Add a gill of boiling cream and an ounce of butter in small pieces. Stir the biscpie until it is melted, but do not allow it to boil. Season. Serve with erofitons (see p. 108).f Fish Soups Bouillabaisse Fish Soup . Oyster Soup Salmon Soup PAGE 82 83 84 84 F B182 Bouillabaisse About 3 lbs. of fisli 2 onions 2 table-spoons of olive oil ^ a lemon 2 small tomatoes 1 glass white wine 1 laurel leaf 4 pepper corns 1 table-spoon chopped parsley Bread Wash tlie fish and cut it across in slices of different sizes. Take a large iron sauce-pan, fry the onions with olive oil in it. When they are coloured a good brown add the fish to the sauce-pan and just cover it with warm water. Add also a laurel leaf, the inside of half a lemon (from which the pips have been removed), two small tomatoes (peeled and the seeds taken out) cut in dice and a glass of light white wine, the pepper-corns and salt. Make up a big fire. Set the sauce-paii on it and let the contents boil violently for tAvelve to fifteen minutes. Then add a table-spoon of chopped parsley. Let it continue boiling for a minute. In a warmed soup tureen put a number ofSauce Rook slices of roll or bread. Pour the liquid over them. See that they become thoroughly soaked with it. Add the best of the fish and serve. The best fish to use for Bouillabaisse are cod, whiting, mullet, sole, turbot and langouste. It is absolutely essential that all the fish used should be perfectly fresh. Ill France 4 cloves of garlic would be added with the tomatoes, but this is optional. Cook the fish in boiling salted water until it fiakes easily. Drain it. Take away the bones and skin and rub the fish through a sieve. Put the sliced onion in the milk and boil for ten minutes. Remove the onion. Add the white roux (see p. 12) to the milk. Stir till well mixed. Add the fish. Season. Fish 1 lb. cod or lialibut 1 quart milk 1 sliced onion ] table-spoon white rouxllie Soup and 84 Oyster Soup 1 pint oysters 2 pint water 1 pint milk 1 gill thick ci’eam 1 table-spoon white roux Cover the oysters with the cold water. After a little while remove tlicm. Strain the liipior. Put it on to boil and skim. AVhen clear add the oysters. Let them simmer until their edges ruflle and their bodies grow plump. (This should take about five minutes.) Take out the oysters, set them where they will keep warm. Add the liquor to the milk, wliieh should be boiling. Add the roux (see p. 12) and seasoning. Simmer five minutes. Add the boiling cream. Add the oysters. lb. salmon 1 quart white stock 2 anchovies 5 head of celery A jiiece of parsley 1 clove 1 gill cream 1 table-spoon white roux Let half a pound of the salmon stew gently with the chopped anchovies, in two ounces of SalmonSauce Book butter, for twenty minutes, being very careful tliat it docs not brown. Add tlie stock, the celery, cut fine, parsley, spice and herbs. Bring to the boil. zVdd the white roux (p. 12). Simmer for an hour-and-a-half. Put through a tammy. Return to the fire. Add the boiling cream. Season an<l serve at once.Broths PAGE Barley Broth ..... 87 Cliicken Broth . . • • .87 Cockle Leekie . . . . .88 Game Broth . . • • .89 Hotch Potcli . . • . .90 Potato Broth . . ■ • .90 Scotch Broth . . • • .91 Slieep’s Head Broth . . • .92 B()Barley Broth 2 lbs. lean mutton 5 lb. barley 2 turnips 2 carrots 1 leek or onion 2 table-spoons chopi^ed parsley 2 quarts of water Trim the mutton and cut it into small dice- shaped })ieces. Put it witli the barley in a sauce- pan. Cover with the water. Bring to a boil. Simmer for two hours, skimming from time to time. Add the vegetables, which should be finely chopped, and the parsley. Season. Simmer for forty minutes. Chicken Broth 1 chicken 1 quart cold water 1 onion 2 table-spoons of rice Clean the chicken. Separate it into joints, removing all skin and fat. Put it into a saucc- b/The Soup and 88 pan and cover with tlie cold water. Add the onion sliced. Simmer until the chicken is tender. Remove the breast of the chicken from the sauee-pan. Let the rest continue to simmer until the meat comes clean away from the bones. Strain off the broth. Remove the fat. Take two table-spoonfuls of rice which has already been washed and soaked for half-an-hour. Put the broth on the fire again. Add to it the rice. Season. Add the breast of the chicken cut in small pieces. Simmer until the rice is tender. A cup of scalded cream can be added just })efore serving. Cockie Leekie 1 fowl 2 lbs. shill of beef or knuckle of l eal 2 quarts of water 12 leeks Skin the fowl and cut it into joints. Put it in a stew-pan with the meat (which should not be cut up) and cover with the water. Bring to a boil. Let it simmer for two hours. Skim. Cut off the coarser jiart of the leeks, and cut the best parts into pieces about an inch long. (The leeks are improved by being soaked inSauce Book water for two hours before using.) Add to the soup. Siiiiiner for lialf-aii-hour. Take out the meat and fowl. Cut the breast of the fowl into small pieces and return to the soup. Season. A tea-cupful of boiled rice can be added if wished. Game Broth Two or three birds (any kind of game) 2 quarts of cold water 1 whole carrot 1 whole turnip I tea-cup chopped white cabbage. 3 potatoes sliced 1 dozen small onions 1 head of celery Cut the game into small pieces, cover with two quarts of cold water. Add an onion, two carrots, a turnip and several pieces of celery. Bring to a boil. Simmer very gently for four hours. Strain off the broth. Choose the best pieces of meat from the game, cut them up into neat pieces. Add to the broth. Put back on the fire, and add a head of celery very finely sliced, a dozen small onions, and three large potatoes cut in slices. Simmer gently for about three quarters of an hour. Add the cooked chopped cabbage, and simmer another five minutes. B9The Soup and 90 Hotch Potch 2 lbs. lean mutton from the neck 2 quarts cold water 1 large carrot 1 turnip 2 onions 1 cabbage 1 small cauliflower I pint of shelled peas Cut tlie mutton into dice-shaped pieces, re- moving the fat and skin. Put it in a sauce-pan with the water and bring to tlie boil. Let it simmer gently for two hours. Skim. Season. Add all the vegetables, finely chopped, exce})t the cabbage (of which the heart only should be used and which should be cooked separately). Simmer two or three hours. Add the cabbage. Potato Broth The water in which a joint of mutton has been boiled 1 oz. ham 1 oz. butter 1 small onion 3 large potatoes Reduce the water to one quart. Strain, and remove the fat. Chop one ounce of lean ham very fine. IMeltSauce Book 91 an ounce of butter in a saiice-pan, and in it fry the liani and a small sliced onion until a rich brown. Add this to the broth and simmer thirty minutes. Strain. Season. Pare and slice three large potatoes. Add to the broth. Bring to the boil. Simmer for forty minutes. Scotch Broth 2 lbs. scrag end neck of mutton 1 lb best end „ „ 2 quarts water 2 carrots 2 turnips 3 small onions or 2 leeks Small bead of celery 1 table-spoon chopped parsley 3 table-spoons barley which lias been soaked several hours Soak the scrag end in cold water for an hour. Remove the skin very carefully and part of the fat. Ihit on to boil with two quarts of cold water. When it boils skim it. Set baek to simmer for two hours. Strain. Put the strained broth into a sauce-pan. Add to it the best end of the neck, cither in cutlets or using the meat only (cut in neat pieces) and the barley. Bring to the boil. Simmer two hours. Skim. Add the vegetables cut into small dice-shaped pieces. Season. Simmer till vegetables arc tender. Add parsley.92 Soup and Sauce Book Sheep’s Head Broth 1 slieep’s liead 1 tea-cup peai’l barley 2 quarts cold water 3 onions and two cloves 1 turnip 1 carrot Bouquet of herbs Glass of white wine Mushroom ketchup Remove the brains from a sheep’s head, and clean it. Leave tlie head in water over night. The next day put tlic head in a sauce-pan with the water and barley. Bring to a boil. Throw in a little cold water. Skim. Simmer for an hour, stirring from time to time. Add the vegetables, cut up finely, and herbs. Simmer three or four hours until head is tender. Strain off the broth from the head. Put the vegetables through a sieve and add to the broth. Let it stand till cold. Remove tlie fat. Take the best of the meat from the head. Cut it into small ])ieces. Put them with the broth in a sauce-pan. Heat gently. Add a wine-glass of white wine and a little mushroom ketchup just before serving.93 Broths and Soups for Invalids PAGE l>eef Essence . . . . .95 Beef Tea—I ..... 95 Beef Tea—II . . . . .96 „ „ -III 96 Calves’ Foot Broth. . . . .97 Chicken Bi'otli . . . . .98 ,, Custard ..... 98 „ Panada . . . . .99 Game Panada ..... 99 Chicken Tea ..... 100 ]\Iutton Broth ..... 100 Veal Broth ..... 10194 It is essential in making invalid soups that the meat used should be uncooked and very good. For beef tea use steak or shin of beef. Every piece of skin, membrane and flxt should be carefully removed from the meat to be used. Vegetables, spice and seasoning should not be used unless permitted by the doctor. When soup has to be made quickly a little time can be saved by removing the fat from it while it is still hot (see p. 3).Beef Essence Cut up a lean piece of juicy rump steak into small pieces. Put these into a closely covered jar without any water. Stand the jar in a large sauce-pan coiitaiuing cold water. Heat slowly and keep just below boiling point. When the meat in tlie jar is white, it is done. This should be in about two hours. Strain off the juice, pressing the meat while doing so in order that none may be left in it. Season with a little salt. Ok, Place the meat in a closely covered jar in a moderate oven, leaving it there for three hours. Strain as above. In both cases the essence shonld be kept in a cold place. It must not be boiled when it is heated. It can be made into beef tea by adding boiling water to it. ^ Beef Tea—I 1 lb. very juicy nmip steak or shin of beef 1 cup cold water Cut the meat into very small pieces. Put these in a bowl and cover with a cup of cold 9oSauce Book 96 wutei-. Cover tlie basin and leave for three or four lionrs. Then, squeezing tlie meat firmly, drain off all the li(iuid. Strain this, add a little salt, and when required heat very gently. It is best to do this in a hain marie, as it curdles easily (see p. 110). Add another cup of cold water to the meat, and proceed as for the first cup. Beef Tea—II 1 lb. steak or shin of beef 2 pints water Cut the meat, which must be lean and juicy, into small pieces. Put them into a stew-pan and cover with a quart of water. Heat very gently. Skim whenever necessary. Simmer for a little more than an hour. Strain through muslin into a basin. Let it stand until cool. Remove the fixt. Pour off the clear beef tea very gently from the dregs. Beef Tea—III 4 lbs. of steak or shin of beef 2 lbs. bones 2 quarts cold water Break and crush the bones. Cut the meat into small pieces. Put into a stew-pan andSauce Book 97 cover witli the cold water. Heat very slowly. Simmer for three hours. Add a little salt. Strain into a basin. Allow it to cool. Remove any fat very carefully. Pour off the clear liquid carefully from the dregs. If allowed, a little cai'rot and celery may be cooked with the beef tea. Calves’ Foot Broth (or Jelly) 2 calves’ feet 2 quai-ts cold water 2 table-si)oons sugar Juice of half a lemon Glass of good white wine Scald and clean the feet. Split and break them. Put into a stew-pan and cover with two qiiaits of cold water. Heat very slowly and simmer until reduced to about a pint and a half. Stiain. ^Vhen cold remove the fat. Add sugar and lemon juice. Return to the fire. Let it bl)il for five minutes, stirring continually. Skim thoroughly. Add the wine. Strain through a jelly bag, and keep in a cold place. In making broth, the wine may be omitted, and in its place the beaten yolk of an egg added. In which case it will only be necessary to strain it instead of passing it through a jelly bag. Sago or tapioca, which has been boiled till tender should be added. ’ (jThe Soup and Chicken Broth One chicken 1 quart of cold water Juice of a lemon ])oiled rice or venuicelli Cut up a cliickcn into small pieces. Remove the meat from the bones as much as })ossible. Crush the bones. Cover meat and bones with a quart of wateit Heat very slowly. Simmer until perfectly tender. When tender strain off the liquid. Let it get cool. Remove the fat. Heat again, adding a little salt and a few drops of lemon juice. Allow the broth to boil for five minutes. Strain through a napkin. Add a little well boiled rice or vermicelli, and a little of the white meat of the ehieken cut in dice. Chicken Custard 1 chicken 3 pints of cold water 2 yolks of eggs Clean, skin and cut up a young ehieken. Ihit it into a stew-pan with about three pints of cold water. Heat very slowly. Skim carefully when it boils. Allow it to simmer for an hour. Strain off the li(juid through a napkin. 9bSauce Book 99 To each half pint of broth add the yolks of two eggs. Put in a double boiler and stir until it thickens (see p. 50). Serve at once. Chicken Panada 1 chicken ] French roll 1 quart cold water Skin a chicken and boil it gently until tender. Ptcniove it from the liquid and let it cool. Then cut off the white meat, pound it in a mortar. Mix with it the crumb of a French roll that has been soaked in broth. Add a little of the broth the chicken was boiled in. Pass through a tammy. Dilute with broth. Salt. Heat gently, but do not allow it to boil. A table-spoon of well-boiled rice may be substituted for the crumb of a French roll. Game Panada (jiamc panada is made in exactly the same way as chicken panada, sul)stituting a pheasant, or a couple of partridges, for the chicken.The Soup and 100 Chicken Tea 1 chicken 1 quart cold water Skin a cliickcn and divide it into pieces. Put in a stew-pan and cover with one quart of water. Simmer gently for a full hour. Strain. Allow it to cool. Remove the fat. Serve hot or cold. Mutton Broth 1 lb. lean mutton 1 pint cold water 2 table-spoons boiled rice Chop the mutton very hue. Put it in a stew- pan with one pint of cold water. Put it in a basin and cover it with the water. Cover the basin. Let it stand for an hour. Then heat very gently. Simmer for (piartcr of an hour. Sti’ain. Remove the fat. Add the well-boiled rice.Sauce Book 101 Veal Broth A knuckle of veal A chicken 2 quarts of water 2 table-spoons well-boiled rice Put a knuckle of veal and a ehieken (an old one will do) into a large stew-pan. Cover with two quarts of water. Let it boil up gently. Skim. Simmer for three hours. Strain through a napkin. xVIIow it to cool. Remove the fat. Serve with a little boiled rice.Accessories PACK Crofttons . . . . . .104 Custai'ds . . . . . .104 Force-meat Balls . . . . .105 Green Colouring . . . . .105 Potato Balls ..... 100 Quenelles of Chicken, Game, Plare, Babbit . 106 Quenelles of Marrow . . . .107 Bice ....... 107 Bice (savoury) . . . . .108 Bice Balls . . . . . .108 I OBCroutons Several slices of stale bread 1 oz. of butter Cut off the crust aud cut the bread into small dice-shaped pieces. Fry them in the butter. Drain them on a sieve. Before serving, put them for a few minutes in a quick oven. Custards for Clear Soup 4 yolks of eggs 1 gill consomme or water Beat the yolks in a basin, stir in the consomm^ or water. Add a little salt. Strain through a hair sieve into a shallow mould. Steam it until well set. Let it become quite cold. Put out on a wet cloth. Cut in squares or fancy shapes. Part of tlie custard may be coloured green with spinach colouring. 10-1Sauce Book 105 Force-meat Balls 1 cup of meat of any kind 1 tea-spoon finely chopped parsley 1 salt-spoon thyme 1 tea-spoon lemon juice 1 yolk of egg (raw) 1 table-spoon flour 1 „ butter Chop the meat very fine, season it liighly, and add the lemon juice, tliyme and parsley. Moisten with the yolk of egg. Roll into small balls. Flour them well. Melt the butter in a shallow pan. When it is brown add the balls. Fry until brown. Green Colouring Pound some spinach in a mortar and put it through a hair sieve. Put the juice in a sauce- pan and boil it until it curdles. Put through a very fine sieve. Bottle.The Soup and Potato Balls (For Potato or Clear Soups) 2 potatoes 1 oz. butter 1 table-spoon thick cream 1 pcrtr Boil the potatoes. Rub them through a sieve. Put them ill a saiiee-paii with the butter and eream. Season. Stir over a good fire until of a stiff consistenev. Remove from the fire and A/ put in a basin. Add the yolk of an egg and the lieaten white. Form into small balls. Drop into boiling water. Boil two or three minutes. Quenelles of Chicken, Game, Hare or Rabbit 4 ozs. meat 2 ozs. bread-crumbs 2 ozs. butter 1 whole e^>:g and 1 extra yolk Choj) and pound tlie meat. Soak the bread- ernmbs in a little milk or broth. Mix all thoroughly together. Season. Pass through a 100Sauce Book 107 sieve. Form into balls. Drop into boiling water or broth and simmer for three minutes. The best meat should always be reserved for making quenelles. Quenelles of Marrow 4 ozs. marrow 4 ozs. tine bread-crumbs 1 egg o tea-spoonful finely-chopped parsley Mix all the ingredients thoroughly. Season. Roll in the hand in small balls. Boil in a little broth for fifteen minutes. Rice 1 cup of Carolina rice 2 quarts i)oiling water 1 table-spoon salt Wash a cup of rice thoroughly. Drain it. Throw it into a large saucepan of salted boiling water and let it boil as fast as possible for twenty minutes. Do not stir. Drain. But into cold water for ten minutes. Drain again. When required warm it by steaming, or set it in the oven, leaving the door open.Soup and Sauce Book Savoury Rice (To serve with Clear Soup) Prepare the rice as above. Add to it one eup of rich stock which lias been highly seasoned. Steam to warm. Add a table-spoon of butter just before serving. Ok, Add a table-spoon of ehoj^ped onion wliieh has been fried a rich yellow in a tablc-sjmon of butter, to the cooked rice. Moisten with a cup of stock and steam for ten minutes. Rice Balls (For Cream of Rice or Clear Soups) 4 lb. Carolina rice 1 oz. butter 1 oz. grated Parmesan 2 yolks of eggs 1 whole egg T3oil the rice until quite soft. Drain it. Put it in a saiice-iian with the butter, cheese and yolks. Stir continually for five minutes. Season. Take off the lire. Turn out of the sauce-pan to cool. When cold, make into small balls. Beat the whole egg. Roll the balls first in a little dour, then in the egg. Fry in very hot lard till a rich yellow. lOdSaucesThere is, of course, no end to sauces, and in a book of tliis size it is impossible to do justice to their variety. Enongli are, liowever, I hope, given in the pages that follow for ordinary needs. It is of the highest importance in making sauces that the materials used should be of the best. Fresh butter and the finest olive oil should be used. When adding the yolks of eggs to sauces it is best to do so in a hain marie (i.e. to stand the sauce-pan in which the sauce is being made, inside a larger one full of boiling water), as they must never be allowed to boil, and a quick fire easily burns them. For thickening sauces, etc., see remarks on soup on p. 12. 110Hot Sauces for Fish 111 .PAGK Black Butter . . . . .112 Dutch Sauce . . . . .112 Genoese Sauce . . . . .113 Italian Sauce . . . . .113 Maltre d’Hotel Sauce . . . .114 Melted Butter . . . . .114 Anchovy Sauce . . . . . 1 ’ 4 Cucumber Sauce .... 114 Egg Sauce . . . .114 Shrimp Sauce . . . . .114 Oyster Sauce . . . .115 Sauce Hollandaise . . . . .115112 Black Butter (For Skate, grilled Mackerel) 1 gill vinegar 4 ozs. butter Sevei'al small parsley leaves Small piece of bay leaf Boil the vinegar with the bay leaf until it is considerably reduced. Heat the butter in a pan until it becomes brown. Add the parsley leaves. Let them fry for a moment. Skim the butter. Remove the bay leaf from the vinegar. Add a little salt and pepper. Pour the butter and parsley leaves into it. Mix and serve. Dutch Sauce Putter, size of an egg 1 tea-spoon flour 1 pint milk or cream Juice of half a lemon 2 yolks of eggs Melt the butter in a sauce-pan. Stir in the hour and mix till perfectly smooth. Add the milk or cream. Boil for two or three minutes. Add lemon juice, and just before serving, stir in the two yolks. After which do not allow the sauce to boil.Sauce Book H 113 Genoese Sauce (For Fillet of Sole) 1 oz. butter 2 table-si^oons olive oil 2 yolks of eggs 1 table-spoon vinegar Put the oil and butter into a sance-pan on the fire and stir till the butter is melted. Beat the yolks slightly. Add the vinegar to tliem. Season. Directly the butter is melted add the yolks and vinegar, stirring continually over a hain marie until the sauce thickens. Half a tea-spoonful of mustard may be added. Italian Sauce (For Mackerel, etc.) 2 table-spoons olive oil 1 oz butter 6 chopped mushrooms 1 shallot, finely chopped 1 tea-spoon chopped parsley 1 clove 1 wine-glass white wine 10 drops Liebig’s extract of meat Put the butter and oil into a sance-pan. Add the mushrooms, shallot, parsley and the clove.The Soup and 114 Cook for a few minutes. Add the wine and Liebig. Siinmer gently for forty minutes. Season. Ikiss througli a sieve. Maitre d’Hotel 4 ozs. butter ^ j)iiit milk 1 tea-spoon flour 1 dessert-spoon flnely chopped parsley Juice of a lemon Mix the flour and butter together till smooth. Melt in a sauce-pan. Add the boiling milk. Let all boil for three or four minutes, stirring constantly. Add the parsley and lemon juice. Melted Butter 1 tea-spoon flour 4 ozs. butter 1 gill boiling milk or water Mix the Hour and butter thoroughly in a basin. When perfectly smooth put in a saucepan. Add to it the boiling milk or water. Let it boil for two or three minutes. Stir continually from left to right. Season. To this sauce the raw yolk of an egg or a finely cbop|)ed bard boiled egg, shrimps, a little essence of anchovy, or a table spoon of gratedSauce Book 115 cucumber may be added; wlieii it becomes egg, siirimp, anchovy or cucumber sauce. To the cucumber sauce add a tea-spoonful of lemon juice. 2 doz. oysters 3 ozs. butter 1 tea-sj^oon flour i pint cream 1 coffee-spoon lemon juice Prepare the oysters and stew them in their own juice and the butter until plump and tender. Mix the flour with the cream, until perfectly smooth. Bring to the boil and let it boil two or three minutes. Add it to the oysters, etc. Stir quickly together. Season with salt, a little cayenne and the lemon juice. Sauce Hollandaise 4 table-spoons vinegar 1 blade mace 1 tea-spoon flour Yolks of 4 eggs 3 ozs. butter Season the vinegar, add to it the flour and mix perfectly smooth. Add the mace. BringSoup and Sauce Book to the boil and boil for two or three minutes. Take off the fire, and take out the mace. Add the butter cut in small pieces, and the well- beaten yolks. Stir continually, in one direction, over a hciin marie. Serve directly the butter is melted. noHot Sauces for Roasts, 117 Steaks, Cutlets, etc. Brown Sauce . . . . . Cucumber Sauce .... Dutcli Horse-radish Sauce Maltre d’Hotel I. . „ » II Musliroom Sauce .... Onion „ . . . Sauce Bearnaise .... Sauce for Cliops and Steaks Sauce Piquante au Citron Sauce Robert .... Sauce Vinaigrette .... Tomato Sauce .... PAGK 118 118 119 120 120 121 121 122 122 123 123 124 124Brown Sauce or Cullis 3 lbs. lean veal 1 lb. raw lean ham 1 oz. butter 6 mushrooms chopped 1 carrot cliopped 1 onion chopped Hind of a lemon Small bouquet of herbs 1 tea-spoon allspice 1 quart brown stock j lb. brown roux Slice the veal and ham. Add the vegetables, spice, lemon rind and herbs, and brown slightly in a saiice-pan with the butter. Add the stock and brown roux (see p. Id). Boil ten minutes. Stir coiitinually. Put through a tammy. Cucumber Sauce 1 cucumber 2 table-spoons brown stock 1 oz. buttei' 1 table-spoon chop)ie(l i)arsley Juice of half a lemon i ])int bi’own sauce I’eel and split the cucumber lengthwise in four pieces. Take out the seeds. Cut in small pieces. lidSauce Book 119 Put into salted water and boil gently for seven minutes. Take off and drain. ■Melt the butter and add to it the stock, cucumber and parsley. Cook gently for half-an-hour. Add the brown sauce and lemon juice. Dutch Horse-radish Sauce (For Roast Beef or Steak) 1 tea-cup horse-radish I pint water 3 ozs. butter 3 table-spoons flour 1 gill cream 4 yolks of eggs 3 table-spoons elder vinegar Scrape the horse-radish very finely, and boil it for ten minutes in water. Drain off the water. Cook the horse-radish with the butter and Hour for four minutes. Add the water in which the horse-radish was boiled, stirring continually. Heat. Take off the fire. Add the hot cream and then the beaten yolks. Ikmt well together. Add pepper, salt and the vinegar.The Soup and 120 Maltre d’Hotel—I 2 ozs. blitter 1 table-spoon choi^ped parsley Juice of half a lemon Melt the butter. Skim it. Add the parsley (and, if liked, a little finely chopped shallotj, salt, pepper and lemon juice. Maitre d’Hotel—II 4 shallots 1 tea-spoon chopped parsley 1 tea-spoon choiiped fennel 1 dozen mushrooms 2 ozs. butter ^ pint brown sauce or bechamel Chop the shallots. Put them with the parsley, fennel and muslirooms in a sauce-pan in which the butter has been melted. Cook gently for five minutes. Add the brown sauce or bechamel (see pp. 118 and 126). Boil ten minutes. Season and add a squeeze of lemon juice.Sauce Book 121 Mushroom Sauce 2 dozen small mushrooms 1 oz. butter 1 table-spoon flour 1 pint good gravy h a lemon Cook tlie mushrooms in the butter until brown and tender. Add the flour. Stir well in and brown. Pour the gravy over the mushrooms. Boil three minutes. Season and add a little lemon juice. Onion Sauce (For Roast Mutton) 4 onions 5 i:)int melted butter (see p. 114) Slice and chop the onions finely. Boil until tender. Drain and add to the hot melted butter. Season. If preferred, the onion can be first passed tlirough a fine sieve and then added to the melted butter.The Soup and 122 Sauce Bearnaise 5 yolks of eggs 2 ozs. butter 1 table-spoon chopped tarragon 1 dessert-spoon vinegar Put the yolks in a sauce-paii, in a hain marie, and stir into tliem one ounce of butter. As soon as the eggs begin to thicken, take off tlie fire. Add another ounce of butter, the tarragon and vinegar. This sauce should be of the consistency of a mayonnaise. Serve with roast meats. Sauce for Chops or Steak 2 table-spoons red wine 2 table-spoons ketchup 1 tea-spoon butter 1 tea s]ioon vinegar Stir altogether in a sauce-pan. Season and serve very hot.Sauce Book Sauce Piquante au Citron (For Calf’s Head) 2 table-spoons chopped onions 1 oz. butter 1 table-spoon flour 1 gill white stock 1 gill white wine 1 lemon Fry the onion in the butter, with the flour, until a rich yellow. Add to it the stock, wldch should be boiliii" and the wane. Stir toiicther. Add the juice of the lemon and a little of the grated rind. Sinimcr for quarter of an hour. Strain through a flue sieve. Sauce Robert (For Pork) .3 onions 1 gill rich brown gravy 1 tea-spoon made mustard 1 tea-spoon vinegar 2 ozs. butter 1 table-spoon flour Chop the onions. Fry them in the butter. Add the flour. Mix quite smooth. Add the gravy, salt and pepper. Simmer for half-an-hour. Skim. Add the mustard and vinegar. Serve with pork.Soup and Sauce Book Sauce Vinaigrette 4 table-spoons vinegar 1 bay leaf 1 table-spoon brown sauce 1 table-s})oon chopped shallots 2 table-spoons choi)]jed gherkins 1 table-spoon capers 1 table-spoon chopped parsley 1 oz. butter Boil the vinegar for quarter of an hour with tlie bay leaf. Add tlie sauee (see p. 118). Simmer Hve minutes. Remove the bay leaf. Add the shallots (which should have been previously cooked in the butter and allowed to drain upon a sieve), capers, gherkins and parsley. Tomato Sauce 6 tomatoes 5 an onion chopped 1 clove 1 slice of ham 1 gill rich bi’own gravy 1 table-spoon brown roux Remove the seeds from the tomatoes. Stew them with the onion, ham and clove in an enamel saucepan until well cooked. Rub through a tammy. Return to the saucepan. Add the gravy and brown roux (sec }). 12). Simmer for quarter of an hour. 12-1Hot Sauces for Fowls, Ducks, 125 Rabbits, etc. PAGE Apple Sauce . . . . 126 Bechamel Sauce . . . . .126 Bread Sauce . . . . .127 Celery Sauce ..... 127 Gooseberry Sauce . . . . .128 Lemon Sauce . . . . .128 Parsley Sauce . . . . .129 Sauce a la Beine . . . . .129 White Sauce . . . . .130Apple Sauce Set the required quantity of sour apples, pared, cored and sliced, in a small pan inside a large sauce-pan containing boiling water. Let the water boil quickly until the apples are done. Mash them and add sugar to taste. Oh, Pare, quarter and remove the core of several sour apples. Put them a sauce-pan with a little water. Boil up quickly. Do not stir until cooked. Then add sugar and mash. Bechamel 1 lb. veal 2 slices ham 2 ]hnts water f 11). mushrooms 1 onion Bouquet of hei bs 5 table-spoons wliite roux 1 })int ci’eam Slice the veal, ham, mushrooms and onion and stew them gently for an hour and a half in the water. Thicken with the roux (see p. 12). 120Sauce Book 127 Add the cream. Boil for two or three mimites, stirring continually. Strain. Bread Sauce 5 pint milk 1 tea-cup bread-crumbs 1 onion 2 pepper-corns 1 tea-spoon butter Slice the onion and boil it in the milk with the pepper-corns until very tender. Strain off the milk and add it to the bread-crumbs which should be made from stale bread and be very finely grated. Allow the sauce to stand covered for a few minutes. Add the butter. Stir in thoroughly. Season and serve very hot. Celery Sauce 0 1 large head of celery h pint milk or cream 1 table-spoon white I'oux Use the best of the celery only. Cut it in small pieces. Cook it in water until very tender. Put through a sieve. Add it to the cream or milk. Thicken with a small table-spoon white roux (see p. 12). Season.The Soup and Gooseberry Sauce (For Duckling or Goose) 1 gill spinach juice 5 pint stock I pint gooseberries 1 table-spoon sugar 1 tea-spoon butter Cook the gooseberries till tender. Rub them through a sieve. Put them in a sauce-pan on the fire. Add the sugar (more if preferred) and butter. When thoroughly mixed, add the stock with which the spinacli juice (see p. 104) has been mixed. Make very hot. Lemon Sauce (For Rabbit or Fowl) 1 lemon 1 liver of fowl or rabbit I pint melted butter 1 table-spoon chopped ])arsley Cook the liver, ])ound it and put it through a sieve. Peel the lemon, cut the inside, from which the ])ips must be removed, into very small dice- shaped ])icces. Add tlic lemon and liver to the melted butter. TIcat gently, but do not boil. Add the parsley 120Sauce Book I 129 Parsley Sauce Small bunch of parsley ^ pint melted butter Boil the parsley for five minutes. Drain. Chop finely, xidd to the melted butter. Ok, To one gill of water in which a fowl has been boiled, add one gill of cream, one dessert-spoon white ronx (see p. 12), seasoning and the boiled and chopped parsley. Sauce a la Reine 0 pint veal stock 4 Ib mushrooms Small bouquet of herbs 1 .an onion I pint cream Breast of a fowl Juice of half a lemon 1 tea-spoon flour Let the veal stock simmer for half-an-hour with the mushrooms, onion, and herbs. Then strain. Thicken with the flour. Boil two or three minutes. Add the boiling cream. Set back on the fire and add the finely pounded breast, lemon juice and seasoning. Do not allow the sauce to boil after the ehicken has been added.Soup and Sauce Book 130 White Sauce 1 gill veal or chicken stock 1 gill cream Juice of half a lemon Juice of half a Seville orange Mix all together. Heat gently, stirring con- tinually. Season.131 Hot Sauces for Game, etc. Cream Sauce Game Sauce German Sauce ^Tadeira Sauce Orange Sauce Sauce Poivrade Sour Cream Sauce . I'AGE 132 132 133 133 134 134 135132 Cream Sauce . The gravy from two roasted birds 1 gill cream Stir the cream into gravy of the birds with which it is to be served. Season. Add a few drops of lemon. Game Sauce 2 onions A bouquet of thyme, bay leaf and joarsley Several pieces of game 1 slice of liam 1 oz. of butter 4 table-spoons of Madeira 5 pint brown sauce (see p. 118) Cut the onions, ham and game into small pieces. Add to them the bouquet. Fry tlicni gently in the butter. Add the Madeira. Simmer twenty minutes. Add the sauce and simmer ten minutes. Pass tlirougli a sieve.Sauce Book German Sauce 5 pint rich brown stock 1 tea-spoon glaze Plieasant bones 12 mushrooms 1 glass white wine Break the pheasant bones. Add them to the stock. Simmer half-an-hour. Add the mush- rooms. Simmer till tender. Put through a sieve. Add glaze, seasoning and glass of wine. Madeira Sauce I onion 1 carrot ] bay leaf 2 cloves 1 slice ham 1 gill brown stock or gravy i pint brown sauce (see p. 118) 1 glass Madeira Cayenne Juice of half a lemon Slice the onion and carrot. Put them, with the bay leaf, clove and the ham, cut in small pieces, in a sauce-pan. Cover with the brown stock. J^oil lip (piickly. Simmer half-an-honr Season. Add Madeira, brown sauce and lemon juice. Bub through a tine sieve. Colour with i:i3The Soup and 134 caramel colouring (see p. 13) if not dark enough, and stir in the butter. Orange Sauce 2 Seville oranges 2 lemon 1 glass red wine 1 gill brown gravy 1 luini:) of sugar Grate the yellow part of the skin of one orange very finely. Add it to the brown gravy. Simmer a few minutes. Add the wine, the juice of two oranges and half a lemon, a little cayenne and the sugar. Serve with game or wild duck. Sauce Poivrade 1 oz. butter 2 onions 1 carrot 2 cloves 1 bay leaf 1 tea-spoon flour 1 glass red wine 1 glass water 1 table-spoon vinegar Melt the butter, add the onions and carrot sliced, the cloves, bay-leaf and Hour. CookSauce Book 135 until a good brown, then add the wine, water aTid vinegar. Boil half-an-hour. Strain, Season witli salt and whole pepper. Serve with game. Sour Cream Sauce 2 ozs. butter 2 yolks ot‘ eggs 1 table-spoon Hour 1 gill sour cream 1 gill brown stock A little nutmeg A few clroi)s of lemon juice Cook the butter and flour together, but do not brown. Take off the fire and add the yolks. When thoroughly mixed add the cream and stock, salt, nutmeg and lemon. Heat but do not boil. Pass through a tammy. Heat again without boiling.Cold Sauces PAGE Anchovy Butter ..... 137 Horse-radish Sauce . . . .137 Mayonnaise Sauce . . . .138 Mint Sauce . . . . .138 Sauce for Cold Fish . . . .139 Sauce Gaillarde ..... 139 Sauce Moutarde . . . . .140 Sauce llavigote . . . . .140 Sauce Beinoulade . . . .141 1301.37 Anchovy Butter 4 ozs. anchovies 6 ozs. butter Wash and dry the anchovies. Pound tlieni and put them through a sieve. Beat the butter to a cream and add to it the anchovies. Horse-radish Sauce 2 table-spoons grated horse-radish 1 tea-spoon mustard 1 dessert-spoon sugar 1 table-si)oon vinegar 2 table-spoons thick cream It is essential in making this sauce that tlie liorse-radish should be grated as fine as possible. Mix all together, adding the vinegar slowly, and the cream last of all.The Soup and 138 Mayonnaise Sauce 1 or 2 raw yolks of egg Olive oil Vinegar Put the yolk into a bowl and beat it slightly. Add the oil drop by drop, stirring eontiniially in one direction, and working it well against the sides of the bowl. AVhen the sauce becomes thick, the oil may be added more quickly. Con- tinue adding oil until sufficient sauce has been made. Add vinegar, salt, pepper to taste. This sauce should be made in a cold place and will take about fifteen minutes to make. Finely chopped tarragon, chervil and olives may be added to the mayonnaise. Mint Sauce 1 liandful of mint chopped 1 gill vinegar 2 table-spoons powdered or brown sugar Melt the sugar in the vinegar. Chop the mint verv fine. It cannot be too fine. Add it to the vinegar.Sauce Book 139 Sauce for Cold Fish 4 anchovies 3 yolks (hard boiled) 2 yolks (raw) 1 tea-spoon mustard Vinegar A little smoked salmon Clean, bone and pound the anchovies with the hard boiled e^rofs. Add the mustard and raw “O yolks, stirring all the time. Add vinegar and oil until you have a sufficient quantity of sauce, using three times as much oil as vinegar, and stirring continually and always in the same direction. Add salt, pepper and a little shredded smoked salmon. Sauce Gaillarde 2 hard boiled eggs 2 gherkins 4 small pickled onions A little tarragon and chervil Oil Abnegar Crush the yolks and add to them the whites, gherkins, onions, tarragon and chervil finely chopped. Add oil very slowly, turning con- tinually from left to right until the (Quantity of sauce required lias been made. Add one or two table-spoons of vinegar. Salt, pepper and a little mustard.The Soup and 140 Sauce Moutarde 2 hard boiled yolks 2 table-spoons olive oil 3 table-spoons vinegar 1 table-spoon mustard 1 small handful tarragon Crush the yolks and add to tlieiii the oil, salt, pe})per, vinegar and mustard. Stir well together. Chop the tarragon very finely. Add it to the sauce. Sauce Ravigote 2 hard boiled yolks 2 raw yolks 1 dessert-spoon mustard Tai'ragon, shallot, parsley, chives Capers, gherkins Oil Vinegar Pound and pass tlic liard boiled yolks through a sieve. Mix them thoroughly with the raw yolk and mustard. Add oil as for mayonnaise until the required quantity is made. Season. Add vinegar to taste and a little very finely chopped tarragon, shallot, parsley, and chives, dust before serving add a table-spoon ca})crs and chopped gherkins.Sauce Book 141 Sauce Reinoulade 1 hard boiled yolk 1 raw yolk 1 cotiee-spooii mustard 1 large table-spoon chopped shallots, parsley and chervil Oil Vinegar Put the hard boiled and raw yolk with the mustard in a basin. Mix tlioroiighly with a wooden spoon. Add tlie oil very slowly, stirring continually in one direction. The quantity of oil used depends on the quantity of sauce required. Add a large table-spoon of finely chopped parsley, chervil and shallots. A very little vinegar, salt and pepper. THE ENDIndex 143 Soups Artichoke iSoup, 35. 49 Asparagus, Puree of 01. Asparagus Soup, 35. Bain Marie, 110. Barley Broth, 87. Beef i^ssence, 95. Beef Tea,—I. 95. » „ n. 96. „ „ III. 96. Bisques, 78-80 Black Beans, Puree of, 02. Bouillabaisse, 82. Broad Beans, Puree of, 63. Broths, 87-92. Brown Bread Soup, 51. Brown Soup, 24. Brown Soup Stock, 7. Brunoise, 16. Calves’ Foot Broth, 97. Caramel Colouring, 13. Carrots, Puree of, 63. Carrot Soup, 42. Cauliflower Cream, 51. Cauliflower Souj), 36. Celery Cream, 43. Celery Soup, 36. Chestnut Soup, 37 Chicken Broth, 87. Cliicken Custard, 98. Chicken Panada, 99. Chicken Soup, 57. Chicken Stock, 9. Chicken Tea, 100. Clarify, How to, 4. Clear Brown Stock, 8. Clear Soups, 16-22. Clear Soup with Quenelles, rice, etc., 22. Cockie Leekie, 88. Colouring for Soups, 13, 105. Common Stock, 7. Consomme, 9. „ with poached eggs, 16. Crab Bisque, 78. Cream of Pearl 25. Barley, Cream of Bice, 25. j? 1) and Par- mesan, 52. Crofiteau Pot, 17. » „ „ Gratinee, 18.Index 144 CroAtons, 104. Cucunil)ei- Soup, 52. Custards, 104. Dutch Soup, 53. Economical Stock, 10. Endive, Puree of, 64. Fat, How to remove, 3. Fire, Care of, 1. Fish Soups, 82-85. Fish Soup, 83. Flemish Soup, 53. Forcemeat Balls, 105. Fowl, Puree of, 73. Fowl, Puree of, a la Heine i\Iargot, 73. Friar’s Chicken, 54. Game Broth, 89. Game Panada, 99. Game Soup, ik Giblet Soup, 26. Glaze, 14. Green colouring for Soujis, 105. Green Pea Soup, 37. Green Peas, Puree of—I., 65. Green Peas, Puree of—II., 65, Green Peas, Puree of. Dried, 66. Hare, Puree of, 74. Hare Soup, 27. Hotch Potch, 90. Imperial Soup, 19. Invalid Broths and Soups, 95-101. Italian Dried Gi'een Peas, Puree of, 66. Italian Macaroni Souj:), 54. Julienne, 20. Left-over Soup, 28. Lentils, Puree of, 67. Liaison of cream and eggs, Soups nuide with, 51-58. Lobster Bisque, 78. IMacaroni Soup (clear), 20. Macaroni Soup (Italian), 54. Macaroni Soup (Thick), 55. Meat Purees, 73-76. Mock Bisque, 44. Mock Turtle, 29. ^lulligatawny, 30. Mushroom Soup, 38. Mutton Broth, 100. Onions, Puree of, 68. Oxtail Soup, 31. Oyster Bisque, 79. Oyster Soup, 84. Pearl Bailey, Cream of, 25. Pheasant, Puree of, 75. Polish Soup, 39. Portuguese Soup, 44. Potato Balls, 106. „ Broth, 90. „ Cream, 45. „ Soup, 46. Purees of Meat, 73-76. Quenelles, 106, 107I ndex liABBJT, Puree of, 75. Pvice, 107. I vice Pvalls, 108. Rice, Cream of, 25. Rice, Puree of, 08. Pvice, Savoury, 108. Roux, 12.^ Russian Soup, 50. Salmon Soup, 84. Scotch Broth, 91. Seasoning-, 3. Sheep’s Head Broth, 92. vSorrel Soup, 40._ Spinach Colouring, 105. Spring Soup, 21. Stock, General Remarks, on, 1-5. Stocks, 7-11- Straining Soup, 4. Summer Soup, 47. Thickening for Soups, 12. Thick Soups, 24-33. Thick Vegetable- Soups made with Stock, 35- 39. Toiiiato Soup, 39. V) do Turkish Soup, 50. Tuiaiips, Puree of, 09. Veal Broth, 101. Veal Soup (White), 58. Veal Stock, 10. Vegetable Pui'ces, 01-09. Vegetable Soups made with Stock, 35-39. Vegetable Soups without Stock, 42-47. Venison Soup, 33. Vermicelli, 22. W.VTEE Cress Soup, 57. White Cliicken So,up, 57. White Veal Soup, 58. Winter Vegetables, Puree of^ 09. Sauces Anchovy Butter, 137. Anchovy Sauce, 114. Apple Sauce, 120. Bechamel, 120. Black Butter, 112. Bread Sauce, 127. Brown Sauce, 118. Celery Sauce, 127. Cold Sauces, 137-141. Cream Sauce, 132. K (jucuinber Sauce, 114. ,, „ 118' Cullis, 118. Dutch Sauce, 112. Egg Sauce, 114. Fish Sauces, 112-110. Game Sauce, 132. Genoese Sauce, 113.Index ■White Sauce, 130. Onion Sauce, 121. German Sauce, 133. Goosel)eriy Sauce, 128. Horse-radish Sauce (cold), 137. Horse-radish Sauce (Dutch), 119. Hot Sauces for Fowls, Ducks, etc., 126-130. Hot Sauces for Game 132-135. Hot Sauces for Boasts, 118-124. Italian Sauce, 113. Lemon Sauce, 128. Maitre d’Hotel Sauce, 114. 120 Mayonnaise Sauce, 138. Melted Butter, 114. Mint Sauce, 138. Mushroom Sauce, 121. Orange Sauce, 134. Oyster Sauce, 115. Parsley Sauce, 129. Sauce Bearnaise, 122. „ for Chops and Steaks, 122. Sauce for Cold Fish, 139. Sauce Gaillarde, 139. „ Hollaiidaise, 115. „ Moutarde, 140. „ Piquante au Citron, 123. Sauce Poivrade, 134. „ Bavigote, 140. „ a la Beine, 129. „ Bemoulade, 141. „ Bobert, 123. „ Vinaigrette, 124. Shrimp Sauce, 114. Sour Cream Sauce, 135 Tomato Sauce, 124.riaXTED BY TrnXBULL AND SPEABS, EDINBURGH