SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 119 {Reichert: Ocular 1, objective 8, X 330.) EXPLANATION OF THE PLATES. Plate 1.,figure 1 (to page 124, case 5).—Section through the innermost layers of a cyst formed around a glass splinter, silver-staining on the surface. Vertical section in A through the superficial cellular layer; in B hori- zontal section; in C the subjacent vascular fibrous tissue-layer not reached by the silver staining. {Reichert: Ocular 3, objective 8, X 500.) Plate TL., figure 2 (to page 125).—Vertical section through the connective tissue canal around a steel needle. Internally, numerous large cells with an ex- tremely scanty, delicately fibrillated interstitial substance, vascular connective tissue beneath; externally, many layers of scantily vascularised, concentric- ally arranged fibrous tissue, in which large quantities of brown pigment are imbedded. {Reichert: Ocular 1, objective 1, X 20.) Figure 3.—The internal layers of the former preparation (fig. 2). {Reichert: Ocular 3, objective 5, X 170.) Figure i (to page 132, case 16).—Glass-wool healed-in in the muscles of a rabbit. Section through the interior of the glass-wool pellet, showing glass-fibres, a rich vascular network, large cells and scanty fibrous tissue; reddish-brown pigment in the large cells as well as on the glass fibres. {Reichert: Ocular 3, objective 5, X 170.) Figure 5 (to page 125, case 6).—Vertical section of the inner layers of a capsule of connective tissue around a glass splinter, of more recent origin than that seen in fig. 1. {Reichert: Ocular 3, objective 5, X 170.) Plate ni. shows representations of case 9 (pages 127 and 128). Figure 6.—The hand of the patient. The skin over the cyst between the ball of the thumb and the palmar aspect of the hand is divided in order to show the smooth external wall of the cyst. Figure 7.—The cyst hardened in alcohol, natural size ; its interior wall has been cut away in order to show the inner surface. Figure 8.—The piece of lead, natural size. Figure 9.—A diagonal section through the innermost layers of the cyst-wall. Above the structureless innermost layer; downwards large uni- and multi- nucleated cells, the interstitial tissue of which is faintly stained with silver. (The horizontal section of the uppermost cellular stratum of this layer is represented in fig. 10.) In the drawing below, vascular irregular fibrous tissue is shown, whilst the numerous layers of concentrically arranged con- nective tissue externally to the former are not represented.