TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 349 pli3^siological properties of the spinal cord, and the nature of the morbid processes which we wish to influence. We must be as clear in our views as possible in regard to what we really can do before making our choice of the means of doing it. The question as to how far pathological changes in the spinal cord can regress is yet to a great extent unsolved. The difS- culties which the investigator has to contend with makes this only too conceivable. I shall endeavour in what follows to sketch the present position of the question as shortly as possible, and in doing so will bring out plainly enough the scanty character of our knowledge. Morbid changes in the spinal cord are still divided into the two classes of impalpable and palpable or structural. Impalpable changes, that is, such as cannot be discovered by our present means of investigation, must be assumed to be present in a number of aflections. Among these are, first of all, spinal neurasthenia, then many cases of hysterical paralysis and concussion of the spinal cord, cases of hysterical paraplegia, probably also the cases of intermittent spinal paralysis, and many cases of toxic paralysis. All these lesions, though likely enough very different from one another, have this in common, that in the great majority of cases complete recovery from them may be attained, though no doubt, as in neurasthenia, they sometimes prove very obstinate, and, as in concussion of the cord, may change apparently into coarse structural lesions. Several experimenters have worked at the question whether we can have anatomical and functional compensation in such lesions of the cord as incised wounds or loss of substance. Heini'ich Miiller^ worked with cold-blooded animals, Masius and Vanlair* and Brown-Sequard^ with pigeons and guinea-pigs, riourens^ with rabbits, Eichhorst and Naunyn'^, Dentan^, Schie- ferdecker^, and Eichhorst in a second series of experiments, with dogs. Though these experiments by no means agree with one another in all their details, yet their general result puts it beyond a doubt that the spinal cord, both in cold- and warm- blooded animals, possesses the power, within certain limits, of producing both structural and functional compensation in the case of incised wounds and loss of substance. They have further shown, however, that the extent to which this power is possessed varies very much, not only among different genera, but among