360 LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE who dress in the hottest summer months in flannel and felt shoes to keep themselves properly warm; also in wasted and anasmic individuals, and in those who have been spoiled by too much tender care. For these classes thermal baths and weak brine baths are particularly suitable. The warmer thermal baths are said to do especially good service in the various forms of meningitis where the substance of the cord is not much affected. But further trustworthy observations are desirable on this point. The stronger brine baths and the thermal brine baths are indicated in scrofulous constitutions, and the spinal affections associated with diseases of the bones, and in the exudative forms of meningitis, where we may look for absorption of the exudation from any stimulus given to the tissue-metabolism. The thermal brine baths (especially those of Rehme-Oeynhausen) go very well along with hydropathy in various other spinal affections, especially sclerosis of the posterior columns. Sulphur baths do very well in the lesions which follow syphilis when associated with other distinct evidences of the continuance of the infection. Nobody now says that these baths have any specific effect on syphilis; even the physicians themselves (Reumont, &c.) at sulphur spas merely rely on their beneficial influence on the skin as a valuable aid to an anti-syphilitic course. This influence, however, undoubtedly belongs to other kinds of baths also ; the fact that the physicians at these spas insist on particular routine courses in their treatment of syphilis appears to me to be much more important. Chalybeate baths are indicated in anasmic and reduced conditions, but only when the morbid process is rather a slow-going one, and in patients who are not in a nervous condition. For patients who are, or who show marked evidence of spinal irritation, the stimulating effect of the carbonic acid in the chalybeate waters renders their use un- desirable. We have at present no very precise indications for the use of the carbonic acid waters in baths, and the same may be said of mud and peat baths. A number of other points have to be taken into consideration in coming to a conclusion about a course of baths. Patients with disease of the cord do not bear the exertions of a long journey very well, and tliis is especially the case if the disease is advanced. They should not therefore be sent to spas far from their own homes, or the journey to which is difficult. Little