TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 363 of circumscribed lesions, while the latter with the current passing longitudinally is chiefly used in the so-called systemic diseases, in which the lesion is distributed in the longitudinal direction of the cord. One pole is applied to the neck and the other to the lumbar spine, and while the one is stationary the other is moved slowly along and brought nearer the first. But even in circum- scribed lesions it is advantageous to make use sometimes of the longitudinal current, with one pole moving along the neck, and the other stationary at the seat of disease; also a horizontal current, or one that is approximately horizontal, may be used in longitudinal lesions, one pole being stationary on the front of the body and the other moved along the spine. The latter pole is moved about the breadth of the electrode at a time, and is kept at each spot for from twenty to forty seconds. The direction of the current with this method is, according to many authorities who speak with great confidence on the subject, a matter of no consequence ; others speak with less assurance, and acknowledge that in certain respects it might not be quite a matter of indifference where the positive pole was applied, and where the negative. It would take me too far if I were to go fully into the whole matter, and I must content myself with stating shortly my own views, which are based on experimental investi- gation and clinical study. The statement that the direction of the current is of no consequence if meant to be of general application is correct neither for the horizontal nor for the longitudinal current, though it must be acknowledged that in many cases it is a matter of in- difference in treatment. When the current is used longitudinally with one electrode applied to the neck, the ascending current should be first tried if the case is recent, and there is probably hypersemia of the cord; that is, the negative pole should be applied to the neck, and the positive pole below. In older cases, and especially if there are no symptoms of irritation of the roots, the descending current. With the horizontal current the anode alone is to be applied to the back, especially if there is anything pointing to a condition of irritation of the posterior roots, such as pain or girdle-constriction.* * Compare in this connection my " Investigations in the Electro-therapeutics of the Spinal Cord," Munich, J. A. Finsterlein, 1883, pp. 7, 28, and particularly 60—66.