HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 170 testicles or their secretion lias only rarely been noted. In females, sterility and abortion frequently occur. Under treatment, sexual power may return. It is but seldom that increase of sexual power with, erection and emission, has been observed. Albuminuria, that at times accompanies diabetes, is of no serious import. It is not connected with any textural change in the kidneys, for pus, blood, and casts are absent from the urine, nor is it constant, often disappearing for some time. Finally, it is of no importance as regards the loss of nitrogen the body suffers from, as the percentage never exceeds yo P®^ cent., and this waste of albumen is amply compensated for by the increased meat diet. Some regard albuminuria as a consequence of the exalted function of the kidneys, which are generally found enlarged post mortem, others as the result of swelling and fatty degeneration of the renal epithelium. Naturally, albuminuria is important in those exceptional cases of diabetes which are complicated by granular contracted kidneys (Briglit's disease). Changes in the organs of sense. Of these, the eye is most frequently involved. Either visual power suffers (amblyopia), or accommodation becomes weakened at an earlier period than usual. Many patients even are compelled to resort to correction lenses when they are between 30 and 40 years of age. Palsy of the sixth nerve (abducens, external rectus) occurs very seldom, and still seldomer of the other ocular muscles. Cataract is of most frequent occurrence, and one eye usually loses its sight long before the other. From statistics of a large number of cases compiled by various authors, the average percentage of cataracts due to diabetes varies from 6 to 7 per cent. The cataract which begins at the periphery of the lens often remains stationary for a long period. With improvement in the disease, i.e., disappearance of sugar, complete involution of the cataract may actually take place and cloudy areas clear up. Amblyopia and paresis of accommodation may likewise improve. Retinitis diabetica is not so frequent, but all the more characteristic when present; ophthalmoscopically it very much resembles Retinitis albuminurica. It oftens happens that the ophthalmic surgeon is the very first to have the urine tested for