ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA 58 such an extent should at last revolt? What is become of Kant's golden rule of life, which allots to man eight hours out of the twenty-four for work, eight for recreation, and eight for sleep ? It may still prevail among officials who confine them- selves strictly to their allotted work-time, and when it is over have no further need to tax the brain. But these are just the cases in which we do not meet with neurasthenia. In addition to the damage resulting from an exhausting application to busi- ness, from a mayhap joyless family life, from financial difficulties, we find debilitation of the nervous system very largely brought about by abuse of spirits, of morphia, and by sexual excesses. It is above all the concentrated forms of alcoholic liquor which weaken the nervous system, diminish thinking power and memory, and at last totally destroy the whole organism. It is quite true that intellectual energy may be momentarily increased by alco- holic indulgence, nay, excited to a considerable degree of func- tional activity. As time goes on, however, the reaction of the brain to alcohol gradually lessens, and it comes to depend exclu- sively on external matters, above all on the kind of alcoholic beverage indulged in, how long the organism will resist. Some constitutions hold out long; others, on the contrary, succumb just as quickly. Still worse are the effects of morphia, because the habit quickly leads to rapid increase in the dose, and the injections are required more and more frequently in order to calm the nervous system and restore its functional activity. The tortures of the morphia- neurasthenic are augmented by the fact that although he fully appreciates the injurious effects of the drug, he cannot withstand his craving for it, and thus hi,s life becomes a continuous struggle with his own conscience. Of especial pathogenetic significance are sexual excesses, par- ticularly in adolescents—above all the over-stimulation produced by masturbation, with its consequences, impotence, sperma- torrhoea, &c. Excessive sexual intercourse in the natural way, e.g., among young married couples, certainly leads but seldom to nervous debilitation in the absence of other determining causes. Depression of energy, both intellectual and psychical, is on the contrary very frequent among onanists. They become incapable of continuous mental exertion, their memory seems weakened, their energy extinguished. These conditions are