PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 343 For instance, a young man comes to us astat. 18, who lias been suffering from birth from enuresis, which with the growth of the body has decreased without quite disappearing. Gradually, without any apparent external cause, it becomes again frequent; other nervous symptoms are noticed, e.g., irritable disposition, heavy leaden sleep, difficulty of waking in the morning, and oppression of the head. Examination of the urine yields the above-mentioned results. We can be almost, absolutely certain of our conclusion without any admission on the part of the patient —chronic inflammatory irritability of the prostatic urethra due to masturbation, and as a result of the former, aggravation of incontinence and manifestation of neurasthenia. Treatment.—As regards the general treatment I shall not enter into particulars, for these measures are well-known (e.g., easily digestible nourishment, and avoidance of fluid as much as possible, especially towards evening, prohibition of feather bedding, and methodical bathing). All these measures, including hypnotism, most recently recom- mended, are of no influence in such severe and obstinate cases as we have described. Local treatment only is of service. Sir Henry Thompson Diseases of the Urinary Passages") states, after having mentioned the various remedies and modes of treatment, " if these have no effect, then in those patients who are either a]3proaching, or have passed, puberty, instillation of a 2 per cent, solution of nitrate of silver may be used to the pros- tatic portion of the urethra. The strength of the solution may be subsequently increased if necessary. In the case of boys, the introduction of a soft bougie every second or third day, and leaving it in the urethra for two or three minutes, as a rule is sufficient." Although Sir Henry Thompson does not mention in which class of cases the above treatment is indicated, in my experience it is just in such patients I have here described, where a chronic inflammatory irritation of the prostatic portion of the urethra is the cause of all the trouble. My treatment of these cases consists as a rule in the use of full-sized metallic bougies. These are introduced two or three times a week, sometimes even daily, and allowed to remain in the urethra from three to five or seven minutes.