LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE 366 treatment. Third, cceteris paribus, old stationary cases give a surer basis for an estimate of effects than recent cases. With a careful regard for these conditions, my own experience allows me to say that in organic spinal affections current- densities of ^ should be employed ; a density of 5m^,„.. is about the average. It is well always, liowever, to begin with lower densities than these, and to rise gradually; if there are well-marked symptoms of irritation present we should keep by the lower densities.* The duration of the sitting also in recent years has been very generally shortened. While formerly it extended frequently to ten or even fifteen minutes, there are few physicians now who let it last beyond five minutes, and many will not go beyond three. I think that, as fair averages, from four to five minutes for the whole cord, and one and a half to three minutes for any portion, will be found satisfactory; at the same time these figures must only be worked up to gradually. The necessity of being provided with a galvanometer does not now-a-days stand in need of argument. We get no trustworthy standard to go by, or almost none, from the patient's sensations. Measuring the current by the number of elements used is just of as little value, because the electrical conductivity over the back varies very much, not only in different individuals, but also in different parts of the back in the same individual; besides, the activity of most of the elements usually employed is anything but a constant quantity. The induced current also is extensively employed in these spinal diseases. It is much less suitable for the direct treat- ment of the cord than the continued current, and it is recom- * There is still considerable difference of opinion about the cnrrent-densities whicli may be used in disease of the cord. I should like to draw attention to the fact which has been brought out by Stintzing's*' investigations, that the current- density necessary to obtain a certain effect at some distance from the surface of the body varies inversely as the transverse section of the electrode. The current-density is therefore not the same in its effects on the spinal cord as j'g, as C. W. Mtiller and Lewandowsky assume; it is greater than the latter, though it does not admit of precise valuation. jN^or can we assume that with a given current-density, say the current-density in the spinal cord will always be the same. The vertebrte and soft parts surrounding them, like the skin, maj- be different in different persons in respect of electrical conductivity, and in one case a current of may give the same current-density in the cord as is given in another case by a current of It is useful to keep ourselves familiar with these facts in order not to fall into any great delusions about the precision with which we measure our currents.