AND ITS TREATMENT. seriously as tliey are made ; also against exhibiting digitalis and other cardiac drugs in cardiac neurasthenia with arhythnna and tachycardia. If the attacks are severe a weak galvanic current may be steadily applied to the heart several tunes daily, it often produces an excellent result, as do also the bromides. I would also warn you against purgatives m general, and especially against their regular administration. Tonics, es- pecially bitters with a weak cathartic action (e.g., tmct. rhei vinos , with tinct. chinas comp. or elixir aurantior. comp. aa a teaspoonful several times daily), may be occasionally effectual. ■ External applications, especially the so-called revulsives, are sometimes not to be avoided absolutely, but they exercise usual y a very slight and temporary effect. They are properly suitable only for very intense and sharply localised neuralgias, especially rachialo-ia. Violently irritating applications, blisters, and even the actual cautery, applied by means of Paquelin's method, act indeed rather by terrifying or punishing the patient than as curative agents. Very beneficial, on the contrary, are external applications ot heat and cold according to the particular indication, whether in the form of rubber bags, which can be carried about and applied, more especially along the spinal column, or as hot or cold jet- douches, which are especially applied to the back, or finally as the so-called " Scottish douche," i.e., alternating small hot and cold water jets, each to be continued for eight to ten seconds, and the whole procedure to last from eight to ten minutes. The continuous change of temperature with the constant stimulation is greatly praised by many nervous dyspeptics for its beneficial effects on their digestive troubles and appetite. To conclude now with the diet. Here it is difficult to lay down general rules, because the indications may be different m each case. For this very reason it is only in relatively few cases that value can be ascribed to so regular a course as is prescribed in the Weir-Mitchell treatment, as milk more especially is absolutely intolerable to many persons. Neverthe- less the prescriptions of Weir-Mitchell are valuable as showing what quantities of food may be introduced into a stomach almost unaccustomed to nourishment, and what favourable effects on the general body-nutrition and towards strengthening the constitu- tion may thereby be attained. I can heartily recommend to you