358 LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE thermal waters, the patients became worse either during the treatment or immediately after.* A change was certainly called for, and this necessarily led to a reconciliation of the opposition between these two methods. One form of hydro-therapeutic treatment that is widely used at present, and that can be warmly recommended, is in the form of the so-called half-baths, given at a temperature of 86° Fahr. and imder. Friction of the skin is used at the same time with great advantage, as it facilitates reaction while the patient is in the bath ; in certain circumstances massage of the limbs may also be used. At the end of the bath I have often, with great benefit, employed the pail-douche over the back, with water 3° to 4° lower in temperatu.re than that of the bath. It must be poured on slowly from no great height, and the quantity must be exactly prescribed—one or two pailfuls at the outside. In using the wash-down the temperature of the water may be one or two degrees lower than the lowest permissible limit in the bath; yet care must be taken that too great energy is not employed in this procedure. Wet packs must not be kept on after the patient is sufficiently heated up, and must be followed by a wash-dovm at the same temperature as the pack, or by a half-bath of short duration. For the class of diseases we are now discussing the cold douche is inadmissible. We have become almost all over much more cautious lately ni regard to the duration of baths, as well as in regard to their temperature. Here again bad results have played the school- master. Winternitz recommends for half-baths at 86° and under a duration of 6 to 10 minutes. In the last year or two I have been accustomed to order half-baths to be of never more than 6 minutes' duration—on an average, about 5. It is a good plan to make the duration short in proportion as the temperature is low. The wash-down should only take up a very short time, half, one, or one and a half minutes. At the "indifferent" thermal spas also they have become converted to the use of baths of very brief duration. V. Eenz" (Wildbad) speaks of a * Among 22 cases of chronic myelitis treated by liot batlis that Erb bad under observation, there were 12 in whom this treatment (at Wildbad, Teplitz and elsewhere) proved distinctly hurtful, and 7 in whom it had no effect at all. Only 3 cases improved, and in 2 of these the water was cooled down for the bath, the patients wore kept in for only a short time, and only a limited number of baths were given. Facta loquuntur.