BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 34 its disintegration will be complete ; it will be incapsulated like a foreign body by tlie conversion of the granulation tissue into cicatricial tissue (provided that no pus cocci intervene and change the tubercle into a tuberculous abscess or into a tuberculous ulcer). To this I have still to add that the disintegration of the tubercle by no means always takes place. There are (though very rare) cases in which the endothelial cells^—probably when the irritation set up by only a few bacilli with but feeble vege- tative energy—are directly converted into firm connective tissue without previous disintegration. The ''fibrous tubercle " formed in this manner, which especially is occasionally observed in the cervical and axillary glands, contains, as 1 have only recently had an opportunity of convincing myself, no detritus, and does not represent anything like a firm capsule around the disinte- grated tubercles, but is throughout purely fibrous. I now feel convinced that those forms of fibrous malignant lymphoma which had been investigated in my clinic and described by von Wini- ivarter, and which are so very differently constructed fi-om the soft malignant lymphoma which partially disappears under arsenical treatment, are a bacillary, genuine tubercle disease. These investigations ought to be repeated from this new point of view. The question now arises, as regards the common form of the centrally disintegrated tubercle. By ivJiat hind of stimulus is^ the granulation tissue loroduced ivhich luxuriates around it ? We might here, in the first place, suppose that the disturbance of continuity and 'the gradually increasing pressure of the growing tubercle act as formative stimulants. We know that a gradual new formation of tolerably dense membrane of connective tissue takes place around a slowly growing cysticercus, around trichini, and around ecchinococcus cysts. We know that some cyst walls consist of entirely new formed membrane. We further know that the tunica vaginalis around the fluid of hydrocele frequently becomes extremely thickened by new formation of connective tissue, that moderately dense membrane develops around the fat enclosed in sebaceous glands (atheroma), and also in the fomia- tion of ranula a similar membrane forms around the retained mucus-like saliva. In all these cases both pressure and dis- turbance of continuity are undoubtedly, although slowly and