LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 39 chancre shows a certain analogy with glandera, the hard chancre partly with the slowly vegetating tubercle prone to disintegration, and in its later stages to the fibrous tubercle. The luxuriation in and around the syphilomas is very variable ; in bones there is a disposition to necrotic caries both in syphiloma and in tubercle. Every experienced surgeon knows how difficult it sometimes is to distinguish between Tuberculosis, Syphilis, Rhinoscleroma, and Lepra (Carcinomatosis) in their products. It is generally agreed that the gonorrhoea-cocci exert no formative stimulus and produce no phlegmonous process. The of iron. This preparation, which shows the bacilli in red colour, may be stained a second time with any optional contrast colour. For sections preparations Gottstein's modification of Giacomi's method will be found particularly suitable ; the sections stained with fuchsine for twenty-four hours, after having washed with water and placed for a few seconds in a diluted solution of perchloride of iron, are again washed with alcohol, rendered trans- parent by oil of cloves or xylol, and preserved in Canada balsam. DoutreUpont has demonstrated the same bacilli in syphilitic tissues independently of Lustgarten by a different method of staining; treatment for twenty-four to forty-eight hours with an aqueous solution of gentian violet, discolouration during a few seconds in a mixture of one part of nitric acid and fifteen parts of water, and after that for five to ten minutes in sixty per cent, alcohol; second staining in an aqueous solution of saffron, washing again with sixty per cent, alcohol, discolouration in absolute alcohol, rendering transparent in oil of cedar and preservation in Canada balsam. Controlling examinations by a number of other investigators {Matterstock, Kl&nperer, Goltstein, Marcuse, Lewy, ^c.) proved the constant presence of these bacilli in all syphilitic secretions and in every tissue affected by syphilis, so that, supported by these confirming evidences, Lustgarten, Weigert, and Doutrelepont regard these bacilli as the agent of the syphilitic poison ; cultures of, and inocu- lations with, them have however not yet succeeded. Soon afterwards nevertheless Alvarez and Tavel conjointedly, and MaUerstock working independently, discovered a bacillus so much like the sjTphilis bacillus, in the prffipiitial smegma, in the secretions of the mucous membrane of the female genitals and also at the anus of healthy people, that many investigators consider these as identical with the smegma bacillus. The syphilis bacilli, however, acording to Leivy, lie mostly on the epithelium, and only occur singly and exposed on the surface; they are but rarely observed in larger groups. The smegma bacilli, on the contrary, are found upon, or in dose connection loith, the epithelium. They frequently occur in larger groups, but are also found in great number outside the epithelium. The syphilis bacilli present mostly slender, straight, or curved rods ; the smegma bacilli are smaller, plumper rods, and in general show a much greater variety of form. Whilst the syphilis bacilli resist the alcohol tolerably long, the smegma bacilli are soon discoloured by it. Acids discolour the syphilis bacilli within thirty to forty-five seconds; the smegma bacilli frequently withstand acids for two minutes and longer. The syphilis bacilli are almost immediately discoloured by glacial acetic acid, and the smegma bacilli withstand glacial acetic acid up to twenty-five seconds. The syphilis bacilli are the more numerous the younger the infiltration, the smegma bacilli, on the contrary, are the more numerous the longer the secretion had been accumiilating.