180 IIOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. order to get rid of any remaining carbonic acid; any water of evaporation is retained by the sulphuric acid. The apparatus is then weighed, and the loss of weight corresponds to the amount of carbonic acid evolved—48'89 parts by weight of carbonic acid being equivalent to 100 parts by weight of grape sugar. Errors of this method: formation of a small amount of glycerine and succinic acid from the sugar, and possible evolu- tion of carbonic acid from the yeast. Both these methods, which occupy a considerable amount of time and require great precaution so as to yield satisfactory results, are only suited for scientific research. In general prac- tice, the polarisation method meets all the requirements of easy and rapid execution and sufficient exactness. 3. Determination by the polariscope.—This method depends upon the property of grape sugar deflecting the plane of polarised light to the right. The production of polarised light by means of a Nicol's prism, is common to every apparatus. A second one is so placed that every possible rotation is com- pensated and the so-called normal state is created. Any changes from the normal state caused by a saccharine solution of a certain thickness (usually one or two dcm.) are counterbalanced by a corresponding rotation of the second prism. When the apparatus is set, the index points to 0 or the scale, and when rotated, the index, moves (up to 50 or over). • The usual instruments are :—• 1. Mitcherlich's older apparatus.—Normal state: field of vision, in homogeneous light, dark, the ray, in daylight purple.-violet. Change: field of vision, at first bright, then coloured. Calculation, jp = ~yWo^ where p — percentage, a = the indicated rotation, a = specific rotatory power of grape sugar, Z = length of tube. 2. Soleil-Ventzke's saccharim eter.—Normal state : field of vision, both halves coloured the same. Change: dissimilar colouration. Calculation: each division of the scale indicated 1 per cent., i.e., 1 gram of sugar in 100 ccm. of fiuid. 3. Laurent's half-shadow apparatus.—Normal state: field of vision, both halves equally bright. Changa: unequally bright. Calculation: each degree = 1 per cent, of sugar, if l — \ dcm. 4.. Wild-Savart's Polaristrobometer.—Normal state: