LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 41 animal tissues, I now shall consider vhether animal cells are able to ad in a similar manner upon the vegetable tissue. It is known that there are not only saprophyti, but also specific pathogenic fungi, which attack and eventually destroy plants of complicated structure, that the moulds or mildeiv fungi and the more highly organised algoi may be again destroyed by microbes which on their part are to be classified with the sapro- phytic and pathogenic series. It must be left an open question whether there are processes in plants which according to their nature can be compared with the inflammatory processes in animal tissues. The condition which is called by phytopatho- logists ''Frost-gangrene" (^'Frost-brand'') and "canker of the trees'' (apple-trees and beeches) may also partly belong to this class. There is much probability in favour of the view that these processes are brought about partly by a fungus, a Pyromycetes (Nedaria ditissima), partly by the apple aphis or American blight (" Blutlaus," Schizoneura lanigera Hausm.). We shall now only occupy ourselves with observations on the formative irritabilitij of vegetable cells. My previous remarks on copulation and fertilisation as formative stimuli, having already referred to vegetable cells, need therefore no repetition. In the plants also separation of continuity acts as a powerful formative stimulus. It is followed by new formation of tissue, cicatrization, formation of callus (" Uberwallung ") with or with- out necrosis, and eventually leads to the union of two opposite wound-surfaces. The improvement in the quality of fruit-trees, of roses, &c., by budding or grafting is brought about by this process. The tissue of the so-called " callus " (" Uberwallung ") as it forms, e.g., after the lopping of the branches, is the so-called "■corhij layer" Periderma") which proceeds from the paren- chyma of the bark, of the cambium, and of the pith, and might be compared with the granulation tissue in animals. The formative stimulus of the separation of continuity in plants, is, under certain circumstances, particularly increased. New plant individuals can be raised from parts of plants ; multi- plication by layering, cuttings, or slips. When a boy, I watched with the keenest interest a cutting of a damask rose placed in a phial of water in which the lower border of the section gradu- ally thickened and finally put forth delicate white adventitious roots (radicles). Moreover, in many plants a new plant may be