13 LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. phenomena which had been brouglit to our knowledge by the latest investigations as regards the etiology of inflammation ? The alterations which tissues undergo in acute inflammation are fairly known. We are acquainted with the inflammations of surfaces, as acute catan'hs, as hlennorrhoeas, in which the white blood corpuscles emigrate in masses from the blood-vessels, the epithelium more rapidly exfoliates, the vessels become larger, and the glands more copiously secrete. We know the croupous inflammations, in which fibrine forms on the surface of membranes. We know the diphtheritic inflammations, in which the formation of superficial fibrinous membranes is associated with coagulation of the tissue fluids; this coagulation again partially resolves, but may also lead to necrosis of the whole affected tissue. We like- wise know the phlegmonous process, which rarely resolves without suppuration, frequently terminates in coagulation of the tissue fluids, in partial necrosis of the connective tissue with formation of abscesses, sometimes also in gangrene of the skin, in which after the arrest a process of regeneration follows, which finally ends in cicatrisation. Formerly the causes of these processes had barely been ex- plained. Now we know that they always are called forth by microbes, and almost exclusively by cocci, which either immigrate from the outside (the diphtheria cocci also through the hair-bulbs in the uninjured skin) or from the blood (where they may be present in infinitesimal numbers), and sometimes enter-into the previously injured or diseased tissues, but may also enter into perfectly healthy tissues (spontaneous osteo-myelitis). But what seems to me most 'remarkable is the fact that these conditions,which we hitherto have generally considered as different degrees of one and the same process, are caused by entirely different kinds, although morphologically related genera, of cocci. Thus we have the Blennorrhoeal (gonorrhoea) coccus, which merely produces the egress of leucocytes accompanied by slight hypertemia, but never leads to parenchymatous processes. Further, we have the coccus of pneumonia and diphtheria, which sets up inflammation with formation of fibrine. We have the very frequent Staphijlo- coccuspyogenes aureus, which engenders the majority of phlegmons and abscesses and endocarditis. We have the Staphylococcus pyogenes alhus, which, forming a milky-white pulp, corrodes the tissues; tlie Streptococcus pyogenes, whicli more frequently is -met