167 hofmp:ister on diabetes mellitus. Emaciation progresses continually as long as a compensating diet is not followed, or if tlie disease is not held in check. In my experience, this symptom is one of the earliest and most constant. I well remember a patient, male, ffitat. 46, well nourished, whose case I very carefully observed. The only symptom he complained of, was a small but continual decrease in weight during the previous two years. No cause for this loss of flesh could be at all discovered. From time to time traces of suo-ar were said to have been found in the urine, treatment there- fore could only be of an expectant nature. As he was in good circumstances, he retired from business, lived free from anxiety, and was only concerned about attaining his former weight. He consulted several leading physicians in Germany, no diagnosis could be made. Suddenly, after a very severe mental shock, thirst and polyuria appeared, and immediately the very first examination of the urine showed 3'5 per cent, of sugar, 4. Languor. In contrast to healthy persons, who only feel tired after heavy muscular exertion, the diabetic feels weakest and most languid in the morning, even after an undisturbed night's rest. In the course of the day, the languor may disappear, but there is a disinclination for the usual daily occupation, or even for simple outdoor exercise. Slight muscular exertion tires him sooner than formerly. These symptoms are complained of, even at a period when there can be no question of emaciation or muscular atrophy. They are said by certain authors to depend upon an accumulation of the so-called fatigue substances (waste- products : lactic acid, &c.) in the muscles owing to deficient oxidation. However, they may preferably be referred to disturb- ance of the regions supplied by the nerves of sensation of the muscles similar to that affecting other nerve-territories, which so frequently happens in diabetes. All the remaining symptoms, of which a short description will be given, belong more or less to the later and last stages of the disease, and many of these may be regarded as sequelae rather than manifestations of diabetes. Once more emphasis must be laid upon the fact that, with the exception of sugar in the urine after carbo-hydrates, there is no single symptom which is constantly present. As regards the symptoms presented by the alimentary tract, those of the buccal cavity are most characteristic. The