ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 261 in which there is little else than fat, while the original volume is either maintained or exceeded. On the other hand, the results of the examination of the nervous system have, up to the present, been almost wholly negative. Leaving out of account Lichtheim's case and the older cases of pseudo-hypertrophy, we have had recently a series of exact records from Fr. Schultze, Landouzy, Dejerine, P. Marie, Dreschfeld, Westphal, and Singer, and neither in the spinal cord nor in the peripheral nerves have any noticeable changes been observed. In accordance with these records, we should be entitled to view this dystrophy as a disease limited to the muscle-substance, and as a truly primary myopathy, were it not that some facts have come out which warn us to exercise great caution in this direction. Heubner's case deserves special mention. Though an undoubted case of dystrophy, he found there was extensive atrophy of the large cells in the anterior horns of grey matter. Frohmaier has a similar case wdth the changes in it less marked. In this new light the more trifling alterations observed by Singer and the older observations in pseudo-hj'pertrophic cases of L. Clarke, Gowers, Kesteven, Bramwell, and J. Eoss, gain a certain significance. But in the meantime we must say this, that in progressive muscular dystrophy in its various forms, the nervous system must be considered to be, as a rule, and for our present methods of investigation, normal. This is the place in which to say a little about the proper nature, pathogenesis, and exact seat of the lesion. It is not necessary to prove further that it is neither a simple atrophy of the muscles nor an inflammatory affection with its consequences ; there is unquestionably a more complicated disturbance of nutrition, regarding the nature of which, for the present, I would rather not express a definite opinion. Pathological anatomy has led many to consider it simply as a local muscular affection, quite independent of the central nervous system, a pure myopathy. But a good deal of doubt has been expressed (for example, by Knoll 2*) regarding this view, and I myself, in my earlier work, brought forward some reasons which prevented me from accepting it without more inquiry. A much larger experience, a good deal of con- sideration given to the subject, and most of all the results