PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 337 inquiry the patient confessed that he had been suffering from senainal emissions at night in consequence of masturbation, and that even during the day they often occurred at erotic thoughts, or with mere friction of the trousers. He commenced masturba- tion when eleven years of age, and since then nocturnal incon- tinence had become much more frequent. Treatment consisted in the application of the Psychrophor.* After the first introduc- tion the following night was passed without wetting the bed. Progress became quite marked, and up to Christmas relapses Avere quite exceptional. From the 1st of January to the end of March nocturnal incontinence occurred but once, and the patient then ceased to be under my care. At the same time his general health greatly improved, the heavy leaden sleep disappeared, he was able to rise at once in the morning and felt cheerful. His intellectual powers improved, he learnt his lessons more easily and willingly, and his shy and depressed manner completely passed away. In the course of six months, having resumed the ordinary habits of life, taking beer and wine, nocturnal incon- tinence and seminal emissions returned. Local treatment was again carried out, and now the patient is permanently cured. Case IV.—B., setat. 18, in the book-binding trade, had been addicted to wetting the bed every night, and suffered from fre- quent micturition during the day. As he was obliged to earn his living amongst strangers, he would give anything to be rid of his troublesome affection. Father and mother healthy. Two brothers up to the age of eighteen were also troubled with noctuiTial incontinence, otherwise they were strong and healthy. The patient was said to have been a strong child, but from the very first suffered from enuresis, which considerably lessened in frequency up to his twelfth year, so that he wetted the bed not more than once or twice a week. About this time B. was taught to masturbate, and practiced it for a year or so. As, however, ho noticed that nocturnal incontinence was getting more frequent, he gave up the bad habit. In spite of this step, seminal emissions began to occur when he was fourteen, and later on even in the daytime, especially during any powerful muscular exertion (circling the bar and other gymnastic exer- * Psychrophor {^vxpoi cold, and <!>^pi-> I bear), an instrument for applying cold to the nrethra.—Translator. Z