HOFMEISTKR ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 165 SYMPTOiMS. The first disturbance of health the patient experiences is generally so trifling, and connected^with so little discomfort, thai it is either ignored by him or misinterpreted by his physician. Even should the latter consider it necessary to examine the urine, the small quantity of sugar that may be present is easily overlooked in employing the usual tests (Heller's or Trommer's). It is only when symptoms persist in spite of treatment for months, when fresh ones arise, and troablesome or even painful sensations appear, in which case the urine contains a larger quantity of sugar, that the " surprising discovery" is made. In but a very few cases is the physician led deductively to the probable diagnosis of " diabetes." It is only when careful examination of the urine is made as much a matter of course even in trivial ailments, as feeling the pulse, inspection of the tongue, and pal- pation of the painful region, or even as frequently as thorough percussion and auscultation, that it will be possible to escape from committing, I might almost say, the " blunder" of not recognising the disease early. It must, however, be admitted that the early phenomena are masked in many respects. Patients complain either of digestive troubles, loss of appetite, heartburn, nausea, vomiting, irregular action of the bowels, colic, &c., or of rheumatism in this or that muscular region, or still more fi'e- quently of nerve disturbances—hebetude, headache, indifferent sleep, heat of palms and of soles, depression, no desire for work, &c. When, however, the excretion of sugar is appreciably increased, then all those changes which aroused suspicion of diabetes, acquire greater prominence. They result partly from the nature of the disease itself, i.e., from the incapacity of the body to assimilate the sugar that is taken in the nutriment, partly also from the direct overloading of the blood with sugar, or from its excretion through the urinary system. As the various sources of the symptoms do not permit of easy separation, and there are also " mixed" symptoms, it will be more desirable to discuss them in the order of their frequency and diagnostic value, and then to consider the condition of the various organs. But it must again be emphasised, that there is no fixed rule in this respect, and that exceptions are met with in eveiycase. In fact, with the exception of sugar in the urine, there is scarcely a