178 HOFMEISTEK ON DIABETES MELLITUS, be omitted when the results of the previous mentioned ones are at all doubtful. G. Fisher-Jaksch's test. 50 com. of urine are decomposed by 2 grams (about 30 grs.) of phenylhydrazin hydrochlorate and 3 grams (about 45 grs.) of sodium acetate and heated for some thirty minutes in a water bath. On cooling, which may be accelerated by immersion in cold water, a yellow precipitate appears easily recognisable when there is a large quantity of sugar present. Microscopically, it consists of yellow needles and spheroids, and from its combination with the sugar is termed by E. Fisher Phenylglycosazine. The applicability of this very favourite test has lately been questioned, owing to the discovery made in Plosz's laboratory, that besides sugar, another constituent of normal urine—probably a compound of glycuronic acid—also has the property of forming with phenylhydrazin, a yellow sub- stance consisting of acicular crystals. For the purposes of exact diagnosis a quantitative deter- mination of the sugar must be based upon all the urine passed in 24 hours, as it is not so much a question of the percentage of sugar in any given specimen, as of the quantity excreted with the urine during the whole period. For instance, should the urine show 4 per cent, of sugar, and the amount passed in 24 hours be 5 litres (about 169^ fl. oz.), then 4 x 50 = 200 grms. (about 3,000 grs.) of sugar are excreted; again, if the amount of sugar be 7 per cent, and the urine passed 2| litres (about 84^ fl. oz.), then 70x2^ = 175 grms. (about 2,630 grs.) are excreted daily. The following are the methods of estimating the sugar in the urine quantitatively :— I. By employment of Fehling's solution.—The prin- ciple is the same as that of Trommer's test, namely, the reduc- tion of the oxide of copper to the suboxide by grape sugar in an alkaline medium. As five parts by weight of grape sugar free from water reduce 34-639 parts by weight of pure copper sul- phate, the two solutions are made in the following proportions :— . I. 34-639 grms. of pure copper sulphate are dissolved in water by heat, and then diluted to form 500 com. II. 173 grms. of sal seignette (sodium potassio-tartrate) are dissolved in 350 grms. of pure caustic soda (sp. gr. 1-14) and diluted with water to form 500 com. Both solutions must be kept in well-stoppered bottles. Before