LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 9 of his work than I. They may only be compared with the ex- plorations of an insufficiently instructed traveller in a country still very little known. I therefore was obliged, in order not to lose the little I had achieved, to stop short, and I constructed a typical form, " the Coccobaderia septica," from which I imagined the majority of the other forms which came within the range of my investigations were derived. I was supported in my speculations by the dawning Darivinism, and the authority of Naegeli. I wound up, as regards etiology, with the hypothesis, " the products of inflammation " (the first origin of which in most cases still remained to me as obscure as before), specially the ferment which I conjectured to exist in them, "the Zymoide^'— are a particularly favourable nutritive medium for the whole progeny of the Coccobacteria group which gain entrance partly from outside, partly from the blood. Here they luxuriate and by their intrinsic vital activity increase the inflammatory process and materially contribute to its progress. They undergo in each focus of inflammation a certain change of matter and transfer it, when entering another living tissue, into the latter. The normal uninjured surface of the body is protected against the invasion of these elements. The dried microbes only act when converted into resting-spores, and when, after their ingress into the animal body, they find sufficient water to enable them to swell out and germinate. What next strongly impressed me on this subject was the inoculation of putrescent fluids containing microbes into the living cornea. What had hitherto seemed to me a hypothesis, viz., that cocci may be capable of finding their way also into healthy tissues and thus to overpower and destroy the vital energy of the tissue-cells, has in this instance become a proved fact. At the same time another phenomenon became evident: that the effect on the cornea of dogs was very slight, but on the cornea of rabbits in many cases totally destructive. But as the same star-shaped figures, as shown by the investigations of A. von Fiisch, likewise appeared on the dead cornea, these inoculated cocci might also be genuine saprophytes, which, owing to a peculiar vegetative energy in the living cornea, only gained more permanent hold, and this view is supported by the con- siderable differences of reactive processes observed in the living cornea of rabbits. These investigations were followed by the