PEYER OX ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 331 advent of puberty, others become normal through ti'eatment by electricity, and Trousseau mentions cases where a single application effected a complete cure. We have incidentally touched upon the various causes of enuresis, which we shall now consider more fully. In a number of cases we are compelled to assume that con- genital iveahiess of the posterior prn'tion of the urethra lies at the hottom of the enuresis. Oberlander shares the same view : " It is well known," he says, '• that the sphincter and detrusor powers of the bladder vary greatly in individuals. This variability bears no relation what- ever either to the muscular power and general health, or to a more or less powerfully developed nervous system. There are just as many little weak men with powerful bladders as strong men with weak ones." According to Oberlander there is no doubt that congenital weakness of the bladder and of the posterior portion of the urethra is. sufficient in itself to account for the origin as well as the persistence of this affection. In his expe- rience men with powerful uro-genital musculature are less liable to severe attacks of vesical catarrh or posterior urethritis than those in whom the reverse obtains. As further proof of this congenital muscular weakness I should like to mention that those who have suffered from enuresis when young, show traces of this weakness after sexual development. From the outset there is as a rule less sexual desire, and their generative organs are unable to bear as much strain as those " of other men. If they indulge in, relatively speaking, slight excesses, for instance, moderate masturbation during youth or coitus incompletus when adults, consequences out of all pro- portion may appear, e.g., exhausting nocturnal emissions, spermatori'hoea, irritable bladder, sexual neurasthenia, &c. From my experience in this class of diseases I inquire, in every case where the sexual disturbance is out of all proportion to the exciting cause, whether the patient ever when young- suffered from nocturnal incontinence, and thus at once obtain an index of the congenital strength and energy of the affected organs. I was surprised when looking up the literatui-e of the subject to find that Lallemand held similar views. In his book on " Involuntary Seminal Emissions," vol. ii., in the chapter on " Urinary Troubles in Childhood," he says, " I have noticed