DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 277 Case II.—Temporary Aspermatismti.s, foUoiued hy imiootence. Spermatmrhcea. Neurasthenia. Severe Asthma. In July, 1880, Mr. R., a miller, consulted me on account of severe asthma and a distressing feeling of depression. Patient was 48, medium height, well built, muscles well developed, and body well covered. He had five children, the youngest being ten years old; no symptoms of hereditary disease. He was accompanied by his wife, a very intelligent woman, who volunteered the following statement: " Doctor, I shall just tell you the cause of his illness; my husband has been completely impotent since he was 38 years old, and even before he was never quite right in this respect." Following up this remark, I inquired into his past history and obtained further particulars about his sexual habits. Ever since the age of six he was addicted to masturbation ; ejaculatio seminis took place first when he was 15, and from then up to 20 he gener- ally masturbated some four or five times daily. When 18, shyness and attacks of depression appeared, but usually passed off quickly. He himself referred them to his vicious habits, which he nevertheless continued, although not quite so frequently, up to 26, when he married. Erection did not always occur at the time of coitus and then the patient had to resort to manual friction. From the very first, ejaculation had absolutely never taken place during natural coitus. After repeated intra-vaginal friction the penis lost erectile power without ejaculation occurring. In fact, under no conditions did ejaculation follow connection. He, therefore, aided the process by withdrawing the penis after more or less vaginal friction and then manually excited it until ejaculation was imminent, whereupon he quickly reintroduced the organ. In this way Mr. R. begat five exceptionally vigor- ous and mentally and bodily healthy children. When 38, in spite of great bodily strength, he completely lost sexual power, and from that time his present illness first began to assume a definite character. His wife mentioned this when he first consulted a doctor, and added she drew the attention of the different medical men he saw to this circumstance, none of whom, however, attached any importance to it. The above-mentioned attacks of dread and depression, which had never quite left him since his 18th year, became frequenter