PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 342 the urethra and of the neck of the bladder supervenes m a case where there is already "a congenital weakness of the uro-genital tract, especially of the sphincter vesica?, we can easily under- stand that the patient is no longer in a position to resist the urinary tension under such circumstances, and thus enuresis continua is brought about. The diagnosis of the presence of chronic inflammation of the prostatic portion is, as a rule, not difficult, and the history generally furnishes evidence in support of it. We should alwa^ys inquire whether the affection was equally troublesome from the very first, or whether it decreased at any particular age—e.g., 12th to 14th year—and then gradually increased, or whether it only appeared for the first time in late childhood (6th to 8th year). If the patient or the parents are unable to give information upon this point from its very commencement, we must endeavour to obtain it by proceeding along definite lines. For if we have ascertained that the affection became worse at a certain period, then we may assume that some fresh exciting factor has super- vened, and we must find out what this is. The best means to this end is frequent microscopic examination of the urine. If w^e have an apparently normal urine to examine, we shall find probably by transmitted light and careful scrutiny that it is not quite clear owing to a slight haze. After standing some time a cloud settles at the bottom of the urine glass, which reveals under the microscope mucus and more or less numerous leuco- cytes. At times we may discover spermatozoa in patients who have passed puberty, or w^e may notice in the pipette a trans- parent tenacious alkaline mucus in which epithelial cells or rhombic prisms (coffin-lid crystals) are imbedded. These results indicate chronic inflammation of the posterior portion of the urethra, and relying on them we may now complete the histor}' by telling the patient that such a discovery in young persons is the result of masturbation, and that he may as well speak the truth. I should here remark that I do not pursue this method without good reasons, for it often happens that such young patients, if we are not almost certain of it, deny masturbating most positively, as is seen in the historv of Case II. We may thus draw our conclusions.