63 AND ITS TREATMENT. thenia goes hand in hand with alcoholism, with morphinism, with cocainism, and the other morbid offshoots of social pathology. With this intellectual exhaustibility are usually conjoined a series of other phenomena which are cjuite characteristic, above all the so-called " Kopfdruch," the feeling of a permanent pressure on the head which is increased by every mental exertion, also giddiness of the head, pain and tension in the occipital region and nape of the nech, heightened sensitiveness of the eyes to light, sleeplessness, psychical irritability and peevishness. The nervous asthenopia makes reading difficult for the patient, while, on the other hand, the rapid exhaustion of nerve-force renders him incapable of continuous mental exertion. In this pitiable condition, caused, as it usually is, by their own fault, are the numerous sexual neurasthenics, the onanists, who, being forced to intellectual labour by their position, take up their books again and again in order to study, for instance, to read for an exami- nation, and have to lay them aside again very soon because they do not understand what they read, no trace of it is retained by the memory. In sheer desperation they rush out for an hour's walk, and on their return commence the endeavour again, only to abandon it once more. In addition there are peculiar pargesthesise in the head, feelings as though it were encircled with a hoop, or as if water were shaken up and down in it, or as though the upper eyelids were pressed down. Further, numbness in the face, or in the extremities, with feeling of pricking, or burning, or cold ; or as if the limbs " went to sleep," even on the slightest pressure of the bed-cloths against the nerve trunks; noises in the ears and other subjective acoustic sensations; attacks of palpitation; also vasomotor disturbances, for example, epigastric pulsation, perceptible and audible pulse-wave in the ear and head when the latter lies at night on the pillow; sudden feeling of chill or prickly heat, momentary blushing, shooting pains, and finally sudden twitchings in certain groups of muscles, which shoot like electric shocks through the body when the patient is going to sleep. The multifarious conditions of fright and horror with which the patients are afflicted are also characteristic. Sometimes these are to be referred to dreadful occurrences, but generally no cause whatever can be assigned for the special terrifying idea.