31 LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. Some of my readers may perhaps have been surprised that I liad not long before alluded to the accumidation and encjorgement of nut lit ice fluid in certain regions of the body as formative stimuli. I believe that this cause has been much overrated. There is a o-eneral current and hackneyed opinion that the development of varicosities produces not only purely hypertrophic but also hyperplastic processes in the skin, the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and even in and on the bone. But even should the problem be solved why varices only occasionally call forth these conditions, and why sometimes not at all, I should still hesitate to attribute it to the engorgement of venous blood and of lymph alone without further inquiries for the cases of hyperplastic elephantiasis. Sporadic cases of elephantiasis of the leg as they occur in man are frequently accompanied by far slighter vari- cosities than in the female with the most delicate normal skin. I suppose that the aforementioned hyperplasias have the same causes as other kinds of inflammation, namely, that they are brought about by feebly formative irritant microbes, and that they therefore always represent a merely accidental combination with varicosities. We must not forget that the formation of vari- cosities is essentially due to an enormous untimely longitudinal growth of certain veins which surely cannot possibly take place without hyperplasia of the cells of the vascular walls. If increase of intervascular pressure (to which the main cause is mostly attributed in the etiology of varicosities) really participate in this process, the effect could only very slowly be brought about; experiments may perhaps elucidate this question. Again, heredity or "Fate" is here, according to my experience, the principal cause; the predisposition to hyperplasia of the venous walls is transmitted by the act of impregnation; it also takes place without any accidental causes. Not long ago I saw in consultation a strong young man of about twenty years of age, whose leg was completely covered with thick varicosities but without thickening of the skin. All my inquiries after accidental causes failed. His mother, when still quite a yomig woman, had already become affected with varicosities. It has not yet been ascertained whether increased function may also be considered as one of the formative stimuli. The majority of those who have investigated this subject, especially Nothnagel in his instructive treatise, " On adaiotations and com-