AND ITS TREATMENT. 57 asthenia originated and received its name from Beard. Very significant is it that Beard terms it an American disease," ivhich is never absent from a house whose inhabitants are intel- lectaally active:' Of course it occurs in all other civilised countries, but with far from the same enormous frequency as m the United States. The fact is not surprising to any one at all ■acquainted with the social relations which prevail in that country. Intensity and hurry of daily work, restlessness during the^ time devoted to recreation, short and troubled sleep, the strife of competition, chance, and circumstances impart a peculiar charac- ter to the social relations of North America, at least in manufac- turing and commercial circles. I have frequently had occasion to give professional advice to such worn-out American neurasthenics, and could place before you a large number of examples. Two instances, however, will suffice. A middle-aged merchant who presides over a large business house in New York has been suffering for years from sleepless- ness, feeling of oppression in the head, sudden terrors, &c. The following is his description of his daily life: " I work strenuously from eight in the morning till ten at night. I have no time for meals. I mostly eat standing, and the food is often cold and insipid by the time I am ready for it. By ten o'clock at night I am so wearied out that I can hardly make the effort to close my books. During the night my work whirls confusedly through my brain, so that it is only towards morning that-I can get a few hours unquiet sleep. Then in the morning I feel a dreadful lassitude, and have to take a few glasses of cognac in order to get once more into working order." A young business man for months incapable of any mental exertion, suffering from sleeplessness and agoraphobia, thus de- picts the mode of life which he has been leading for years : " We work from eight till eight. We only have a quarter of an hour for breakfast. In the evening when the business is over we young fellows go at once to the restaurant, where we eat and drink and amuse ourselves till two or three in the morning. Of course I do not get enough sleep, as I have to get up at seven. When I travel for the business, I always do so at night, so as to utilise the day for work." Is it to be wondered at, gentlemen, that a brain maltreated to