ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 255 which are so frequently seen in those exposed to cold or in a state of excitement. These may occur in anyone, well or ill, but are especially observed in " nervous " people. The tendon-reflexes ai-e diminished in all the muscular areas where the disease has gained a firm footing, and finally they disappear altogether ; the skin-reflexes generally persist for a longer time. In many cases, and often in an early stage, contracture occurs, or rather retraction of certain muscles, and this may lead to abnormal positions of the limbs ; the commonest are pes equinus and contracture in flexion at the knee and elbow. It only remains to mention the peculiar mottling of the skin, which is so especially marked in many children with pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis. Everything else—sensory and trophic functions of the skin, sphincters, sexual power, special senses, brain, all other internal organs, and all vegetative functions—are normal. Turn now to the difierential diagnosis. We require first of all to distinguish it from spinal muscular atrophy, amyotrophia spinalis progressiva, the pathological basis of which is believed to be a disseminated degeneration of the anterior columns of grey matter in the cord. This disease, also a form of slow muscular wasting, is characterised by the following features : There is rarely evidence of heredity, and it begins generally in adult years ; the small muscles of the hand are almost always the first to be attacked, with gradual atrophy of the individual muscles, extending progressively to the forearm, upper arm and trunk, afiecting the lower extremities only at a later period ; there is never either true or false hypertrophy of the muscles ; fibrillar twitching in abundance is generally present; electrical irritability is long preserved, but at the last in the most of the muscles, when the atrophy is advanced, there is always the reaction of degeneration, either partial or complete, and occurring with most regularity in the small muscles of the hand ; tendon reflexes generally long maintained, very often combined with chronic bulbar paralysis. Everything else— sensory functions, special senses, sphincters, &c.,—normal. In this list I have given you the determining elements for the diSerential diagnosis. The most important are the diflferent localities affected, the progress of the disease from the distal ends of the limbs to the trunk, the absence of hypertrophy, the