AND ITS TREATxMENT. 77 Above all, gentlemen, what I must again and again insist upon is the necessity of individualising. In no disease are the md.- vidual differences in the manifestation of the malady,_as well as in its intellectual and psychical sphere, so great as m neuras- thenia Each individual case has to be separately studied m order that its individual peculiarities may be knowii, and the best of all means to this end is an accurate Instory, winch, based x,pon the communicativeness of the patient, places clearly before oir eves the entire man and his circumstances. The profound inter;st shown by the doctor in the careful takmg of the histo^^^ excites the patient's confidence, and this feeling of confidence and security is still further strengthened by a close examination^ As everything depends on the recognition or exclusion ot objective lesions, the investigation must be very thoroughgoing. It naturally requires a good deal of time, but it is indispensable to ensure the certainty of the diagnosis and the confidence of the ^""it ts advisable at the close of the investigation to tell the patient something accurate about the nature of the disease, the prognosis as to cure, and the necessary treatment. All neuras- thenics feel the desire of hearing something definite about their malady, and are heartily grateful to the physician for every explanation and every word which raises their self-confidence and rescues them out of their often despairmg condition. You have now to decide, from the state of the case, whether the patient may follow his occupations during the treatment, or whether he must withdraw from them for a shorter or longer period The decision of this question is very important for the entire result of the treatment. It must be decided by the impression which the physician receives from the history and his investigations into the patient's condition, and the effect ot occupational and family influences. If there is sleeplessness and incapacity for work, cessation is absolutely necessary. Each day on which the worn-out and incapable brain is forcibly compelled to work makes the situation worse. On the other hand, milder cases with diminished capacity for exertion may well be per- mitted to exercise the duties of their calling, when it is possible to limit the amount of work and lighten the duties. The hours thus left vacant may be properly applied to physical exercise suitable to the sex, position, and age of the patient. Walks, ridmg,