LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 45- perhaps be unphilosopliical to presume upon an immunity of certain plants against the action of certain gall-producers. Why does the butterfly, again, after having strayed far, far from its native place, deposit its eggs only on certain plants? Because its fate, or its hereditary memory, or somethmg unconscious, within it, tells it that the caterpillars after having escaped from the eggs can only live on the leaves of certain plants. Whether the Bhodites species which produce the elegant moss-galls on roses may not bring about the identical forms on other plants we do not yet know, because this species of wasp never lay their eggs on anv other kind of plant. Their larv^, after' escaping from the egg, thrive best, or only, on the marrow sub- stance of the rose-galls. . We cannot well dispense with the teleological speculation tor the understanding of most of these processes in the vegetable and animal world without depriving ourselves of a great enjoyment in our investigations. I by no means consider as injurious the teleological speculations on nature which have been for some- time so much condemned, provided we always bear m mmd that processes like the afore-described are as much necessary effects of the material forces as all the conscious and unconscious acts of volition in general. If the wasp, therefore, be obliged to deposit its eggs upon, or into, an oak leaf, a shell will form from the latter (like the egg shell around a bird's egg), which protects them and its contents, and at the same time serves as nourishment for the young maggots. If the same wasp were to lay its eggs, e.g., in the leaf of a horse- chestnut, perhaps also a gall would form, but the hatched maggots would probably die, poisoned from feeding on this gall, or they would probably be unable to assimilate this unsuitable kind of food, and consequently would starve. The undoubtedly specific char'acter in many ways of the formation of galls will not justify the supposition of immunity in any kind of plant, of the absence of a formative irritability against the stimulus proceeding from an animal. Such an immunity may, however, exist, and it would certainly be of great interest to institute experimental studies on this subject. If, then, after what we have said, we cannot consider the mechanical stimulus of injuries (the existence of an injury more- over is by no means ascertained in many gall formations) as the