71 AND ITS TREATMENT. afterwards diminish the troubles, whilst loneliness, severe labour, distressing circumstances, anxieties, and sorrows augment them to a marked extent. Such over-strained natures consume but little even of select, easily digested food when at home, and never without subsequent discomfort, whilst to their own astonish- ment when travelling they can go through the whole table dlwte from beginning to end, and swallow and digest the most in- dicrestible things which they would recoil from with abhorrence at home. The neurasthenic dyspepsias seldom react upon the constitu- tion. But when abstinence, due to fear of the pains, gradually increases, when habitual vomiting or obstinate constipation is present, then a state of nutritive cachexia may come on which cause the patient's own diagnosis of " cancer of the stomach" to appear at first sight not impossible. But after careful taking of the history, physical examination of the patient, and investiga- tion of the contents of the stomach during and after digestion, have all yielded negative results, and in consequence of the variability of the symptoms and complaints, it soon becomes obvious that there is merely gastro-intestinal neurasthenia, and the result of appropriate treatment usually confirms the diagnosis without delay. The symptoms referrible to the intestine consist chiefly of abnormally abundant development of gas, which produces the most unpleasant sensations by distension of the hyper-sensitive intestinal wall. The gas-production may undoubtedly be due to morbid innervation, as is so frequently observed in hysteria. The reason why the gases are not driven out is the extreme tension of the intestinal wall, in consequence of which the muscular coat temporarily loses its contractility. I have proved by experiments on dogs, and also on human beings, that the intestinal wall on being over-distended ceases to react, not only to the motor impulses of the automatic centres, but even to electrical stimuli. Even when the downward passage is perfectly free, in cases of meteorism, the gas does not escape. It is only when part of the gas has been absorbed and the tension some- what diminished that the automatic impulses begin once more to operate, though very feebly at first; at somewhat irregular intervals, on an average once each minute, the wave of contrac- tion progresses from above downwards. These experiments on the