ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 249 still greater certainty, and would easily show that the juvenilis the pseudo-hypertrophic, the hereditary, and the infantile formn agree in all the above-mentioned particulars to an extent 1 hat is quite surprising. You must allow me on the present occasion to forego the details of this proof, as it would take up too much of our time. But still more convincing evidence is given by the cases, and they are not so very rare, which may be looked uj)on as transi- tional varieties between those individual types—cases of one form in which you meet with certain features which you have learned to consider as properly belonging only to another form. For example, there have been lately observed several cases, both of the juvenile and of the pseudo-hypertrophic form, in which the muscles of the face have become involved (as in the second case which I showed you) ; or you may see the infantile form, beginning with pronounced facial atrophy, developing, as regards the rest of the body, at one time the juvenile type, at another time the pseudo-hypertrophic type ; or you may observe the lower half of the body take on the distinct pseudo-hypertrophic type, while the upper half is an example of simple atrophy—the juvenile type ; or you may have the exact appearances of pseudo- hypertrophic paralysis, coming on in adult life, i.e., as a juvenile form. Further, we not infrequently see the different forms passing into one another in the cotirse of their development. A case that began as pseudo-hypertrophy takes afterwards the juvenile or infantile form; a hereditary case turns into a pseudo- hypertrophic or juvenile case, and so on. We frequently come across cases, also, which I should like to call indeterminate or, better, indeterminable forms, cases in which there may be doubt as to which type they belong to. We have seen an example of this in our fourth case, and to a certain extent in the two sisters (cases 5 and 6). In a case of this kind one man sees one type, another, another ; or perhaps the case has been taken for a certain type at one time and two years later the physician finds himself inclined or obliged to call it an example of another. And yet all these cases most certainly belong to the same Tiosological group. Different types occur in the same family, and this fact, it appears to me, speaks with great force for the view we are