HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 182 1 com. of oxalic acid solution containing -063 grm. of oxalic acid), of which 1 ccm. neutralises 1 ccm. of sulphuric acid. From 10 to 20 ccm. of urine are poured into a small evaporating dish, together with an equal quantity of lime water. On this a glass triangle" is placed, supporting a shallow dish containing 10 ccm. of normal sulphuric acid. The whole is set under an air-tight bell-jar. After 48 hours, the sulphuric acid will have absorbed all the ammonia. The amount of sulphuric acid that remains free is then ascertained by neutralising with normal caustic soda solution. For instance, if 9-5 ccm. of soda solution are required to neutralise the sulphuric acid, then 9-5 ccm. of the latter were present, and consequently '5 ccm. were used to neutralise the ammonia in the urine. Since 1 ccm. of normal sulphuric acid solution neutralises'017 grm. of ammonia, then the 10 ccm. of the mixed urine contain -017 x -5 = -0085, and a litre therefore '85 grm. of ammonia. Patients who pass from 8 to 4 litres (100 fl. oz. to 133 fl. oz.) of urine daily would therefore excrete from 2-45 to 3*40 grms. (36f gr. to 60 gr.) during that time. PROGNOSIS AND COURSE. Prognosis manifestly depends on the answer to the question whether Diabetes mellitus is a curable disease or not. The word " cure " scientifically means " restitutio ad integrum," that is to say, the materies morbi, whether organic or not, is removed from the body, or destroyed and rendered innocuous, and the various tissues healed so as to allow the exercise of their func- tions, even if with diminished vigour. For the idea of " cure " no more excludes recurrence or diminished resistance to other diseases (in an organ previously attacked) than it does the destructive sequelae in the organ primarily affected or in others. Such sequelte often represent a new disease. For example, a patient, after having passed through an attack of pneumonia or typhoid fever may possibly feel the consequences of these diseases for some time to come. The lungs may be impaired, as is shown by a tendency to bronchial catarrh, or the bowels may be affected with enteric catarrh. Still he is regarded as having recovered from pneumonia or from typhoid fever. With diabetes it is otherwise. Even if, after suitable treatment and regulated diet, a patient is able to assimilate a fair amount of