175 HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. and of turning the plane of polarised light to the right, and by- its power of reducing the salts of copper in alkaline solutions. Other forms of sugar produced from glycogen by the action of animal and so-called diastatic ferments, capable of isolation (saliva, pancreatic juice), possess greater rotatory, but much feebler reducing powers. Besides sugar the amount of urinary solids is increased above the normal; this is easily explained by the increased proteid waste, as well as by the increased amount of nitrogenous food generally consumed, even the excess of water drunk is sufficient to effect a greater elimination of urinary solids. Uric acid is constantly present, although apparently in smaller quantity than normal. The important role the increase of ammonia plays, as regards coma diabeticorum, will be more fully explained in connection with the latter. The knowledge of the relation of other urinary constituents (sulphuric and phosphoric acids, chlorine, and the alkaline earths, &c.) in diabetes has more scientific than practical value. Of abnormal elements calcium oxalate is fairly frequent, and in such abundance that the microscopic field always shows a few crystals easily recognised by the envelope pattern. Oxaluria is therefore important, and its significance is heightened, as it not infrequently precedes diabetes for some time, and may even alternate with the excretion of sugar. Acetone and diacetic acid may be met with in the slighter as well as in the graver forms of the disease, naturally more often in the latter; they are, however, frequently absent in both. Alb umen has already been mentioned j it is important to test for this before commencing to examine for sugar, and if the former be present it must be got rid of, so as not to interfere with the sugar tests. Fungi and bacteria grow very soon in diabetic urine, especially if kept standing in a warm place. For the sake of completeness, allusion must be made to a recent communication of Professor Miiller's, of Bonn, concerning an exceedingly rare case of pneumaturia. Here acid fermentation had already commenced in the bladder, and the evolved gases—carbonic acid and hydrogen—were voided with the urine, making a loud re- port. It sometimes happens that if fermenting urine be allowed to stand in a warm place no sugar can be detected after a time, owing to complete fermentation.