IIOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 163 commencement of his illness from some external cause, e.g., severe shock to the nerves, thorough drenching, serious injury, &c., it is much more likel}'' that the disease, already in existence, has suddenly been aggravated, just as we observe in the more advanced stages of diabetes that a severe shock may suddenly increase the amount of sugar by 2 or 8 per cent. Nevertheless there are always circumstances and conditions, as manifold experience shows, which can be regarded as predisposing factors. 1. Hereditary Influence. The disease may pass from either parent to one, two, or all the children, sometimes from the grand and great-grand parents. Frequently it is confined only to a side branch. Such families generally show a neurotic taint. As regards age, it was thought formerly that children were not attacked, now the number of observations of diabetes in children of tender age increases with every year. Even extreme old age does not enjoy immunity. The greatest number of cases occur between the ages of 30 and 50. The age of diabetics has always an important bearing on prognosis (v. prognosis). As regards sex, it is remarkable that twice as many males as females become diabetic; in children the reverse is said to hold good (3 to 5). The reason for this is unknown, as also whether Diabetes mellitus is infective. No bacillus diabeticus, or its toxic products, has been hitherto discovered. At the same time, it is worth mentioning that, of 200 cases carefully noted by myself during the last ten years, I find four married couples, in which the wife first suffered from diabetes, and the husband from 3 to 5 years later. In all four cases no common cause could be ascertained.* 2. Psychical disturbances, not so often the transient, e.g.,' fright, anger, vexation, as the long persistent and deep-seated, e.g., grief, care, bereavement, melancholy, &c. It is easily under- stood that when there is hereditary predisposition to neurosis, the tendency is all the stronger. All conditions arising from nervous exhaustion, e.g., neurasthenia, sluggish convalescence after serious illness, mental strain, especially connected with the emotions, sexual excess, &c., must be also included. 3. Obesity arising from luxurious living and sedentary habits is decidedly a predisposing factor. The percentage of obese * De Bove and Leoorchd also mention some cases of conjugal diabetes.