AND ITS TREATMENT. sexually torpid character, men as a rule are excessively sensitive on this point, and the morally depressing inOuence of this condition is obvious to the experienced eye in the entire individuality and in every action of the subject. It would lead me too far to go deeper into these matters. They deserve earnest attention on the part of the lohysician, as much mis- fortune arises in the world fxom that cause. I may perhaps take occasion in a subsequent lecture to give expression to my experience and my views on the topic. Treatment. The principles of the treatment of neurasthenia are the direct outcome of the observations I have made regarding its causation and symptomatology. Side by side often with a well-preserved, nay, an actually vigorous constitution we have to do with a con- dition ofu-eahiess affecting the centres of innervation, not merely the centres of ideation, of volition, and of memory, but also those of sensation and the automatic centres, reflex and inhibitory. This functional weakness is combined with a heightened susceptibility to external stimuli, in consequence o^' which the reaction of these latter upon tbe above-mentioned centres, and their functional manifestations, becomes all the more abnormal. The treatment must therefore be chiefly directed to restore and strengthen the nervous system, while, on the other hand, it aims at removing the abnormal excitability. Stimvili must therefore be applied, and by their means susceptibility must be lowered. This apparently paradoxical indication may be easily fulfilled if gentle beneficial stimuli be applied which do not increase the excitability, and if the organism be carefully and gradually accustomed to the stronger forms of stimulation by starting with the weaker ones. The habitual sources of injurious excitement; the unrest of daily life; excessive labour, anxiety, excitement, cares; family difficulties; disturbances of sleep ; excesses; alcohol; all these must be eliminated until the nervous system has recovered its strength sufficiently to support them without injury. In consequence of the generally unavoid- able tendency to return to the former conditions, relapses cannot with certainty be prevented. If good results are to be obtained, separation from the ha- bitual conditions of life and treaftment in institutions specially