PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 341 The glassy, ropy mucus which had collected at the bottom of the glass, together with rhombic prisms (coffin-lid crystals), &c., showed a marked alkaline reaction. Before examining the urine, I asked the little fellow whether he ever played with his genitals, but he strenuously denied doing so. From the results of the microscopic examination I again questioned him on this point, and then he admitted having masturbated ever since he was six, i.e., for the last four years, and exactly during this period oppression of urine was noticed during the day, which, as we have seen, passed into complete incontinence. The treatment—besides explaining to him the consequences of his bad habit—consisted in passing metallic bougies. The first application lasted a quarter of an hour, and the following night was passed without wetting the bed. This treatment was continued regularly for eight days, incontinence was completely cured, and the desire to pass water considerably lessened in frequency. In order to cure the patient of masturbation, the prepuce was slit up, and a sound was passed at intervals for some time afterwards. He remained quite well, and exchanged his wretched appearance for a healthy if not a robust one. What is the explanation now of such a case ? From the outset we must not confound it with that form of enuresis which at times occurs in nervous children, when cough- ing, sneezing, laughing, when doing gymnastics or coming down hill, &c. In my book on " Irritable Bladder," I have shown that irritation of the prostatic portion alone is not sufficient to produce vesical irritability, but rather that the frequent and at times constant oppression of urine characteristic of the affection is not established until the neck of the bladder is implicated. The neck is by far the most sensitive region of the bladder, and it is evident that anything that irritates or frets this must heighten its sensitive- ness to an unnatural extent, and give rise to frequent micturition, which is characteristic of the affection known as " Irritable Bladder." If this chronic inflammatory state of the prostatic portion of