252 ERIi ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. body, the tensor fasciae, sartoritis and gastrocnemius, possibly the whole calf in the lower half. In these muscles the motor power may be very good, sometimes almost abnormally so, but you often find them getting pretty weak, even in an early stage. Lastly, the following are normal, and, in general, long remain so : The sterno-mastoid, levator anguli scapulae, coracobrachialis, teretes, flexors and extensors in the forearm, and the small muscles in the hand ; the rectus abdominis, and in part the muscles of the leg, especially of the calf, and the small muscles of the foot. Of course here, also, the boundary line between what is alFected and what is not often cannot be fixed with anything like precision. Sooner or later, muscles that were previously intact are involved. First, as a rule, come the extensors in the forearm, then the small muscles in the hand and flexors in the forearm, and, finally, the morbid process may extend over the whole body, sparing not even the diaphragm or the muscles of respiration. Extremely rarely it may happen that the muscles of mastication and the ocular muscles are attacked. The patients finally become wasted and helpless all over, or, with equal helplessness, the atrophy may be masked by masses of fatty tissue, giving an appearance of muscular volume. In no case does the disease go on to bulbar paralysis. In moderately advanced cases the peculiarities in the form, attitude, and movements of the body affected by the muscular lesion are extremely characteristic. There is marked lumbar lordosis, the upper half of the body arching well back and the abdomen being protruded in front; the shoulders are lowered and brought forward; the line running from the side of the neck to the apex of the shoulder is divided into two by the prominent superior angle of the scapula ; the shoulder blades may stand out like wings, and often possess a very comical mobility, from not being fixed down in the usual way by the trapezii, latissimi, rhomboids, and serrati, while the fair development of the infraspinati may give them at the same time a singular appearance of deformity. If the arm is raised to the horizontal level and brought down again against some resisting force, the inferior angle of the scapula is turned very much outwards and is approximated to the arm by the powerful action of the teretes and infraspinatus. This is due to the