49 LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. As the maggots emerging from the eggs must necessarily already find food as soon as tliey have left the egg it is highly probable that the developing egg has already acted as a formative stimulus upon the leaf cells, and the gall apple has already been formed before the maggots exist. Such a gall apple consists of the following layers: 1- The external layer of epidermis, which is sometimes strengthened by a corky layer, and by a more or less thick layer of luxuriant parenchymatous cells beneath; 2. Of a hard layer of liquefied, thick-walled, and punctated sclerochymatous cells; and 3. Of an interior (medullari/) layer of extremely delicate walled and small parenchymatous cells containing turbid protoplasm which serves as food for the maggots. From the afore-stated facts it becomes evident that the question whether the gall formation is incited and sustained by a secretion of the mother animal, or by a growth secretion of the eggs, or by special products in the change of matter of the young animals, is still somewhat far from its solution. We may, however, accept as undoubted that the p-oducts of the animal cells are able to act as a feculian^ {specific) formative stimu- lus upon the vegetable cells in the same manner as the vegetable cells (cocci, bacteria) on animal cells. It is suflBcient for me to have here again called to the mind of all the friends of the natural sciences, in the most condensed form possible, this certainly very interesting fact, which brings the animal and vegetable worlds again a step nearer to each other. In conclusion, may I be permitted once more to return to the vegetable microbes as excitors of formative (hyperplastic) pro- cesses in animal cells, namely, the animal epithelial cells. I had previously always spoken only of the formative action of certain microbes on the cells of the connective tissue and vessels. Now we already find in Baumga/i^ten's treatise some indications that karyokinetic forms in epithelial cells may also be called forth by bacilli, as in the pulmonary alveolar epithelium by tubercle-bacilli, in the epithelium of the hair-follicles and in the hepatic cells by glanders-bacilli, &c. Bollinger maintains for certain that the questionable bodies observed in the Molluscum contagiosum in man are not degenerated epithelial cells, but some forms of gregarines. " J. Pfeifer's exhaustive investigations E