368 . LoWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE The method seems to me generally more fitted to be an adjunct to the galvanic treatment, and I found it a valuable help when locally applied for anesthesia of the skin and mucous membranes, paresis of the bladder and rectum, prolapsus ani, lightning pains, &c. For the last-named, and in angesthesia of the skin, the pencil is applied over the region of distribution of the disturbance, but in anaesthesia of the rectal or vaginal mucous membrane, or in paralysis of the bladder or rectum, it is placed about the anus or perinEGum.* The value of Kumpf s method deserves to be very carefully weighed, especially in locomotor ataxia. We require a more extensive experience, however, in order to recognise in what class of cases the method is particularly indicated, that is, in what kind of cases it is of more value than the treatment with the constant current. Electric baths, both galvanic and faradic, have been recom- mended in the last few years for a great variety of nervous affections, but in diseases of the cord I have seen little or no •benefit follow from their use. I must mention, lastly, statical electricity, which has recently been again brought forward. It was tried in spinal diseases twenty years ago by Fieber,^^ and Schwanda,®^ and was subse- quently strongly advocated by Clemens(Frankfurt). Lately, Mortonof New York, claims to have gained a brilliant result by its means in a case of locomotor ataxia. But my own ex- perience of it has been so very unsatisfactory, that I have given it up altogether in organic spinal affections. I readily allow, however, that we are not yet in a position to pass a decisive and final judgment on its therapeutic value in these diseases. The total duration of a course of electrical treatment is de- pendent on several circumstances. The chief of these are the amount of perceptible success, the nature of the disease, and the possibility of the application of other methods of treatment. There are but few cases in which weeks will be sufficient, generally months will be required, and frequently enough even * S. Lowenfeld, Inyestigation on the Electro-therapeutics of the Spinal Cord. Part VII.: On the Therapeutic Effect of the Faradic Brush in Spinal Affections. I must direct attention here to the necessity of carefully disinfecting the brush- electrode after each use of it on account of the danger of communicating syphilis by its means. I am in the habit myself of using the spirit lamp for this purpose.