332 PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. all the patients who have suffered from nocturnal seminal emis- sions have been subject "to incontinence of urine, which has lasted at least up to seven or eight years of age, and in several ca-ses tip to puberty. Even then such patients for the rest of their life are frequently obliged to empty the bladder, and always have difficulty in retaining water wlien the need of micturition is pressing." Further on this author alludes to the spontaneous cure of enuresis in spite of all treatment at the period of puberty. " This close relationship," says Lallemand, " is sufficient to show that congenital incontinence of urine augurs ill for virility, and facts leave no room for doubt on the subject. It is therefore very important to question patients upon this point who are suffering from involuntary seminal emissions. They never attach enough importance to what has taken place during childhood; however, the practitioner may derive most valuable information from it." In conclusion, I may quote from my work on "Irritable Bladder" the following passage which bears upon this very point: " It is not rare for congenital weahiess of the uro-genital tract, which is manifested in childhood by wetting the bed, to be the foundation of irritability of the iDladder. Such patients often suffer in later years from frequent micturition brought on by relatively insignificant indiscretion, e.g., slight venereal excess (coitus reservatus, &c.), or over-indulgence in pleasures of the table (drinking, smoking, &c.)." Other w^riters view the etiology of enuresis from a diametrically opposite standpoint. They assume a reflex origin. Magenruder (c/. Surgical Eeports, 1887) maintains that nocturnal inconti- nence in boys over eighteen months old is due to phimosis, or adhesion betw^een the glans and prepuce. In proof of this he cites a number of cases where surgical measures resulted in a complete cure. Enuresis may also occur in children suffering from epilepsy, night terrors, or other disorders of the central nervous system. It is also seen in chronic nephritis, pyelitis, stone in the kidney and in the bladder. Again, the character of the urine may be a cause, e.g., uratic and phosphatic urine—the so-called scalding urine; in such cases it is assumed that hj^perassthesia of the neck of the bladder or of the whole vesical mucosa is present. I