322 STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. processes whicli we must call psychical. In regard to the nature of these latter each one may think as it pleases him ; but every one must allow the fundamental distinction that exists between the processes which play a part in consciousness, the psychical processes, and those which are purely concerned with the bodily innervation, and, further, that the normal course of all voluntary motion and all conscious sensation is only possible with per- fectly normal associations between these two spheres. If the mutual relationships are disturbed in any way motor and sensory disturbances of the most varied kind follow. If the passage from the will to execute a movement to the motor centres (probably the well-known cortical motor centres) is interfered with we have a hysterical paralysis. On the other hand, if abnormal and morbid volitions act on the motor centres we have hysterical contractures, spasms, &c. These are examples of morbid stimuli which take origin in the sphere of voluntary action, and which may, therefore, be immediately associated with other psychical elements, such as ideas, passions, and the like. Again, if the transmission of centripetal sensory stimuli, which, in a normal way passing to the sensory centres of the cortex, become conscious sensations, is interfered with we hav& hysterical ansesthesia. This anesthesia is, however, by no means arranged according to the plan of the sensory conductmg paths • hence, for example, we have complete unilateral amaurosis and not hemianopsia. If, on the other hand, the sensory stimuli pursue a normal path, but produce sensations of abnormal streno-th, we have hysterical hyperassthesia. The spontaneous hysterical pains (hysterical neuralgias and the like) I look upon as excitations produced in consciousness itself, therefore, m some measure, as hallucinations of pam. Of the exact nature of this disassociation between the psy- chical and the somatic spheres which forms the groundwork of hysterical symptoms we know, of course, nothmg, seeing thtat the nature of the association itself is a perfect riddle to us. But the disturbance for the most part does not consist m a complete separation, but merely in a displacement, to use a figure ot speech a kind of luxation; on that account any hysterical disorder, as is well known, can disappear in a moment, giving place to the normal condition. . . The causes of this disturbance of the union between the