20 BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF same plant, the septum between the conjugated terminal cells disappears, the contents of both cells commingle and contract to one solid capsulated globule. "This represents the resting-spore or Zygospore of these fungi, which possess the same properties as the afore-mentioned Zygospores which had been produced by the contents of a single cell. The same is the case with the conjugation of 8'warm-spores as it takes place in the genera of Algee of the Pandorina3, the Hydro- dictyons, and the Ulothrich^ in the most varied modes, in which also three or four cells may combine into the formation of a zygospore. Whether the fusion into plasmodia of the Myco- mycetes, to which also the Amoeba belong, which so closely resemble the leucocytes and the pus cells, may be considered as a true conjugation, still remains doubtful. We see that in these plants no separation of sexes yet exists, or at least is not perceptible, in order to produce a cell which already potentially includes a new plant. We, therefore, cannot say in this case that one of the cells which participate in the conjuga- tion exerts on the other cell a formative, though for the time being merely a local formative stimulus. Such a formative stimulus first distinctly manifests itself in the Oogonia and Antheridia (Sea-Algse, fucus) by the formation of differently shaped elements, of which the movable, ciliated, mostly very minute cells are distinguished as male cells {Sp&nna- tozoids), and the resting, larger ones, as female cells {ovide cells). • Hereby we suppose that the spermatozoids act as a specific formative stimulus on the specific formative irritability of the ovule by the conflux of its plasma with that of the ovule cell. I purposely use the term ''specific formative stimidiis," because the fully developed unfertilised ovule cells most probably are susceptible of purely nutritive, and also of other kinds of stimuli. It is of course a mere hypothesis if we surmise that the ovule cells as well as the epithelial cells of the seminal ducts of the testis participate in the formation of tumours, especially of tera- tomas, in which we as little know the formative stimulative im- pulse 'as the process itself. The supposition of such a process, however, does not contradict our other views on the processes in the cellular elements as far as I am able to survey them. A striking difference between the most highly organised plants, the giant trees of the virgin forest, and the most highly deve-