LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 29 a regular manner if the granulating surface is established upon moveable and contractile tissues. The condensation of granula- tion tissue, which to a certain extent also brings on contraction and eventually obliteration of the immoderately developed vessels, favours the development of epidermis upon the granulating sur- faces. We may therefore say that the incapability of contraction of the granulating base (bone and fascia) acts in some manner as a passive formative stimulus influencing the luxuriance of the development of the granulations by preventing them from under- going their natural fate of transformation into cicatricial tissue. Practical surgery has long ago recognised this fact, and has devised a series of methods in order to further under these circumstances the condensation of the granulations. The profuse secretion of pus (though frequently merely a kind of mucous discharge) in these granulations when becoming fungous, being certainly dependent on the settling of pus or blennorrhoeal cocci in these granulations, we might perhaps attribute to them, as promoters of the pus secretion, a certain degree of formative irritation. I merely mention this in relation to later experiences according to which some kinds of bacteria (tubercle bacilli) bring about at the same time formative irrita- tion of the fixed tissue-elements, emigration of leucocytes, vascularisation, and formation of granulation tissue.* Finally, we should not omit to mention that we are acquainted with certain medicinal substances which must undoubtedly be * We cannot deny that from the present standpoint of our knowledge, a precise distinction between purely phlogogenic, pyogenic, and formative stimuli, and consequently also an absolute distinction between inflammation, suppuration, and regeneration, is barely feasible without straining the observed facts. All these three processes may certainly almost exist entirely each by itself, but their combination is by far the more frequent occurrence, although with a prominence of one or the other. On this subject I have come to the following conclusions : (1) We must regard the softening of tissues (especially of the walls of the blood- vessels) in inflammation as a kind of peptonisation, as the immediate effect of the growth of phlogogenic microbes. This effect may be very slight and transient, so that the tissue elements, without having undergone a formative alteration, very soon return to their normal physiological condition ; the walls of the vessels permit the emigration of a number of leucocytes which re-immigrate into the vessels and return to their normal state. (2) The stimulus acts longer and more slowly; it also involves the fixed tissue elements, especially the cells of the connective tissue and the vessels, it acts formatively upon these; at the same time emigration of leucocytes in moderate number takes place, perhaps here and there also a fibrinous exudation forms. These processes may occur in sub- acute and chronic inflammations, and they may terminate in hypertrophic thickening, which again may completely disappear. (3) The phlogogenic