TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 361 good is attained with the usual four weeks' residence and 18 to 20 baths, and the patients ought to make up their minds to a stay of from two to three months, or even longer in some cases. It is advisable to make this quite clear to begin with. When a course of baths is indicated at all, the time of year should not be suffered to stand in the way, as, at any rate, the water cure and brine baths (the most important forms of treatment in spinal cases) can always be put into operation. We must say something about the local thermic applications to the spinal column. Moist warmth in the form of fomentations and poultices to the back is scarcely ever made use of now. I certainly think the former could hardly be expected to exercise much effect on the lesion under discussion ; hot poultices, hot sand-bags, or hot water in Chapman's bags, offer hopes of better results. According to Chapman,^^ warmth applied to the spinal column produces hjrper^mia in the affected portion of the cord, and at the same time removes the congestion and feeling of heat from the peripheral parts which derive their nervous supply from the portion in question. On the other hand, he holds that cold lowers the circulation in the cord, and after some time raises the temperature at the periphery. I must acknowledge that I have not been able to verify this theory in my own experience, nor am I convinced from published cases that the successes of the method are arrived at in the way Chapman thinks. But I have certainly seen benefit in a number of cases from the application of cold by means of Chapman's bags. There have been, particularly, affections of the cord where both the meninges and the vertebra have been involved, as in tumour of the cord and myelo-meningitis. I have seen good also in some cases of lightning pains in locomotor ataxia. The special advantage, apart from the ease of application, which these bags offer is that they allow of the careful regulation of the thermic effects; in this way the temperature which exactly suits the patient can be obtained. II,—Electro-therapeutics. The most distinct step in advance in the treatment of diseases of the spinal cord within the past twenty or thirty years was achieved by the introduction of a rational system of electrical * Instead of Chapman's bags, Leiters coils may be used.