LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 35 feebly, active as formative stimulants, without, however, any- particular concomitant chemical effects whatever on the enclosed fluid or pulpy contents of these cysts. The expansion of a tubercle, however, is so slight, and in comparison with the above-mentioned cases relatively of so short a duration, that other and more important features must certainly here come into play. What causes, then, the formation of granulations around the tubercle ? Is it the continued direct effect of the tubercle bacilli, or is it due to the action of endothelial cells which had been primarily produced by the bacilli, and consequently an indirect bacillary effect, somehow in the second generation? Baumgmien's observation, that in rapidly forming miliary tubercles the number of bacilli is very great, the disintegration of the endothelial new formation is very rapid, the development of the covering lymphoid tissue is so very rapid, that the forma- tion of an epithelial nodule may be easily, almost entirely, over- looked, support the view that the bacilli themselves constitute the formative stimulus also in the formation of lymphoid (granu- lation) tissue. They consequently would be able to produce one after the other two kinds of tissue—viz., the endothelial nodule and the granulation tissue. That the latter, according to our present views, can only be brought about by leucocytes, I already repeatedly pointed out. The apparent peculiarity of this pheno- menon might perhaps be explained in that bacilli act as a formative stimulus also on the capillary cells. Some closer attention ought perhaps to be directed to the possibility of Karyokinetic forms in the nuclei of the capillaries. If such are discovered—which seems not to be improbable after the observa- tions of giant cells, which are found in intimate connection with the walls of the vessels in Pacchioni''s granulations (Kolliher's Osteoblasts)—we may suppose that the capillaries, with their adventitious cells, and especially the cells on the walls of the so- called "transition vessels," lead not only to the new formation of vessels, but in general to the development of granulation tissue, the origin of which, from leucocytes, is now no longer tenable. The formative stimulating action of the tubercle cells accord- ing to their quantity and their vegetative energy is at any rate extremely various (we here leave entirely out of consideration the relative immunity of individual warm-blooded animals, as