HOFMEISTER ON DIAIJETES MELLITUS. 155 Seegen) that sugar is, or at any rate may be, forinecl out of albumen and fat. The second form results from experiments by Mering and Minkovski, who excised the pancreas. Immediately after the operation sugar appeared in the urine and persisted for weeks until the death of the animal. Simultaneously, other leading features of Diabetes are said to have been present: Polyuria, Polydipsia, insatiable hunger, and great emaciation in spite of abundant nutriment. Glycogen disappeared from the organs, sugar was largely increased in the blood, and a considerable quantity of acetone found in the urine. These experimenters state that the solar ganglion was not injured during the opera- tion, and therefore the Diabetes is to be considered as a pure consequence of the arrest of the functions of the pancreas. They look upon the secretion of the Pancreas—Trypsin—as the most powerful diastatic ferment, and that which alone effects the conversion of maltose, formed during digestion from carbo- hydrates, into grape sugar. Their statements are confirmed by Lepine, who performed antiseptically excision of the pancreas without injuring the Solar Plexus, and obtained similar results. Further researches in this direction should throw some light upon the still obscure data of Diabetes. HISTORY AND THEORIES OF DIABETES MELLITUS. The various theories of Diabetes are intimately connected with the history of the disease. Although it is beyond doubt that physicians of old were well aware that in rare cases sweet- tasting urine was excreted, yet this phenomenon was not con- sidered worthy of any particular attention, and indeed it is still imcertain whether the ancients meant to indicate " sugar-flux " by diabetes or simple polyuria, now termed Diabetes insipidus. To Thomas Willis, an Englishman, is due the merit of being the first (in 1674) to describe and recognise Diabetes as a disease, with sugar in the urine as its chief symptom. Still, it was not until 100 years later, after Dobson and Pole had succeeded in demonstrating directly sugar in the urine, and John Rollo had confirmed the injurious influence of starchy foods in the course of Diabetes, thus directing treatment into the right path, that physicians really began to take a closer interest in this disease. Its symptoms were thoroughly noted, and valuable experience in