177 HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. to ensure success of the test the following conditions must be observed. (1) Tlie solution must be well diluted, thougli of course it must retain its alkaline reaction. (2) The dilute solution must be heated before the addition of urine, in order to be quite certain that the fluid itself has not become capable of reducing the copper owing to decomposition of the tartaric acid. If to the heated solution a few drops of urine are added, a precipitate similar to that in Trommer's test appears if sugar is present. The two last-mentioned tests are the most frequently used as comparatively convenient and trustworthy when there is a fair amount of sugar. The following are severer tests to determine traces of sugar. 4. Bottger's test. From 5 to 10 ccm. of urine are placed in a test-tiibe together with a quarter its volume of concentrated caustic potash. A small piece, about the size of two pins' heads, of magisterium bismuthi (basic nitrate of bismuth) is dropped into the test-tube and the whole heated for some minutes up to lOO^C. In the presence of a large quantity of sugar, metallic bismuth is thrown down, recognised by the sudden turbidity of the fluid and the collection of a black precipitate at the bottom of the test-tube; if there is only a small quantity of sugar present, the precipitate is of a grey colour (suboxide of bis- muth). In the presence of albumen this otherwise reliable test may undergo serious modifications, and on this account is seldom used in practice. 5. But for demonstrating traces of sugar, Seegen's test is to be preferred. The urine is passed through a covered filter made of thoroughly purified blood charcoal. The filtrate contains a small portion of the sugar and other constituents of tlio urine; all the colouring matter and the bulk of the sugar are retained in the charcoal. This is well washed with water, which dissolves out the sugar; the first washing consists almost of a pure solution of sugar, which, even when the quantity is ([uite small, gives indubitable results with Trommer's or Fehling's test. The second and third washings often yield distinct re- actions ; hence Seegen's blood-charcoal test is specially suited to the detection of mere traces of sugar, and its use should not N