83 AND ITS TREATMENT. the strong stimulation of the sensory nerves and reaction of these latter on all the innervation centres and their functions collectively, and on the other by the vigorous promotion of the blood and"^ lymph circulation in the skin, subcutaneous tissue, and muscles, whereby tissue change and restitution are actively assisted. Massage is of the first importance in those severe cases where absolute rest in bed is necessary, and abstention from all bodily and mental activity, even the slightest. Accordingly it plays a leading part in the Weir-Mitchell treatment. Here voluntary muscular action is completely replaced by massage, without resorting in the smallest degree to central impulses. With regard to the duration of the electrical and massage treatment I would counsel moderation. After from three to four weeks one may try an experimental cessation for one or two weeks, during which the patient may undertake a little excursion to test his strength, and, if need be, to acquire renewed patience for a continuance of the treatment. The drugs which may be administered in neurasthenia belong to the classes of nervine sedatives, tonics, and hypnotics. Do not expect too much, gentlemen, from medication in this disease. The bromides alone are frequently very valuable, bat only when exhibited in large doses (2 to 3 grams several times daily), especially in the evening, when there is nervous excitement and sleeplessness. They suffice but very seldom, however, as the sole curative agent; they are to be looked upon as mere adjuvants in the complete course of treatment. I prescribe, when necessary in such cases, a mixture of bromide of sodium, bromide of potassium, bromide of ammonium, and sometimes also bromide of lithium in moderate doses, and keep this prescription in force often for several weeks when the result is satisfactory. Some patients like to order something for themselves when they feel miserable, or resort to some previous prescription. Bromides are highly suitable for this purpose. I am in the habit of recom- mending people who suffer from attacks of terror, or who go about the world in constant dread of such attacks, always to carry about boxes of starch-capsules of bromide in their waistcoat or coat pocket, and take some when the dread of the dread comes on. Water, to drink afterwards, is to be had everywhere. Others who suffer from attacks of weakness, " Heisshunger," and such