299 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 111 a few, the attacks were, so to say, spontaneous, i.e., no exciting cause could be ascertained. Tlie majority, however, were brought on by mere sexual excitement, or by the simple act of coitus, or even by nocturnal emissions. In a few cases the patient was convinced that there was a connection between the sexual malady and asthma; in the rest, I suspected that it might be a cause of the attacks. In some the sexual act was so regularly followed by asthmatic attacks that the relation was at once patent. Diagnosis. The chief point is that we should know and always bear in mind that disturbance of the generative system is one of the chief exciting causes of asthma in males as well as in females. We must thoroughly inquire into the history and condition of the sexual functions. We shall then learn whether the patient has suffered from congenital weakness of the uro-genital system (wetting the bed), whether he has either during youth or later on been addicted to sexual abuse of any form, whether he has ever had any venereal trouble (gonorrhoea, &c.), whether nocturnal seminal emissions are morbidly frequent, or, lastly, whether any anomaly of the sexual function occurs. Examina- tion of the urine—frequently made—and endoscopy, if necessary, should inform us as to the present condition of the uro-genital system, especially whether chronic urethritis or spermatorrhoea exists. Similarly, in the case of women, we must inquire into the history of the sexual functions, the amount and duration of the menses, the character of the molimina, the presence of fluor albus or of lumbar symptoms (back-ache, &c.). If the history indicates its necessity, a vaginal examination should be resorted to. Having then carefully informed ourselves upon these points, we find, for instance, that in an asthmatic patient, after long continued masturbation during youth or after excessive sexual indulgence, especially in coitus imperfectus, or with partial impotence, by microscopic examination of the urine, spermator- rhoea exists and other nerve symptoms are present, then, by careful exclusion of other causes, the diagnosis of sexual asthma may be made. Our diagnosis is likely to be more certain if we find that any sexual event precedes the attack of asthma.