290 PEYEll ON ASTHMA AND was of a remarkably sluggish nature, and a considerable interval elapsed before ejaculation. Afterwards she was completely done up, whereupon the breathing at once became laboured; the genuine attack did not come on until some hours after. When she was abl&to undertake the return journey she passed from under my care, but I impressed upon her very strongly the advisability of consulting a specialist for diseases of women, and submitting to a thorough examination of the sexual organs, which were in all probability in a condition of inflammatory irritability. Case X.—Masturbation. Hypemesthesia of the Orificium Vaginae. Vaginal and Uterine Catarrh. Hysterical and Asthmatic Atlaclis. One of my acquaintances consulted me shortly after marriage about his being unable to have connection with his wife. No sooner did he touch the genitals when she became greatly ex- cited, hysterically convulsed, and swooned away. She was 24 years old, very intelligent, delicate, nervous, and yet excelled in certain forms of exercise, e.g^, riding. From time to time she suffered from hysteria and fits, as above mentioned, followed by dead faints, and at times from asthmatic attacks, lasting some hours. There was no pulmonary emphysema present. Digital examination brought on attacks similar to those on attempt at connection. Consequently, this could only be satisfactorily carried out under aneesthesia. It was found that inflammatory irritability of the ostium (orificium) vaginae was present, hymen absent, vagina dilated and inflamed, and catarrh of the cervix uteri. Diagnosis: Inflammatory condition and h3qDergesthesia of the whole genital tract, due to long-continued masturbation ; hence the hysteria and asthma. Therapeutics: Local treatment, and prohibition of any attempt at sexual intercourse. Complete cure. Case XI.—Fibroid of the Uterus. Severe Asthma. Operation. Cure. The patient, aatat. 49, had been sufiering for years from severe asthma, which occurred more frequently during summer. She had had five children, and formerly never sufiered from any dis- turbance of the menses. For some time past the periods had