334 PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALP:S. frequently, in addition often had diarrlioia and suffered a good deal from flatulency. He was also exceedingly irritable, depressed in spirits, and often burst out crying and sobbing without any cause, e.g., when at table, in spite of a really voracious appetite. I could not at all explain the case, until one day the mother told me that—she had just noticed it for the first time—her boy masturbated dreadfully, and in fact, as he confessed to her, had been doing so for some time past. Now I altered my diagnosis: the primary cause is chronic inflammatory irritability of the mucosa of the prostatic portion of the urethra, due to masturbation. The former acted reflexly in producing nocturnal incontinence, and the latter the anaemia and neurasthenia. The remedial measures consisted in preventing masturbation, which was exceedingly difficult to carry into effect, and in the local applica- tion of a solution of tannin twice a week to the prostatic urethra. The little patient was in the end completely cured after a good deal of trouble and patience. Here we have a case w^here none of the previously mentioned causes existed, but where the mischief lay in the prostatic urethra itself. This is by no means rare; on the contrary, it lies at the bottom of quite a number of obstinate cases of nocturnal incon- tinence. If we examine the urethra of a young male subject, Oberlander says the size of the caput gallinaginis strikes us as out of all proportion, standing up like a buttress. It is evident that this eminence when transiently or chronically irritated must be a source of acute reflex irritability. Further, numerous glands belonging to the genital tract open into the posterior portion of the urethra, e.g., Cowper's glands and the vesiculae seminales. For although these glands do not become active as a rule untd puberty, still it is a mistake to assume that their functions are quite dormant prior to this period. That this is physiologically so, is also borne out by the frequent, erections of infants and boys. If'these erections be at all abnormal in frequency from any particular cause, a chronic inflammatory state of irritability may ensue, which may give rise to enuresis even in boys with no congenital weakness. As an illustration of this point I may cite the following case. Case IL—H. St., ^tat, 18, a gardener's apprentice, consulted