STEL'MPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 311 ov still more evidently when from this position they bring the index fingers near one another. Any mental emotion, any increased attention to the affected limb, increases the tremor, while, on the other hand, it may temporarily disappear if the thoughts of the patient are led away from it. The muscular rigidity in the back, legs, and elsewhere, is brought out by passive movements. It is not either a direct or reflex contracture, but probably originates, in most cases, from an unconscious voluntary innervation (see below). The examination of the reflexes often reveals noteworthy conditions. In anesthetic or analgesic parts, pricking with a -needle produces no skin reflex whatever, or only a very weak one. On the other hand, extremely active cutaneous reflexes are elicited from hyperiesthetic areas in the skin. The^ plantar reflexes especially are very often increased, though in other cases they may be quite absent. The superficial reflexes over the abdomen also vary very much, while the cremaster-reflex is almost always within its normal limits. The tendon reflexes are, it would seem, generally increased. It is only in the cases where there is great muscular straining in the legs when an examination is made that it can be difficult to elicit the tendon reflexes. I have never seen actual absence of the knee-jerk. In those patients in whom the knee-jerk is very active it is not uncommon to observe after the proper reflex in the quadriceps two or three pretty strong jerks of the whole limb. This symptom, which is observed also in nervous persons, doubtless depends on unconscious voluntary movement. It is obtained if one merely makes a feint of bringing down the stroke with the percussion hammer while not even touching the ligamentum patellee. Local trophic symptoms, especially muscular atrophies, are sometimes seen in the local form of the neurosis. In the general form we see in many cases a distinct alteration for the worse in the whole nutrition; this probably results, for the most part, from the insufficiency in the amount of food consequent on the want of appetite, from the disturbed character of the sleep, and from other such like causes. The fact that has been re- peatedly observed, that in some bad cases of traumatic neurosis the hair very quickly turns grey or falls out largely, must be due to a more directly nervous cause. It is natural that we should