91 MODES OF INFECTION. mankind from tuberculosis, if in place of a heredity whicli we can only with difficulty modify, we have to deal with various modes of extrauterine infection, the influence of which we can more readily examine and restrict. As a matter of fact, the means of infection in the child lie very close at hand and in great number. The intimate contact between the infant and its diseased mother or nurse, the kisses of its infected father, the contamination of its food with the bacilli, and the entry of the latter into wounds, all these are modes of infection against which the helpless child has no protection, and the weaker and the less capable of resistance its constitution is, the less protection can it have. Perhaps infection by means of milk containing bacilli or their spores comes in importance immediately after the direct infec- tion from the relatives. "From the frequency of tuberculosis among cattle, the danger from this source is very great, as milk coming from a diseased cow, when perhaps the udders themselves are the seat of tubercle, is infective in a very high degree. The recent experiments of Bollinger and his pupils in this direction have yielded noteworthy results. They found that the milk of cows affected with pleural or pulmonary tuberculosis can infect guinea-pigs, even when the udders are perfectly normal, and the animals themselves are in a very good state of nutrition. Of course the risk from this source is very much lessened on account of the custom of mixing up the milk of diseased with that of sound animals, and five minutes boiling gets rid of the danger altogether. People, however, are apt to display very great indifference towards insidious perils of this kind; even in edu- cated families far too little attention is paid to the source of the milk on which the infant is fed, and the regular boiling, where that is practised, is not looked after with the requisite strictness and care. If this last precaution is left to the cook, then it may be taken as tolerably certain that it is imperfectly done, and I advise you always, gentlemen, to urge on the mother the necessity of preparing the milk with her own hands. This can be best done by means of Soxhlet's apparatus, which, on the supposition that the mother looks after the cleaning of it herself, effectively excludes the possibility of danger to the infant from any micro-organic or chemical source. On the whole, as we stand at present, we are not yet in.a