TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. Gentlemen—The subject I have chosen for this address* will, I trust, have no little interest for you. For what I am going to speak about is certain morbid conditions in regard to which the physician at the present day, and in consequence of modern legislation, is frequently obliged to give a decisive opinion, and an opinion the formation and precise expression of which are often attended with no small difficulty. I believe, however, that these difficulties exist, not merely in the nature of the things themselves, but also, and perhaps even more, in the circumstance that in our appreciation of the morbid conditions in question we are not uncommonly too one-sided in our views, and leave out of account considerations of great importance. Although the cases I am about to speak of are of very common occurrence and, as you can understand, must necessarily have been known to the older physicians, yet the exact study of them has gone on only for the last twenty or thirty years. At all events, it was their frequent occurrence after collisions and such- like accidents that first drew the attention of railway companies' surgeons to them, especially as practical questions of damages were first raised in the case of railway servants. It is well- known that a particular clinical picture has been formed by English surgeons especially (Erichsen and others), which even in Germany we frequently call by its English name of " railway spine," the origin of which is commonly said to be the severe shock to the spinal cord which occurs in a railway accident. This name "railway spine," however, was plainly not very happily chosen. On the one hand, it must be at once noted that there evidently does not exist a certain kind of injury peculiar to railway accidents, and experience shows that precisely the same symptoms frequently result from other accidents of every description. On the other hand, a more careful consideration * An Address delivered to the Niirnberg Medical Society, on March Ist, 1883.