320 STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. sensibility, or (rarely) partial sensory paralysis (for pain, temperature, or touch). Motor symptoms may occur, either associated with those described above or in other cases alone. In their more trifling forms they appear as stiffness and awkwardness, which may reveal themselves in the peculiar position of the limb at rest, as mentioned previously, or more naturally in the voluntary move- ments. These symptoms must partly be looked upon as the result of the pain attending all movement, but chiefly as the result of the disturbance of voluntary innervation; this, instead of taking place in an easy and unforced manner, is carried out slowly and cautiously. Here also, as in the analogous symptoms in the general form of the affection, unconscious voluntary spasms play an important part in the production of the phe- nomena. In severe cases the stiffness becomes rigidity and complete contracture, so that almost all motion—active or passive— becomes impossible. This is most evident in the lower ex- tremities. The patients can, of course, neither stand nor walk, and are generally confined to bed. The affected leg is kept, as a rule, slightly flexed and rotated inwards. Every attempt at passive movement is apparently extremely painful. Sometimes the reflexes are much exaggerated ; at other times, in consequence of the contracture, they are only indistinctly made out. It is evident that these symptoms might easily produce the impression of an affection of the knee or hip-joint, and, indeed, some physicians who do not know of this common form of local traumatic neurosis have often allowed themselves to be deceived in this respect. But the diagnosis is hardly ever difficult. The general impression which the affection makes, the absence of all organic change in the joint, occasionally the association with angesthesia, in doubtful cases, lastly, the results of examination under chloroform, make the distinction from organic joint- disease easy. The names, " neurosis of the joint," or " neuralgia of the joint," which surgeons especially often use, appear to me to be improper in this respect, that they contain the presuppo- sition that there is an affection of the nerves of the joint. This is certainly not the case. We have to do here, as we shall see presently, with purely central disturbances. Flaccid paralytic conditions are much less common than the