250 ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. upholding. For in that case they occur in circumstances where there is no room for doubt as to the unity of the disease. For example, the infantile form may appear among children whose father has the juvenile form (observed by Duchenne, Landouzy- Dejerine, Troisier-Guinon and others), or different types may occur in a family in which the hereditary form has already gained a footing. These are, I think, very convincing proofs. I believe that the facts I have laid before you in the present state of our knowledge, and disregarding just now the proof from pathological anatomy, to which I shall return later, are sufficient to allow you to recognise in all the different types one nosological species. It is fitting that we should have for this a short distinctive name, and I proposed as such Dystrophia musmlaris 'progressiva. I still think that it is the best, and that it involves fewer assumptions than any of those that have been proposed by others.* Let us now sketch the clinical features of the disease as we learn them from a study of a sufficient number of cases of the various types. The picture thus formed will be a standard to go by in the differential diagnosis between progressive muscular dystrophy and other similar affections. It always begins very slowly and insidiously, and in many cases remains unnoticed for a long time, perhaps for years. It begins sometimes at one age, sometimes at another, but most commonly there is a preference (probably due to the influence of heredity) for childhood and infancy, though commencement about the time of puberty is not infrequent. Much more rarely it develops in later years and towards the fifties.. It begins generally in the trunk and proximal parts of the extremities ; sometimes the lower half of the body, including the pelvic girdle and thighs, is the first and most severely affected, sometimes the upper half with the shoulder girdle and upper arms. The earliest symptoms are weakness and exhaustion in the affected parts, with awkwardness in using them. Pain, paraesthesige, and other symptoms are absent. In a certain * The name chosen by Fr. Schultze,'- " Progressive muscular -wasting asso- ciated with hypertrophy," is too cumbrous, and scarcely suitable for others than Germans. The "Myopathic atrophique progressive " of Landouzy and Dejerine takes no account of the hypertrophy that is generally present. Charcot's'* " Myopathie progessive primitive " would suit best of all if it were only certain that the myopathy is primary.