215 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. almost as high as the left. In -walking right leg moves stiffly and drags a little with lifting of the pelvis. Fairly nourished, appetito good, no disturbances of sight or hearing. Still headaches brought on without any special cause, and with nocturnal exacerbations. These were very bad at the begiiniing of this year, and on that account he took to the iodide of potash again. No giddiness as a rule, but it comes on when he stands upon the slightest elevation {e.g., even when he gets up upon a chaii-). No other pains com- plained of. Feeling in arm and foot normally acute. The features of interest in this case are the rapid development and the great diversity of the pontine symptoms—paralysis of the left sixth, paresis of the left third, both facials, the hypoglossal, the glossopharyngeal, the inferior and superior laryngeal; hemiparesis of right half of the body ; involuntary movement backwards, vertigo, headache. Of this group of varied symptoms, which developed within less than a fortnight, those which gave rise to most alarm disappeared under the use of iodide of potash in the course of a few weeks. There remained after that only the paralysis of the left sixth, a slight degree of left hemiparesis, and traces of the difficulty in articulation and deglutition. The assumption is that the primary lesion in this case was a sj'philitic arteritis, running a tolerably acute course, and affecting the basilar or its branches, together with all the consequences of such a lesion. This receives sujoport from the variety of the symptoms referable to disturbances in both halves of the pons and medulla, with preference of the left half, and from the rapid success which attended the treatment by iodide of potash. We have a^few similar instances recorded by Heubner, Leyden, Eisenlohr, Eichhorst, and Buttersack, some of which have been completed by autopsy. Another case which came under our notice during life (already published by Dr. Rudolf v. Hosslin in the D. Archiv fiir klin. Med icin, vol. xxxvii.) had, besides other cerebral symptoms, great polyuria, and a course attended by fever. A man aged 34 contracted syphilis in the camp before Paris in 1871. In 1885, 14 years after, he was seized—he said in conse- quence of an injury to the head (a scalp wound from a blow with an iron bar)—with the following symptoms: violent headache and sickness, fainting fits, followed by tremors, giddiness, stagger- ing gait, especially when the eyes were shut, persistent fever of moderate height, and polyuria, the daily urine amounting to 210