LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 47 After what we have said, the reader will not feel surprised at my expressmg the opinion that I consider the action of the insects which produce galls to he jjerfectly specific, and moreover chemically specific, although at present it cannot yet be quite appreciated. The investigations by botanists on the primary processes m the formation of galls and the immediate causes of these, are of but recent date and still far from being conclusive. A. B. Franh, who occupied himself very much with this subject, gives us some hints in this direction. He says in a summary on the gall- formation: "The causes are, first, the still developing state of the part of the plant; and, secondly, the action of the parasites. We only know the manifestation of the phenomenon; the nature of the gall-forming stimiilus still remains veiled." We find in the youngest Acarocecidia that there frequently are no mites within, but that they are occupied by them only at a later period. This observation suggests the probability that the mites scarify these leaves, and at the same time introduce into them a substance which in the manner of a ferment exerts the continuous action of a formative stimulus on the plant cell. If then the cells enlarge after having been occupied by the mites, we must suppose that the latter keep up by their secretions a specific formative stimulus; this stimulus sometimes spreads from one surface of the leaf to the other. Particularly interesting are the felt-lihe diseases Filz-Kranlc- .heiten") of leaves, the hair Frineum") formations on leaves, in which the leaf suffers no alterations in shape; the mites lodge between the hairs and there produce their progeny. These hairs had formerly been considered as fungoid formations ; their colour mostly is very bright. They are very differently shaped on the leaves of different plants, but their form may also vary according to the part of the plant. They generally are unicellular forma- tions with a firm membrane, and frequently containing a coloured cell fluid. They are formed by excrescences of epidermic cells which, in their normal state, do not produce hairs either on the superior or the inferior surface of the leaf-blade before this has reached its normal size. It is still unknown whether these hairs are already produced by the eggs, or later on by the mites them- selves. Franl, in a most interesting and convincing manner, describes the origin of the pocket galls and leaf rolls by the prevalence of