336 PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. What then happens when this cause is at work, not in bo5''s previously robust, but "in those who are suffering from enuresis iiocturna, the result of arrest in the infantile stage, or of con- genital muscular weakness of the genital organs ? In such cases two causes are at work—the congenital and acquired vesical weakness, and the results are those obstinate and severe cases of enuresis which continue into manhood and are most intractable. As examples of this class I may adduce the following cases :—■ Case III.—At the end of October, 1883, S. P., fetat. 17, farming pupil, son of a professor of medicine, consulted me on account of obstinate nocturnal incontinence. The young man was fairly well-developed, and had suffered from infancy from this misfortune; two of his brothers were similarly afflicted, but they outgrew it between the ages of twelve and fourteeai. It occurred in the patient's case once or twice in the night in spite of every precaution and the careful regulation of his habits. He always had light digestible food, extremely little fluid, and never drank anything in the evening. In the course of the night he would be repeatedly awaked by the steward by means of a cord fastened to his foot. At one time it would occur imme- diately after falling asleep, at another soon after he had been awaked and passed water. Sleep was always remarkably heav}' and deep. In the morning he could scarcely be got out of bed, and then he was half-confused, and had difficulty in remember- ing things. Usually he had quite forgotten he had been awaked in the night. During the whole morning his head was heavy and oppressed. He was exceedingly dull of apprehension, and his condition only began to improve in the afternoon. Almost con- stant lassitude. Local examination of the genitals revealed nothing abnormal, though they were rather large. Urine normal; after standing some time, a slight cloud appeared at the bottom of the urine glass, consisting of mucus, round small epithelial cells, a few leucocytes, and a fair number of beautiful rhombic prism crystals (coffin-lid crystals *), as are met with at times in the mucus of Cowper's glands. From this discovery I could with certainty infer an irritable condition of the genital organs, and on my * From the resemblance to the lid of a German coffin; they are triple phos- phatea.—Translator.