ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA 74 devoted to the management of sucli patients, and conducted by medical specialists, are indispensable for many cases, especially for severe and obstinate n-eurastlienia. Milder cases, especially pure cerebral forms due to over-exertion and chiefly in need of rest, may be very well left free and sent to recuperate in a quiet mountain health-resort where good medical advice is to be had. I will mention later on the external conditions regard to which must be had. Isolation and asylum-treatment is absolutely indispensable for the more severe cases of the erethic form, with constitutional disturbance, emaciation, sleeplessness, dyspepsia, conditions of uneasiness. No treatment in the family is here of avail, least of all when undertaken amid the usual surroundings. Many cases get on at first quite well at home—a fact patent to every physician who allows himself to be persuaded by patient or friends to attempt a course of home-treatment. The novelty of the treatment exercises a stimulating influence for a while, and the physician's orders are obeyed at first. Soon, however, one recommendation or another is modified or left unfulfilled, the dietetic restrictions are overstepped, and then the relapses come on quickly. At last the treatment is only partly carried out, or given up altogether, because "it is no good." You will therefore do well, gentlemen, no less in your own interest than in that of the patient, not to undertahe a thoroughgoing course of this sort of treatment unless in a private institution, which aSords every guarantee for appropriate medical supervision and reliable execution of all recommendations down to the minutest detail. We have in Germany an abundance of good private institutions. Even a Eed Cross nursing establishment, or one of the Deaconesses must suffice if need be, although that important requirement, the constant presence of a house-physician, is not there complied with. In such cases an intelligent and reliable nurse must be provided, and all communication with relatives and friends prevented. All experienced neurologists agree that com- plete interruption of communication with the external world forms the foundation of successful treatment, while the factor next in point of importance is the attendance of a well-trained nurse, hitherto unknown to the patient. The well- known Weir-Mitchell treatment, which has also been recom- mended by Charcot, Playfair, Binswanger, Burkart, and others, and which has in my hands also yielded the most excellent