IIOFMEISTEK ON DIAHETES MELLITUS. 200 morning and evening. However, as soon as the first sj'mptoms of craving appear, restlessness, irritability, and painful sensations about the time usual for their administration, they must at once be stopped. As regards the alkaline mineral springs, Carlsbad stands first on account of its beautiful situation, its excellent arrangements for treatment, and the confidence which its old repute inspires in patients. It is undeniable that alkalies, in whatever combination, are sometimes capable of completely arresting, though only in the slighter forms of the disease, the secretion of sugar without resorting to anti-diabetic regimen. But in Carlsbad treatment almost always begins with placing the jDatient on rigid diet, and then gradually relaxing this until the limit of toleration of carbo-hydrates is reached. The inestimable value of this method consists in the period of toleration lasting much longer than with any other line of treatment. For once having determined the amount of bread, vegetables, and fruit the patient is able to take with impunity, provided he does not exceed this limit after the course of treat- ment, he may go on for some years, excreting either no sugar or but a small quantity, without feeling any the worse. This is not only the experience of Carlsbad physicians, but has been con- firmed by the most eminent members of the profession in Germany, whence the largest number of patients come. For many reasons it is preferable that the waters should be taken at the springs; where this is not practicable the patient should order twice a year twenty to twenty-five bottles—either Sprudel, Schloss, or Miihl water—gently warm the water to 40° R. (122° F.) and take it according to the prescribed rules in Carlsbad. If the physician makes periodic and judicious changes in the use of these three powerful therapeutic agents—anti-diabetic diet, opium, and alkalies—he will be able in many cases to prolong life considerably. This line of treatment does not prevent attention to symptoms. Hence sleeplessness should be combated by sulphonal, chloralamid, excitement by bromide of potassium, neuralgia by antipyrin, &c. Electricity may be used in cases of impotence, spirit lotions containing salicylic acid in pruritus universalis, and local treatment must not be omitted in eczema and furunculosis, &c. These are the leading features of rational therapeutics in Diabetes mellitus from the present stand-point.