199 IIOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. it appPcarecl veiy reasonable to administer tlie latter instead of sugar, just as we endeavoured to ligliten the work of the stomach in°cases of feeble digestion by giving peptones. Experience, however, left the theory in the lurch—lactic acid proved to be more harmful than useful. The antiseptics, phenol, salicylic acid, qninine, iodo- form, the modern panacea antipyrin, and all the rest, fared no better. Even the powerful drugs strychnine, arsenic, pilo- carpin, &c., have been long ago abandoned by most physicians, as their continued administration is an obstacle in itself. I find that an English physician, Squire, latterly has strongly recommended phosphorus -005 to -01 grm. {^'^ gr. to i gr.) twice daily. Corrosive sublimate finds support from some author whose name shall not be mentioned, who without any justification regards syphilis as a cause of diabetes in the majority of cases. Let us hope he will not entertain this opinion too long. The adminis- tration of cod-liver oil, which was xindoubtedly of great benefit in former times, has now become superfluous, owing to the admission of fat into the dietary. Hitherto, only three remedies liave stood in any degree the test of experience, and are most frequently prescribed. They are opium, morphine, and the alkaline waters which Carlsbad, Vals, Vichy, and Neuenahr offer. Opium, and still more so morphine, diminish the excretion of sugar with ordinary diet, at times completely arrest it, improve the nutrition and bodily weight, and cause the most troublesome symptoms to disappear, as long as they are adminis- tered, and even some time after they have been discontinued. Unfortunately, however, we are obliged to stop them after some months if we are not to make our patients opium-eaters or morphinomaniacs. Still, for a short period (4 to 6 weeks), or used alternately with alkaline waters and diabetic diet, they are extremely valuable, and in many cases indispensable. It is not yet explained whether they act by diminishing metabolism, or calming the nervous system, or have a specific influence over the disease itself. The great toleration of the two drugs is quite remarkable in diabetes. Incredibly large doses may be given without causing any of the usual drawbacks—obstinate consti- pation, drowsiness, and lethargy. Large doses can be given at the outset, opiura 1 dcgrm. (l-^), morphine 5 cgrm. (| gr.), and they may be increased till treble the amount is taken at each dose