48 BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF hyperplasias of the different leaf cells in a perfectly defined direction, whereby not only the formation of the pocket galls with their openings, but also the formation of the leaf roll becomes intelligible. (This interpretation of the mechanism of development vividly reminded me of the first researches by W. His on the mechanical causes of the formation of wrinkles in embryos, which subseqnently have proved so extremely suggestive of the evolution of forms of organisms.) Abnormal hair forma- tions occur in both cases. It is still unknown whether the eggs, during their development, or later on the mites, after hatching, call forth this development of cells. Parthenogenesis in the Aphidte continuing through many gene- rations having been observed, the formative irritation of the eggs, and of the young mite germs, must in this case be kept strictly separated. (Parthenogenesis may, in many respects, be compared with the vegetative multijDlication in plants.) " Many Aphidee suck themselves fast singly, in consequence of which these closely circumscribed places alone suffer an exces- sive expansion in the direction of the surface of the leaf blade, whereby the opposite surface of the leaf becomes pushed out^ and as it grows forms pockets or bladders which are sessile on the otherwise unaltered side of the leaf, and harbour in their interior the Aphidte and their brood " (FranJf). The investigations of galls of Biptera (flies) show that the formation of these in single cases had already been incited by the deposition of the eggs (probably by a secretion which, during this act, has been injected into the leaf, or by a secretion attend- ing the growth and development of the eggs). These leaf rolls are even in their younger state frequently found partly empty. " This might be interpreted in this way, that the gall-producing influence may not necessarily be combined with the deposition of the eggs" (Franl'). In this case it would only, therefore, consist in a chemical effect preceding the deposition of the egg. It has not yet been decided whether in the formation of galls by Bipteo-a on willows, poplars, beeches, alders, and linden, &c., " the egg has been deposited into the inner tissue at the very spot, or whether the young larva, after its development from the egg deposited already externally, has eaten its way to the site of the gall formation " (Franlc). The gall rvasps lay their eggs into the leaf, e.g., of the oak.