LciWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE 374 especially where the meninges are affected both in uncompli- cated chronic meningitis and in meningo-myelitis. But it IS in lesions of the cord of syphilitic origin that most is expected of it, and undoubtedly a large number of cases of this kind have benefited from iodide of potash. Yet, in my ex- perience, it is a very untrustworthy remedy in severe cases of syphilis of the cord if used alone, and mercury, especially in the form of inunction, is much more effective. Many physicians give the iodide along with inunction ; others recommend alter- nating courses of inunction and iodide. My own observations, however, lead me to believe the former to be the more effective. The important share which is now-a-days allotted by many observers to syphilis in the causation of locomotor ataxia made it inevitable that the attempt would be often made to arrest this disease by specific treatment. The time has not yet arrived when we can form a decisive opinion on the value of this method. A large number of authorities have reported favourably, among others, Rumpf particularly, then Fournier,'^ Erb,'^3 Eisenlohr,"^^ Keumont,^^ Benedict,'^*' Gowers," Pribram,'^ Schulz,^9 Berger,8o Hammond,«i and StriimpelP^^ Only a few cases, however, of complete recovery have been recorded (Rumpf, Fournier, Schulz, Berger, Landesberg^^), and in these it is at least questionable whether the symptoms depended on degener- ation of the posterior columns, and not rather, as Berger thought in his case, on other lesions, either meningitis or multiple neuritis. They were almost all cases in which the symptoms of tabes developed in a comparatively short time, and much more quickly, at any rate, than is usual in typical instances. Distinct improvement has been observed in a larger number of cases. But alongside these facts we must not fail to notice that in the great majority of cases of locomotor ataxia antisyphilitic treatment has proved useless, and that, frequently enough, the patients have even got worse under it. So far as my own ex- perience goes, as a whole, it has not been pai-ticularly favourable to the method. Yet in one syphilitic case in whom the symptoms of tabes developed in a few weeks, the use of iodide of potash along with hydro-therapeutics and electricity was followed in a relatively short time by complete and permanent recovery. But another similar case, in which, however, the existence of sjqDhilis was doubtful (patient had had a chancre, but no secondary