THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. —♦— The complete change wliicli Koch's famous investigations have wrought in our theoretical views of tuberculosis have also power- fully influenced, indeed completely revolutionised, our ideas of practice regarding it. So long as the nature of tuberculosis was unknown, the hypotheses in regard to it were formed in accord- ance with the notions fashionable at the time. At one time tubercle was a neoplasm, at another a specific infectious forma- tion, at another an inflammatory product. It was asserted—and simultaneously denied—that it originated from bronchial catarrh, from pulmonary hsemorrhage, from pneumonia, from inhalation of dust. Its contagiousness, too, was the subject of controversy. Its hereditary character alone was the one thing about it that always passed as incontestable, and recently this last also had been called in question. On this chaos of hypothesis and empiricism Koch's discovery suddenly threw a brilliant light, which has not only cleared up the heart of the matter, but has purified and advanced our knowledge of the subject in all directions. At one blow the old much-debated problem of the nature of tuberculosis was solved, and its parasitic character, and that of scrofula in all its forms and localisations, determined. I remember the great impression which Koch's first demon- stration in the laboratory of the Imperial Health Ofiice made on myself and on the other members of the Pharmacopoeia Commis- sion. Up to that time he had allowed nothing of his investigation to become public, and in demonstrating to us his preparations, and showing the way by which he had arrived at his discovery, he only yielded to our wish and that of the then director of the Health Ofiice, Dr. Struck. We saw laid bare before us in that unpretending laboratory, and in the most unassuming way, one of the greatest enigmas in pathology; the real character of the sorest scourge that afiiicts mankind. And the completeness and trustworthiness of Koch's solution of the problem was made