PEYER ON ASTHMA AND 278 and lasted longer. Periodic attacks of profuse perspiration, commencing when he was 20, which exempted him from military service, increased in spite of a naturally cheerful dis- position. Strange fixed ideas took hold of him, which he could not get rid of, although quite convinced of their absurdity. For instance, the idea oppressed him that his inside was not formed like other people's, and his first thought on seeing a stranger was what his inside might be like. Then he gradually got to believe, without the slightest reason, that he squinted with the left eye. He kept constantly looking in the glass, and, notwithstanding the evidence of his own senses and the assurances of the ophthal- mic surgeon he consulted that there was nothing wrong with his eyes, he could not get rid of this impression. Another idea was that he had a cough, and no arguments of his friends were sufiicient to disabuse his mind. However, it was only within the last year that his symptoms attained a serious degree. His despondency became so intense that he did not trust himself to be alone; even when taking a short walk he would have his wife and daughter accompany him. If asked how he was, his eyes filled with tears, and he cried before strangers just like a child. Sleep, which had formerly been good, had been disturbed during the last few years; now it was wretched, and he scarcely slept more than two or three hours, and then was troubled by oppressive dreams. He used to be an untiring worker; he was now alwaj's languid. Perspiration was so profuse that when he only stooped he became literally bathed in sweat. His fancied cough was now a reality, and pretty severe asthma was present. He could only go up a short flight of stairs with diSiculty, and then had to rest for some moments before he could speak a word. At night he spent hours sitting on a chair in order to obtain breath, and was consequently terribly afraid of going to bed at night. The attacks became severer and more prolonged. They came on without the slightest provocation, and were at times so intense that the patient, with body bent forward, cyanosed features, and thick swollen veins of the neck, clutched hold of the table, struggling for breath. This was his condition when he came under my care. Up to that time he had been treated b}^ several medical men for the lung affection and all his sufferings were referred to asthma. Shortly before a professor of medicine had recommended him to go to Corsica, but, not feeling strong enough