237 ERB ON TROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. part on loft side distiuctl}' hyportro])liiod, firm and hard, in the upper part rather atrophied; on right side througliout more atrophied, but in the lower part still hard and firm); supraspinati (strongly developed); infraspinati (on both sides distinctly hypcj-- trophicd, very hard and firm); terctes majores (on both sides rather thin); coracobrachialcs (very powerful and well developed);. flexors and extensors in the forearm (on both sides normal throughout and very strong); and the small muscles of the hand (all of them normal and acting well). The facial muscles also are perfectly normal. The upper arms are from 2 to 4 cm. less in circumference than the forearms. The forearms in the upper part are rather more • cylindrical in shape than usual. In the lower extremities there are very few changes to be made out; the thighs are almost quite normal, perhaps the tensor fascise is a little wasted. In the legs there is distinct weakness of the peroneal region on both sides, especially in the tibialis anticus muscle, which on the right side is also a little atrophied. The reeti abdominis are in good condition, and acting well, but the flat abdominal muscles are distinctly weak, and when the head is raised up from the lying position swellings of elastic consistence make their appearance in the sides of the abdomen. Muscles feel for the most part rather soft, but are nowhere tender. No fibrillar twitchings. Mechanical irritability in the affected muscles is everywhere distinctly lowered, especially in the peroneal region (tibialis anticus). Electrical irritability everywhere more or less lowered, especially to direct stimulation; no qualitative change, and nowhere even an approach to the reaction of degeneration. Sensibility perfectly normal. Skin reflexes normal, tendon reflexes absent in the upper arm (triceps and biceps), present in the forearm, active in lower extremity. Head, cranial nerves, special senses, internal organs, all per- fectly normal. Here, gentlemen, yon have a typical picture of the disease which I have described nnder the name of juvenile muscular atrophy. The case is in the medium stage of development. Turn your attention now to this next patient. 2. Max Mudrak, a locksmith, twenty-two years of age, apparently of a healthy family, among whom no affection of a similar nature to his own has been observed. Began his apprenticeship at fourteen years of age, and was obliged to work very hard. Not long after this his shoulder- blades were observed to stand out in a peculiar way, and by the time that he was eighteen this was very noticeable. From his