BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OV 10 more and more interesting results of inoculation with Anthrax haderia, and finally hjKoch^s new methods of cultivating microbes on solid nutritive mediums, which, for the time, explains the preceding observations, and thus within a short time the idea of " specific iiathogenic bacteria" became full}^ established, almost like Minerva sprung from Jupiter's brains. Even then I still hesitated; we only become partially acquainted by these experi- ments with the amphibious nature of these Algge ; their behavioui* against pigments offers only an external evidence. Chemists always mistrust a chemical substance which is only kno\^^lby its reactions, they demand an elementary analysis. We in like manner ought to survey the development of microbes in all their stages before we are justified in saying that we thoroughly know them. What we at present individualise by colouration as specific pathogenic forms, may be very deceptive characteristics of generic difterences. Algte are by their nature genuine aquatic plants; may not many of those which at present we distinguish as separate genera prove themselves to be merely different stages of a still unknown series of successive develop- ments ? Need I remind you of the fonnerly unsuspected connection between Tape-worm, Cysticercus and Echinococcus; of the history of the Pencillium; of so many Pleomorphisms ; of the Parthogenesis through numerous generations; of the manifold larval conditions of insects; of the sea-stars, &c. ? We still are uncertain whether we have to consider the different forms of the yeast plant as occasional vegetative forms of Fungus spores in fluids, or as a special genus of plant. All these considerations, however, become of but minor import- ance in view of the immense progress achieved, especially in etiologico-pathological respect, by the methods of Koch and his followers. The number of observations systematically pursued is overwhelming. A summary collection of these by Baiimgarten in his classical work (" Manual of imthological Mycologi/'' *) raises our imagination into the loftiest regions of a reliable etiology of the future, especially as regards the inflammatory processes and the zymotic diseases. It is a charm equal to the highest artistic enjoyment, to give oneself to the study of such a book with the warmest enthusiasm, as it contains the summary of the best scientific minds of our time. Where a vigorous movement * " Lehrbuch der pathologiachen Mykologie." Braunschweig, 1890.