PEYER ON ASTHMA AND 294 attack of gonorrhoea. Seminal emissions again became frequent, and difficulty of breathing returned, especially at night, just before falling to sleep. In 1885 he returned to Switzerland and placed himself again under my care. At present he is married and enjoys perfect health. Case XV.—Sexual Anomalies. Phrenic Asthna. In the middle of July, 1885, I was called to see Mr. Th., aBtat. 35, painter, who was suffering severely from some lung trouble. I found him in bed, thin and angemic. There was no fever, but he complained of great difficulty in breathing, and gave the following history: About three months ago, whilst at his work, he felt a peculiar constriction in the neighbourhood of diaphragm. He could no longer draw his breath properly, and felt as if his chest were in a screw-press. At the same time he had intense pain in the region of the stomach. It lasted half an hour, only to return, however, on the following day. This happened almost every day, and even several times on the same day. The duration of an attack was sometimes two or three hours, and the pain was intense. Latterly he suffered so much that he was scarcely able to follow his occupation. His former medical attendant told him that it was " spasm of the midriff," and I quite agreed with the diagnosis. Mr. Th.'s family history was as follows: His father was a robust and strong man; his mother, on the other hand, was nervous, and suffered greatly from headache, as also his only sister. As a boy he was vigorous and healthy; had a distaste for beer and wine, which always gave him a headache. When 15 he became apprenticed, and in the course of a month he lost flesh considerably, and suffered alternately from constipation and diarrhoea. Constant borborj^gmi and frequent nocturnal emissions. When 18 he went to America, where he was constantly work- ing in the open air, and felt relatively better than during his apprenticeship. When 19, after prolonged constipation, he had severe headache, which lasted from morning to night, disappearing with vomiting. Henceforth, these attacks of megrim constantly recurred, obliging him to remain in bed, and even on the next day he was scarcely fit for work, feeling quite exhausted and stupid. He especially noticed that sexual intercourse produced megrim the next day.