ZIEMSSEN ON SYrHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 211 winch is affected. There are no doubt cases in which, as we at present stand, it is impossible to draw a distinction between the two forms during life. Those well on in years who have contracted syphilis in earlier life are instances of this. In them thromboses or hasmorrhages in the neighbourhood of the sylvian fissure, or aneurisms of the basilar or internal carotid may occur, and without prodromal symptoms for any length of time quickly lead to a fatal issue. Prodromal symptoms going on for a long time have appeared to many to be elements of particular importance in the diagnosis of syphilitic vascular disease; and they are unquestionably of some value in cases occurring in younger individuals, but they cannot lay claim to much significance in those more advanced in years, for in the case of atheroma occurring in the latter long before the larger branches are completely obliterated we may have symptoms of ischaemia in regions supplied by the smaller twigs. These symptoms may completely disappear through establishment of the collateral circulation, but may again and again recur in the same or some other way, always, however, by preference in the region of the sylvian artery. Valuable indications may be gained by the results of ophthal- moscopic examination of the arteria centralis retinse and, its branches. At any rate that is my dediiction from an observa- tion, which, in association with Dr. v. Hosslin and Surgeon-Major Seggel, I have had an opportunity of making on a patient of my own. In this case, that of a robust gentleman of about 35 years of age. the diagnosis of brain syphilis was previously tolerably certain. Besides the history, we had the occurrence of severe epileptiform attacks, various pareses, &c. Intelligence and mental functions were quite normal.. Complaints of disturbances of vision led to repeated examinations of the fundus by Surgeon-Major Seggel. The first examination about the end of the second week of treat- ment, showed thickening of the walls of the arteries, absence of the double contour in their outline, and a rather washed-out papilla. Ten days later, during which the mercury and iodide were continued, the double contour was again indicated, though the walls were still thickened and the papillce were more distinct. After another ten days, during which inunction and internal administration of the iodide were continued with great energy, examination showed the thickening of the walls gone, the double contour even in the smaller vessels again distinctly visible, and