ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 207 .lucl discoveries. The question started by 'Fournier as to the causal relations between syphilis and locomotor ataxia has given rise to a very active discussion; and the connection between syphilis and general paralysis of the insane is a subject which is ah-eady represented by a literature of its own. I shall begin witli consideration of Syphilis of the Brain. Syphilis may make its appearance within the cranium in four different forms. 1. As syphilitic disease of the bones of the skull and its internal periosteum the dura. 2. As chronic syphilitic lepto-meningitis, in other words, as a true periencephalitis analogous to syphilitic perihepatitis. 3. As syphilitic disease of the arteries. •I'. As syphilitic disease of the substance of the brain itself, infective granuloma. This appears either as a circumscribed o-umnia or as a more diffused infiltration of the brain substance. The two last-named forms, syphiloma of the brain and sj^Dhiloma of the cerebral arteries, are not only by far the most common, but it seems generally occur in association. For the understanding of the multiform almost kaleidoscopic pictures presented by the sjninptoms of cerebral syphilis, this is of some importance. Let us look first at the general features of these affections. Syphilitic disease either of the dura or pia is attended with the symptoms of chronic meningitis. The evidences are those of difi'use or circumscribed irritation of the membranes, combined with irritative disturbances of the cortical functions, with absence of localising symptoms. Taking precedence of all the symptoms is the violent headache which at times, especially during the night, l)ecomes intolerable. Thereafter the other features of irritation of the cortex, sleeplessness, excitement, inability to think, weakness of memory, hallucinations, and illusions. Focal lesions may be added if the meningeal process penetrates into the brain-substance. This last-named occurrence, which appears to be not at all uncommon, will give rise, if at the base or in the motor areas of the cortex, to distinct motor and sensory derangements which may form a guide to the localisation of the lesion. Or, on the other hand, the hypertrophied tissue of the pia may gradually shrink, producing, if on the convex surface, lesion of the cortical centres, and if at the base, constriction of the cranial nerves. As