263 ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. time, there would remain the possibility that even this merely functional disturbance might in the long run become associated with a coarse lesion of the centres. Many things about these affections would agree very well with such a supposition, among them the occasional occurrence of the reaction of degeneration in dystrophic cases and the occasional initial localisation of spinal amyotrophy in the shoulder and trunk. But I will not spin out this discussion to any greater length ; the whole question is by no means yet ready for decision, and the future alone can lift the veil and reveal the finer processes that as yet lie hid from us. Coming back from this digression to the clinical aspects of the disease, we have yet to say something about etiology. We know very little of its causes. The most certain thing about it in this connection appears to be its hereditary character; at any rate, this holds good for a majority (about three-fourths) of the cases. It not unfrequ.ently occurs as a family disease, and can be traced through several generations; in cases of this kind there can scarcely be a doubt as to the hereditary trans- mission of the affection, or at least of the predisposition. But it often happens that two, three, or more cases occur in one generation only, and here we may probably assume some influence proceeding from the parents, though it is not necessary to suppose this in every case. Marriage between blood-relations sometimes seems to act as a factor, and in one of my cases the parents are cousins, the children of twin brothers, thus standing in the closest conceivable relationship in which a legal marriage is permissible. In another, the father had suffered from a severe injmy. What I found to be of most frequent occurrence was the existence of neuropathic and psychopathic tendencies, but even this was present only in 8 out of 18 families. Many cases occur, however, quite in an isolated way ; in certain of these no doiTbt the history may be defective, but the disease must always make a beginning with someone, and it remains to be seen whether in these instances it is transmitted to the posterity. All the other causes which have been blamed—overstrain, injury, influences affecting the mother in pregnancy (injurj'-, mental agitation), acute infectious diseases, &c.—are of so little relative importance and so rarely present that they hardly deserve mention.