SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 125 increasing in size towards tlie interior, assumed a spherical or polygonal shape, became larger, and so niTmerous that at some places no distinct fibrous tissue between was any longer visible Very rich vascularisation of the endothelioid layer continued close to the inner surface. At the sharply defined inner border, here and there flattened cells, and regular thougli extremely delicate bands of fibres. (See Tab. I., fig. o.) (7) a" lad, seventeen years old (Ambulance, May, 1889), two months ago run his hand through a window-pane, inflicting a small wound, which bled profusely, but healed up in eight days. Swelling followed, impeding the movability of the fingers, but soon commenced to mend again, so that the patient was able to do any kind of work (chopping wood, cleaning boots, &c.) Later on the swelling returned. After an incision through the thickened callous skin on the palmar side of the hand, a glass splinter 2-5 cm. long became visible, which stood almost upright on the surface. No fluid escaped from the incision, only the membranaceous investment of the splinter was seen ; the latter at one side appeared dull, as if ground. (8) Steel needles. It is to be mentioned, as regards excised needles which had been healed-in for a longer period, that these lay in a small canal of connective tissue, with walls of different thickness, containing serum, or directly in a small callosity without any considerable exudation of fluid. A needle which lodged for'sLx months in the cutis of the thumb was tightly enclosed by a firm, but at the same time delicate capsule of connective tissue. Another needle sticking in the thumb was enclosed by a cystic capsule. I extirpated from the palmar side of the hand, near the wrist, a firm capsule of connective tissue, containing a needle healed-in for several months, and a small quantity of serum. The microscopical examination of its walls hardened in sublimed picric acid, and afterwards in alcohol, showed in the external layers concentric bands of connective tissue, with a great amount of pigment, and in the inner vascular layer large cells with a distinct nucleus undergoing division, embedded in the meshes of the scarce, irregularly arranged connective tissue. The innermost border consisted in some places of endothelioid connective tissue corpuscles, or of a delicate fibrous layer. (See Tab. II., figs. 2 and 3.) Eespecting the above- mentioned abundant brownish-red pigmentation in the external