76 ZEIMSSEN ON NEURASTHE;NIA tending and pleasant society. The unaccustomed enjoyment of abundant fresh air, a little mountain climbing, the beautiful Alpine scenery, bring about interior satisfaction, good appetite and sleep; they quickly gain in strength and weight, and feel wonderfully elated by the sensation of renewed freshness and muscular vigour. Climatic treatment of this kind, whenever possible, is essential to such patients twice a year—in spring- after the heavy winter's work is done, and in late summer to acquire strength for the coming winter. Even a brain severely burdened with mental toil may thus preserve its functional activity. The elevation of the mountainous locality has not, as regards the result, the significance generally attributed to it. The elevated valleys, especially of Graubiinden, are every year visited by thousands of neurasthenics requiring recuperation, and, according to my experience, there is no doubt that very excellent results are obtained at Pontresina, St. Moritz, Samaden, &c. But similar results are just as often observed in health resorts of medium elevation, i.e., between two and four thousand feet, of which there are so many in the Bavarian mountains, in the Baden highlands, in the Salzkammergut, in Tyrol, and in Switzerland. In the selection of the suitable place the only essential conditions are, that it be not inclosed in a narrow valley, but situated rather in the open; that points from which exten- sive views can be had be readily accessible; that the residence be not too quiet and monotonous; and that the attendance be good, especially the cuisine. For spring and autumn treatment I prefer the climatic health resorts of the Etschthal, especially Meran, to the places on the North Italian lakes or those on the Riviera. The brisker move- ment of the air, the fresh mountain wind which prevails at Meran during March and April, and which the iwitrinaires so often complain of, exercises a much more potent influence on neurasthenics than the relaxing air of Italy. I come now to the treatment of the numerous neurasthenics whose circumstances do not permit them to go abroad. In these cases the treatment must be conducted in suitable combination with their professional duties and domestic relations. And here also a very great deal may be accomplished with goodwill on both sides.