TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 371 and Stronger, such as caustic pastes, moxas,* and the actual cautery. Midway between these two classes are setons and issues, and the repeated application of faradic electricity with strong currents. Experience teaches that in the class of casds we are at present discussing, not much is to be looked for from the milder derivatives; they may be used at times, however, as aids to other methods of treatment, or applied for particular symptoms, especially pain in the back. Setons and issues have fallen very much into discredit in Germany. Yet Dujardin- Beaumetz^i considers the seton to be one of the most powerful revulsives, and holds that it is particularly indicated in lesions of the brain and upper part of the cord. Stroking the back with strong faradic currents is a very powerful cutaneous stimulant, and can be applied as often as we like, as it produces merely trifling and transitory changes in the skin. But whether this method by itself is capable of producing permanent effect seems to me to need proving, and while it is a very painful proceeding, we can also hardly look upon it as under all circumstances quite harmless. The best counter-irritants are the stronger ones, especially the actual cautery, the beneficial effects of which in some spinal affections are not to be denied: Its application, however, is not without various difficulties and even dangers. It is well known that spinal cases are very subject to trophic disorders of the skin, and that wounds in such cases heal with some difficulty. Especially where there is anesthesia, there is very great danger that any destruction of tissue, whether intentionally produced for therapeutic reasons or accidental, may extend further. Moreover, in the lower parts of the back even very slight irritation of the skin may lead to the so justly dreaded bed-sores. Finally, there may be considerable pain caused, and the general well-being interfered' with on that account; there may be disturbance of sleep in * consequence of the difficulty of lying on the back; and in certain circumstances there may be loss of strength from pro- fuse suppuration. Tor all those reasons pustulants and caustic pastes, and even the actual cautery have been falling recently more and more into disuse, and p' }sicians are contenting them- selves with employing Pacquelin's thermo-cautery to produce the * The moxa is a form of cautery which has Ion passed out of use in this country. The most usual moxa was a pellet of cotton wool soaked in nitro.—T/-