82 ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA day. When tlie subject is very sensitive the physician will do well to include himself at first in the chain, and to go over the patient's skin with his own damped hand for an electrode. That is certainly the mildest, the most soothing form of superficial electrisation. The constant current has no special effect applied in this way. Its application in obstinate organic neurasthenias, e.g., of the stomach, intestine, sexual organs, heart, or head, is much more important. The constant current is here of inestimable value as a sedative. In order to develop its full effects however—a point to which I drew attention a considerable time ago—it is absolutely necessary to introduce the current by means of very large electrodes, i.e., with a large sectional area, or else in great quantity, but with slight tension, at any one point of the surface of contact. The eftects on pain or uneasiness affecting these organs, on their functions and on the general condition, are in the majority of cases very favourable, in many, actually brilliant. I cannot go further into detail in this place; you will find par- ticulars about mode of application and effects in my work " Electricity in Medicine." Massage is the third member of the alliance, and is just as useful as the agents just named, and for that reason suitably combined with them, at least at first, in the following way: massage and general electrisation should be applied on alternate days, while hydrotherapy should be daily carried out. In the beginning massage ought to be used gently, and for a short time only (fifteen to twenty minutes), and be gradually extended to one or two hours daily. It is proper to begin with gentle pinching of the skin, in other words with purely mechanical stimulation of the sensory nerves, and with gentle pressing and kneading of the muscles. The vigour of, and the extent of sur- face included in, the movements of pinching, stroking, kneading, percussion, and squeezing, should be gradually increased, so that the patient finally gets to feel after the massage as though he had been thoroughly beaten. The effect is very favourable and lasting. The sensibility of the body, the pains, the nervous unrest and sleeplessness, are favourably influenced by massage, whilst on account of the in- creased muscular metabolism, food-requirement, and assimilation are promoted. These effects are explicable on the one hand by