25 LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. becomes thin and pale. The whole process has definitely terminated, it has attained its permanent state. Why so ? That we know as little as we know why, in general, growth ceases or commences. We must here again fall back upon the idea of " hereditary tmdency," which means about as much and as little as " Kismet." We know several causes ivhich are able to increase the forma- tive irHtahility after injury. In the first place, foreign bodies, e.g., coagidated blood, between the edges of the wound or between the separated tissues in general. The serum which during coagulation had been pressed out, is absorbed, and the clots only temporarily remain. We already have discarded as erroneous the former view that coagu- lated blood may be converted into living tissue. On the contrary, it acts as a formative stimulus, the siun^ounding tissues having reverted to a foetal condition, grow into the coagulum, act upon it, liquefy it and take its place, whilst behind it permanent tissue class the connective tissue, the muscles, and the nerres, we in general suppose that they, provided there be no special formative stimuli in action, are ''fully developed" as soon as the growth of the whole organism ceases. At this moment all the granular protoplasm around the nuclei, barring some most minute remains, will have been converted into fibrous tissue. This we consider to be the final state decreed by Fate in the individual animal body in which it henceforth will persist for a longer or shorter term. If we now observe, e.g., in divided muscular fibre, that Karynkinesis,* commences in the stump, that at the same time granular protoplasm forms round the new nuclei, and that this process continues for several days, so that the end of the stump of muscular fibres now entirely consists of nuclei and granular protoplasm, if we moreover observe how this protoplasm separates and attaches itself to the individual nuclei and is con- verted into striped muscular fibrillse, and how the muscular fibres now somehow grow out of the sarcolemma of the old one, then we call this process " rejavenes- cence" (" Jungwerden") of the muscular tissue, the amputated fibres and fibriJlae of which could not at once grow out, but at, and between these, new granular protoplasm had first to be formed, so that the new muscular fibres were produced in the same manner as we had observed in their development in the embryo. It is not my intention to enter here more fully into processes of regeneration which take place in a gradually more complicated manner in other kinds of tissue, in which, in essentials, the same processes are observed. Let us therefore retain the term and the interpretation of ''Eetum to the embryonic state " (" Embry- onalwerden") of tissues in the regenerative processef, until these observations have been proved erroneous or the interpretation of these observations as absurd. * Note by Ihe Translator.—Karyoldnesis (Kopuov "walnut," also UTicleus, Kivem "I move") is the process of division of cells (in the tissue cell) as far as it passes through a series of certain successive alterations strictly according to the law, in the interior of the nucleus, whereby the latter find expression in the different arrangements of the formed constituents of the nucleus (nucleus corpuscles) and retiform framework of the nucleus.