HOFMEISTEK ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 192 ■but bread, made from fine wheat whicli has been coarsely ground (hence termed whole meal bread) without separating the bran. The meal simply retains the bran, the chief constituent being flour for all that, whereas in bran bread, the bran, to which only a small amount of starch unavoidably adheres, is the chief ingre- dient. This error appears to be pretty prevalent with the public, and hence it is never superfluous to mention this matter to the patient. All such bread substitutes are only useful in a small number of cases, partly owing to their insipidity, partly to their high price, and still more on account of their indigestibility. Usually patients give them up after a short time, and whenever I can, I avoid even mentioning them. Other cereals (rye, oats, barley, &c., and their various preparations) of course are just as harmful as wheat and its products. Next to these in point of starch contents come pulse, peas, beans, and lentils, then rice, potatoes, maize, sago, tapioca, arrowroot, and other tree and field produce, which are scarcely known by name in this country and need not be mentioned. Each and all are to be struck out of the dietary, as they contain from 50 to 80 per cent, of starch. ■ Of other vegetables generally used as articles of diet, the following must be avoided on account of their relative richness in carbo-hydrates: carrots, kale-turnips (kohl-rabi), horse- radish, garlic, onions, and celery. The following may be permitted in moderation : sour-kraut, cauliflower, broad-beans, turnips, mushrooms, truffles, artichokes, radishes and black radish (a large turnip radish). The following may be used in larger quantities: spinach, French beans, cabbage, lettuce and other greens used in salads (cabbage-lettuce, endive), watercress, seakale, gherkins, asparagus, and sorrel. The last must be avoided if oxaluria be present. Of the various kinds of fruits the following must be forbidden under all circumstances as the ihost harmful: grapes, melons, plums, figs, bananas, pears, chestnuts, peaches, apricots, and other sweet indi- genous and foreign fruits. Strawberries, raspberries, currants, crab-apples, bitter cherries, oranges, al- monds, and hazel-nuts in moderation may be allowed. AValnuts may be eaten with impunity. As regards beverages, milk must be considered first and