8 BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF I ■ considered as saprophytes, appeared and produced that condi- tion generally known as fetid putrescence. By the transmission of these microbes into suppurating wounds, into the urine and the saliva, after they had been accustomed to a certain change of matter in putrid tissue fluids, they likewise could, when taken up in suppurating wounds, in the urine and the saliva, call forth processes of fermentation and putrescence, and thus become secondary causes of disease. Influenced, I willingly admit, by the authority of my friend Ch'iesinger, I regard the microbes as the undoubted vehicles of contagia, but I had not yet conceived the now generally current idea of ixutliogenic bacteria.^' Though the anthrax bacilli were already known, there was still much divergence of opinions on their significance. How then are these microbes constituted ? In what manner do they act ? How do they behave in fermentation ? How in putrescence ? There was then a chaos of the most minute living organisms known by the name of ^'Infusoria"; from these we had to start in our investigations. The Vibriones" were still considered by the majority of physicists to be animalculi; the notion of the Sivarm-spores" (" Schwarm-Sporen") of plants had scarcely yet found its way into medical circles. Now-a- days, when everything has been so well arranged and classified, no one can form an idea of the amount of pains and difiiculties it caused to me gradually to separate the individual forms of Cocci and Bacteria, to construe the terms Coccus, Diplococcus, Streptococcus, Streptobacteria, Gliacoccus, Petalococcus, and Ascococcus, to recognise that they are composed of a plasma and a wall, to trace their conditions of growth, and finally clearly to understand that they belong to the Alcjce, that Zygospores or Besting-sjjores (" Dauer-Sporen") and Vaciioli form in them, that they are liable to vesicular degenerations, and that their membranes sometimes develop into thick mucous investments, and in what manner this can to a certain degree be brought about by the nutritive medium Nfihrboden&c. Each newly appearing form led again in a roundabout way to new investigations on the Algae and Fungi, in order to gain some- how a morphologic support. The whole task was carried out on too broad a basis, it was far beyond my botanical and chemical knowledge. No one could more keenly feel the shortcomings J