248 ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. forms? You know that already we have quite a number of them. Pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis has long had a position of its own, and the enlargement of the lower extremities, the fatty deposit on the muscles, and the peculiar attitude and gait might seem distinctive enough. Then Leyden ^ brought forward his hereditary muscular atrophy, and gave as its pathognomonic characters heredity and commencement in the back and lower extremities. I followed ^° with juvenile muscular atrophy, distin- guished by its beginning in the upper half of the body, a peculiar localisation, the presence of muscular hypertrophy, and the absence both of fibrillar twitchings and the reaction of degeneration. Lastly, we have had lately a form that Duchenne had described as infantile muscular atrophy, but now brought forward by Landouzy and Dejerine under the name " myopathic atrophique progressive," as an independent and, indeed, as the most important form of the disease. Nor would it be difficult to specialise still further, and extend this list, as you can see from a perusal of Eajnnond's recent exhaustive work.^* The longer I have occupied myself with the question, and the wider my experience of these forms has grown, the more has the conviction forced itself upon me that they all present one and the same disease. I am satisfied that, while in subordinate features such as the time and rate of development, the initial localisation, quantitative difierences in the individual symptoms, particularly as regards the amount of hypertrophy, they may differ from one another, yet in all essential points they thoroughly agree. The proof of this clinical unity of those forms must, in the first instance, of course, be deduced from clinical material, but, from the number of my own cases and from a record on the part of others which has gradually grown to be very large, we have no difficulty about that. First of all we must establish the fact that the separate forms agree with one another in the following particulars: The development and the localisation of both the atrophy and the hjrpertrophy in the muscles; the condition of the latter, as ascertained by inspection and palpation, by their mechanical and by their electrical reaction; and, lastly, the absence of all other symptoms. Now, that they do agree in these respects you have already seen, even from the few cases I have shown you. A more extended series of observations would bring it out with