132 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. (10) Glass-wool was placed between the adductor muscles of the thigh of a rabbit; sutures in stages. Six weeks after complete healing-in had taken place, so that the incisions in the several layers of the soft parts could no longer be perceived. The wool was intimately attached to the muscles, no trace of cystic spaces, altogether no serum. The centre of the foreign body (glass- wool), which was also perfectly dry, was at the same time of brownish-black colour, and on superficial examination apparently not grown through by connective tissue. Hardened in a ^ per cent, solution of chromic acid, in the sections, the muscular fibres entering between the glass-threads show no transverse bands, but longitudinal fibrillation. More distant from the muscles there was connective tissue between the glass-fibres, roundish cells of endothelial character, here and there at the same time very numerous vessels in an indistinct clear inter- stitial substance. On the glass-fibres, as well as on the cells, frequently amorphous pigment. The centre of the glass-wool contained only detritus and pigment. {See Tab. IL,fig- 4.)^ (11) Glass-wool placed in the defect of the cancellated portion of a vertebra of a dog, was found intimately adherent after eight days, and permeated by wandering cells. In the microscopical section, after hardening in chromic acid, besides the wandering cells, the fibrillation of the coagulated fibrine could also be easily recognised. The marrow in the neighbourhood of the injury ot the bone contained no fat-cells, whilst these were distmctly present at some greater distance. (12) Glass-wool placed in the abdominal cavity of rabbits was found intimately adherent, mostly to the intestines and the ab- dominal wound. . 7 7 77 , -^1 (13) Leaden projectUes, and especially conical hullets with a circular groove at the blunt end, were in several instances placed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue of rabbits, in the reo-ion of the adductor muscles, and in the groin, they were found after four weeks in a cystic space with moderately fimi walls the inner surface of which presented a velvet-like gloss. Under the microscope, enlarged connective tissue corpuscles were visible in the innermost layers, of which again the ""^^ boundary was undergoing molecular disintegration. A bul et healed-in under the skin of the back, showing numerous cracks and roughnesses, appeared on superficial .examination after five