ERB ON rROGHESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 254 stage at which the disease has arrived, the individuality of the patient, and the family type, all help to produce these modifica- tions. To go into a description of the possible varieties on this occasion is quite superfluous. But there is still something more to ascertain to complete the necessary precision and objectivity of the description. The atrophied and hypertrophied muscles on palpation show changes in their consistence which are often very marked. Sometimes they are soft and flaccid, with the feeling of a fatty growth, at other times elastic and firm. On active contraction they may form irregular nodular tumours, and easily pass into a condition of tonic spasm or cramp, The mechanical irritability is mostly lowered, often in a very marked degree. The faradic and galvanic irritability is always lowered in the atrophied muscles and frequently in the muscles which are enlarged ; but if there is true hypertrophy the electrical irritability may remain normal. There is no reaction of degeneration.* You will further find that fibrillar contractions are as good as never present.f That is, not reckoning as such the muscular tremors and twitchings * I must stand by this statement, in spite of the fact that in my first paper I spoke of the absence of the reaction of degeneration as by no means absolutely certain, and although in one case (described by Fr. Schultze) at an advanced stage, I ascertained for myself that this reaction was quite distinctly present in various muscles. Several observers have, indeed, asserted its occurrence ; but even if I grant that what they saw was actually the reaction, and not something like it, some slowness of contraction, or such like peculiarity erroneously taken for it—my own experience has taught me that an error like this is quite possible— nevertheless, from numerous careful observations I can only repeat that the absence of degeneration in the dystrophic affection is almost without exception the rule. I shall have more to say of this afterwards. t In regard to this statement, also, I have been criticised a good deal, and accused of being in error. If in one case, for example, a muscle (the masseter) that was not even for certain affected at all, showed fibrillar twitchings, while in the rest of the body in which the disease had reached an advanced stage nothing of the sort was seen, even with long observation, it has been thought quite justifiable to say that the statement above is unwarranted. The same criticism is made when, in another case, fibrillar twitchings had been noticed (so it is said) on the first day, but never again in the course of several weeks' observation. Such remarks correct themselves, the exception simply proving the rule. In spinal muscular atrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, fibrillar twitching is always present and widely distributed, but from a large experience of progressive muscular dystrophy, I must hold to my assertion that the absence of such twitching is in this disease the almost invariable rule. Even if here and there it is observed, we must remember that its occasional or even constant occurrence in neurasthenic, and, indeed, in healthy people, is not so very uncommon.