SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 142 defects of bone ; e.g., after operations for necrosis, after the removal of tuberculous foci, or as supports in the form of round pieces of glass for filling up the spaces left by the removal of the metatarsal or metacarpal bones. In animals the glass- wool, employed as a substitute for the resected femoral condyle, answered the purpose, a normally movable healthy knee-joint having been produced. For filling up cavities in bones Winiwarter employed jodoform- gauze, and N. Senn decalcified bone-shavings; for a similar purpose, as filling material, Schede used blood, and Billroth employed jodoform-glycerine, both successfully — jodoform- glycerine principally owing to its antiseptic action. On the other hand, blood and other kinds of absorbable substances are, of course, not to be used as supports for thin shells of bone, as would be desirable in caries, e.g., of the calcaneum, and, of course, also not as substitutes for the extirpated bone. Only ivory has hitherto, as far as I know, been used for supports. Professor Rose, of Berlin, showed me two years ago a patient in whom the shaft of the tibia had been replaced by an ivory rod. I have been led by manifold considerations to a future employ- ment of glass in the form of glass-wool. Porous, fibrous materials, silk, gauze, as a rule, heal-in by being permeated by connective tissue, in such manner that they finally grow into a more or less firm cicatrix. A similar result was to be anticipated from the glass-wool. The production of firm resistent tissue, i.e., cicatrices, is the aim of all the so-called radical operations for hernia. I, therefore, two years ao-o, introduced glass-wool into the aperture of a crural hernia, in order to produce, by means of an mabsorbable material, consisting of delicate fibres, a persistent cicatrix. Seven years ago I tried Schwalhe's method of injecting alcohol in inguinal hernia, in a greater number of cases, both in Professor Billroth's clinic and in the out-door patient depart- ment. The immediate results were very satisfactory ; callous shrivelling of the hernial opening took place (never accompanied by any unfavourable incidents), although the final result must be considered as perfectly unsatisfactory, as the callosity and the constriction of the hernial opening had in every case dis- appeared in a few months, and the hernia, consequently, had formed again. In two cases, afterwards, the production of