315 STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. cord, do not in all cases completely retrogress, and that there is sometimes left behind a certain material, though subtle, disturb- ance, the nature of which is still unknown to us. The conse- quences of a disturbance of this kind are naturally not the same as those which follow a coarse localised lesion, but they show themselves probably in the muscular weakness, the mental change, the diminution of sensory activity, &c., which we have detailed above. It is perfectly impossible to decide at present which of all these symptoms are organic in origin and which are psychical, i.e., produced by mental ideas ; and, in addition, there is the uncertainty as to how far the mental disturbance, as such, may have an organic origin, and how far in its turn it may give rise to fresh bodily disturbances. The view of traumatic neuroses we have here taken is of practical importance in this way, that it lets us understand many cases where there are no mental elements among the causes, and others where the influence of such elements has been over- come wdiile the symptoms continue practically unchanged. The disease occurs not only among the working classes where, naturally enough, the mental factor must play a great part, but among other ranks, for example, among officers in the army who have, been thrown from horseback. And all observers further have noted the fact that, even after the patients have been made quite at ease in regard to their external circumstances, very often no essential improvement follows. In the case of the injured work- man, if he has at last got a favourable settlement of his accident insurance claims, and has been made definitely certain of full . compensation, the symptoms do not, as a ru.le, come to an end. He remains moody and spiritless, his morbid feelings continue to be as before, and the sensory and motor distiwbances are unchanged. As a matter of fact many cases appear to be incurable. It is of the greatest practical moment to be aware that there is this very unfavourable prognosis in severe cases of general traumatic neurosis. I have often seen medical certi- ficates in which the opinion was expressed that, with sufficient care and proper treatment, an improvement in the condition might in time be looked for. The supposed trifling character of the symptoms, and the absence of everything of a grave or critical nature among them, certainly seem in many cases to justify such a view ; and yet experience almost always teaches