SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 128 carpus, was peeled out without opening the sheath of the tendon or the articulation. Drainage and union by sutures of the wound. The patient was discharged cured on July 15th. The extirpated tumour was distinctly pear-shaped; an hour-glass- like constriction, which existed whilst the tumour remained in its site, disappeared after dividing a few muscular fasciculi. (See On opening the cyst an amber-yellow serous fluid, whitish- yellow grumous masses, and a piece of metal escaped. The firm interior wall of the cyst was of yellowish-white colour, uneven, with, at some places, trabecular or wrinkled prominences, of a nodular surface, whilst the other places were perfectly smooth.^ The chemical examination of the amber-yellow fluid proved its richness in albumen and mucin. There were, moreover, traces of dissolved lead (Br. SmUa), but there was no sugar. The mi<yro- scoincal examination o^ the soft grumous substance showed detritus of disintegrated granular cells, and red and white blood-corpuscles. The latter may have found admission in the opening of the cyst, as some blood oozed from the incision of its walls. The foreign tody lodged in the cavity was of cylindrical shape, 21 mm. long, 9 mm. in diameter, and consisted principally of lead. The almost perfect smoothness of its surface was only interrupted by shallow furrows and pits; it was of grey, at some places of pale brown colour, and nowhere encrusted. (See fig. 8.) The cyst-wall, with the view of histological examination,, was treated, one portion with a solution of 0-5 per cent, of nitrate of silver (a few minutes after with a solution of 07 per cent, of common salt); another with a solution of 0-5 per cent, of hyper- osmic acid (and hardened after that in alcohol) ; and another portion was directly preserved in Mueller's fluid. Sections made in difi-erent dii^ections and stained with h^matophylm or lithion carmine, showed that the cyst luall consisted in the greater part of concentrically arranged co7in6ctive tissue, poor m blood-vessels and cells; only the innermost layers were richer m cells; the fihrous tissue loses, when approaching the surface, its regular concentrical arrangement, and at some places appears to radiate, but in a very irregular manner. Finally, the fibrillar structure disapiDears, so that in the innermost strata, around the cellular nuclei only an indistinct mass, no longer of a defined structure, can be perceived, an interstitial tissue between the irregular