146 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. apart from otlie.r possibilities, in most instances be explained on the supposition tliat s]jlinterecl, rough bullets, or pieces of metal, by energetic movements of tlie injured individual, subsequently cause hsemorrliage in the surrounding tissue, especially if they had reached the surface of the body, in consequence of frequent injuries. Again, suppuration may be induced in these haematomas by cocci temporarily circulating in the blood. It seems to me unquestionable that the physical condition of the enclosed foreign body is therefore of the greatest importance, though JDementieiv, in contradiction to Billroth, doubts it. A rounded piece of glass will, in the above sense, be less fraught with danger than a splintered leaden bullet. Moreover, by the excision after many months of the foreign body, introduced for the purpose of forming a cyst, we ought not to sacrifice the result aimed at, as French authors have pointed out, as regards large hematomas, that a pathological tissue-cavity may persist notwithstanding the disappearance of the efiPiised blood in the course of time. Albeit the expectations as to the suitableness of glass above described may not be realised in every respect, still the accurate description of the results arrived at by the healing-in of foreign bodies may encourage to successful experiments. The review of the anatomical observations on chemically indifferent, not readily soluble, heavy foreign bodies, shows that (1) if of hut slight iveight and circumference, and in ijerfect rest, they ivill readUy heal-in in cicatricial tissue, lyrovi^M they are 'porous, fibrous, or rough; they, therefore, may he suitable for the production of indurations. (2) ^Foreign hodies of moderate iveight and more compact con- sistence, if smooth-ivalled, heal-in into capsules of delicate connective tissue; if the surface be porous and rough, the capsule tvill he denser, the cicatrix fi.rmer; these Unds of foreign hodies may, therefore, serve as suitaUe supports in soft parts or in hone. (3) High specific iveight, pyresenting everywhere a smooth surface, sharp edges or points, are condUions of a foreign body icUch render prohahle its healinq-in in capsules of connective tissue contavning fluids; the more so, if the injured part be not at rest. Such foreign bodies may prove particularly suitable for the p'e- vmtion of adhesions in wounded parts, and lihein^e for the formation of pseudo-arihrosis. Vienna, December, 1889.