HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 198 massage is of special value, applied daily for twenty minutes. It is not necessary to strip the body, but all the muscles may be thoroughly, one by one, grasped, squeezed, and kneaded through a light garment. The discomfort after the first sitting dis- appears in the course of a few days. The effect of massage is strikingly beneficial and often has a very favourable influence on the excretion of sugar. It stands to reason that excesses of every description—pleasures of the table, sexual indulgence, smoking, gambling, as well as muscular and brain activity— must be most harmful, accompanied as they generally are by much excitement. C. MEDICINAL TREATMENT. Pharmacotherapy is far behind dietetic treatment in impor- tance. Since we are successful in the slighter forms of diabetes —and these are the great majority—by means of withdrawing more or less the carbo-hydrates from the regimen, in causing the disappearance of the sugar and relieving most of the other symptoms, we really do not require any medicines, for they could do no more. Still, the withdrawal of bread and other carbo-hydrates is not a matter of no consequence, or indeed easily accomplished. An inestimable boon would be conferred on patients, if this restrictive treatment could be replaced by a medicament. But so far, unfortunately, none has been dis- covered. It is true, we know, that certain drugs are able to diminish the sugar, even with ordinary diet, still, either their effect is transitory or they are successful only as long as they are used, and, if persisted in, may seriously injure the health in other ways. The drugs whose effects are temporary are simply endless. There is scarcely a remedy in the old as well as in the new Pharmacopoeias of every country which has not been tried by one or other physician, and pronounced efiicacious, at least for a time, but even here superficial observation often went hand in hand with mistaken conclusions. One remedy gave way to another, and none remained long in the field. I need not allude to the older physicians and their blind empiricism, but even disciples of the new scientific school, who have been guided in their choice of drugs by theoretical considerations, have not fared much better—for instance, Cantani and his much-lauded lactic acid. As the sugar in the body passes directly into lactic acid,