162 HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. then considerable strides will have been made towards the know- ledge of a disease still enshrouded in mystery. Here we should also mention a very recent experiment, where, after removal of the coiliac plexus, acetonuria is a constant result. PATHOLOGICAL ANATOMY AND ETIOLOGY. Pathological Anatomy, as a rule the safest guide in the search for the seat and origin of disease, leaves us completely in the lurch. Tissue changes are from time to time noted, amidst numerous negative results, in one or other organ, but constant changes in any particular organ have never been observed. Neither in the central nervous system (brain, spinal cord) to which the origin of diabetes has been ascribed, nor in the liver, which we suppose to be the seat of sugar formation, nor in the pancreas, where atrophy, fatty degeneration, or cancerous infiltration occur relatively frequently, nor in the kidneys, nor even in the organs of respiration or circulation—in short, nowhere are we in a position to show a constant abnormal condition. It would, therefore, be idle to enumerate all the anatomical changes which occur now and again in diabetes, as it is not known with certainty whether these in isolated cases bear a causal relation to the disease or are simply coincidences. The glycogenic degeneration of Henle's loops in the kidney discovered by Ehrlich, which had previously been described by Ebstein as necrosis of the epithelium, is most worthy of note. At any rate, this change is one of the most frequent. The only method of determining post mortem the diagnosis of diabetes would be by examination of the blood, which, if it contained twice the normal amount of sugar, would prove the case to be one of diabetes. Unfortunately, up to the present comparative analyses of the blood before and after death, in diabetics, as also in healthy individuals, have been made too seldom to render conclusions trustworthy. Where the patho- logical anatomy of a disease is not yet known, its etiology as a rule is not in a much better plight. It has not yet been settled definitely, whether diabetes can arise suddenly from any given cause. In the majority of cases, it develops very gradually, and as the beginning is not accompanied by any pani or striking malaise, the exact starting point of the affection is rarely ascertainable. Where the patient is inclined to date the