116 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. having penetrated into the latissimus dorsi muscle, where it had caused the development of a fibroma-like tumour. Klehs found cotton-thread of 2*3 mm..in diameter healed-in in the soft parts of the fore-arm. If, according to Barclelehen's statement, foreign bodies which had entered from the outside into the skin, connective tissue, muscle, bone, nerve, and even brain-tissue, the intestines or also the serous cavities, provided they are of insignificant size, smooth surface, and but slightly irritating quality, cause only an inflammation in their environs of so moderate a degree that they become encapsuled, and if, as he says, small shot particularly lends itself to this, other kind of smooth foreign bodies, such as needles and ligature-thread, most of all glass-splinters, had most frequently been found in such lihe cystic caijsules, in cysts, in reference to the formation of which Gussenbauer asserts that the question here is not of the formation of fibrous membrane invested with endothelium at the surface directed towards the foreign body. Von Dumreicher found a piece of glass, 2-5 cm. in length and 2 cm. in width, in the region of the spine of the left scapula encapsuled in a cavity by a delicate membrane. Weiss likewise found a glass-splinter 8 cm. in length in the humeral region, which had not given rise to inflammatory symptoms. Eager and many others discovered in the foot and in the hand healed-in glass-splinters which had lodged there many years. We find in the more recent surgical literature a large series of healing-in of foreign bodies, withdetailed microscopic examinations in reference to the behaviour of silk, catgut, wire, ivory-pegs, and nails, &c., since the introduction of the antiseptic treatment. The respective alterations had been studied most accurately in experiments on animals, with the view of settling important questions of general surgical pathology. In reviewing the surgical literature of the last decade on this subject, we find descriptions of the minute alterations of tissue in the healing-in of foreign bodies, especially in the abdominal cavity, in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, and in the bone. As regards the healing in the peritoneal cavity, it has been proved by Sjpiegelberg and Waldeyer, who made experiments analogous to those of Bud. Wagner, Burdach, and Mitteldorpf, that ligatures are encapsuled in the abdominal cavity. Silk and linen fibres showed during the first twenty-one days only a slight swelling, and afterwards a number of cells immigrating from the neighbourhood