183 HOl-'MEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. carbo-hydrates and feels well enough to resume his occupation, the disease is only at a standstill or latent, and certainly cannot be said to have ceased. For the moment he exceeds, by ever so little, the small amount of carbo-hydrates he can. safely digest, or is attacked by any fresh predisposing cause, diabetes ever and anon occurs in spite of quiescence of many months' or even years' duration. Senator compares diabetics to bleeders, who remain free from danger as long as they avoid injury—apparently healthy, they still suffer from htemophilia. As little as the latter are able to protect them- selves for their whole life against accidental injury, just as little, or even less so, are diabetics from dangers which constantly lurk under the ordinary conditions of life. In this sense, therefore, diabetes must be regarded as incurable; all diabetics, if not carried off by some intercurrent affection or by a violent death, succumb sooner or later to the usual termination of the disease. Those occasional cases of complete cure reported of late must be consequently regarded with a certain amount of suspicion. Every experienced physician in Carlsbad must know how many of the so-called cured patients return thither after a few years as genuine diabetics. And Seegen, among 800 carefully observed cases, has not seen a single one cured. This may be taken as deciding the question. Hence the prognosis in Diabetes mellitus must be considered throughout as unfavourable. The mean duration of the disease could only approximately be determined, were it possible to place all the observed cases under similar conditions of life. The poorer classes, who are not in a position to avoid danger by adhering to a preponderating meat diet, succumb sooner to the disease than the well-to-do, who are able to regulate their lives accordingly and thus take care of themselves. While for the former, life may average a duration of three years, for the latter, it may last twice as long. Cases are exceedingly rare where death takes place within a few months or even weeks. Age has a great influence over the duration of diabetes. In young persons (from 20 to 35 years) the prognosis is decidedly more unfavourable than in older. Symptoms are not only severer and more numerous, but the danger of early and speedy death is greater. In children (under 12) it is still a somewhat rare disease; out of 117 cases collected by C. Stern from the