AND ITS T^tEATMENT. 61 We must therefore, as I have just said, be satisfied with defining the nature of the disease from the purely clinical standpoint. I therefore characterise neurasthenia as a state of fimdional debiMy of the nervous system, varying from the slightest degrees of weakness in a single department, to a con- dition of complete exliaustion of the entire nervous apparatus. This lack of efficiency is sometimes manifested m_ the functions of the intellednal and psychical centres, sometimes m those of the reflex and inhibitory centres, sometimes, finally, m the paths of nervous conductivity. Disturbances can, therefore, occur m every department of ner;ous existence, and it is easily understood how extraordinarily multifarious and protean must be the forms assumed by the disease, not merely in the degree to which the individual foiTQS of disturbance become developed, but also m the combination of various lesions and the kaleidoscopic varia- tions of the phenomena. . ^ ^ ^ i It is nevertheless possible to. distinguish certam fundamental forms of neurasthenia, as has already been done by Bea;rd m his important works, namely, a cerebral form or cerehrastheraa,^ spinal form or myelasthenia, and a uniA,&>'sal form m which the entire nervous system participates in the disturbances. To trace an accurate boundary-line between neurasthenic disturbances on the one hand, and the other universal neuroses, especially hysteria and hyiDOchondriasis, and various forms of psychoses, especially melancholia and mania, on the other, is not at present possible We must content ourselves with admitting that neur- asthenia and hysteria often converge, as do likewise neurasthenia and hypochondriasis, so that numerous authors simply join them together. And as regards its relations with melancholy, mama, and hallucinatory insanity, experience teaches that they may de- velop themselves directly and imperceptibly out of neurasthenia. Less difficult is it to draw the line between spinal neurasthenia and the other diseases of the medulla spinalis, especially tabes, myelitis, and meningo-myelitis. These and other organic derangements of the cord are seldom liable to be confounded with neurasthenia. The symptoms of this latter are, as I already mentioned, ex- tremely variable according to the position and character of the most important disturbances. We shall be obliged, if perfect accuracy be desired, to dis-