HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 157 in the hepatic veins contains more sugar than that in the portal system, which scarcely shows a trace. Bernard, therefore, inferred that sugar formed in the hepatic cells, passed along the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava to the right side of the heart, and reached the pulmonary circulation, where the greater portion underwent oxidation, and the rest was distributed through the arterial system. The second question, What is the source of the sugar ? Claude Bernard believed he had solved completely, when he and Hensen succeeded in discovering a substance in the liver which bore a strong relationship to sugar. He regarded this substance, which he found only in the liver and nowhere else, as the material from which the liver prepares the sugar by means of an (animal) ferment, likewise present, and he consequently termed it glycogen (sugar-generating). Finally, he believed he had demonstrated by "the diabetic puncture " that the nerve centre regulating the formation of sugar has its site in the floor of the fourth ventricle. These statements of Bernard, which prevailed for several years, were much shaken by control experiments, and by the more extensive researches of succeeding physiologists. In the first place the English physician Pavy, in 1860, confirmed the state- ment of Bernard, that sugar could be obtained from the liver of an animal recently killed, which increased in quantity the later the examination was deferred after the death of the animal. On the other hand he soon arrived at the conviction that the blood of the hepatic veins did not differ as regards the amount of su.gar from that of other blood-vessels. Further, that the slight increase of sugar in the liver was due to the struggles of the animal during the removal of the organ, which was forthwith placed in boiling water so as to destroy any ferment or post-mortem influence. Still Pavy believed that, although under physiological conditions exceedingly slight traces of sugar circulate in the blood, the excess in the blood of diabetics originates in the liver. In fact, by stating that the circulating blood contains a ferment capable of converting hepatic glycogen into sugar, he thus placed his views in accordance with the correct theory of diabetes. Through nerve-influence the efficacy of the ferment is inhibited; should this influence fail, as after death, or become