378 LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE narcotics. Their usefulness in eccentric pains is particularly- evident when these occur in regular attacks. From my own observations I should say that, practically, both drugs are the same in their effects, though in some cases antipyrin may do better, in others antifebrin. I generally order the two together, giving a powder containing twelve grains of antipyrin and four of antifebrin three or four times a day. By the introduction of these two remedies salicylate of soda has been superseded, and the ether spray, which has been employed in France for the relief of lightning pains, might now also be considered super- fluous. The external application of liniments is a mode of treatment in which at present there is very little faith in many quarters. But the scepticism has been carried rather far. I believe from the results of my own experience, both clinical and experimental, that we may beneficially employ friction with spirituous and aromatic suktances in spinal disease. Through the gentle stimulating effect on the cutaneous nerves we can influence the nutrition and irritability of the cord, and in certain circum- stances favourably modify its morbid conditions. Of course we are not to hope for any speedy or brilliant results from this procedure. On the other hand, I am very much more distrustful of the value of sedative and narcotic liniments. We are con- stantly inclined to take refuge in them when dealing with spinal pains ; but these pains recur again and again, and usually—not •to say regularly—the narcotics leave us in the lurch at the time when they are most m-gently needed. Y.—Ortho2Jcedics, Gymnastics, Massage, aiid the application of Rarefied Air. The art of orthopaedics has not been turned to accoinit in the treatment of spinal disease as far as it might be. Most use has been made of it in the paralytic conditions of the lower extremities in children from anterior poliomyelitis; apparatus have also been successfully applied for the vertebral and jomt lesions in locomotor ataxia. And recently the endeavour has been made in the latter disease by means of suitable supports to improve, or, it may be, to restore the power of walking when the ataxia has become very bad. These attempts are worthy of note, and no doubt in many cases of old-standing spinal