IIOFMEISTEK ON DIABETES iMELLITUS. 195 drinks af the various meals, down'to the minutest detail: Many a surprise and explanation will' be in store for him! Next to meat; eggs, uncooked, soft or hard hoiled, or prepared with butter, are most nutritious. As regards fat, in theearlier writings most divergent views are met with, some doeliiing it useful, others harmful. More abundant experience of later years has clearly proved that fat is exceedingly useful in diabetes, and in very many cases absolutely indispensable. Carlsbad physicians in particular, who prohibit the use of fat of every description to all other patients, as it disagrees with them while taking the waters, find to their surprise that diabetics can consume an extraordinary amount without interfering in the least either with digestion or with the treatment they are undergoing. I know some patients who actually had a great distaste for fat and ricli dishes before they became diabetic, but now evince quite a strong desire for them. Some exceptions there may be, but these only prove the rule. In this question clinical experience has more claim to speak decisively than any theory, no matter how well based, that tries to prove actually in the digestion of fats glycerine is formed in large quantities, and consequently the excretion of sugar must increase. Moreover, fat possesses a valuable property, and one which cannot be too highly prized, of inducing satiety much more quickly than meat. The patient thus escapes the danger arising from eating too much meat and of overtaxing the digestive powers, producing loss of appetite. This latter may be frau.ght with peril to him; to preserve the appetite and digestion intact should ever be his main object. According to Seegen, sugar is formed in the liver from peptones and fat; if the body be deprived of fat, more meat will be required to form sugar, and, owing to proteid disintegration, emaciation would rapidly proceed, as is seen in the Banting system, where the diet is exclusively meat. Even obese patients benefit from the preserving property of fatty food, for they retain their emhonpomt for a long time, which contributes to their peace of mind in no small degree. As a rule from 150 to 200 grms. of fat (from ^ lb. to \ lb.) may be taken with the food in 24 hours. In the majority of cases I do not consider it necessary at all to regulate the amount, but leave it simply to the judgment and taste of the patient. It should be seen that it is always fresh and sweet, and due regard