SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 119 (The implanted fresh tissue continues to live in the abdominal cavity after having undergone a loose connection with the abdominal organs. Sometimes a purulent dissolving process takes place in the centre.) Von Demboivsici foxmd that foreign bodies, as ligatures, dead tissue, eschars, certainly produce adhesions, whilst jodoform, blood-coagula, and irritating antiseptic fluids do not. Foreign bodies simply placed into the abdominal cavity always become encapsuled in the mesenteric folds or in the omentum. Jodoform- gauze stitched to the abdominal serous membrane of the right hypogastric region, was after eight days glued to, encapsuled, and adherent to the thickened border of the liver. Jodoform-gauze, sewn from the inside of the internal orifice of the inguinal canal, was healed-in after two weeks between the parietal peritoneum and the omentum, which had assumed the thickness of 3 mm.; the abdominal wall at the site of the gauze had thickened to 5 mm. Catgut ligatures and portions of ligatured tissue are as a rule encapsuled after ten days. Eschars give rise to adhesions with the omentum and the intestines, but not with the liver ; they seem, according to von Demhowslas view, to be less irritating than the afore-mentioned jodoform-gauze, as has been ascertained after eight days, and also after two months. Solutions of sub- limate or carbolic acid, turpentine, and oil of marjoram (Oleum Origani cretici, German pharmacopoBia) caused no adhesions. Celloidin favours this, but these adhesions seem to break up again after some time. Whilst in dogs the soldering of eschars to the abdominal wall persisted after several months after the carbonised portion of these had long been absorbed, the celloidin had completely loosened and only the serous membrane still remained much thickened and covered with connective tissue- like layers. Stern demonstrated that vaseline, mutton-fat, paraffin, olive- oil, and collodium prevent the formation of adhesions of the peritoneum, and are in no manner encapsuled. Councilman, Scheuerlen, and others, introduced under the skin or under the superficial fasciae glass phials, glass tubes, and similar foreign bodies containing chemically irritating sub- stances. They state that these foreign bodies lay in a cystic space, but that at the same time bands of connective tissue passed through their lumina.