PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 330 most careful inquiry, to explain tlie causation of nocturnal incon- tinence. On the contrary, it is my purpose rather to indicate the direction in which steps should be taken to arrive at the nature of this burdensome affection which embitters the youth of so many. Treatment would be more satisfactory in its results, whereas at present Sir H. Thompson (" Diseases of the Urinary Passages," 19th edition, translated by Dr. L. Casper) states all kinds of remedies and methods of treatment have been tried with these unfortunate patients, including even the periodical use of the rod, , a species of plant which is not to be recommended as a therapeutic agent. We can be convinced that punishing this form of youthful failing is of no use, for whatever moral effect may be attributed to the popular saying, "Do not spare the rod," this is quite inapposite for medical men. Frequently the relations of the child lose all patience because of the constant recurrence of this unpleasant weakness, and fancy that obstinacy or inattention on his part is the cause of it. I have seen unfor- tunate children cruelly treated by their nearest relations—we at any rate should never countenance such treatment. In infancy the emunctories act without any subjective sensa- tion, the slightest contraction of the bladder and the rectum is sufficient to void the contents, as the resistance of the sphincters is wanting. It is not until after teething that the power of retaining the urine is established. Consequently children who after this period pass water involuntarily with the urinary channel intact, suffer from enuresis, which represents a persisting infantile condition. As the child grows np, as a rule about the time of puberty, the affection disappears spontaneously, and therefore at a period when the genital system reaches its complete development. Trousseau and Bretonneau, with whom Ultzmaun agrees, sup- pose some nervous derangement, a want of proportion between the innervation of the detrusor and that of the, sphincter, Avhich is lacking in power. During the hours of waking the compressor urethrte (sphincter vesicse) is sufficiently stimulated to con- traction by the exercise of the will, but at night during sleep a certain amount of insensibility overcomes the patient and reflex contraction fails. In a large number of cases this view is undoubtedly correct, ■ for a considerable percentage get well spontaneously with the