246 EK13 ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, the bicepe on cither side somewhat thin, and, on the otlier hand, the serratns magnus on cither side very strongly developed. The face was quite intact, and there was no pseudo-hypertrophy anywhere. To-day you can see that the disease in this jDOor child has made a distinct advance. . The lower portions of the pectorals are markedly atrophied, also the supinators and flexors of the fore- arms. The angle of the scapula stands out somewhat (weakness of the latissimus and trapezius); the child's shoulders are loose; if the arm held horizontally is brought down strongly against an endeavour to keep it up, the angle of the scapula moves outwards. Triceps and infraspinatus on each side distinctly hypertrophied. Weakness of the extensors in the loins, and slight lordosis of the lumbar vertebrae. Quadriceps weak and nodular on contraction. Rising from the squatting position impossible without assistance. Calves greatly enlarged. Face absolutely intact, no fibrillar twitchings, tendon reflexes active. What are we to call these two cases ? Assuredly not pseudo- hypertrophic paralysis, or disputes would arise. Perhaps we might reckon them cases of hereditary muscular atrophy, for we have the heredity and the commencement in the legs and sacral region. And yet the early affection of the shoulder girdle and lipper arm brings them nearer to my juvenile form. Here, also, this question may remain undecided at present. Unfortunately I cannot show you a case in which the disease has begun, and is specially marked in the face. I have not, up to the present, met with such. They appear, in Germany at any rate, to be very rare. Striimpell has lately described and given illustrations of a case in his " Spec. Pathologic " (vol. 2, 1, 5th edit.) In France Duchenne^, and of late years Landouzy and Dejerine^^ and Marie and Guinoni^ have recorded a number of such cases, calling the form " infantile " muscular atrophy. You have now, gentlemen, a fairly complete idea of the variety of forms which this disease assumes. It will not have escaped your notice in what respects these various forms agree (and in some ways the agreement goes very far), and in what respects they, to a certain extent, differ. They all agree in the slow and insidious development of the disease, with very frequently hereditary or family influences at