158 nOFiMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. weakened, as in diabetes, a continuous formation of sugar takes place in the liver, the blood becomes surcharged with sugar, and the urine carries off the excess. Shortly after this, glycogen was found to exist in other organs of the body besides the liver, in the lungs, spleen, kidneys, cartilage, leucocytes, and particu- larly in all striated muscular tissue. In consequence Pavy's theory was modified to include all the above-mentioned organs as sources of origin for the formation of sugar. This modified theory held sway for nearly twenty years: under physiological conditions, no formation of sugar in the liver and only slight traces in the blood, in diabetes all glycogen- bearing organs become sources of sugar. In 1875 Seegen, who up till then accepted the above theory, discovered that sugar formed from glycogen with the help of animal ferments (saliva, pancreatic juice) is not grape sugar, but one of less reducing power (Maltose, Ptyalose, Pancreatose, &c.), whereas hepatic sugar undoubtedly is grape sugar. Thence he concluded that hepatic sugar could not be formed through a ferment; he denied, moreover, the existence of - the latter, as he had not succeeded in isolating it. Furthermore, he found by his experiments, without exception, '4 to'5 per cent, of sugar in the liver. This amount increases considerably after death, owing to the continued activity of the hepatic tissue, but the amount of glycogen actually remains the same. Seegen consequently deduces that hepatic sugar is not formed from glycogen but from some other material. As a result Seegen restored to a great extent the doctrine of Bernard as regards the seat of sugar formation in the liver, and confirmed it through the repetition of the fundamental experiment of Bernard, i.e., comparing the blood from the distal with that from the proximal hepatic venous system, by means of a very perfect technical method. He was able to withdraw blood direct from the hepatic veins (not from the vena cava, where the blood is already mixed), and prove that without exception the quantity of sugar contained was nearly double that in the portal blood—on the average -230 per cent, in hepatic blood, as against -119 per cent, in portal blood. Having at the same time determined how much blood flows during a given time through the portal system into the liver, he calculated the quantity of sugar formed during 24 hours in the liver, and