STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 305 advisable to distinguisL. two chief groups of the traumatic neuroses, and to describe these separately. In one set of cases, occurring generally after some local injury, there are merely local nervous disturbances, e.g., in one leg, in one arm, or such like. We may name these cases " local" traumatic neuroses. In other patients we have, mostly as a result of some severe shake to the whole body, a much more complicated set of symptoms, and among them, in particular, certain general nervous phenomena appear in the foreground. This group we call " o-eneral " traumatic neuroses. Let us first examine more closely the latter. I shall suppose a particular case, in order to bring the features of the affection as clearly as possible before your eyes. A work- man—let us say a carpenter—previously in perfectly good health and strength, falls from a scaffolding a distance of twelve or fifteen feet. In consequence of the shock he is rendered unconscious, or at least very much stunned, and his fellow- workmen have to carry him home. After some hours he comes to himself, but feels so languid that he "can't move a muscle." The medical man who is called finds no evidence of severe injury —perhaps only a fractured rib or even only some skin-wounds with ecchymoses. The patient recovers but very slowly, and can only leave his bed after the lapse of some weeks. The relatively trifling bodily injuries which he received at first have long ago healed. Nevertheless he feels very weak, complains of various pains, and says that he is as yet quite unfit for work. His medical attendant thinks there may be some internal injury or its effects, and repeatedly and carefully examines the limbs, spine, lungs, &c., but can "find absolutely nothing abnormal'in any of the organs." The authorities wish a medical report in regard to his condition. A second doctor is called in, and he also can " find nothing," so the suspicion readily gets up that the patient is shamming, and intentionally exaggerating his com- plaints, in order to avoid working for some time longer. And yet, gentlemen, in cases of this kind there is generally a very great deal to be observed. We have only to know what the proper symptoms are, and to seek after them in particular. I do not mean by the proper symptoms dislocations or fractures, displacements of the vertebrte or pleural exudations, but rather certain peculiar nervous disturbances which meet us in all these