2IEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 217 success of specific treatment, the difficulties ai'e very mucli increased when we have only general symptoms to go upon. The occurrence of headache, giddiness, neurasthenic conditions, intellectual and mental weakness, but too often leave us in doubt, and usually it is only in the sequel, when localising symptoms occur, or a tentative course of iodide of potash succeeds, that the diasrnosis is made certain. The difficulties are increased if the patient is up in years, if there is extensive atheroma, if there is present at the same time any cardiac or renal disease, if there has been previous neurasthenia, &c. A question of gi'eat importance which forces itself on our notice here is that of the causal connection between syphilis and general paralysis of the insane. It has already produced a copioas literature, but nevertheless is still very far from a settle- ment. I may take it as acknowledged that the view of the disease as the product of a diSuse chronic meningitis and cortical mostly interstitial encephalitis, resulting in atrophy of the cortex, has been pretty unanimously accepted through the work of Mendel and others. I shall leave it undecided how far this view of its pathogenesis is generally justified, and restrict myself to the consideration of its connection with syphilis. It was natural enough that the initial irritant for the inter- stitial degenerative inflammation of the pia and cortex should be sought in the infection of syphilis; and isolated statements were made a long time ago which as a matter of fact seemed to speak for the existence of such a causal relation. Of modern writers Mendel especially has supported this view. His statistics, which, embrace 146 cases of general paralysis, are really very convincing, as they show that in 75 per cent, of all paralytics secondary syphilis has preceded, and this does not take into account 8 cases of chancre which were not followed by secondary symptoms, and 9 cases with merely cicatrix on the penis. Alongside these figures referring to general paralysis Mendel places a set dealing %vith 101 cases of other forms of insanity. In only 18 per cent, of these could secondary syphilis be proved to have been an antecedent. The calculations of Eohmell, Snell, Eeinhard, and others lead to similar conclusions. The opponents ot this view, like Westphal, Flirstner, Obersteiner, Goldstein, and others, give a smaller percentage, but even with them syphilis has preceded