134 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. capsule of connective tissue, wliicli is movable in the cellular tissue. Needles lodge, according to mobility of the soft parts, in thin or thick capsules of connective tissue, which mostly contain distinct serum. Porous fibrous substances are permeated by large-celled connective tissue. The investigations on the histogenesis of the investments of foreign bodies have already been partially mentioned. Tillmanns in his treatises on the investments of serous cavities, and again in those on the healing-in of foreign substances, especially of dead tissue in the peritoneal cavity, has in the most exact manner elucidated the more minute histo-pathological alterations. As to the encapsulation of dead bodies in the abdo- minal cavity, he explained the formation of capsules of connective tissue in the following manner : The formative cells of these are emigrated colourless blood-corpuscles, which in the begm- ning are round, then so much pressed together that they assume an epithelial appearance, much granulated, possess one large or several smaller nuclei, and sometimes melt together in larger numbers into a homogeneously granular formative material. The formation of the fibrillary substance (respectmg which Tillmanns coincides with the views of Ziegler, ScJiwan, and Schulze) is always brought about by difi'erentiation of their protoplasm, whilst in the intercellular substance, so far as it is not understood as a metamorphosed cell-protoplasm, according to Tillmanns and Ziegler, no formation of fibrillae is produced. Without exception, the surface of the implanted tissue will be covered in a certain time with cells placed together, in the manner of endothelium. Quite contrary to this explanation of the mode of origin of the fibrillary substance in the case of foreign bodies, is the view of Weiss (Padua), who introduced hair or cotton-threads under the skin of dogs or pigeons, in order to examine the tissue alterations after fifteen, thirty, to forty-five days. (He produced, liowever, with the exception of one single case, always suppuration.) TT eiss states that in immediate connection with the foreign body giant- cells form, the origin of which he explains by the confluence of several smaller cells; the latter because the foreign body fre- quently lies in giant-cells. Further, the cells which serve as formative material are granulation-cells. These m time are converted into epithelioid cells, round or polygonous, with finely