ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA 70 a beautiful wintry landscape, and remained for years free from his trouble. The stomach disturbances with which bowel troubles are more or less associated are also highly protean. Amongst prevailing forms are, deficient or capricious appetite, digestive troubles in the shape of abnormal sensations of an unpleasant kind ranging to utter depression and misery, restless wandering about, nausea, large development of gas in stomach and intestine, gaping, &c. Such patients think the period of digestion the most uncomfort- able of their existence, while others are attacked on an empty, stomach with discomfort or pain in stomach and intestine, or in the head. Many are incapable of any exertion, mental or IDhysical, while fasting, and only come into possession of their strength when they have breakfasted. Others, again, are occa- sionally seized by ravenous hunger (Bulimia) (" Heisshunger"), which compels them to take food at once and in large quantities. A young man, whom I had occasion to observe with Dr. Von Hosslin in his institution, used to have an entire meal brought up and placed on his night table, and devoured it during the night when awakened by the " Heisshunger." An extremely neurasthenic old gentleman of eighty, who had not left his bed for years, would bolt a dozen of eggs at night, when awakened by the "Heisshunger," and would then follow on with soup and other things. The appetite is extremely capricious; according to the subjective impressions of the patients, it is altogether absent, and yet they often consume and assimilate excessive quantities of food without any particular digestive trouble. The culinary satisfaction of their changeable appetites is a trying task for the housekeeper or cook, especially as there exist often idiosyncrasies with regard to individual foods, particular condiments, spices, Sec, which are subject to the same capricious variation as the appetite itself. Many patients struggle successfully against the digestive troubles by means of bodily exertion, especially by long walks after meals. The comfortable repose beneficial to the healthy after meals does not exist for the nervous dyspeptic ; he is driven out by subjective troubles and uncomfortable sensations. In this form of neurasthenia also psychical influences are of great importance. Pleasant company at table and diversion