SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES, 112 glued to each other. Gera/rd, six years after the injury, found the handle of a knitting-needle in the wall of the left ventricle covered by fibrinous organised growths; and Neill a much oxydised needle in a cyst of the wall of the left ventricle. In ruminants needles have frequently been discovered in the heart healed in. The healing-in of balls has for a long time been a well-known fact. There are reports of the encapsulation of balls in wheals and sclerotic osseous tissue, or in cystic cavities. Fahricnis Hildanus long ago stated that a leaden ball might remain for many years in the cavities of the body, or under the fleshy part of the muscles. He once found a ball, half a year after the injury, healed-in between the roof of the skull and the dura mater, " nature having in this place provided a ha/rd substance which lay under the dura mater like a pad or a cushion in order to protect it against harm." Von Bergmann discovered a revolver- bullet perfectly encapsuled in connective tissue in the brain, 0*5 cm. distant from a cerebral abscess. Koch likewise found a perfectly encapsuled revolver-bullet in the brain. Malle relates that an officer with a gunshot-wound had attained a very old age. The bullet lay in the left hemisphere of the cerebellum. Cortese found, nineteen years and a half after the injury, under a defect of the squamous portion of the temporal bone, a protu- berance 3 cm. in length, protruding into the substance of the brain, which enclosed fragments of bone, and the ball from which the track of the bullet through the right hemisphere measured 10 cm. to the falx magna cerebri, to which again a pointed, irregularly shaped piece of bone was adherent. The walls of the track, into which the finger could be introduced, showed under the microscope an unaltered condition of the cerebralparemchyma. Rutin mentions that a ball had remained fourteen years in the vertebral canal healed-in, where it was very firmly impacted; and Breschet reports a similar case. Also von Bruns speaks of the healing-in of balls in the brain. Bland, Bavaton, Baudens, and Larrey report numerous cases of healing-in, in closely adherent cicatricial capsules, of bidlets in the lungs, supporting the assertion of Koenig that clean foreign bodies readily become encapsuled in the lungs, by pouches con- sisting of connective tissue. Nissel found a bullet in a cavity of the size of a hen's egg, sixteen years after the injury; and Guyon likewise found one in a cyst of the lung. Suchong discovered a