ERU ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 250 presence of fibrillar twitching and of the reaction of degeneration, and the association with bulbar paralysis. As a rule the distinction is easy. In diflacult or doubtful cases when, for example, the spinal form begins in the trunk or shoulders, or the dystrophic form attacks the small muscles of the hand at an early stage, careful examination of the other symptoms and the further progress of the disease will generally guide to a right conclusion. The distinction from syringomyelia, a disease of which many cases were formerly put dow^n to progressive atrophy, is very simple. The localisation of the affection is of the spinal type, there is atrophic paralysis with the reaction of degeneration, hypertrophy is absent, and, above all, there are sensory dis- turbances—pain, paraesthesias, auEosthesiee, in particular partial sensory paralysis for pain and temperature. So, also, is the distinction from chronic multiple neuritis, which frequently presents a certain similarity to progressive muscular atrophy. But the pain and sensory disturbances, paralysis and atrophy, with the reaction of degeneration, the absence of hypertrophy, and the localisation, all these are suffi- ciently characteristic to guard against any confusion. The same holds good for another form of progressive muscular atrophy which has lately received close attention. Eichhorst F. Schultze Charcot and Marie Herringham aiid others have described cases, and J. Hoffman has recently given a careful study of them under the name " progressive neurotic atrophy " (type Charcot-Marie or " peroneal" type of the English). The place of this affection in a systemic arrangement is not yet quite clear. Its features, however, are atrophic paralysis, especially in the feet and legs, later on in the hands and forearms, with deformities, reaction of degeneration, fibrillar and fascicular twitching, frequently, also, with sensory disturbances, &c. Thus, although the disease has a distinctly hereditarjr character, and begins for the most part in early childhood, it is very easily distinguished from our dystrophy. Diagnostic difficulties may, perhaps, arise in rare cases, such as out of the way localisations of focal disease in the cervical or lumbar cord, or peculiar combined peripheral paralyses (plexus- paralyses). For example, I have seen a bilateral birth paralysis affecting the shoulder and arm which at first closely imitated