370 LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE There are, I think, two kinds of elfects produced by the application of derivatives to the back, 1. A direct effect on the nervous elements in the cord from the stimulation of the nerves of the skin or subcutaneous cellular tissue at the spot at which the counter-irritant is applied. According to the locality and the particular condition of the spinal elements affected this stimulation of the cells and fibres of the cord may either produce or may inhibit reflexes, or may modify to a certain extent the irritability of the cord without this being indicated in any particular way.* Accordingly we have diminution or disappearance of any symptoms of motor or sensory irritation, such as spasm, contracture, pain, paraes- thesiae, or increased reflexes. On the other hand, however, the irritability of some of the nerve elements which have been suffering from damage to their nutrition may be increased and inhibitions removed. 2. An effect on the circulation and nutrition in the spinal canal. This may happen in two ways : (a) Through a reflex influence on the vascular nerves of the cord, transmitted from the cutaneous nerves or nerves of the subcutaneous cellular tissue, affected by the counter-irritants. The possibility of this has been proved by Brown-Sequard's^" and my own*'" experimental observations, (b) Through changes produced in the nutrition of the soft parts over the spine. The nutrition of those parts has intimate mutual relations with that of the spinal cord, as the blood vessels and lymphatics supplying both the soft parts covering the vertebrae, and the vertebree themselves, have numerous communications with the vessels and lymphatics of the cord and membranes. Any morbid processes, therefore, which produce a considerable change in the nutrition and blood- supply of the surrounding parts must exercise a certain influence on the nutrition of the spinal membrane and the cord itself. The ordinary derivatives may be divided into weaker kinds, such as dry-cups, sinapisms, painting with iodine, and blisters; *The possibility of "latent" effects of this kind has been proved by the observations of S. Mayer^* (Prague). He noticed in the rabbit that, after division of the sciatic nerve, indications of motor irritation in the spinal cord presented themselves under certain conditions (exclusive of central influence) which were not observed in animals under these conditions in whom the sciatic had not been divided. The section of the sciatic must therefore have produced some permanent change in the irritability of the cord, though this only came to light in those certain circumstances.