79 AND ITS TREATMENT. as easily as the monotony of the daily life and the surroundings. It is, however, not generally advisable to recommend sea-bathing for sensitive, sleepless, psychically excited or depressed neuras- thenics, since it only increases their excitement and sleeplessness. The majestic calm of high mountainous situations acts quite differently. I must however confess, gentlemen, that even with very great experience it is often hard indeed to come to a conclusion on the question, " Sea-bathing or the Mountains ?" and that the answer must often depend on the result of a trial of sea-bathing. For such experiments I would recommend the Baltic bathing resorts as being in all respects the quieter—especially the Islands of Eiigen, Usedom, and Wollin, with their magnificent forests stretching almost to the very shore. If the trial turns out favourably, the more strongly stimulating and strengthening North Sea baths may take their turn. I come now to the discussion of the loJmjsical and pharmacologi- cal curative agents which we have, as auxiliaries, at our disposal, in addition to the therapeutic resources already described. The plnjsical agents are of great value in the treatment of neurasthenia; they are applicable everywhere, whether in an institution or in the patient's private dwelling, but are un- doubtedly more efficacious in an institution because they are carried out regularly and methodically, and the best apparatus and arrangements, as well as a skilled staff of assistants, are there available. It is nevertheless quite possible to apply some of these therapeutic agents in the private dwelling to patients who are not in a position to give up their avocations, or they may be sent for a few hours to the institution in order to undergo the treatment quietly and methodically. That is, however, an ex- pedient which should only be resorted to in mild cases ; in those of medium, or of great severity, it does not suffice. Hydrotliera'peutics find their application along with procedures which exercise a refreshing and stimulating action on the peripheral nerves, and, centripetally also on the nerve-centres. All shocks and all too strong depressions of temperature must be carefully avoided; both are badly borne by a sensitive and enfeebled nervous system. The procedure which is at once the gentlest and the most efficacious is the simple tepid sheet-bath with shampooing. As it