ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROI'IIY. 286 Schultze,Marie-Guinon,Edgren, Frohmaier,Penzoldt,HopmaTni, Singer, Ladame, Hitzig, Sachs, Westplial, F. Raymond, and many others). Through all these more recent works, with few exceptions, there runs as a fundamental supposition the view that the way in which I hava put this matter is completely justified, and, although many of the details are still subjects of dispute, and many important questions still av.'^ait solution, we are now standing on clearer and firmer ground than we did fifteen years ago. Allow me now, gentlemen, to bring before you to-day some cases by means of which you can form a judgment of your own: 1. You have here a young man, twenty years of age, Tbeodor Brandt. He works in a brewery, and has sought our help on account of increasing weakness and emaciation in his arms and legs. He is the youngest of twelve children, and an elder brother suffers, it seems, from the same trouble. The aftection com- menced gradually, in his seventeenth year, with weakness in the arms and legs, falling in over the region of the pectoral miiscles, and wasting of the upper arms. He has never had either pains or parsesthesiaa, and is otherwise perfectly well. You see before you a strongly-built man, in whom at first the only thing that strikes you is the great slenderness of the upper arms as compared with the forearms and shoulders, and the abnormal position of the shoulder blades. If you examine more carefully, you will find very extensive, and in part extreme, atro^yhy and weakness of a large number of the muscles in the trunk and upper extremities. These are as follows: the pectorals (especially in the middle, and lower bundles, the clavicular portions being in parts un- touched); the trapezii (almost completely disappeared); the latissimi dorsi (on the right side almost completely gone, on the left all but a slender bundle of fibres .on the anterior edge); the serrati magni (especially on the right side); rhomboids (only partly, and in moderate degree); sacrolumbales and longissimi dorsi with their continuation in the neck (largely disappeared); bicipites and brachiales antici (on the right side extensive atrophy, moderate on the left); supinatores longi (on both sides wholly gone); and tricipites (on right side extreme atrophy, moderate on left). These atrophied muscles contrast strongly with the following, which are tcell preserved, or even distinctly hypertrojjhied: sterno- mastoids and splenii (normal and well developed); levatores anguli scapulae (slightly hypertrophied); deltoids (in the lower