376 LciWENFELD ON EECENT ADVANCES IN THE at the same time the other remedies which lie to our hand. Baths and electrical treatment not only form most valuable adjuncts to an antisyphilitic course, but often give very good results where the latter used alone has failed or proved harmful.* Among the other drugs that are employed, strychnine mav first be alhided to. In consideration of its distinctive effect on the cord it was formerly very much used for spinal paralysis, though generally without success. It is not difficiilt to explain this. It has no resolvent effect on the inflammatory and de- generative changes in the cord, and its physiological property of increasing the reflex irritability permits of only a very limited therapeutic application. Latterly, therefore, physicians have been somewhat sparing in their use of it, and rightly so; and though recently De Cerenville^^ claimed to have attamed extremely good results with it in myelitis, tabes, and bulbar paralysis, and Petrone^^ in infantile paralysis, and though Eulenburgss has been putting in a word for it, yet I suspect those things will not alter the general opinion. Strychnine seems mostly suited for those cases in which active morbid processes have come to an end, and where we have still to overcome some functional inhibition in the conducting paths. Examples of this are found in conditions of old-standing motor weakness, pareses of the bladder or rectum, sexual debility, and so forth.f The therapeutic reputation of phosphor as in these diseases has fared still worse. It was first applied by Delpech, in 1863, * A case recorded by Pnsinelli,*^ of Leipzig:, is very interesting and instrnctive m this connection. The case was one of locomotor ataxia with a history of two attacks of syphilis. Besides the tabes there were various other lesions un- doubtedly syphilitic—syphilitic lupus on the forehead, cutaneous gummata over the back, swelling of the testicle, and indolent swellings of all the lymphatic glands. With very energetic specific treatment—mercuric inunction, and between 35 and 40 grains of the iodide daily—the lesions over the forehead and back almost completely recovered, and the swelling of the testicle diminished very much. At the same time, however, the disease of the cord got worse. Warm baths were tried for the latter, but also with unfavourable result. Improvement followed the use of nitrate of silver and the application of the galvanic current to the back. Lehmann (Eehme-Oeynhausen) has recorded the following: A man 31 years of age, with a history of syphilis years before, was treated with large doses of iodide and steadily got worse; complete recovery followed a four weeks' course of thermal baths in Eehme with galvanisation of the back and small doses (12 grains daily) of iodide of sodium. t Strychnine is still largely employed in optic atrophy of spinal origin, and in these cases is generally given subcutaneously. According to Michel^ this treat- ment has hitherto proved quite useless, and my own limited experience leads me to the same conclusion.