262 EKB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. of the previously mentioned autopsies have confirmed me in my scruples. The considerations which weigh with me are various. The muscles depend for their nutrition to a very large extent on trophic nerve centres ; the localisation of this atrophy frequently follows in a noticeable way the exact course of the nerves in a plexus, or the disposition of the centres in the central organ, and occasionally we find a case of spinal amyotrophy (Striimpell's case presenting an almost exactly similar arrangement. Hereditar}^ influence is of great importance; mental aberra- tions are common among the. patients, and other neuroses frequently occur in their families. Further, even in the undoubtedly spinal cases, such as acute anterior poliomyelitis, :.similar morbid changes (hypertrophy, proliferation of nuclei, ■division of the fibres) both in the muscles and connective tissue have been pointed out by W. Mliller Dejerine- Huet Joffi'oy-Achard and Hitzig 29. In pseudo-hyper- trophic cases malformations and changes of a minor kind in the spinal cord have been met with. When I consider these facts, and bear in mind further the results of Heubner's^^ and Frohmaier's observations, I cannot avoid the suspicion that -after all the affection may be dependent on the nervous system. It is tempting to suppose, as I formerly expressed it, that we have to do mth a kind of trophoneurosis, having its origin in the trophic centres of the cord—a disturbance of the function of these centres which finds its expression in the ver}^ complicated muscle changes of the disease. While on this supposition there are, as a rule, no coarse nerve changes, now and then, and after the affection has lasted a long time or been very intense, such a change does become visible. The idea is inevitable that if something like this is the case the relations between dystrophy and spinal amyotrophy will turn out again in the end to be close and intimate. The latter would represent an affection of the trophic centres that fi-om the very first is a distinct coarse anatomical lesion taking eftect in a degenerative atrophy of the muscles M'ith fibrillar twitchings, reaction of degeneration, &c. ; the former at the outset would be merely a functional disturbance of these centres, conditioned probably by different causes, and expressing itself as muscular dystrophy with all its characteristic symptoms. At the same