286 PEYEll ON ASTHMA AND the patient gained 7 kilograms (15 lbs.). Spermatorrhoea ceased nocturnal emissions occurred normally, and his gait became steady again. About two years after the end of treatment I heard from Mr. L. that he was quite well, the sexual functions quite normal, and he had no trace of asthma. Case Y1.—Long-continued Sexual Abuse. Asthmatic Attach, esioecially after Coitus. In September, 1883, Mr. M., commercial traveller, consulted me for very troublesome attacks of asthma, which came on once or twice a week. He was 28 years of age, of medium height, well developed, and looked healthy. He was a heavy smoker, and, from the nature of his occupation, drank more than was good for him. Frequent matutinal sickness, appetite and digestion otherwise normal, sleep good. About two years ago he had the first attack of asthma, although during the whole of his military service as foot soldier he bore the greatest fatigue without any discomfort. The first attack came on after sexual connection, and up to the time of observation he almost regularly suffered in this manner. As regards sexual intercourse the patient stated he had but little desire, in fact ejaculatio seminis occurred almost immedi- ately on attempt at coitus, and moreover an asthmatic attack would follow so regularly that coitus almost became impossible. He gave a history of long-continued sexual abuse, and, in con- sequence, frequent nocturnal emissions. Physical examination revealed slight faucial catarrh with moderate emphysema. Urine, which was only examined once, was normal. I did not see the patient again, who only happened to consult me whilst on his travels. Case VII.—Temjjorary Aspermatismus. Asthma. Mr. K., farmer, setat. 59, a tall, somewhat thin and anaemic man, sufiered for some years past from periodic asthma, which occasionally was followed by slight feeling of " oppression." Generally these attacks came on after sexual inter- course, which had undergone a peculiar modification. When 40, he married quite a young lady, who bore him four children in quick succession.