181 HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. field of vision, uniformly bright. Change : appearance of parallel black streaks. Each division = -2 per cent, of sugar. Errors of the polarisation method : presence of other sub- stances, dextro- Or Itevo-rotatory, difficulty of fixation of the instrument with dark-coloured urine (if this is decolourised by acetate of lead, as is usually the case, a considerable quantity of sugar is lost in the process). In the absence of other means, the urinometer may be used as an indicator, where the quantity of sugar excreted is consider- able. Eor, with a large amount of sugar in greatly diluted urine, the change in the specific gravity, which varies tolerably regularly with the quantity of sugar, and by means of Haser's coefficient 2-33, an approximately serviceable conclusion may be arrived at. Thus if urine after considerable dilution show a sp. gr. of 1030, then 30 x 2-33 = 69-9 grms. in a litre, or 6-99 per cent, of sugar will not be far from correct. The perchloride of iron reaction serves to demon- strate the presence of diacetic acid (acetic vinegar, according to Gerhardt, aethyl-diacetic acid). On the addition of this reagent the urine assumes a red-brown colour, which disappears on adding hydrochloric acid. If the urine be pre- viously boiled for half-an-hour, no reaction with the perchloride of iron takes place, but an odour of acetone is frequently given off. For the demonstration of acetone in the urine :— I. The so-called Iodoform reaction maybe employed. A small quantity of urine is decomposed by caustic potash and by excess of a solution of potassium iodide containing iodine. After standing for a short time, six-sided crystals of iodoform separate out, and its characteristic odour is perceptible. II. The nitro-prussiate of Sodium reaction. A beautiful red cloud is obtained on adding to the urine caustic potash and a solution of nitro-prussiate of sodium. Schlossing-Neubauer's method maybe used for determining the presence of ammonia in the urine. This depends upon the ammonia, which exists free in a watery fluid, evaporating and subsequently undergoing absorption by dilute sulphuric acid in a confined space. For the execution of this test, the following reagents are necessary : 1. Normal sulphuric acid (1 ccm. of the acid containing -04 grm.. of SOj) ; 2. Freshly prepared lime water; 3. Normal caustic soda solution (1 ccm. neutralising