HOF.MEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS, 190 Nevertheless there are certain general measures, hygienic, dietetic, and medicinal, which should regulate treatment at the beginning, and in the further course of the disease may be variously modified according to the nature of the case. A. DIETETIC TREATMENT. Foremost stands the principle of eliminating as much as possible the carbo-hydrates from the nutriment. It is absolutely impossible to get rid of them entirely, as even purely animal fare, meat and eggs contains carbo-hydrates. Chemically pure albumen would have to be administered, which, however, would not maintain the bodily condition, let alone improve it. The various forms of sugar—cane, fruit, grape and, milk sugar- are the most harmful. Inosite, inulin, and laevulose, which are also sugars, form an exception, inasmuch as, from experience, their consumption is not attended by any excretion of sugar in the urine. The same holds good for mannite, which, though sweet, is an alcohol and not a sugar. Practically these, together with glycerine, which is harmless to many, are readily used by many diabetics, while others do not find them a substitute for cane and fruit sugar. Honey, on account of its chiefly con- taining laevulose, may be allowed in moderation. All these sugar substitutes have been thrown into the shade owing to the discovery of saccharin a few years ago. This substance exceeds all other known kinds of sugar in sweetness some 300 times ; very little is needed to confer the usual amount of sweet- ness to food and drink. At first, from its being difficult to dissolve, it was little used, now it has become general owing to its solubility being increased through combination with soda, and its cost being much reduced. All diabetics may take it without restriction. I have never been able to detect any injurious effect, either in digestion or in any other respect, but where from its great sweetness it may nauseate, it is better to dispense with it. Next to sugar, bread and other farinaceous articles are most harmful owing to the abundance of starch they contain. The deprivation of bread is the most difficult to bear, for the patient can give up everything else, e.g., farinaceous foods, confectionery, and sweet fruits, much more easily than bread. This great longing for bread must always be borne in mind by the physician.