308 STllUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. may occasionally constijbnte the only evidence of the affection. We may then, in fact, speak of a pure traumatic psychosis. Next to the psychical symptoms come a second group of disturbances, also of uncommonly frequent occurrence, and there- fore of the greatest diagnostic and practical importance—the sensory abnormalities, especially the anassthesiae. The merit of having drawn attention to the occurrence of this class of symptoms belongs among the German physicians chiefly to Thomsen and Oppenheim. Their practical importance consists in this, that their objective existence can generally be easily established, and statements regarding them formulated, making them very valuable as a basis for a professional opinion and report. The examination of the sensory functions in every case of traumatic neurosis must extend to all the special senses. The patients' own statements do not generally assist us much. They certainly sometimes remark, of their own accord, that their eyes get dim or that all their food has an insipid taste. They also complain of too great susceptibility to all the more violent kinds of sense-impressions—strong lights, loud noises, &c. But the actual extent of the sensory lesions can only be determined by a careful objective examination. If certain parts of the body, for example, one side of the thorax or a portion of the spinal column, have been specially affected by the injury there is, as a rule, at this part a remarkable tenderness on deep pressure. The skin here, also, is sometimes hypergesthetic, and a slight prick with a needle is felt as acutely painful. Not infrequently, however, the skin over the part in question is antesthetic, and pricking deeply with the needle ^Droduces no sensation at all, or at least none that is painful. But, in general, the cases where the chief disturb- ances are found just at the seat of the injury belong more to the local traumatic neuroses of which I shall speak later, ^et we must particularly note that profound disturbances of sensi- bility may be present in parts of the skin far removed from the seat of injury, and in cases where there has been a general shock to the whole body such disturbances may be found in a number of different places. The distribution of these anomalies follows no rule Sometimes we find large anfesthetic patches on the breast on the back, in the face, or on the scalp, sometmies anscsthesia of one or more extremities in their whole extent or