BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 24 If we succeed in excluding every other kind of stimulus, espe- cially all kinds of microbes, this growth in contiguous wound- surfaces will continue for about six to eight days, by which time the softened edges of the wound will in some measure have be- come blended; the foetal growth with its rich formation of cells now ceases, the foetal connective tissue becomes converted into cicatricial connective tissue, and the luxuriation of muscular cells and nerve and vascular cells altogether stops. If the different tissues are placed into accurate juxtaposition, the muscles will unite with muscular tissue, nerves with nerve tissue, and vessels with their orifices, and after the lapse of some time it will be scarcely possible to discover the cicatrice. As in the foetus, so also here, everything is in the beginning formed in excess, especially in the primitive vascularisation. In like manner, as the whole foetal capillary network of the vitreous body disappears, so also in the cicatrix the numerous vessels, which will no longer be necessary for the subsequent nutrition of the tissue with its regular circulation of fluids, will disappear; the cicatrix, which in the beginning had been thick and red, embryonic condition, so likewise an already developed tissue can never again recover its former embryonic state." This seems to me a battle with, the wind- mills. Surely nobody would ever have thought of understanding the term " (mbryonic" employed in patholos-ic histology in such a sense that the cells, which for the purpose of regeneration of tissues are produced from elements of the latter, are equivalent, let us say, to the segmentation spheres of the ovum. The terms " embryonic" or "■faHal" are here only intended to express, that a tissue which had already arrived at its termination of growth, may again return to a growing, i.e., juvenile state. We use here the term " return" (•' zuriickkehren ") because we suppose in most of the animal tissues, at the same time with the termination of growth, a finished boundary state beyond which there is no further advance ; JiaM himself also speaks of developed Hssues" {" aufffebil- deten Geweben "). Our interpretation of these processes of tissue regeneration in man (entirely leaving out of the question the inflammatory process) is shortly as follows : man is composed of a number of tissues which entirely consist of cells and of fluid, as the epithelia, the blood, and the lymph. Epithelial strata com- posed of several layers not even in old people attain in the deepest layers a fnlly developed state, they continue to form and grow as long as the organism lives. Of the process of multiplication and regeneration of the red blood corpuscles in fully developed organisms we know almost nothing. Of the lymph cells we merely suppose that they may be produced by division or budding from the elements of the lymphatic glands, the spleen and the medulla of the bones. We know of the corneal epithelium, that defects arc not replaced from the depth, not from the corneal elements, bat by lateral sprouting of the epithelial cells which surround the defect; I must however waive the question whether an alteration takes place in the cellular substance itself, or whether the corneal epithelium never is developed," but perhaps is equivalent to the cells of the Eete Malpighii. As regards the simple fibrous tissue, with which I