ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROrHY. 239 The details are as follows: pectorals gone on each side, all hiil the clavicular portion ; trapozii all but disappeared ; latissinii on the right side almost altogether, on left in great part gone; serrati magni the same ; rhomboids atro]-)liic(l to a slight extent; biceps on right side greatly atrophied and weak, on the left in tht' lower half as on the right, in the upper half contracting strongly into a hard lump; brachialis anticus on the right side more atrophied than on the left; supinator longus almost quite absent on both sides ; triceps greatly ati'ophied on both sides, more on the left; extensors in the forearm on right side partially gone, also first and second interossei on right side somewhat weak and wasted; erector spinas a little weak on both sides, especially on the right; lateral abdominal muscles distinctly weak. In marked contrast to these the following muscles are normal or even enlarged and very powerful: sterno-mastoid distinctly enlarged; levator anguli scapulce, splenius, muscles of the nock and supraspinatus noi'mal and very powerful; infraspinatus on both sides hypertrophied and very hard; tcretes andsubscapularis normal; recti abdominis very powerful, distinctly hypertrophied ; deltoid on both sides hypertrophied, very powerful; extensors in the forearm on right side only partly preserved, on left veiy powerful, and for the most part hypertrophied; flexors in the fore- arm very powerful, and in part distinctly hypertrophied, especially on left side; small muscles of the hand on left side quite, on right for the most part, normal. Dynamometer marks on the right side SC, on the left 50°; iipper arm is 2 to 3 cm. less in circumference than the forearm. you take hold of the patient by the armpits, as if you were going to lift him into the air by the shoulders, the shoulders go up at once to the ears, the patient having no power of fixing them below (absence of the latissimi and pectorals). If the arm raised to the horizontal level is brought down strongly against powerful opposition, the scapula is strongly drawn towards the upper arm and its angle is moved outwards (defective fixation by the trapezius and rhomboids). These are two very characteristic symptoms. The thorax is widened out at the sides with slight eversion of the lower edges (weakness of the lateral abdominal muscles). In the lower extremities there is only enlargement of the muscles. The glutaai are large, very powerful, and distinctly hyper- trophied; the quadriceps, sartorius, tensor fascijB, and adductors all appear unquestionably hypertrophied, and display great strength • the muscles of the legs are normal, powerful, perhaps hyper- trophied (his riding-trousers have become too narrow for him). The muscles feel in some parts very tough and firm, in others softer and more flaccid. No fibrillar twitchings ; mechanical irritability lowered when there is atrophy; where there is hyper-