HOFMEISTER OS DIABETES MELLITUH. 187 Minkowski. He refers the origin of coma to this acid; he found whenever the urine contains diacetic acid, oxy-butyric acid is also always present, even if the former be absent. In his opinion the perchloride of iron reaction has a very important significa- tion, as it betrays the presence at the same time of oxy-butyric acid. Pari fassiL there is an increased excretion of ammonia (3 to 4 grms [about 46 to 62 grs.] of ammonia to 30 grms [about 450 grs.] of oxy-butyric acid). Stadelmann considers the increase of ammonia in the urine as one of the most important prognostic signs. If more than 1-10 grms (16^ grs.) are excreted daily, the danger threatens that diabetes will pass into the grave form. Should it amount to 2—4—6 grms. (about 31—62—93 grs.) daily, the sudden appearance of coma may be constantly expected, and the friends of the patient should be warned. Treatment of coma diabeticorum. If the ammonia is on the increase the meat diet must be diminished forthwith, bread, vegetables, and fruit substituted in moderation, and the following draught ordered :— About. R Acidi citrici grm viij. (123 grs.), Sodii carbonatis ... ... grm xviij. (278 grs.). Saccbarini ... ... grm-1 (1^ grs.). Aquae destillatse ... ... grm cl (5 oz,). Spiritus menth86 Piperitse gtt iij. S. To be taken two or three times in 24 hours. If coma is already present, Stadelmami recommends without delay intravenous injection of a solution of carbonate and chloride of sodium (7 to 10 grms. [about 108 to 150 grs.] of sodium carbonate to every 100 grms. [about 1,500 grs.] of normal sodium chloride solution) varying from 1 to Ig litres [about 33| fl. oz. to 50| oz.] which should be discontinued the moment threatening symptoms manifest themselves—stopping of the pulse or of the respiration, or presence of convulsions—to be renewed after an interval or so. Formerly subcutaneous injections of camphor, ether, cold affusion, and other excitants were employed, unfortunately without success. It remains to be seen whether the intravenous injection of alkalis is followed by better results.