ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA 66 classification. Listen to these designations—" Agoraphobia " or " Topophobia," fear of public places; " Claustrophobia," fear in an enclosed space; "Moiiophobia," fear of loneliness; "Anthropo- phobia," fear of meeting with people ; " Mysophobia," fear of dirt; " Phobophobia," fear of attacks of uneasiness; " Patho- phobia," fear of diseases; " Siderophobia," fear of being struck by lightning; " Siderodromophobia," fear of railways; " Hypso- phobia," fear of heights; " Batophpbia," fear of the collapse of lofty objects ; " Pantophobia," fear of ever3i:hing possible. You see, gentlemen, the number of these conditions of fright, and of their Greek-derived synonyms, might be still further increased; but there is no need for such a classification. It suffices to be acquainted with the most important sources of terror with which such patients are tormented. They not unfrequently constitute the most important part of the disease, to such an extent indeed that the other symptoms of neurasthenia are relegated quite to the background. The phenomena which are most generally found in conjunc- tion with the conditions of fright just mentioned' are vertigo, with attacks of pain and spasm in the stomach, as well as nausea and tendency to sivoon. These sensations attain an especially high development if the patient cannot escape from the cause of his uneasiness, or seeks to overcome his dread. At the same time there generally arises in addition a painful restlessness m the limbs, an unquiet tendency to walk up and down, feelings of misery and exhaustion, loss of hope, sudden sensations of heat, and perspiration of the hands. Sleeplessness also accompames the conditions of uneasiness, when these latter are persistent and do not allow the patient to rest, even at night. The paniful ideas attain a gigantic size during the stillness of the night m the imagination of the sufierer, and excite palpitation, sudden feelings of heat, itching of the skin, anxietas tihiarum, so that sleep is driven away for hours and only comes on towards morning. Such conditions are often developed temporarily even among''perfectly healthy men, under the influence of severe mental labour, or through sorrow and anxiety, but disappear at once on removal of the cause. Among neurasthenics, however, the feelings of mental uneasiness and despair are altogether out of proportion to the causes, nay, the latter may even be quite unreal, existing only in the patient's imagination.