HOFMEISTEU 0\ DIABETES MELLITUS. IGl on into the systemic circulation without undergoing change into glycogen, on the other hand hepatic glycogen is more rapidly converted into sugar and carried away. The first source depends on the nervous system, the second on a local disturbance in the intestinal and hepatic circulation. Consequently, Senator dis- tinguishes a neurogenic, a gastro-enterogenic and a hepatogenic form of Diabetes. Ebstein's theory refers the origin of the disease to the proto- plasm of the cells of most of the organs and tissues. In Diabetics, through abnormal nerve-influence, protoplasm has lost the property of producing as much carbonic acid from an equal quantity of carbohydrates as in healthy persons. Ebstein says he has found by experiment that the action of diastatic ferments is impeded by the presence of a certain amount of carbonic acid. In diabetics, owing to deficiency of car- bonic acid, cai'bohydrate material, especially glycogen, is insufficiently protected from their influence, and is conse- ( juently converted prematurely and in relatively large quantities, into easily difiusible carbohydrates, particularly sugar, and this passing from the tissues into the circulation is rapidly excreted with the urine. Furthermore, owing to diminished oxidation and formation of carbonic acid, the need of oxygen in diabetes is decreased, and consequently the bodily temperature is lowered.* On this view Ebstein proposes to administer carbonic acid con- stantly, viz., by means of injection into the rectum. How far this theory is justified depends on further researches in this direction. I will now return to those investigators who regard a diminished consumption rather than an increased forma- tion of sugar as the proximate cause of diabetes, such as the majority of recent writers, and also Mering and Minkovski, whose very important experiments were mentioned at the outset. Should it be settled beyond cavil that after excision of the pancreas either with or without injury to the coeliac plexus, not only artificial glycosuria occurs constantly, with perhaps a small quantity of sugar and of transient duration, but also genuine diabetes with its cardinal symptoms: persistent excretion of sugar in great abundance, intolerance of carbohydrates, progres- sive proteid waste and abnormal amount of sugar in the blood, * Voit and Pettenkofer have found by direct analysis that diabetics consume less oxygen and exhale les3 carbonic acid and watery vapour. M