105 ACTION OF THAGOCYTES. teristic conglomerate structures originate, in which we find whole heaps of objects that have been eaten, but in which the nucleus of the macrophagus, though hidden, can always be demonstrated. This theory has met with very active opposition from various quarters. Its opponents allow that schizomycetes are taken up into the bodies of small and large cells, but decline to see in this any tendency to a healing process, preferring to view it as merely a mechanical intussusception of the bacilli, by means of which they gradually undergo certain changes of form. According to Metschnikoff the protoplasm of the cell kills the schizomycetes, so that they are gradually broken up into debris, or at any rate their virulence is so weakened that they are incapable of pro- ducing infection. The interesting facts bearing on the relation of phagoc}i}es to tubercular attacks, which Metschnikoff brings forward in his latest publications, are of especial interest as bear- ing on our subject, and we look forward with some impatience to his promised further contributions on the whole question, and to the controversy to which they will give rise. It would correspond with the knowledge of the subject of tuber- cular infection which we gain in practice, were we to assume, first, that a bacillary attack on a perfectly healthy organism is at once turned ofi' and rendered innocuous; secondly, that on a pre- disposed organism, with a weak cellular energy, while it may not be completely deprived of its virulence, it is made harmless for the moment through the isolative action of the fixed connective tissue-cells; and lastly, that when the bacilli are in great num- bers, and the organs are weakened, all opposition is overcome, and death rapidly follows. In this last connection I may direct your attention to the fact, that it is possible that patients with rapid softening may aspirate pulmonary debris from the cavities into all parts of the air- passages. Such debris contains bacilli, and this autoinfection of parts of the lungs previously sound, explains quite clearly the extensive tubercular pneumonias which are so common in the later stages of chronic phthisis. Tuberculosis of the larynx is almost without exception a secondary affection following on primary tubercle of the lung. Primary laryngeal tuberculosis, of course, if looked at as a pro- duct of infection by inhalation, cannot be said to be impossible, but as a matter of fact the epithelium here seems to present very