159 HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. conveyed thence to the tissues. In an animal weigliing 40 kilograms, he found the surprising amount of 433 grms. of sugar. In order to keep so great an amount of sugar in equilibrium in the body a very large proportion of carbo-hydrate material must be used up for the formation of sugar, and con- sequently this must be one of the most important functions of metabolism. As regards the use of sugar in the body, Seegen believes that it serves for the generation of heat and energy. As to what is the origin of the sugar, as already mentioned, he takes up quite an opposite standpoint to Bernard. He maintains sugar is not formed in the liver from glycogen, but from albumen (]!^epton) and fat, although no one has succeeded in obtaining it chemi- cally from albuminous substances outside the body. He supports his statements by a series of feeding experiments on animals. His conclusions are— First. That the carbo-hydrates of the food are converted in the liver into glycogen, which is thence carried by the blood- stream to the muscles, lungs, cartilages, &c., and deposited there. Second. That glycogen is in all probability the material for fat formation, and is stored up in the body with that object. In fasting, glycogen disappears, and, indirectly owing to failure of supply, so does the fat. When the hepatic cells lose their function of converting sugar, already formed in the alimentary canal during digestion and brought by the portal system to the liver, into glycogen, so that it reaches the general circulation, and is, to a certain extent, excreted in the urine, then the slight form ofDiabetes is said to exist, in which, namely, the excretion of sugar ceases as soon as the sugar-forming element in the nutriment is cur- tailed. If, however, the organism fails to consume the sugar normally formed from albumen and fat (in the process of meta- bolism), the grave form of Diabetes arises, where sugar is excreted even with an exclusive meat diet. The Eetiolosrical factor in both forms lies in the nervous system. Seegen's theory, which, to a large extent, rests on speculation, has experienced several attacks, and the disputes concerning it are still far from settled. The blood of Diabetics has been