DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 291 been persistently profuse, which she attributed to the change of life. As she had been undergoing treatment for a considerable period without any result, and the lungs were quite healthy, with the exception of slight emphysema, I proposed a vaginal exami- nation, which, however, was declined. A year later, one of my colleagues informed me that she con- sulted him, and was then vaginally examined. A fibroid about the size of the fist was found protruding into the vagina. This was removed ; the menorrhagia and the asthma ceased. Other writers have reported cases where displacement and catarrh of the uterus, leucorrhoea, &c., were at the bottom of the attacks of asthma they sufiered from. That form of asthma, due to spasm of the diaphragm, seems to me to be particularly frequent in women. I have observed a number of such cases, more or less marked, two only of which I shall briefly mention as typical in every respect. Case XII.—Phrenic Asthma. Uterine Catarrh. A. M., ffitat. 17, native of the Black Forest, Baden, good com- plexion, and in comfortable circumstances, had been suffering from depression of spirits, shortly after the appearance of the menses, between 15 and 16. Her mother and brother were also liable to fits of depression (slight melancholia). She was given to weeping, apparently at nothing, and was always moody. When she was about 17, slight attacks of asthma came on at varying intervals during the day and night. She said she felt great oppression on the chest, and wanted to take a deep breath ; the attempt did not succeed, and inspiration became impossible, causing her great fear and alarm. When in bed she had to sit up, kneel forward, and then recline. All at once she managed to draw in a breath, and immediately she felt all right again. However, by degrees these attacks became more frequent and intense. For quite half the day and night she suffered dreadfully for want of breath. Unable to breathe properly she became almost maniacal, springing out of bed and knocking everything about her. In the intervals she was confused and melancholy. No remedies did her any good. About this time she became pregnant by her lover, and her symptoms completely disappeared. She married and bore a