114 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. produce in bones a rarefying ostitis, but that they eventually are for the most part fixed by eburnified tissue, or embedded in larger or smaller capsules or strata of fibrous tissue. Fischer observed that shot which had penetrated into bone are mostly enclosed by fragments of bone; and on the other hand, it has been stated that bone-splinters had been enclosed within the projectile. Arnold found a bullet lodged on the uninjured seventh rib, clothed by almost unaltered cellular tissue, with which it was intimately connected, whilst it could be moved about uioon the rib. The surrounding cellular tissue was only slightly thichened. Weiss mentions the healing-in of a bullet in the hand; and von Bergmann once found a revolver-ball between the second and third meta- carpal bone in a, firm capside of connective tissue, which contained besides the ball a few drops of serous fluid. Szydlowshj found a piece of shell connected with the periost of the rib by a band- shaped callous adhesion. There was also an angular piece of bone impacted in the metal. Very frequently in prolonged suppuration only partial healing- in into solid hardened osseous tissue takes place, as, e.g., in the case in which Kroenlein extracted a Minie-ball which had kept up suppuration for eleven years. Ehrmann found a revolver-ball free in the knee-joint. Fischer diagnosed, in the year 1878, a bullet in an officer which lay under the great pectoral muscle from 1866 to 1876 without causing any reaction, but which afterwards produced suppuration. It was covered by calcareous deposits, and Fischer states that he constantly found lime on bullets which had produced suppuration during many years. It may here be mentioned that ivandering of bidlets has, if not frequently, still undoubtedly been observed; the tissue having been worn away by the continued pressure of heavy bullets, which gravitate deeper whilst their track is closed by granulations. I have not yet been able to ascertain in many instances the wander- ing of small bullets or small shot, which so frequently heal in. Von Bergmann is of opinion that gravitation of bullets does not take place as a rule even in soft tissues, viz., the substance of the brain, although Flourens had observed it. Numerous post-mortem examinations prove that smooth hiife- blades had, without causing suppuration, or any kind of symptoms, healed-in in the cranium, the back, and particularly when