PIOFiMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 171 sugar, liis suspicions being aroused by the results of his examination. Besides the eye, the gustatory nerve is liable to bo affected. A mawkish and sweet taste is constantly present, so that patients either do not taste their food at all, or eveiything seems sweet- ened. To many this even amounts to loathing, which is all the stronger the longer they have been deprived of sugar. It is remarkable that many diabetics without any gustatory affection, who have discarded the use of sugar for some time, are not able to enjoy anything sweet, and least of all saccharin offered as a substitute. Griesinger reports some cases of dulness of hearing in diabetes. Hitherto I have not observed a single case, although I have noted here and there tinnitus aurium in the absence of other signs of disease of the middle or internal ear. Condition of the nervous system. On account of the almost positive setiological relationship between diabetes and disease of the central nervous system, several forms of nerve disturbance may be expected a priori. In fact there is probably no single case in which one nervous symptom or another is not prominent. Owing to their somewhat frequent occurrence, some of these have already been described at length, e.g., impotence, amblyopia, languor, &c. Next in importance is agrypnia, which may exist to a very marked degree. I remember some cases where, according to the statements of the patients and their friends, for several years 2 hours sleep out of 24 was quite suflicient for their requirements. Insomnia is very difficult to surmount, even when every trace of sugar has disappeared from the urine and the general condition improved. Disturbances of common sensation are not infrequent. Paraesthesiffi, pins and needles, formication, sensation of oppression at the joints, of heat, and of cold, in various regions. Hyperffisthesias, or even severe neuralgia generally in the course of the great sciatic nerve, in the occiput, or under the well-known form of hemicrania, besides in various joints as well as in internal organs, e.g., stomach, uterus, ovaries, kidneys, &c. Their spontaneous and bilateral appearance, the severity and long duration of the paroxysms, accompanied by the rapid development of vaso-motor disturbances in the affected regions, are characteristic of diabetic neuralgias.