STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 312 associate sucli disturbances with the well-known facts in regard to the influence of mental emotion, especially of those of a depressing kind, on the nutrition of the hair. Organic changes in the internal organs are, as might be understood, absent in pure traumatic neuroses. Functional disturbances, however, are frequently present, especially in the organs on whose activity mental states have most influence. For example, many patients complain particularly of want of appetite, oppressive feelings about the stomach, nausea—in short, of the symptoms of nervous dyspepsia. If, in consequence, an insuffi- cient amount of food is taken, then, in addition to the general emaciation previously referred to, there is, of course, irregularity in the action of the bowels. The action of the heart, as in almost all nervous persons, is generally quickened and very easily affected by external circumstances. Any mental emotion, and especially any medical examination, is apt to bring on great palpitation and acceleration of the pulse. Pronounced derange- ment of the bladder-functions is in purely neurotic conditions absent; and the inability to empty the bladder completely, which many patients complain of, is, as a rule, only one mani- festation of the general want of muscular energy. The lowered condition of sexual desire which is often present may also be associated with the mental depression. Where there are sexual or vesical disturbances of a graver kind they indicate, probably, coarse lesion of the nervous system, and do not come under consideration in traumatic neurosis proper. After this endeavour to bring before you the clinical details of so well-defined a disease, we shall now pass to the question of what we are to think of the nature and origin of the condition. The answer is not very easy, and neurologists differ very much from one another in their views. If we glance over the whole complex of symptoms we notice an undeniable similarity to a great number of cases of what is called general neurasthenia. In both conditions there is a large number of subjective complaints, and abundant proof that both the mental and bodily activity are interfered with, and yet in neither is there anything present pointing to a definite localised anatomical lesion. It has been, therefore, proposed to call traumatic neurosis simply " traumatic neurasthenia." But, on the other hand, in traumatic neurosis there is, as a rule, a whole set of symptoms which are not