SALZEE ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 139 superficial that in general there can be no certainty that there is still another layer of cells above the vascular wall. If we examine from the teleological standpoint the tissue alterations at the end of the process of healing-in of foreign bodies, we shall find that the organism in general strives firmly to encompass the foreign object in order not to give it room to have wearing-away or eroding efi'ects. This will not occur in the case of relatively heavy, very pointed or sharp foreign bodies, or under all circumstances, though the weight may be never so slight, in the case of perfectly smooth foreign bodies, as in this case there will be no absolute and persistent contact between the object and the same portion of tissue. Again, profuse exudation may, to a certain degree, in a movable organ protect the tissue against the mechanical effects, as the foreign body balloting in a large cyst cavity will, at least not con- tinuously, prick, cut, or in general touch the same spot; under complete rest the amount of serum will be reduced to a minimum. Even the silk thread, which in the cutis or in the fatty tissue in most cases heals-in in a small callosity, may be found in a cyst in the neighboui'hood of a pulsating blood-vessel or in the muscles. In this case it is not the movement of the foreign body, but the movement of the tissue itself which causes this condition. On the other hand, the heavy leaden bullet, the smooth-walled pointed needle, or other similar objects, which, as a rule, are found lying in cysts, may be firmly impacted in the bone, or in a similar, but little movable tissue, without any kind of cyst-formation being perceivable. Therapeutic declitctions from these observations. If we wish to draw practical conclusions from the preceding observations, we may from the contemplation, especially of the erosion caused by bullets and needles in cystic cavities, in regard to the possibility of an erosion of blood-vessels or of the intestines, be convinced of the necessity for extirpation of these foreign bodies under all circumstances, even in the absence of any kind of objective signs of irritation,—of course only in regions of the body where this danger is imminent. Apart from similar, so to say, defensive conclusions, however, we ought to weigh in our mind whether we may not take