166 HOFMEISTER OX DIABETES MELLITUS. symptom the presence of which can be reckoned upon witli certainty, or which may not be so faintly indicated as to be of doubtful diagnostic value. Again, many a symptom which as a rule is met with at the very outset of diabetes may appear late or not at all. On the other hand, many late symptoms may be observed quite early, which, however, goes to show that we are rarely in a position to determine precisely the commencement of the disease. 1. Polyuria. The patient's attention is generally drawn to this symptom by being awaked through distension of the bladder once or twice during the night, and by the chamber vessel being fuller than usual. The painlessness of micturition and the uninterrupted stream on the one hand, the striking abundance of the voided urine on the other, show that the distension does not depend upon any local cause, such as incontinence or stone. The quantity may be five or six times the normal amount (1500 to 2000 ccm. (50 to 68 oz.) in 24 hours). In diabetes more fluid is got rid of by the urine than is taken into the body in the form of liquid, and is only slightly less than the total amount of water taken, including that contained in the solids. Enuresis nocturnais a frequent observation in children with polyuria, and therefore in such cases the urine should be always examined. Polyuria generally bears a direct relation to the amount of sugar in the urine ; exceptions are, however, occasionally met with. 2. Polydipsia and Polyphagia are among the initial symptoms; beginning with dryness of the mouth, excessive thirst is gradually developed. Patients are continually drinking without being able to quench thirst. Appetite increases till it becomes at times bulimia, and especially when meat diet is taken to the exclusion of all starchy foods, many patients cease to know what satiety means. In a minority the opposite condition holds good, viz., complete abeyance of appetite. Even polydipsia alone or together with polyuria may be absent in some cases. Like appetite, the feeling of thirst may be lost (Diabetes decipiens, according to P. Frank). 3. Emaciation. This is not so striking to the eye in many cases of diabetes as in several other chronic affections, e.g., tuber- culosis, carcinoma, dyspepsia gravis. Indeed many patients retain their former healthy appearance even at the height of the disease, but more or less decrease in weight is always observable.