IIOFMEISTEK ON DIAUETCS MELLITUS. amount of sugar excreted. Tlie temperature rises only when intercurrent febrile affections attack the patients. It is interest- ing here to note that many fevers, presumably those that are accompanied by profound tissue changes, during their continua- tion cause the sugar to disappear from the urine. The great vulnerability of the skin and other organic tissues is noteworthy. Wounds and ulcers heal exceeding slowly ; the greater the amount of sugar, the greater the difficulty in healing. In fact, there is a tendency for injuries to become gangrenous, especially the toes, where a slight wound while paring a corn is sufficient to produce progressive gangrene which cannot always be checked. Moreover, gangrene makes its appearance spontaneously in serious cases, in various regions. Incised wounds rarely heal by first intention. Even scratch marks on the skin, due to pruritus, heal slowly, and readily fester. Hence the urine should be carefully examined every time before resorting to the knife or cautery. Operations which are not very pressing should be postponed until the last traces of sugar have disappeared, and if an operation has been performed, the diet should be most stringently regulated, until the wound ha^; completely healed. As regards the organs of respiration we have already mentioned that less oxygen is taken up and less carbonic acid and watery vapour given off, than in healthy persons. To what extent this weakened function in diabetes predisposes to lung disease is not yet ascertained. It is remarkable that almost half the number of patients become tubercular and die from phthisis, and that intercurrent croupous pneumonia and gangrene of the lungs are by no means so rare. If aeetona^mia is present, as happens most frequently in threatening coma, the breath of the patient becomes tainted with a peculiarly insipid, sour, fruity odour (like must or decaying apples). This is characteristic of diabetes, and is often so powerful as to diffuse itself in the room in a very short time. As regards the urinary and sexual organs, the nature of the urine is the leading feature ; as this is of pathognomonic importance it will be considered later on more fully. Impotence in men is a very important symptom, on account of its frequently being an early one. It varies from defective power of erection, to coinf)lete extinction of sexual desire ; any change in the