PEYEK ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 339 Forest, Baden, suffered from childhood from incontinence once or twice every night. Of four brothers and three sisters, one brother only suffered from enuresis up to his 18th year. Patient himself had noticed a marked improvement at the same age, without, however, his trouble completely subsiding. About this time he began to masturbate, and continued the bad habit for a year, when he gave it up, as he noticed his general health suffered. What particularly struck him was that the nocturnal incontinence became much more frequent, and that he now suffered continuously from headache, which he only occasionally had before. Sch. was always tired and languid, and though he no longer masturbated, his condition remained unaltered. It was then he came under my care. The genitals were poorly developed, no phimosis; urine normal; after standing some time a slight sediment was noticed consisting of mucus and leucocytes. After the introduction of a full-sized metallic bougie enuresis occurred but three times in a period of 10 days. Oberlander's dilator was then used ; two relapses only occurred during the following 12 days, and after another application of this in- strument the patient was cured. Case VII.—This case is chiefly interesting because it shows that the enuresis did not depend upon the inflamed long, narrow prepuce, but that the reflex irritation which produced the trouble had its seat in the urethra. A. Sp., setat. 13, a thin, miserable-looking lad, had been suffering ever since birth from severe enuresis. He was always tired, and most difficult to awake in the morning. During the day his head felt heavy, his thoughts were sluggish, and his apprehension dull. Prepuce long, narrow, reddened, and inflamed, as also the meatus urinarius. For some years he had indulged in mastur- bation. Treatment. —The prepuce was slit up, with no improvement, however ; thereupon a metallic bougie was introduced daily for some weeks. Cure. All the cases, III., IV., V., VI., VII., have the following points in common—