TREATMENT OF CHKONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 369 longer periods. In some affections, especially in tabes, a course of electricity should be repeated every year for some years. Electrical treatment may very suitably be used along with baths, and the other remedies of which we have yet to speak (drugs, massage, &c.). Erb^^ makes a very just remark when he says that " it is well not to take the matter of electrical treatment too lightly." Of course here, just as in other departments, we must not expect every physician to be an expert, and the mere possession of more or less elaborate apparatus does not make him one. The subject of diseases of the spinal cord is surrounded with difficul- ties, and whoever wishes to gain success in it with electricity, and to avoid doing harm, must be at least tolerably well acquainted with the handling of all the usual apparatus, and with their effects on the human body. Oases of spinal disease are, as a rule, not well adapted for apprentice efforts in electro- therapeutics. III.—Treatment by Derivatives. Until the last fifteen or twenty years the treatment of chronic affections of the cord by derivatives was universally one of the principal methods adopted. We can recognise very well the extent to which it was trusted from a remark made by Marshall Hall," to whom the pathology of the nervous system owes so much. For inflammation in the spinal canal he recommends in acute cases cupping, and in chronic cases setons and issues as the most efiective treatment they possessed. In Germany this derivative method has been forced quite into the background by the advances of hydro-therapeutics and electricity, but in France and England it still finds application, and apparently even more extensively than ever; one eminent French physician, Dujardin-Beaumetz, is even yet inclined to give it the very first place in the therapeutics of these diseases.* The general theory of counter-irritation is that it relieves the congestion around the spinal cord, and in this way forms the starting-point for, and facilitates the absorption of exudation. This is only partially, however, in harmony with actual facts. * Dujardin-Beaumetz. Lectures on Clinical Therapeutics, Vol. IIT., Part I.: Treatment of Diseases of the Nervous System, Paris, 1883, p. 282 the derivative method which clearly takes the first place in the treatment of diseases of the cord. li B