SALZEll ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. siderecl. I shall therefore select only a few, but in their v/ay instructive examples. The foreign body which is mentioned as having been most frequently healed over without reaction is evidently the steel needle, especially the sewing-needle. It is certain that in a very large namber, if not the majority of these cases, needles healed in without causing suppuration. We barely find from the older reports anything worth mentioning as to the kind of reaction. Breschet speaks of a white mucus around the needles healed-in under the skin, and states that the metal had become oxydised. A. Boran believes that such small inorganic foreign bodies may remain in the tissues without giving rise to any kind of sup- puration and ivithout hecoming encapsided. G. T. Weiss also states that needles have been found "almost" free. Hodge accidentally discovered, while dissecting a man, a sewing-needle in the hemisphere of the cerebrum with its point directed back- wards, which had been fixed to the dura mater by old cicatricial hands. Von Bergmann quotes from Th. Simon a second similar case. There was in the left hemisphere of a woman, seventy-three years of age, a needle resting upright on its eye, with the point in the left lateral ventricle. There was no defect on the skull above, only a minute external depression, and inside, corresponding to the latter, an exostosis. Manne found needles in the meninges near the vertex, which had been the cause of epileptic fits. The needles, according to the supposition of the authors, had been pushed through the fontanelles before the period of ossification. M. liuppert accidentally found in the heart of an elderly man a sewing-needle sticking in the posterior wall of the left ventricle, and protruding into it with its free end 5—6 mm. It was of jet- black colour, neither rough nor perfectly smooth, and was, as far as it penetrated the wall of the ventricle, covered by a thin, easilij cut, hluish-iuhite pellicle; whilst the extremely delicate sheath-like investment of the protruding portion of the needle was identified by the microscope as the puslied-up endocardium. This was luldtish-opague and covered luith pavement epithelium. Sandhorg, who found a needle 9 cm. long firmly sticking in the cardiac muscle, affirms the absence of great reaction after a similar injury. The head of the needle lay in the left ventricle, the remaining portion perforated the pericardium, the diaphragiHa, the liver, and the wall of the stomach, all which organs were