296 PEYER ON ASTHMA AND sugar; on several occasions, however, semen could be easily detected. Local treatment of the affection brought about complete cure of the asthma and other nerve symptoms. This case is particularly interesting, as it shows that the asthma appeared as a neurasthenic symptom alternating with headache and giddiness, sciatica and mental disturbance, and, further, that all these troubles disappeared on local treatment being systematically carried out. Case XVI.—Nasal Asthma Oombined luith Sexual Asthma. Mr. F., astat. 36, merchant, gave the following history : Up to his 16th year he enjoyed excellent health. When 14 he began to masturbate, and continued this vicious habit for several years (five to six times a day). When 17 he had a severe cold, which lasted some weeks. Up to that time he had not noticed any evil results from masturbation. Now his health began to give way, he became pale, anaBmic, monosyllabic, and morose, and tried to overcome his bad habit. He took no interest in female society, and up to 22 had only had sexual intercourse four times. The first two occasions virile power was quite normal, on the last it was distinctly weakened. When 24 he obtained the mastery to some extent over his passion, and thereupon nocturnal emissions began to occur. When 25 he had a severe attack of gonorrhoea, accompanied by swelled testicle, which laid him up for a month. When 29 he had the first attack of asthma, which at first happened monthly, then every three weeks, later on every fortnight, and at last every week, and at times more frequently still. Cold beer, wine, &c., in fact, any exposure to cold, had a particularly pernicious influence over these attacks. They, in turn, were usually followed by oft- recurring seminal emissions, which produced great nervousness. Compressed air and hydropathic treatment in Schonegg brought about some alleviation, which, however, did not last long. When 32, Mr. F. was under the care of Dr. Hack of Freiberg, who cauterised the thickened nasal mucosa. A marked improvement followed, which lasted some months, and no asthma occurred. His general health also greatly improved. Neverthe-