220 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. apparently desperate cases of the kind life may be saved by timely and energetic specific treatment. The case was one of a mercliaiit, 37 years of age, in comfortable circumstances. After I had examined him in his own house he was admitted, on my direction, into a private room in the hospital in February, 1881, with the diagnosis, " syphilitic cerebro-spiual menino'itis." Patient had a chancre in 1862 followed by buboes, and after- wards a skin eru]3tion. Treatment with suljihur baths got the better of the latter after it had persisted for half a year. In 1872 he had a vesicular eruption in the neck, which he said disappeared after eight days. In the last year or two rheumatic pains coming and going in the shoulders and legs. In April, 1880, suddenly seized with severe pains down the whole left side, worst in the abdominal and lower thoracic region. In June a feeling of ntimbness round the body. In August and September remission of pains and onset of ansesthesia over the whole left half of the trunk. In October severe headache, especially in the brow, and pains in all the muscles of the body, worse at night. In December a sudden sensation that his face was divided into two, then diplopia and left-sided ptosis. Eight days later pains in the left shoulder, followed by weakness of the left upper extremity, which in a few days gave place to complete paralysis. About this time also loss of sensation in the right half of the mouth and nose, so that patient was obliged to chew on the left side, and in snuffing had no sensation in the right nostril. Soon after this the right arm became weaker, and the hand on that side numb. Towards new year weakness in legs to so marked an extent that patient could no longer go without support. Further, he noted complete loss of the sweat secretion on the left side of the face, and distinct diminution of it over the Avhole left half of the body. Bladder and rectum intact. Intellectual and mental condition normal. On his admission into the hospital he was very emaciated. Skin loose and muscles extremely flabby, and everywhere wasted to about the same extent. Upper eyelid drooping, left eyeball almost quite immovable, only slight rotation outwards and doAvn- wards still possible. In right eyeball external rectus completely paralysed. Left haK of the forehead smooth, left naso-labial fold partly obliterated, mouth drawn a little to the right, tongue protruded towards the left. Symptoms in the muscles of tlie trunk are very striking. The left half of the thorax is quite immovable in respiration, the upper intercostal spaces exposed in consequence of the atrophy of the pectorals, and deeply retracted. Muscles in the left side of the abdomen also paralysed completely in the upper half, incompletely below. Patient unable to raise himself from the recumbent jiositiou. Over the lower intercostal