ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 22o XTseful. The spine is not tender to touch, though this has Ixmiii the case only for a year past; before that it was '•sore" on touching. In the legs the muscles are strong and the movements normal. The lower margin of the costal framework is pushed ii little forwards on the left side. The Avhole left half of tlio thorax- is immovable both in ordinary and deep breathing, in coughiiio- the left lower thoracic and left upper abdominal regions are strong! y pushed forward. Abdominal and thoracic muscles in loft side, also muscles of arm, especially ujiper arm, on the same side are thin. Left deltoid moderately atrophied, and shoulder joint almost completely anchylosed. On this account arm can only be raised to the horizontal position, and its muscles and those of the hand are less capable of work than those on the right side. Facial mobility on the left side is again quite normal, and the play of features very lively. Paralysis of the left third still persists in part, the movements of the eyeball upwards and downwards being very limited, inwards rather better. The ptosis is gone. Function of the right external rectus almost normal. The left pupil is rather smaller than the right; both react sluggishly. Patient wears a dimmed glass in front of his left eye, as tlie double images standing on different levels arc a source of great annoyance. When his spectacles are taken off these images are at first scarcely noticeable, but gradually they separate, the separation being produced by the image for the left eye moving upwards and to the left. Apart, however, from the effect of the double vision, patient walks unsteadily, easily stumbles on the level ground, and has to be very cautious, especially in moving round. After over- exertion in walking or stair climbing he easily gets cramps in the muscles of the thighs and calves, very markedly in tlic peroneal muscles, also in the quadratus lumborum and abdominal muscles. These cramps are sometimes more on the one side, sometimes on the other. Up to two years ago walking for any length of time brought on sudden attacks of diarrhoea, or even involuntary motions of the bowels, and under the same circumstances sudden desire to pass water with involuntary action of the bladder if the desire could not be given effect to. Also passed water during sleep. During the last year or two these vesical and rectal troubles have ceased. Some ataxia; standing with the eyes shut produces unsteadiness ; knee- .lerks quite gone; sensibility over the left foot nearly normal, tactile distance in the toes being 12 millimetres. Complete auiBsthesia in the left thumb. Cutaneous sensibility in the left arm and left side of the abdomen and thorax still markedly deficient. Over the front of the left thigh distinct anesthesia. Over the left side of the face, where at first there was complete anesthesia, sensibility is now quite normal, but the secretion of sweat is not restored. Sexual functions, which at first were retained, have completely disappeared for almost seven years. Urine normal in quantity and free from albumen and sugar; can