I TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. o51 in the cicatricial tissue tliat soinetimes forms in cases of transverse myelitis after resorption of the liquefied medullary substance.* In a case of fracture of the spine, where the cord had been crushed in the middle of the dorsal portion, Gowers^^ found at the cervical level, besides the ordinary ascending degeneration, a number of very minute nerve fibres, each consisting of a fine axis-cylinder surrounded by myelin. The fibres were smaller than any met with in the normal cord; the appearance was, says Gowers, as if from the lower extremity of the normal fibres there had occurred a growth of new fibres, such as affects the regeneration of peripheral nerves. And Benedict^^ saw in a teased-out preparation from a case of locomotor ataxia delicate threads (newly-formed axis-cylinders ?) passing out from a mass of degenerated nerve fibres. Our knowledge of the behaviour of the ganglionic cells is still more fragmentary. Nothing is known in the human subject of a new formation of nerve cells in the cord out of the remains of broken-down structures of a similar kind, or out of any other kind of material. And our present information leads us to believe that any regeneration of this kind is improbable. If it could happen at all it would be preferably in the first years of life. Observations have been repeatedly made in cases that have suffered in early life from infantile paralysis and have completely recovered—cases, therefore, where from the clinical appearances we should expect to find the restitutio ad integrum of the diseased tissue, and along with it of the diseased ganglionic cells, complete. But in these post-mortem obser- vations there still remained something of the disease recovered from, and the ganglionic cells in circumscribed portions of the anterior horns are found to have completely disappeared. How far morbid changes in the nerve cells can go, and yet keep possible the restitutio ad integrum, or at least the recovery of function, we do not know. It is, however, a fact of grent importance that, like the fibres, the cells may suffer considerable * Charcot'" records a case of this kind. There had been compression-myelitis from Potts' disease, and complete recovery from the paraplegia had taken place. The cord at the seat of compression was about the thickness of a goose-quill and apparently sclerosed. There were, however, a considerable number of nerve- fibres, with axis-cylinders surrounded with myelin. Charcot leaves it undeter- mined whether there was a reproduction of all the constituents of the fibre, or whether there was merely a medullary sheath around a naked axis-cylinder Compare Michaud's case quoted in Leyden's Klinik, p. 134.