BILLROTH ON THIC MLTUAL ACTION OF 14 with in suppurating cavities, and very probably is identical with the Erysipelas coccus, &c. In short, there is a special form of coccus for every hind of inflammation, which again may become more or less dangerous in proportion to its vegetative energy. The whole of our antiseptic art consists in the successful exclusion from wounds of these ubiquitous microbes, which not only vege- tate within, but also outside the animal organisms (and are at the same time both saprophytic and pathogenic). If we succeed in that, there will be no suppuration even in the most extensive losses of substance; there will only be regenerative processes, which are entirely independent of microbes. And here we meet with the most remarkable phenomenon of immunity or resistance of certain kinds of animals against these microbes. The pus-cocci Vegetate in no animal so well as in man; in the dog, e.g., only with extreme difficulty. Indeed, every new experience in this field raises new problems. At any rate, these experiences on the most eclectic peculiarity of the action of vegetable cells on the tissues of different kinds of animals is in the highest degree remarkable and interesting, and continually recalls to us new mysteries of the cell life in the face of which our chemical know- ledge fails. It seems in some cases as if animal cells would directly be poisoned by the secretion accompanying the growth of the vegetable cells. In other cases, e.g., in the blennorrhoeic process, the connection of the capillary walls appears to become loosened so that the leucocytes more easily find egress. Or are these perhaps even attracted by the Blennorrhceal coccus through the capillary walls ? Other kinds of coccus again loosen the capillary walls in such a manner that they permit the more easy escape especially of the red blood corpuscles, that perhaps they more readily tear, in short that they invest the morbid processes with a hgemorrhagic character. Other kinds of Microbe cause coagulation of the fluids on the surface of the tissues, others within the interstices of the tissues, others again render the coagulated blood of the thromboses in the vessels mucoid, or soften it into puriform pulp, whilst others again convert the connective tissue into a soft gelatinous state (a kind of pep- tonisation), which may take its course with or without profuse extravasation of leucocytes. There consequently exist specific forms of cocci, or at least different degrees of their vegetative