IIOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. l9l For while the use of sugnr and other carbo-hydrates can at once be stopped as soon as the diagnosis of the disease is confirmed, bread must only gradually be withdrawn. Even the most in- telligent and strong-minded patients will declare they cannot go on without bread, and consequently often become refractory towards other prescribed measures. Every fortnight the amount of bread taken in 2-i hours may be lessened by 50 grms. (about 1£ oz.). If the patient was accustomed to consume daily 300 grms. (about lOi oz.), in the course of two months it will have dropped to 100 grms. per diem (about 3^ oz.). If the amount of sugar in the urine is found to have decreased during this period to 1 per cent, or below, then the 100 grms. (circa 3^ oz.) may be continued for some time; but, with an increase of sugar the supply of bread must be still further reduced to a roll per diem, weighing 30 to 40 grms. (from 1 oz. to 1| oz.), or, if necessary, bread must be forbidden altogether. By this gradual method the patient does not feel the loss so much. If the sugar diminishes in consequence of this line of treatment until traces only can be recognised, some months should be allowed to elapse before bread is resumed in the diet. It must then be given tentatively and with great caution. After a few grams of bread the urine should be examined two hours later, in the following days it may be slowly increased by a few grams until the limit of toleration for amylaceous food is reached. What holds good in the case of bread is equally true of other carbo-hydrates i.e., those kinds of vegetables and fruits which we shall mention more succinctly later on. An examination of the urine after eating any of these is in fact the best indication of the amount of carbo-hydrates the patient may safely partake of without materially increasing the quantity of sugar excreted. Instead of ordinary bread several substitutes have been proposed, either by freeing the flour from starch through washing (gluten bread), or by adding so much bran to the flour that the percentage of starch is greatly diminished (bran bread). An artificial bread may be prepared from lichenin (Icelandic moss) and its congener inulin, which have no influence on the excre- tion of sugar. Lastly, there is almond bread, made with almond meal, eggs, and fat, which is almost destitute of starch. The so- called Graham bread appears to be confused with bran bread, and is regarded as a bread substitute. It is, however, nothing