226 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. individual observers are very great and at present inexplicable. Erb, whom we may certainly call a cautious and trustworthy investigator, basing his statements on the carefully recorded histories of 100 cases, gives 91 per cent, of them as preceded by chancre and syphilis, secondary syphilis having certainly occurred in 61 per cent., and chancre, without proof of constitu- tional syphilis in 20 per cent. Only 9 of the 100 cases had no specific history. Alongside these numbers Erb places those giving the occurrence of chancre and syphilis in 1,200 indi- vidual with no tabes. 10-25 per cent, of them had had syphilis and 12-5 chancre alone. Fournier also gives the percentage in ataxies as 91, Althaus as 86-5, Voigt as 81, Bernhardt and Eisenlohr each as 60, Rumpf as 70. In all these numbers syphilis and chancre are reckoned together. My own observa- tions in hospital and private practice since I have paid precise attention to this point in each individual case give 71 per cent, of syphilis and chancre combined as preceding the ataxia. On . the other hand no doubt there are many authors who only make out from 30 to 40 per cent. At the very least we can certainly say, what even the opponents of Fournier's and Erb's theory must grant, that there is a causal relationship between syphdis and tabes. Whether the former is the direct or only the pre- disposing and auxiliary cause of the latter must, as in the case of general paralysis, remain for the present undetermined. The anatomical changes in sclerosis of the posterior columns so far as they are yet known give no handle for any estimate of the causal relationship, nor do the effects of specific treatment. The result of the use of both mercury and iodide of potash ni ataxia is in general very unsatisfactory, though cases of un- doubted improvement and even recovery have been related by such competent observers as Erb, Berger, and Eampf. It must be borne in mind, however, that most cases of locomotor ataxia come under treatment at a relatively late period, and that while they certainly as a rule not only do not improve but even get worse with iodide of potash and mercury it is possible that good results might have been obtained in the initial stages. But any estimate of the results of treatment in tabes is ren- dered uncommonly diflicult on account of the spontaneous im- provements or pauses as regards both the general progress of the disease and the individual symptoms which occur under any