69 AND ITS TREATiMENT. bility as though the legs were not felt at all, as of walking on air, as though the ground yielded to the tread, &c., &c. Motor disturhcmees are either absent, or present to a sub- ordinate extent only. A tendency to spasm of the muscles of the calf, of the sole of the foot, of the lower jaw—for example, in the act of yawning—of the intercostal muscles on suddenly turning in bed, of the abdominal muscles in coughing or sneezing, frequently exists. Paralyses are not present; on the contrary, the muscular system is usually capable of high functional activity, and the patients who feel tired and depressed in the house can take walks for hours together without fatigue. Of the internal organs those most frequently implicated are the heart, the stomach, and the genital apjxcratus. The heart usually displays the most varying conditions of innervation, especially distinct hyper excitability. On the slightest excitement, and even without any at all, well-marked tachycardia comes on, combined with a series of extremely un- pleasant sensations, including not merely the perception of the heart's beat but actual pain, especially in the vicinity- of the apex, together with a terrifying irregularity, with the strangest sensa- tions both during and after the pause ; with feelings of stoppage of the heart's action, of pushing, of jumping, of twisting of the heart on its own axis, of its leaping up to the throat, &c., &c. These fits of tachycardia are generally accompanied by vertigo, as well as nausea, sudden exhaustion of strength, and feeling of annihilation. For many such patients when they come to the doctor the diagnosis of organic disease of the heart has been for long a matter of certainty, and they are quite unpleasantly surprised to hear that the physical examination reveals no cardiac abnor- mality. All things considered, cardiac neurasthenia is one of the worst forms, because the patient never gets rid of his uneasiness and anxiety. The mere terror that the palpitation, with its atten- dant nameless discomforts, might come on, suffices to drive the excitable heart at double its normal pulse-rate. The sudden effect of psychical influences on the heart's frequency and rhythm are quite characteristic. A pleasant visit, a piece of good news, a short trip to the country, often stills the most obstinate palpitation. I once treated a neurasthenic man of letters, who after several months' torture from irregularity of the heart, was cured in a few hours by a railway journey through