318 STRljMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. symptoms limited, or all but limited, to the part of the body- injured. In these cases, also, we must make the distinction between those in which there is actual organic injury to the peripheral nerves and those which we should call, as before, pure neuroses. It is often very easy to draw this distinction, but sometimes we meet with difficulties. I should particularly like here to say that I suspect that after contusions of small peripheral nerve- twigs minute neuromata develop, which are not perceptible to the touch, but which give rise to acute pains, reflex muscular spasms, and other symptoms. Of course these pains and spasms could also originate from such a lesion as circumscribed thicken- ings of the neurilemma. I have repeatedly seen such symptoms, and others like them, especially after bruises of the fingers, proving extremely obstinate, and resisting treatment for a long time. But, as I have indicated, we cannot reckon this class of cases among the traumatic neuroses proper, seeing that coarse changes in the peripheral nerves are the causes of the symptoms; I shall not dwell upon them, therefore, any further. Other cases that must be set aside are those which Charcot has done a good deal to make known, where after an apparently trifling injury to a joint, considerable atrophy makes its appear- ance in the muscles in the neighbourhood. Charcot believes this may be explained as the result of a reflex inhibition of the activity of the trophic cells in the anterior horns of the cord, an explanation which, to my mind, * can hardly be looked upon as satisfactory. Genuine examples of the local form are those conditions where complicated nervous symptoms follow injuries, which for the most part have been of no great importance, in such a way as to exclude the presence of a lesion of any particular peripheral nerve. These are, to begin with, as we have said, mostly cases of simple contusion in one of the extremities, or of a blow, or fall, or some such hurt. There is usually no general concussion of the brain or spinal cord, but naturally enough there is often a good deal of fright, especially in the case of nervous persons or children. In children the condition is of relatively common occurrence. The pain and difiiculty of movement experienced immediately after the accident are, of course, almost always * Cf. Miinchener Medicinische Wochensclirift, 1S88, No. 13.