154 HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. alimentaris, D. intoxicativus, &c. But it soon appeared that ail tliese forms of sugar excretion, whether artificially produced or connected with other pathological conditions, have nothing what- ever to do with Diabetes proper—a disease sui generis—and differ from it essentially in three important points. I. They are merely transient, they disappear after the cessation of the disease that produced them, or shortly after the healing of the injury that caused them. II. They are quite independent of the nature of the food administered. III. They cause none of that profound disturbance of the general health which as a rule accompanies true Diabetes. In order to distinguish these forms of sugar excretion from Diabetes mellitus, the name Glycosuria is now generally ap- plied to them. Under Diabetes mellitus (sugar-flux),or Diabetes gravis, we understand therefore only that slowly developing afebrile chronic disease in which grape sugar, varying in quantity with the amount of carbo-hydrates ingested, is constantly present in the urine, and in which the general health suffers very seriously from the nutritive disturbances in the various organs of the body. Although my object is only to deal with this disease, and ignore all other forms of Glycosuria, I must mention two forms of sugar excretion experimentally produced. These have recently been discovered, are in many respects of great interest, and possibly destined to throw a ray of light into the obscure pathology of the disease. The first form was com- municated by Mering of Strassburg, thi-ee years ago. Mering gave a dog after seven days' fasting, whose body consisted simply of albumen and fat, and was therefore free from carbo-hydrates, a daily dose of 20 grams (about 300 grs.) of Phloridzin, a glucoside contained in the cortex of the root of the apple-tree. As a result a large amount of sugar, from 10 to 19 per cent., was excreted. This form of glycosuria differs from other artificially produced forms, as also from Diabetes verus, in that the normal quantity of sugar in the blood is diminished. But as the con- tinuous administration of Phloridzin does not produce a perma- nent excretion of sugar, it must be regarded as a form of glycosuria rather than diabetes. However, this experiment would seem to prove the assertion of later investigators (notably