STIiiiMrELL ox TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 314 ■suffered in the service of other people ? Then come the nego- tiations and examinations in connection with accident insm'ance. One requires to have seen for one's self how these people have been put off time after time, and how repeated examinations have to be made and new certificates drawn out. It is then possible to understand the hurtful influence which all this period of doubt and hope and fear, of disappointment and mistrust must exercise. It is not to be wondered at if, in order to establish their just claims, they sometimes attempt to embellish and magnify the story of their sufferings. In this way the depression and lack of energy and irritability with which they are affected, to begin with, and which all through are characteristic of the condition, are but strengthened and confirmed. The great attention they pay to all their sensations is sufficient to develop a variety of morbid feelings which in their excited condition take a very vivid form. On the other hand, their mental state reacts on a number of their bodily func- tions. "We thus have headaches, palpitation, indigestion, profuse sweating, or great coldness of the skin, tremors, &c.—all familiar symptoms in conditions of great mental excitement. Uncon- scious attention also interferes with the normal motor innervation. Not from design, bu.t from the action of "unconscious will," if one may so phrase it, the movements lose their natural simplicity and ease, and become stiff, trembling, and awkward. But though I rate very highly all these purely mental factors in accounting for the origin of traumatic neuroses, they will not explain directly the whole body of the phenomena. Even the clinical differences which mark them off" from ordinary hypochon- driasis and neurasthenia suggest the question whether the purely material shock has not a certain importance for the production of the symptoms. It is generally acknowledged that a sudden violent shock to the nervous system., especially to the brain, even though no coarse anatomical lesions are produced, may be the cause of very serious nervous disturbances. It scarcely admits of doubt that these disturbances, such as unconsciousness, slowing of the pulse and respiration, &c., have an organic cause of some kind or another, although of the finer changes in concussion of the brain, as it is called, we know as good as nothing. And it is quite conceivable that the morbid changes produced by sudden violent concussion in the brain, and probably also in the spinal