VAEIOUS SOCIAL INFLUENCES. 97 of 1,820 feet tliere were very few. Mareau and Miguel also found them nearly altogether absent in the air on the surface of the ocean, and at certain spots on the sea-coast. These results of bacteriological research are, it will be seen, in complete har- mony with the physician's experience. No doubt the relative immunity from infection, which we know is enjoyed by residence at high altitudes or on the sea-coast, is assisted by the other aerial agencies at work in such places, the air-pressure, the force of the winds, the amount of contained moisture, and to a certain extent also the energetic pulmonary movements, which are favoured by the co-existence of all these factors. We shall return to this point when we deal with the treatment of tuberculosis, and go back now to the sources in social life of the tubercular infection. We have spoken of prisons and badly- constructed barracks as such sources. In a similar way tuber- culosis may take origin in convents, educational boarding establishments, orphanages, and to some degree in over-crowded day-schools. This happens just in so far as there is insufficient enjoyment of fresh air as a compensation for residence in the infected atmosphere, the insufficiency arising either from the want of proper hygienic arrangements in the buildings them- selves, or in the ordering of the daily life of the inhabitants. Convents are the most defective in this respect, and come next after the prisons, the majority of their inhabitants falling victims to tubercle. The life in small badly-ventilated cells, the want of the open air, and the complete absence of bodily exercise and all movements calculated to increase the depth of the inspiration, are the principal factors in bringing about the disease. The same holds good of orphanages and boarding-schools, in which the pupils are brought up in - a monastic seclusion, and partake only to a very limited extent in the benefits of moving about and playing outside the buildings. That the numbers indicating disease in these places are not higher is due partly to the fact that the confinement is not too strictly kept up, but chiefly to the circumstance that the young people do not remain very long in the institutions. Most persons withstand the bad effects of confinement even in prisons for months and years with- out suffering visibly, and only when the deterioration of the constitution has reached a certain point do the tubercle bacilli begin their destructive work. Statistics of disease in prisons H