ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS 0I-' THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 2Vj collateral circulation. Putting aside the inferior and superior cerebellar arteries, the branches to the pons are particularly important. These go off from the basilar at a right angle to supply the pons and upper part of the medulla. Cases in which blocking of some of these branches has led to insular softening in the areas supplied have been repeatedly observed. There are, in particular, the cases in which the well-known pontine symptoms occur—difficulties in swallowing, in respiration, and in articula- tion, disturbances of the heart's action, and of the regulation ot heat, polyuria, and alternate paralysis in the great motor paths. The whole complex of symptoms may appear at once, or they may follow one another, in either case without intellectual or mental disturbance. The cases of this kind hitherto known have had a somewhat chronic course, and most of them a fatal termina- tion ; while a few, with timely antisyphilitic treatment, have for the most part incompletely recovered. I may here put along with these cases one of my own. In this the symptoms developed themselves rather acutely with the features of pseudo-bulbar paralysis, and within a few days reached a height that threatened life. Treatment with iodide of potash produced speedy and almost complete recovery. A journeyman locksmifch, 29 years of age, acquired a hard sore in his 21st year during his military service. For this he had specific treatment for 14 days in hospital. He was again under treatment six months later for a skin eruption on the back. On the 15th May, 1887, eight years after the infection, he was seized with violent headaches, becoming worse at night. In the after- noon of the 17th May, sudden extreme faintness and violent ringing in the head. In the evening giddiness, diplopia, paresis of the right side of the body with numbness. In the course of the following day paresis of the right side increased, and in the evening complete paralysis. Then paresthesia? in the right side of the face, and difficulty in speaking; 24 hours after the latter began what he said could hardly be made out. No disturbance of consciousness. Admitted on the 20th May. On that day circula- tion hurried, respiration laboured, sensorium quite free. Right side of face paretic in lower half. Left eyeball imperfectly movable in any direction, rectus externus muscle completely paralysed, left pupil extremely contracted with hardly any reaction to light. Tongue moved with difficulty, trembling some- what when pushed out; speech very difficult and scarcely intelligible; pursing of the mouth for whistling impossible; taste, smell, and hearing normal; arch of the palate paretic on left side,