218 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. in from 25 to 50 per cent, of the cases of general paralysis, M'liile in other forms of mental disorder it plays a much smaller part. From these materials the conclusion may certainly be drawn that general paralysis of .the insane is very much more common in those who have had syphilis than in those who have not. An attempt has lately been made to explain the connection by the hypothesis that the form of cerebral lesion depending on syphilis is not general paralysis but an affection resembling paralysis. Fournier, who was the first to express this view, has named the form pseudo-paralysis of syphilitic origin, and gives a number of differential symptoms by which such pseudo-paralysis according to him may be distinguished from genuine dementia paralytica. He notes specially the absence of the delusions of grandeur in the syphilitic pseudo-paralysis. While the majority of the French writers have supported Fournier, most of the Germans have protested against the separation of the two forms as artificial, llumpf, in particular, has lately emphatically asserted that the delusions of grandeur are not absent even in the syphilitic form, so that the differential feature on which Fournier relies most would fall away. In this way, then, general paralysis is distinguished essentially from all other mental disorders, that it is much commoner among those who have had syphilis than among those who have not. Now, the connection may be directly causal, or the syphilis may act in this case as alcoholic and venereal excesses do, as a predisposing influence, lowering the constitution and weakening especially the central nervous system. Which of these two suppositions is the right one we cannot at present decide. As to the efiect of anti-syphilitic treatment on general paralysis, it appears to have pretty nearly no effect at all. This has been adduced by many as a proof against the dependence of the paralysis on syphilis ; but it really proves very little. The estimate of the results of treatment has to contend in this case with the same difiiculties as in the case of tabes. In the beginning of the disease, when perhaps anti-syphilitic remedies may do good, the diagnosis is not certain; in the later stages, >dien the diagnosis is reached, these remedies have either no effect at all, or, at the most, we have the disease coming to a standstill, a result which pretty often occurs in paralysis with