225 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. under review syphilis of the vertebras themselves seems to be the rarest. Our knowledge of syphilis of the substance of the spinal cord is little more than in its first beginnings. In the few cases that have been accurately examined histologically we have the arteritis with the thickening of the vessel wall going on to obliteration, the multiplication of nuclei in the adventitia, and the cellular infiltration in the perivascular lymph-spaces. Professor Bol-■ linger recently demonstrated to as some very instructive pre- parations showing these vascular changes from a case that had died of somewhat acute cerebro-spinal syphilis. But such changes appear to be by no means so common in the cord as in the brain; and the discovery and proper estimate of them during life is certainly often attended with great difii- culties. For the diflPerential diagnosis Eumpf lays most stress on this, that syphilitic myelitis has no tendency to produce puru- lent breaking down or softening, as is the case with transverse myelitis, and that accordingly the clinical features of syphilis of the cord correspond more to those of a tumour than to those of a transverse myelitis. We have chiefly the symptoms of such irritation as attends only partial destruction of the conducting power of the cord, excentric neuralgias, spastic- phenomena, cramps, along with some degree of paralysis. But in each indi- vidual case we must have present other late forms of syphilis, or evidence that there have been such formerly, before the syphilitic nature of the myelitis is regarded as proven. Of surpassing importance appears to be the part which syphilis plays among the causes of locomotor ataxia. Fournier in 1876 was the first to express the opinion that locomotor ataxia in the majority of cases was due to syphilis. After him Berger and Erb in Germany lent substantial support to the view by the results of their extensive inquiries. Erb especially, in a series of publications, has exhibited the causal relationship between syphilis and locomotor ataxia as statistically proved. The state- ments of these authorities have been confirmed by the experience of a number of trustworthy observers, as Gowers, Benedikt, Erlenmeyer, Reumont, Yoigt, and Rumpf. The other side of opinion IS represented by Westphal, Leyden, Remak, Lancereaux, and Althaus, who have expressed themselves as for the present against the connection. The differences between the figures of Q