PEYEK ON ASTHMA AND 288 morning. With the object of combating this state, the patient used an alarum. If he set it for five in the morning, this was effectual once or twice, but afterwards seminal emission would take place at a quarter to five. If he set it still earlier, e.g., at four, his waking did anticipate matters for a few days, but subsequently seminal discharge would occur from a quarter to half an hour before. At times the alarum and the seminal emission coincided. Internal medicine, milk diet, change of air, sea bathing, abstinence from highly-seasoned dishes, from alcohol, tea and coffee, had no influence over his condition, and just as little had regular intercourse, to which he later on resorted, on medical advice, as a last resource. After leaving school, Mr. F. entered the army in order to have as much out-door exercise as possible. "When 22, at the close of the great autumn manoeuvres, which he had gone through without any great trouble, he was suddenly attacked, during the night, by asthma. He sprang out of bed, flung open the window and gasped for breath; it was not till after some hours that the dreadful state yielded; hence- forward the paroxysms happened more frequently. Several medical men noticed slight emphysema, and attributed the asthma to this condition as well as to the strain of campaigning. He consequently resigned his commission in the army, and carried out his primary intention of studying law. As Mr. F. was well-to-do, and engaged, he married soon, and then, in order to prevent children, practised coitus reservatus. His marital life had no influence on his general health, nocturnal emissions still persisted, asthmatic attacks were in fact verj- troublesome during the next six years, which he spent partly in Carlsruhe and partly in Rastatt. At the former place they were so severe that he often thought he would sufibcate. As a rule they came on during sleep and at night; if they were but slight, or if he only felt prodromata, burning nitrated paper or hot application always brought relief. When they were at all severe he had to be propped up in bed with five or six pillows, or was obliged to get up and sit bending over a chau\ " He had passed many such terrible nights thus, coughing, wheezing, spitting, and gasping for breath, half suffocated." Chloral alone relieved this condition ; morphine was less beneficial. He had not noticed any direct relation between sexual con-