65 AND ITS TREATMENT. Many patients become uneasy wlien they are alone, and require therefore to have always some companion. This fear of loneliness naturally leads to quite peculiar, nay to actually comic situations. Years ago I treated a young neurasthenic physician who could not attend to his country practice without bringing his old house- keeper with him. Once when he had persuaded himself to start without her, the uneasiness seized him a quarter of an hour affer leaving the town, and he drove back post haste. Other patients again live in perpetual dread of meeting with human beings, and consequently live like the hermits, and walk in the open with bowed heads, turning away the face on the approach of a man. Others are afraid of anything and everything which might affect them or make any sort of demand on them, anything which might require a resolution or bring with it responsibility. Others are afraid of lightning, of earthquakes, of an accident which might befall absent relations, of dust or defilement either in general or caused by quite special materials. These varieties of monomania, which stand close to the boundary of the psychoses, are frequently observed as the sole morbid phenomenon in other- wise healthy individuals. I knew a lady who went about her Jiouse almost the entire day to wipe away the dust, and used to wash her hands countless times. Another, the wife of a landed proprietor, also suffered from exaggerated love of cleanliness, and had a particular horror of cart-wheel tar; she used always to examine personally for tar stains the outside garments of her relatives and friends who came on visits to her estate ; numerous quarrels between herself and her relatives were thus occasioned. The dread of disease, especially of contagious disease, is highly developed in many persons. It is related to hypochondriasis, which deduces the presence of definite diseases from symptoms chiefly subjective and for the most part intangible, watches every function of the body with the utmost attention, and strives to attain certainty of diagnosis by reading medical books and constantly interrogating doctors. Later authors assign to hypochondriasis a place among the symptoms of neurasthenia, and Arndt goes so far as to call it a cardinal symptom. I leave it an open question whether there is any use in con- ferring special names on all these individual conditions of fear and uneasiness, as has been done by the partisans of a rigorous F