380 LoWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE the multit-ade of spinal cases that had, up to that time, been without a remedy. But a short time seemed to elapse, and the treatment of organic disease of the cord passed wholly over into the hands of the surgeon. Yet our expectations, as we know now from an abundant experience, were bitterly disappointed. Of the huge number of cases operated on, not one was cured. It cannot be denied that a certain number improved, and in respect of some of the symptoms improved considerably, but in many of these cases the ground that had been gained was once more lost. And in a far larger number the operation had either a negative result or was followed by more or less distinct deterioration in the condition of the patient. Lastly, there were not a few cases in which the operation caused death, either through something going wrong with the ^^^ound, or through lesion of the spinal cord. From these facts it will be sufficiently understood that nerve- stretching as a remedy for chronic disease of the cord has latterly been generally rejected. In a small number of instances the so-called " bloodless " nerve-stretching has been tried. But again experience teaches that, even in the most favourable case, we can expect from this nothing but some improvement in individual symptoms. And it is by no means so certain, it appears to me, that it is so devoid of danger as some represent —we must remember that the other operation to begin with was represented as quite a harmless proceeding. I believe, however, that a warning is here scarcely necessary: I rather suspect that both kinds of nerve-stretching—it may be without sufficient ground—are, in the treatment of diseases of the cord, among the things we have done with.* Two other stretching methods have been suggested. The stretching of the spinal cord was proposed by A. Hegar,"' of Freiburg, as a substitute for nerve-stretching. The occasion was the observation by this well-known gynecologist—though it had been frequently observed before—that certain disorders which he thought originated in the lumbar cord, but which are frequently associated with sexual troubles, are produced by TTiarked bending of the spine forwards. To the observation * Benedict"" is the only physician of any importance who has latterly continued to express himself in its favour as a remedy for tabes It looks as if in this matter Benedict would remain the voice of one crying in the wilderness.