193 IIOFAIEISTER OX DIABETES MELLITL'S. foremost. Milk contains all the elements of nutrition in the most compact and digestible form, wliich not only maintain the nitrogenous equilibrium of the body, but even considerably increase its weight, as is seen in the rapid growtli of the suckling infant. To deprive diabetics entirely of so admirable a form of nutriment on account of lactose, as Cantani and others recom- mend, seems to me going too far. The amount should be limited to an average 120 grms. (about 4 fl. oz.) per diem, which will do the patient more good than harm. The following milk products are quite permissible: cream, butter, sour milk in which lactose has been converted into lactic acid, curds, and cheese, as well as koumiss and kefir. On the other hand, buttermilk and Avhey are not allowable. Tea and coffee may be taken as usual, with or without vuilk, and saccharin according to taste. The taste of unsweetened black coffee may be improved, according to some, by adding the yolk or the well-whisked white of an egg. Cocoa prepared from the nibs is harmless, but chocolate manufactured from the bean should be forbidden in toto. Lemonade unsweetened, or sweetened with saccharin, should only be taken in moderation and not allowed to touch the teeth, as these tend to decay in any case. Almond-milk and the various aerated, soda and mineral, waters may be used without restriction. The case is different with alcohol. The more or less pure forms of spirit, e.g., cognac, rum, corn-spirit, slibowitz, whisky, brandy, &c., are considered by all to be harm- ful to diabetics, even when the quantity of sugar excreted is not thereby increased. The general condition of the patient decidedly deteriorates, and even the feeling of languor and loss of strength is not removed, by the administration of alcohol. With reference to wine opinions differ. Of course all wines artificially sweetened, French and other champagnes, Malaga, Tokay, Eust, &c., as well as those partially fermented and the sweetish fruit wines, should be rigorously excluded from the dietary. Whereas some writers have noticed no injurious effect even after excessive wine-drinking, others have remarked just the contrary. This is after all not surprising, for, like the whole question of diet, it is solely a matter of individual idiosyncrasy. It is evident that if wine be allowed in moderation, in most cases it should be given tentatively at first, and those should bo 0