ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. 92 position to estimate tlie extent of this danger from the food. It is possible, no doubt, that the dread of milk-infection has gone too far, but the frequency of mesenteric disease in children always throws us back on the food as the origin of the mischief. And seeing that the infective influence of the milk of tubercular cattle upon other animals has been pointed out, and that no objection can lie against the validity of the application of those observations to human beings, it is the medical attendant's busi- ness to point out to his patients the great dangers to which they are exposed. There are many other ways of extrauterine infection which can simulate hereditary transmission, and the close intercourse among the members of a family offers abundant possibilities for the exercise of a harmful influence where the parents are tuberculous. Furthermore, if the furniture, the utensils, or the food, are con- taminated with sputa containing bacilli, the predisposed children will the more easily be infected, the smaller the dwelling, the larger the family, and the less are decency and cleanliness considered. But obvious as all these channels of infection may appear from the theoretical point of view, yet practically their influence is of no great importance. Such is the testimony of the results of collective investigation and of the practitioner's daily experience. The transmission of tubercle from diseased persons to others living with them, more especially to husband, or wife, or servants, is so extremely uncommon that the direct infectiveness of the disease from man to man can hardly be so powerful as now and then on d priori grounds has been assumed. We must still look to the heredity theory for the explanation of its veiy common occurrence in the offspring of tubercular parents, and the solution of the many difficulties which surround the question must be sought in the further development of our science. One special stumbling-block is the long period during which tuberculosis is latent in childhood. Were it the case in con- genital tuberculosis, as in syphilis or small-pox, that the foetus brought with it into the world the symptoms of the disease, the question were easy to decide. But tubercle in the new-born is not plain to the light of day; it behaves somewhat like those rare cases of sypldUs congenUa tarda, where the sjnnptoms do not appear till the second decennium of life, and in which the question whether we have actually to do with congenital or extra-