194 II0FR1EI3TER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. preferred which, contain least alcohol and sugar. Therefore genuine Bordeaux and Austrian mountain-wines are more suitable than Port and Burgundy. Hungarian and Rhenish wines are generally somewhat sweeter, containing more than 1 per cent, sugar. Beer, which besides alcohol and sugar contains dextrin, should not be taken at all as long as sugar is being excreted. Should traces only be present, the patient may take now and then a glass of well-brewed beer (preferably Pilsen) and not too rich in malt. As for taking beer regularly, he must not entertain the idea for a moment. Thirst is quenched mosi' satisfactorily by pure spring or well water, and with pieces of ice should polydipsia be distressing. Spices of every descrip- tion (pepper, chillis, ginger, cinnamon, vanilla, and curryj should be cut down to a minimum. Salt, less harmful than any, should, however, be taken sparingly, as it increases thirst, which at all times is difficult to allay. If we cut off in this manner the supply of carbo-hvdrates, the chief nutriment of the diabetic will consist of meat, eggs, and fats. Meat, moreover, is not quite free from carbo-hydrates; it contains small quantities ot dextrin, maltose, and grape sugar, the influence of which is, how- ever, completely counteracted in the body. The various kinds ot meat of all mammals, birds, fish, amphibia, reptilia, and shellfasb- turtle, crabs, lobsters, frog's legs, oysters, snails &c.-may be taken, as well as the various organs used as food, bram, lungs, pancreas (sweetbread), kidneys, and spleen, except the iver. which contains sugar in the normal state. There is also no objection to the use of the various meat salts and extractives in the form of soups, broths, beef-tea, Liebig's extract of meat, and Leube-Rosenthal's solution of meat. It may seem superfluous to mention that in the preparation of various dishes the customary addition of flour must be strictly avoided, still there are many persons ignorant enough in culinary matters who have no idea Lt dressed meat (baked fowl, baked fish, the so-called^ lennese cutlets), as well as most vegetables, thick sauces,* -"P^^^^^^^^^ prepared with flour, and are frequently partaken of m blissful iZance, especially in hotels and abroad. Hence the physician should mike it a x^le not to place implicit confidence m he assurances of his patient that he is dieting himself very stnctl> but should always obtain from him what and how much he eats and * Both these may be made tasty with yolk of egg and cream.