BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 30 considered as formative stimuli. "While it is generally ad- mitted that the leucocytes, much as they have been experi- mented with and discussed, are not able to produce granulation and connective tissue, we must suppose that the granulation tissue with its vessels can only be the product of fixed tissue elements, though direct observations in this respect have not come to my knowledge. Granulation tissue surely is always the result of formative stimulus, and genuine tissue formations always proceed only from fixed tissue elements. I am inclined to maintain, a -priori, that the principal elements of granulation tissue are the product of the cells of the vascular walls. The older surgeons employed a number of remedies in order to further the formation of granulations. Warmth and moisture in the form of poultices and continuous warm local baths, turpentine ointment, tartar emetic ointment, nitrate of silver ointment, savin ointment, &c., enjoyed a well-founded reputation as stimu- lants for the formation of granulations. We know of jodoform, that its continuous application calls forth a particular vascular granulation, even in excess. Glycerine behaves in a similar manner, iind especially increases to the utmost the dilatation of the vessels. Solutions of carbolic acid act as a lasting formative stimulus, producing thick vascular cheloid cicatrices. Similar effects are known in the cases of cicatrices from cauterisation with sulphuric or nitric acid, of the cicatrices of burns by flame, &c. It has been proved, by similar observations, that the formative irritation therefore can likewise be increased by chemicals, as has already been shown by former observations, that it can be called forth by mechanical means. ptomaine sooner or later kills the tissue witli or without coagulation. Thereby loss of substance is brought about, a solution of continuity which by itself acts as a formative stimulus and leads to cicatrisation—to regeneration. It seems to me, however, barely theoretically feasible to regard this latter case as the only possible one, and to deny every kind of formative stimulant effect to the chemical products of growth from the staphylo- and strepto-coccus, &c., par- ticularly in consideration of the fact, that also in the majority of blennorrhoeas the vessels are not only mechanically enlarged, but also become in many ways tortuous and twisted, the latter always being the consequence of a longitudinal growth of the vessels ; and real growth cannot altogether be imagined without a numerical increase of tissue element, because the mere enlargement alone of the elements could not cause the formation of so many windings and meandermgs of the vessels in the inflamed tissue. I can only fully agree with Baumgarien, when he ''tates • " We shall now be obliged to admit an inflammatory prohferahon of the fixed tissue cells, beside the regenerative and purely hyperplastic (tumour- forming) one."