313 STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. generally met witb in ordinary neurasthenia, namely, the above- described sensory disturbances. These recall distinctly the analogous phenomena which are so common in hysteria, and have given rise to the conception of traumatic neurosis as a torm of hysteria—traumatic hysteria,—a view which is represented especially by Charcot. German neurologists, on the other hand, especially Oppenheim and Thomsen, while they recognise to the full the close relationship between traumatic neurosis and these other two diseases, have claimed for the former a position of its own. They point to the getiological factor—the distinct bodily injury—and also to certain peculiarities in the further course of traumatic neurosis as distinguishing it from hysteria, especially the fact that it is frequently incurable. It appears to me that these differences are largely disputes about words. For neurasthenia and hysteria are notions of so changeable a character that we are unable to set up definite and generally accepted criteria for the precise recognition of each case of disease. Further, also, I believe that we cannot put all cases of traumatic neurosis on the same level, and that we must employ varying considerations in judging of the individual cases. In one section of the cases all the symptoms, it seems to me, are of purely psychical origin. Let us first realise closely the circumstances in which the disease originates. Undoubtedly, along with the bodily accident on each occasion there is asso- ciated violent mental emotion—"mental traumatism." And, apart from any concussion of the brain, which may confuse the consciousness for a longer or shorter time, the accident in itself is always the cause of great fright. A multitude of anxieties presses in upon the thoughts of the injured person. What is to become of me now ? Can I ever again be well and fit for work ? Who is to provide for my wife and children ? These, and thoughts like these, the more active in proportion to the sudden- ness with which they have acquired meaning, occupy the patient's attention continually. The bodily injuries which, though not severe in themselves, do generally exist, and the immediate results of the great shock to the whole system, seriously affect his capacity for doing anything, and the doubts whether it will ever be better with him are started afresh. The question arises, Who is to recompense me for these injuries, which I have