130 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. tlie most superficial layers of the Horizontal sections that the fibrillation became less distinct, and that there were relatively large, mostly fusiform cells and an extraordinary abundant, very delicate vascularisation. (2) Three sharply-edged glass splinters implanted in the left gluteal region, under the abdominal integument, and in the right axilla of a dog, lay after twelve days in a cystic capsule of connective tissue, containing serous fluid rich in albumen. After being hardened in alcohol, the innermost layer presented numerous large-celled formations of endothelioid character, and numerous vessels which with manifold ramifications reached the surface, so that the vessels sometimes seemed to lie free. At many places there were red blood-corpuscles between the endo- thelioid cells. (3) A glass splinter healed-in between the abdominal muscles of a rabbit, was enclosed after two months by a thin-walled capsule of connective tissue, containing serum, the inner surface of which was smooth and shining. (4) A glass splinter in the abdominal cavity of a rabbit, after nine days was enveloped in, and fixed to the omentum. (5) A cylindrical solid jnece of glass with rounded edges had been placed in the interstice, between the fractured ends of the left thigh-bone of a dog (from which a piece had been resected with a chain-saw). Sutures in stages; jodoform-gauze; plaster of Paris bandage. After six weeks pseudo-arthrosis m a high degree, considerable shortening of the limb, cystic spaces around the cicatrised displaced ends of the bones, which protruded into these about 1 cm. The glass cylinder lodged in a recess of this space, above the peripheric fragment. A portion of the wa 1 hardened, first in sublimed picric acid, and afterwards m alcohol, presented under the microscope thin layers of fibrillated connective tissue, with numerous connective tissue corpuscles, unequally distributed, most abundant only in certain places, e.g., especially in the recess around the foreign body on the inner surface, without, however, possessing a decidedly endothelioid character. It was remarkable that the fibrillation of the interstitial tissue between the nuclei disappeared at the surface, so that here no distinct structure could be seen. Tbe microscopical examination of the superficial cicatrix of the bone only showed fibrous tissue^ (6) A glass splinter was placed between the fractured ends ot