BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 50 on the etiology and pathogenesis of the infectious epithelioma in birds admit of no further doubt that the epithelioma-formation is brought about by the immigration of the germs of a Protozoon of the class of the Sporozoa {Gregwrinm) into the cells of the Rete Malpighii. Whilst the cells affected by the parasites are entirely consumed up to a narrow border-line and the nucleus pressed against the cell-wall, a proliferation of the still intact epithelial cells in the neighbourhood of the invaded region takes phwe, the progeny of which are then likewise successively invaded by the parasite, until the multiplication of these has ceased, and the process herewith tends towards recovery." (Baumgm'ten, vol. ii., p. 941.)* I freely confess that this apparently fully substantiated observation has greatly impressed me. As long as the formative stimulus confined itself only to the cellular elements of the con- nective tissue, I have considered the existence of a Ga/rcinoma- microhion as utterly impossible. The afore-mentioned observation, however, has rendered this more probable. There a/re, therefore, mi&rohes which act as a formative stimidus upon animal epithelial cells. This fact being accepted as proved, we of course remember many phenomena by which the carcinomas and their extension are brought into relation with other microbic diseases, especially the tubercle-formations and their propagation. Then we call to mind, first, the presence of the numerous miliary nodules in the skin as they so frequently appear after extu'pation of carcinoma of the breast. Then we think of the slowly developing super- ficial epitheliomas of the cutis which commence healing in the centre, whilst they slowly continue to luxuriate in the periphery, exactly as in Lupus, Lepra, and Psoriasis. We remember the numerous nodules in the peritoneum and in the pleura (often enough also accompanied by exudations), in which we sometimes are doubtful whether we have to deal with tubercle or with carcinoma nodules. We recollect the mode of spreading of the mammary carcinoma, which bears a resemblance to the radia- tions of erysipelas ("Erysipelas Flammen"), although they * Note by the Translator.—k kind of mysterious parasitic form of animal- culi known by the name of Gregarines, which merely consist of a homogeneons exte'mal membrane containing granules and a nucleus, which by some are con- sidered as independent animalculi, by others as intermediate stages of develop- ment of intestinal worms of the order of the Nemaioidta {Ascarides).