STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 316 tLe opposite. In severe cases, and my experience is that of others, I have only rarely seen essential improvement, and never actual recovery, and this in spite of every care and persistent electrical and hydro-therapeutic treatment. In some cases, in fact, we find the initial symptoms—more especially the indications of mental weakness—getting distinctly more marked in the course of years. This circumstance marks an essential difference from ordinary neurasthenia, in which also permanent recovery only rarely occurs, but in wliicli temporary improvement can be often attained by the proper bodily, and more especially by suitable mental, treatment. Among cases of traumatic neurosis mental treatment is often just as ineffective as in genuine melancholia. We require, then, if we would understand traumatic neurosis, to take account of botli its possible causes. These are : (1), tke psychical injury, which gives rise to the hypochondriasis, and all the nervous disturbances arising from this ; and (2), the material injury so often present from which originate the subtle organic changes in the nerve substance, and the marked functional derangements which follow. Cases of the former kind are always the less serious, and are susceptible of mental treatment. In the latter the prognosis, so far as complete recovery goes, is veiy unfavourable. Of course both kinds of causes often co-exist, and when this is the case it may be impossible to make a strict distinction between them. I must here mention another circumstance which is not without importance for the understanding of this subject. General trau- matic neurosis may be associated in its origin with actual coarse traumatic lesions of the brain or cord. I have seen some very characteristic instances of this. Along with symptoms which could only have been caused by a coarse lesion, such as circum- scribed paralysis of cranial nerves, severe vesical disturbances, &c., there were other symptoms which could have had -nothing to do with ordinary organic disease, and which perfectly agreed with those of traumatic neurosis, as I have above described it. Indeed, it is perfectly intelligible that, in certain circumstances, an injury should produce not only a coarse lesion, but also the psychical commotion or the unknown finer changes of concussion which form the basis of the general neurotic symptoms. These cases are important in a diagnostic regard, because if