PEYER ON ASTHMA AND 280 It must, however, be mentioned that on the coryza days the feet were markedly dry and hot, and gave rise to a burning sensation; otherwise the patient's feet perspired normally. The sense of smell was completely lost during an attack, but in the interval was quite normal. About a year after the commencement of the coryza, i.e., about four years ago, the above-mentioned asthmatic attacks supervened, but only in connection with certain events. Mr. F. was a heavy beer drinker. One evening, in company, he had taken his 10 to 14 glasses of beer, which he could always very easily stand, when the next day, on the slightest exertion, he suffered from difficulty of breathing, which considerably increased during the next six months. For instance, if he wanted to do a little gardening, or quicken his steps on level ground, an attack would come on, which finally reached such an intensity that he was obliged to remain bent forward, seizing hold of any fixed object to get his breath. As above stated, asthma at first only appeared at times after excessive drinking. If he avoided excess he could walk as usual and even climb a hill without any difficulty. As this affection was first manifest during the hay-harvest, his medical advisers regarded it as " hay-fever." The diagnosis really seemed to be correct, for in the next winter the attacks were much less frequent, and only occurred after heavy drinking. The following summer, however, they grew severer, and at, times were so severe that owing to difficulty in breathing the patient could scarcely walk 50 paces on level ground without having to rest. Consequently he gave up beer drinking, the immediate cause, as much as possible. His usual amount for a few years past had been two bottles a day, and as a rule he took no spirits. He also became more moderate in smoking, having previously been a very heavy smoker. He also had noticed latterly that slight excess in drinking and smoking completely knocked him up, and he suffered considerably from after-effects, as he had never done before. Furthermore, he had lately lost appetite, which was formerlj'- excellent, and instead, had a sensation of sinking and depression. He felt the need of taking food, but had no inclination for it when placed before him.