ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY, 247 ; work ; in the general wasting of many of the muscles, combined with increase in the size of others ; very notably in the localisation of the affection, in that almost invariably they are exactly the same muscles in the different cases that atrophy on the one hand, and exactly the same that become hypertrophied in the other ; in the way in which this localising takes place in the trunk, shoulder girdle, and loins, and in the proximal ends of the limbs, the distal ends remaining free for a long time ; and in the peculiar changes which are then brought about in the form and movements of the body, the attitude, and gait. They agree further in the condition of the muscles, as ascertained by percussion and palpation, in the effects of electrical stimulation, particularly in the absence of the reaction of degeneration, in the fact that there are no fibrillar twitchings, and in the gradual disappearance of tendon reflexes. Finally, in all of them the various forms of sensibility, the sphincters, the brain and organs of special sense, and all the internal organs, are quite normal. Thus in all the forms the outline of the features is the same, and yet there are certain differences which cannot be overlooked. These are as follows : Some of the cases appear to be independent of hereditary influences; sometimes the process begins in earliest childhood, sometimes in youth or at puberty, some- times even later. In some cases it makes its appearance first in the loins and lower extremities ; in others in the shoulders and upper extremities ; at times even in the face. The rules of localisation are often set aside, the muscles of the forearm and small muscles of the hand being sometimes attacked, and muscles which, as a rule, are affected, being sometimes exempt. The degree of muscular hypertrophy may vary extremely, at times being quite unnoticeable, or limited to a few muscles, at times extended over a wide area, and present in a very marked degree. Further, this hypertrophy appears in some of the cases to be a true hypertrophy, depending on actual increase in volume of the muscle substance, and in others to be false, caused by a deposit of fat or lipomatosis. Lastly, the rate at which the disease advances, and the way in which, towards the close, all the muscles of the body may be affected, are very different in the individual cases. Are those differences sufficiently great and sufficiently essential to justify us in ranging the cases under different nosological