ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NEllVOUS SYSTEM. 208 far back as 1858 I drew attention to the occurrence of this kind of basal syphilitic lepto-ineningitis. I published at that time in Virchow's Archives an observation showing how this variety comes to be of importance for the cranial nerves. The case was that of a man 33 years of u<^c, who liad ])a.sse(l through an attack of syphilis a year heforc. With violent headaches there came on diplopia, ptosis on the loft side, paresis of the right facial, paralysis of the palate, and difHculty in speaking. The examination showed complete paralysis of the left 3rd, the. right 4th, the 6th on both sides, and the i-ight facial, paresis of the right 3rd and left facial, and lastly paresis of the right upper extremity. Severe vertigo, staggering gait walking being only ])Ossible -when he was supported on either side. Death from pulmonary phthisis followed. The post-mortem showed considerable thickening of the pia at the base and constriction of the cranial nerves. With the microscope could be made out degenerative atrophy of those that had been completely paralysed, and partial degeneration of those that had been merely paretic. The olfactory, optic, trigeminal, hypoglossal, glosso-pharyngeal, and spinal nerves and the right vagus were intact. The brain substance showed nothing abnor- mal. N'o attention was paid at that time (1858) to the arteries. Griesinger published an analogous case shortly after this one. While on the whole such instances as those of syphilitic perien- cephalitis are of rare occurrence, yet there are a number of recent clinical and anatomical observations which go to confirm my own and Griesinger's statements. The diagnosis is determined apart from the history by the initial headache and the progressive paralysis of many of the cerebral nerves, especially the third ; further, by the condition of the pupils and the reaction of the paralysed nerves to electricity. The result of antisyphilitic treatment may also give considerable ■aid, but if the case is far advanced, as the preceding was, our experience hitherto has been that this may not be of much assistance. The syphiloma of the brain substance, a specific infective o-ranuloma, pursues its course, on the other hand, with the features of a circumscribed cerebral tumour. The headache, the epileptiform convulsions, the monoplegic or hemiplegic pareses ' or paralyses, with subsequent spasmodic attacks in the paralysed muscles, the cortical speech-derangements, the condition of intellectual and mental weakness, and the apoplectiform attacks