LOWENFELD ON KECENT ADVANCES IN THE 384 of going about, a moderate amount of movement out of doors is preferable on account of the benefits both of the fresh air and of the muscular exercise. The mental occupations must be looked after, and any intel- lectual strain avoided. Sexual intercourse must always be restricted, and in many cases forbidden altogether. The regulation of the bowels requires attention ; most spinal cases are inclined to constipation. This is best treated by suitable dietetic methods, and where these are not sufficient, by drugs, enemata, or massage of the abdomen. APPENDIX. Treatment of Cystitis and of Bedsore. The occurrence of cystitis or bedsores in the course of chronic disease of the spinal cord is justly regarded with great dread. Many patients suffer all the year round from these complications and their consequences, and they immensely increase the suffer- ing in a class of cases where there is generally quite enough of it already. It must therefore be one of our first objects to guard ao-ainst their occurrence, or' at any rate to put it off as long as possible. As the cause of cystitis is generally stagnation of urine in the bladder, our first business is to see to the regular and complete evacuation of the latter. Vesical weakness, accordingly, when present must be treated as early and as thoroughly as possible ; and the most effective means of doing this is undoubtedly a suitable application of electricity. If this does not succeed in removing the weakness, or if it succeeds but imperfectly, we must try mechanical means, such as pressing on the bladder, kneading the abdomen, placing the patient in the upright position, or causing him to sit on the night-stool. Should these measures fail, we must resort to regular daily catheterisation. The instrument must be disinfected as carefully as possible on each occasion of using, otherwise the cystitis which it is intended to ward off will be produced in its very worst form. If there is catarrh of the bladder internal remedies are not much to be trusted to. The most of them, such as salicylic acid, benzoic acid, boric acid, chlorate of potash, tannin, uva ursi,