81 AND ITS TREATMENT. measures. These procedures may prove very efficacious in somewhat torpid forms of neurasthenia, but on account of the necessity of careful supervision during and after the bath, they should be reserved exclusively for institution treatment. Short "fall-hatW river-laths, and still better sea-hathioig, are also very "valuable methods of treatment, and cannot be too strongly recommended. Many patients, however, have an idiosyncrasy with regard to river and sea baths, and regularly get chills and feel giddy afterwards. Such patients should not be forced to persist, but their treatment should rather be limited to frictions, &c. Medricitij is also very valuable, as well for generalised appli- cation according to Beard and Eockwell's method as for local application in localised forms of neurasthenia, especially those afiFecting the heart and the digestive tract. Beard's "general electrisation" has been specially devised for neurasthenics, and the enthusiastic recommendations with which this procedure has come to us from America have also found justification in Europe. The method consists in passing the widely expanded electrode of the positive pole over the entire body-surface, while the soles of the feet are placed upon a damped and warm metal plate, which is covered with flannel and contains the kathode. The an-electrode may suitably be shaped as a roller, so as to glide quickly over the cutaneous surface. According to Beard and Rockwell the current must be strong enough to induce powerful contractions of the superficial muscles. I would recommend this counsel to be adopted cum grcmo salis, at least in the beginning of the treat- ment. The current ought in my opinion to act only as a momen- tary stimulus to the periioheral nerves; it is then propagated centripetally to the central nervous system, and leaves behind it a feeling of general fi-eshness and invigoration, and also perhaps desire to sleep and renewed appetite. If a too intense current has been adopted the unpleasant symptoms of reaction which the above-mentioned American authors have described are sure to come on—trembling of the legs, coldness of hands and feet, pains in the muscles and in the head, general nervous excitement, &c. These symptoms of reaction may be almost certainly avoided by beginning with a weak current, not continuing the sitting for longer than five minutes, and repeating it only on every second a