LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE 382 neuralgia from the effects of weak mechanical vibrations,* and this may have induced Mortimer Granville"^ to try "nerve- vibration," and to recommend it as a special mode of treatment in some diseases of the spinal cord, especially locomotor ataxia. He obtains this vibration by means of an instrument called a " percuteur," which is set in motion by clockwork or electricity. It is quite impossible to come to any conclusion at present on the value of this method. It can excite no surprise that in our time hypnotism also has been tried. The only thing that deserves notice in this con- nection is Bernheim's^"" (Nancy) account of the results of the application of his suggestion method. In one case, which he calls " sub-acute diffuse myelitis of the anterior columns" (the diagnosis, to my mind, is not certain), he had considerable improvement under its repeated application. In several cases of ataxia he succeeded in overcoming for a time the lightning pains, gastric crises, and tenesmus of the bladder. In one of the patients the walking was for some time very much better, and the man who previously had been unable to stand upright was able to go without a stick.f In a number of cases of spastic paralysis and multiple sclerosis, he obtained a diminution, lasting for a longer or shorter time, of the exaggerated tendon reflexies and the contractures. But in all the success was merely temporary. He acknowledges himself, quite plainly, that the course of lesions like locomotor ataxia and multiple sclerosis is not to be stayed by hypnotic suggestion. From such indications we can hardly assume that hypnotism has any particular part to play in the treatment of organic disease of the cord. The temporary results which are obtained may probably be, for the most part, got at in another way. The so-called functional diseases, however, form a rich soil for this method, and it seems particularly suited for certain very troublesome symptoms, such as back-ache, seminal emissions, &c. * For example, Dr. Boudet, of Paris, lias treated neuralgia with great success by the transference of the vibrations of a tuning-fork to the painful spots in the course of the nerve. t The fact is not without interest that I have obtained a like result in several patients by applying the faradic wire brush to the outer border of the foot. There could be no question in these cases of any " suggestive " influence, as this result was quite unlooked-for, both on the part of the patient and on my own. The patients themselves drew my attention to the circumstance. Lovvenfeld, Investigations in Electrotherapeutics, p. 69.