HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 160 examined by Seegen and others, who found it contains nearly twice the normal quantity of sugar. According to the severity of the case, the condition of the patient at the time, and the hour of the examination, the amount varies from -15 to -33 per cent. (Frerichs '28 to -43 per cent.). The other organs contain ap- proximately as much, Liver, Brain, Lungs, Spleen, &c., besides lymph secretions, pathological exudations, and the cerebro-spinal fluid. Owing to its extreme diffusibility, whenever there is an excess of sugar in the blood, it makes its way into the various tissues and fluids of the body. Naturally, in connection with this fact, the question arises. Is the abnormal quantity of sugar due to an increased produc- tion, or the result of the non-consumption of the normal amount, part of which is stored up and part excreted in the urine ? This is still a matter of controversy, and will remain so as long as obscurity reigns over the cause and intimate processes of sugar formation, and over the part played by sugar in the animal economy. The fact remains that the circulating blood is only capable of harbouring normally a certain quantity, should this be exceeded, the excess is carried off by the kidneys. In grave cases of Diabetes, sugar taken as nutriment appears in^ the shortest interval in 30 minutes in the urine, and is entirely excreted within IJ to 2 hours. Passing over a number of ingeniously worked out hypotheses which have not withstood the test of time, I should like to draw attention to the views of two distinguished men upon increased sugar formation—Senator, of Berlin; and Eb- stein, of Gottingen. , Senator shows, that without excluding other possibilities, in the majority of cases two causal conditions are the most pro- ^^ll^The sugar in the food passes into the lacteals and portal system* in a larger than normal quantity, either be- cause its conversion into lactic acid is prevented, or because it is too speedily absorbed. II The portal circulation is accelerated abnormally; hence, on the one hand, more sugar reaches the liver and passes * According to latest researclies the greater part reaches the portal vein, and only a small fraction the lacteals.