274 PEYER ON ASTHMA AND the latter, as the effect of the bronchial spasm is considerably increased by the expiratory pressure. There is, however, another variety of asthma where inspira- tion is impeded or rendered impossible for a time through clonic spasm of the diaphragm (phrenic asthma). The thorax remains some seconds fixed in the position of inspiration, the epigastrium is arched forward, the heart depressed, and the spasmodically-contracted diaphragm can be felt. Patients suffer frequently from great oppression on the chest and pain in the diaphragmatic region. These cases are, as a rule, less numerous than those of bronchial asthma, and seem to me to occur more often in women. However, bronchial and phrenic asthma can be very easily distinguished, and no one who has seen a typical case of either will have any diflSculty in diagnosis. Both kinds may be caused by sexual affections. Case I.—Severe Asthma in consequence of Maskirhation in YoutJi, and later on Spermatorrhoea—Cure. In 1871, as family medical attendant, I was called in to see Mr. A., inn-keeper and farmer. He was 26 years old, married, and had two children. Bodily strength well developed, temperament lively, and habits very regular. For a year past he frequently suffered from slight bronchial catarrh and*Trom several severe attacks of asthma. History: Patient's father suffered in later years from chronic bronchial catarrh and emphysema; his brothers and sisters, four altogether, were quite healthy, and, with the exception of measles, Mr. A. had never had any other illness. When 18, he became steward to a farmer, and it was then he first had an attack of asthma, which recurred some four times in the course of the next two years. On this account he was exempted from military service. During the following four years he actively pursued his farming duties and enjoyed excellent health. He then married, and also undertook the management of an inn. He ascribed his no longer feeling so well, and his sallow muddy complexion, to the want of his former out-door occupa- tion, and attributed his susceptibility to catarrh, which, as above mentioned, was accompanied by attacks of asthma, to being fre- quently in his vaults. These attacks became more frequent.