64 ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA The different forms which these states of mental horror assume have given rise to different designations, as if each were a disease sui generis. The most widely used of these designations is agoraj)hohia, the fear of public places or wide streets, which the patients imagine they cannot traverse alone, whilst they can do it quite well, although not without some persuasion, leaning on the arm of a companion. It is not a fear of any accident, or any other special idea which underlies this peculiar phenomenon, appearing as it does in so many different shapes, but only an indeterminate feeling of uneasiness which overcomes the patient at the view of the public place. Other patients are attacked by unconquerable uneasiness if they find themselves in an enclosed space with a number of other people, for instance in a theatre or concert-hall, especially if they sit in the middle and have the feeling that they could not get out at once, while they can stand it better if they have a place near the door or in a box. Others again cannot travel by rail because they have the feeling of being locked into the compartment and could not escape if the uneasy sensations were to come on. I once treated a gentleman who, not because of any dread of a railway accident, but simply through fear at being locked up in the train, per- formed for a lengthy period his numerous business trips, which often extended over hundreds of miles, in a horse-carriage. Others suffer, even on slight elevations, from sensations of terror, with vertigo and a feeling of compulsion to throw them- selves down. This is only an exaggeration of the vertigo felt by many healthy persons on steeples, &c. To what a degree this feeling can develop was shown me lately by an observation I had occasion to make on an otherwise healthy, highly intellectual man of business, who, up to a short time previously had always lived on the first floor, and subsequently took a beautiful new lodging on the second floor, which had low open-work window balconies. The windows looked out on a public square in one direction, and on a wide street in the other. From the first day he complained of uneasiness at the sight of these windows, and this terror became almost invincible, and persisted even at night when the patient lay in bed with the shutters closed. In the back room, which looked out on a small court, the feeling did not come on.