19C IIOFxMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. should be paid to the digestibility of the various animal and vegetable fats (oils), which is by no means equal, and those shSuld be chosen which from experience are most easily borne by the patient, e.r/., olive oil, fresh butter, pork dripping, and sardine oil. Tlie'various jellies prepared from cartilagmous and connective tissues, aspic brawn and the Hungarian Kocsonya, are quite harmless, and may be eaten without restriction. Mixed with a little vinegar and oil, diabetics relish them as an ao-reeable addition to fish and cold meats. It remains to be discussed as regards diet whether it is advisable to allow the patient to oat so much as to satisfy appetite or not. In this question again opinion has quite changed of late. For results have shown that the excessive diet of meat and eggs which patients were usually placed upon, gave rise to loathing and distaste, and from the greater difficulty in digestion caused dyspepsia with its sequelse, besides increasing the amount ot sugar Now it is preferable to allow him to feel a little hungry, than satisfy appetite completely. However, to make him fast once or twice a week, as some propose, I consider cruel, and at the same time harmful to the patient. Frequent and_ small meals are most suitable, generally five are sufficient durmg the day, bearino- in mind to vary them as much as possible. Gulmary invention will find no difficulty in preparing for several day« various appetising menus from the many kinds of --t -d fi^^ from lobsters, crabs, oysters, eggs, aspic, and from the permis- sible vegetables, fruits, and beverages mentioned above. Finally, every patient should make it a rule to eat ^Wy take small mouthfuls, and masticate thoroughly m order that the influence of the saliva may be complete. B. HYGIENIC TREATMENT. Here again no hard and fast rules can be laid down each individual should be treated most carefully according to the spe lal necessities of the case. For Instance, one of the most Tp r ant hygienic measures, the methodical mvigoration o7the system, cannot be carried out in every case of diabe es. t i onl/in tho;e cases where the temperature is but ittle below «rcold hands and feet are not complained ot, and where the :rtttion is naturally robust, that cold ^^th^'^^^-^^^^^^^^ wet friction, and aeropathic treatment can be lesoited