DISEASES OF TflE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 287 The first stage of coitus was normal, but be no doulot indulged too fi'eely, and ascribed to this circumstance the fact that at times no ejaculatio seminis took place. After such an occurrence, in the course of 24 hours, he experienced a burning sensation in the urethra, which was particularly severe when passing water. On the first occasion of this sexual anomaly, asthma appeared. There was slight pulmonary catarrh and emphysema present. The relation of the two complaints in this case was very apparent, and I at once examined the genital system. The organs were normal in shape and showed no external sign of weakness or inflammatory irritability. No history of sexual infection. Examination of the urine revealed slight urethral irritation and at times spermatozoa. Local treatment very soon improved the sexual powers. Ejaculation accompanied connection, and the result was a healthy boy. At the same time the asthma completely disappeared. At the end of 1885 I saw Mr. K. again; his wife had recently been confined. He said he had noticed latterly premonitory symptoms of his former trouble, ejaculatio seminis failed to occur during coitus, and now and then an attack of asthma came on. Kesort again to local treatment improved his condition, and cui-e now was permanent. Case VIII.—Masturbation during Youth; later on frequent Nocturnal I^missions and Coitus Eeservatus. Frequent and Severe Attacks of Asthma. Mr. F., lawyer, setat. 38, a tall, well-built man, pallid complexion, was up to 14 years of age a healthy-looking lad. He was an only child; his father, a strong man, died, setat. 52, from kidney disease; his mother, an extremely delicate and nervous woman, succumbed to lung disease, setat. 50. As far as his memory went, he said he was always of an imaginative turn of mind, especially in sexual matters. When 14 he accidentally became addicted to masturbation, which he practised continuously for the following six months. His parents admonished him to give up the pernicious habit, which he did, whereupon frequent seminal emissions occurred, often three or four nights in succession, and almost always towards