TREATME^'T OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 373 after some weeks gradually increase the close to about a thirti of a grain.* Friedreich has drawn attention to one danger attending the use of silver—the possible production of nephritis. This danger on the whole, however, appears to me to be a far from imminent one, and can easily be avoided with a little reasonable caution. A very singular thing about nitrate of silver is the unequalness of its action : in some cases it exercises a most distinct influence for the better on the morbid process, while in others, and these the majority of the cases, it does no good whatever. Some authors, therefore, have proposed lately to substitute some other silver salts for the nitrate. Thus Hamilton"^ of New York recommends the tribasic phosphate of silver as better than the nitrate in posterior sclerosis. He gives from three-tenths of a grain to three-fifths of a grain in the form of pill for several months. Eulenburg''^ thinks that the failure of silver in many cases arises from the fact that it arrives in the bowels in a reduced condition, and does not circulate as a soluble chemically active compound. He has attempted accordingly to replace the silver nitrate taken thi'ough the mouth by the hypodermic injection of the soluble salts, the phosphate of silver, and particularly the hyposulphite of soda and silver. Eosenthal'" (Vienna) however was dissatisfied with this, as these salts are uncommonly easily decomposed, and besides produce local irritation. On the other hand he had noteworthy results with the subcutaneous injection of a solution of acetate^ of silver, using 5 to 8 minims of a "5 per cent, solution. He treated five cases in this way; in two the ataxic symptoms improved veiy much, two were unafiected one way or another, and in the case of the fifth, indurations made their appearance in the skin, and along with these an increase in the lightning pains. The great susceptibility of the skin to hypodermic injections in cases of ataxia has always prevented me from heartily adopting these methods. Besides nitrate of silver, iodide of potash is the drug most used at present. The special indications for its employment, however, are rather uncertain. It seems to do good service, * Bokai" gives a very good method of preparing pills of nitrate of silver. In order to avoid the reduction of the salt he uses only kaolin in making them, with the addition of a few drops of water, and prescribes at a time only the number required for a day or two. The patient must take the pills fasting to avoid the action of the hydrochloric acid of the stomach, and must drink milk afterwards. I