SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 113 bullet, bone-splinters, a piece of linen, and a small rag of cloth in a smootb-wallecl cavity of the right lung ten years after the injury. Demme also observed encapsulation of projectdes m the lungs. The number of instances of healing-in of bullets in the internal organs is altogether very large. Quthrie, Baroisse, Thomjjson, and Bilguer found bullets lodged in the gall-Uaddey- and the liver. Arnold found a Chassepot bullet in a cavity separated by a capmle from the surrounding tissue of the liver. Von Bergmann and 8ocin found a bullet in the normal paremchyma of the Iddney, merely surrounded by a thin caimde of connective tissue. Percy and Bojer observed that in the muscles of the tongue, as in general, according to Ferry, lead is readily enclosed in the fleshy part of the muscles. In contradiction to Baudens,^ who maintains that shot easily becomes encapsuled in muscular tissue, Bemme holds that this rarely happens, but he frequently observed their wandering. The healing-in of bullets in callosities of the heart is well- kno-svn to sportsmen. Bullets and wood have been found completely encapsuled in the heart of stags and wild boars. G. Fischer has collected twelve cases of healed gunshot-wounda of the heart in man; of these there are five in which the shot remained lodged in the heart, and in one of these the patient survived his injury fifty-two years. Latour describes a case in which a bullet remained six years encapsuled in the right ventricle of the heart. Galusha discovered, twenty years after the injury, a bullet encapsuled in the wall of the right ventricle. Rardall found small shot free in the cavities of the right ventricle and auricle of the heart, and Varidelli a bullet free in the right ventricle several years after the injury. Both Longmore and Bemme observed healing-in by encap- sulation of a bullet in the spleen. Demme reports three cases of healing-in of solid shot in the cancellous tissue of the head of the thigh hone and tibia. 8imon had already previously demonstrated the encapsulation of spher- ical projectiles in the cancellous tissue of the broad articular extremities. Bementiew enumerates a great number of instances of projectiles healed-in in joints and bones without causing suppuration. Several authors mention the formation of callous wheals and of a massive callus. G. Weiss states that projectiles