275 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. patient lost flesh, arid was sent by his medical advisers to Davos, under a strong suspicion of tuberculosis. During a two months' residence there, he gained twenty-five pounds (27^ lbs. Eng.) in weight, his appearance became normal again, he lost the catarrh, and no more asthmatic attacks occurred. He was able to do plenty of mountaineering without the least fatigue. He had scarcely returned home, when the attacks came on again. In the summer of 1872 he went back to Davos for a longer course of treatment, in spite of which he again experienced several attacks at. the beginning of winter, and consequently spent the whole of that winter (from 1872 to 1873) at Davos. The follow- ing summer he remained quite free. In the autumn, howeverj they reappeared, and so severely and frequently that he had to give up his inn and retire. Notwithstanding these steps, there was no improvement, and on my advice he consulted my former teacher. Professor Biermer, of Zurich, who reported as follows on the case:ѥ " Mr. A. suffers from chronic dry. bronchitis and consequent emphysema. The cardiac dulness is much diminished owing to encroachment of the lungs; vesicular breathing cannot be heard in several arete, or is replaced by dry rales. The asthmatic attacks are produced by spastic narrowing and catarrhal swelling of the bronchioles. I recommend potassium iodide as a well- tried empiric remedy." At first he obtained some relief from the medicine, and had it made up some sixty times in the course of a year. Unfortunately he was worse than ever in the autumn of 1874. The asthmatic attacks increased terribly, and he did not venture to go out without respirator, or without being mufiled up to the ears in woollen wraps. The thought occurred to me now, for the first time, that these attacks might have some connection with the sexual functions, from what the patient casually told me when called to see him one night in an attack. He remarked that he thought sexual connection was harmful to him, and that he would have to give it up, as he was almost certain that it always brought on an attack. From this communication, I carefully inquii-ed into the sexual functions of the patient from his youth, and obtained the following statement: From boyhood he was much addicted to masturbation,