186 IIOI-'MEISTEK ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 7. Transition of Diabetes mellitus into Diabetes insipidus. An exceedingly interesting but extremely rare result of diabetes. Frerichs has observed a few cases, which he has described in his book on the subject. This gain is not of much value, as Diabetes "insipidus is likewise incurable. 8. Coma diabeticorum. Next to pulmonary phthisis this is the most frequent termination of the disease. Coma some- times overwhelms the patient suddenly in the midst of his usual activity, or whilst quite cheerful and free from mental or bodily worry. Often, however, excess of various kinds, hard work, fatigue from travelling, over-indulgence of the sexual passion, &c., precede coma, which is sometimes ushered in by brief prodromata (malaise, anxiousness, stomach-ache). The patient passes into sleep which, at first interrupted by grave excitement, soon assumes a comatose character. The pulse becomes small and rapid, respiration is very deep, at times normal in rate, at times very hurried. The bodily temperature gradually sinks as low as 30° C. (86° F.), and the extremities are quite cold to the touch. The urine, which dribbles away involuntarily or is drawn off by the catheter, gives almost always the reaction of diacetic acid on addition of perchloride of iron. This condition may last from one to three days without any return to consciousness, but generally terminates much more speedily in death. The cause of coma diabeticorum is not yet fully explained. The former view that it is caused by the poisoning of the blood with acetone or diacetic acid has been discarded, as the injection of these substances into the circulation of lower animals failed to produce similar phenomena. Abeles found in some cases of coma diabeticorum considerable quantities of glycogen in the brain, which normally contains none. But he does not ascribe to its presence any influence in the produc- tion of this state; rather he believes that in every grave form of diabetes, glycogen exists in the brain, and its demonstration is rendered possible only by rapid death due to coma. It is well known that usually even the sugar disappears a few days before death. Stadelmann, of Dorpat, has lately noted the presence of an acid in diabetic urine which he at first regarded as crotonic acid, afterwards as oxy-butyric acid, previously found by Kiilz and