210 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. liis opponents suppose, has no great clinical importance. Of much greater consequence is the question as to what constitutes the specific character of the inflammation of the vessel-wall and of the syphilitic granulation tissue. That it depends on invasion by a parasitic infectious germ the pathogenic micro-organism of syphilis can to-day be no longer a matter of doubt. Microscopic evidence of such invasion has been brought forward in various forms, first by Lustgarten, then by Doutrelepont and Schiitz, and finally by Disse and Taguchi, but the needful confirmation is still wanting. The study of this syphilitic vascular change and its conse- quences has very great clinical significance. If we simply keep to the facts as they have been established we have the following: syphilitic arteritis leads to narrowing of the vessel-wall, and ultimately to its obliteration; the necessary consequence is limitation of the blood supply and diminished nutrition of the brain substance, and proceeding a step further, anasmic necrosis or white softening. These circ alatory derangements are of the more serious moment that the arteritis has a special preference for the region of the great arteries at the base, especially the basilar and its branches. In this way the centres of vegetative life in the medulla and the great motor paths in the pons are in danger. At the same time we are not to undervalue the practical significance which attaches to the consecutive atrophy of the different layers in the wall of the larger arteries, especially the fenestrated membrane and the muscular coat. It is this atrophy which gives the conditions for the formation of aneurisms on the one hand, and for rupture of the arteries on the other. It has been repeatedly asserted that this arteritis obliterans which occurs in the syphilitic brain is anatomically only slightly different from the endarteritis deformans of old age. As long certainly as we are unable to demonstrate the existence of the pathogenic infective germ of syphilis in the infiltrated tissue in the vessel-wall, to draw the anatomical distinction in any particular case, especially if it is far advanced, will be often a matter of difficulty. Clinically, however, the features of endar- teritis deformans are as a rule very diff'erent from those _ of syphilitic endo- and periarteritis. In the first place, in syphilis the base and the cortex are preferred, while in senile endarteritis it is mostly the region of the distribution of the sylvian artery