TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OK THE SPINAL CORD. 383 VII.—Regulation of the Mode of Lfe. No organic disease of the cord can be cured by dieting, yet the regulation of the daily life plays a very important part in the treatment. The food should be, on the whole, nourishing and easily digested, though we must avoid anything like fattening-up, especially in cases where the ability to move about has already suffered; with any increase in the bodily weight these patients would become still more helpless. The consumption of alcohol must always be moderate. In the matter of clothing the chief object is to guard against getting cold or wet; looking after the skin and regular washing with tepid or cold water can also do a good deal in this direction. But the most important matter of all is as large an allowance as possible of fresh air. The benefits which even old cases frequently gain by a residence during the summer months at some spa or climatic resort are very largely to be referred to this particular influence.* This is the reason why many patients who do not require much looking after or nursing find it so much to their advantage to spend the winter m the South ; and there is nothing yet known of any specially favourable effect otherwise of one or other of these southern resorts. The going about requires to be attended to. As bodily movement alone can keep the muscles in good condition a certain amount of it must be secured according to the ability of the patient. On the other hand, we must not hesitate to forbid walking altogether if we find that it is carried on only with an effort, and that there is danger of falling. Some physicians speak favourably of the influence of complete rest in bed for a long time in some forms of spinal disease. Donkin,ioi for example, reports undoubted success in some cases of spastic paralysis, whom he kept in bed for several months Browerio2 recommends for the initial stages of tabes that the patient should be kept in bed for a long time lying on his back. In hospitals particularly it has been noticed that cases of tabes coming in in a state of exhaustion do very well with lying in bed for a while. Donkin's cases just referred to were those of^ersons in whom the disease had been brought on by muscular strain. But, on the whole, in the case of individuals who are capable * Sea-voyages are also recommended by English physicians.