228' ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. reaction to light, all phenomena which make it probable that the neuralgia is of specific origin. Nocturnal exacerbation of the pain also points to syphilis, especially when the coming on of the pain at night and subsidence after midnight occur with a certain regularity. Tha inefiTectiveness of the usual antineuralgic remedies, e.g., heat, blisters, and the galvanic current on the one hand, with the success of iodide of potash on the other, is in favour of syphilis ; so is marked and persistent thickening and shortening of the affected nerve trunk, an appearance which can be observed particularly in the sciatic with surprising distinct- ness. Seeligmuller has described a peculiar distribution of neuralgic pain in the head as characteristic of syphilis. The region affected is a strip two or three finger breadths in width, going from one ear to the other right across the vertex. The pain is worse at night, interfering with sleep. It may be brought out by pressure. It remains yet to be ascertained whether this neuralgia has its seat in the scalp, perhaps in the auriculo- temporal nerve (the opinion of Seeligmuller), or whether there is some affection of the meninges (as Rumpf thinks probable from the frequent association of other syphilitic cerebral symptoms with it). Anyhow, antisyphilitic treatment in Seeligmuller's cases was attended with immediate success. One circumstance more in this connection is worth mentioning. Sometimes in the course of syphilitic skin eruptions and syphilitic neuralgia other anomalies of function occur m the affected nerve districts, such as aneesthesia, hyperassthesia, analgesia, and disturbances of reflex action. Among the nerves of special sense, the optic is the favoured seat of syphilitic disease, as the literature of ophthalmology abundantly shows. The syphilis takes the form partly of re- tro-bulbar neuritis, partly of syphilitic papilhtis, partly, as i previously mentioned, of retinal arteritis. In the two first forms the proo-nosis, both in my experience and in that seemingly of every one else, is bad. In regard to the last form, the syphilitic disease of the artery, nothing very definite can be said about the proo-nosis; the favourable result in my above-mentioned case, m which the infiltration in the arterial wall went back under specific treatment, is an isolated observation and proves nothmg. The other nerves of special sense are so rarely affected m syphilis as hardly to come into consideration.