ERB ON TROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 258 primary lesion, and the essence of the disease was conceived to be the overgrowth of the interstitial tissue, and especially the formation of fat. The affection of the muscular fibres, according to this view, was secondary. They had atrophied, been, so to speak, surrounded and suffocated through the overgrowth of the connective and fatty tissue. But our investigations have led us to quite other views. We find that the most important and most essential changes are in the muscle fibres themselves, and look upon the alterations in the connective tissue rather as accompanying accessories, perhaps as secondary. These muscle changes are the following: First of all there is very considerable hypertrophy of the fibres, to as much as three or four times the normal.* Then there are all possible degrees of atrophy; rounding of the fibres till they are circular in form ; increase of the nuclei both at the edge and in the interior ; the formation of slits and the division of the fibres into two or more^finger-like processes ; vacuolation, sometimes only hei'e and there, sometimes to a greater extent; faint transverse and pro- nounced longitudinal striation, with a tendency to splitting of the fibres into longitudinal fibrils. On the other hand, there is no fatty or wax-like degeneration of the fibres. The changes in the connective tissue are increase and over- grovdih, slight to begin with, more abundant later on. There are firm broad strands lying between the muscle-fibres, with abundant nuclei and thickened multinucleated vessel-walls. Besides these changes there is sooner or later more or less of a deposit of fat, which may go on to distinct lipomatosis. These alterations show themselves in very different degree in the different muscles, and may be combined in the most varied way. Between muscles which give the impression of being quite normal and possess only hypertrophied or normal fibres, with a small quantity of connective tissue, and muscles * I know very well that, according to the observations of Anerbacli and of Oppenheim and Siemerlingthe existence of this hypertrophy intra vitam, at least in the fragments of muscle excised from the living subject, has been called in question. But as it is present in exactly the same way in muscles taken from the dead body, and as we can decidedly infer from the marked proliferation of nuclei and division of the fibres that there is some process of overgrowth going on in the muscle, I should like in the meantime to hold bj' the real existence of this hypertrophy, though its exact degree may possibly be modified and conditioned by the method of preparation. .Knoll's work=* has thrown some direct light on this point, and leads to the same conclusion.