HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 172 Motor disturbances, in the form of Pseudo-tabes, slight ataxia, and diminished patellar reflexes, are rarely seen, paralysis practically never, while cramp and clonic muscular twitching are met with occasionally. (Coma diabeticorum must be regarded as a nerve symptom. This, which usually forms the tragic end of diabetes, will be depicted separately in dealing with the course of the disease.) Changes in metabolic activit}^, emaciation, diminished consumption of oxygen, and depression of temperature, &c., have already been referred to. Other symp- toms, of which mention is made in the literature of the subject, raay be dismissed on account of their rarity and transient character. DIAGNOSIS—EXAMINATION OF URINE. The diagnosis of Diabetes mellitus can only be thoroughly and satisfactorily established by demonstrating the presence of a considerable physiological excess of grape sugar in the urine. Without this proof, even in the presence of other symptoms of diabetes, there is at most only room for suspicion. For there are several conditions of ill-health accompanied by a temporary excretion of sugar which must be distinguished pathologically, prognostically, and therapeutically from true diabetes, and which we designate Glycosuria. Hence the differential diagnosis must be sharply defined and the latter positively excluded ; of course this cannot always be determined after one or even several examinations. In fact it may require weeks of careful observation before the physician can certify that his patient is suffering from diabetes ; a hasty opinion has often caused a good deal of distress. The consciousness of suffering from an incurable disease produces a severe shock at all times which must not be overlooked, and it must also be borne in mind that long persistent mental depression may actually induce diabetes from glycosuria. (The essential difference between the two has already been sufficiently set forth. V. supra.) Again, diabetes should not be excluded because a single examination of the urine reveals a negative result, for by far the great majority of cases (the slight form of diabetes) excrete no sugar in the absence of carbo-hydrates and when the muscular system is active. If we examine the urine after an interval of some ten to twelve hours without food—for instance, that passed