40 BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF f^ict that frequently after gonorrhoea of long standing no stricture forms, and after gonorrha3a of but short existence it does so occasionally, and in that case also suppuration around the urethi-a and the prostate (perineal abscesses), seems to indicate that these processes are merely accidental and caused by casual immi- gration of pus-cocci. But what happens in the case of acuminate condylomas ? Their appearance in gonorrhoea is so variable that m this instance they may be regarded as accidental. Here comes a new circumstance which hitherto has not been taken into account, namely, the formative irritability of the genuine epi- thelia and the causes which call forth their activity. As this is immediately connected with the question, whether perhaps the formation of carcinoma may likewise be thought of as dependent on microbes, a question which I intend to enter into at the conclusion of these observations, I shall not discuss this subject here. There is one more point which I ought not to pass over, namely, the formation of the so-called soft fiat condylomas on the skin continually irrigated by urine. We observe this as well in vesico-vaginal fistula as in extroversion of the bladder. The continuous bathing of the perineal and femoral skin in fluids alone cannot account for it. We know from the time when wounds were treated by continuous irrigation or permanent baths that the cutis swelled to an enormous degree, but uni- formly, yet no formation of condylomas took place. There is little probability that in the circumscribed form of these condy- lomas the salts of the urine, or the ammonia of the decomposed urine alone, produce these formations, although also the ammonia contained in the alkaline urine may soften the epidermis, and even the superficial capillaries of the cutis. The afore-mentioned urinary condylomas respond rather to the settling of colonies of streptococcus urinee, which, retained in the slight unevennesses of the softened epidermis, establish themselves here and there, and bring about a moderate papillary hyperplasia with increased formation of epidermis. We therefore must consider also the streptococcus uringe as a formative, though only slightly intensive cause of stimulation. After having passed in review all the effects of formative irritation known to us of the different vegetable cells upon the