179 IIOF.MEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. each examination, equal portions are mixed together (forming Fehling's solution) and heated; no suboxide of copper should be thrown down. Five ccm. of each solution are taken, diluted fourfold with water, and placed in a porcelain evaporating dish. Then a portion of the whole urine passed in 2i hours is diluted ten times with water (1 urine to 9 water) and poured into a burette. The contents of the evaporating dish are brought to the boiling point, the dilute urine in the burette is added, drop by drop, and the gradual decoloration of the blue liquid by the suboxide of copper watched for. Oausse proposes by adding 4 ccm. of a 5 per cent, solution of ferro-cyanide, diluted with 10 ccm. of water to the 10 ccm. of Fehling's solution, in order to render the suboxide of copper colourless, so that the disappearance of the blue colour may be all the more striking. The moment the solution is completely decolorised (ascertained by tilting the evapoi'ating dish) reduction is complete, and the amount of diluted urine used is read off from the burette. Calculation.—Since 10 ccm. of Fehling's solution contains' •34639 grms. of copper sulphate, -OS grms. of grape sugar are required for its complete reduction. For instance, if 12 ccm. of dilute urine have been used, then this amount represents -05 grms. of grape sugar, and as the urine was tenfold diluted, 1*2 ccm,.- of urine contain -05 grm. of grape sugar. By proportion, 1-2 : -05 :: 100 : X, X = 4}'16 grms. in 100 ccm. of urine. If 3-5 litres of urine are passed in 24 hours, the total amount of sugar excreted per diem would be 4*16 x 35 = 145-6 grms. (about 2,185 grs.). Errors of this method : the presence of other substances capable of reducing the copper (uric acid, creatinin, glycuronic acid). 2. The amount determined by fermentation.—This depends upon the fact that sugar is split up into alcohol and carbonic acid by yeast fermentation. An apparatus consisting of two small bulbs connected by a glass tube is used. From 10 to 20 ccm. of urine is placed in one bulb, together with yeast and a little tartaric acid, the other is half filled with concentrated sulphuric acid. The whole is then weighed and set aside for some days in a temperature of 20° to 25° C. When the .evolu- tion of carbonic acid is complete, which is recognised by the clearing up of the cloudy fluid, the bulb may be gently heated in