IIOF.VIEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 176 CHEMICAL EXAMINATION OF URINE. Examination must be preceded by removal of any albumen that may be present. This is best effected by boiling. Nor- mally acid urine is heated in a test-tube up to boiling point; if it be neutral or alkaline a few drops of dilute acetic acid must first be added. The coagulated albumen is removed by filtering, and the filtrate is then ready for carrying out the following (|ualitative tests. 1. Heller's—also called Moore's—test. From 5 to 10 ccm. (ni 81 to \ri 162) of urine are poured into a test-tube and one- third its volume of concentrated solution of caustic potash (liq. potassEe B.P.) is added. The two are well shaken together, and half is poured into another test-tube and then boiled. If sugar is present it becomes distinctly darker than the unboiled half. This change is the result of the action of caustic potash on sugar 'during boiling ; the depth of colour varies as the amount of sugar present, and when it is abundant, the fluid has the colour of Jamaica rum. However, as almost every specimen of urine after addition of caustic potash and subjected to heat becomes brown, this should only be used as a preliminary or control test. 2. Trommer's test. 5 to 10 ccm. of urine are placed in a test-tube along with one-third its volume of caustic potash or soda; after; thorough agitation a few drops of a solution of cupric sulphate (cupric sulphate 1 part, distilled water 10 parts) are added. The pale blue flocculent precipitate of hydrated oxide of copper dissolves on shaking if sugar be present in any quan- tity. The copper sulphate solution is added drop by drop, the mixture shaken, until a trace of cloudiness persists in spite of repeated agitation. Heat is now applied to the upper layer until boiling is nearly reached, when a yellow or red precipitate of hydrated suboxide of copper appears, formed by the reducing action of the sugar upon the cupric oxide in an alkaline solution. 3. Fehling's solution test. This rests upon the same principle as the preceding test, but the necessary reagents (an alkaline solution of sal seignette [sodium potassio-tartrate] and a dilute solution of cupric sulphate) are freshly mixed every time. The resulting fluid—the so-called Fehling's solution—has a beautiful azure blue colour, in which precipitation of the suboxide of copper is prevented by the presence of tartaric acid. In order