TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 385 but especially the balsams, cannot be continued for any length of time: they disagree with the stomach, and disorder both the appe- tite and digestion. Mineral waters such as those of Wildungen, Vichy, Ems, &c., are more harmless in this respect, and in the milder class of cases may be continued for a long time. If the urine contains mucus and pus in abundance, in other words if the cystitis is severe, the only way of making a distinct and permanent impression upon it is by regular washing out; that is best done by means of the double catheter, with a three or four per cent, solution of boracic acid.* Under this treatment I have seen severe purulent catarrh reduced to a minimum. At the same time of course any imprudence in diet, such as indul- gence in beer, new wine, or highly-spiced dishes must be guarded against. As regards bedsores in these diseases, v. Gudden's well-known view was that they were the results of defective nursing alone, and that they had nothing to do with trophic nervous disorders. Although this goes rather far,t yet there is no doubt that by proper care we can do a very great deal to avert the complication. The parts most exposed to the risk must be carefully watched and protected from continuous pressure by means of air or water cushions, and frequent changes of positions ; scrupulous cleanness must be adhered to, and the skin regularly washed with a solution of spirit to strengthen the tone of the cutaneous vessels ; dis- infecting solutions followed by the application of powder should also be used. If there is a slight bedsore it is sufficient to dress it with zinc or boracic ointment; if there is furuncular action ■ mercurial carbolic plaister should be used, and of course the measures enumerated for prevention should now be enforced with increased rigour. When there is extensive gangrenous bedsore the treatment must be carried out strictly according to modern antiseptic principles ; these principles have many a triumph to record even on ground so unfavourable as this is, and I have repeatedly seen cases of bedsores with undermining and extensive sloughing where healing was finally attained by careful and persistent antisepsis. * Eosenthal'™ recommends for washing out, on account of .its antiseptic property, a solution of four drops of nitrite of amyl in about a pint of water. t Charcot's decubitus acutus ia unfortunately no fable ; I have repeatedly seen it arise in circumstances where there could be no question of any continuous pressure on the skin, C C