SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. Condition of the ^patient: A middle-sized, thin, delicate woman. In front, at the apex of the lungs, sharp, rough vesicular respiratory sounds; otherwise, nothing abnormal in the internal organs. In the left crural region a soft elastic tumour of the size of a child's head, giving on percussion a tympanitic sound. The integument above it, showing numerous lineee albicantes from former pregnancies, is so thin as to permit the intestinal coils to be distinctly felt. The reposition of the hernial contents was easily effected. The hernial opening, formed by a hard ring, admits three fingers. On Maij 17th, 1887, the radical operation for hernia was performed under anesthesia. After the reposition of the hernia, the now emptied hernial sac was excised by eliptical incisions. On opening the hernial sac, which had been freely ex^Dosed during the operation, an adherent omental band was tied and divided by means of the thermo-cautery. The neck of the hernial sac was secured by a kind of purse-string suture, and the hernial sac separated and divided by Paquelin's cauteiy. The remainder of the hernial sac was stitched to the hernial ring, plugged with jodoform-gauze, and the greater part of the cutaneous wound united by interrupted silk sutures; jodoform- gauze, carbolic-gauze dressing. Four days after, the dressing, which had been soiled by the menstrual secretion, was removed. The strips of jodoform-gauze were pulled out from the wound, and replaced by sterilised glass-wool, which was done that it might heal-in and produce a solid closure of the hernial opening. On changing the dressing on June 1st, the suture line was so firmly united that the stitches could be removed; the as yet ununited portion of the wound was granulating. The glass-wool healed-in most successfully; its protruding fibres were removed. The patient left her bed with a truss (with a concave pad), on June 15th, and the wound was completely cicatrised on June 27th, when the patient was discharged. She died of tuberculosis, in the General Hospital at Wiener ■Neustadt, on September 22nd, 1888. Eegarding an examination at a shorter period after the operation as premature, I intended to summon the patient to Vienna after twelve months, but, to my regret, I could not find her residence, and was subsequently informed of her death by the provincial