56 ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA walk in life as that which their fathers trod before them—these characteristics are now becoming rarer and rarer day by day. All now desire to get " up higher," not alone for their own sakes, but for their descendants! No one is contented with his lot. The efi'ects of over-population, the steadily increasing competition, the fear of political, financial, and commercial crises are all tending to the same result. Everything is hurrying onwards in the battle for existence and pleasure, and the very bodily move- ment in our great cities is indicative of this onward rush. There is a universal racing and running to business; no one has time. Only in small towns is the calm observer struck by the quiet progress of the daily toil. There we still see people moving slowly, there only is there time for conversation, for walks, or other recreations. But if, amid the tireless wear and tear of the great cities, running its convulsive course like clockwork, extraordinary events should happen, if the powers which are already taxed to the utmost in the ordinary avocations of life, should, in addition, have to encounter severe disturbances, should illnesses in the family circle, pecuniary cares, anxieties due to unruly children, conjugal differences, hard times, &c., come into play, then the most elastic disposition breaks down beneath the burden of fate. Experience teaches us, in addition, that even the clearest heads, however well fortune may befriend them in their struggle upwards, may nevertheless have their functional ac- tivity impaired by the strenuous and ceaseless character of their labour, through want of repose, and through the unsuitable character of that which they term recreation and enjoyment. Like labour, enjoyment becomes a struggle; where the brain requires rest and indulgence, exciting pleasures and so-called health excursions, accompanied by physical exertion, are taken. Just as too much work is constantly being crammed into too little time, so also is the pleasure of life bolted in concentrated form. The natural consequence is not the repose, strengthening, and invigoration of the overworked nervous system, but a fatiguing exertion in another direction, which leaves in its turn weariness and lassitude behind. Nowhere are the results of this struggle for existence, this frantic pursuit of gain and pleasure, seen on so extensive a scale as in the United States. It was there that the concept of neur-