PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTUENA IN MALES. 335 me in the winter of 1882-83 about his periodically wetting the bed. He did not look more than 15, was pale and anasmic, and although he had a very good appetite, he was always tired, sluggish in his movements, and dull of comprehension. He had never wetted the bed in early childhood; it first began when he was about seven. No family history of this affliction. The penis was very large, and the testicles well developed. He stated he never had nocturnal emissions, and even professed not to know what they were. He strenuously denied masturbation. Exami- nation of the urine more than once revealed leucocytes and urethral epithelium in varying amount, and his landlady on my inquiry told me that the bed linen was very frequently stained. The youth now confessed that ever since he was five he practised masturbation, and kept on doing so to an excessive degree, frequently four or six times a day. He soon felt the consequences; he was often ill in the morning, his head felt oppressed and heavy, he could learn nothing, bodily development was retarded, and he began wetting the bed. Seminal emissions occurred shortly after 14, and when he consulted me, they even took place during the day at erotic thoughts or with certain move- ments of the body. Latterly nocturnal incontinence had remained about the same. Treatment consisted in introducing full-sized metallic bougies and leaving them in the urethra for some time. As soon as the patient ceased wetting the bed he passed away from under my care, and I have not heard anything further from him. In both cases I have shown that a chronic irritable state of the prostatic portion of the urethra may be the sole cause of enuresis even in boys whose uro-genital tract had hitherto been perfectly healthy. From both histories we have seen what was the cause which had abnormally increased the number of erections which naturally take place in childhood, and thereby induced this in- flammatory condition, viz., masturbation. Ultzmann (" Nervous Affections of the Male Genito-urinary System") states: "Mas- turbation and venereal excess, in which persistent unnatural erection is kept up for a considerable time, are not infrequent causes of the prostatic urethra, and especially of the caput gallinaginis, becoming hypera^sthetic, hypertemic, and catarrhal, and consequently stimulating reflexly the contraction of the detrusors."