295 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE OJtGANS. Wlieu 25 lie returned to Switzerland, where lie bad hoped to o-et rid of his headache, which in the meantime had become nigli mibearable. However, his hopes were doomed to disappointment. When 27 he was compelled, from external circumstances, to marry. Although he was very moderate in sexual intercourse, he always felt unwell after it. Ejaculation occurred prematurely, and sexual desire was very slight. After some time, owing to his losing flesh and the frequency of headache, he was advised to give up work. A two years' rest, however, brought no improvement, and Mr. Th. consequently resumed his occupation. When 30 he suflered severely from sciatica on the left side, which lasted some nine months. Morphine had to be frequently administered hypodermically. Headache had somewhat decreased during that time, but returned as severe as ever, accompanied by frequent giddiness. He remembered one night to have awaked with a dreadful feeling of giddiness, headache, and oppression on the chest. When 32 he suffered for a time from a peculiar form of mental aberration whilst executing some work, which was so great a strain on his mind that for a week he was quite unable to sleep. As a result he became affected with ideas of exaltation, which lasted some 14 days. He thought that he was called upon to reform his trade by delivering addresses and by writing upon the subject, and that he was endowed with great ability and strength. A few days after he discovered he was unfitted for his supposed vocation, and thought he was despised on all sides ; took gloomy views of everything, and despaired of the future. During the day he was restless, never sitting still; at night he either did not sleep or, which was worse, suffered from nightmare. His medical attendant wished to send him to an asylum. Suddenly he quite recovered mentally. He felt as if a great change had come over him. For nearly a year after he was much better, and no longer troubled with headache. Then by degrees obstinate constipation reappeared, accompanied by headache and the above-mentioned spasm of the diaphragm. He was much depressed in spirits, and the amount of work he was able to do was much less, which greatly distressed hira, as he had now four children to suppoi't. Examination of the lungs revealed nothing abnormal—no catarrh and no emphysema, and the other organs of the body were apparently healthy. The urine was free from albumen and