279 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. to do so, he spent two months in Gersau (Lake of Lucerne), where he obtained no relief. On examination I found moderate bronchial catarrh and well-marked emphysema. The somewhat scanty frothy expectoration revealed under the microscope asthma crystals, like the spines of a hedgehog. The urine contained neither albumen nor sugar, but almost ever}- time a varying amount of semen could be detected, along with urethral mucus, although .the patient never had gonorrhoea. I diagnosed severe neurasthenia, reflex asthma depending upon chronic posterior urethritis, and spermatorrhoea. Treat- ment, which was chiefly directed to the primary affection, confirmed the diagnosis. The patient completely recovered and has since remained well. Case ITL—At the end of February, 1883, Mr. F., teaclier in Z., in the Black Forest, Baden, came under my care. He was 26 years old, very tall, broad shouldered, big-boned, with well- developed muscles (Mr. F. served in the Guards), but looked pale and antemic. He complained chiefly of a peculiar form of coryza and periodic attacks of asthma. The former, for the last five 3-ears had regularly occurred twice a week and on definite days, Wednesdays and Saturdays. On each preceding evening prodromata manifested themselves, consisting in general malaise, a feeling of heaviness in the head and of oppression on the chest; frequent sneezing ensued and a tenacious mucus was secreted from the nose. The same night the patient was restless, had troubled dreams, and awaked in the morning unrefreshed. The nasal mucosa began now to secrete a watery fluid, the eyes kept on filling, and violent sneezing occurred incessantly. The sneezing at the nose was so copious that Mr. F. often used ten pocket-handkerchiefs a day, which became dripping wet. Towards evening the nasal discharge abated considerably, but the sneezing was still frequent. The night was passed undis- turbed, the next morning on waking he felt refreshed, and the attack was over. This recurred in an exactly similar manner in the same week. In the interval between the attacks there was no nasal secretion, and the patient did not use a handkerchief at all.