LOWENFELD ON EECENT ADVANCES IN THE 356 pathic establishments, and at the indifferent thermal spas, are the same as we see put in force in almost all the other watering places in Germany to which patients of this class habitually resort. A rapid glance through recent literature will sufficiently confirm what has been stated in the text. Benedict" remarks: "The chronic progressive forms of inflammation with proliferation of the connective tissue require as a rule hydrotherapeutic treatment. The statement admits of few exceptions, that in chronic neuritis, as we have it in such affections as locomotor ataxia and progressive muscular atrophy, warm baths have no retarding influence on the morbid process and do more harm than good." In cases of myelitis, EosenthaP» allows of the use of warm baths of from 82 to 86° Fahr., and also half-baths, when the temperature is from 75° to 71° at entering, and from 68° to 64° at leaving the bath. Erb" recommends in chronic organic disease of the cord tepid or cool baths, gentle hydropathy, dilute chalybeate baths, and care- fully regulated thermal brine baths. Richter'' says that m locomotor ataxia and chronic myelitis the temperature should rano-e between 90° and 68°, and that anything higher or lower than these figures should be looked upon as involving risk or danger. In another and later communication'^ he gives as the lowest allowable bath-temperatures in organic spinal disease, with hait- baths and sitz baths 73° to 71°, with washing-down and the wet sheet 68° to 66°. Winternitz^" also warns against the use o± very cold or very warm baths, or powerful mechanical stimuh, and hardly uses anything else than half-baths of from 86 to 73 A Brlenmeyer^^ in cases of locomotor ataxia allows only baths at about 82° Heller 2« (Teplitz) remarks that in locomotor ataxia the treatment shoiild regularly begin with baths at 86°, foUowmg up with simple half-baths, and that in comparatively rare cases a rise of temperature to 90° or 91^° at the utmost may be indicated. Eeumont" (Aix-la-Chapelle) finds that syphilitic cases of ataxia in the advanced states, and when the constitution is uudermi^^^^^^^ take best with baths at 89° to 91°. or at the utmost 93°^ Voight - (Rehme-Oeynhausen) uses in chronic niAamma ory affections of the cord, brine baths and thermal brine baths at 88 to 81^ Miiller- (Rehme-Oeynhausen) recommends the same kind ot baths at 88° to 84° in tabes. Stifler- (Stahlbad Steben) uses m t'bes chalybeate baths at 89°, and Caspari3. (Meinberg), the aSa ed ba'ths of Meinberg at 78° to 88°, and never for over ten minutes. Grodel3^ (Nanheim) in tabes to begm with, uses brine baths at 91°, never going below 82°, and in chronic myehtis with increased reflexes, brine baths at 89 to ^8 . ■ Among recent German authorities, Leyden m his text^book on diseases of the spinal cord expresses himself unreservedly in