TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 357 favour of warm baths. His views, however, since then may have changed. Schuster(Aix-la-Ohapelle) also has advocated their use. According to him and other physicians in Aix, baths at 95° are for the most part those which have been found of use, while any- thing colder has acted unfavourably. This hardly agrees with Reumont's experience, and we must furthermore bear in mind that the spinal cases which find their way to Aix are almost exclusively syphilitic cases, and that among them there is no doubt a large number in whom the constitution has been under- mined, and who are extremely susceptible to temperature. In France, however, the use of warm baths, especially those at Bourbonne, Aix-le-Bains, Balaruc, La Malon, and Neris, finds a good deal more support. The springs of La Malou, in the depart- ment of I'Herault, which are alkaline and gaseous, and contain a little iron and arsenic, are used in baths at a temperature of 86° to 104°. They enjoy a great reputation, and are recommended in locomotor ataxia by physicians of the highest standing, such as Charcot, Combal, and Grasset^^ But even among these western neighbours of ours a reaction seems preparing. Glax'^ at least warns against the use of either too high or too low temperatures in the hydrotherapeutics of tabes. But it must be noted before con- cluding that although in the greatmajority of instances, according to our present information, bathing at a temperature of 91° to 72° will be found most suitable, this is not an absolute rule for all cases of organic spinal disease. Among the cases that have fallen under my own observation there have been several for whom baths at 91° were found to be too cold, and to exercise an injurious influence. I have never hesitated in such cases to raise the temperature to 93° or 95°, and in regard to these temperatures, as in regard to all the other factors coming into consideration in bathing, the effect of the treatment on the patient must be accepted as our guiding line in each individual case. When we have come to know that for the majority of cases of chronic structural disease of the cord neither cold nor very- warm baths are permissible, we have unquestionably made a very important step in advance. But the knowledge must have been purchased at the expense of a large number of bad results. Formerly the same spinal cases were treated in the hydropathic establishments with cold baths, cold washing down, or cold douching, and at the thermal spas with warm or even hot baths. Many patients came to grief in both places, but the results of the spa treatment were particularly bad. Erbj^" for example, mentions that in more than a half of the cases of chronic m3^elitis in which he was able to ascertain the. result of a course of