BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 18 who followed his lead. Now-a-days everything is over-hastened ; our time suffers from an unappeasable hankering after continual new, or apparently new, facts, with the hope of a possible sensa- tional success. No time will now-a-days be allowed to take occasional rest for reflection and. reconsideration on the on- ward road of scientific pursuits. Where have we arrived at? What have we left behind—what lies ahead ? Is it worth the while to proceed in this or that direction ? Did we gain by our detailed work profitable knowledge of, and insight into, the whole ? For all this one does not find time now. " Irritation and irritaUlity," once the watchword, the Alpha and the Omega of a whole medical school! We cannot dispense with these notions in our investigations of organic nature. Therefore also Virchoiv's interpretation in this direction can never become obsolete ; on the contrary, it still remains to the present day the basis of whatever we can or wish to designate by these terms, strange as it may seem to us to find the great reformer batthng against views which for the present generation can only appear intelligible by the aid of detailed historical studies. In that, however, we best recognise the fundamental influence which Virchoiv has exerted from the standpoint of pathological anatomy over the whole conception of the processes of living organisms. Virchoiv was the first who lucidly demonstrated that not only the nerves and muscles are invested with irritability, but that irrita- bility is likewise a property of the substance of each individual cell, and that this irritability can manifest itself by alterations of function, nutrition, and formation; the action of the stimuli can only be explained on the supposition that they transiently call forth, or permanently produce, specific chemical and physical alterations in the change of matter of living organisms. Although the limits functional, nutritive, and formative irritahiUty can as little be separated with precision as those of the functional, nutritive, and formative stimuli, nevertheless there is in this distinction a rich source of understanding of, and interest in, processes taking place in tissues which in their continual evo- lution lead to the most remarkable normal and pathological products. VircJioiv, in his afore-mentioned treatise, principally occupied himself with the formative irritahiUty. We shall in the following briefly review those influences on the living organisms which have to be considered as formative stimuli on living tissues.