TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 877 for some forms of toxic paralysis, and later, in 1868, it was recommended by Dujardin-Beanmetz in locomotor ataxi'a. But the latter, in liis most recent statement"" on this subject, acknowledges that he has never seen recovery from tabes under the use of phosphorus, but only improvement, and even with regard to this improvement, that it is anything but certain wheth.er it is to be attributed to the phosphorus. When this is the state of matters, I think we had better leave so doubtful a drug alone. Ergotin and atropin cause, according to Brown-Sequard. narrowing of the vessels of the cord; they should, therefore, very suitably be employed in hypereemic conditions. I confess I have never been able to note any remarkable result from the use of either of them. Ergotin has recently been particularly recom- mended in several quarters (Hammond, Benedict, Striimpell) for posterior sclerosis. Grasset,"! however, has drawn attention to the fact that this treatment is not unattended with dangers. He had under observation one case of tabes in which paralysis of all the four extremities and of the voice occurred under the use of ergot; these disappeared when the drug was omitted. All the other agents which have been recommended here and there for affections of the cord—quinine, iron, arsenic, conium. veratria, curara, calabar bean, chloride of gold, and sodium- call for very little remark. Quinine and iron may now and then be used for symptoms. Arsenic is recommended by Gowers^s in tabes. The value of the rest is more than problematical. In cases^ where there are indications of spinal irritation, pain, spastic symptoms, increased sexual excitability, the bromides are frequently used with success. The same holds good of narcotics: their continued use was formerly often an unavoidable evil, but happily we can now replace them largely by antifebrin and anti- pyrm. These two last-named drugs have been unquestionably a distinct addition to our armamentarium. No doubt they have never proved to be of lasting service for the structural lesions in any case of organic disease, but they are extremely valuable from a symptomatic point of view. In the treatment of the lightning pains which are often so excruciating, of severe girdle pains, of such spastic symptoms as cramp of the bladder, and of the various forms of crises, rectal, laryngeal, &c., they surpass every remedy we at present possess with the exception of the