SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. i-^O body shall be reported more fully, and supplementary to those an account of the description of histological and other details. Besides the above-mentioned case, the following may be of interest:— (2) A boy aged thirteen years (Ambulance case-book No. 1844. of Prof. Billroth's clinic for the year 1888) had for eight months healed in the subcutaneous cellular tissue of the head a triangular glass-splinter, about 1 cm. long and 0-5 cm. broad at the base, which was surrounded by a very minute quantity of serum, in a capsule of delicate connective tissue. (3) A tiler, K. G., twenty-six years of age, presented himself in May, 1889, stating that five months previously he had received from a blow with a beer-glass against the fingers of the right hand a small wound on the dorsal side of the first metacarpo-phalangeal articulation of the first finger, which had soon healed up. Four weeks ao-o, for the first time he felt inconvenience, and a sensation of pricking accompanied by a resistent infiltration of the skm at the injured place set in, pressure called forth intense stabbing pain. An incision having been made through the firm infiltration, a piece of glass, sharply pointed at one end, about 7 mm, long and 4 mm. broad, surrounded by a most minute quantity of serous fluid, was removed. (4) A girl, 10 years of age (Amb. 0. B. No. 1694, for 1889), ran five weeks ago against a window pane, a splinter of which remained under the frontal integument. It healed up without reaction; later on the cicatrice opened, and a splinter became visible, but soon disappeared again. At present it sticks out from a small opening in the skin. Dilatation of the hole by incision; extraction of the splinter, which was lodged in a cavity moistened hij serum; no pus. (5) A man of the fire-brigade, aged thirty-three (Amb. C. B. No. 1983, f. 1889), some months ago, whilst entering through a window, had a glass-splinter thrust into the left knee immediately above the patella. Ointments were applied, and the wound healed without pain, but there remained at the place an induration. Two months ago pricking pain was brought about by bending the leg, or by kneeling. A longish nodosity obliquely above the patella was extirpated, inside which a glass-splinter 16 mm. in length was found in a small cystic space. The capsule consisting of connective tissue having been excised in toto, was divided, its