BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF .12 constituents; what is left to the tissues is either absolutely in- sufficient for their existence, or produces in them abnormal conditions, e.g., softening or coagulation, 3. Microbes produce secretory matters which call forth an abnormal condition in the tissues, and eventually directly destroy them. 4. The products of change (Ptomaines, Brieger) enter into the blood and act as poisons, e.g., on the nervous system; or they directly cause decomposition of the blood, which only slowly or not at all is neutralised. These effects on the blood also cease with the action of the microbes on the diseased part. 5. Microbes find their way into the blood, fix themselves in the capillaries at odd places, produce here new focuses of disease, from which result the same effects on the blood as from the primary focus, i.e., they set up metastasis. 6. The microbes enter into the blood, live and multiply in the circulating blood, and starve, or poison, or decompose it. I do not assert that herewith all the possible eSects of the action of the microbes, which, until lately, we always considered merely as destructive, are exhausted, but the principal points of our idea may hereby be indicated, as they of course can enter into manifold combinations with each other. These conclusions were followed by communications on the Lepra-bacilli (Klehs), on the Scleroma-bacilli (A. von Frisch), as excitants of proliferation of connective tissue, which at once upset the notions which we hitherto had entertained on the purely destructive effects of the microbes. We suddenly found om-selves face to face with the fact that vegetable cells can act as a purely formative stimulus on the animal tissue cells. Now followed the most recent observations on the formation of tubercles, and of the nodules of Charbon by the action of bacilli, which at first act as a formative stimulus on the fixed corpuscles of the connective tissue, then produce increased vascularity, eventually suppuration in the circumference, and finally cause necrosis of the primary new formation. Likewise a combination of hyperplasia with inflammation and necrosis. This kind of action of growing vegetable cells on animal cells presents a most remarkable phenomenon, which, in the following, I shall endeavour to treat of more explicitly. But before we continue, may I be permitted to speak of some