BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 42 produced from each portion of a brancb, and at the superior portion of the branch sometimes even new, so-called " adventitious hud-spores " are formed. The leaves of many Gesneriacece produce, at the place where the petiole has been fractured or notched, new buds, which may become starting points of new leaves and branches. Therefore a pathological stimulus is followed by the formation of new physiological organs. (This reminds one of the "post-regeneration " in injured frog eggs, described by W. Roux.) We shall not, probably, for a long time succeed in tracing the causes of these 'processes, even if we were able to analyse the morphological process itself much more accurately with improved microscopes than we have already been able to do. In general we may suppose that the effects of formative irri- tation also in more highly organised plants are much more effective in every direction than in animals. As, according to the observations at our disposal, divided vege- table cells always perish, and only the next following uninjured cells come into formative activity, we might surmise that the products of decomposition forming during the decay of the injured cells act as chemical irritants upon the nearest cells. All these, however, are but infinitesimal agents in processes of such magnitude in their essence and effects. What is of particular interest to us is the observation that a large series of excessive tissue formation in plants or buds, leaves, stalks, and roots, the so-called galls" ov cecidia" are called forth by stimuli which undoubtedly are caused by animal cells.* I shall only briefly mention the existence of the mijcocecidia, i.e., galls, which are exclusively produced by the luxuriant growth of fungi. To these belong the " Woodr-hiot " (" Hohh-opf") of the trembling poplar or aspen Popidus tvemula") on the stem and branches of which knobs of the size of a filbert to that of a pigeon's egg are formed by the luxuriant growth of certain fungi (" Fyrenomycetes "), the turgescences of the roots of Fapi- lionacece and of the alder by a fungus as yet little known C'Schinzoa leguminosariim"), &c. Of great morphological interest are likewise the microscopical galls which are produced on some algte by Ght/tridiacece, especially of the genus Synchi- * I am principally indebted for my information on these most remarkable formations to the excellent work of A. B. Frank, Diseasi^s of Plants" ("Die Krankheiten der Pflanzen." Breslau, 1880.)