ZIEMSSEN ON SYrHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 219 no drug treatment whatever. Furthermore, even in undoubted brain syphilis, especially in the later stages of extensive vascular lesion, anti-syphilitic treatment only too often is of no use. Coming to a definite conclusion, then, by the aid of therapeutic experiment is not so easy. Further investigations, let us hope, will bring light on these complicated questions. That they are of the highest practical importance is very evident. I come now to deal with the syphilitic diseases of the spinal cord. These lesions are no doubt of much rarer occurrence than those of the brain and its membranes, though recent times have modified our views here also in more than one particular. Lesions of the spinal column and its periosteum, to judge from the small number of recorded cases, are among the greatest rarities. Syphilis of the dura, the arachnoid, and the pia appears to be somewhat more common. It occurs in the form of diffuse gummatous meningitis, the circumscribed gumma of the spinal membranes being rare. The symptoms of syphilitic meningitis are those characteristic of chronic meningitis—spinal rigidity and tenderness, with root- symptoms, chiefly sensory, in the form of eccentric neuralgias and parsesthesiffi. When the anterior roots are afl:ected, motor paralysis is a prominent feature ; this possesses all the characters of atrophic paralysis. The absence of other spinal symptoms is, in a case like this, of great value, as shutting out disease of the cord substance itself. Of further importance for the diagnosis of syphilitic disease is the fact that, in accordance with their nervous supply, any muscle or group of muscles in the body may be attacked, the muscles of the trunk being affected as often as those of the extremities. The bladder and rectum may not escape. Anaesthesia extending over a wide area may be accom- panied or ushered in by severe neuralgia. In short, a picture of disease is presented which, with its combination of sensory disturbance with paralysis and a high degree of atrophy of numerous muscles, can be recognised as something quite peculiar. Of course differences in the longi- tudinal and transverse distribution of the morbid process can give very great variety to the features of the disease in different cases. Instead of any further description I will give an account of a case that came under my own observation. It is instructive in every respect, and especially in this, as proving that in even