348 LOWENFELD ON KECENT ADVANCES IN THE of the various remedies used in spinal disease, and these have resulted in improvements in their mode of application, and in a more careful estimate of the indications for their employment. Lastly, a great deal that is of importance for treatment has been brought to light by the more thorough study of the causes of these diseases. I will only mention the connection; so much discussed in recent years, between syphilis and locomotor ataxia, Tuczek's^ proof that disease of the posterior columns can be caused by chronic ergot-poisoning, and the derivation of one form of spastic spinal paralysis from the effects of poisoning by lathyrus oicera? We must not, however, conceal from ourselves the fact that the advances made in the diagnosis and treatment of these diseases do not benefit all those affected to the extent that their outward circumstances might allow. This regretable state of things is due, in my opinion, to two causes. The first of these refers to the difficulties in the way of diagnosis. The recognition of chronic affections of the spinal cord in the earliest stages, that is, when they are most amenable to treatment, requires not only an accurate acquaintance with the various forms of spinal disease, but also such a familiarity with all the methods of neuro-pathological examination as has not yet become common property among all the members of the medical profession. The second cause is that we are at present over-loaded with remedies and therapeutic methods, and the practitioner who has had no great experience of his own finds his choice of a suitable line of treatment for any particular case very difficult. Our arma- mentarium against spinal diseases is continually being over- furnished with remedies which are thrown into the market, to begin w^ith, without being sufiiciently tested, and after a longer or shorter period disappear again from view. It lies in the nature of things that the former of these two difficulties will not be set aside for some time. But it should be now possible to remove, or at least to considerably diminish, the effect of the latter, and to produce some degree of separation of the chaff from the wheat. The following remarks are intended to be a contribution to this end. Before we proceed to pass these remedies under review, I think it desirable to make ourselves briefly acquainted with the limitations which are placed on our therapeutic efforts from the