131 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. the humerus of a dog. After two months, likewise, pseudo- arthrosis had formed, but only with very little suppuration. (7) A rounded glass cylinder was placed between the fragments of the leg of another dog. The wound healed by first intention in a dressing of soluble glass. Pseudo-arthrosis after five months. (8) A thin-walled glass shell was inserted between the frac- tured ends of the bone of the fore-arm of a rabbit. Plaster of Paris bandage. The fracture was united after two months. At the post-mortem examination, five months after the operation, the numerous delicate splinters of the broken glass shell were found embedded in the abundant callus of the bone. (9) Experiment on a rabbit. Glass-wool was plugged into the knee-joint, in place of the resected left external articular condyle of the femur. The muscles and the skin were united by sutures. Condition four iveeJcs after the operation: The knee-joint externally, and in its movability, unaltered. After the removal of the skin, no signs of a preceding injury in the deeper soft parts. A vertical section through the knee below the semi-lunar cartilages brought the latter into view, which, like the tibial articular surface, were pale and moistened with serum, but there was no abnormal eflusion, or dropsy of the joint. After the removal of the semi-lunar cartilages, the pale, smooth surface of the internal articular condyle was found unaltered; in the place of the ex- ternal condyle there was a mass resembling masticated white bread, approaching in shape that of the external condyle, by having its surface rounded. The patella with its tendon glides in a shallow groove of this mass, between both condyles. The line of demarcation of the bone, towards this foreign mass being more vascular than the remaining portion of the bone-surface is visible as a narrow red line. Nowhere extravasated blood or pus, only articular moisture. The microscopical examination: (1) Between the fibres of a small portion of the glass-wool, taken from the superficial layer and stained with hEematoxylin, only detritus, but no stained cells were visible. (2) In the prepared section of the knee-joint, decalcined in a ^ per cent, solution of chromic acid, -especially at the border-zone of the defect of the bone, rich vascularisation between the glass-fibres and the endothelioid cells with a glassy intercellular substance. The osseous structure rarefied. Nowhere mari'ow containing fat.