SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 141 union of tlie wounds of the bones. When, however, after a fortnight the foreign body was removed, the result appeared by no means quite satisfactory. There was no osseous anchylosis, but the mobility was slight. It would certainly be better to permit a suitably-shaped larger glass piece to heal-in perfectly, or, at least, to remove it after a longer lapse of time. Every one who possesses practical experience will feel the desirability of the improvement of our present methods for the establishment of artificial articulations and the prevention of anchylosis. Did not a past master in resection like Oilier report only last year that he was obliged in one case to operate three times in the elbow in order to obtain finally a movable joint ? I recently tried to prevent, by insertion of gutta-percha in a secondary suture of the tendons, the union between the tendinous and cutaneous cicatrices, on the final results of which experiment I shall report later on. The twice-repeated attempt to replace the defect of the cranium and the dura mater by glass failed in consequence of the animals experimented on (cats) having soon after died of mange. These experiments will be repeated, but their good result is already anticipated by the favourable observations on tissue-alteration produced by glass in other parts of the body, and, on the other hand, by the successful healing-in of india-rubber plates in defects from trephining (Lesser)* Successful trials have been instituted by Stern to prevent adhesions in the abdominal cavity by means of coUodium. It is only questionable whether this kind of proceeding as regards the peritoneal cavity will find practical advocates, as the un- favourable results caused by the formation of adhesions after laparotomy are in reality very exceptional. Apart from the healing-in of glass in view of the formation of cavities, this might certainly also be employed as an innocuous material, especially . in the form of glass-wool, for filling up * Note hy the Translator.—Dr. von Eiselsherg, Lecturer on Surgery at the Vienna University, recently (May 28th, 1891) demonstrated before the Society of Physicians of Vienna two cases in which defects of the cranial bones had been successfully replaced by the healing-in of celluloid plates. In one of these, a case of caries, the diseased bone was removed, and a plate was substituted with complete success. In the second case there was a cicatrix and depression of the frontal bone from the kick of a horae, which had caused epileptic fits. The cicatrix of the bone was removed by trephining, and the defect remedied by the healing- in of such a plate, with a technically perfect success, though there is no security against the return of the fits.—D. J. v. L.