STKUMrELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSKS. 321 contractures. They occur, it seems to me, much more frequently in the upper than in the lower extremities, and are often associated with marked cutaneous hyperaasthesia. In such cases the patients say that the arm immediately after the injury— which does not need to be a very severe one—^dropped as if paralysed, and has remained immovable since. Passive mobility is often fully retained, but in some cases the movements are felt to be painful in the deeper parts, especially at the seat of the injury. Trophic disturbances in the skin and muscles, as a rule, are absent. In some cases, where the paralyses have lasted a long time, we can observe slight wasting of the affected limb, but the electrical irritability of the muscles and nerves remains perfectly normal. Other nervous symptoms in cases of pure local traumatic neurosis are absent. In particular, the mental alteration so characteristic of the general form is hardly ever observed. No doubt the patients show considerable anxiety under examination, and children are often wilful and unmannerly, but we see nothing of that melancholic hypochondriasis which so dominates over the whole mental life of those affected with the general form. The question of the essential nature of local traumatic neurosis is a much simpler one than the analogous inquiry in the general form. As from the way in which the injury was received there could be usually no possibility of concussion of the central nervous system, we get rid at once of all the difficulties we met with in our discussion of the general form about the interpreta- tion of possible delicate changes in the nervous structures. We liave to do with purely functional disturbances alone, and in this we observe the complete agreement between local traumatic neurosis and hysterical affections; it is, therefore, not incorrect to call the former traumatic hysteria, that is, hysteria of traumatic origin. In order to make this clearer I must briefly explain what I hold to be the right conception of hysteria. Fuller discussion of the subject must be reserved for another occasion. I call those affections " hysterical" which originate thi-ough a disturbance of the normal connections and relations between the nervous processes which are concerned with the bodily functions, and which, for the most part, are situated centrally, and those Y