307 STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. fears of various kinds. The patients cannot brace tHemselveS to any kind of regular employment. Everything irritates and distresses them. They avoid meeting other people, and ar(3 alarmed at any loud noise or slight commotion, or such like. Their agitation rises to a high pitch on the occasion of every fresh medical examination or inquiry. This is also the cas(i when their recollections of the accident become unusually lively ; for example, when they revisit the place where it occurred. The patients frequently complain that their memory is weak, and that they are incapable of fixing their mind steadily on any subject. For example, they are unable to read for any length of time ; after a few minutes their thoughts get confused, and they cannot understand what they have read. It is the same with every other kind of mental activity. They can no longer calculate figures as they used to do, or follow a story or a sermon.. In many instances these symptoms, especially when they are present only to a slight extent, seem to me to depend, properly speaking, on a disturbance of the intelligence. It is merely that the patients are taken up almost exclusively with themselves and their troubles, and that they have no attention to spare for any- thing outside, nothing else making a deep or lasting impression on them. But in severe cases, as I have seen again and again, distinct mental weakness comes on at last, with failure of memory and incapacity for any continuous mental exertion. The. sleeplessness, also, of which most of them complain must be for the most part referred to the persistent mental unrest which I have described. The constant anxiety hardly ever permits of the quiet state of mind which is the first condition of falling asleep, or not infrequently the thoughts of the waking state are carried on into dreams, which then associate themselves more or less closely with the events of the accident. A sleep of this kind, of course, is restless and unrefreshing. All these mental symptoms are so characteristic of general traumatic neurosis that there is scarcely a single case in whicli they are quite absent. Their occurrence was not altogetlier unknown to the older observers, but their importance and pro- found significance for the comprehension of this morbid condition^, as a whole, has only recently been shown, in pai-ticular by Moeli and Oppenheim. They vary very much in intensity, being present sometimes in a slighter, sometimes in a severer, form, aj;d