BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 38 vacuoles ? And if they be spores, where do they remain ? They disappear and we are no longer able to trace them ; nobody has ever seen them germinating. Could they not continue to vegetate in some form of cocci, and as such call forth different kinds of stimulus on the tissue from that of the fully developed bacilli ? " Chi lo sa ? " (" Who knows ? ")• Whilst the tubercle bacilli only conditionally produce the phenomena of acute inflammations, and as such never copious suppuration, the Olcmders bacilli act at the same time as for- mative stimuli and also pyogenic, upon the fixed tissue elements. The formation of small foci of endothelial cells is speedily followed by the emigration of leucocytes in masses, and sub- sequently also by destruction by purulent softening of the tissue. The glanders bacilli therefore occupy, as regards their pathogenic effects, in some measure the mean between tubercle bacilli and pus cocci. Thereby they rapidly lead to purulent ulcerative processes, and, when rapidly developing and energetically vegetating, to general septo-pyaBmic poisoning; again, a quite peculiar action of vegetable cells upon animal cells. The existence of the Syphilis hacilhis has not yet been proved beyond dispute.* There is some probability that it might be related to the tubercle and the glanders bacillus. The soft * Note by the Translator.—Passing over tliose agents of the sypMlitic vims which had formerly been regarded as syphilis microbes, which, however, did not comply with the requirements of the present standpoint of Bacteriology, we have first to mention the bacillus discovered in 1885 by Lustgarten in syphilitic products, which much resembles, both in its form and in its size, the tubercle baciUus, and is characterised by specific methods of staining. Lustgarten dyed his sections in Ekrlich Weigert's solution gentian violet at the temperature of the room for twelve to twenty-four hours, and after this at a temperature of 40° C. (104° F.) in an incubator for two hours, washed them for a few minutes in absolute alcohol, and placed them for the purpose of discolouration for ten seconds in an aqueous solution of one and a half per cent, of hypermanganate of potassium, and then for about the same length of time in sulphurous acid. After washing the sections in water they are again placed for about three to four seconds into the above- mentioned discolouring fluid, and after three to four times repeating the process the ground of the preparation will be discoloured and only the bacilli will appear as violet, slightly undulated, or S-shaped curved rods. Dry cover glass preparations of syphilitic sections or tissue fluid are stained in the same manner, only that the preparations are left for a shorter time in the colouring solutions, and after staining them in the gentian violet they are not washed in alcohol, but in water. A more simple method is that of De Giacomi, who stains his dry cover glass preparations for a few minutes in a hot solution of fuchsine and then in water with the addition of a few minims of a solution of perchloride of iron, and after washing them in water, discolours them in a concentrated solution of perchloride