90 ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. manifest when it was found that all the criticism and investiga- tion which followed not only made no essential change but made no important addition to Eis statements. Every link in the chain of evidence was as firm as the whole. Physicians immediately accepted the new doctrine, and honour- ably set themselves to transform their conceptions in accordance with the bacillary hypothesis. That many obstacles to the acceptance of the entire theory existed at first was quite obvious, and the elucidation of separate problems connected with tuber- culosis, when regarded from, this point of view, seemed attended with insurmountable difficulty. This was the case in the first instance with the theory of heredity. There is perhaps no fact which has been considered so completely beyond doubt as the hereditary character of tubercu- losis. It was the daily observation of the physician that this disease gathered its harvest among the children of tubercular parents. Scrofulous in childhood and tubercular in youth, he saw them grow up and fade away. How, then, is this axiom of experience to be brought into agreement with the bacillary theory ? Different ways of reconciliation have been proposed. Most of them rest on hypotheses which, though supported by some facts, are yet as a whole unsubstantiated. Tbe transmission of tiTbercle thi-ough the father is explained by the supposition that at the time of conception the bacilli are introduced withm the spermatozoa. The only argument assigned for this is that bacilli have been found in the testicles of men aff-ected with tubercle. Transmission through the mother, if coincident with concep- tion, requires the assumption that the ovum is infected before fertilisation, or on the passage into the womb. Intrauterine infection is also possible at a later date from the seminal flmd of the father or the blood of the mother. But all these suppositions are only makeshifts, and the want of direct proof for any of them has driven physicians to seek other explanations of the occur- rence of tubercle in families. The endeavour to replace the germinal and intrauterine by extrauterine infection is exemplified by the suggestion that has been made by See in his work on " Bacillary Tuberculosis," and by Riihle in his lecture before^the sixth Medical Congress, and in his article on "Tuberculosis m my Cvclopgedia. This suggestion deserves the greatest attention, were it on this ground alone, that we can do much more to free