103 INFECTION BY THE LUNGS. proved that in forced expiration the air goes back into the upper lobes, from the want at that part of the thorax of a contractile muscular wall. In this way, during the impulse of coughing, the air there remains stagnant, and for the moment is under high atmospheric pressure. But what is of most consequence to us at present is that the removal, by expectoration, of foreign bodies and micro-organisms from the apices is prevented by the regur- gitant current of air, and the contents of the bronchi are thrown right back into the alveoli. No doubt the spiral course of the smallest bronchioles, while it may prove to be in the apex a hindrance to the expulsion of dust and bacilli in expiration, may equally well prevent their being sucked in during inspiration; but it is to be noted that this feature in the anatomical structure of the lung is in any case distinctly unfavourable to the dislodg- ment of any foreign bodies which have once gained admission. I can therefore only express agreement with Hanau, when he says that the apices are the parts of the lungs which relatively present the most favourable conditions for the entrance of dust and micro-organisms in inspiration, and the most unfavourable conditions for the expulsion of these in expiration. If the tubercle bacilli once gain entrance into these regions, they pass into a state of rest which makes it possible for them to penetrate into the lymph-spaces in the epithelial layer, and fix themselves in the sub-epithelial cellular layer. Besides this mode of entrance into the system, there is no doubt that invasion may also take place by means of the lymph and blood currents, and we may conclude that this has been the case in the lungs when we find the walls of the lymph and blood vessels the first to be attacked. After its entrance into the tissues the bacillus, by means of its biological properties, of which as yet we do not know very much, produces an irritant effect, and, as a result of this, reactive inflam- mation. At this point the struggle between the living cell and the parasite begins, which has been the object of so much recent discussion. It was observed by Nageli that this struggle is the very process, in infective diseases, the issues of which are life, disease, and death. The outcome of the contest depends upon the vitality of the cell on the one hand, and the infective force of the schizomycete on the other. If the cell is victorious, the fungus is destroyed ere