372 LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE so-called 'pointes de feu. .Dujardin-Beaumetz"^ would have these pointes de feu arranged in parallel rows on both sides of the spine, and renewed every eight days. BalP^ thinks it sufl&cient to touch the skin very lightly at a few points with the actual cautery, but he finds that this requires to be repeated every two or three days. . Among the diseases in which counter-irritation is found suit- able, the first place is taken by those affections which originate from disease of the vertebrae. Charcot himself reports five or six cases of Pott's disease in which application of the cautery on both sides of the spinous processes at the seat of the deformity removed paralytic symptoms which had persisted for a long time. Althaus"* recently adopted this plan in a case of paraplegia from caries of the vertebree after other remedies had failed; the case completely recovered. Next in point of suitability for this line of treatment come the various forms of meningitis, especially chronic pachymeningitis. Last of all, simple chronic transverse myelitis. Benedicf^^ has recom- mended pointes de feu in the lightning pains of locomotor ataxia, applying them to the side of the spine about the level of origin of the affected nerve roots. As we now possess some very effective drugs, however, for these pains, there is not much opportunity for making use of Benedict's suggestion. IV.—Treatment by Dnigs. We cannot on the whole say very much at the present day in favour of the treatment of these diseases by drugs, and yet we cannot well do without them. Only a very small proportion has survived of all the drugs formerly used. Among those which have answered the tests of experience the preparation of silver, mercury, and iodine are distinctly the most important. .At present, for organic lesions of non-syphilitic origin, nitrate 'of silver enjoys the best reputation. Wunderlich,66 as is well known, was the first to recommend it, and, in addition to him, a host of eminent observers have reported favourably of its effects, especially when used in posterior sclerosis; the latter disease even at present forms the chief field for its use. ^ The dose varies in different authors, from a seventh of a gram to half a grain three times a day. I generally order a seventh of a grain three times a day in the form of pill to begin with, and