120 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. Marcliand experimentally investigated the most minute his- tological alterations. He demonstrated the development of giant- cells, viz., of genuine formations analogous to the giant-cells of tubercle, after introducing silk ligatures or hair, a discovery affirmed by many observers, who found also in man after many years, at a greater or lesser distance from the silk ligatures, isolated giant-cells. Marcliand made the interesting observation, that the formation of giant-cells is interfered with, and 'preventeOj hy, the jodoform, which adheres to the silk. As soon, however, as the jodoform has been absorbed, the development of giant-cells commences. In the healing-in of sponges, the giant-cells first form at the ])eri])hery coincidently with the development of fibro- blasts and connective tissue. As regards the structure of the capsule around foreign bodies formed by connective tissue in the peritoneal cavity, as well as in the subcutaneous cellular tissue, it has been stated that its external layers consist of concentrically arranged fibrous con- nective tissue, poor in cells, whilst the innermost, more vas- CLilarised layer, which is also very rich in cells, gradually loses its fibrillar structure and assumes an endothelial character. Bementiew introduced iron into the cavity of the knee-joint of a dog ; after three months it lay surrounded by coagulated fibrine still free in the otherwise healthy joint. Around nickel- plated nails which had been driven from the cavity of the knee- joint into the thigh-bone, the cartilage cells were found perfectly unaltered, but in the epiphysis there was red marrow devoid of fat, consisting of spherical cells and numerous osteoblasts in the place of the yellow marrow. He also states that the osseous tissue in the intermediate neighbourhood of the nails was more densely hardened. The same alterations were observed around a small shot healed-in in the medullary cavity. (The observation concern- ing the formation of osseous substance in the marrow is contradic- tory to Tauher, who experimented, as is stated, on older animals.) WaldenJmrg investigated the tissue alterations around parasites in the Cyprineas, and found mucous tissue around the homogeneous inner membrane. It appears from the above observations with regard to the difterent foreign bodies, if they remain long enough lodged in the body to speak of their healing-in,. 1st, that they produce no