7. LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANLMAL CELLS. conditions than the former views, and soon found general accept- ance. What was more natural than to search for a uniform cause which obviously manifested itself in the disintegration of the tissue fluids in the injured and inflamed tissues ? In this instance the term " disinter/ration " (" Umsetzung ") was accepted in its widest sense. I considered it as a series of changes, the starting-point of which was a most minute disturbance of nutri- tion called forth by a slight solution of continuity, passing on to suppurative solution of the tissue, and terminating in gan- grene and putrefaction. Not only quantitative but also qualita- tive differences were presupposed in this process. The absorption of the products of disintegration caused general disturbances in the organism, mostly fever, occasionally also dangerous condi- tions of poisoning without concomitant fever. Thus originated such terms as aseptic fever without reaction during the healing process, simple traumatic fever, suppurative fever, septic fever, sepsis with collapse, &c. Then also a uniform poison, by the absorption of which these conditions were called forth, was searched after, and was pre- sumed to originate in purulent matters (Panum's and Bercjmann's " sepsin"). But when the conviction became more and more generally accepted that putrefaction, like fermentation, is brought on by very minute living organisms, and when Pasteur, by his important investigations in this direction, by new methods opened new roads, contrary to those of Liehig, whose authority as a chemist had hitherto seemed to me of greater weight and more acceptable than that of Pasteur, I could not, and even now cannot, discard the opinion that every organic tissue, as soon as life is ex- tinguished, or is materially interfered with, must in accordance with its surroundings enter upon a nev/ mode of change of matter, as it is certainly unable to maintain itself unaltered under these totally different conditions ; there cannot, therefore, in my opinion, exist also a transformation of decaying and decayed tissue without the influence of microbes. The absorp- tion of such kinds of products of decomposition of diseased, i.e., decayed tissues, was, according to my former views, the sole cause of primary traumatic and inflammatory fever. If this, moreover, led to the death of tissue—to gangrene—then the microbes, which in wounds and other focuses of inflammation