ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 234 monograph^ (1874) defended the myopathic origin with great learning and acuteness ; according to him the disease was a chronic inflammation of the muscles, a chronic progressive poly- myositis. But Friedreich's weapons were not sharp enough ; he based on a series of cases that was sadly in need of proper sifting and contained a good deal that was foreign to the subject, and his microscopic work was not equal to the require- ments even of that time. So the triumph of the neurotic theory was temporarily assured, and the practical unanimity with which it was accepted is evident from Kussmaul's essay" in the present collection (No. 54, 1873). Even the very remarkable and now thoroughly understood case published by Lichtheira^ in 1878 made no change in public opinion. During all this time, of course, " progressive muscular atrophy" was acceiDted as a clinical unity, and though much was taken from it as not belonging to it, yet there was a very distinct tendency to extend its limits in various directions. The psendo-hypertrophic paralysis of children, which had been first described by Griesinger and afterwards more exactly b}- Duchenne, and which certainly at the first glance appeared to be far enough removed from it, was even by Friedreich brought into association and viewed as essentially identical with it. Ley den s (1876), however, wdth true clinical instinct, in his treatise on Diseases of the Spinal Cord, made a proposal to separate from the rest under the term "hereditary" certain forms of progressive muscular atrophy which occur in famihes. He gave, though with insufficient exactness, the clinical features of the variety, and even then directed attention to a certain like- ness which it bore to pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis. Moebius" (1879) went still further, and without any hesitation brought the latter, the pseudo-hypertrophic form, which also frequently occurs in families, into one group with Leyden's. But these views failed at first to find general acceptance, evidently from the fact that neither clinically nor anatomically were they laid down with sufficient precision. In the meantime the advance in the study of the nervous system had succeeded in separating from progressive muscular atrophy the following : the results of acute anterior poliomyelitis, the chronic forms of poliomyelitis, chronic multiple neuritis, the atrophies following joint affections, syringomyelia, and the various