HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 188 TREATMENT. Since John Rollo made the important discovery at the close oi' the 18th century that in every case of diabetes the consumption of sweet and starchy foods greatly increased the quantity of sugar excreted, it was thought that by simply withdrawing these articles of diet the disease could be cured. The object of the physician was to hit the right choice of food and of beverage, so as to prevent the entrance of as little carbo-hydrate material as possible. The conviction was soon reached that although the patient's condition could be much ameliorated, still complete- cure could not be attained. Now, alas, we must confess with regret that even after the lapse of a century we are still very far from the desired goal, and at present have no well founded hope of ever reaching it. Modern treatment, however, has certainly been able materially to alleviate the condition of the patient as well as to considerably prolong his life. The following fundamental principle of universal value to medical men has been the greatest acquisition in later years: no routine treatment, but each case to be treated in strict accordance with the form of diabetes it presents. Of the numerous ones that have been constructed analytically and synthetically none has hitherto proved to be universally applicable; for what may be useful in one case, may be harmful in another. This holds good, not only in medicinal, but also in hygienic and dietetic treatment. For even though it be beyond dispute that anti-diabetic diet, consisting of vegetable and animal products which contain the least possible amount of sugar and of sugar-forming substances, plays the most important part of all in the treatment of the disease—which moreover in the great majority of cases is of distinct benefit—still cases are met with in practice in which a rigid diet is not only of no use, but is absolutely harmful, does not relieve symptoms, but actually aggravates them. This is chiefly true of the graver form of the disease, but especially so when prodromata of coma are present {v. supra). If a less rigid diet be allowed, e.g., bread, vegetables, fruit, although the amount of sugar may be increased the patient will feel considerably better, and may recover to a certain extent. In any case, the improvement of the general health and nutrition of the patient is of the first importance rather