DIABETES MELLITUS. —^— It is not so very long since all those pathological conditions in which polyuria was accompanied by the excretion of sugar in sufficient quantity as to be recognised chemically or by polarisa- tion were known under the name of Diabetes me Hit us, to distinguish them from Diabetes insipidus, the leading sj^mp- tom of which is also Polyuria. During the early decades of our century, Diabetes mellitus was still considered an extremely rare disease, and many a phy- sician had become grey in his practice without having observed a single case. It was only when Claude Bernard, by means of lois now famous " Diabetic Puncture," brought the disease within the pale of experimental research, and also owing to the improved chemical methods of discovering grape sugar becoming more generally known, that observations upon the excretion of sugar accumulated to an unexpected extent. It was found that not only a number of different operations (e.g., puncture of medulla oblongata, lesion of the lowest cervical and first dorsal ganglion on both sides, section of the medulla oblongata, and of the coeliac plexus, &c.), but also injuries (such as injuries to the skull, concussion of the spine, contusion of the liver, and other abdominal organs, &c.) are capable of producing a discharge of sugar into the urine. Further, it was noticed in a number of diseases that sugar appeared at times, e.g., before or after an attack of epilepsy, in ague, cerebral disease, sciatica, gout, angina pectoris, neurasthenia, &c., and also during con- valescence after exhausting and febrile diseases. Again, in poisoning by curare, chloral, sulphuric acid, arsenic, alcohol, carbon, monoxide, &c., in fact, after simple injection of salt water into the blood, sugar is excreted. Lastly, in pregnant and suckling women, in persons who consume an extraordinary amount of sugar and starchy foods, a small amount of sugar appears at times in the urine. Hence it was customary to speak of a Diabetes artificialis, D. symptomaticus, D. traumaticus, D.