118 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. very vascular connective tissue, much resembling granulation tissue, rich in cells, but poor in fibres. Beyond this thin layer there was firm fibrous tissue. He observed between the fibrillas of a single silk thread small cells embedded in a transparent substance. Around a sj)onge encapsuled for eight months in the abdominal cavity there was likewise an interior, more injected, and an external firm whitish-yellow layer. Here and there the tissue around the sponge undergoing absorption, resembled organised exudative masses or coagulated fibrine; some particles of the sponge were entirely surrounded by, and interwoven with, vascular granulation tissue. In another experiment catgut had healed-in in a dog six months after the operation; there was at the places concerned young granulation tissue enclosed in tissue composed of irregular fibrous cells—that was the site of the catgut. In a fifth case an elastic ligature had healed-in; in this dog five months after the operation, it was found enclosed in tissue resembling that of the above-described cases, with this difference, however, that numerous crystals and yellow particles, similar to those on the rough surface of the ligature itself, could be recognised within it. Halkuachs draws the conclusion that catgut is absorbed and replaced by well vascularised fibrous tissue after six months ; that sponges are broken up, silk is encapsuled and unravelled, and elastic ligatures are likewise encapsuled; that the bulk of these objects has decreased in consequence of compression by the living tissue. If an organic substance be enclosed, inflammation sets in, and with an increased flow of fluid, luxuriant granulation and new formation of vascular tissue take place until all the interstices are filled up. In the most minute interstices this is brought about by the tissue-fluids containing cells. No suppuration follows; the foreign body is broken up into most delicate particles (as demonstrated for silk by Lister), these are carried away by the flow of blood or fluids, or by the wandering cells, and the cicatricial tissue resulting from it probably disappears at last. Bosenherger, who introduced sometimes fresh, sometimes dead tissue into the abdominal cavity, observed that dead tissue is enclosed within three to four days by a capsule from which cells immigrate into the foreign tissue ; he frequently found giant-cells between the capsule and the foreign body, of which he supposes, agreeing with Langhanns, that they act as absorbent organs.