122 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. These apparently digressive statements may indicate the stand- point from which the effect of the foreign bodies remaining mside the body ought to be considered and estimated. A light, chemically indifferent, small foreign body introduced into a perfectly quiet tissue calls forth no reaction perceptible to the naked eye, as is shown by the behaviour of fine superficial sutures. With the increased size, hardness, and weight of the foreign body, and with the increase of movements, and the fluctuation of pressure of the encompassing living tissue, trau- matic inflammation and erosion around the foreign body is gradually brought about, exactly as occurs after external injuries on the surface of the body. As secondary formation of wheals and loss of substance may result on the skin, so we have to expect exactly opposite alterations in the interior of the organism; provided that no kind of tissue alteration takes place, as has been asserted by some authors about needles, and in rare instances also for other foreign bodies, especially as regards the connective tissue, the epidermis, and even the brain and the cartilages. Personal Observations. Histological investigations on the encapsulation of foreign hodies. The older statements on the alterations of the different tissues, on the development of wheals and cvsts, on the formation of giant-cells, and the origin of the endothelium in cysts, may be completed by my own observations and investigations. The following up of the observations of the healing-in of foreign bodies was suggested by a case in the clinical ambulance of Prof. Billroth, at Vienna, four years ago. A lad presented himself with a thin-walled cystic tumour, of about the size of a pigeon's egg, in the bend of the elbow; the skin over it was supple and movable. An injury was inflicted by a piece of a broken window-pane several months previously. The small wound had soon healed by first intention, the tumour gradually formed, and only caused unimportant inconvenience by its size. The smooth-walled cyst was emptied of its clear serous contents by an incision, and a perfectly loose, evidently movable, sharply pointed glass-splinter was exti'acted. This observation was followed by a series of similar cases, of )?vhich only those in which glass lodged for many months in the