PEYER ON KNI'HESIS NOCrURNA IN MALES. 333 myself have published notes of a case in my article on Phospha- turia (v. Volkmann's Collection, No. ooG). I^astly, incontinence of urine is often one of the first symptoms of diabetes mellitus. AVe seldom observe it as a reflex affection of the alimentary c-anal, e.g., from the presence of worms. Another class includes such children who are ill-nourished and strumous, or sluggish and dull children, whose mental calibre is generally below the average. At times children who are physically weak, but men- tally active, suffer from this affection. Sir H. Thompson says it is well known that a child of active and excitable temperament often shows during sleep more muscular movement than adults or children of quiet disposition. This may become so marked as to approach somnambulism, and it is in connection with such conditions that the bladder is often voided involuntarily. There are, on the other hand, children who enjoy excellent laealth, mentally and bodily, who suffer from this afiSiction. According to the last mentioned authority, incontinence may occur for the first time under the influence of some periodic disturbance of the function of micturition, or of the nervous system, and simply recurs through force of habit long after the primary cause has disappeared. I should now like to add to these various views my own experience about one cause, which in my opinion is by no means rare, and which in fact is often the source of the most intractable cases of enuresis nocturna. Case I.—In the spring of 1885 I was consulted, as family medical man, on account of an intelligent boy Eetat. 7 addicted to wetting the bed for some time past, though previously he had been free from this trouble. Examination of the boy revealed nothing at all to account for it; his pale and ana3mic look rather struck me. The mother informed me that for some time he had been very irritable, could not bear his brothers and sisters, and liked best to be alone. Further, his schoolmasters had been com- plaining for a- long time of distraction, and want of attention on his part. I attributed the incontinence to an overwrought nervous system and to aniiemia, and this latter in turn to over-pressure at school. After a long stay in the mountains during the summer, lie returned very much worse. He wetted the bed much more