LoWENFIiLD ON KECENT ADVANCES IN THE 350 the different species of the same genus, and that young animals, as a rule, possess it in larger measure than old. Among mammals the power attaches chiefl}'^, if not exclusively, to the nerve fibres, and up to the present time, at any rate, restoration of ganglionic cells has not been observed. On the other hand, Masius and Vanlair have observed such a new- formation in frogs, and Brown-Sequard in pigeons.* Observations on the human subject are in essential agreement with these results. They show that both traumatic lesions of the cord and alterations produced by disease may be recovered from ; in the case of the latter, however, that the capacity for recovery varies inversely as the extent of the disease, and that, further, the individuality of the patient is of the greatest consequence, affecting both the commencement of the healing process and its ultimate amount. It is of particular importance to observe that functional by no means presupposes structural recovery. We have several cases recorded showing the persistence of considerable anatomical changes side by side with the disappearance of functional disorders, that is to say, practical recovery.! Anatomically, all that has been ascertained is merely in favour of regeneration of nerve fibres. Narrow fibres with dark borders have been found * These results refer, as I have remarked, only to tlie cicatricial tissue formed in the cord after incisions and loss of substance, and not to the degeneration of nerve-fibres. In regard to the latter, Kahler's " experiments on dogs gave nega- tive results. By crushing a number of the posterior roots he produced degene- ration of the posterior columns, the fibres of which, in the main, are formed of direct continuations of the fibres of the posterior roots. In the animals killed a congiderable time after the operation there was certainly regeneration of the extra-medullary part of the posterior roots, but on the other hand no sign whatever of regeneration in the intra-medullary portion. Kahler thinks that he is at liberty to conclude from these observations that in systemic diseases of the cord the restoration of disordered functions can only follow from the opening up of vicarious conducting paths, and not from recovery on the part of the nervous elements. This scarcely appears to me a just inference. Kahler's facts only permit us to say that there must certainly be a distinct difference between the capacity for regeneration possessed by the peripheral nerves andthat possessed by the systemic fibres of the cord. But from the negative results of three experiments on animals of one particular species to deny altogether that there is any capacity for regeneration on the part of these cord fibres is hardly correct, all the more so as we have observations on the human subject which distinctly favour an opposite conclusion. As to the question how far systemic fibres which are merely morbidly affected, and which have not yet disappeared, can be restored, Kahler's facts teach nothing. t Schultze,'- Fox,'^ and Benedict,'* have recorded cases of this kind where sclerosis of the posterior columns Avas the lesion.