BILLROTH ON THP: MUTUAL ACTION OF 26 is already forming. Muscles and nerves probably are soon arrested in their growth, but the young connective tissue with its vessels (granulation tissue) sprouts into the blood coagulum, and only stops after it has grown from both sides into one another. In the meanwhile all the coagulum will have become liquefied and, with the exception of a few remains of pigment, will have become absorbed. The young (inflammatory) new formation, the granulation tissue, will now at last also come to rest, and pass into the permanent state of a cicatrix. In this manner, in a roundabout way, and of course with loss of time, the same result has been attained as if no foreign body had ever been interposed between the surfaces of the wound. This process, however, may be frustrated by the amount of the extravasation, or by the defective formative activity of the insinuating young tissue. The vegetative energy of the granulation tissue may sooner or later become exhausted, long before it has grown into the blood coagulum. The granulation tissue is arrested in its formation, it is converted into very vascular cicatricial tissue, and now yields also a small quantity of transudation, by which the coagulum is again rendered richer in fluids (if perhaps complete coagulation had not already taken place from the beginning). In this manner is achieved the incapsulation of the extravasated Uood, which, like other kinds of longer standing exudations and secretions, becomes more and more rich in albumen or mucin, to such a degree that altogether it can no longer, or only very slowly, be absorbed. Thus we now have a " Hcematoma,'' an " iTicapsulated Uood cyst," before us. If a non-ahsorhahle foreign hody (glass, porcelain, iron, lead, wood, &c.) is embedded in the tissue, it acts in the first line by solution of continuity as a formative stimulus. Let us suppose the most favourable case, viz., that the foreign body is pe]*fectly free from pus cocci, moreover, that it has not carried with itself into the tissue such cocci during its entrance, then its formative stimulus will be but very slight, and will in most cases soon entirely cease. The foetal connective and vascular tissues which have developed around it very soon will be arrested in then- growth, and will be converted into cicatricial tissue. The foreign hody will he incaimilated. According to Professor F. A. Salzer's investigations, the following modifications will now take place. The foreign body by its own weight presses upon the tissue, it