124 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. inner surface treated with a solution of 5 per 1,000 of nitrate of silver, washed with a solution of 7 per cent, of common kitchen salt, and hardened in alcohol, after which sections of the interior wall were made. The microscopical examination of the horizontal and diagonal sections, stained with picro-carmine, showed the external layers of the cyst-wall, consisting of fibrous connective tissue, blending towards the inner surface into a more vascular tissue, poorer in fibres but richer in cells. The cells of the con- nective tissue increased in size and roundness, so that at the inner surface eventually they reached a diameter of 30 millimetres, but in general they were of different sizes; they varied from spherical to pear-shapes, and possessed larger elliptical nuclei, some of them even 2—3. They were arranged in endothelial manner, and lay so closely together that no interstitial fibrous tissue between them could be seen. The staining by the silver process, although somewhat diffused, still rendered recognisible distinct cell-borders. It appears from the vertical section as if the most superficial cells, i.e., those situated towards the free surface, did not possess any margin, so that the body of the cell seemed directly to pass over into a substance dotted with silver granules. Close under the endothelioid layer there was a very vascular stratum. (8ee Tab. I., fig. I.) (6) A young man, A. 0. (Amb. 0. B. No. 2699, f. 1889), fell four weeks previously into a shop window. The wound at the right wrist-joint, situated towards the dorsal side of the epiphysis of the radius, and which bled profusely, was painless, but later on, he stated, it suppurated slightly. He feels in the centre of it a circumscribed hardness. When he presented himself, the wound was covered with a crust of blood, and 1 cm. above it, the point of a foreign body lodged under the skin could be felt. An incision revealed a glass-splinter 2 cm. in length, lying under the superficial fascia in a cystic space, which communicated with the sheath of the tendon of the external radial muscle. The somewhat closely fitting ccqmde of connective tissue contained a small quantity of jjttre serous fluid. No trace of pus, no com- munication, altogether no connection with the small suppurating external wound. The capsule of connective tissue was hardened first in sublimed picric acid, and then in alcohol. The vertical sections, stained with hasmatoxyline or lithion carmine, showed in the external layers fibrous connective tissue; the cells,