293 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. example, lie learnt masturbation. A year after he began to suHbr, as a consequence of this vicious habit, from headache, which was chiefly frontal and worse in the morning on rising. Although lie gave up the practice after a few years, nocturnal emissions kept on frequently occurring, and at last were, towards his 20tli year, of almost nightly occurrence. Headache became more troublesome, general lassitude and weakness were noticeable. Shortly after 20, he went to Marseilles, and there he had sexual intercourse about once a week on the average. Nocturnal emissions in consequence almost ceased, headache also became much less troublesome. On the other hand, other symptoms gradually appeared, the bowels became sluggish, and he suffered almost daily more or less from heartburn and asthma. The latter chiefly occurred during the day whilst sitting at the desk. He felt an oppression on the chest, which gradually became severer and prevented him from drawing his breath. He was then obliged to get up and pace the room, in great anxiety, when all of a sudden he succeeded in inspiring, whereupon the asthma and anxiety disappeared, only however to recur after a time. During the night he was, as a rule, perfectly free. In the course of a year the affection grew considerably worse, and headache reappeared; failing memory and general debility induced Mr. G. to return to Switzerland. It should also be mentioned that, towards the close of his stay in Marseilles, he got gonorrhoea, which however disappeared fairly quickly, leaving behind a tendency to nocturnal emissions. In addition, diurnal emissions —without erection of the penis—occurred, brought on by mere stimulation of fancy. There was a constant desire to pass water, with a burning sensation along the urethra, and later on headache was often accompanied by giddiness. This was the condition I saw the patient in when he was about 221 years old. He was a big-boned, thin, and anemic looking man. Physical examination revealed nothing abnormal in the chest or elsewhere; the urine showed traces of urethritis, not quite cured. At times, especially in the urine passed in the morning and during a difficult stool, a fairly large number of spermatozoa were detected. The treatment was purely local. In the course of three months Mr. G. felt quite well, and obtained a post in Italy. After having remained perfectly well for two years, he got another