TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 359 duration of 5 to 10 minutes. Heller (Teplitz) applies in tabes, to begin with, baths of 5 to 8 minutes, and only rises gradually to 10 to 12 minutes. Voigt (Rehme-Oeynhausen) prescribes simple and thermal brine baths of 5 to 15 minutes. Grrcidel (Nauheim), in tabes, brine baths of 10 minutes (rarely 15). I myself, up to the present time, have used artificial brine baths of never more than 10 minutes' duration. I may here remark, by the way, that we require to pay some attention to the proportion which the water in this latter kind of bath bears to the salt or brine. A brine bath, it is well known, should properly speaking contain at least 2 per cent, of salt (many authorities say -3 per cent.) ; 60 gallons of water, which would about fill an ordinaiy tub, would require in this way 12 lbs. of salt. If any one is unwilling to begin with this proportion, it is at any rate advisable to rise to it in the course of time. When we come to consider the special indications for all these difierent forms of bath, we must acknowledge that there is still a good deal of obscurity here. But the choice of a bath, or the choice of any particular kind of bath treatment, does not depend simply on the form of disease from which the patient is sufiering. Other considerations that must be taken account of are : the duration of the disease, the prominence of particular symptoms, the constitvition and general state of nutrition, the complications that may be present, the season of the year, the place from which the patient comes, and the patient's pecuniary circumstances. It is certain, it appears to me, that, at any rate in a large number of the cases that are capable of improvement, the end may be attained in several ways, and not merely by one particular form of bath treatment. The cold water cure, at any rate, admits of very wide application. There is, according to my experience, no form of spinal disease for which it is not suited. The number of modifications which the various steps in the method admit of, allow of its being adapted to a very great variety of affections. And one great merit it has, is that it is applicable all the year round, whereas the usefulness of most of the spas is limited to one particular season. There are, however, often enough individuals who are unable to bear even the very mildest parts of the treatment, and who would come to harm if it were persisted with. This is most commonly the case with patients who suffer from intense feelings of cold in the extremities, and