354 LiiWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE the cord, in addition to those nervous elements that are markedly- diseased, there are others where the process has not gone so far, and where the alterations are in part still merely molecular. The latter are capable of recovery. Bringing them back into sound working order and strengthening those which are still intact give us the conditions in which the functions of those elements that are destroyed or are hopelessly diseased can be taken over by other nervous structures. In this way, to a greater or less extent; we gain compensation. Even advanced cases then present a fruitful field for therapeutic endeavour; but while this is so, a comparison of the results obtained on the whole with those which we get in cases of recent standing, makes it perfectly clear that jprincvpiis ohsta" must be our guiding principle in chronic spinal disease. This is not the place for a description of the common features in the treatment of all the chronic spinal diseases. The treat- ment of chronic structural disease is in several important respects different from that of the so-called functional afiections. I shall therefore in what follows first take up the treatment of the former group, and afterwards add the necessary observations in regard to the functional affections. A. Treatment of Chronic Structural Disease ok the Spinal Cord. I.—Eyd/ro-therajjeutic and halneo-therapeutic treatment. Among the remedies at our command for chronic organic disease of the spinal cord the external application of water in its various forms plays a very prominent part. Within the last fifteen years this method has unquestionably made a great advance. No doubt our knowledge of the efiects of medicinal waters, and of the various ways of employing water, is still very fragmentary, and the indications for the use of these remedies correspondingly uncertain. A great deal of careful observation, however, has been expended on the methods, and we are in possession of certain outlines which practically are of great importance. The first question which naturally arises is. What are the kinds of baths in general which are suitable in these diseases ? Practical experience has taught us something of value in answer to this. The baths that are useful are, in the first place,