222 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. current, more evident on tlie left than on the rie;ht. In the completely paralysed nerves and totally atrophied muscles of the left arm and shoulder and left half of the abdomen this has gone on to complete loss of reaction to either current. No trace of the reaction of degeneration. K. CI. C. everywhere greater than A. CI. C. Lightning-like contraction in the paretic muscles. Idio- mnscular contraction easily brought out in the atrophied muscles. . Of subjective sensations patient complains of a feeling of extreme muscular weakness all over, a feeling of numbness around the body and in the left thigh, at times cramps in the left lumbar region, and on one occasion pain in the left shoulder. Otherwise he was free of pain. Appetite good and bowels regular, always free of fever, and in good spirits. On the 10th March patient left the hospital essentially improved, having nsed over If ounces of iodide of potash and nearly 2h ounces of mercury ointment. In all the paralysed muscles traces of contractility were showing themselves. Even the left upper eyelid could be lifted a little, though always with the help of the frontalis muscle. The unilateral sweating on the right side of the face was still present. In the folloAving weeks, under treatment at his own house, he made tolerably rapid progress, and from the middle of April onwards patient w^as engaged once more in his business. It is of the greatest value to keep striking cases like this under observation over a long period. Unfortunately we know from experience that severe cases of cerebro-spinal syphilis, almost always in a longer or shorter time, and in spite of the most skilful and energetic treatment, relapse, and ultimately succumb to the malady. It was thus specially interesting to follow up this instance of relative recovery from an unusually severe attack of the kind. The patient, at my request, willingly allowed himself to be visited again in April, 1888, eight years after the illness. The result of my examination surprised me in more than one particular. His general condition is in every respect satisfactory. He is engaged in his very extensive business from morning to night, mounts stairs without difficulty, and walks for hours at a time. He is in a restaurant for several hours every evening, eats largely, and drinks freely both of beer and wine. But in spite of this capacity for exertion, the examination brought to light many and serious traces of the illness he had passed through. The head is now held upright. The spinal column, however, with the whole trunk, has a bend to the left, and on account of this he has worn lor HCime years a corset with arm supports, which he finds very