224 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. be kept for any length of time. Appetite and bowels always normal. This case—a typical picture of syphilitic cerebro-spinal men- ingitis with multiple root-neuritis—showing in its features a remarkable agreement with those of Buttersack (Archiv f. Psychiatrie, xvii. p. 603) and Kahler (Prag. Zeitschrift f. Heil- kunde, 1887, 1), both of which ended fatally. Affection of the substance of the pons and medulla was from the very first by no means out of the question. But the chief element was the atrophic paralysis arising from the lepto-meningitic root-neuritis. In our case this had reached a greater degree and a more exten- sive distribution than has ever previously been recorded, at any rate in instances where recovery followed. This gives quite a peculiar value to the observation, for it shows the extent to^ which the lesion may go, and yet be capable of relative cure if an energetic antisyphilitic treatment is commenced in time, and further, it teaches that such cures may be permanent. That th(^ cure m'ay fall short of being complete is merely the rule enforced by all previous experience. The subsequent development of a kind of atypical tabes is particularly interesting. The symptoms were, some degree of ataxia, absence of the knee-jerks, impotence, and partial immo- bility of the pupils. ^ ' Such cases of syphilitic cerebro-spmal memngitis with multiple root-neuritis are quite easy to diagnose. The flying pains at the commencement, the rigidly upright position of the spme, the symptoms indicating implication of the base of the cerebrum, and the spinal roots, are all characteristic enough. _ More diffi- culty arises in the differential diagnosis between a circumscribed spinal meningitis, for example, meningeal gumma, and syphilis of the vertebrae, as in the latter case also we have local tender- ness and rigidity of the spinal column. A swelling of one or more vertebra with local tenderness probably always means syphilis of the vertebra, but of course if the growth is m the vertebral canal there may be no swelling. We niust, besides not overlook the fact that gummatous periostitis m the vertebral canal may set up a morbid process in the --inge^' finally even in the substance of the cord itself. But these syphUitic lesions in the spinal canal are under ai^; circum- sLnces not common, and of the various locahsations here