ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA 62 tinguish almost as many forms of neurasthenia as there are organs in the human body, for the majority may become the seat of neurasthenic disturbances. Quite a number of subdivisions have therefore been made—neurasthenia cordis, enterica, sexualis, &c.—but no real advantage is to be expected from such tabulation. It will suffice if I acquaint you with the most important pheno- mena, and lay particular stress on those points which are of special diagnostic significance. The cerebral disturhances take the first rank among the symp- toms, not only because they are by far the most frequent, but because they involve the greatest amount of damage to the activity of the individual. The most important of these cerebral symptoms are the following:— Incapacity for mental tvork. Here we immediately find count- less modifications: mental impotence in every department, or in that one well-defined direction only, in which excessive calls have been made on the brain by professional activity—for example, incapacity for arithmetic in an overworked clerk, for preaching in a neurasthenic clergyman, &c. The extent to which functional power is lost may also vary. The disease may announce itself first of all in a mere lack of staying poiver at intellectual work. The brain of a gifted neurasthenic may yet display a high degree of productivity, for originality, clearness of conception, and rich- ness of imagination, are quite compatible with liability to rapid exhaustion of nerve-power. Beard draws a very pretty comparison between such a brain and a battery of small elements with slight potential power and slight internal resistance, which can develop momentarily an enormous actual power, but quickly become in- constant and prematurely useless. In such cases the loss of working power is only too often combated by stimulants, and therefore alcohol and morphia play an important part among these patients. They have an oppres- sive feeling of mental weakness and low-spiritedness, and it is but natural that they should seek to remedy this unpleasant condition so as to be able to discharge their business. It goes without saying that the primary lesion is not removed by such means, which are merely the introduction of fresh sources of damage, and that the easily-exhausted brain is still further iniured. It is the fact, however, that in North America neuras-