LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANLMAL CELLS. 17 require rest from time to time, whicli is ofi'ered them in nature by the variations of temperature and of the amount of moisture in the air and the soil; they perhaps moreover require a frequent change of nutritive medium in order not to degenerate. Of the Spirochietes, the cause of recurrent fever, it must be concluded from all the symptoms that their vegetative life in the human blood is only of but a few days' duration, after which a state of rest sets in, which again after the lapse of a few days is followed by a new period of growth. Similar conditions may be the cause also of many other strictly typical zymotic diseases. Gardeners assert that old seed grains germinate much later than young ones under perfectly identical conditions. The like may also be the case with the resting-spores (" Zygospores") of microbes. In short, the conditions of vegetable life, of its vigorous or feeble growth (with which the virulence is essentially related), its degeneration and its decay, are so manifold and dependent on so many circumstances, that we shall still for a long time necessarily be engaged in their stud}^. Immense as has been the progress of our knowledge of the microbes in regard to their pathogenic properties, we shall not possess an exhaus- tive comprehension of their nature before we have acquired further information in botanical, anatomical, and physiological directions. Then only many an obscure fact may be cleared up, which at present remains unexplained, as to the absolute and relative immunity of single genera of animals, of single varieties and single individuals. We have now well-nigh accustomed ourselves to consider the microbes as destructive enemies of the animal cells and their deriva- tives, the tissues, and to recognise their peculiar different patho- genic eflFects in this direction. But, as already mentioned, a perfectly new fact has recently come to our knowledge, viz., that the microbes may act upon the animal cells not only as destructive, hut also as formative stimuli. Formative stimulus and formative irritabiliti/ ! These notions had first been developed by Virchoiv in his ingenious paper, " Irritation and irritability " (" Reizung und Reizbarlieit," Arch, fiir pathol. Anat., vol. xiv.). Our present generation cannot realise the impression which this and many similar compre- hensive critical treatises of Virchow made at the time upon the younger generation whom he associated with his researches and c