BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 28 that very soon after seqiiestrotomy a partial absorption of the newly formed bony masses at the same time with sclerosis of the remaining parts generally follows. I observed a neci'osis caused by acute osteomyelitis of the whole tibial diaphysis accompanied by purulent softening of both epiphysial cartilages. The seques- trum naturally very soon being loosened, I extracted it in order to diminish the suppuration. In this case only the somewhat thickened periosteum was but slightly ossified, and this very inconsiderable formation of bone also disappeared after the removal of the sequestrum, and there remained an incurable pseudo-arthrosis, owing to the small amount of bone formed from the remaining articular end where no ossification whatever took place at the greater portion of the diaphysis. I now have to treat of the conditions under which a formative stimulus manifests itself at a defective cutaneous surface. The results from the loss of skin by lacerations, charring, freezing, excision, &c., are that the granulation tissue is exposed on the surface without any chance of ever uniting with the opposite tissue. In what manner is this loss of substance to be replaced, and permanent cicatricial tissue formed ? What becomes of the tissue after the formative stimulus of the solution of continuity has ceased to act? Every surgeon knows that this process is terminated by the formation of an investment of epidermis which, commencing at the periphery of the loss of substance, gradually continues over the granulating surface. Already the earlier observations on the healing process of superficial wounds under a scab have shown that the formation of granulations under the scab is very restricted; that under particular circumstances the formation of epidermis continues also under the scab, and that after the casting off of the latter a complete cicatrix appears. Similar processes have in recent times likewise been observed in extensive losses of substance, and have been obtained by the exclusion of vegetations of pus-cocci, i.e., by a perfectly suc- cessful antiseptic treatment. If we, however, combine the older and the more recent observations, we still find that under certain circumstances the granulation tissue will develop with peculiar luxuriance; in other words, that the formative stimulus of the solution of con- tinuity sometimes persists. We know that the conversion of granulations into cicatricial connective tissue only takes place in