36 BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF well as the question of the existence of individual immunity and predisposition). We may well regard the acute miliary tubercle with its rapid lymphoid transformation as the one end, and the fibrous tubercle in which scarcely an appreciable formation of lymphoid tissue takes place, as the other end of the series. The formative stimulus of the tulercle detritus, of the yellow tubercle, is at any rate but very slight. We may observe, e.g., that in bone an eburnified shell is formed around the tubercle, which, however, does not give rise to extensive sclerosis or ex- tensive osteophytes over a large area except in the case of the formation of a sequestrum and the immigration of pus cocci, which then again calls forth a new formation of granulations around, and purulent softening of the tubercle, an accident which also seems again to support the view that a certain degree of formative stimulus may likewise be attributed to the pus cocci. That the tubercle bacilli themselves are able directly to stimulate the suppurative process in a material degree is very improbable, according to the observations which we have gathered up to this date, although the opportunity for the emigration of leucocytes must be facilitated by the formative stimulus on the vascular walls, and the transformation of the latter into soft protoplasm. One point more ought here to be mentioned. A copious rapid development of a crop of tubercles leads in the majority of cases to the formation of fluid sero-fibrinous exudations. These are genuine exudations, not merely transudations, like those in the pleural and peritoneal cavities during the development of tumours, especially of carcinomas and sarcomas. Acute tuber- culosis of the synovial membrane, of the pleura and the meninges, is almost always followed by exudations which cannot be dis- tinLuished from others in acute inflammations. Consequently, tubercle bacilli, when acting with exceptional vegetative energy, may call forth nutritive disturbances which seem entirely iden- tical with inflammations acutely produced by staphylo- and strepto-cocci. At the same time also pja-ogenic matters are formed, the absorption of which gives rise to fever and even general septic typhoid disease. Though we must admit that tubercle bacilli alone will not produce all the acute phlegmonous processes, blennorrhceas, and purulent exudations, at least not primarily, still, according to the already stated facts, we know of no other kind of bacilli or cocci