llOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 174 time, and the urine passed at different times during the day examined at least twice a week. Although exact proof of grape sugar in the urine can only be determined l3y chemical examination, yet its physical characters afford several grounds for inferring its presence. Chief among these is its high specific gravity, for whereas normal urine has a sp. gr. of 1015 to 1020, which when concentrated from diminished imbibition of fluids may rise from 1024 to 1026, diabetic urine may show a sp. gr. of 1045 and upwards. In many pathological conditions, such as high fever, lead colic, acute Bright's disease, &c., the urine is laden with uric acid, but the specific gravity is never as high as that of diabetic urine. "Where the urinometer, which is usually first employed, shows a very high specific gravity, strong suspicion of the presence of sugar is aroused. This speedy and easy method of examination is not only of relative^ great value as a qualitative test, but, as we shall see later on, may be used to estimate the quantity of sugar. The colour often offers another mode of recognition, this is, from the pre- sence of polyuria, pale yellow with a greenish tinge, and some- times as clear as water. When such pale urine has also a high specific gravity, there is no doubt about the presence of sugar, for with the exception of uric acid there is no other substance in urine able to raise it so much, and dilute urine contains only little uric acid. As a rule it is clear; after long standing acid fermentation readily takes place, and it becomes cloudy owing to fermentation products. The reaction of diabetic urine is almost without exception acid, and this persists for a very long time in spite of the large amount of ammonia present, and the constant use of alkalies. As is well known, normal urine becomes alkaline very soon after the administration of alkaline waters. The odour is peculiarly aromatic, smelling of ha,j, and when fermentation begins, of sour wine. The taste is distinctly sweet when a fair amount of sugar is present. AVhite spots (deposit of sugar, on the evaporation of urine) are not unfrequently seen, when it is abundant, in the immediate neighbourhood of the urethra, on the linen, and even inside the chamber vessel. The sugar excreted in diabetes is termed grape sugar, starch sugar, glucose, or dextrose; it is characterised by its solubility in water and alcohol, by its property of undergoing fermentation,