ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 235 secondary spinal amyotrophies. With all this curtailment, how- ever, there was still a residuum ofconsiderable importance included under the apparently one and undivided progressive muscular atro})hy. At that time (1883), grounding on numerous cases of my own I m ade an attempt i° to show that this apparent unity contained at least two clinically and probably anatomically different forms of disease, and that these were clearly distinguishable throughout in symptoms, development, localization, and actual condition of the tissues. By the side of the well-defined spinal form, which depends on lesion of the anterior horns of grey matter, I placed another, which I called "juvenile " muscular atrophy, and I sought then to show in detail that the pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis and the hereditary form of Leyden both belong to the latter type. Looking at the matter in this way, and with the light thrown upon it by Lichtheim's case, it followed that probably we had in these latter forms not a spinal affection but a purely muscular lesion, in which the nervous system, more particularly the spinal cord and the peripheral nerves, appear to be quite intact. Thus the view maintained with such obstinacy by Friedreich was recognised as having at least partial justifi- cation. The separation of the two forms which I proposed, and which I arrived at exclusively from the observation of living cases and from carefully noting the difierentiating features, met shortly with almost universal acceptance. It was of especial value that Charcot and his pupils at once and unreservedly closed with my view and proceeded to give it greater breadth and its foundations greater firmness. Shortly afterwards Duchenne's " infantile" muscular atrophy, on which I had not touched and whose essential criterion is commencement in the face, was recognised by Landouzy and Dejerine as a primaiy myopathy, the central nervous system remaining normal; after some little reluctance they associated this also with my juvenile and with the pseudo-hypertrophic form. The results of some more autopsies in cases of juvenile muscular atrophy (Fr. Schultze, Landouzy and Dejerine, P. Marie) contiibuted in no small degree to the establishment of the theory, and additional progress has been made through the large number, partly of re- coi'ded cases and partly of careful anatomical and clinical studies, which the last year or two have produced (Zimmei'lin, Fi-.