LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 61 spread more slowly over the whole thoracic skin, and in which we may be doubtful whether the hypereemia or the formation of the carcinoma is the primary affection. We also remember the transmission of carcinoma into lymphatic glands, which is equally peculiar to all the microbic diseases of tissue, and in which the lymphatic glands act as, sometimes more, sometimes less, per- meable filters. We think of the numerous experiments of direct transmission of carcinoma from man to animals, and from animal to animal of the same species, which at last Hancm has successfully performed in rats. Could not also immunities and predispositions of different species of animal play an important part in these instances, as in the transmission of the tubercle-bacillus and other kind of microbes? Have we not found in carcinoma exactly the same relations of the excessive primary " epithelial" growth with the formation of granulation-tissue in the neighbourhood, as it exists in the case of the formation of a primary " endothelial" tubercle- nodule with the development of the lymphoid (granulation) tissue ? Is there not a certain parallelism between the develop- ment of carcinoma and tubercle propagation in their various degrees of activity ? Scheuerlens Gmxinoma-hacillus is supposed to be a very ■comLmon, harmless saprophyte originating in the epidermis. His careful investigations at any rate deserve every praise. We must not abandon these attempts, nor ought we to be deterred by failures. If there really exist a carcinoma-microbion it will most pro- bably be a Bacillus or a Spcxrozoon (Gh^egarine, Amoeba, Plas- modia). We ought to try to commence our investigations with the acuminate condyloma, with the warts spreading by contact, and with the flat condyloma. " He that seeketh, findeth." The success would be glorious, not only in the purely scientific aspect, but also as regards the possible deliverance of mankind from one of its direst scourges. If we have succeeded in discovering the microbion the possibility of killing it without destroying the organism will not be ex- cluded. We are able to kill the recently discovered malaria-plasmodia by quinine and arsenic, the (still doubtful) syphilis-bacilli by mer- cury and iodine, without injury to the whole organism. We