265 ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. strain, tonics, perhaps the vise of arsenic; these exhaust tlu; means we have at our command. For the disease itself we merely possess the old remedies which have so often failed of their purpose. My own opinion is that the application of electricity is still the most trustworthy thing we have. In particular, I would have you use the galvanic current along the back and over the cervical and lumbar swellings of the cord with a regard for the trophic centres lying about these regions, whether you consider them the proper seat of the disease or not. You may, besides, employ peripherally the faradic, galvanic, or farado-galvanic cui-rents to the nerves and muscles, although I must warn you against using too strong currents or having too long sittings. Massage of the affected muscles deserves a trial, but it must not be too energetic. So do gymnastics, but they must be carefully adapted to the condition of the individual muscles as regards nutrition and strength, and, above all, must not be carried too far. In addition, you may employ any of the means which give tone and resisting power to the whole organism. Such are cold baths, sea-bathing, warm salt baths, chalybeate and peat baths, pure air, good food, tonics, arsenic, strychnia, &c. Gentlemen, I am coming to an end. I have endeavoxired to bring before you progressive muscular dystrophy as a perfectly well-defined disease, though it assumes various forms. It is certainly by far the most common of all the progressive muscular atrophies, and the number of the cases that have come imder my own notice, reckoning all the forms together, is many times the number of my cases of spinal amyotrophy. I trust, at any rate, I have convinced you of the clinical unity of our " dystrophies," and I am now satisfied to leave it to yourselves, if you choose to distinguish individual forms or subspecies (types) in that unity—a course which is not without its advantages. The division into the pseudo-hypertrophic, the juvenile, and the infantile forms is recommended by its simplicity, and the characters of these forms I do not need to repeat again. It is possible, however, that with advancing knowledge we may arrive at a division still more suitable for our purposes.