289 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. nection and liis sufferings. Local treatment wliicli the patient underwent, when 28, for nocturnal emissions had not the slightest influence upon them or the asthmatic attacks. Now, however, that I recognise the evil consequences of" frequently-practised coitus reservatus, I ascribe the failure of my treatment to this factor, and although the patient told me of it, I did not forbid it. Later on the patient gave up this practice for various reasons, and treated himself for the nocturnal emissions by administering a cold water enema just before retiring. Gradually his sexual troubles disappeared, and his asthma got well, after having lasted some 16 years. Case IX.—Severe Asthma in a Young Lady hrouglit on during Coitus. In the summer of 1884 I was called during the night to attend the young wife of a French officer, who was staying at the well- known Schweizerhof Hotel, at Ehinefalls, on her wedding tour. On arrival, I found the patient, setat. 20, who was fair, some- what delicate and anaamic looking, out of bed, sitting in an arm chair, and suffering terribly from want of exspiratory power. Her husband informed me that they only arrived at Ehinefalls two days ago, and that in the latter part of the same night asthma appeared. Four days ago the young couple had been married at Brussels, the home of the bride, and had left immediately for Cologne, where, on consummation of the marriage, his wife, who had no idea that she was asthmatic, had a paroxysm for the first time. It was not, however, serious, and did not lastlong. The following night a severe attack occurred again during sexual connection, which lasted in varying intensity some two days. Then, on arrival at Ehinefalls, during the third intercourse, the severest attack of all came on, in which I found the patient, and which lasted, varying in degree, some eight days. In fact, it was so serious that I was obliged to spend three whole nights with the patient. In the course of conversation, Captain 0. told me that his wife had suffered a good deal from chlorosis, nervousness, and leucorrhoca. During sexual intercourse she is exceedingly ex- citable ; sexual orgasm veiy soon occurred with her, whereas he U