SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. The pathology of the nervous system is one of the favoured children of our present-day medicine. Hardly any other branch of our studies from a condition of complete chaos has attained in so short a time so high a degree of development. If we compare the text-books of Marshall Hall and Eomberg, both dating from the forties, and both standard treatises for their time, with the works of Erb and others of to-day, what a revolution there has been in something like forty years ! Histological investigation has gone hand-in-hand with experi- mental researches into the functions of the nervous system under normal and morbid conditions; new and more exact methods have promoted clinical study and given certainty to its resialts ; and the therapeutics of the various affections has received an immense impulse through the perfection at which the physical methods of treatment have arrived. Kelativelythe least positive advance has been made in aatiology, a fact which is explained by the great difficulties which surround the subject. These difficulties are particularly great when we come to consider the causes of diseases of the central nervous system. We must not, however, omit to notice that even on this line of investigation there are already several landmarks laid down which form the beginnings of a scientific treatment. I call to mind the important work that Dejerine lately showed has been done in regard to the influence of heredity on the origin of nervous disease; the investigations into the causes of general paralysis of the insane and of locomotor ataxia ; the investigations into the effects of chronic lead poisoning and the abuse of alcohol and tobacco ; and lastly, the researches into the influence which acute and chronic infectious disease ma}^ exercise on the nervous .system. We do not frequently see, as you know, disease of the central ov peripheral nervous system follow from acute infectious disease. The nervous disturbances which result from enteric fever,