TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 379 paralysis in adults the walking could be improved in a similar way. Gymnastics-both the simple German chamber-gymnastics and the so-called Swedish gymnastics—may be advantageously used m conditions of motor weakness with or without atrophy. They are mainly usefal, of course, when the active morbid process which is the cause of the condition has practically come to an end. I have lately employed them in a case of hereditary ataxia for the disturbance of co-ordination in the lower ex- tremities ; the patient's gait was improved thereby. Massage supplements gymnastics in certain respects, as it may be used in those cases where there is not sufficient power of movement to render possible a course of active gymnastics. When properly carried out it can no doubt exercise a marked influence on the nutrition and functional capacity of the muscles. The amyotrophies form the most favourable field for its appli- cation, but it has been tried with success even for the aneesthesia in tabes (Schreiber"'*).* Lastly I must here mention the application of rarefied air by means of Junod's boot (LymanS^), which has been used during the last few years for the treatment of the motor dis- orders in tabes. The success of the method, the improvement m the nutrition and function of the muscles, the diminution of the sensory disorders, &c., make it extremely desirable that we should have a further trial of it, particularly in amyotrophies. Yl.—Stretching Procedures, Nerve-vibration, and Ryjmotism. One of the methods next to be described has been the subject of a great deal of writing, almost of a whole literature—I mean nerve-stretching. We know the enthusiasm with which this operation was taken up after the wonderful reports which Langenbuch gave of it, and the hopes that were cherished for * Rossbach says (Lehrbuch d. physikalischen Heilmethoden, 2 HUlfte, 1882 p 495), "Only those diseases of the nervous system that are of peripheral origin can be treated by massage," but this opinion, as is evident from what has been said above, is quite untenable. In cases of atrophic spinal paralysis I have repeatedly seen massage prove useful in the stage of convalescence And Berglind (Petersburg. Med. Zeitsch., 1874, N. F. 5, Heft.) has had good results trom it in some cases of progressive muscular atrophy where the disease was not tar advanced. In tabes, I have observed, it sometimes improves distinctly, though only for a time, the power of walking.