NEURASTHENIA AND ITS TREATMENT. Gentlemen, , . The era of civilisation in which we live has its distinctive pathological stamp conferred upon it by maladies of the nervous system, and above all by neurasthenia and mental diseases. Statistics have proved the quick increase of psychoses, and expression is given to the fact by the rapid multiplication of lunatic asylums. As regards neurasthenia, statistical demon- stration of its increase in frequency is not forthcoming; but the experience of physicians, especially of such as enjoy a special confidence on the part of the subjects of nervous disease, indicates quite an appalling frequency of neurasthenic conditions. The causes of this phenomenon are to be looked for in the rapid cultural development of our time. The immense advances all along the line of intellectual, political, and social existence could not have been made without an extraordinary tension of mental forces, and the preservation and development of these new acquisitions entail a continuous exertion both intellectual and psychical on the part of all civilised peoples. The more perfect, the more multifarious the functions of the politician, of the scholar, of the artist, of the merchant, of the artisan, the greater the requirements arising from the exercise and perfection of these functions, so much greater must be the measure of the demands made on the nerve force of the best men in the nation. But that is not yet all. Pmi passu with the demands on the working strength of the individual, the extent of his require- ments in life, and in the enjoyment of life, grow greater, and that not merely in the coarser, but also in the more delicate forms of enjoyment which consist in the gratification of ambition, in the whole style of existence, in the education of children, and the selection of their walk in life, &c. Contentment in narrow relationships, satisfaction with the performance of duty within the limits of a modest avocation, endeavour to incline children to, and prepare them for, the same sphere,—the same assured