244« KKB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. doAvn gi-adually, but sutidcnly and all of a heap; if you take hiin under the armpits and attempt to lift him you find yourself getting no hold over his body but merely raising his shoulders to his ears; if ho wishes to raise himself from a squatting position he first gets on all fours and then clambers with his arms up his owa legs, bringing himself with a jerk at the last into his ordinary position of lumbar lordosis. On closer inspection we recognise here also the presence both of atrophy and hypertrophy of the muscles. In the upper half of the body there are in a condition of airoplnj and parefiis—the pectorals (all but the clavicular portion), the trapezii (in the lower two-thirds), the latissimi dorsi (quite gone), the bicipites and brachiales antici (moderately wasted), the tricipites (to a slight degree), the supinatores longi (almost quite gone), and the extensors of the trunk (very much Avasted); in a condition of hypertrophy—the infraspinati (in good condition functionally also), deltoids (vigorous but rather soft and wasted posteriorly) ; in normal condition—sterno-mastoids, rhomboids, serrati magni, Icvatores scapulae, supraspinati, coracobrachiales, flexors and extensors of the forearm, and small muscles of the hands. In the lower half we have atrophy and iveahness in the following: the flexors of the hips, the quadriceps, and the lateral abdominal muscles ; hypertrophy in the tensor fascise, sartorius, perhaps the adductors, the peronei (distinctly weak), gastrocnemii (very strong). The glutcei and recti abdominis appear normal. The muscles of the face and of mastication are quite normal. The muscular substance is in part soft, in part firm and elastic. No fibrillar twitchings. Mechanical and electrical irritability lowered in the atrophied muscles, no trace of reaction of degenera- tion, sensibility and skin reflexes normal. Tendon reflex absent in the triceps, almost absent at the knee, active in the tendo Achillis. Sphincters, organs of special sense, mental condition and internal organs perfectly normal. Lower section of the thorax much dilated and flattened out. According to former usage, gentlemen, this case also would have been termed pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis without niore ado, although, as you have satisfied yourselves, the muscles that are enlarged and are acting well by no means give the impression of pseudo-hypertrophy or lipomatosis. We cannot properly call it an example of Leyden's hereditary atrophy, because, though in other respects akin, it lacks the quality of heredity, on which so much stress has been laid by Leyden. It would agree better even with the features of the variety I have termed jxivenile atrophy, had it not taken origin in very early childhood.