300 PEYER ON ASTHMA AND DISEASES OF GENERATIVE ORGANS. Of course we must not forget that even in the same patient other exciting causes may be present as is seen in Case XVI. We can only be quite certain of our diagnosis when, along with the sexual affection, asthma also ceases. Prognosis wholly depends upon the cause. As a rule, however, we can say that it is favourable in sexual asthma, as a fair number in the course of time recover completely. I have observed severe cases where for 13 years no attack of asthma has recurred. The treatment of sexual asthma is naturally that of the primary cause and will vary accordingly. In women this, of course, belongs to the province of th« gynascologist. I should, however, like to mention that the medical attendant should not overlook, from false prudery, the evil consequences of onanism and coitus imperfectus. In men great importance must be attached to the latter point. For, as a rule, the patient is ignorant of the pernicious results of this practice, for it is but true that, in persons of nervous disposition, neurasthenia sexualis is thus brought on and kept up. In Case VIII. I found that the seminal emissions and asthma were not benefited in the slightest degree as long as coitus reservatus was continued. After this was stopped, they both ceased under the administration of cold water enemata before retiring. The urethritis posterior, on which sexual asthma depends—be it specific in nature or otherwise—as well as spermatorrhoea, impotence, or temporary aspermatismus, must as a rule be treated locally. General treatment is, of course, of material value, but as a rule is not sufl&cient to cure the affection. It is not within the limits of this paper to consider the treat- ment of chronic afiections of the male generative organs that may be the cause of sexual asthma. I shall here only mention that the treatment usually is some- what difficult and troublesome, and requires great perseverance, both on the part of the doctor and patient, in order to arrive at a happy result.