27C PEYER ON ASTHMA AND find practised it continuously up to manhood. At school, when greatly excited {e.g., when he had quickly to work out a difficult sum before the teacher) seminal emissions would occur with the penis quite flaccid. Later on these took place when simply coming into contact with women. Nocturnal emissions occurred without erection or awaking him. Several attempts at sexual intercourse completely broke down, either from defective erection or from precipitate ejaculation. In his marital relations it was just the same; even if penetration was effected, ejaculation immediately occurred; and his wife stated she had never ex- perienced the sexual orgasm, and therefore was very much surprised at conceiving. The penis was small and flabby, and the glans was completely covered by the long prepuce. The meatus was greatly reddened, the mucosa tumid, and the introduction of a bougie caused unusual pain. Frequent examination of the urine, which chemically was normal, revealed almost invariably traces of semen. Biermer, like the preceding medical men, diagnosed pulmonary catarrh and emphysema. " The asthmatic attacks are produced by catarrhal swelling and spastic contraction of the bronchioles," so Biermer states. At that time I certainly and quite naturally thought so too. But what is the origin of this spastic contraction {i.e., the paroxysm, which determines the nature of asthma) ? What is its cause ? Along which nerve path does it travel ? And last, but not least, to the practical physician, will it yield to treatment ? At that time, about 1870, asthma was not regarded as a nervous disorder, and still less was the idea ever entertained that it could be brought about reflexly by afiections of the generative organs. Yet, for an observing practitioner, the probability of this causal connection in the above case lay quite close at hand. For we have here defective sexual power, typical sperma- torrhoea, and asthmatic attacks following and brought on by sexual connection. At any rate I resolved upon local treatment of the spermatorrhoea. This consisted in the prolonged use of a metallic bougie for some minutes at a time, and of astringent injections. As regards the ultimate result I can only state that the patient since then, some 15 years now, has remained quite free from asthma.