TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 355 hydropathy (the so-called water cure), then artificial and natural brine baths, thermal brine baths, simple thermal baths, thermal sulphur baths, chalybeate and carbonic acid baths, mud and peat baths. On the other hand, sea-bathing, bathing in lakes or rivers, vapour baths, and hot air baths are all found to be of no benefit. If then hydropathy or baths are to be employed, we have first to take into account the temperature of the water, for this determines the intensity of the thermic stimulant. This state- ment may appear incorrect in view of the fact that in these afiections both the cold water treatment and hot baths are employed with effect. But careful consideration makes it evident that these therapeutic methods are not really so different from one another as their names might seem to indicate. What were formerly commonly known as cold water cure establish- ments (Kaltwasserheilanstalten) have now, if they are conducted on rational principles, dropped the "cold "in their name and become simply water cure establishments (Wasserheilanstalten), in other words, they have dropped any pretensions to using cold water exclusively, and employ baths with high temperatures if a particular case seems to require them. In chronic disease of the cord, physicians in these establishments, as well as specialists and clinical teachers, have invariably found that really cold baths and douches, whether with or without rubbing down, must be avoided in cases of structural lesion. Tepid and cold bathe, that is, baths at a temperature of from 90° to 70° Fahr., are the only ones which are employed with success. This is in harmony with our experience of what takes place at hot spas. At all the most important spas of this class in Germany, the general conviction is that these cases are best treated," not with hot baths properly so-called, but only with the water of the hot spring after it has been cooled down somewhat. "Even prepared in this way, the patient is kept in the bath as short a time as possible, and some simple hydropathic application, such as pouring colder water down the back, is frequently added. Thus it has come about that there is now no great difference between the treatment by baths as it is practised in hydropathic establishments (Wasserheilanstalten), and as it is carried on by the various experienced physicians at the hot spas. And practically the principles which regulate the treatment in hydro-