104 ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. it has had time to damage the organism; while if the cell succumbs nothing stands in the way of the settlement, multipli- cation, and spread of the" fungus. This idea of Nageli's (which was held by him in a very general sort of way) in regard to the nature of infection, and the part played by the living cell in the struggle against it, has received a great des^elopment in Metschni- koff's phagocyte theory. With all the ambiguity which attaches to the phenomena observed by Metschnikoff, his theory is yet very attractive. According to him, the function of warding off infection is fulfilled by the phagocytes, as he terms them, cells which are recruited from among the number of leucocytes and fixed con- nective tissue cells. They appear on the scene on the outbreak of the irritation caused by the invasion of the bacilli, and proceed forthwith to devour the intruders—that is to say, they take them up into their own cell-bodies, and digest them or destroy their reproductive power. They are divided into two groups, large and small phagocytes, macrophagi and microphagi. Among the former Metschnikoff reckons, for example, the epithelioid cells of the connective tissue, among the latter the nucleated leucocytes. These two forms, according to him, play different parts among the different infectious diseases. In his most recent publication he says, for instance, that the streptococci of erysipelas are devoured by microphagi only, but that these latter in their turn are then taken up into the substance of macrophagi, and there digested. In like manner microphagi alone devour the gono- coccus, macrophagi the bacillus of the splenic fever of rabbits and guinea-pigs. According to this author both kinds of phagocytes take part m the struggle against tuberculosis. The macrophagi in the form of epithelioid cells and giant-cells take the principal share in the contest, but the microphagi also are there in great numbers, and indeed are the first to begin the fight. On introducing pure cultures of the tubercle bacilli into the anterior chamber, or under the skin of the rabbit, Metschnikoff found numbers of microphagi stuffed with bacilli as early as twenty hours after the inoculation, this therefore at a time when there could yet be no word of any reaction on the part of the fixed cells. Afterwards the macrophagi make their appearance, and swallow both bacilli and dead microphagi. In this way, according to Metschnikoff, charac-