ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 245 That, however, need not give us any great concern in the nioantime. I should next like to bring before you for a moment two of the same family, in whom you can discern the earliest stages of the disease. 5 and 6. These two cases are sisters, The parents are free from the affection, and no similar case has occurred so far as tliey (the parents) are aware in the families of either of them. Our little patients, however, have a stepbrother (son of the same father by a sister of then- mother's) whom 1 saw in 1875 in the first stages of the trouble, and who now has advanced atrophy over the whole body, with contracture in several places. In him the face is unaffected. I saw the girls two years ago, and will tell you what I found then, that you may compare the record with their condition to-day. The elder of the two, Helene, is now fourteen years of age. In April, 1888, the affection had been gradually coming upon her for several years, with weakness of the legs and back, and latterly some difficulty in mounting stairs. The examination at that date gave the following results : face quite unaffected; atrophy of the latissimi, trapezii (lower two-thirds), and rhom- boids ; less marked but still distinct wasting of the pectorals, flexors in the upper arm, and supinators; hypertrophy of the infraspinati and serrati; weakness and wasting of the lumbar muscles; distinct atrophy of the thigh, especially of the quadri- ceps, knotty condition of the latter in contraction; sartorius normal; moderate enlargement of the calves; muscles generally firm; slight affection of the gait and characteristic climbing up the legs in rising from the ground; quite healthy otherwise. Now, as you observe, the affection has advanced a bit. The atrophy of the muscles I have named is distinctly greater; the latissimi, the flexors of the forearm, and the supinators, have in particular distinctly grown weaker; the lower half of the pectorals is almost gone; the weakness in the thighs is increased. In addition to the infraspinati the deltoids and tricipites are now manifestly hypertrophied, and the calves are distinctly larger. There is some weakness in the peroneal region; the walk is high-stepping (steigend). Face remains quite normal. No fibrillar twitchings, no reaction of degeneration, knee jerk weak, and tendo Achillis reflex active. The younger sister, Auguste, is now ten years old. She was only brought to me in April, 1888, by her anxious mother because, as she said, " she cannot run upstairs like other children." The mother did not at that time think of her otherwise than as quite healthy. The only things I could then be certain of were that the latissimi were distinctly atrophied, the trapezii rather weak,