TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SriNAL CORD. 3G7 mended that when used it should be alternated with galvanic currents of moderate strength. But its peripheral application is a matter of greater importance, and is much commoner. The faradisation of nerves and muscles in spinal paralysis of the extremities is a method much used to counteract the nutritional disorders in the neuro-muscular apparatus brought on by want of exercise, or by the absence of trophic currents from the centres. This procedure is often followed by very remarkable success. It is not necessary to believe that we have here to do merely with peripheral and local effects, and that the results in question are produced by such. The unavoidable irritation of the skin (perhaps also the stimulation of the sensory muscle nerves) acts reflexly on the cord; in this way it is possible, as I have already pointed out in my investigations on the electro- therapeutics of the spinal cord, that faradisation of one leg- might increase the motility of the other. The application of the faradic current to nerves and muscles requires therefore some caution; with too strong currents and too long sittings we may easily over-stimulate and thus injure the cord. But while the reflex eflFect in this application of the current is accessory and unimportant, there is another method used in which we make it our only, or at any rate our chief, object to gain this effect: I mean the faradic stroking of the skin, parti- cularly according to Kumpf s plan. The positive pole is placed over the sternum, while the wire brush, representing the negative pole, is moved up and down the back and the affected extremities, touching all the parts several times, and producing distinct redness of the skin. This is done twice over, beginning with the back each time, and such a strength of current chosen that the feeling is midway between mere sensation and pain. The whole sitting should last about ten or twelve minutes. This treatment in the hands of Kumpf^^ (Bonn) has given very good results in a number of cases, especially in locomotor ataxia, where he has generally used it along with antisyphilitic remedies. Eisenlohr^° also has had good results. I have been like Eemak^^, and have been less fortunate with it; in the hands even of Rumpf himself it has miscarried sometimes.* * It must be noted that if the method ia to be carried out as Eumpf would have it, and considerable redness produced in the skin, it cannot always be done without causing pain, and on that account it does not admit of indiscriminate application to every patient.