1G4 HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. individuals in diabetes is so considerable that Hoftinann in fact divides diabetics into two groups, according to iheir symptoms. I. The neurogenous or accidental, due to injuries of, and changes in the nerves ; -this group is chiefly seen in males. Furunculosis is almost never present, albuminuria and cataract exceedingly rare, and the pancreas is at times atrophied. With the cure of the nerve affection, diabetes disappears (slight form). II. Diabetes of the obese, or constitutional diabetes, more frequent in women, tendency to furunculosis and cataract, often complicated by gout and nephritis (severe form). 4. Injuries, especially after concussion of the brain, spinal cord, and abdominal ganglia, with subsequent glycosuria and Diabetes insipidus, particularly if for any reason the latter ]iersist for a long period. 5. Irritation of the female generative organs, accord- ing to Imlach, may produce diabetes. He published a striking case where, after removal of some extensive uterine adhesion, diabetes of long standing completely disappeared (Glycosuria ?) For this reason diabetes is stated to occur not only less frequently and in a milder form after the climacteric period, but also to run a more favourable course. 6. The excessive use of saccharine and amylaceous food-stuffs may be a predisposing factor. I had opportunities of convincing myself of this in some cases in which no other detrimental factor could possibly be adduced. Lastly, diabetes has been noticed to occur in a number of different diseases : in ague, epilepsy, alcoholism, syphilis, &c. But it would indeed be an error to conclude that posi Jioc proioter hoe. If the above diseases, which are widespread enough in all classes of patients, did render the ground suitable for the pro- duction of diabetes, this would certainly figure in their statistics, but in spite of the remarkable increase of diabetes during the last decades we know that this is not the case. It is very difficult to determine whether the cause of this increase is due to the simultaneous increase in insanity, or to the more burdensome conditions of modern life involving trouble, care, mental and bodily strain, or else to circumstances which still elude observa- tion. Carefully compiled statistics, embracing to^\ms and villages in various countries, would best help us to a conclusion on these points; but so far these are wanting.