59 AND ITS TREATMENT. doubly injurious, occurring just at the period of mental and bodily development, because the subject, on account of his in- capability of mental labour, gets left behind, and irretrievably loses part of the time spent at school. In addition, he suffers constantly from the moral oppression of remorse, from the con- sciousness that he has deserved his own misfortune, and from all kinds of hypochondriacal ideas about the evil effects of this vice on life and health. This self-torture—which is for the most part quite uncalled for, especially as regards the fear of diseases of the spinal cord—is greatly contributed to by the natural dism- cHnation on the part of the patient to confide in his medical adviser, which results in his wildly resorting, without effect, to all sorts of reading, quackery, and drugging, which only drag him deeper and deeper into the slough of despond. Finally, a factor of the greatest importance for the develop- ment of neurasthenia is hereditary neuropatUc iJi^6dis230sition, a congenital tendency to conditions of enfeeblement and ex- haustion either running in families or existing as a racial or ancestral idiosyncrasy, and not unfrequently both together. The hereditary stamp is conferred by a neurasthenic father or a hysterical mother. Even in childhood it manifests itself in a marked susceptibility to emotional impressions, but only appears in all completeness during the second decade of years, when intellectual and emotional life attain their riper development. Or it may remain latent under favourable circumstances until a serious misfortune or an unusually great mental exertion or emotional stimulus cause the malady to appear more distinctly. Influences which are supported without difficulty by the con- genitally sound often assume a pathogenic significance in these cases. The therapeutic intractability of the disease and its striking tendency to relapse after complete recovery, even in the midst of quite favourable external surroundings, are also distinc- tive features of hereditary neurasthenia. Eacial and national peculiarities play an important rSle in the getiology of neurasthenia. The Semitic race is especially inclined to neurasthenia. A neurotic strain may even be said to pervade the whole people, despite their great capability for work and steady application. Obstacles and difficulties in the ordinary course of events are overcome by the Jew with astonishing energy and good sense, but an emotional depression; an illness