298 PEYER ON ASTHMA AND Constitution and nervous taint. Out of eleven men, seven were very strong and well developed, and four rather slim and delicate looking. In two cases only was there an inlierited taint of nervousness on the maternal side. • With almost all the males, in addition to asthma, there were other nerve symptoms present; in fact, that condition which we understand by the phrase sexual neurasthenia. This is almost without exception the result of sexual abuse in its various forms. As regards the women, a hereditary nervous taint could only be ascertained in two. On the other hand, all wSuffered, in a more or less pronounced form, from hysteria and other nerve symptoms, which, like the asthma, depended upon some uterine affection, and therefore belong to the same category. Condition of tJw lungs. In ten there was more or less severe emphysema, which, as a rule, did not give rise to any complaint. They could walk, go up hill, and take part in the manoeuvres. A few only suffered from frequent catarrh of the respiratory tract. Manifestation of the asthmatic attachs. It is well known that congestion plays an important part in asthma, for not only in the idiopathic form but also in the rest it is frequently ushered in by nasal and bronchial catarrh. There are individuals in whom any slight catarrhal irritation is accompanied by asthma (Bronchial asthma—Biermer, Berlin clinical transactions). What the exact connection between catarrhal hyperemia and bronchial spasm is we cannot say. We may, a jpriori, suppose that either bronchial congestion produces bronchial spasm, a causal relation thus subsisting between the two, or that both are the result of a disturbance of the nerve paths, in other words result of reflex action. On the other hand, cases of bronchial asthma are met with— and Tronsseau drew attention to these—where no symptoms of catarrh are present at the outset, but which terminate with such, so that it would seem that bronchial hypergemia may be a sequela of asthma (Biermer). The congestive element likewise plaj^s a part in sexual asthma, for some cases commence with nasal and bronchial catarrh. On the whole this is not so frequent. In one case only I observed that sexual asthma was brought on sometimes by heavy drinking.