SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 133 weeks as freely movable and as easily displaced as was the case with the afore-mentioned bullets; on careful preparation, however, it was found that the bullet did not lodge in a cystic space, but was invested by a delicate fine layer of connective tissue, it was grown into the loose subcutaneous fibrous tissue, and was movable with this. (14) A cylindrical piece of ivood about 1 cm. long and a few millimetres thick, remained one year and a half healed-in under the dorsal skin of a rabbit. There having been no trace of inflammation, this foreign body only lay in an extremely thin, but distinctly circumscribed white capsule of connective tissue. This was not in immediate contact with the smooth surface of the wood, as there was some serum in the cyst; the two uneven vertical sections of the wood, however, were so intimately ad- herent to the capsule that they had to be torn off, whereby some blood escaped from the villus-like formations which had grown into the pores of the wood. The cyst-wall was treated with a solution of 2 per cent, of nitrate of silver, stretched across a piece of cork and washed with a solution of 6 per cent, of common salt. It was possible to remove the silver-stained inner pellicle. In horizontal sections, the fibrous tissue, and not very numerous cells of different sizes, without any endothelioid arrange- ment could be recognised. Vertical sections through the smooth portion of the cyst presented extremely loose tracts of connective tissue and numerous vessels; the interior showed somewhat larger endothelioid cells, and between these structureless inter- stitial tissue. The place where the wood adhered contained very numerous and large multinuclear cells, and numerous blood- vessels, which also entered the villus-like growths of the con- nective tissue. (All the foreign bodies employed in the experiments on animals had previously been sterilised.) With glass splinters, in general with smooth surfaces or sharp edges of a not too heavy foreign body, encapsulation in a delicate capsule of connective tissue with a smooth internal wall will always take place, provided that the part of the body be not exposed to other kinds of injuries ; if, however, the latter be the case, a larger quantity of serum will form, or the capsule will become thickened. Heavier pieces of lead lie in a coarse-walled, not perfectly smooth cyst, or they are closely surrounded by a