DISEASES OF THE (iENEKATlNE UlUiANS. I'of a long- time he did not notice any injurious eflect fVoiii excessive sexual indulgence, until some four years ago, when lie had nocturnal emissions in spite of frequent sexual intercourse. At first they occurred about once a week, then more often, until in the same night he had connection and later on seminal emissions. In the morning he was dreadfully tired and ])layed out, and sutlered slightly from shortness of breath. In the last two and a-half years intervals occurred—and recently more fre- quently—when regularly, for a week at a time, he had nocturnal emissions, in spite of frequent sexual connection. Sexual desire had considerably decreased. Erection took place readily enough, followed almost by immediate ejaculation ; and it was only when the patient had drunk freely of beer, in spite of long-continued friction, that no discharge of semen took place, and the erection passed off—in other words temporary asp er ma t i smu s. The sexual orgasm accompanying ejaculation had aimost>-completely disappeared. Several specimens of urine the patient sent me always showed the same characters—more or less traces of semen, at times hyaline casts (testicle casts) as above mentioned, and a few lymph corpuscles. I altered my diagnosis, and considered the case to be neurotic in nature, one of n e r v o u s e r e t h i s m or n e u r a s t h e n i a, brought about by early-commenced and long-continued sexual abuse. The periodic nasal catarrh, asthma and chronic diarrhoea were nervous or reflex in nature, and depended upon the sexual disorder. The frequent micturition represented the so-called irritable bladder, and was due to an inflammatory condition of the neck of the bladder, which had extended from the prostatic portion of the urethra. The correctness of the diagnosis was proved by the result of the local treatment of the uro-genital tract. The nervous coryza, asthma, and chronic diarrhoea disappeared completely in the course of half a year, and no return occurred. Case IV.—Spermatorrlioea. Severe Spinal Irritation. Asthma,. Mr. H., farmer, well-to-do, 35 years old, exceedingly robust, who served with me in the same regiment, consulted me in May, 1883, on account of pain in the back and asthma. His habits were very regular and industrious ; parents healthy