SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 143 induration in the hernial opening was attempted by keeping up, after the ligature of the hernial sac, granulation for many- weeks by the application of jodoform-gauze, a proceedhig which proved so successful that a very strong cicatrix actually formed, which, after twelve months, had become so very delicate as to permit the skin to be taken up in folds over the deeper layers. As it is well known, in Gzerni/s method for the radical operation for hernia, it is intended to produce a resistent cicatrix by burying the silk ligatures applied to the ring of the inguinal canal. Professor Billroth, for this reason, always employs for the sutures very thick silk threads, like those used for the sutures of the fascia after laparotom3^ I repeatedly convinced myself that in these cases, although a very violent inflammatory reaction "had been set tip, after a year or so no continuous induration around the silk threads coidd he discovered, at the ^dmost only small nodides. Although Gzernj/s operation for the inguinal hernia may frequently have a radical effect, the hernial sac having been tied and the hernial opening thus having been directly closed up, on the other hand, in crural hernia, the difficulty of sewing up the hernial opening suggests the trial of another method. I tried glass-wool in the following case (Clinical Case Booh No. 147, of the year 1887): M. S., a maid-servant, thirty years of age, suffering for ten years from a crural hernia at the left side, produced by lifting a heavy weight. It was small at the beginning, nor did it cause any inconvenience or pain until six years ago it had suddenly reached the size of an apple, when it became irreducible, and brought on symptoms of incarceration. Herniotomy was performed at Professor von Dumreicher's clinic, and the patient was discharged with a truss three weeks after the operation. The truss broke (?) a few hours after her discharge, and the hernia reappeared on the same day in its former size (?). Notwithstanding her hard work, however, the patient felt no kind of inconvenience from the progressive enlargement of the hernial tumour until on the 2nd of May, 1887, the hernia suddenly assumed the size of a child's head, and repeated vomiting and obstruction of the bowels took place. These symptoms, however, soon ceased. The patient, owing to the size of the hernial tumour, decided to submit to the radical treatment.