ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 221 spaces on both sides, but more markedly on the left, there is a horizontal furrow moving downwards in inspiration, upwards in expiration (visible diaphragmatic motion). In forced expiration the muscles on the right side of the abdomen contract fairly well; on the left side below very weakly, and above not at all, so that at each coughing impulse, the left mesogastriumandhypochondrium bellies out to the size of a child's head, and at the same time the lower opening of the thorax is very much dilated. Active and passive movement of right upper extremity possible in all directions; strength, however, for coarse movements at a mini- mum. Pressure of the hand scarcely perceptible. Left upper extremity very much emaciated, equally so all over, and almost completely paralysed. Resistance to passive movements in the joints. Deltoid, supra- and infra-spinati, latissimus dorsi, pectoi'als, and serratus magnus paralysed and extremely wasted, muscular substance scarcely to be felt. Points of the fingers can be inserted between the acromion and head of the humerus. Head turned to the right, cervical spine curved to the right, dorsal spine, by way of compensation, to the left. Left scapula approximated to the spine, and fixed in this position on account of contracture of the rhomboids, trapezius (middle and lower portion), and latis- simus dorsi. Legs paretic; muscles very thin and soft, especially of left leg. Patient can walk with the support of two persons ; feels himself safer when on the left leg than when on the right. Strength of muscles for coarse movements everywhere veiy much diminished. Dorsi-flexion in the right foot very limited. Left knee-jerk absent, right much exaggerated. Ankle-clonus absent. Cremasteric reflex prompt. Skin reflexes exaggerated, tickling plantar reflex very marked. Tactile conduction normal, pain conduction prompt. Sense of space on the right side moderate, on the left distinctly defective. On the left side of the abdomen and thorax almost comijlete analgesia and anassthesia, incomplete in the left lower extremity. Skin of the left inguinal region and of the penis and scrotum rather hyperassthetic. On the right half of the abdomen and thorax sensibility normal, normal also on the left half of the face and tongue. No hypersesthesia in the skin of the extremities on right side. Of trophic disturbances in the skin all that could be seen was on the fingers of the left hand, and on the left foot, where there was a marked hypertrophy and desquamation of the epidermis; none of this on the right side. The sweat secretion, diminished in the left half of the body since the end of December, has now for a short time been absent altogether on that side ; normal or even exaggerated on the right side of the face and thorax. This observation was repeatedly verified by means of pilocarpine injections, when the left half of the face remained quite, of the body almost quite, free from perspiration. Electrical examination of the paretic and paralysed muscles gives simple diminution of irritabiUty to both kinds of