304 STEUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. and analysis of the symptoms brought out that it was quite impossible that they could be dependent merely on a disturbance of the functions of the spinal cord. Numerous phenomena of undoubtedly cerebral character pointed distinctly to concomitant affection of the brain; even symptoms which had previously passed as spinal came more and more to be looked upon as of cerebral origin. For these reasons American neurologists, Walton and others, proposed instead of " railway spine " the name " railway brain" as more suitable. This was certainly an important forward step for the proper pathological understanding of these affections, especially as the observers drew attention to the affinity which these cases of "railway brain" had with neurasthenia and hysteria. It may be even asserted that it was the exact systematic study of the two last-named diseases which first made it possible at all to arrive at a proper understanding of the nature of the " traumatic neuroses." This expression, "traumatic neuroses," appears to me at present at any rate to be the best we have. It implies first of all nervous affections, the origin of which must be immediately referred to some injury or other. Further, there is implied in the word " neuroses " the supposition that the nervous symptoms in question are not dependent on coarse injuries of any part of the nervous system. Traumatic paralysis through crushed or torn nerves, lesions of the cord or brain from fractures or dis- locations of the vertebraB or fractures of the skull, traumatic hsemorrhages, secondary inflammatory conditions—all of common occurrence, and important as they are—do not belong to the traumatic neuroses. But we must note—and this is the first point of importance—that after certain injuries attended by no coarse lesion of any part of the nervous system, peculiar and serious nervous disturbances may be produced, which may last a long time, and are not infrequently incurable; and, further, that we cannot understand these if we seek their causes in any one of the above-mentioned coarse anatomical changes. Before we go into the question as to how these conditions may be explained, it is proper to treat of their symptoms a little more fully. We shall do this first from the purely clinical and empirical side, and see what practical experience has to teach us. As advantageous in a general survey, it appears to me