126 SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. fibrous layers, I have to add that these gave an intense iron- reaction (with yellow prussiate of potash and hydrochloric acid), as was not the case with an old haematoma, which was examined for the purpose of control. It remained, therefore, doubtful whence the iron was obtained, whether it may not have been deposited from the foreign body. A piece of a needle a few millimetres long was found in a callous cicatrice at the ulnar border of the metacarpus of an hysterical woman.* An irregular iron splinter in the phalanx of an artisan was likewise healed-in, in a hard callous nodule. Here it may be remarked that iron is always found oxydised, even after remaining only a short time in the body. In a child, twelve months of age (Amb. C. B. No. 3483, f. 1889), was found a fragment of a needle, 2-1 cm. long, sticking vertically in the abdomen, above the umbilicus. Its end could just be felt through the abdominal wall. During the incision through the skin and muscles, the needle showed movements corresponding to the respiration. It was easily extracted from the depth of the abdomen by a moderate traction. It was re- markable that the portion of the needle sticking in the abdominal wall was much more oxydised than that which undoubtedly had entered the peritoneal cavity. The needle had been embedded only twenty-four hours. It was observed in rabbits, seven to eight hours after iron needles had been stuck into and through the abdominal wall, that the degree of oxydation of the needles is very different, according to whether the needle stuck in the abdominal wall, in the abdominal cavit}^, or in one of the abdo- minal organs. Especially remarkable is the minute degree of oxydation of the portion of the needle which lay free between the coils of the fat small intestine, whilst the portion situated within the layers of the abdominal wall shows a very strong oxydation. This observation is not without significance in forensic * This case was of some practical interest, as it was perfectly impossible to feel the foreign body. Here the use of the astatic needle, after previous mag- netisation of the fragment, proved efficient, a proceeding which I learned at Prof. Kocher's clinic at Bern, and which had already been practised in England. The needle had already been searched after, but had not been detected by several surgeons. G^^ided by the astatic needle, I succeeded in discovering it without a longer exploration. (See A. Smee: On the detention of needles and other steel instruments impacted in the huvian body. H. Renshaio, Strand, London, \S~b.)