SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 145 autliorities. Neither the medical officers of the Hospital at Wiener Netistadt, nor the patient's own relations, knew of the existence of a hernia. I therefore mention this case merely as an instance of an attempt to employ glass-wool for the radical cure of a relapsing, exceptionally large crural hernia, without, however, being able to report positively as to the final result. Thiem, acting on the suggestion of Gluclc, recently allowed a bundle of catgut to heal-in in the ojDening of an inguinal hernia, endeavouring thus to bring about the formation of induration in the hernial opening, viz;, to effect the radical cure of the hernia. Probably the secondary pathological tissue-formation, tlie resistant cicatrix, Avill also disappear at the same time with the absorption of this tampon, as we have seen take place after injecting alcohol. And Thiem actually reports that half a year after his first, the oldest, radical operation, the cicatrix was apparently considerably thinner.* The pieces of fresh bone employed for filling-in the defects in bones cannot be regarded as carrying out the views of MacJEiven and Adamkieivicz. By the use of absorbable tampons, as in haamatoma, the firm union of the surrounding tissue may be prevented, and on the other hand the reactive alteration of the soft parts of the organised infiltrate may be transient. It may, however, appear hazardous to enclose larger and heavy foreign bodies in the organism, on account of the danger of subsequent suppuration. Billroth, twenty years ago, directed particular attention to the frequent formation of abscesses around bullets, which had long lodged without any reaction, or healed-in. The late setting in of suppuration in these traumatic cases may, * The absorbable tampon has been more frequently proposed in recent times. Besides the older suggestion of Gluck, to use catgut, the Americans especi- ally have invented various methods, viz., N. Senn, decalcified discs of bone hardened in alcohol, and Dr. Eahtead at the New Hospital at Baltimore, demon- strated to me in the course of this year a material for tampons, consisting of delicate threads prepared from the submucous membrane of the pig, and likewise sterilised in alcohol. I have convinced myself of the absorption of this material within two months and a half, in the abdominal cavity of a rabbit, without causing any perceptible reaction. But I have not yet had an opportunity of employing it, notwithstanding the very rich material of the clinic. In England for arresting haemorrhage in uranoplastic operations, and in bleeding from the descending palatine artery, in the canal of the bone, carbo- lised or sublimated wax is employed, which is plugged into the canal, where it may heal-in. But this method of arresting haemorrhage may be dispensed with.