23 LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. We now arrive at tlie phenomena, which, in the fully developed organism, we may accept as the results of the action of formative stimuli. One of the most powerful stimuli we know of, and the most certain in its action, besides fecundation, is the solution of continuity of tissues (from which we except the fluid tissues, as blood, lymph, and pus, in which solution of continuity, strictly speaking, cannot take place.) Whether the tissues be separated from the outside at the same time with the skin, or whether their continuity be anyhow subcutaneously interfered with, the remarkable process will always take place, that at the edges of the point of separation they will, by the division of the nuclei and the cells of their specific tissue elements, enter in some measure into a foetal condition in a certain, though mostly only limited extent, and that a new period of growth will set in, which as a rule is limited to only a few days.* cff to explain, either by mechanical or other kinds of processes, why in this in- stance the growth had been suddenly arrested, and why the epiphysial cartilages did not become ossified as pre-ordained by fate. No more significance than the calling up of " Pate " is the familiar comparison of the building up of the organism by cells with the building up of a house ; the latter pre-supposes a builder who carries out a certain plan. But as we know absolutely nothing of such a builder and a plan in the construction of an organism which, according to the comparison, ought also some time to reach a certain finish; and as modern physiology, on the contrary, maintains that every in- dividual particle of protoplasm constitutes at the same time both builder and building material, so this comparison likewise proves lame, and fails to advance us any further. Finding the greatest enjoyment in the intellectual play with ideas which we derive from our observations of nature, I could not refrain from writing and publishing this little essay in order to relieve my mind at last of these thoughts. In doing so, I, of course, have the feeling that such kind of reflections offer to ourselves, and perhaps also to others, more subjective artistic pleasure than that they objectively advance us in science, and that our imagination is more engaged in it than our intelligence. But where lies the boundary line ? Often already have I put to myself the question, without, however, ever having suc- ceeded in solving it, whether in the composition of the ninth Symphony Beethoven's imagination, sentiment, or intellect, had been the most active. I believe that these our reflections likewise spring from a source which had already existed as a unity before the division of our Psyche into the germinal layers of the intelligence, the sentiment, and the imagination. *Rabl, in a discussion on his paper " On the principles of histology " (" Ueber dit. Principien der Histologie," Verhandlungen der anatomisch'en Geseilschaft, 1889, p. 62). protests against the use of the term " fa'taV and its interpretation. He says, " Cells are elementary organisms, and being such, they are subjected to the same laws as organisms of a higher order, persons, and their parts. Just as little as a higher organism may become degenerated ever so much, and again return to itn