284 PEYER ON ASTHMA AND and strong. He had never had any real illness, had been seven years married, with three children, the youngest being three years old. About four years ago he noticed for the first time a certain oppression and stiffness in the back, especially after hard work. Gradually the pain became at times so severe that he could neither move his body nor stir from his position, not only after hard work and heavy muscular exertion, but even whilst quietly walking or sitting. He even felt his back when lying down. At that time also severe asthmatic attacks appeared without any apparent external cause. They seized him in bed, at work, or when walking quietly along the road ; he was then obliged to remain standing. Later on asthma came on almost daily, at one time lasting from five minutes to a quarter of an hour, at another lasting half a day. No cough and no expectoration. When I saw the patient, his digestion was disturbed, appetite variable, never good; frequently a sense of fulness and distension after meals; bowels sluggish; no emphysema; frequent desire to micturate, withal difficulty in starting the stream, which was not forked. Since his illness began he suffered a good deal from headache ; during the morning his head was heavy and he felt giddy. Memory good as a rule, no depression of spirits ; con- stant lassitude, sleep heavy, dreams rare but oppressive. For some time past he had felt remarkably little inclination for sexual intercourse ; in fact, after coitus he felt quite exhausted, could not speak, and fell into a heavy sleep, only to awake with a severe headache in the morning. Examination of the urine revealed nothing abnormal, except now and then the presence of semen. Local treatment of the sexual affection cured the asthma and spinal irritation. Case V.—Impotence. Spermatorrhoea. Asthna. In October, 1877, Mr. L., merchant, £etat. 30, consulted me for general debility, heaviness of the head, persistent loss of appetite., nausea, frequent vomiting, weakness of memory, and periodic severe attacks of asthma. History. No hereditary taint; two years ago he was quite well, and, in fact, had never had any serious illness. When 15, through bad example, he began to masturbate, and con-