33 LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. more accurately, perhaps, of endothelial) character. The new- connective tissue which is enclosed within the old, is, in contrast to the genuine granulation tissue, but very scantily vascularised; it soon changes into firm cicatricial cheloid tissue, which becomes more and more dense, and finally may even ossify. Suppuration is only brought about in it by accidental causes acting from with- out. Knowing at present that the whole process has been called forth by bacilli, we must say that the bacilli act in the first line as a formative stimulus on the fixed cells of the connective tissue, probably also of the muscles and nerves; but their effect as formative stimulants is but of very short duration. It scarcely comes to a disturbing emigration of leucocytes and excessive vascularisation ; but the effect of the bacilli is merely formative and is soon extinguished; the transformation of a new tissue into a cicatrix takes place with relative rapidity without any kind of disturbance whatever. The process much resembles the formation of the fibrous tubercle, of which anon. The action of the tiihercle hacilli upon the cellular elements of the animal body is much more complicated. The effect of these bacilli, which gi'ow with but moderate vegetative energy, manifests itself, according to Baumgarten, in this, that a more or less rapid division of the nuclei after the various types of the so-called " Karyohinesis" takes place in the fixed elements of the con- nective tissue, by which large flat cells with oval nuclei are pro- duced, which are converted into a firm tissue granule, the iDvimary tiihercle 'pro'per. Thereby under certain conditions also the formation of multinucleated cells more or less frequently comes about—of the so-called " tubercle giant cells " with nuclei attached to the wall and central disintegration. I shall here omit to speak of the " giant cells," which recently have been the subject of so much discussion, and of the manifold hypotheses regarding their origin, as they are not of material im- portance for the fundamental biological processes which now follow. The common fate of tubercles is, as is well known, their disin- tegration into a dry cheesy mass. But before this process is so fiar advanced, dilatation of the vessels with emigration of leuco- cytes, and after that the formation of an envelope of lymphoid or granular tissue, takes place in their immediate neighbourhood. Herewith the central growth of the tubercle generally ceases; D