100 ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. The most usual paths of approach into the body seem to be for children the alimentary tract, and for adults the respiratory passages, though departures from these rules probably occur. In the case of the former, the children, the food is probably the medium in which the infective material is conveyed, and tuber- culosis of the intestine and mesenteric glands is the result; m adults direct inspiration of the bacilli results in tuberculosis of the lung and bronchial glands. In order that the bacilli may find lodo-ment in these organs, and multiply there, we require to. postulate pathological conditions in the tissues in which the pro- pagation takes place. Pathogenic micro-organisms, which may pass into the various organs in a healthy body, are probably easily shaken off, partly through the activity of its secretmg and excreting apparatus, partly also by being taken up into cells, which in all likelihood destroy them, or at all events lower their vitality. Were the normal body not in possession of such defences, the maintenance of its organs in their integrity m the midst of so many microbes would become impossible. In parti- cular the tubercle bacillus would exercise a most hurtful influence in places like consumption hospitals on those who remained within the walls for a longer or shorter time. And yet from the Brompton Hospital, as I previously mentioned, Dr. Wiiiiams reports the opposite, namely, the fact, established by statistics, that tubercular disease among the physicians, nurses, and officials there does not occur oftener than among the town-population m general. Only when we add to the opportunity for infection the fatal predisposition, in which we must assume the existence of small defensive power in the cells against a hostile substance can we understand the power of the germ to obtam a firm ho d of the tissues, and find the necessary conditions for its growth and spread. I have said that for the protection of the body we must rely according to our present knowledge, on the mamtenance of normal digestion, on the healthy activity of secretion from he bronchial mucous membrane, and on the vital energy of ttie amoeboid cells. We may now consider it as proved that the normal gastric juice digests the bacteria introduced along with The food^or at aiiy rate renders them incapable of reproduction. But on ihe other hand the various disturbances of function m the Lnach, a neutral or alkaline character of the juice, processes of Mentation or decomposition among the contents, all these