rEYER ON EiNURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 338 cises). In consequence he became more and more languid; in the morning his head was heavy, at times ached severely, and he often noticed a dall oppression on the chest. When I saw him in April, 1878, he wetted the bed regularly every night, headache occurred daily, and often incapacitated him from doing any work. His expression was distinctly effeminate, his voice was thin like a girl's; the genital organs were almost infantile in development. Local treatment, consisting in introducing full-sized metallic bougies, and in the use of astringent injections, lasted with long periods of interruption nearly a year. In the end the patient was completely cured. Case V.—A. 0., a3tat. 16, blacksmith's apprentice, from the canton of Thurgau, had been troubled with nocturnal incon- tinence from birth. His father had also suffered from the same trouble, whereas the patient's two brothers remained quite free. For his age he was a very well-developed, strong lad, and in every other respect quite healthy. When he was 12 he almost outgrew the weakness, which occurred rarely. About this time 0. began to masturbate, and nocturnal incontinence became again frequent. He always wetted the bed if he had masturbated the previous evening, and very often incontinence of urine would occur several nights following. This fact struck the patient so much that he himself connected the wetting of the bed with masturbation. Up to that time he had not had any seminal emissions during sleep. The enuresis nocturna became more and more marked. The member was large and well-developed, the glans covered by the prepuce, which was not too long, and no phimosis existed. Urine pale colour, no albumen or sugar; by transmitted light, specks could be seen floating in the urine, which, under the microscope, consisted of fragments of transparent pavement epithelium, connected with mucus filaments here and there nucleated, and enclosing spermatic filaments, and a fair number of solitary and grouped leucocytes. After the first application of the psychrophor, enuresis occurred but once in the following week, and in the course of three months, under repeated treatment, the troublesome affection disappeared. Case VI.—Sch., setat. 20, peasant, native of the Black