227 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. treatment or none at all. Instances occur of suspension of the progress of the affection for ten, fifteen, or thirty years, even of its coming to a full stop. I have myself seen, and still have under my eye, cases of the latter. It is therefore impossible at present to be certain about the causal relation between syphilis and locomotor ataxia, and we can perhaps hardly expect the matter to be cleared up until both our diagnosis and our treatment are under the guidance of pathological histology, and a knowledge of the pathogenic micro- organism of syphilis. At present we can only say this much, (1) that there is a causal relationship between syphilis and locomotor ataxia, and (2) that the treatment of a case of locomotor ataxia on antisyphilitic lines is only indicated in the initial stage of the case, and where there is no doubt about the syphilitic infection. We come finally to consider syphilitic disease of the peripheral nerves. That there is such a thing is beyond doubt, and the occurrence of a syphilitic neuritis seems to me to be even commoner than we have hitherto assumed. The microscopic examination of nerve trunks affected with this neuritis shows the same changes as characterise the specific disease of the central nervous system—the peculiar vascular changes, proliferation of nuclei in the lymphatic sheaths, formation of swellings by means of infiltration of granulation cells into the perivascular lymph spaces, absence of the tendency to degenerate, breakdown, or suppurate, rather a steady persistence of the condition of irritation, eventually regression with hyperplasia of the connective tissue and cicatricial shrinking. The clinical features may be gathered from this description—an obstinate affection with persistent symptoms of irritation and moderate disturbance of function. The most usual form is syphilitic neuralgia from neuritis of sensory and mixed nerves. It may occur in any nerve, but the trigeminal and the sciatic are the commonest seats. It occurs along with other syphilitic processes, especially with specific periostitis of the skull, or with disturbances in the ocular muscles, pupil, &c. In this way it is of great importance in a case of obstmate sciatica, in one who has had syphilis or is yet syphilitic, to note the occurrence of ptosis, paralysis of ocular muscles, any difference in the size of the pupils, or absence of the pupillary