HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 156 Eetiology as well as in therapeusis was gained, but the pathology of the disease remained veiled in complete obscurity. All the theories that have been advanced from that time to the middle of the present century rested on purely hypothetical grounds. Every one of them started from the supposition that carbo-hydrates of the food were abnormally speedily converted into sugar by means of some ferment (Bouchardat), or that the normal quantity of sugar was less rapidly consumed owing to diminished alkal- inity of the blood (Mialhe). Not only was there then, as now, no anatomical ground for these theories, but also no scientific basis in the absence of information concerning the origin and consumption of sugar in the animal economy. The enumeration of all these theories, and of the names of their propounders, has but a historic value, and cannot be given within the limits of this article. The researches of Claude Bernard are the first to bear a scientific character, as set forth in his fundamental treatises: " The Formation of Sugar in the Liver, 1848"; "Glycogen found in the Liver, 1850 " ; "Artificial Excretion of Sugar by means of XDuncture of the floor of the fourth ventricle, 1854." 0. Schmidt and Thompson had already demonstrated that sugar is a normal constituent of the blood, though this was not definitely ascertained to be grape sugar till 1875 by Abeles At the outset an exact determination of the amount in the blood was surroiTnded with difficulties. No chemical method was known by which sugar could be isolated from the blood owmg to the albumens having a disturbing influence in the reduction of the copper (Fehling's test). It was not until Schmidt-Mulheim published their method of eliminating the albumens that the statements of workers came into general agreement. The physiological amount of sugar present in the blood varies from • 08—-15 per cent. These variations are due to the quality and quantity of food, to the time when taken, to the condition of the muscles, and to other factors of which we know but little. The most important questions then to solve, were, L Where is the seat of the manufacture of sugar ? XL What are its ante- cedents ^ HI. What nervous influence is at work during the formation of sugar ? Claude Bernard answered these questions categorically. He maintained that the liver is exclusively the seat of the formation of sugar, as is proved first, because the liver itself contains sugar; second, because the blood