98 ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. show further that the entry of tubercle into the system is fre- quently aided by the occurrence of inflammatory attacks m the respiratory organs. Pneumonias which do not regress m the regular way play a prominent part here. No doubt many of these attacks are not merely conditions favouring infection but the results of an infection which has already taken place. Oases of pneumonia of this kind frequently fall under our observation in hospital. They quite resemble, to begin with, the genmne croupous type, and only the presence of bacilli m the sputum enables us to stamp them as of tubercular origin. The experience of hospitals in which there are a large number of phthisical cases, either mixed up among the other cases or m special divisions by themselves, is of peculiar value m this dis- cussion The numbers indicating tubercular disease among the other patients in such hospitals, or among the nurses and servants, are not greater than they are among the general population outside The phvsicians, nurses, and ofBcials of the Brompton Hospital for Oonsumption-the largest consumption hospital m the world-do not, according to Williams's statements, m spite of the bad ventilation and the imperfect cleansing of the spittoons, &c fall victim's to tuberculosis more readily than the inhabitants of populous towns in general, and only three or four cases of the disease could be attributed to infection received m the house. Yet we must not attach too much importance to these numbers, for the attendants in large hospitals, as we know very frequently change, and it is only rarely that nurses remam for a long period of years in the service. When they do, the number of instances of infection met with is greater. _ The religious nursing sisterhoods are m the worst case. Then members (except in the case of those orders who take m hand he attendance on the sick at their own homes) are very little m the open air and are exposed to all the hurtful influences which I Ze 2ady shown iLlispose to phthisis: hard work W eaHy morning to late at night, frequent sitting up during the night Ltrict!d diet, much time consumed in reb^ious exercises, and a tly, too little time for recreation in the fresh air a.ad m the ountry. Exposed to such a stram as this, it is certainly not surprising if their bodily frames suffer, and offer an easy lodg- men to the tubercle bacillus. Here in Munich, among the Asters of Mercy in our own large hospital, we have seen one af tei