93 rREDISPOSlTION. Uterine infection is yet matter of controversy. That a cMd s often tubercular, and has been so for years, while it is all the while held as perfectly sound, we sometimes see proved by acci- dent. The examination of a single swollen gland, taken wi h every precaution from a child apparently in the best of health, will reveal in its interior giant-cells and bacilli. How long have these already been in the body? And are there still other foci of infection in the glands ? Who can determme these points ? One more fact deserves mention here. During the last great epidemic of measles in Munich, Bollinger (I learned this m con- versation with him), when examining the bodies of children who had died of measles, was able on several occasions to demonstrate the presence of tubercle bacilli in the lymphatic glands, especially in those at the root of the lung and in the mediastinum, ihe children in question were said to have been previously quite healthy, and more particularly had not been scrofulous, ihis important statement places in quite a new light the fact that children so frequently fall into tubercular disease after measles. The measles has not caused the tuberculosis; the latent tuber- culosis is merely brought to light by the measles. Probably the majority of the cases of tuberculosis in youth are preceded by an affection of the glands of many years standmg, the_ latter so frequently manifesting itself as the scrofula of childhood. All this, nevertheless, does not prove that the infective agent is present at conception, or m uiero. It might quite well be that the bacillary invasion has taken place in the first or second years of life, either through a slight wound, a method which some observations render probable, or through infected milk, &c. But we always come back upon the fact that all these possible ways are of actual importance only in the case of children of tuber^ cular or latently tubercular parents. Experience forces on us the assumption that the absolutely sound human organism must have a very great power of resisting the lodgment of the bacillus, and that the latter only finds a permanent abode in the lungs, intestines, &c., when certain conditions are present favourable to the settlement and propagation of the micro-organism. These unknown pathological conditions we call the predisposition to tuberculosis, and mean by that a certain constitution of the tissues of the organism, in virtue of which they afford a favour- able soil for the settlement of the virus. Without the assumption