AND ITS TREATMENT. 67 Anotlier form of sleeiilessness occurs among such neurasthenics as suffer simply from the excess of mental labour which tlie brain has for years been compelled to perform, combined with physical exertion and an irregular mode of life. Agrypnia here exists merely in the sense of an absence of sleep ; sleep comes not, the patient is wakeful without feeling a craving for sleep until the morning hours, which at last bring a few hours' repose. It is astonishing to what a degree this sleeplessness may attain in men and women of high intellectual development without seriously interfering with their working power. Even when sleep lasts only for two or three hours each night, the patient may never- theless remain for a long time perfectly vigorous and capable of activity. In the long run, however, this is not kept up, and the longer the disturbance takes to come on, the graver it is. Finally, work is put aside, change of scene resorted to, physical exercise taken, and every other means adopted; but the sleeplessness persists obstinately—more obstinately indeed than any other symptom—especially among patients advanced in years, whose physiological need for sleep is therefore diminishing. The difference in the action of hypnotic drugs in individual cases is also interesting. Whilst the hypnotics proper—morphia, chloral, and paraldehyde—generally act very promptly on patients who lose their sleep through conditions of mental disquietude— however different may be the reaction of individual cases tx3 individual drugs, some who are intolerant of morphia becoming furiously addicted to chloral, and others again attaining sleep only by means of the bromides—the hypnotics have usually no effect worth mentioning on patients who lie awake simply because they feel no need for sleep. They lie, perhaps, more restfully and with pleasanter sensations, but no sleep comes on, so that finally the attempts to produce sleep in such cases by means of drugs are quickly abandoned. Among the sjpinal symptoms^ the fain in the hade stands in the front rank, in the majority of cases. Sometimes it is a fixed pain in one vertebra or another, sometimes a vague pain in the whole vertebral column, sometimes a feeling of painful fatigue, of creeping, or burning, or pressure; sometimes the pain is called forth by movements, sometimes it is at its worst in the sitting or recumbent posture. Spots painful on pressure are frequently present, especially over the superior dorsal or the cervical