ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROniY. 257 the features of progTessive muscnlar dystrophy, and another similar case in which the deformity was caused hy bilateral operations in the supraclavicular fossae. Certain surgical affections, for example, bilateral dislocation of the hip joint, flail joints, &c., ma}'-, on account of the secondary muscular lesions, imitate the disease, but as a rule a careful history and examination will clear up such cases. And now, gentlemen, that we have got so far, let us see what we can learn from pathological anatomy, and inquire whether this is favourable or not to our view of the clinical unity of the various forms of dystrophy. In this region we are no doubt still moving on uncertain ground and amid much discussion, but gradually matters are clearing up, and that, as far as I can see, favourably for our views. I shall, however, be as brief as possible in what I have to say. I have myself examined excised pieces of muscle from a whole series of cases of the most varied types. Other observers have done the same, and quite recently several autopsies have been made in juvenile, infantile, and pseudo-hypertrophic forms ; we have at our command, therefore, a fair quantity of material. Taking first of all the changes in the muscles themselves, I may begin by saying that the results of the examination of muscle obtained post-mortem thoroughly agree with the results of the examination of portions excised during life. Further, so far as I can at present judge, the condition of the muscles in all the various forms of dystrophy is in all essential points almost precisely alike; apparent difierences are brought about only through quantitative distinctions in the various histological changes, and through varying combinations of these changes at different stages of the disease in different muscles and in different individuals. The differences between individual muscles in the same patient are not less than those between muscles from different forms of dystrophy, and it is thus quite legitimate to represent all these forms as varieties of one disease. On the present occasion, however, we are not going beyond a brief out- line of the features of the disease. Formerly the greatest stress was laid on the changes in the interstitial connective tissue. These were looked upon as the S