DISEASES OF TIJE GENERATIVE OIUiANS. 281 Formerly the bowels had acted regularly, but during the last two years their action became noticeably frequent. At first twice, then foiu- to five times a day, with regular intermissions. Then periods occurred when ho had severe diarrhc^a—12 to 15 evacuations daily—lasting from one to two Aveeks without any apparent cause. Treatment had but a temporary effect and it usually ceased of itself. On various occasions Mr. F. had been troubled with worms, and he vomited a large one a short time ago. He had been married a year, and recently his wife was confined of a healthy child. Physical examination revealed tolerably marked anasmia, faucial catarrh, slight chronic enlargement of the tonsils, a swollen, bluish red, pendulous uvula, and moderate pulmonary emphysema. On rising the patient always hawked up a scanty phlegm; he seldom coughed. Heart and abdominal organs normal. Chemical examination of the urine revealed nothing abnormal; at the bottom of the urine glass a slight cloudy sedi- ment settled, which I unfortunately did not examine micro- scopically, as, from the history of the case, I thought there was no indication for it. Diagnosis. First and foremost I sought a connection between all the symptoms which would present a complete picture of the disease, and proceeded thus. Here we had for several years past chronic gastric and enteric catarrh, as shown by loss of appetite and constant diarrhoea, caused by immoderate drinking and smoking. The enteric catarrh was probably kept up by the presence of worms, which had been noticed several times. The chronic faucial catarrh, hypertrophy of the uvula, and chronic tonsillitis were likewise referable to his smoking and drinking. The almost periodic attacks of nasal catarrh I could not account for; I had never seen anything similar before. In any case, however, I regarded it as connected with the chronic faucial catarrh. There was in all probability a causal relationship between the gastric catarrh and the asthma; the latter I regarded as a reflex nervous affection. This view was corroborated by the attacks coming on after excessive drinking, and also perhaps, as I thought, by the presence of worms in the alimentary canal. Fi-om the very first the presence of pulmonary emphysema and of