STliUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 319 considered to be the simple results of the bruise, and only after some time has passed, and the symptoms in question are still persisting, does the thought arise that there are other conditions to be reckoned with. One of the commonest symptoms is a hyperassthesia of the affected extremity, which sometimes goes to an extreme degree. It is felt on passive movement, or with deep pressure, or even with the slightest touch on the skin. The limb, even in the cases where there is no great contracture (see below) is held in a peculiarly stiff and constrained position. If it is quite at rest there are, as a rule, no special sensations of pain. On every attempt at passive movement, and on the occasion of any careful examination by the medical attendant, the patient makes active efforts with the sound parts of the body for the defence of the injured part. If we attempt, nevertheless, to move the limb, loud cries of pain follow. Sometimes, as we have said, the hyperesthesia is limited to the deeper parts, while in other cases even the skin shows uncommon tenderness. I treated for a long time a girl of 12 years of age who had suffered from a fall on the right arm, and in whom the skin over that part (without there being any definite nervous area involved) was so hyperffisthetic that not even the gentlest touch could be borne without loud complaint. The condition lasted almost a year. All treatment was without effect, but she gradually recovered completely. Besides hypersesthesia, anesthesia not infrequently occurs. In particular the association of hyperesthesia on passive move- ment with anesthesia of the skin is pretty common. The latter may be present in a very high degree, and a fold of the skin may be transfixed with a needle without the patient having the slightest sensation. The anesthesia probably always extends a good way beyond the seat of the injury, but in genuine cases of local neurosis is always limited to the affected limb. I have seen, for example, among other cases total anesthesia of the whole arm up to the shoulder after a bruise of the elbow-joint. No doubt the anesthesia may extend still more widely, and in particular sometimes over the whole corresponding side of the body. This, however, is the ordinary hysterical hemianesthesia of traumatic origin (see below). Besides local anesthesia we may have, of course, different degrees of mere blunting of the