94 ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. of this predisposition, which may be either inherited or acquired, we cannot proceed. Such a predisposition exists for other infec- tious diseases, such as typhoid, cholera, and dysentery; why not also for tuberculosis ? What this predisposition really is which plays a part in the theory of the setiology of tuberculosis, second only to that of heredity, we do not know. We know of course in a general way how a man looks who bears a hereditary burden of this sort; we know, further, what causes combine to produce the predisposition; but as to wherein its real nature consists, and as to what are the morj)hological, chemical, or physiological changes to which it owes its origin, we are quite in the dark. Even the external' appearances characteristic of the hereditary tendency, and forming the jpMhisical hahit as it is called, often help us very little. The slender frame, flat chest, thin limbs, and delicate complexion, the weakness of the blood-vessels in the mucous membranes and proneness to epistaxis, the liability to laryngeal catarrh, the frequent attacks of palpitation and flushing, the circumscribed malar redness, and so forth, all these are certainly ver}' marked in many cases, but we often also see several or all of them absent. Look at the number of young people in robust health who become tubercular in spite of a well-knit frame, firm muscles, a good complexion, and all the other marks of health! As for the acquired predisposition, all the weakening influences which attend in so rich measure on human life are the agents for its production. Among these are insufiicient food, insanitary dwellings and ways of life, too little sleep, want of fresh air, worries, sorrows, looking after and sitting up at night with the sick, bodily and mental strain, previous illness, childbed, &c. There is no single one of the list that has so deleterious an effect on the resisting power of the tissues and the cells as the want of fresh air and sufficient exercise. The working of these injurious agencies can be most accurately studied among the inhabitants of such places as prisons, convict establishments, and religious houses. Here the restrictions on free movement and the enjoy- ment of fresh air work in a great many ways, though it may be difficult to estimate the share each of them has in the total result. The essential considerations are these: the air in the apartments which are kept closed, especially in the sleeping rooms, is impure and malodorous, contains dust and low forms of life, is poor in