LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 19 It is self-evident that formative stimuli only can take effect if the nutritive processes be at the same time increased. Increased nutrition, however, does not always result in a new formation, i.e., an increase of tissue elements, and as little also increase of function. A certain specific property must therefore he attributed to the formative stimulus. This will not likely be disputed as regards the alterations which take place in fully developed organisms. In growing organisms, however, nutrition and formation are so intimately blended that they cannot be thought of separated even for the shortest moment. The action of the spermatoid on the ovum appears to me as the highest exercise of power of a specific formative stimulus and of a specific formative irritability. Let us submit the processes herein involved to a summary examina- tion. A series of Algae of the lowest order, to which also belong the so-called " 8chizo-" and " Phyco-mycetes," which are of special interest (Bacteria, Cocci, and yeast-plants), only multiply by continuous division of cells ; favourable (fluid or soft) conditions of the soil suflSce to keep up their intrinsic formative irritability for a considerable time, but will finally prove capable of ex- haustion for vegetations produced by a certain generation in the same nutritive medium. There nutrition and formation go entirely hand in hand; the essential in the life of these organisms is just their multiplication; we may say of these organisms that we only can recognise their life in, and by, their multiplication. The first phenomenon which we can bring into relation with conjugation is the appearance of Zygospores (Q'esting-spores), which are even found in so low an order of Algge as the bacteria (resting- spores have not yet been observed in cocci). In these the con- tents of the cell, in which up to this moment a continuous division had taken place, contract to a solid globule, which henceforth remains for some time at rest, may become completely desiccated like a seed-grain, but afterwards germinates when brought under favourable conditions of moisture and temperature, and growing more or less luxuriantly according as it subsequently finds assimilable nutritive matter (of which anon), produces a new Alga identical with that from which the spore first sprang. A somewhat difierent process takes place in the Mucorini (to which order the moulds belong). In these a firm conjugation takes place between the terminal points of two filaments of the