TREATMENT 0¥ CHKONIC DISEASE OK THE SPINAL COKP. 387 111 men, oi- change in the form and position of the womb in yvomr .1. If we do nothing else than attend to these, it is quite possible that our endeavours may not only prove ineffectual to cure the neurosis, but may even leave it worse than thev found it. Drugs take a subordinate position among the remedies at our command, though some physicians, especially in America, lay great stress on them, and have hit upon some very complicated formula. Those mostly used are nux vomica and its preparations, arsenic, tonics like iron and quinine, and the bromides. With none of them can we count on anything like astonishing success, to say nothing of recovery. From my own experience I should say that nux vomica and arsenic were the least trustworthy of the whole of them. Tonics are useful as adjuncts to other modes of treatment, but by themselves they hardly deserve mention. Bromides are relatively the most effective. They only^ suit those cases in which there is a markedly irritable condition, indicated by pain, very troublesome parsesthesige, sexual excitement, &c., and must be given in rather larger doses than usual—60 to 90 grains daily. Derivatives are of no particular use for the general condition : they are best employed to combat symptoms, especially the backache which is so much complained of, but very commonly they only give ease for a time. The most valuable remedies we at present possess are undoubtedly electricity and hydro-therapeutics, and in Germany, at any rate, we are coming more and more to recognise this.' Of the various ways in which electricity may be applied, galvanisation of the back is perhaps the best. Applied with the necessary care and persistence, it unquestionably gives very good results in a great number of cases. Current densities of moderate strength, such as ,1=^^, should be used, the duration of the sitting should be gradually lengthened, and the part of the cord most affected (generally the lumbar portion) should receive special attention. On the other hand, it is often good practice to treat the periphery in this way, such as the lower extremities and the sexual organs. In many cases we get equal success from general faradisation, applied according to the method of Beard and Rockwell; indeed, now and then this gives distinctly better results. A number of years ago I explained in a little publication!"" the special excellencies ot^this