STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 306 cases in so constant a .fashion as to give us in their totality a thoroughly characteristic set of symptoms, forming the clinical picture of general traumatic neurosis. We must have regard first of all to the psychical condition of the patients. I cannot refrain here fi'om remarking that, un- fortunately, in the case of a large number of patients the requisite attention is not paid to the mental symptoms. And yet there are a number of morbid conditions which the physician will never rightly comprehend, without paying attention to these symptoms. We must accustom ourselves to take account even of the more trifling psychical alterations. These are undoubtedly much commoner, and therefore practically much more important, than the more severe, just as coughs and catarrhs are commoner than pneumonia or tuberculosis. The more severe kinds of mental disturbance, indeed, are quite recognisable, even by the laity. Of course the practitioner in private practice often meets with great difficulties in the way of rightly judging of the mental condition, which he would not have to contend with in a hospital or similar institution. The mental disturbance in traumatic neurosis exhibits chiefly the features of melancholia, mostly of the hypochondriacal type. Many of the patients are fully conscious of the change in them- selves. They tell us that previously they were of a cheerful and contented disposition, but that now they take no pleasure in anything. They sit silent in the midst of their families, and keep out of the way of the company of old friends; nothing apparently interests them. Their thoughts are continually playing about the incidents of the accident and its results, and the only occasions on which they talk freely are when they are speaking of these. At such times, however, we can note how thoroughly they are convinced of the serious consequences which the accident has had for them, and how deeply they are persuaded that they will never enjoy health again, never be able to attain to their old strength and energy. These dismal convictions often bring on a state of excitement, and the patients in the course of conversation will begin to weep. In such conditions we may even have hallucinations and delirium coming on although these are very much rarer than the above-mentioned states of slight melancholia. With the latter is closely associated a peculiar weakness of will and lack of energy, with anxious