TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 389 the instrument whicli is used for the massage of the various parts afiected, while the other pole is connected with some indifferent spot on the body. Massage also, as is well-known, plays an important part in the Weir-Mitchell treatment, and in cases where the body is very much reduced we often get results by the help of this latter method which we can attain to in no other way. Whatever kind of treatment we may choose, it is absolutely necessary to regulate the whole mode of life. The diet must be simple but nutritious; alcoholic liquor must be taken in great moderation, the patient must be a good deal in the open air, and moving about as much as his strength will permit, and he must have only moderate mental occupation. Sexual intercourse must be limited, and even for a time forbidden in some cases, and all causes of sexual excitement must be avoided. There are one or two remarks I should like to make in concluding. Not much more than twenty years have passed away since om- master, Eomberg, was ready to stand by his famous saying in regard to the fate of those affected with tabes : "There is no prospect of recovery for patients with this disease; the staff has been broken over each." The saying was no doubt a perfectly just one at that time, but fortunately has ceased to be true for a number of years. Recoveries from locomotor ataxia have been recorded by thoroughly trustworthy physicians, and I know of sevei'al cases myself, even in those who have not had syphilis. And, in a similar way, in a great variety of organic affections of the cord, treatment has been attended by distinct success, improvement, and even recovery. But these facts must not lead us to over-estimate our abilities. Encourage ing as the advance is which has taken place in the treatment of these diseases in the last twenty years, we must yet allow that we are only jast setting out, and that almost all the way still lies before us. But just on that account it is of the utmost importance that, in our anxiety to press forward, we should not get into any false track. There was a time when every affection of the spinal cord was attributed to excesses, and the poor sufferer, in addition to his disease, had to contend with this odious prejudice. At the present day, again, many are inclined to refer the majority of them to microbes and toxines, and