ZIEIISSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. 209 —these symptoms warrant the diagnosis of a syphilitic cerebral tumour, if it is certain there has been previous syphilis, and if the patient is still young or not past middle life. Of course in a case like this the favourable result of antisyphilitic treatment after- wards is of great value for the confirmation of the diagnosis. I would like, however, further to draw your attention to some general considerations which may be important in this connec- tion. In a case of syphilitic disease of the brain substance, as a rule the symptoms are not so purely those of cerebral tumour as in other kinds of growth, for in addition to these we have those produced by the lesions in the vessels and membranes. Besides focal symptoms, therefore, we have disturbances in the circulation, in the sensations, and in the intelligence. Again, the epilepti- form attacks are generally very severe, of long duration, and often followed by after-pain persisting for several days. Between the more serious attacks there may come numerous slighter fits of an apoplectic and epileptiform nature, pareses of single cranial nerves, attacks of giddiness or sensory disturbance, often only lasting for a moment, variations in the intensity of the headache and in the general motor and intellectual weakness. When cerebral syphilis takes the form, not of tumour, but of syphilitic disease of the vessels, the diagnosis is more difficult. The importance of this arteritis luetica for the central nervous system becomes more evident the more thoroughly it is studied. Attention has only been turned to the affection during the last thirty or forty years, and we may perhaps consider the Danish physician Steenberg the proper discoverer of the connection of this form of arteritis with syphilis. Before his work, which appeared in 1860, isolated observations of disease in the larger arteries of the brain had indeed been published by Virchow, Dittrich, Bristowe, Graefe, and others; but Steenberg was the first to distinctly recognise the alterations in the vessel-walls as syphilitic and thus give a definite direction to the whole inquiry. Since then E. Wagner and his pupil Heubner have made a careful study of the finer structural changes in the vessel-wall, and it is especially to Heubner's work, which appeared in 1874, on syphilis of the cerebral arteries that this association, at once so interesting and so practically important, has been generally recognised. The discussion on the point whether this specific process begins in the intima as Heubner thinks, or in the media or adventitia as P