TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 365 attention to tlie current-density as well as to the current strength; but this way of looking at the subject has only been generally recognised during the last three years, and since the publication of Miiller's investigations. If we compare the current-densities used now-a-days in the treatment of spinal disease with those which, so far as can be ascertained, were customary in the first years of galvano-therapy, we find all over a tendency to the use of much weaker currents. Nevertheless there are still very great difierences between the views of various authorities. Lewandowsky*^* allows in the direct treatment of the cord a current-density of from to to 2V, at the utmost tV- Muller*2 with his method of passing the current horizontally and shifting the electrode along the spme as has been described, allows generally about tV—to put it more exactly A; in cir- cumscribed lesions he employs on an average A, but may go at times as low as 3V or less. Erlenmeyer^^ ^oes not go beyond tIt. On the other hand, Kemak** holds that it is not at any rate indispensable to have currents so weak as these in order to get good results; he comes to this conclusion because "the early successes which insured the adoption of the method were, so far as we can estimate now the strength of the currents used by E. Kemak and his immediate successors, attained with very much stronger current-densities" than those quoted above. And Bernhardt*^ recommends in tabes current-densities of ou—6u square cm.' while De Watteville,*^ in chronic myelitis, uses 20—40 elements which certainly correspond to much greater densities than those employed by C. W. Miiller and Lewandowsky. Erb*^ advises the use of weak currents in the direct treatment of the cord, at the same time speaking of densities of aT^iul'^'aquare cm. " sufiicient." In utilising actual experience for the purpose of estimating the current densities we are to employ, there are two or three conditions which I have long thought must be observed. First, the cases on which we are to found must have been treated by electricity alone. Second, both the immediate effect of single sittings on the condition of the patient, and the ultimate general result, must allow of no doubt of the beneficial results of the * I must not omit here to notice Lewandowsky's excellent work on " Electro- diagnosis and Electro-therapeutics," which was published last year. His careful treatment of the matter from the side of elementary physics is spocinUy adxpted to the needs of the physician, and makes the book a capital introduction to the subject.