388 LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE method, and I content myself on the present occasion with pointing out that it is particularly useful in those cases of myelasthenia in which the motor activity is very seriously affected. Faradic baths have been recently recommended in various quarters (Ischewsky,^°^ Stein.^*'^ Eulenburg,^°^ Lehr,^*'^&c.) as a very convenient way in which to apply general faradisation. I do not doubt in the slightest that the reports of the beneficial effect of these baths are correct, but from my own experience I can hardly think it the case that we may look to them for all the good that we get from general faradisation, according to the method of Beard and Rockwell. Statical electricity has been tried both by myself and others within the last few years; there is nothing particular to say about it, and further observations are necessary before we can form any conclusion as to its value. Of hydro-therapeutic methods, half-baths, at a temperature of 77°—86° Fahr., followed by a pail douche with the water at a somewhat lower temperature, or the rapid wash-down, or the wet sheet, followed by a wash-down—all these may be employed with advantage. With the two latter methods the water can —as the treatment goes on—be used some degrees lower than the lowest limit permissible in organic disease. Individuals in fairly vigorous health can bathe in lakes or rivers provided the temperature is at least 72°. Those who are in a weakly condition, and who are very susceptible to temperature, should be recommended to use brine baths of from 89° to 93°, or indifferent thermal baths ; and, if there is distinct anemia, chalybeate baths. Sea bathing, as a rule, is only to be used afterwards; the same holds good of mountain air, so far, at any rate, as the enjoyment of this is to interfere with the continuance of the hydro-therapy. In spite of the fact that mountain resi- dence usually exerts a very beneficial influence on the general condition of the patient, it does not suffice by itself, as a rule, to effect a permanent cure. In certain cases massage may be used in support of other methods of treatment; it is particularly serviceable in weakness of the legs and back, and in some kinds of backache. The massage may be performed in the ordinary way, or it may be associated with general faradisation—faradic massage; in the latter case we use a particular instrument, e.g., the " massirroUe," contrived by Dr. Stein of Frankfurt. The one pole of an induction battery is brought into connection with