102 ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. as Baer found among prisoners, and as we see among our Sisters of Mercy. The patients get tliin and anasmic, they lose their appetite and strength. There is no cough, no shortness of breath, no respiratory difficulty of any kind, and yet physical examination already reveals infiltration in one or both apices. This is charac- teristic, of course, only of the more profound degrees of weakness in the cells, such as we get in prisons and nunneries, but in such cases of great weakness we are entitled to infer a lowered measure of resisting power. I wish here to bring into the discussion a question of practical importance, namely, the causes of the predilection for the apices which tuberculosis shows. That such a predilection exists does not require to be proved; it is the physician's daily experience. Hitherto it has been assumed that the tubercle bacilli settle in the apices on account of the want of inspiratory expansion in these regions, in consequence of which the movement of the an- in the bronchioles and alveoli is defective, and this in turn leads to stagnation of the secretions and inflammatory products. On these grounds the frequency of phthisis was explained in people whose occupations entailed sedentary habits and stooping posi- tions, as, for example, tailors. Hanau, however, has lately expressed an opinion, and sup- ported it as I believe with sound reasons, that the predisposition of the apices depends not on any shortcoming in inspiration, but on the fact that expiration is more difficult in these parts. That the inspiratory powers of the apices are fully developed, we can see very well in a disease like coal-miner's phthisis, where these portions are the first and most seriously afiected, and Ai-nold's experiments on animals are in agreement herewith. And^ as to the effect of the stooping position in the case of men, this will simply convert the costo-abdominal into almost a purely costal type of respiration, seeing that the downward movement of the diaphragm will be much hindered by the narrowing of the space in the abdomen. Among women, again, the costal is the normal tyiDe, and the supposition that in this sex there is msufficient expansion at the apices is d^^nori quite unjustifiable. While, then, there is no sufficient foundation for the inspiration theory, the expiration theory has all the more to be said for it. Mendelssohn deduced theoretically, and observations made by me on individuals whose thoracic muscles were deficient, definitely