168 HOFMEISTKK ON DIABETES MELLITUS. mucous membrane throughout is generally dry, and the secretion of all the glands is strongly acid (lactic acid ?). The tongue is frequently enlarged in breadth as well as in thickness, dry, fissured at the sides, rough at the apex, and bright red. The gums are spongy, discoloured, and tend to bleed; the teeth carious and loosened; and the soft palate presents a white appearance due to slight thrush. Leucoplakia of the tongue and buccal mucous membrane is observed at times, and irregular shrivelling of its papillas. Other disturbances of digestion, as loss of appetite, nausea, eructation, vomiting, constipation, or diarrhoea are as frequently present as absent. From personal experience I cannot accept the statement of many observers that digestive troubles are scarcely ever absent in diabetes. The skin suffers from several affections. As a rule it is cool and dry to the touch, harsh, lax, and branny. In a few cases there is a tendency to frequent and excessive perspiration, either locally or universally. Pruritus (itching) may appear any- where, but especially in those regions which are liable to come in contact with the sugar-laden urine; thus in the male, the praeputium and glans penis (often producing balanitis); in the female, the vulva. Pruritus pudendi is so frequently present in diabetes that it would be a grave error of omission in such cases not to examine the urine. Furunculosis (frequently recurring boils in various regions, which heal with difficulty) has been observed in diabetes from the very earliest times, and in fact it may precede the disease by along interval. Carbuncle, however, is a much later afiection. and often indeed the immediate cause of death. The temperature of the body is subnormal in most" diabetics; it may sink 2° 0. (3*6 F.) below normal, and in coma diabeticorum actually as low as 30° 0. (86° F.) in the axilla. Hence patients feel cold even in summer and wrap themselves up in warm clothes, as they learn by experience that their condition becomes worse whenever they get a chill. It is still uncertain what is the cause of the depression of temperature. Some refer it to the non-consumption of sugar as a heat producer, others to the copious cold drinks, to diminished intake of oxygen, or lastly to a disturbance of the thermic centre. At any rate, no constant relation exists between bodily temperature anr]