LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. I'l towards progress commences it is perceived by minds which, irresistibly attracted by this movement, are at first carried away by it and soon themselves turn the wheels by the force of their own labour. This we have witnessed in Histology, in the history of evolution, in Pathological Anatomy and Histology, in Physi- ology and in Surgery. We shall now consider the views which have been formed on the relation of " Pathogenic Mtcrohes " to the tissues of the animal body.* We must, above all, clearly understand that only a groiving and muUipltfing organism can become dangerous to the healthy animal living tissue, and that only in the case luhen its assimi- lative energy is more intense than that of the tissue-cells. The cocci and bacteria, after their ingress into the respective tissue fluids, must not only be able to live, to continue their existence, but they must also be stimulated by their reception to an energetic activitg of growth, to vigorous reproduction. One might here already say, the products of change of matter of the animal tissue cells furnish the formative stimulus for the vegetable cells (the microbes) in a manner the reverse of what takes place in the formation of galls, of which anon. It will scarcely be of any importance what the microbes add by their probable inherent poisons. The effects of their gro^ivth can at first merely be purely mechanical. I shall not underrate the efiect on tissues like the cornea; the sundering of the lamella certainly will cause a very material disturbance of nutrition. But this effect is strictly local, and in other kinds of tissues does not come into consideration. The chemical effects, however, are of much higher importance. We believe they are as follows :— 1. Microbes deprive the tissues of a great portion of their special nutritive fluids. The tissues are starved, they atrophy— genuine parasitism—certainly an extremely rare occurrence in animal tissues, because the growth of microbes can barely be imagined without an influence on the tissues of their change of matter, which must never be lost sight of. 2. Microbes deprive the tissue fluids of certain indispensable *I should like to propose a more general use of the word Microbes'' as a collective term. I fail to understand that the collective term "Bacteria" should also include the " Cocci." It seems to me altogether contrary to the sense to designate a glohe by the Greek name of a roti," BaKTTjpiaj" and to employ the Latin translation " Bacillus " for a subdivision of " Bacteria."