ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. 90 Many individuals, however, with low resisting power of the tissues fall victims quite early, especially when the contrast between the prison air and the country air they have been used to is a very sharp one, as it is in the case of prisoners from a rural district. This observation is confirmed by the statistics of French and English Army surgeons, which bring out the^ fact that cases of tubercular disease and deaths from it quickly diminish in number during war or during manceuvres, while m times of peace, especially in winter, when the men are in barracks, they very distinctly increase. Similar causes imperil the lives'of the industrial classes in large towns, where they spend their days in dusty, overcrowded workshops, and sleep in close and not very clean rooms at night. The comparison of the numbers of cases of tuberculosis among industrial and agricultural populations is also favourable to the assumption that the quality and quantity of the respired air are the deciding influences. For example, in Switzerland the mortality from consumption in the former class is more than double that in the latter; the industrial population shows a death-rate from tubercular disease of 2-55 per thousand, the purely agricultural I'l, while a mixed population gives a rate of 1-7. Lastly, the statistics from high altitudes distinctly indicate the frequency of phthisis to be in inverse proportion to the elevation. And at very great heights, e.g., in Mexico, in the towns of Mexico Puebla, Quito, Potosi, and Bogota, all standing at an elevation of from 8,000 to 13,000 feet, tuberculosis is very rare; in spite of the hurtful character of the mining industries it does not occur to any extent even among the labouring classes. A retarding influence on the development of consumption is observed at an elevation of 1,600 feet, and much more distinctly at one of 3,200 feet. Among the climatic peculiarities of such heights to which this influence may be due we may, I think, discount the efi-ect of the rarified air, for both sea voyages and residence in the Steppes give like favourable results; stress es to be laid rather on the maintenance of the purity of the air by its rapid movement, and on its freedom from micro-organisms. The investigations into the micro-organisms of the atmosphere, undertaken by Miguel and Freudenreich, give, for heights of over 6 500 feet a complete absence of microbes, and even at a height