106 ZIEMSSEN ON THE CAUSES OF TUBERCULOSIS. powerful obstacles to the attack of the enemy. Dr. KukofF, who has subjected the question to anatomical investigation in our pathological institute, working with the freezing microtome on fresh larynxes from cases that had died of phthisis, could in no single case prove the entrance of bacilli from without, that is, from the sputum hanging about the larynx. On the contrary, the epithelium was in a good state of preservation, and the bacilli that were found had penetrated from the sub-epithelial cellular layer towards the periphery into the intercellular lymph-spaces. There is, of course, no doubt that local infection through the bacilli of the sputum does take place as soon as we have the smallest erosion formed, but this plays no part whatever in the initial stages of laryngeal phthisis. For the explanation of these stages we must refer exclusively to the blood and lymph currents in the laryngeal mucous membrane. The question of the curability of laryngeal phthisis is now answered in the affirmative. Of course this only in a general way, just in the same way as I have explained above we affirm the curability of pulmonary phthisis. It is certainly not common for tubercular ulcers of the larynx to heal, but I have not the slightest doubt it may occur. I have seen several instances of the affection where, along with a general quieting-down of the tubercular process, the ulcers in the larynx healed up in a short time, and on the death of the patients some years after from repeated phthisical attacks, the cicatrices of these ulcers could be demonstrated. All experienced laryngologists will have seen similar cases. You see, gentlemen, from what I have said how many ques- tions there are yet to be settled in this great subject before we shall have such a thorough knowledge of all the conditions of the life, activity, and death of the tubercle bacillus, that it will be possible to cut the ground from beneath the feet of this heredi- tary foe of the human race. But you see also, gentlemen, the immense strides which the theory of the £etiology and the pathology of tuberculosis has made in these last six years, thanks to Koch's discovery. The ardour with which the work is carried on, and the rigidly scientific character of the methods applied, are the best guarantee we have for continuous further progress. This progress practical medicine, in so far as it is interested, will watch with lively sympathy.