LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE 362 therapeutics. Nothing else in our whole armamentarium has greater successes to show, and no other remedy used in these diseases has been so generally recognised in all civilised countries.* Of the forms of electricity at present used, the constant current is undoubtedly the most valuable. With regard to the method of its application, there is at present a distinct prepon- derance of opinion that there should be a direct influence on the diseased portion of the cord, and that the current should traverse this as completely and equally as possible. To get this done without using very strong and painful currents, we must seek the help of all the physical appliances adapted to facilitate the entrance of the current into the spinal canal. We place one electrode over the spine at the affected region of the cord, and the other as nearly as possible at the same level on the anterior surface of the body, so that the greatest density of the current passes through the diseased portion ; or we can place both electrodes over the spine at some distance from one another, so that a large poi'tion of the 'current must necessarily pass through the spinal canal. Further, we use on well-known princijDles large flat electrodes, and moistening these well with warm water ajjply them with as firm and equal a pressure as possible. According to my experience the most suitable for the majority of cases are rectangular plates of 50 square centimetres (5 by 10). In individual cases, now and then larger plates may be required; W. Muller recommends 70 square centimetres, and v. Ziemssen's giant plates are 100 square centimetres and over. These exceptional sizes are used particularly in cases of circumscribed disease, and where the body is well nourished, but as a rule they offer no particular advantages. In the case of spare individuals especially, the difficulty of applying them exactly makes the advantage of their larger size often a very imaginary one. Seeligmiiller's spinal electrode again appears to me of even less value on account of its surface being too small. In the case of children of course smaller plates are used; 3 by 6 cm. is a good size. At present, of the two methods mentioned above, the former with the current passing horizontally is the favourite in the case * On the other hand, the use of balneo-thorapentics, which plays so large apart among us in Germany, is in England almost a terra incognita.