273 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. by any means so seldom as lias hitherto been assumed, as will be seen in the coiirse of my remarks. 1 might almost main- tain that the generative system is one of the chief seats of irrita- tion producing asthma, and divide asthma into six classes, of which sexual asthma forms one. This division has a further practical bearing as plainly in- dicating the chief exciting cause of asthma, which is generally overlooked in the examination of the patient, either from ignorance or false modesty on the part of the physician or of the patient. In not a small number of cases, we find, in males as well as in females, disorders of the generative organs, which produce attacks of asthma through the medium of the sympathetic nervous system. But in the male sex, particularly, these disorders are much more frequent than has hitherto been thought. They are chiefly affections of the posterior portion of the urethra which cause reflex nerve troubles, e.g., urethritis posterior in consequence of sexual excess, masturbation, gleet, &c., and spermatorrhoea, though affections of the penis, especially of the glans, may also play an important part. If we, then, admit a sexual asthma_, we must carefully enquire into the generative functions in the presence of negative results from other causes, otherwise we are liable to errors of omission. This examination is very troublesome and tedious, as only an exact and painstaking history of the case and repeated microscopic examination of the urine yields safe conclusions as to the pathological condition of the generative tract. Even endoscopy may be necessary to be quite certain of the diagnosis. My object is now to bring forward a number of important cases illustrating the significance and influence of sexual derangements, especially in the male, in the causation of asthma. Various views are entertained as regards the immediate mechanism of a paroxysm of asthma. Biermer's explanation is the most probable, according to which a spasm of spastic narrowing of the bronchioles takes place. Inspiration and expiration are in consequence interfered with, but especially T