323 STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. y)liysical and the psycMcal may probably work from both sides. In very many cases they take rise in the psychical sphere. Among these come the large group of hysterical symptoms produced by suggestion, when ideas, rising with great vividness into consciousness, and referring themselves to the body proper, result in the coiTesponding somatic condition. All morbid symptoms originating in this way may be called " psycho- genous." In other cases, certainly of rarer occurrence, the derangement appears to originate in the somatic sphere, although I readily grant that it is difficult to say, in estimating the effect of the bodily disturbances, how far it is aided by the mental conceptions they give rise to in the first instance. This latter consideration comes in when we apply these views of the nature of hysteria to the subject of local traumatic neurosis. Whether, with a special predisposition on the part of the nervous system, a sudden violent shock to the body is of itself sufficient to loosen the union between the affected nerve channels and the mental processes, or whether the profound psychical disturbance is in every case (it frequently is) the direct and immediate agent in producing the damage, must remain for the present undetermined. This much, however, appears to me to be beyond doubt, that cases of genuine local traumatic neurosis, as we have described it, must be con- sidered hysterical afiections. The affected limb loses through the injury a portion of its normal relation to consciousness. This derangement is the result of the commotion of mind and body, both of which, as can be understood, are lai-gely affected by the injury to the limb ; the special nature of the disassociation determines the production in the individual cases of hystero-traumatic paralysis, hystero-traumatic contracture, anaesthesia, &c. The prognosis of local traumatic neurosis, in harmony with its almost purely hysterical character, is very much more favourable than that of the general form. But there are great differences, especially in regard to the duration of the affection. According to my experience, the contractures in the lower extremities, and the peculiarities they cause in the gait, especially in children, give the best prognosis: As soon as the children are removed from unsuitable surroundings, and are taught by methodic exercise of the will the proper way of directing their voluntary