LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE 364 In many cases the galvanic current has been found verj^ useful in the treatment of painful or tender spots over the spine. Although such spots are not very common, yet where they do exist they require special looking after. The method employed is to apply the anode stationary over the part affected. Some observers endeavour to attain an effect on the cervical sympathetic along with the galvanisation of the cord. A method strongly recommended by M. Meyer, of Berlin, and Erb for this purpose is to apply the kathode stationary at the angle of tlie lower jaw, while the anode is gradually moved down on the opposite side of the vertebral column, close beside the spinous processes. This method has one disadvantage, that giddiness and stupor are easily caused unless very gentle currents are made use of. A combination of central with peripheral galvanisation has been very much employed in paralytic and ana3sthetic conditions in the extremities. The one pole is applied to the spinal column, the other over a plexus, nerve trunk, muscle, or group of muscles. I mj^self prefer in general to use peripheral and central galvanisation separately • at any rate, in making use of the nerve currents through the spinal cord it is reasonable enough to employ the latter by itself. If there are disorders of the bladder, rectum, or sexual organs, these parts, as far as possible, should be included in the circuit. In paralysis of the bladder the one pole is placed over the lumbar spine, the other alternately over the symphysis and perinseum, or separately over the one or the other, according as we wish to affect principally the detrusor or the sphincter. Passing the current from the lumbar region to the perina3um is a method which may also be employed in paralysis of the sphincter ani or affection of the sexual powers. Any internal electrical treatment of the bladder or rectum is generally unnecessary. In applying galvanic electricity in these various ways we must take account not only of the strength of the current, but of the transverse section of the electrodes, that is, of the current- density. For the expression of this, C. W. Miiller^^ has pro- posed the formula— .1 (current strength in milliamp^res). D (current-density)=Q ^^^^^.^^ electrode in square cm.). Erb'*° was the first to lay stress on the necessity of paying