BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF 22 condition of life in the most highly organised plants, the question will arise. What causes, e.-j/., man's growth to stop at a certain limit ? Why has only one period of growth been allotted to him ? We had to become familiar with the mystery of growth; we like- wise have to accept the mystery of arrest of growth. These phenomena, just because they are mysteries to us, still lie beyond the compass of the natural sciences. Their nature is so inscrutable for our as yet insufficient methods of investigation that they fail to extend our knowledge.* * The experiments hitherto made with a view to explain or to understand the cessation of growth caused by mechanical conditions have but very little satisfied me. Professor Thiersch was the first who, in the province of histology, pointed out, albeit in a most guarded and modest manner, that the connective tissue atrophies in advanced age (his examinations started from the facial inte- gument of old men), and becomes flaccid from this cause, and that, in consequence, its epithelial elements, especially also the glands and hair follicles, released from the pressure of the tense connective tissue, may readily lend themselves to extravagant new formations. This logically leads to the idea that at the termi- nation of growth epithelial and connective tissue elements are brought into that opposite state of pressure which is necessary for the persistent normal function of these tissues. Eeality, however, does not confirm this hypothesis, e.g., the observation of those distressing cases in which the most terrible epithelial carci- nomas develop in the rectum of still young, strong men. If the impulse of growth, by which nucleus diverges from nucleus and cell from cell, actually be latent in the developed tissue, viz., in some manner be converted into expansive force, this is not likely to be dependent on the mutual pressure of the tissues, as even under the pressure of so dense a [membrane as, for instance, the tunica albuginea of the testicle, occasionally from quite unknown causes, and not rarely after a contusion, an immense luxuriant mass of sarcoma may develop. The pressure of such tissues on each other is not able to arrest either the growth or the pressure from secretions, e.g., of a cyst; how could otherwise so many thick- walled continuous ovarian cysts form? The other hypothesis, that in each cell and in each congeries of cells the continuance of the change of matter occurs only for a certain period, and thereby the capability of multiplicating is limited, or in other words, also that the formative functions of the cells are exhaustible, is merely a periphrase, but not an explanation, of observed facts, as has already previously been mentioned concerning the microbes. It is as if we were to say that a " Fate " also rules over these phenomena; it is the standpoint of resignation on which we may, perhaps, for the present rest, without letting ourselves be deterred from further investigations and combinations of our sensory observa- tions by Dubois' anathema, " Ignorabimus.'" It may perhaps be a comfort to some that even this fate, which dominates the duration and termination of our growth, may occasionally be outwitted, by what power we, of course, do^ not know; but if we have set up a good Ormuzd, a wicked Ahriman will not fail to turn up too. There is in the anatomico-pathological museum at Vienna a well- formed skeleton in which all the epiphysial cartilages are persistent, and which, from the size and slenderness of the bones, might be supposed to be that of an individual of about twelve years of age. But it actually belonged to a dwarf who earned his living as a pedlar in Vienna, and who died in his thirty-ninth year. Nothing is known about the size of his parents. We meet in this case with the continuance of the juvenile stage. Wo shall not be able to understand