LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 43 trimi. The swarm spores of these fungi bore into tlie epidermis of the algse, and after the development from them of a sorus, i.e., a small round cluster of cells with the character of Sporangia, the latter is incapsulated by a luxuriant growth of epidermis cells. (A quite identical process is brought about in algae of the genus Vaucheria by Rotatoria and their brood.) The number of these genera of the Mycocecidia is, on the whole, however, very small in comparison with the extremely rich variety of forms of galls produced by animals. The most manifold and peculiar forms of galls are caused by Mites, Phytoptus (Acaro- or Phytopto-ceciclia). They produce the pathological formation of hair on the surface of leaves {" Erineum formation" on walnut, vine, lime, oak, beech, apple, birch, and poplar leaves, &c., and on many herbs), thepocli-et or bladder galls (on linden, plum, maple, elm, willow, and beech leaves, &c.), the peculiar leaf rolls and folding and orimioing of leaves with thicken- ing of the leaf itself (of the linden, beech, willow, rose, virgin's bower, or clematis, &c.), the stuelling of buds and deformation of the apices of the buds, the spangle galls PocTcenh-anhheit") of the leaves (of the pear, apple, walnut, and elm), and on the back of the oak leaves.* Many kinds of Hemiptera produce galls, of which those caused by the plant lice or Aphidce (^Aphidiocecidia) are the most numerous. Their forms are similar to those of the former class, and are again distinguished as leaf rolls, pocket galls, deformations of the apices of the buds {pineapple or sp-uce galls). There are, moreover, root galls, as those produced, e.g., on the vine roots by Phylloxera vastatrix (kind of aphis). A large series of most curious forms of galls are produced by the Icw'vce of flies and wasps, but only in rare cases also by those of butterflies, moths, and beetles. Also in this series all the afore- named types are represented, some of particularly luxuriant and interesting form, among which we class also the turgescences of the stalk, the stalh galls 8tengelgallen"), e.g., the Gecidomyca salicis on the goat willow {Salix capra) and the Lascoptera rubi on the h'omble. The best known are the galls on the oah leaves, the so-called " Oah apples" (again of the most manifold form, e.g., the Arti- * Note by the Translator.—Th^ latter kind of spangle galls are also caused by the Neuroterus lenticularis, a kind of gall wasp (Gynips).