ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROrilY, tropliy, normal or even increased. Electrical irritability behaves in the same way; no reaction of degeneration. Skin reflexes normal; tendon reflexes present in lower extremities, absent in upper. All kinds of sensibility, brain, special senses, internal organs perfectly normal. But there is something else about this patient, gentlemen. Look at his face. The lips are remarkably thick, while the chin and lower parts of the cheeks appear fallen in, there being distinct wasting of the left half of the chin. If we test the functional activity of the muscles we find the frentals, orbiculares palpebrarum, and zygomatics normal, but distinct weakness of the left side of the mouth and of the left buccinator—brought out in showing the teeth, in whistling, and in puffing out the cheeks. Palpation shows undoubted wasting and softness of the left side of the mouth and chin. It is not easy to say for certain whether things on the right side are normal. The muscles of mastication of the tongue and of the pharynx, the ocular muscles, and the pupils all perfectly normal. The patient did not know that there was anything wrong about his face, and can therefore tell us nothing about when it began. In this case then, gentlemen, which in other respects agrees in all essential points with the first one (putting aside some interesting details) we have a juvenile muscular atrophy with affection of the face. Let us take another case. 3. Look at this little Hercules we have here, and observe, particularly, the enormous development of his limbs, especially the legs and glutasal regions, his somewhat stupid expression, and the peculiar attitude. Philip Arnold, nine years of age. Family apparently quite healthy, except that a younger brother is affected in the same way; the parents and the two older than himself are healthy. The boy could run about at the usual time, but with some difficulty, and he could never jump; in his second year had convulsions. From his fourth and firth year he is said to have been getting thicker about the calves, and walking has become difficult and the gait tottering. Intelligence very defective, and has made no progress in school. The first thing that strikes one in examining him is the immense development of the boy in flesh and adipose tissue, especially in the lower extremities, which call up lively recollections of statues of the " Infant Hercules." ISTote, also, a generally distributed mottling of the skin. More exact investigations reveal, however, under these deceitful external appearances, not only extensive muscular wasting, but everywhere distinct weakness, even in the apparently normal or