HOFMEISTEK ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 189 than the diminution of sugar. On the above principle every method of treatment of diabetes has therefore only a limited value. Priorry's proposal to replace the loss of sugar by increasing the amount taken as food, like the attempt to replace the loss of proteid material in albuminuria by increasing the amount of meat, may be dismissed " a limine," for could the loss of sugar be compensated, none would be excreted. The same holds good with glycerine, which Schutzen recommended on erroneous theoretical premisses as a substitute. Even Donkin has but few followers of his treatment,: consisting exclusively of skimmed milk; it can scarcely be imagined that nutrition would not suffer severely in a very short time. The injuriousness of this method has already been demonstrated by several writers. The hygienic-dietetic natural method of treatment of A, v. Diihring is simply paradoxical. He allows his patients rather large quantities of carbo-hydrates in the shape of stale white bread, rice, peas, haricot-beans, and dried fruits, and only excludes sugar. He maintains that these vegetables, dried apples, plums, and cherries, when soaked in cold water for a day and then well cooked over a slow fire for several hours, in spite of the large amount of carbo-hydrates, form no derivatives of sugar, but are digested and assimilated (?). Several control experiments discountenanced this supposition. On the other hand V. Diihring's hygienic treatment—the use of cold water in the form of wet pack and cold friction, plenty of muscular exercise in the open air, home gymnastics, and respiratory exercises—is quite rational in suitable cases, and its efficacy cannot be gainsaid. It remains uncertain whether the successful results, even in the grave forms that v. Diihring's method boasts, are true recoveries or only temporary ameliorations. Similar routine methods of treatment, wrongly termed syste- matic, should have no place in diabetes—a disease, as eetiology tells us, which appears at one time to develop from nervous causes (psychoses), at another from constitutional (obesity, gout), and again from organic disease (pancreas and liver). Moreover, when we take into consideration how different the nature of every individual and the predisposing causes (diminished power of resistance, inherited disposition, conditions of life) that influence the disease are, we can easily understand why the symptoms which a given treatment is to suit are so diverse in each case.