'212 ZiEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. the papilla) of perfectly normal aspect. The arteritic change therefore had regressed towards the end of the fourth week of treatment. At the same time the other symptoms had improved ; more especially there were no further convulsive attacks, and the headache, which had previously been permanent, disappeared all but a trace. Should it be shown that this ophthalmoscopic proof of tlie thickening in the arterial wall and its regression under specific treatment is constantly present in analogous cases, we should have a valuable aid where the diagnosis was otherwise doubtful; its presence at least would decide in a positive sense the existence of cerebral syphilis. Changes in the fundus have no doubt been previously described in cases here and there, but these have been instances, some of optic nerve atrophy (Lasclikiewitsch), others of choked disc, mth very dilated and tortuous vems. Furstner s case (D. Archiv fur klin. Med., Bd. sxx.) was one of the latter kind though no doubt there was general thickenmg of the vessel walls. Choked disc and optic nerve atrophy may, however, as you know, result from any of the very varied lesions which cause increased intracranial pressure or inflammatory and degenerative changes in the intracranial contents. In Furstner s case which Becker in Heidelberg examined along with him the thickening in the vessel wall persisted up to the tmie ot death. In our case it yielded to specific treatment giving m this way one reason for its diagnosis as syphilitic. For the future in all cases of brain syphilis the condition of the retinal artery should receive special attention throughout the whole course of the disease. "l have already mentioned the preference which syphilitic disease of the vessels shows for the great artmes at the base, ZLllj for the vertebrals and basilar. The endarteritis deformans of old age occurs frequently enough m these vasculai dhtricts also, and in the circle of Willis, but does no readily 17 about such a degree of disturbance of the circula^^^^^^^^ the fyphilitic disease. The significance which d-ease of^^ basilar artery has for the vital centres in the medulla is plan when we consider that the twigs going off from it are as Duret and Heubner have shown, mostly terminal artei.es. Narro-mg of tee or their complete closure, must of necessity lead to Sboisis of those'centres on account of the absence of a