SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 115 impacted in the bone. Monod found a piece of a sword-blade 9 cm. in length soldei-ed by osteophytes, and thereby fixed to the inner surface of the left thoracic wall and the ribs. Gerster excised a knife-blade 8 cm. in length which had remained healed-in during two years in the fore-arm. II. Larrey describes a preparation in Florence, a stiletto sticking for two years in the parietal bone and in the brain ; a pseudo-membrane protected like a sheath the cerebral substance. Guvilliers extracted the blade of a rapier which, perforating the spinal cord, was healed in the vertebral column; and Hager mentions a piece of wire, the presence of which in the thigh had been diagnosed by acupunc- ture after two years, and which had been removed by an incision " after dividing the capside formed hy inspissated lympli" Other kind of foreign bodies, remaining without reaction in the body, may be mentioned as curiosities. A particularly remarkable instance fi'om modern reports is the following case of Huppert : At a post-mortem examination of a maniac, aged 42, who in previous years had been mentally normal, was found a slate-pencil 7'3 cm. in length, very slightly movable, in the cerebral substance close beneath the floor of the right descending and posterior cornu, with its anterior end touching and fixed to the temporal bone, and with its posterior end embedded in the medullary substance of the posterior lobe, apparently luithoid causing f urther anatomical changes, except the immediate displacement of sub- stance and a very slight proliferation of connective tissue. The brain in its neighboiirhood was not altered, in the closely surrounding medullary substance there was neither atrophy nor sclerotic thickening, not even any abnormal colouring, there was only on the interior surface of the temporal bone a small osteo- phyte with remnants of tough white connective tissue to which the anterior end of the foreign body had evidently been fixed. Iluppert supposes that the slate-pencil, no traces of injury of the bones having been discovered, had been pushed through one of the then still existent fontanelles into the skull, and had remained there latent for so long a period. Wood heals-in with relative rarity. Billroth extracted a thorn 1-6 cm. in length, which had been lodged for eleven years close under the integument of the leg. Desir de Fortunet reports a similar case, in which a thorn was removed fifteen years after