PEYER ON ENURESIS NOCTURNA IN MALES. 340 1. The patient suffered from infancy from enuresis, i.e., it was congenital. 2. The affection was a family one—father or brother having also suffered. 3. In all (except case VII., which is excluded by reason of the age) sexual weakness was present, showing itself by seminal emissions with flaccid penis, brought on by comparatively trivial causes. 4. Lastly, in addition to the congenital weakness, another coAise was present, namely, chronic inflammatory irritahility of the p-ostatic 'portion of the urethra, due to masturbation. Oases are also observed where wetting the bed at first is a congenital nocturnal affection—"enuresis nocturna"; in the course of time, however, micturition may become frequent during the day (Case IV.)—" enuresis diurna "; and, finally, it may pass into " enuresis continua," where the patient cannot retain the urine at all. As an example of this condition I take the follow- ing case from my book on " Irritable Bladder." M. W., Eetat. 10, small, thin, miserable, and cachectic-looking boy, with red nose and prominent belly, suffered from continuous incontinence of urine. His shirt and trousers after half a day were quite wet, and emitted an evil-smelling urinous odour. The boAvels were sluggish. Appetite very good, in'fact voracious. Constant languor, heaviness of head, especially in the morning. He could not be awaked out of his sleep, not even by shaking. Intellect normal. The boy had suffered from infancy from incontinence, which had gradually increased in severity; there was constant desire to pass water during the day, and the last two years it became so troublesome as to almost abolish retention, and thus established the condition for whicli he came under my care. The lad had never suffered from worms or any other serious illness. The penis is small, the prepuce very long, and the meatus a vivid red. The urine passed in my presence soon showed a cloudy sediment, consisting of mucus containing rhombic prisms (coffin- lid crystals), and also a number of quite small crystals of oxalate of lime. A few round and oval epithelial cells and mucus corpuscles could also be recognised. The urine itself was free from albumen and sugar, but markedly acid.