84 ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA like, I recommend to cany in tlieir pocket a little bottle of tinc't. valerian, tinct. castorei, and sp. ffitlier, aa 5 grams, and a few lumps of sugar, whicli they can take any time and any- where. My idea is not so much to assist the patient in the attack as to arouse his self-confidence by the knowledge that he possesses a remedy which may be resorted to at any moment. In cases of " Heissliunger" i get them to carry a little bread or the like in their pockets. I do not think much of the other nervine drugs by which Beard sets great store—arsenic, cannabis indica, ergotin, cafifein. In rare cases they may be of some use, but for the most part they serve only for the satisfaction of drug-craving patients. Beard asserts that he has obtained results from frequently changing the drugs; often he gave sedatives for one week, the second week tonics, the third week he stopped, and then began once more. No German physician will attach any value to such an example ; but it must be borne in mind that the Americans are inclined and accustomed to take a great deal of medicme, while in Germany the opposite tendency-a distinct dismclination to employ drugs—is prevalent. , ^ ^ -, t i The hypnotic drugs, morphia, chloral, paraldehyde, I only employ in cases of extremest necessity, and then temporarily. To patients suffering from sleeplessness, who have the most intense craving for sleep, I administer chloral or paraldehyde once or twice a week, but then in so powerful a dose that a lengthy and quiet repose is occasioned, and for that purpose a very large dose is often required. The patient must then manage to get along without hypnotics for a couple of days, and this method is continued until the general treatment induces natural sleep. In this connection I should like to point out that a warm bath, or a weak galvanic current diagonally through the head, taken m the evening, act as excellent hypnotics. Others take so much alcohof; drink, and in so short a time, that a sort of intoxication is set up. Beer more especially acts in large quantities as a hypnotic. An old neurasthenic gentleman whom I treated a lo^g time ago had for years been unable to sleep unless he had auickly drank a whole litre of beer lying m bed. ^ i warn you pressingly, gentlemen, against the administration of Leo J. ii'gastro-intestinal neurasthenia, ^^o--^^^^^^^^^^^^^ pains may be-in any case the complaints are not to be taken as