LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. 15 energy, for every form, almost for every stage, of inflammation, suppuration, and necrosis. And now. in what manner, and for what reason, do such pro- cesses of microbic proliferation terminate ? Various suggestions have been offered on this subject. We have long been acquainted with the manner and the mode in which the amoebas encompass with their plasma minute bodies and their immediate surround- ings, how they take them up, sometimes digest and also again eject them. We know that the leucocytes behave exactly in the same manner as the amcebas, also when after their emigration they had been converted into pus-corpuscles by the trifoliated fission (" Kleeblattfurchung") of their nucleoli. Moreover, they frequently have been fed without impairment of their vitality with the most subtile carmine or cinnabar granules for the pur- -spose of special examination. In like manner it has been observed that leucocytes receive within themselves, amongst others, also vegetable microbes, cocci and bacteria, and that either they ai^e poisoned by, or kill and digest them. Metsch- nikoff most accurately investigated these processes, and called those cells which devour the microbes by the name of " Phagocytes." It, however, seems very doubtful, and is most emphatically contradicted, particularly by JBaiimgarten, that this manner of death of the microbes, which moreover seems not to be all too common, constitutes a very essential cause for the cessation of the processes which are set up by microbic vegetations. Another cause may prove of greater importance. It is an universal law for organised beings that they cannot live in the final products of their change of matter. The ferment cell perishes in the alcohol which it has produced from the suo-ar; the bacteria of putrescence die in the putrid products of decom- position into which they have split up the albuminous substances. Man dies in the carbonic acid which he expires if the further supply of fresh oxygen is cut off. The fermentation fungi in the products of this change of matter gradually become less and less vigorous in their chemical action; they sink to the bottom, and their vegetation ceases long before- all the sugar has been converted into alcohol and carbonic acid, and long before the nitrogen, which is necessary for their existence, has been used up. In consequence of this vegetative exhaustion, other kinds of fungi settle in the alcoholic solution.