264 EKB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. The course is generally a progressive one, though not nearly so much so as in spinal amyotrophy. It is always very slow and msidious, extending over 20 or 30 years, and sometimes coming to a standstill altogether, so that the patients live to a good old age. I have seen individuals between 50 and 60 years of age who had been affected M'ith it when young. The end comes not unfrequently in this way, that the lesion makes continual progress, spreading to one muscle after another, until the patient becomes at last quite helpless, and with affection of the respiratory muscles and diaphragm death is finally produced by asphyxia or intercurrent disease. The younger the patient when first attacked, the more rapid and destructive is the course of the disease. Other unfavourable elements for the prognosis are the spreading quickly from one part of the body to another and a marked tendency to lipomatosis. But children with the pseudo-hj^Dertrophic fonn in general attain to a considerable age, though there are exceptions to this. About the prognosis I have already said all that can be said. Actual recovery does not appear to occur, but I have repeatedly seen the condition improve and the disease even coming to a halt. This occurs especially in cases beginning first in youth or adult life. In regard to treatment, the outlook is far from encouraging, and the results attained hitherto are extremely meagre. Should the attempt not be made to try some kind of prophylaxis against this disease in the actual presence of which we are so helpless ? Should not we subject to some treatment parents, who, without being affected themselves, have already had dystrophic children or who have come of dystrophic families ? The object aimed at would be of course to endow any children they might have afterwards with greater strength and power of resistance. It is rational enough to argue in this way, but I cannot see what more we can do beyond following the ordinary laws of health and employing the usual " tonic " remedies. The same holds good of the prophylaxis in the case of children of dystrophic families, whether their parents or brothers or sisters are affected or not; we cannot get further than laying down some general rules about healthy modes of life and good food, general hardening up, fresh air, baths, avoidance of undue muscular