282 PEYER ON ASTHMA AND the chronic inflammatory condition of the fauces predisposed the patient to them. On this diagnosis I based my treatment. At the outset, diet was strictly regulated and the amount of drink taken was limited to two glasses of light .good beer daily. Smoking was forbidden and an energetic course of santonin was carried out. .Fifty-four days after I saw the patient again; his condition was about the same, appetite slightly better, no worms had been found. Local treatment of the nose and throat, and various internal remedies were used, but without any result, and during the two months he was under me the patient received no benefit worth mentioning. In the course of conversation one day Mr. F. told me, inciden- ally, that he was still obliged to pass water very frequently, and at times experienced a slight burning sensation. He had already mentioned this fact at the first examination, but, as I regarded it as a result of his heavy drinking, I did not pay any attention to it. But now, as he had given up drinking, I concluded that Mr. F. was suffering from irritable bladder (on idiopathic irritability of the bladder by Peyer, Enke Stuttgart, 1888), and therefore determined to examine the urine again. He passed water in my presence and I again observed the deposit of a slight cloud similar to what I had previously noticed, but unfortunately not examined microscopically. The chemical examination gave, as on the first occasion, a negative result. On the other hand, a microscopic examination of the sediment, after a little trouble, revealed a fair number of spermatozoa, mucus-filaments, and a few hyaline casts. In consequence of this discovery, I filled in that part of the history of the case which, unfortunately, from motives of delicacy, is generally neglected by medical men, and questioned him as to the condition of the sexual system. The patient then told me that from very early youth, about the 10th year, he was led to masturbate, and constantly practised this vice till he was 18. About this time he obtained a post as teacher, and also became acquainted with a woman with whom he had inter- course very frequently, until his marriage some 15 months ago.