20G ZIEMSSEN ON SYPIIILTS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. puerperal fever, smallpox, measles, scarlet fever, and acute rheumatism are on the whole of rare occurrence; relatively the most common are the paralj'^ses after diphtheria. Of all infectious diseases syphilis is undoubtedly the most important h\ the present connection. Its causal relations to nervous disease have become during the last twenty j'-ears an object of continually increasing attention, and although in the conflict of opinion here and there there has been some shooting beyond the mark, yet we can no longer doubt that in the {etiology of this class of diseases syphilis is an element of great consequence. The multitude of important facts which recent times have brought to light, and the eminently practical character of the question, make it a duty for us all to study these things more carefully for our guidance both in diagnosis and treatment. Of course it must not be forgotten that we are often moving on uncertain ground, and that many, and those too the most important, questions are still matters of controversy. On this account the greatest caution is necessary in the interpretation of appearances, and in the estimate of their practical worth. The historical development of the knowledge of the relation of syphilis to the nervous system may be summarised in a few words. It belongs wholly to our century, for what has come down to us from the 17th and 18th centuries represent conjectures rather than facts. As in other departments, so here also we can recognise very distinctly the absence of scientific verification in the eccentricities in which physicians of eminence indulged in their statements about these matters. The whole question was first subjected to a thorough study by Virchow. His investigations referred chiefly to the late forms of syphilis in the periosteum, the cartilages, the bones, and the viscera. The particular character of the changes in the brain and its membranes, especially in the vessels supplying them, has been since determined by B. Wagner, Steenberg, Heubner, and others, not to mention Virchow himself. Eminent clinical teachers And neurologists in all countries have taken part in the further .development of the questions at issue; besides E. Wagner, there are among others Westphal, Leyden, Erb, Mendel, Rumpf. Charcot, Fournier, and Cliflbrd Albutt. To Rumpf especially we owe lately an excellent exposition of all that has been hitherto known, with the addition of a large number of new observations