IIOFMEISTER ON DIAIIKTKS MELLITUS. 17:5 Oil rising in the morning—only sliglit traces of sugar, or none at all, may be discovered ; but an lioui- after breakfast (generally white bread and sweetened coffee) it may disclose i to 5 per cent. ()f sugar. Therefore each examination should be made some two or three hours after a full meal, which for purposes of greater certainty should consist of well-sweetened and farinaceous food. It should not be made after a long fatiguing journey or after severe mental strain, for both these factors may temporarily cause a marked increase in the amount of sugar, and thus lead to an error in diagnosis. It is particularly difficult to decide between accidental glycosuria and diabetes, when only a small quantity of sugar is present (from -5 to 1-5 per cent.), contrariwise, it is quite easy when the amount exceeds 2 per cent. Urine which contains more than 2 per cent, of grape sugar can only be that of a diabetic patient. All the forms of glycosuria—artificial, symptomatic, toxic, and traumatic—show at most only slight traces of sugar. The single exception is the glycosuria produced by phloridzin, when an enormous quantity of sugar (from 10 to 19 per cent.) may be excreted. The question arises, whether those cases where only a very small quantity ("1 to '2 per cent.), or even a distinct though inappreciable trace of sugar is found are to be regarded as diabetic ? Many authors are decidedly of the opinion that such traces should not be viewed as diabetes, but as symptomatic glycosuria, accompanying some latent or as yet unrecognised disease. I cannot subscribe to this vie^^'. Several cases are known to me—among others the one mentioned above— where quite insignificant traces of sugar were accompanied by serious symptoms peculiar to diabetes (emaciation, languor, sleeplessness, &c.), and where these troubles only yielded, or at any rate improved, from the moment the patient was placed on strict anti-diabetic diet. Every })h3'sician who has had oppor- tunities of observing a large number of cases of diabetes, will probably have come across some in which long persistent traces of sugar left the diagnosis doubtful, but where a casual shock to the nervous system has suddenly caused a considerable increase. In my opinion even the slightest trace of sugar that can be distinctly recognised should not be lightly considered, but rather the case should be attentively watched for some