ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA 60 in the family, may utterly paralyse him. The impression made on a susceptible spirit by a melancholy occurrence, for example, the death of a member of the family, especially of a parent, is very profound, and is only very gradually effaced. So also the collapse of a financial speculation, a considerable, nay even a slight pecuniary loss, may elicit all at once the entire group of neurasthenic symptoms. Incapacity for work is not necessarily combined with it; neurasthenia is in these cases principally psychical, manifesting itself by a tendency to mental depression. The disease takes a different form among Slavonic and Oriental peoples. Among the Russians, especially of the higher class, neurasthenia exists as a fundamental all-pervading trait. In no nation are there so many prematurely worn-out brains, so many young-old men. It is not the fact of being blase, which has its origin in a too early and too vigorous indulgence in the pleasures of life, but a primary tendency to exhaustion of the nervous system, which quickly leads to partial, or total mental incapacity. The high intellectual productivity and freshness conferred upon advanced age by a healthy frame, by a healthy emotional existence, and by the experience of a laborious life, is rarer in Russia than elsewhere. The fact is attested by the complaints of the choicest spirits of that nation; and the great experience which I have had occasion to accumulate as medical adviser {consi- Uarms) of members of Russian " Society" fully convinces me of the existence of the evils bewailed by these Russian patriots. If now, after the discussion of the most important astiological aspects of neurasthenia, we seek to establish a definition of the essence of these multifarious disturbances, we are at once con- fronted by difficulties, inasmuch as no anatomical changes are hitherto known to correspond to this disease. We must, there- fore, content ourselves with regarding the pathological processes as functional, or nutritive and irritative. And these words signify that, having regard to the variability and multiplicity of the disturbances, and to the absence of actual demonstrable organic lesions, we have merely to deal with slight and readily curable alterations. The capability of recovery, and the variability of the (morbid) phenomena, are distinctive, although we often encounter cases which, owing to hereditary taint and a pronounced tendency to recur, assume a severe and incurable character.