37 LIVING VEGETABLE AND ANIMAL CELLS. whose effect on the animal tissue, in one and the same species, are so multiform. The disproportion between the size of the primary tubercle and the luxuriance of granulations and the exudation produced around it, presents itself to the surgeon particularly in the so-called coM abscesses" by tubercle of the bone ; these originally always contain only a thin and clear, later on a turbid, sometimes slightly blood-tinged, or may be a mucus- like serum, and here and there mingled with clots; their capsule is lined by mucous granulations, in which only very rarely tubercle-granules with tubercle-bacilli are found. The latter completely disappear if the abscess burst and pus cocci immigrate, or if they, in very rare instances, find admission from the interior of the body into the wall of the abscess. This will manifest itself by increase of pain and fever. A cold abscess con- taining one litre (two pints) or more may result from a tubercle in bone of the size of a pea. We find, on the other hand, in dry caries, neither excessive luxuriance of granulations, nor suppuration, nor exudation, but either firmer granulations (sometimes almost of the consistency of cartilage) which are imbedded in the lacunas of the eroded bone, and frequently contain many giant cells, and only a few or no bacilli at all (analogous to the fibrous tubercle of the soft parts), or we find the carious focus only filled with, and surrounded by, yellow tubercle pulp without a trace of forma- tion of granulations and suppuration in the neighbourhood, this pulp being merely enclosed by a moderately thick capsule. It is only by the frequent opening of abscesses and the energetic operative treatment of these cases that we acquire a larger experience of the manifoldness of these processes of which the pathological anatomist sees only the final stages. In these observations we now have to face the question. Are these differences of effect really caused by differences of the vegetative energy, and by the number of the bacilli accidentally retained in the tissue, or, ewe there different varieties of tubercle hacilli ivhich toe o/re not yet able to distinguish from each other ? Or a/re there vegetative forms and stages of development of these hacilli which we have not yet succeeded in demonstrating by our p-esent method? We know how unsettled still are the views, whether the delicately granulated varieties occurring under certain conditions in the plasma of the tubercle bacilli have to be inter- preted in this or that manner. Are they spores or are they