AND ITS TREATMENT. 75 results in severe cases, rests on tliis principle. Absolute calm of mind and spirit quickly pacifies the excited nervous system and gi-aduallv softens down tlie abnormal excitability, as indeed we fearn by'every-day experience in the treatment of the psychoses. Under these favourable external conditions we may accurately gauge the eflfects of suitable psychical and corporal treatment. The administration of appropriate diet, with massage, electricity, hydrotherapeusis, and medication may now be carried out in complete accordance with the individual indications; especially rest in bed, which is of great value in severe " myelasthenic " cases, may without difiicu.lty be resorted to. The majority of cases of cerebro-spinal asthenia do not necessarily call for so rigorous a separation from the outer world, nevertheless many of them require treatment with restricted liberty in an institution. A certain moral restraint and strict medical control are not merely desirable, but actually indis- pensable for the weak-willed patient. The best proof of this is that many patients are quite unwilling at last to leave the institution where at first they had felt very uncomfortable, and immediately return to it in case of a relapse. They are attracted by the feeling of support which the institution and the careful medical supervision impart to their enfeebled self-confidence,^ no less than by the immediately favourable effects of the physical means resorted to, and they all preserve after recovery a grateful recollection of the institution. Many neurasthenics do not require the institution treatment, and would even derive no benefit from it. Such are the worn- out minds which threaten to succumb to the daily monotony of work and the daily recurrence of annoyance acting on their own relatively slight power of resistance, without, however, presenting any marked alteration of their physical or mental constitution. There exists in the ranks of the learned professions, no less than among officials and the representatives of industry and finance, an incredible number of such neurasthenics, whose irritability, depending no doubt on their numerous bodily complaints, appears to the uninitiated in the light of the most unendurable capriciousness, and renders its possessor a terror to his sub- ordinates. Such dispositions derive amazing benefit from a- somewhat lengthy sojourn among the mountains in summer, or on the northern slopes of the Alps in autumn or spring, with careful