LUNG INFECTION. 101 open the door, and allow the bacteria to pass tinhindered. As to their passage into the respiratory tract, the danger of this is a very pressing one, from the fact that the bacilli exist every- where. The means we possess of guarding against the entrance of foreign bodies with the inspired air are to some extent known, from the examination of sputa from certain persons during life, coupled with the examination of their lungs after death. Very small foreign bodies, such as particles of dust, are, we know, taken up into certain large cells. Nothing is positively known of the origin of these latter, but my own opinion, as I shall explain further on, is that they certainly do not all take rise from the alveolar epithelium, but are probably produced from the flask-shaped cells of the bronchial mucous membrane, perhaps also from the sub-epithelial layer of cells. If dust is inhaled to a moderate extent, for example, by remaining in rooms filled with tobacco smoke, or the smoke of coal or charcoal fires, as among bakers and blacksmiths, we find in the daily expecto- ration masses of these large roimd cells, containing the carbon particles enclosed in their interior. In such cases they are got rid of in this way, but when the dust is for ever being inhaled, as among miners and glass-polishers, this process does not nearly sufiice. The particles are then taken up by the epithelial layer of the alveoli, and carried through the lymph-stomata into the interstitial tissue, and from there are partly excreted, partly carried along the lymphatics into the bronchial glands. The most con- vincing illustrations of this are given by the beautiful observations of Zenker and Merkel, who took as the subject of their study the impregnation of the lung tissue with rouge, in the case of women engaged in polishing glass mirrors. Thus the capacity of the lungs for defending themselves by eliminating foreigia bodies is, though very considerable, yet limited. Very probably, again, the numbers of these dust-consuming cells and their power of swallowing the foreign bodies are dependent on a certain degree of reactive energy in the bronchial mucous membrane and alveolar walls, while the excretion of the cells themselves is proportioned to the health of the ciliated epithelium and the force of expectoration. A lowering of this reactive energy is the essential condition for the settlement of the bacilli. This view is supported by the fact that there does exist at the beginning of the onset of tuberculosis a want of reactive force in the system.