242 ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. The extensors of the spine are very weak; down to the level of the first lumbar vertebra they are distinctly atrophied, from the first lumbar to the sacrum they are enlarged, forming a thick soft swelling on either side. The following muscles are apparently quite normal: trapezii, sterno-mastoids, supraspinati, teretes, subscapulares, and small muscles of the hand. The small size, along with the maintenance of their function in these muscles, stand in marked contrast with the enlargement and weakness of most of the others. The lower extremities, as you see, are very large in their whole extent. The glutaei are massive, though rather soft and weak. The muscles of the thigh are of immense size and of firm elastic consistence, forming hard nodular swellings on contraction ; they are pretty powerful. The same description applies to the gastrocnemii. The muscles in front of the legs, though no doubt enlarged, seem rather weak. The feet are to some extent in the position of pes equinus. The gait is waddling and helpless. If you place the boy sitting on the ground he can only get up by supporting himself against some object; or, in the characteristic way, by climbing up his own legs ; if "the trunk is bent forward the work of raising it to the upright position is performed only with great difficulty and with the help of the arms supported in some way ; if you attempt to lift him up by the shoulders they rise to the ears and you feel as if you had no grip at all. The muscles for the most part feel soft and flabby ; those of his calf and thighs, however, have more firmness and elasticity. There are no fibrillar twitchings. Excitability of the muscles to simple percussion is all over much diminished, so also his galvanic and faradic irritability (in varying degrees) ; the contractions on direct stimulation are rather sluggish, but there is no definite reaction of degeneration. Sensibility and skin-reflexes every^'here normal. Tendon-reflexes not made out in the upper extremities, in the lower distinct and active. Sphincters, special senses, internal organs, all normal. Mental development very defective. Gentlemen, you have here a really classical case of tlie pseudo- hypertrophic paralysis of children, as it is called. The next case presents a somewhat different picture. 4. He is also a boy of nine years of age, Wilhelm Biicher, and comes of a family in the Taunus, in which no trouble like his has been previously known. He learned to run about at the usual time, but he was slow in his movements, and "he couldn't jump " or take part in the usual boys' games. During the last two years he has been tumbling more frequently, has been unable to get upstairs, and his attitude and mode of progression have bit