UOFMEISTEll ON DIABETES MELLITUS. 185 a moderate amount, of carbo-hydrates without excreting a traw. of sugar. It is difficult, in the light of such experience, to accept the division by Seegen of diabetes into two sharply defined forms; it is much better to regard them as differing in degree only. The percentage of sugar taken in connection with the amount excreted per diem is often of little value as regards prognosis. Not every diabetic with 6 to 7 per cent, of sugar is threatened with imminent danger; on the other side, patients with 1 to 2 per cent, may be attacked by serious symptoms. In the majority of cases, however, the percentage of sugar is a fairly reliable guide in judging of the gravity of a case. Of the symptoms of diabetes, rapid emaciation and th^ presence of nerve disturbances, e.g., persistent sleeplessness, neuralgia, &c., are of the gravest significance. The diseases to which diabetics usually succumb may be regarded as the direct con- sequences and results of diabetes; they are the immediate cause of death. 1. Pulmonary Phthisis (almost half of the autopsies). The well-known picture of consumption is gradually developed, even in those where there is no family history of tubercle— apical catarrh, hasmoptysis, night-sweats, &c. Tubercle bacilli are very rarely absent. 2. Croupous Pneumonia and gangrene of the lungs. In the latter the characteristic odour of the expectoration is almost masked by the presence of acetone in the expiratory air. 3. Early Marasmus—extreme exhaustion, sloughing of the skin, and necrosis of bone. 4. Formation of Carbuncles. 5. Albuminuria. Even without serious renal lesion, large quantities of albumen may be excreted quite sufficient to bring about death. Senator holds that the albuminuria may possibly depend on irritation of the floor of the fourth ventricle, which has spread forward from the diabetic centre to that spot where, by means of experiment, albuminuria is produced. 6. Fatty degeneration and malignant disease of the pancreas accompanied by occlusion of the bile-duct and well- marked icterus. Griesinger's statement that Diabetes mellitus confers a kind of immunity from heart disease, rheumatism, and cancer, appears to be erroneous, at least as regards the last- named.