386 LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE B.—Treatment of Functional Diseases of the Cord—Spinal Irritation. ''; In addition to the organic lesions of the cord, the functional affections as they are called oxe of no small importance. The commonest and practically the most serious is spinal neurasthenia (spinal irritation, myelasthenia), and I shall content myself in this section with dealing with the treatment of this alone ; that of the rest in so far as it is not determined by these causes (as in the case of intermittent spinal paralysis) is essentially the same as in neurasthenia. In the slighter forms of this affection, in those forms especiallj'" which are so frequently seen in young people as a consequence of sexual error, all that is required in addition to removal of the cause, regulation of the mode of life, and the avoidance of mental and bodily strain, is the application of the galvanic current to the back for a few weeks, either with or without some mild hydropathy. Residence in the country or among the hills at the proper time of the year, bathing in lakes or rivers when the water is not too cold, and in the sea in the case of those in fairly vigorous condition-—all these also are very serviceable measures. The more severe forms are not so easily dealt with. These are the instances when, with an inherited neuropathic tendency to found upon, we have super-added the influence of some severe strain, prolonged over several years, as, for example, from mental or bodily exertion, or from sexual excesses. They call for very careful observation on the part of the physician ; for, though life is not endangered, the capacity of the individual for work is very seriously interfered with, and may be destroyed altogether, while in many ways his existence is made a burden to him. The treatment of such cases not infrequently requires tact and patience of the highest order. The removal of the cause, so far as this is possible, is of course the first object. The importance of attaining this, however, may be over-estimated. I have explained elsewhere^*'* that if the condition lasts long enough, the morbid changes in the nervous system display a tendency to disassociate themselves from their causes, so that the removal of the latter may not check the continuance of the affection. This particularly requires to be borne in mind where we have disease of the genital organs as one of the causes, e.r/., chronic urethritis