SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 127 medicine, especially if the chemical condition is constant in the individual regions of the body or organs. (9) The following case of healing-in of a piece of leadj is interesting on account of its anatomico-pathological condition. {Frof. Billroths clinic, case-hook No. 379, /. 1889), V. H., a cabinet-maker's workman, twenty-one years of age, from Moravia, descended from a healthy family, received seven years ago a gun- shot injury from a pistol made out of a key, in the first inter- metacarpal space. The barrel of the key, after the removal of the handle, was closed up at one end with lead, and a touch-hole had been filed into it above the leaden plug; the tube was filled with gunpowder, and closed with a piece of fresh clay. The patient whilst holding this improvised pistol with the left hand, ignited the touch-hole with the right hand. The explosion pro- duced a wound near the ulnar side of the base of the left thumb, which bled but very little, and healed under a dressing with arnica and onions (a popular remedy) in three weeks. Later on the patient noticed in the small cicatrice a hard knob, which only caused pain when knocked against. This knob gradually grew within the last ten months into a tumour, in which the patient feels when rapidly moving the hand a pushing sensation. There was at the palmar side of this powerful artisan's hand, between the thumb and the index finger, a slightly movable, fluctuating tumour of the size of a hen's egg, the pale skin over it was thickened and stretched. When shaking the hand a rumbling sound was heard, and the hallotement of a foreign lody distinctly felt. The adduction of the thumb was prevented by the size of the tumour. (See Tab. III., fig. 6.) On the 8th of July, 1889, under ansesthesia and Esmarch's bloodless method, at the palmar side, a longitudinal incision was made across the tumour, by which the bluish-white walls of connective tissue of a pear-shaped cyst, situated in the subcu- taneous cellular tissue, was exposed. The skin was somewhat more closely connected with the cyst-wall, only at the part of the small cicatrice at the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, but could be easily and rapidly dissected from this adhesion. The central pointed portion of the cyst was crossed by the fibres of the adductor muscle of the thumb, which for the purpose of the removal of the cyst had to be drawn towards the radius. The whole cyst with its continuation, which reached into the