STRUMrELL ON TEAUMATIC NEUROSES. 309 merely in certain portions of them, surrounding, it may be, the extremity as a zone-like band. These areas never coincide with the distribution of particular nerves, nor are they marked off' in the same way as in the case of lesions of the brain or cord. Like Oppenheim, I have only occasionally observed genuine hemi-ansesthesia, and only in cases which had otherwise more of the character of local traumatic neurosis or of traumatic hysteria (see below). If the antesthesia is very marked in particular parts of the skin all the forms of sensation are affected. But partial paralyses also sometimes occur, there being special affection in some cases for touch, in others for heat, and in others for pain. The last appears to me the commonest. The patients feel slight cuta- neous irritation fairly well, but over large portions or even over almost the whole surface of the body exhibit an astonishing indifference to very deep pricking with needles or very strong faradic currents. The ansesthetic areas are marked off", as we have said, according to no definite rule. Sometimes an ansesthetic area borders upon a particularly sensitive portion of the skin, while in other cases they are more ill-defined and vary at different times. The occurrence of the latter peculiarity must be borne in mind, and we must not, without close inquiiy, come to the conclusion that there is simulation in such cases. The sensory disturbances are by no means limited to cutaneous sensations, but are present even more distinctly in the special sensory surfaces. Here, also, we must seek for them, otherwise they may only too easily remain unnoticed. If a careful objec- tive examination, however, is made, the most surprising symp- toms come to light. In the sense of sight there may be simple diminution of acuteness of vision, or the eyes may be easily wearied, or there may be weakness of the colour-sense, or narrowing of the field of vision. In heai'ing, we often find con- siderable diminution of the auditory acuteness on both sides, or more on one side than on the other, while examination with the speculum fails to reveal the slightest evidence of organic disease. Examination of smell, and particularly of taste, should never be omitted, as it is often in these sensory areas that tlie greatest disturbances show themselves. Taste may be wholly abolished or retained in respect of only some qualities. Many