285 DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. tinned to do so more or less up to the present time. When 21 the patient for the first time endeavoured to have con- nection, but, in spite of all efforts, did not succeed in obtaining an erection. Half a year later he succeeded, but ejaculation took place immediately on introduction. This occurred with every subsequent coitus, whenever the attempt was thus far successful. He noticed that when he was about 26, during his attempts at connection he sometimes suffered from slight asthma, which, however, soon passed off, although he was never troubled with any difficulty of breath- ing, even during heavy walking. About two years ago he awoke in the night, greatly alarmed, and unable to get his breath. He sprang out of bed, rushed to the window in order to get air. His medical attendant, who was hastily sum- moned, prescribed him a full dose of morphine, which relieved the paroxysms, only to recur in the same night. Mr. L. was consequently so weak that he was obliged to remain in bed for a week, and suffered a good deal from palpitation. For some weeks afterwards he felt very weak on his legs. For a whole year he remained quite free from an attack ; in the course of the last year, however, four serious paroxysms occurred. He began to lose flesh, was always languid, especially in the morning, his head felt heavy, and he was much depressed in spirits. His memory became much weaker, appetite was com- pletely wanting, nausea and frequent vomiting occurred, the bowels were sluggish, and his gait was peculiarly unsteady. About half a year ago, he felt while walking a dull heavy pain in the left testicle, which was present later on, even when sitting. He fancied he must have unconsciously squeezed the organ. Physical examination of the thin, slender built, anemic looking patient revealed nothing abnormal beyond slight emphysema. There was nothing noticeable about the painful testicle, the scrotum was lax and the penis flabby. Chemical examination of the urine showed nothing abnormal, although microscopically numerous spermatozoa could be detected in almost every specimen. Under treatment, which from the nature of the circumstances was purely local, the symptoms completely vanished. Nausea, vomiting, and loss of appetite disappeared first, normal appetite and regular action of the bowels returned, and in quite a short time