DISEASES OF THE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 297 less, towai'ds evening he suffered somewhat from oppression on the chest, and had again recourse to the pneumatic apparatus. Seminal emissions likewise became less frequent. In the course of time a relapse occurred. Nocturnal emissions frequently- occurred, even after sexual connection on the preceding night. Sleep was disturbed, and towards morning he would have a severe attack of asthma. He now consulted Dr. Miiller, who found marked pulmonary emphysema, depression of the diaphragm and complete obliteration of the cardiac dulness. Auscultation revealed everywhere purring and cooing rhonchi. As regards the sexual functions, in addition to very defective virile power and frequent nocturnal emissions, slight spermatorrhoea was present. His general health was at the time rather bad, besides neuras- thenia he was greatly depressed. Dr. H. Miiller treated the sexual troubles locally. In quite a short time mai-ked improvement in the general health took place. Asthma did not recur, and Mr. F. married. A year after Dr. H. Miiller heard from the patient that he was quite well. Causes of Sexual Astlima. If we once more pass in review the various histories of these cases, which have told us the causes of the attacks of asthma, we find that in eleven cases occurring in males spermatorrhoea was present in nine. On two occasions I did not make a thorough microscopic examination of the urine, although no doubt from the condition of the genital system I would have obtained corresponding results. Spermatorrhoea was accompanied by some functional anomaly, the most frequent being nocturnal emissions and impotence, or at any rate great loss of virile power. Twice I observed temporary aspermatismus. In the five cases occurring in women, uterine fibroid occurred once; vaginal and cervical catarrh and hyperaesthesia of the ostium vaginse, due to masturbation, once; leucorrhoea once, cause unknown, as no vaginal examination took place ; enlarge- ment, induration and catarrh of the uterus after the menopause, once ; and chronic metritis once. Case XVI. shows that there may be several causes at work in such patients in the production of asthma ; in this patient two chief causes were present.