QQ ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA vertebrse or their neighbourhood, but in other cases pressure over the spines of the vertebrae elicits no pain whatever. This pain in the back usually occurs combined with a series of excentric phenomena, and under the name of Spinal Irritation was formerly considered to represent an independent disease These symptoms are now included within the bounds ot Neurasthenia spinalis, and it is advisable to completely abandon any separate idea of spinal irritation, as its introduction is liable to perpetual confusion. _ _ ^i.^ +i. The clinical significance of this spinal pam is slight from the medical standpoint, but to hypochondriacal mastuibators and other neurasthenics it occasioas the most cruel anxiety, for they become convinced, through the violence and persistency of the pain, that it is a symptom of an organic disease of the cord. A thorough objective examination is the only thing which can root thL anxiety out of the patient's mind; the lack of al oVctive anomalies will usually be thus proved for the first time. Diacnostically difficult cases will however sometimes come under observation where a single examination may not suffice to exclude with certainty an anatomical alteration of the cord, especially commencing tabes or myelitis. There are cases m Xh, il addition to the pains in the back (rachialgia), there are shooting pains and feeling of weakness m the legs and c eS -d'crawling sensations in the feet, anesthesia, impotence, and diminution or exaggeration of the plantar reflexes. Zeated examinations here confirm the diagnosiyn he one hand through the inconstancy of the symptoms both subjective and objective, on the other by the gradual completeness attan^d by the general neurasthenic impression cmveyed. An expe- rienced neurologist will seldom make a diagnostic mistake m "th: rjunding multiplicity of the sensory "ance. is manifested as general hypercestkesia ^-^^'^'^rZ"'^^^^ in the form of a great susceptibility of the skm to touch or pressure, to heat or cold, to changes of the weather, to many vir eties of cloth. We further find the most multifarious Z^esice and ancestkesi. in the skin as well as m the deeper S parts, feelings of cold or heat in the extremities, swea ng of the ha uls and feet or abnormal dryness, creeping or crawling irations in the skin, transitory disturbance of muscular sensi-