99 LUNG INFECTION. another succumb in the years of youth ; we can assume without hesitation that 50 per cent, of them die of tuberculosis. And this not with any hereditary predisposition, but solely as a conse- quence of work in the hospital and strict obedience to the rules of their order. The young girls who pass into their ranks as candidates come almost without exception from the country. These enter on their work with fresh red cheeks and vigorous frames. After the lapse of a few months, in rare cases after the lapse of years, appears the ominous pallor, which is generally the forei'rmner of pulmonary hasmorrhage. It would be really too absurd to suppose that these healthy, fresh, country girls were all hereditarily predisposed to tuberculosis; but, in spite of sound constitutions, one after another with dreadful regularity falls a victim. Is anything more required to prove the direct infectiveness of tuberculosis, or the dangers which attach to the deprivation of fresh air and exercise, the limitation of the hours of sleep, and the want of rest and recreation attendant on the harassing duties of the sick-chamber ? I shall return to this question when dis- cussing the prophylaxis; it is so serious a one that all in whose power it lies to change things for the better must lay it to heart. The final proofs of the direct communication of tuberculosis to the previously healthy are the cases of unintended inoculation of tubercle, cases where a trifling lesion, such as the extraction of a tooth or a slight cut, has led to secondary swelling of the lym- phatic glands, and where these glands, when removed, showed giant-cells with tubercle bacilli in their interior. But cases like this are all susceptible of varying interpretation, since the bacilli in them may date their origin from an earlier period, and may have been first brought to light merely through the traumatic lymphadenitis. Doubt can always be thrown on the convincing character of such an experiment, so long as we have no certain criterion of the complete absence of bacilli in the lymphatic glands previous to the occurrence of the accidental inoculation. And we can scarcely indulge the hope of ever attaining to such a criterion. We have now described all the essential conditions which favour the lodgment of the tubercle bacillus in the human body. It only remains to relate what we know of the way in which the bacilli settle, grow, and spread, and of the forces which the organism can depend upon to guard against them.