44 BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF choke galls on the Quercus pechmculata, a variety of the JEnglish oah, Quercus rohus), and the Mossy galls, also called " Rose Bede- gtiars " or " Robin Redbreasts pincushion," the first of which (the oak galls) are produced by several kinds of wasp (mostly by some species of Gynijjs), the latter (the mossy gallsj resembling bundles of moss, frequently of most luxuriant and showy forma- tion, are caused by the Rhodites rosarum which infests the Rosa spinosissima and Eglanteria. There is a particular charm to be found in the study of the manifoldness of these formations and of the process of their de- velopment. They offer so interesting a parallel with the formation of genuine tumours in animals, that we might well be induced to arrange them into similar groups as tumours according to theii' form. There would be no difficulty in arranging groups, as for example. Papilloma, Polypus, Fibroma, Sarcoma, Osteoma, &c. I have already mentioned that carcinomatous ulcerations and luxuriations in plants are also spoken of. We are here only interested in learning whether particulars are known of the mode of development of these gall formations, as there is no longer any doubt about their cause and their growth in general. The one fact we can accept as certain, is that the slight mechanical inj ury caused by the insects in the deposition of their eggs into, or upon, the surface of a plant, can never be alone the cause of gall formation, however high we may value the separa- tion of continuity as a formative stimulus in plants. Even the hypertrophical cicatricial callus (" Narbeniiberwallung"), as it especially occurs after lesions of the bark, have neither in struc- ture nor in form any resemblance to galls. They are always in proportion in shape and depth to the injury, as we know from letters cut in the stems of young trees in which the deeply incised parts are replaced by wheals formed of minute warts. Here the forces of regeneration and growth combine in order to produce a new formation pathological both in form and structure. The comparison with cheloid cicatrices readily suggests itself, though also in the latter the fatalistic formation of growths does not enter into the question. Already the fact that only certain kinds of animals produce galls of specific forms on certain kinds of plants is an indication that here quite particular conditions come into action. It may