TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF TKE SPINAL CORD. 375 symptoms), recovered equally well Avithout any specific treatment whatever.* The lesson taught by all these observations is this, that while specific treatment in tabes is to a certain extent justified, we must by no means look upon it when used alone as a panacea. It gives the fairest prospect of success in those cases (1) in which no great interval has elapsed between the infection and the first tabetic symptoms ; (2) in which, apart from syphilis, there has been no other cause of any importance ; and (3) in which the disease is yet in the initial stages. The longer the interval between infection and the appearance of spinal symp- toms, the longer the latter have already existed, and the more advanced the disease is, the less can we expect from anti- syphilitic treatment; although it must be allowed that some- times success has been attained even in cases where a considerable interval has elapsed before the appearance of the tabetic symptoms, and where they have already lasted for many years (Rumpf^*). But this corresponds perfectly to what we know of the efiects of specific treatment on syphilitic affections of the central nervous system generally. It is possible to suppose that the virus still remaining in the body (the syphilitic microbes) is destroyed or rendered innocuous by the treatment, and that further deleterious working on the spinal cord is checked. It is possible further to suppose that retro- gression of the sj^hilitic changes in the vessels, neuroglia, and meninges is initiated by the treatment. But it is not conceivable that we can in this way start the re-formation of fibres that have disappeared. On the other hand, it is not only conceivable,, but has been repeatedly proved by experience, that when a degeneration of the posterior columns has become thoroughly established, a vigorous course of mercury may do great harm. By its weakening influence on the whole body it may favour the progress of the degeneration, or at least it may hinder any approach to functional compensation. In any case the adoption of specific treatment in tabes as in other spinal lesions requires great caution. Especially in the case of the administration of mercury the patient must be carefully and constantly watched. And our experience certainly does not justify us in neglecting * Lowenfeld. Uebcr Spinallahmung mit ataxie. Archiv. f. Psychiatrie, Vol. XV., part 2, Case II.