STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. 317 we were not aware of their existence we should easily meet with great difficulties and confusion in our estimate of the seat of the coarse lesion. They are important, furthermore, in respect of the question of simulation, which, for obvious reasons, plays a large part here. In cases where coarse lesions are most unques- tionably present it is impossible* that the patients can have any object in complaining, besides, about a number of pretended subjective troubles. As, however, the nature of these troubles, the mental depression, the feelings of pain, the lack of energy, &c., are quite the same as in pure traumatic neurosis, the com- plaints in the latter disease gain in objective credibility. In agreement with most other neurologists who have seriously considered the subject, I must express my conviction that simulation in this disease is by no means so common as many physicians appear to believe. The symptoms of a well-developed case are so peculiar and characteristic that I can scarcely under- stand how it could be simulated. It would be astonishing, indeed, if patients in Berlin, Leipzig, Erlangen, and everywhere else, were to falsify the story of their complaints in exactly the same way. It is easy to understand that there is such a thing as simulation after bodily injury, also that it may be often very difficult to distinguish the simulated from the real morbid condition; but that this difficulty arises with anything like frequency is, in my experience, not the case. I believe it is almost always easy, especially if you have had the patient under observation for some time in hospital, to give a quite positive opinion. I have endeavoured in the foregoing to lay before you a brief outline of the features of general traumatic neurosis, and of its meaning and importance. Let us now turn to another group of nervous disorders, also associated with injuries, to which we may give the name local traumatic neuroses. The cases I am thinking of are, to begin with, cases not of severe injury causing general shock, but of injuries that in themselves are often of very little importance, mostly bruises of some limited area, generally in one of the extremities. The patients get a fall on the knee or a blow on the arm, get a finger crushed, or some such similar accident, and as a result of the hurt, which is often to all appear- ance very trifling, there follow a number of distinct nervous : ■