SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 135 granular contents, with from two to five finely granulated nuclei, and these epithelioid-cells finally run into giant-cells. Thirdly, the giant-cells are always doomed to fatty metamorphosis, and are converted neither into connective tissue, nor into blood-vessels. Ziegler makes the giant-cells form from white blood-corpuscles between glass slides. Weiss believes that Ziegler might have found giant-cells also outside that capillary space. As regards the formation of giant-cells, it may be mentioned that Haidenhain was the first who observed the development of' giant-cells in connection with foreign bodies. Baumgarten found such around the ligature after tying arteries, and considers them to be genuine tubercule giant-cells {Langhanns), with nuclei attached to the cell-wall Q'wanclstaenclige Kerne"). Marcliand, in his experiments on animals, found likewise genuine giant-cells with twenty to thirty and more nuclei attaclied to the cell-wall, around healed-in silk fibres, or particles of sponge, besides multi-- nuclear epithelial cells. In contradiction to Ziegler, Tillmanns, and Gonheim, who will have them developing from white blood- corpuscles, he considers the foreign body giant-cells to be formed from fixed tissue-cells, not like Weiss, from lyphoid, i.e., granu- lation-cells, but from endothelioid-cells. Thus considering the giant-cells as really living cells, and not like others (Arnold, Tlwmct) as a product of degeneration, he believes with VircJioio, Baumgarten, Flemming, and others, that they were produced by the growth of one single cell. The purpose of my own investigations was the study of the microscopic alterations in the environs of the foreign bodies, and at the same time of the histological conditions after healing-in had taken place. On the real nature of the healing-in process, and the participation of the difierent tissue elements on the above-mentioned theories, on the formation of connective tissue and giant-cells I shall therefore only in passing state my views. In the microscopic appearances which I observed in the sur- rounding tissues in the earlier stages of the healing-in of solid foreign bodies, the closely contiguous cells presented, with the vascular loops between them, a kind of granulation-tissue. In the third week the inner layer already showed the character of endothelioid-cells of different size, with or without scanty fibrillte between them, unless the most superficial layer undergoing con- tinual disintegration presents a structureless substance.