292 rEYER ON ASTHMA AND Ileal thy child. Dui-ing the whole of pregnancy she remained perfectly free from any distress of breathing. Shortly after, liowever, it returned, gradually increasing in severity. The presence of leucorrhoea necessitated a vaginal examination, which revealed chronic uterine catarrh. The patient also stated that she suffered, when single, a good deal from " whites." Local treatment of the uterine affection also cured the asthma. Mrs. G. has since remained quite well. Case XIII.—Chronic Metritis. Phrenic Asthma. The second case is that of a peasant woman, eetat. 52, widowed for about 10 years. She had had four children; ceased to men- struate some five years ago without any troubles worth mentioning. About the same time difficulty of breathing commenced. Whilst working, or during animated conversation, or in bed—in fact, at any time or anywhere—the patient, who was robust, well-nourished, but slightly anemic, would feel at times a weight on the chest which compelled her to take a deep breath. To her terror she noticed she could no longer breathe in deeply; she became alarmed; blood rushed to the head and she was greatly agitated. Suddenly she succeeded in inspiring deeply, the oppression vanished, and the patient was quite well again. These attacks would come on some five or ten times a day, but sometimes not for several days together. There was, moreover, well-marked globus hystericus. Different medical men and the patient herself attributed the main cause of her troubles to a fall down-stairs which happened some years before. My personal experience and the presence of the globus hystericus rather induced me to refer her illness to some uterine trouble. Examination .revealed a somewhat enlarged uterus, and leucorrhoea. Local treatment, systematically carried out, of the uterine affection alleviated, and finally cured, the asthma. Case XIV.—Masturhation. Gonorrhoea imssing into Gleet. Seminal Mnissions. Phrenic Asthma. Parents healthy, as also two brothers and a sister. When a boy, from 8 to 14 years, the patient suffered from earaclie and poverty of blood; the latter was the cause of languor and palpi- tation. When 17 he went to business; there, through bad