16 BILLROTH ON THE MUTUAL ACTION OF and convert the alcohol into acetic acid. In most cases during rapid fermentation the acid fermentation soon commences along- side the alcoholic fermentation. The same thing takes place in the transition of lactic into butyric acid fermentation, &c. If we apply the same notion, e.g., to a phlegmonous process set up by the Staphylococcus aureus, we may presume that the coccus vegetation which in healthy tissue fluids energetically thrives and rapidly spreads into the interstices of the tissue, will sooner or later partly be destroyed by the products of change of matter, partly be impaired in its vegetative energy, and consequently more and more slowly extend into the healthy tissue. At the commencement the victory is entirely with the microbes, gradu- ally, however, their vigour grows weaker, and now the tissue cells and leucocytes can again successfully take up the battle for the nutritive material, which the microbes in their state of exhaustion can no longer materially alter. I made the following observation in the fluid contents of metastatically inflamed articulations which I repeatedly punctured: the first, as yet moderately clear, fluid obtained by puncture contained a large quantity of streptococci, but only few pus cells. A few daj's later the fluid was already changed into thin pus with few strep- tococci but a prevailing quantity of pus cells. Again, somewhat later there were scarcely any more streptococci to be found in the pure and already somewhat thickened pus. The pus cells, therefore, had finally conquered the whole field; the streptococci had perished in the chemical and morphological products of its own vegetative activity. Experiments in artificial cultivation yielded another important result ; they showed that microbes on the identical nutritive medium, in which in the beginning thej^ most luxuriantly throve, gradually perished, even when the new generations had again and again been transplanted into new nutritive media of exactly the same kind. Before the complete cessation of their vegetation, the growth gradually became weaker and weaker, and more slow; the forms no longer attained their perfect development, and their elements in experimentative inoculations were ever decreasing until their virulence was entirely exhausted. It would therefore seem that these minute and most simple plants are as little capable as larger plants of more complicated structure, of growing continually with uniform vigour, but that they