259 ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTliOPHY. which are instances of pure fibrous or fatty degeneration, in which there are only the scattered remnants of hypertrophied or atrophied muscle-fibres, there is every conceivable stage, com- bination, and transition. Not uncommonly in one individual, nay, in different parts of one and the same muscle, every stage and degree of the morbid process can be studied. I show you here a drawing, itself diagrammatic certainly, but copied from different actual preparations, and true in its details, which will bring before you these different stages and forms (see fig. 4). If 5-0U study now the state of the different muscles, and attend to the degree of morbid change and the duration of the disease in each, which can be brought out by looking at the condition of the tissue elements in the various preparations, you will recognise that the most important and the earliest changes are those in the muscle-fibres. The alteration in the connective tissue may at the utmost begin in a small measure at the same time, but more probably follows the changes in the muscle. The lipomatosis, last of all, makes its appearance in the oversrrown connective tissue. According to our present knowledge the cause of the morbid changes in the muscles is somewhat as follows: First, there are alterations in the muscular substance itself. These hyper- trophy and their nuclei proliferate ; they swell up, taking more of a rounded form, and slitting and subdivision goes on ; 'pari -passu there is slight increase and proliferation of nuclei in the connective tissue. At an early period, how^ever, muscle- fibres here and there atrophy, and this process quickly extends more or less, gradually gaining the upper hand, and finally leading to complete disappearance of the muscle-substance. Along with it goes on a very great increase in the amount of the connective tissue, with proliferation of the nuclei, thickening of the vessels, and so forth. In this tissue, sooner or later, fat cells make their appearance, leading, it may be, to the most extreme forms of fatty degeneration. The muscular fibre has now wholly, or about wholly, disappeared, and the final result of the whole process is one of two forms. It may be an atrophic and sclerosing lipomatosis, in which there is a good deal of pure connective tissue without much fat, and the original volume is very much reduced, or it may be a hypertrophic lipomatosis