SALZER ON THE HEALE!^G-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. between the indiviclual fibres. Later on the threads were com- pletely separated, and at odd places totally unravelled. The surrounding tissues behaved very differently in the sundry experiments: (1) the ligature was encapsuled by neivly-formed thick connective tissue, hetiveen the threads there was young granulation tissue; (2) the ligature lay free in the abdominal cavity after having slipped off from the tied portion, but after- wards it became adherent to other parts, that is, by young cells from the serous membrane growing into it; (3) it lay within a small cystic cavity of the ligatm-ed tissue. MasloivsU proved experimentally that, compared with man, dogs more easily bear metallic ligatures than silk ones, that silk, iron, copper, silver, and silkworm-gut ligatures are invariably encapsuled by neivly-formed connective tissue (there being at the same time a small quantity of pus around the silk). In dogs the eschar at the cornu of the uterus is not separated by sup- puration, but is encapsuled by newly-formed connective tissue, thus uniting it with the surrounding parts. Wegner found granules of Indian ink which had been injected into the abdominal cavity, and of which only part had been absorbed, enclosed partly in the endothelial cells of the serous membrane, partly in delicate connective tissue. They lay, forming isolated coarser black bodies, close to the abdominal wall or the peritoneal coat of the liver, on which they were encapsuled by a thin layer of serous-like tissue. Tillmanns implanted pieces of dead tissue, of liver, kidney, &c., hardened in alcohol, into the abdominal cavity of animals, in order to study the process of cicatrisation. He found that the interstices of these foreign bodies actually fill up with colourless blood-cells, and vascular connective tissue finally forms within them. Catgut was absorbed after seventeen days; silk was still unchanged after six weeks, whilst the dead tissue sur- rounding the silk had long disappeared. Tillmanns believes that catgut, and very likely later on the silk also, is destroyed by the intrusion of wandering cells, and is replaced by connective tissue, in a similar way as in the case of the ligatured ovarian pedicle ; this view, however, does not agree with the afore-men- tioned experiments of Waldeyer. Ilallwachs found in dogs, around silk healed-in for eight months in the peritoneal cavity, in close contact with the foreign body a