184. HOFMEISTER ON DIABETES MELLITUS. literature on the subject, prognosis is far away most unfavourable in childhood. Positively remarkable and inexplicable is the great tolerance of old age (about 70). It is not rare to find among the last cases, in the presence of very considerable- quantity of sugar (300 grms. [4,500 grs.] and more per diem), quite insignificant symptoms—somewhat disturbed sleep, slight languor, slight increase of thirst and of appetite, &c. I know an old lady who has been diabetic for 10 years, where the urine shows an amount of sugar from 4 to 7 per cent., and in addition contains albumen, who will not submit to anti- diabetic regimen, and whose general condition is so good, in spite of slight oedema of the ankles, that she is able to go about enjoying without hindrance all the pleasures of society, and will have nothing to do with any medical treatment. As regards prognosis and duration, it is of great importance to determine whether diabetes at the outset is of the grave form, i.e., whether from the very beginning sugar is excreted, in spite of exclusive meat diet. Such cases are the saddest of all. Even in the slight form of the disease, the prognosis must be guarded; for, in the first place, the patient may unexjDectedly succumb quickly to one or other of the terminations of diabetes ; and secondly, because the grave form may suddenly appear from some severe injury, or even without any manifest cause. Conversely, I have also noticed some cases which passed into the grave form after a severe nervous shock, and continuing so for some weeks, returned to the slight form with subsidence of the nervous disturbance. Last summer, in Carlsbad, I observed a very striking case of this kind. A lady, whose statements may be thoroughly relied upon, had been suffering for three years^ from a very slight form of the disease, inasmuch as every trace of sugar disappeared as soon as she was placed on anti-diabetic diet. At the beginning of the Carlsbad treatment in the previous year she was much distressed at the sudden death of a member of her family, and passed several sleepless nights. Thereupon, sugar re- appeared in the urine (3 to 4 per cent.), and the excretion persisted for 14 days, in spite of rigid observance of Cantani's diet. ^ No one could doubt that the grave form arose out of the slight; 14 days after, however, the sugar gradually decreased, and^ at the end of the third week the slight form returned, and during the last days of treatment the patient was even able to enjoy