197 HOFMEISTER OS DIABETES MELLITUS. to for their bracing effects. Where a tendency to furunculosin exists, any powerful stimulus to the skin must be avoided, e.g., wet pack, a prolonged use of which will even in healthy subjects produce an outbreak of boils. For thepreservation of the skin, which may require special attention on account of its dry and harsh character, ordinary luke-warm baths, 26^—27° K. (90|°—92^° ¥.), with perhaps a little mild hard soap, maybe taken once or twice a week. The most scrupulous attention to the mouth and teeth cannot be too strongly insisted upon. Formation of aplitha3, sponginess of the gums, the great tendency to caries of the teeth due to acid secretions of the buccal cavity, may be best prevented by frequently rinsing out the mouth and throat with a lotion of chlorate of potash or of salicylic acid to which a little bicarbonate of soda is added. The teeth and gums should be brushed with a soft tooth-brush, and the interstices freed from any particles of food, which become so soon offensive. According to experience catching cold always renders the diabetic's condition worse; he clothes himself instinctively in thick garments, even in warm seasons, and during winter does not care to leave the heated room. The best protection against cold is after all the tone imparted by hydropathy. Those patients, however, to whom this treatment is inappropriate, or are disinclined to follow it, should spend at least several hotirs daily in the open air, e.g., in light gai-dening, farming pursuits, hunting, fishing, riding, and driving, at first in fine weather, later on at all times. The well-to-do may pass the winter in one of the Southern health resorts. Care must be constantly exercised in having the sitting and bedrooms well aired. Active muscular exercise is of very great value in those strong enough to take it; ifc alwaj's diminishes the excretion of sugar, and improves the general well-being of the patient. Any muscular over-exertion must be avoided, and extended intervals of rest from bodily as Avell as mental exercise should always be allowed. From expe- rience, a long unbroken journey, especially when accompanied by worry and trouble of all kinds, is very detrimental as regards the amount of sugar excreted. To introduce regularity in work is best wherever possible. For weak and debilitated patients unable to work, passive movements and easy Swedish gymnastic exercises form a good, substitute. In such cases