LOWENFELD ON RECENT ADVANCES IN THE 352 alteration without becoming useless or failing in their physio- logical functions. As in the case of the fibres, the persistence of the axis-cylinders is sufficient, so the cells also may be reduced to but a fraction of their normal size and still be perfectly equal to all their work. A case related by Adam- kiewicz for example, brings this out in a very striking manner. By the pressure of a tumour on the left half of the lower portion of the cervical enlargement, the cells were reduced to the one- thirty-second part of the normal, and yet this caused no symptoms whatever during life. " We are in the dark also as to how far changes in the neuroglia are capable of retrogression. The neuroglia is involved in a large number of acute and chronic inflammatory processes, from which recovery frequently takes place, so that it may be assumed that, up to a certain point, changes in this substance may undergo retrogression. Several observations in patho- logical anatomy are in favour of this view, such as the slight changes in the neuroglia which have been found after recovery from myelitic processes. This much, however, appears certain, that if it has been transformed into a delicate fibrillar tissue, consisting mostly of longitudinal bundles with a wavy course— a transformation which we often come across in the later stages of chronic myelitis—retrogression in this case is out of the question. Simple changes in the circulation, anaemia and hypersemia of the cord, may undoubtedly disappear again. But as to whether, and how far, alterations in the vessel-walls, such as proliferation of nuclei, fatty degeneration, and sclerosis, can undergo retrogression, we are still quite in the dark. From the foregoing it may be perceived that structural changes in the cord are capable of retrogression only to a very limited extent, at any rate are not susceptible of complete recovery to nearly the same extent as molecular alterations. We have to take into account here another circumstance which is by no means favourable from a therapeutic point of view. As not only molecular but also anatomical changes can exist without affecting the functional capacities of the nervous elements, we cannot identify the clinical with the anatomical commencement of the affection. Changes in the cord may precede by a considerable time the advent of distinct spinal symptoms. This fact gives us an