ERB ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 251 iiuinber of the cases in children the lesion appears to commence in the face. In this position it may remain unnoticed for a particularly long time, and it is only when it has gone very far, has given to the patient a peculiar expression, and gravely affected the facial movements, that it attracts attention. As the disease progresses, the growing weakness and defect in the movements of the muscles always become associated with distinct changes in their volume. These changes are of two kinds : we may have atrophy, and this is generally manifested in certain particular muscles, or we may have hypertrophy, most prominent in certain other particular muscles ; the latter may be true hypertrophy or, especially in the later stages, false or fatty hypertrophy. It is not improbable that in the case of most oif the muscles there is a hypertrophic stage, which very seldom comes under observation, as the patients in general only seek medical aid when there is already atrophy. This is the impression, at any rate, made by the study of the morbid changes in some of the muscles. The dividing lines between hj'^ertrophy and atrophy in individual cases certainly shift about in the most varied fashion, and the following list of the muscles which are most commonly atrophied and of those which are most commonly hypertrophied is only to be taken in a very general way, and as admitting of many exceptions. In moderately advanced cases the following muscles are found for the most part more or less atrophied: The pectoralis major and minor (except, generally, the clavicular portion), trapezius, latissimus dorsi, serratus magnus, rhomboids, sacro- lumbalis and longissimus dorsi. Fui'ther, and this is very characteristic, the flexors in the upper arm (biceps and brachialis anticus), including the supinator longus. In addition to these, there may also be affected the lateral abdominal muscles, the glutaei and quadriceps femoris, frequently, also, the adductors ; in the leg the peroneal muscles, and particularly the tibialis anticus. In all these muscles, along with the atrophy, there is growingly distinct motor weakness. If the face is involved it is especially the muscles around the mouth and chin which atrophy, frequently also the orbiculares palpebrarum and frontales. The following muscles are generally, though, as I have said, often only for a time, hypertrophied : the deltoid, infraspinatus (more rarely also the supraspinatus) and triceps in the upper half of the