78 ZIEMSSEN ON NEURASTHENIA liimting, cycling, batliing, gymnastics, country excursions, moderate mountaineering, &c., are greatly to be recommended. It is of the greatest service to young people to compel them to join a gymnastic club ; they soon acquire an interest in the bodily exercises, while, thanks to the companionship of their fellow- members, they are charmed out of their apathetic and hypochon- driacal state of mind. Short trips of a few days' duration are also very suitable—to visit a friend, for instance, or a great city, or a watering-place— the new impressions are wonderfully salutary. I have pre- scribed such short health excursions not unfrequently in mid- winter with good results. It is taken for granted in the foregoing that the patient's physical strength is sufficient, that the bodily exertion does not increase his exliaustion. On this important matter a conclusion must in difficult cases be arrived at by experimentation and observation of results. Beard points out with perfect justice that myelasthenic patients more especially may have their con- dition positively deteriorated by fatiguing journeys, the lack of domestic comforts, and the hardships entailed by visits to picturesque localities, great cities, picture galleries, &c. My experience quite agrees with Beard's. Be very cautious, gentlemen, how you prescribe so-called recruiting trips. Long journeys are to be undertaken only by the healthy. For the sick, when a change of scene is indicated, it is better to assign them an agreeable but not too remote locality, where the patient can stay some time, and whence he can take longer or shorter excursions according to the state of his strength. If the patient feels comfortable there, with good lodging and diet, careful attendance and agreeable company, he will also thrive physically, put on weight, he will eat and sleep better; while, on the other hand, the restless excitement of continual locomotion, with all the consequences it entails, only renders him the more unquiet. The sea-coast is very agreeable to some patients as a place of sojourn, and they acquire new strength and freshness every year by sea-bathing. These are for the most part physically robust individuals, who only suffer from a relative excess of mental labour. The stimulating effect exercised by the sea-bathing, and the constant movement through air and water, will be tolerated just