ERU ON PROGRESSIVE MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY. 253 absence of the usual fixation by the rhomboids and trapezius. The thinness of the upper arm is very striking, from the large size of the deltoid above and the powerful forearm below. The latter has more of a cylindrical form than usual in its uppei- portion from the absence of the supinator longus. The infraclavicular fossa is hollowed out and there is an oblique groove alongside the insertion of the deltoid, from the absence of the pectorals. The wasted condition of the thigh is brought out by contrast with the well-developed buttock and the huge calf. The walk is peculiarly waddling and high stepping, with pointing of the toes ; mounting stairs is difl&cult. The way in which the patient sits down on the ground and rises up again is highly characteristic; in the latter movement he gets on all fours, with the legs extended, and then, with his hands, climbs up his own legs, attaining the upright position at the last with a jerk. The weakness of the quadriceps, erector spina?, and gluteei is responsible for this. The shoulders are very slack, and if the patient is lifted up by the armpits, the shoulders rise at once to the ears (weakness of the latissimi, pectorals and trapezii). Not uncommonly, especially in children, we notice an anomalous condition of the lower part of the thorax. It is flat and retracted in the middle from the action of the powerful rectus abdominis and prominent at the sides, the edges looking almost as if turned up. The latter appearance is due to the weakness of the oblique and transverse abdominal muscles ; at the attempt to raise the head in the lying position these muscles appear as two soft tumours in the lateral aspect of the abdomen. If the face is affected early and in a high degree, a characteristic facial expression is produced ("facies myopathique" of the French). The countenance is like a mask, smooth and immovable, the lips thick and prominent, "tapir lips," the patient is unable to whistle, to close the lips firmly, or to wrinkle the eyebrows ; the play of features is poor, and there is a very peculiar alteration in the smile (grunes Lachen, rire en tr avers). This picture, it is well-known, can be modified in a great variety of ways. The distribution and intensity of the process, the difference in the way it affects the upper and lower half of the body, the absence or presence of hypertrophy, the