310 STRUMPELL ON TRAUMATIC NEUROSES. patients, for example, can feel tlie taste of salt or sugar and not of quinine. All these sensory lesions are so common in traumatic neurosis, and present in so cliaracteristic a way, that they are of the utmost value in the diagnosis and proper estimation of cases of the affection. Among subjective pains we have already mentioned the liypersesthesia at the seat of injury. Pains in the back and headaches also are common, though not, for the most part, specially severe. In many cases the remarkable tenderness of the head to percussion is characteristic. Motor symptoms are present in almost all the more developed cases. In neurotic cases, without special local manifestations, the commonest symptom is general muscular weakness, or, to express it more exactly, general weakness of voluntary innervation. With good muscular development and an appearance of strength they are unable to grasp firmly with the hand or to lift any heavy weight, and exertion exhausts them easily. Their walk is generally slow and laboured, but varies very much when local disturbances are added to the general weakness. Very often when the original injury has aff'ected the haunch or back, these parts continue to be painful, and the pain is increased by any movement or shaking of the body. Patients suffering in this way, in going about, avoid all the more pronounced flexions of the sphie, keep the back somewhat bent, but at the same time as rigid as possible, and endeavour to support the haunch with the hand. A good while ago I had under observation an officer who was affected with severe traumatic neurosis in consequence of a fall from his horse. He was so afraid of any great movement of the spinal column, especially of the slightest turning of the head, that he could not directly turn round to look at any object near him, but with timid steps described the arc of a great circle through the room. Besides the general muscular weakness, there are very fre- quently certain symptoms indicating motor irritation. These are chiefly tremors and rigidity and stiffiiess of the muscles. We shall devote more attention to these in describing the local traumatic neuroses, but even in the general form they are some- times very marked in certain limbs. We have trembling of the arms, especially when the patients stretch them out unsupported,