95 MORTALITY IN PRISONS. oxygen and rich in carbonic acid; the inspirations with the sedentary mode of life are not deep enough, the lungs are not properly expanded, the metabolism of the tissues in consequence of the want of open air exercise is limited to that attendant on arduous muscular toil, the desire for food becomes less, and its appetising power is diminished by the monotonous character of the dietaiy. The preparation also of the meals and the quantities allowed often leave a good deal to be desired. In addition to these in the case of prisoners we have the mental factors: remorse, longing for freedom, desire to see their families, the compulsory intercourse with the scum of mankind, solitary confinement, and the absence of any stimulus whatever. Sur- rounded by this set of weakening influences the whole organism gets into a lowered condition, in which the ever-present tubercle bacilli readily find admission. It is no doubt generally allowed that in establishments of this kind consumption has gained a firm footing, but the enormous extent to which the inmates fall victims is not perhaps known as it should be. The figures which V. Baer gives in his article in the " Zeitschriffc fur klinische Medicin" bring out that in prisons the death-rate from con- sumption is three to four times as high as it is outside. Eeckon- ing the general mortality from consumption as one-seventh, or from fourteen to fifteen per cent., we find that in prisons tubercle is the cause of from forty to fifty per cent., or about half of the total number of deaths. The numbers, of course, vary. For example, in the Austrian prisons the deaths due to consumption in a period of four years amount to 61 per cent, of the whole, while in the Bavarian prisons for a period of eight years they only amount to 38-2 per cent. The death-rate in the different penal institutions also seems to vary according to their construc- tion and organisation. At any rate it is stated that tuberculosis accounts for far more than 60 per cent, of the deaths in the prisons arranged for solitary confinement in cells. The fact that the mortality reaches its maximum in the later years of confinement is very striking. The infection is thus not simply communicated in these confined quarters as soon as the prisoner sets foot in the establishment; in the majority of in- stances it requires a process of lowering of the constitution going on for some time to prepare the organism for the settlement of the bacilli.