SALZER ON THE HEALING-IN OF FOREIGN BODIES. 129 cells. These cells possess a distinct nucleus, whilst the outline of the cell is not always clearly visible. Between this innermost layer and the afore-mentioned vascular structure there is at some places a layer of varying thickness of closely packed endothelioid cells, the cementing intercellular substance Kittsuhstanz") of which is rendered distinct on staining by the silver process, whilst the nuclei at the surface are here and there in the act of division. (See Jigs. 9 and 10.) There was no trace of lime-deposits on the piece of lead. I had no opportunity of observing deposits of lime on healed-in foreign bodies, but I once found a considerable quantity around a steel needle, lodged in an abscess in the right iliac fossa, which evidently had perforated from the ctecum. Fischer states that incrustation of lime on bullets only takes place in cases of long persistent suppuration. Another foreign body which I have seen encapsuled in a cystic space was a long steel nail, which was left in a resection-wound, and which was extirpated by i¥r. MacHwen. Steel nails which had been fastened into bones are frequently so firmly impacted in the bone after five to six weeks, that their extraction may be attended with considerable difiiculty. These observations on human preparations were completed by the investigation of animal preparations. The experiments referring to them were instituted with the view of studying more exactly the tissue alterations around some kinds of foreign bodies, especially of glass, and of testing their fitness for thera- peutical purposes. I shall give in the following some observations as examples:— (1) Glass splinters introduced into the cellular tissue of the neck, the back, or under the fascia of the gluteal region oT rabbits, healed-in by firpt intention. Two months after the operation the following was found: the sharply-edged splinters lay in the aforesaid parts of the body, in cysts containing very little fluid, the walls of which consisted of a white thin capsule of connective tissue, with an inner surface, resembling and shinino- like a serous membrane. After hardening in alcohol, verticS and horizontal sections were made through the capsule; in the vertical sections were seen distinctly concentric layers of con- nective tissue, near the inner surface numerous round cells, but no endothelial arrangement of these cells. It was remarkable of