TREATMENT OF CHRONIC DISEASE OF THE SPINAL CORD. 353 indication of great importance in practice. In the majority of the chronic affections of the cord associated with structural lesion there is probably, to begin with, a stage of merely molecular alteration in the nerve elements. This, which may proceed from disturbances in the circulation, or may be established independent of such, forms the groundwork from which develops the structural change. The earlier treatment is begun, the more may we expect that we have to do, in part at any rate, merely with molecular changes, in other words the greater is the prospect of bringing back things to the normal. Practical experience teaches us every day that these are not merely theoretical considerations. It is a deplorable error to suppose that if our half measures, or expectant treatment as it is called, should turn out to be useless, there will yet be time for some more energetic course. The attitude of waiting observation, which is so often assumed in the case of diseases of other organs with so much advantage, is out of place here, and the short time during which there is still a chance of recovery, or at least improvement, may very easily be wasted away by adopting it. On the other hand, we must not omit to observe that in'^the choice and management of remedies in the initial stages of chronic disease of the spinal cord it is absolutely necessary to exercise the utmost care. For just as suitable treatment may assist in quieting down the disturbances complained of, and may pave the way for the recovery of the patient, treatment that is unsuitable may have an opposite effect; it may favour and hasten the transition of molecular into structural changes—in other words, may lessen, if it does not destroy altogether the possibility of recovery. But while I lay stress on the necessity of treating chronic spinal affections as early and as carefully as possible, I would by no means encourage the notion that in old and advanced cases any serious treatment is useless. Even in those cases we are frequently able to put a stop to the con- tinuance of the morbid process, and to bring about improvement • sometimes, though, of course, not often, we may have recovery in the clinical sense of the word, that is, complete subsidence of all the functional disorders.* These results are probably chiefly to be referred to the circumstance that in the affected portions of A A