ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. closure of the posterior iiares in deglutition imperfectly produced, swallowing of solid food impossible; sensibility of the raucous membrane of the throat and entrance to the larynx distinctly lowered ; epiglottis immovable and turned to the right; right vocal cord sluggish, left completely paralysed in the cadaveric position ; staggering gait, inclination to fall backward, especially when eyes are shut; upper and lower extremities on right side very paretic ; sensibility and electrical reactions normal, knee-jerk exaggerated, ankle clonus not elicited on either side. Old consolidation at right apex, herpetic eruption on left upper eyelid. On the 23rd, all the symptoms especially those connected Avith the circulation and respiration much worse. Condition in the highest degree threatening. From this day onwards had 45 gi-aius of iodide of potash daily. By the 25th distinct improvement could be noted, especially in the speech and in the difficulty of swallowing. On the 26th, improvement in those two respects still more marked and rather more power of movement in tongue and left half of palate. Paralysis of left external rectus and left vocal cord still complete. Ineffective coughing efforts followed by noisy inspira- tions ; latter also present in laughing. In the next few days the ptosis in the left side disappeared, the anaesthesia and absence ot reflexes in the mucous membrane of the throat and larynx and the paralysis of the extremities in the right side all improved. By the end of the month patient could walk about in the room without a stick; right leg dragged a little in walking, and strength tor coarse movements in left upper extremity still subnormal. rora the end of May to the beginning of July, when the patient by his own desire was dismissed, there was little further change m his condition though the iodide was continued throughout. Patient was seen again on the 29th April, 1888, that is a year after the appearance of the first symptoms. His condition then was as follows : left external rectus still paralysed. On the attempt to look to the left the eyeball is slightly rotated upwards; left pupil still distinctly smaller than the right, reacts slowly to licU, rather better to accommodation for distance. Facial paresis is gone, whistling quite normal; tongue can be moved m all directions, but points slightly to the right when V^otM Speech still somewhat indistinct, slight slurring of the syllables, and after speaking for a time easily exhausted. Care is necessary in swallowing, and if it is quickly done he chokes himseli Sensory and reflex activity of mucous membrane of the tl" oat and entrance to the larnyx still under the normal. Uvu a t-ne^ th^^^ ri<.ht, arch of the palate standing a little lower on the eft than on the right side, and in vocalizing movement on left side lags behind Strength of the upper extremity for coarse movements not . et properly restored, hnt patient works the whole day at his emp oy- ment a a locksmith. Arm can be lifted to the vertical position without pain. Eight leg can be lifted, though with some cffoi t.