272 PEYER ON ASTHMA AND origin is the same: the nerve endings are morbidly- irritated and transfer the irritation to the central organs. This irritation may be produced either through catarrh developing in the vicinity of the nerve endings, or through hyperplasia of the surrounding tissue, or through dry atrophic catarrh, which destroys the respiratory mucosa in places, thus rendering the nerve endings more sensitive, or through derangement and obstinate catarrh of the stomach affecting its nerve supply, or through emphysema, bronchial catarrh, caseous bronchial glands, &c., any of which cause chronic irritation of the bronchial nerves, or through diseases of the ovaries, uterus, vagina, prostate, bladder, penis, (at times the glans,) any of which may establish nerve irritation. All these various affections may produce asthma. (Asthma: its nature and treatment. B r ti g e 1 m an n.) Asthma may occur as a neurosis pure and simple, but it is much more frequently observed in connection with congestion and catarrh of the respiratory mucosa. The nerve which is generally assumed to be implicated in the production of spasm is the vagus. However, the sympathetic appears to me to be more likely, for although we may not have sufficient grounds for this, still from analogous distribution of the sympathetic to un- striated muscle there is nothing strange in inferring the bronchial muscular fibres to be similarly supplied. It might, therefore, be held that there is but one form of asthma, namely, that which arises through nerve influence. But for practical reasons it is better to classify the vai'ious forms of asthma according to the seat of irritation. Briigel- mann makes the following division :— (a) Nasal asthma. (/;) Pharyngo-laryngeal asthma. (c) Bronchial asthma. (d) Toxic asthma. (e) Neurasthenic asthma. Under neurasthenic asthma all those forms are included that do not fall under the other divisions. He would therefore include those cases about which I intend to say a few words, namely, asthma dependent upon sexual affections. These are not