216 ZIEMSSEN ON SYPHILIS OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM. ounces with sp. gr. 1002—1005. The ouly signs of syphilis -were an old scar on the frffinura and swelling of the cervical glands. After attempts with various remedies had been made in vain, iodide of potassium was given, and with this there was so manifest an improvement in the principal symptoms in the course of a. week that, by way of clearing up the question, the administration of the iodide was then stopped. Immediately the headache, giddiness, polyuria, and fever returned. The diagnosis having been established by this experiment, the iodide was resumed along with mercuric inunction. The striking results of specific treatment on the polyuria and fever are very well brought out by means of diagrams in the article by v. Hosslin referred to. Four weeks after the antisyphilitic treatment was begun, patient was able to leave cured. As he was subsequently employed as an attendant in the hospital we were in a position to assure ourselves for a year afterwards that the recovery was permanent. Three years later, we have found on recent inquiry, he died of tuberculosis, unfortunately without a post-mortem. In regard to the localisation of the intracephalic changes in this case we must—taking account of the giddiness, the stagger- ing gait, &c.—place the vascular lesion in the basilar and superior cerebellar arteries, as these symptoms point to affection of the pons, medulla, and cerebellum. A similar case, affecting a man about 40 years of age, came to a post-mortem lately, after having been under our observation for 2 years. In him also an attack of syphilis some years before had been followed by fainting and epileptiform attacks, difficulty in swallowing and breathing, staggering gait, at first with involuntary movement backwards and to the left side, and, to begin with, mental disturbance in the form of maniacal attacks, &c. The mental derangement disappeared under the use of iodide of potash, and the other symptoms improved, but only temporarily. Increasing motor weakness in the loAver extremities made walking more and more difficult; the speech became harder to understand and the breathing more troublesome. Death resulted from pleurisy. The post-mortem, besides demonstrating the pleural effusion and considerable cardiac hypertrophy, showed the walls of all the arteries at the base of the brain greatly thickened, stiff, and gaping, the pons and medulla fallen in and soft. The microscopic examination, after the parts had been completely hardened, un- fortunately miscarried. If cases like those of brain syphilis, setting in with definite localising symptoms, can present difficulties in the way of a diagnosis, and can frequently be only rightly interpreted by the