/ 1^ iTHE HUNTEEIAN OEATION Feb. U, 1881THE HUNTEEIAN OEATION DELIVEEBD AT THE ROYAL COLLEGE OE SURGEONS OF ENGLAND On the 14th February 1881 BY LUTHER HOLDEN EX-PRESniBNT OF THB ROYAL COLLEGE OF SOTtOEONS OP ENSLANT ; MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL AND OP THE COUKT OF EXAMINERS ; CONSULTINS SURGEON TO SAINT BARTHOLOMEW'S AND THB FOUNDLING HOSPITALS LONDON A. CHURCHILL, NEW BURLINGTON STREET 1881 SjAU fiyhls reserved]GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARYTHE HUNTEEIAN OEATION. Mr. President, My Lords, and Gentlemen,— " Let us now praise famous men and our fathers that begat us." I can find no better than these venerable words wherewith to invite you to welcome the theme which brings us together here to-day ; for, within these walls, nay, in any place on the earth where men of our profession are met, what man is famous if John Hunter be not famous ? or, who but himself can be called the father of us English surgeons? His fame is fixed too high for us ever to grow careless or weary of our theme ; we do but .honour to ourselves in thus bearing witness before the world that we honour him; and that we are all, however imworthy the best of us may seem to' rank with him, his loyal disciples in self-devotion and the pursuit of truth. Some natures, it is true, are disheartened by the contemplation of the great achievements of geniusO THE HUNTERIAN OEATION. wliicli map out the history of our race : and, here and there, an indolent man may be found, who has buried his one talent because it was not ten. Though this temper of mind is, happily, rare in our profession, which daily brings us face to face with the painful aspects and emergencies of real hfe, stiU it is best that we should always keep before us these brilhant examples of successful genius. Without them, how self-satisfied might we not become in the possession of our small attainments! how remiss in their exercise! To the striving and earnest man they are full of encourage- ment; not only do they urge him on the path of common duty, but they raise him, as it were, on an eminence from which he may overlook the past, and by seeing the results of the aspirations of his pre- decessors, assure himself of the reasonableness of his own. No wonder, then, if the nobler side of our nature is moved to love and gratitude at the very mention of a name like that of John Hunter. No wonder, if every incident of his life is still rich with interest for us. No wonder, that the plodding historian finds his laboiu: grow lighter and his narrative become more picturesque when Hunter crosses the stage. No wonder that, as English sailors are proud of Nelson, English soldiers of Wellington, English poets of Shakespeare, English physicians of Harvey, so English surgeons are proud of Hunter. No wonder that it is held an honour to stand where I stand to-day, to praise " the famous man, the father that begat us." We cannot trace genius to its source, nor accountTHE IIUNTEEIAN ORATION. 7 for its appearing. It is chiefly because of ,tliis mystery that we linger so long around the accidents which attend it, and that the study of them has such an undefinable attraction, and so surely awakens our highest sympathies. In such a spirit the hfe of Hunter must often have been studied, and I shall therefore claim from you some recognition of my especial attachment to my theme if, as the result of it, I can contribute a new item of information towards that part of his history which is the most obscure. We are told, Sir, by John Hunter's biographers, most of whom seem to have copied from each other an unpardonable inaccuracy, that John Hunter, the father, died when his son John was but ten years old,^ and that before and after that time, up to the date of his coming to London, he led a completely idle life, only broken into by a short and unsuccessful apprenticeship to a cabinet-maker in Glasgow, who had married Ms sister and to whom he was sent for the purpose of helping him out of some embarrassment in his trade. His father was, we know, witliin two years of four score when he died ; and the partiality, which he must naturally have felt in his dechning years for the high- spirited son of his old age, is represented as the cause of his having dealt too leniently with him, to the neg- lect of his real interests. The outlines of the picture are easily sketched: up to ten years the darling of a decrepit father, after ten the pet of a widowed mother, ' For notes see end of book.8 THE HUNTERIA.N ORATION. spoilt, humoured, encouraged in idleness, unchecked, untrained, uneducated; such, I say, are the outhnes' leaving a blank to be filled in according to the fancy of the biographers, who have rather dwelt upon this extraordinary contrast between the boy and the man —a contrast so complete and unintelhgible that, if " the boy is father of the man," it requires a miracle to interpret it; and, in the miracle, hes some of the charm of their story. Thus one orator writes " He seems to have led the idle life of a wayward, '■'■petted, boy until twenty years of age" ^ Another depicts him as having " to twenty years of age, passed a life of " idleness, dissipation, and amusement, with no " definite object, no settled employment—his highest '■'■occupation that of a cabinet-maker, and his " education entirely neglected, threatening to destroy " all stability of character and all capacity for " sustained exertion^ ^ And a similar account is the textus receptus on the Continent, Thus Fischer, in his " Chirurgie vor 100 Jahren," says " Hunter was destined by his father to be a " ship's carpenter, and in his twentieth year, when " he cayne to his brother in London, he could scarcely " read and write." * Again, one of the latest and the most eloquent of9 THE HUNTEEIAN ORATION. the Hunterian orators has thus expressed the same story:— " In the first twenty years of his life he appears '-'to have had no inclination to science or to the " arts that minister to it, or indeed to any intellectual " pursuit. Had he succeeded in helping his brother- " in-law, who was a bankrupt cabinet-maker, cabinet- " making might have been the business of his life. " Happily he failed; and then after two years more " idleness, what was to be done f"^ Well, we all know what John Hunter did. He came to London to work under his brother William at anatomy : and the true history of the man, as he was known to his contemporaries, begins with the famous story of his dissection of the muscles of the arm, wherein he so satisfied Dr. William, at the very first outset, with his skill and proficiency, that he received at once the promise of his unhmited patronage, and in the very next year was engaged by him to prepare anatomical subjects for the pubhc lectures, and to give instruction to the pupils. It is not necessary to point out to you, gentlemen, the significance of this fact, nor to remind you that it was not only the professional reputation of William Hunter, but even the advancement of anatomy in England, that was made over to John Hunter without hesitation. Now when, in order that I might not be wanting in due pains, however much I might fail in ability,THE HUNTERIAN ORATIOX, 10 to perform worthily the honourable task which the Council has intrusted to me—when I came to study afresh the life of John Hunter and read these accounts of his early years, I paused before believing them. They seemed for so many reasons improbable that I felt convinced that this first period of his Hfe had not been sufficiently investigated. Is it probable, I said to myself, that a manlike John Hunter, who (as my last quoted authority has well put it) " amused himself with what idle men would call hard work," would pass the first twenty years of his life in sheer idleness ? Is it probable, that the hand whose carpentry was too clumsy for the Scotch, could command, without practice, such skill in dissection as to satisfy the exact- ing accuracy of the anatomist whose ambition it was to teach the world ? Is it probable, again, that this wayward petted youth, who, they tell us, was "in- clined to idleness and dissipation," and whose man- ners certainly cannot have been his recommendation, would have been sent by his parent to help a brother- in-law out of the difficulties of a failing trade ? Is it likely, I said, that he, being the John Hunter whom we know, would have failed at cabinet-making, if he had really ever set his hand to such a craft ? Or, lastlj'', is it likely that the keen intellect, " whose only pleasure " was thought," would have loitered in idleness at the door of that University whence his brother had so lately issued equipped for life, and not stirred himself to make some trial of its teaching ? Could he stand' heedless by without any attempt to find out whether the professors of human knowledge could not solve11 THE HUNTEEIAN QEATION. some of the doubts and questions wMch must then have been engaging his young mind ? Sir, I am not sceptical by nature, and perhaps, if I had not been called upon to set my seal to it, I might not have questioned this version of the matter at all. But the more I considered it, the more my doubts increased, and I determined to examine afresh all our sources of information. I soon discovered an error in the dates. I found that John Hunter was not, as is commonly supposed, about ten years old, but nearly fourteen, when his father died. And this fact has a signal value, for it leads to the almost certain inference that John was educated at the same school as his brothers, and that he was brought under the in- fluence of proper training during those most impor- tant years of a boy's life. That this is the true version can hardly be doubted. Indeed, it is difficult to account for the origin of the opposite statement; for in Simmons's " Life of WiUiam Hunter," we may read that beautifid letter ^ which the father wrote in the summer of 1741, almost within three months of his death—a letter which has been so often .quoted with admiration. This letter bears witness, not only to the date of the writer's death, but to another most important fact, namely, that he maintained, to the very end of his hfe, a clear and sound judgment, as well as the tenderest and wisest interest in the welfare of his children. In short, the letter proves that, of all fathers in the world to have neglected a son, this father would have been the very last.12 THE HUNTERIAN ORATIOX. So far, then, I satisfied my doubts about his school- ing. John had, in all probability, the same schooling as his brothers William and James, and the same moral training. Now let us see about the cabinet-making. The only evidence that I can find in favour of his ever having turned his hand to carpentry is the chair, which you all know so well as "John Hunter's chair," in which he certainly used to sit, which he is said to have made himself, and which, for aught I know, he did make. But the question whether he was ever really apprenticed to his brother-in-law is quite a different matter. The only ascertained fact is that in 1745, being seventeen years old,^ he went to Glasgow, and, once at Glasgow, where did I expect to find him ? Not in the cabinet-maker's workshop, but at the University. I wrote therefore to the clerk of the Senate, and requested him to send me the entry of John Hunter's name, if such an entry there was, in the album of the year 1745. I was not surprised to receive from the clerk a copy of an entry which testifies that John Hunter did matriculate at the University in that year. I will, with your permis- sion, Sir, read the words of the form :— " Nov. 1745. "Nomina discipulorum classis quintse (Nat. Phil.) " qui hoc anno academiam intrarunt. " Joannes Hunter filius Johannis Hunter (Natu " secundus) mercatoris quondam Glasgoviensis." From this document it is evident that he lost no time13 THE IIUNTERTAN ORATION. in entering his name as a student for the course of Natural Philosophy. You will observe, Sir, that in this entry John Hunter is called " natu secundus." Now we know that he was not the second but the tenth child of his parents.^ It may, therefore, be objected that this entry does not refer to our John Hunter at all. But the words " natu secundus" may be accounted for in two ways: they may mean either that John was the second surviving son, which he was at that date, James having died two years before ; or they may refer to the recorded fact that John Hunter had had an elder brother of the same name, and may be interpreted as indicating, not that he was the second son, but the second son who bore the name of John in the family. The entry on the books does not imply any examination for matriculation, so that nothing is abso- lutely proved by it concerning the student's previous training. Nor is the fact that it is made for the natural philosophy school of particular importance. It was the usual custom for students in those days, whatever lectures they might propose to attend, to enter their names for one course only.^ But we may conclude that this course would generally be the one which they considered of most value to them. The entry does not define, much less confine, Hunter's cur- riculum of study; it simply declares his predilections just in the very direction which we should have anti- cipated. There are yet other considerations which throw light on Hunter's career at this time. Dr. Cullen was14 THE flUNTERTAN ORATIOX. then at Glasgow}' He had gone there the year before, and was lecturing on medicine at the University. It is scarcely necessary to remind yon, Sir, of the close intimacy which existed between Culleu and William Hunter. We know that it was to Cullen that Wilham Hunter owed his attachment to medical science.ii We know that Cullen had been for years in confidential correspondence with the Hunter family. Considering this relationship, it does seem to me that Dr. Cullen's appomtment at the University in 1744 was a much more likely event to have determined John's residence at Glasgow in 1745 than any diffi- culties which his brother-in-law may have fallen into with his cabinet-making. Sir, I think it difficult for anyone to resist the conclusion that John Hunter went to Glasgow to prosecute his studies under the eye of Dr. Cullen, it may be even at his invitation ; nay, possibly, that at his advice he entered for the natural history coiu-sej and also attended liis professorial lectures. I find, moreover, tliat there was a professor of anatomy at the University, and that anatomical lectures had been given there for the last three years.^^ gQ ^y^^^ suming, as I think we may do, that he received friendly advice and occasional private tuition from Dr. Cullen, John Hunter was not so badly provided for. If any of the letters which must have passed at this date between Cullen and William Hunter had been preserved,, the correctness of my inferences would be proved or disproved at once. But unfortunately I have found none. The earliest is from Cullen to15 THE IIUXTERIAN ORATION. William Hunter, dated July 12, 1751 (that is, when John had been nearly three years in London). Cullen writes " Your mother says nothing about ' Johnnie's' " coming down ; but I know it would have pleased " her much if he had." Now, 1 think it extremely unlikely that Cullen would have spoken so familiarly of Hunter, when he was in his twenty-foiu-th year, and no longer a boy, but a man of recognised abilities and position, unless he had had a personal, not to say an intimate, acquaint- ance with him at an earlier date. At any rate, as far as this letter goes, it supports my argument, and one cannot expect an allusion of this nature to be more conclusive in its evidence. But the references to John are lamentably few. Ten years later we find that Wilham Hunter, writing to Cullen, mentions that John was going as first surgeon in the expedition against Belleisle, and he adds " He will, I am sure, be glad of any oppor- " tunity of showing his regard for you." And in 1778 Cullen writes to Wilham Hunter " Please tell your brother John, tho' I do not " write to him, as my sons say I ought, I am not " the less sensible of what I owe to liim. I would " have you and him both believe that I am most " affectionately yours, &c." This is not explicit, but, being in general terms, it probably refers to a general obligation, and points to16 THE IIUNTEllIAN ORATIOX. a time when there had been great intimacy between them ; and if it says as much as this, it says much more, especially when read by the light of the affec- tionate language of the previous letter. I have now, gentlemen, put before you all the evi- dence I have in support of my opinion. I have told you what led me to seek it; and the conclusions which I have drawn are so irresistible that you would be wearied by any recapitulation. The pictiure, indeed, is not yet filled up; but we have now different outlines from those with which we have hitherto been familiar. Not that I wish to assert, or to seem to assert, that Hunter ever took even kindly to the literae hu- maniores; I only deprecate the exaggeration and mis- representation which has taken the place of history. The error seems to have arisen from the carelessness and inaccuracy, which is part of the disgrace of his executor, from whose biographical memoir of him it was copied by Drewry Ottley and thence perpetuated through most of the subsequent " Lives," with the addition of a few fanciful comments. By Hunter's contemporaries I should suppose that his school and University education was known, or taken for granted, and that it was never noticed or referred to because it happened to have been un- attended with any distinction. From its not being mentioned it was then unwarrantably assumed that it had never existed ; and I have not wished to do more than bring it fairly forward. Having done so, I am willing to leave the subject ; for, however much we may long to know the mental history of the17 THE HUNTERIAN ORATION. boy whose manhood was so wonderful,—whether it was an early tendency, accidentally held back and thwarted for a time, and then suddenly let loose, with all its originahty favom-ed by its never having been caught and netted in a systematic teaching, or the tardy development of a rare mind that grew silently to greatness in the shadow of its own strength —be this as it may, we must admit that the activity and practical hfe of Hunter began with his settling in London, and that the last forty-four years of his hfe are the real and worthy subject of our considera- tion at the Eoyal College of Surgeons of England. And there is one division of this period which I, as a practical anatomist, am especially disposed to make. To many it may seem an arbitrary one; but I hope that my view of it will, in your opinion, be justi- fied by the considerations with which I shall support it. I am inclined, then, to distinguish in John Hunter the human anatomist from the comparative anatomist, and to say that we have in him an admirable example' of the method of the two studies, and of the manner in which they should both be pursued for the advance- ment of medical science. The term " comparative anatomy," strictly taken mcludes human anatomy, and if human anatomy has become a science on its own account, this is due to the fact that, when the anatomist investigates his own body, the importance of the subject and the interest of his inquiries make this study paramount; and were ,t not for the unquestioned pre-eminence of man,' B18 THE HUNTERIAN ORATIOX. and the habit which he naturally has of considering himself the centre of the universe, this might in the language of science be called an accident. For, in all science, it is the rule to proceed from the simpler to the more elaborate phenomena ; but in comparative anatomy the reverse is the case :—we be- gin with man, the most complex, and proceed down- wards to the simpler forms of life. The first comparative anatomist whose writings we have—Aristotle—set this example, and gave his reason for it. " Just as," he says, " in examining coins, each " one takes as his standard that coin which he knows " best, so it is with everything else. But man is, of " course, the best known to us of all the animals." Therefore he begins his work with a description of the parts of man. Now Aristotle, with all his anatomical errors, made a splendid beginning, and his enormous genius—^which, considering the field of his labours, towers over the average stature of genius like the giant Brien^^ from his glass case over his astonished visitors—his enormous genius, I say, so dazzled the men who came after Mm, that, instead of pursuing his investigations, they even worshipped his errors. And his anatomy was not in a state to be thus enshrined, far from it. If he did dissect human bodies, yet his opportunities of doing so were few, and he was, consequently, driven to an expedient which became the source of many mistakes. I will quote his own words. He says, after speak- ing of the external anatomy of man:19 THE HUNTERIAN ORATION. " The parts then of man which have to do with " the outward surface have been arranged in this " way, as described, and they have been distin- " guished by names, and are best known on " account of our familiarity with them. But " with the mternal parts it is just the opposite; "those of man are mostly unknown: so that, " in order to investigate them, we must refer them " to the parts of the other animals, whose nature " man's resembles." ^® In this traditional anatomy, the anatomy of Galen and his school, and of all anatomists who preceded the Eenaissance, as well as of many who lived to see the sciences reviving and revived, comparative anatomy actually stood in the way of human anatomy so as to obstruct it. Human bodies were so difficult to prociu-e for dissection, and the study of them, conse- quently, was so rare, that the necessary observations were, as Aristotle said, supplemented from the dissec- tion and investigation of the corresponding organs of the lower animals. The anatomical figure of a man, if it existed in the imagination of the physician of those times, was a moDster, made up, one may al- most venture to say, out of various animals, based upon man, no doubt, and covered with his skin, but patched within with strange parts, one part of a sheep another of a monkey, another of a dog, and so on. In the present state of knowledge it is difficult to admit that this was better than nothing Per haps It was. But it is very like that little knowledge B 2THE IIUXTERIAX OTJATIOX. 20 whicli is a dangerous thing; and I will give a few •examples of the errors which it led to, the hindrance which they caused, and the history of their overthrow. At the beginning of the sixteenth century, much erroneous doctrine was held concerning the muscles of the eye. Vesalius, for instance, maintained the existence of the " retractor oculi" muscle in man.^° And when Fallo- pius (who, being a later, had become a more "accurate anatomist) demonstrated that this muscle existed only in some quadrupeds,^^ yet Vesalius still persisted in his opinion, and attributed the fact of Pallopius not finding the muscle to the supposed extreme emaciation of the human bodies which he had examined.^^ On the other hand, Sylvius had to defend Galen's sternum of seven bones against the assault of Vesalius, who demonstrated that there were but three. In the discussion that ensued, Sylvius had to admit the fact, but he was undaunted, and rephed that, however men might be made in then- time, it was well known that in the time of Galen they had more bones in their sternum. Again, Vesalius corrected Galen's description of the omentum which had been pictured from the dissection of the lower animals ; '^^^ and he set right the anatomy of the pylorus which Galen had borrowed from the dog;^^ and the size and relations of the cjecum which had been introduced from the carnivorous animals.^s But more important still, there is a possibility that it was some knowledge of the construction of the heart in reptiles which supported the theory of the porosity " of the inter-ventricular septum. This doc-THE HUNTERIAN ORATION. 21 trine was, probably, most mischievous in retarding the discovery of the circulation of the blood. Other- wise the description of the lesser circulation, so com- pletely given by Servetus in his work entitled, " Chris- tianismi Eestitutio," must, one would think, have led sooner to the discovery of the greater. A story ^vhich illustrates exactly the relations of human and comparative anatomy at that time is re- lated of the Margrave of Baden Durlach. The physicians in attendance on this prince disputed among themselves as to the position of his heart in his thorax, one of them contending with Galen that it lay in the middle, the rest being bold enough to affirm that it was on his left side. As this unfortunate doubt assumed the aspect of a serious practical difficulty, when it came to determiniag the precise spot on which should be applied the plaster which was destined to relieve the sufferings of the Margrave, it was decided to appeal to nature. A pig was therefore brought into the royal chamber, and opened in the presence of the sick man. The exact posi- tion of the heart was shown to him : if in a pig, there- fore in a prince. His highness gave way before this argument, and the plaster was placed accordingly, while the physician, who still had the temerity to de- fend himself by drawing an anatomical distinction between man and pig, was dismissed from the court.^^ This then was the state of anatomy in Europe which Vesalius and Fallopius and the men of their time, were engaged in reforming. Comparative anatomy had been used to supplement human anatomy ; and it was now to be laid aside, till it could be established'^^ THE HUNTERIAN ORATION. afresh in its proper position. For the first time in the history of the world, as we know it, human anatomy was studied scientifically, accurately, and minutely for Itself and in itself. The new science was founded on the laborious investigation of nature, and firmly estabhshed on the basis on which it must ever remain. And this reformation, which was one of the most fruitful works of the Eenaissance, was established by the foundation of schools of anatomy, where the new discoveries were taught, and the new methods pur- sued. Erom that time to the present, all has been continuous progress. England had, indeed, lagged much behind in these matters. Not that our country was lacking in great men: on the contrary, it would be impossible to write the history of anatomy without giving proud promi- nence to British names ; but these men were all taught abroad. The new era began in 1720, when Monro estabhshed the first school of anatomy in Great Britain at Edinburgh, and there was no school, worthy of the name, in England, before Wilham Hunter, no doubt in emulation of his old master Monro, founded his school in London, We may still see the spacious build- ing in Great Windmill Street, which contained William Hunter's famous Museum, and in which he gave the opportunity to Enghsh physicians of learning anatomy, for the first time, in their own country. Now if I contend that Wilham Hunter was, in a mea- sure, to England what Vesahus and the other great men who estabhshed the study of anatomy were, to Europe— if I say this, I need only point to the results of his schoolTHE HUNTERIAN ORATION. 23 to prove my assertion. And not only did he establish the study of anatomy in England, but he was fully aware of the importance of the task which he set himself; and his lofty ambition was fed and supported by a not less lofty vanity.'^^ It was the main object of his hfe to found a school in England which would make our country independent of European schools, and this object he achieved with singular success. Such then was the man to whom, in the midst of his laboiu-s, his younger brother, John, came in September 1748. And he came to learn human anatomy. I cannot doubt he had already some practical knowledge of it when he came, else how can we fancy him, as a first year's student, entrusted with the responsibility not only of making the most of the " subject," but of answering all the questions with which intelligent pupils are still wont to puzzle their anatomical tutors ? Instead of " puzzle," I had almost said " teach." For I know from my own experience, that demonstrators may sometimes be, with regard to their pupils, in the position of learners rather than teachers. Upon such a matter as this I am reluctant to make any exaggerated statement, or to utter words that may grate on any ears. But I feel it incumbent upon me to protest, as strongly as possible, against the practice of short appointments and frequent changes in the stafi" of junior teachers, which has lately become the fashion in many of our schools. The shortened period is, in my opinion, far too short to allow the demonstrator even to estimate the difficulty of his task, much moreHUNTERIAN ORATION. to Obtain a mastery of his subject, and of the art of teaching it. The inexperienced Demonstrator, new to his work, IS too apt to be over-zealous in his office The' very novelty of his position prompts him to be too ready to relieve the students in their dissections ; and he is even glad of the opportunity of doing for them the work which should be done by them—and must be done by them, if they are to master their subject. And the effect of all this is seen, too plainly, in the sad results of our examinations, both primary and pass —results which I, for one, should hesitate to impute entirely to the severity of the examiners or to the remissness of the students. How often, when we place the beautiful prepara- tions of the Museum before the candidates, do they gaze at them as at objects imported from another world, the like of which they had never so much as dreamt of! How often do we find that it is the simplest and most elementary questions that they are most unable to answer ! And where does the blame lie ? Let us look a little more closely to our teaching. This I think we may fairly regard with suspicion. The average mind is so keenly ahve to subjects in which it is interested, that it is hard to beheve the results which we see, are the best attainable by teachers who have awakened the interest of their pupils as it might be awakened ; for, surely, as man is the crown of the visible creation, the study of man may be made to excite more wonder, reveal more beauty, and convey more instruction than almost any other subject whatever.25 THE HUNTEEIAN ORATION. And the study of anatomy and physiology cannot but do all this in the hands of an able and earnest teacher, who aims at something higher than a mere loading the memory with what are justly called dull and dry facts. Such a teacher will make his pupil feel at ease in a maze of detail in which he is apt to be bewildered ; he will have a clue ready at every turn, and not depend on one way only for threading the difficulties, from which way he dare not trn-n, either to right or left, lest he should himself be lost; he will infuse hfe into the dead body, connect function with structure, and never omit to point out the useful ap- plication of each item of knowledge. Now Hunter's writings teem with examples which show what an impressive teacher he was, how supreme was his skill in turning all his knowledge to account, and with what happy enthusiasm he started others on the road to gain knowledge for themselves. To take a single instance, I would especially point to his de- scription of the organs of mastication and digestion. I commend this to the study of everyone who wishes to be a learner or a teacher of anatomy. For myself, I can only say that, when I first read it, it filled me with astonishment. Would to Heaven, I said, that we had the whole of anatomy described in this powerful way ! We should then hear fewer com- plaints of its " dryness and dulness." The language is so lucid, so terse, and withal so pictorial. There is an interest, too, and charm in every detail, and with each fact is given some illustration, with all the text its proper and full context.THE HUNTERIAN ORATION. 26 We cannot, indeed, be expected to bring to any anatomical subject the context which Hunter's well- stored mind enabled him to bring. What a mind his was, how full of light ready at any moment to be brought to bear upon the subject in hand, we may imagine, when we read that he was in the habit of neglecting to catalogue the specimens which he added to his vast museum, and that he depended, entirely and without misgiving, on his memory for all the particulars relating to them. This is a most astound- ing fact; and it shows that all the circumstances connected with any subject which had once interested him, were always afterwards present to his mind, or could at least be summoned at a moment's notice; and summoned, not as so many things accounted for and done with, but with all their various bearings and unsatisfied relations ready for re-adjustment and awaiting their due application. It seems, indeed, incredible, and with such a gift we may imagine what a wonderful teacher he must have been ! ^° Hunter spent twelve years chieJfly in teaching— in other words, in learning—human anatomy in his brother's school. In those years he had been an acute observer and most laborious collector of facts. He then passed finally to comparative anatomy. And the motive which led him to comparative anatomy was not a wish to classify or even to study the animal kingdom for its own sake. He was, above all things, surgeon, then compai'ative anatomist and phy- siologist, and it was his longing to found physiology on a sound basis, and to connect pathology with physio-THE HUNTERIAN OEATION. 27 logy, that led him to his goal. He had had predecessors and teachers in anatomy, but in physiology he planned and struck out a highway of his own. "Eeason tells us, if my authority carries " any weight in this matter, that disease, however " hostile its causes may be to the human body, is "nothing else than Nature exerting all her " strength in an effort to destroy morbific material, " in order to save the sick man." Now these are not Hunter's words. They are the first words of Sydenham in his book on Acute Diseases. They are Sydenham's theory of pathology, written in 1676—nearly a hundred years before Hunter's time. He separates decisively the causes of disease from the symptoms of disease, and compares the symptoms to healthy physiological processes. We read and admire. It is a theory which Hunter would have accepted, indeed he might have written the very words. It is the result which he arrived at independently, which we all now accept, and which we may take for the very basis of our practice. As far, then, as the general theory of disease went, Hunter was not original. But he was original in the manner which is more useful to mankind. He demonstrated absolutely the truth of Sydenham's view of disease, especially with regard to inflammation, and, by his observation and experiment, placed the whole matter beyond the field of theory. Nor was the view which his lofty intellect thus actually established at all commonly received in his day. We find very good senseTHE HUNTERIAN ORATION. 28 in Sydenham ; but wherever else we look in the century which intervened between our two great countrymen, we find nothing but unintelligible conftision. It was in vain that Bacon had raised his voice to herald the age of experimental science; the advice, which he gave specially to physicians, fell on deaf ears. There never was a time when there were so many or such various theories of life and disease. Even the new discoveries gained by the experimental method seemed to be used chiefly as bases for new theories of fantastic imagina- tion. Harvey's discovery of the circulation of the blood was, I believe, especially fertile in mathematical theories of vital phenomena. And then the chemists were very busy and ingenious. I do not know much about the various systems of these theorists and their origins and histories. I know more of the points, at least, in which they agree than of the characteristics by which they differ; and they all agree in this—that they are all unintelHgible and all forgotten. Far be it from me to wish to introduce them into this theatre! Let their names perish with them ! And so said Hunter, who found them all flourish- ing and quarrelHng. He brushed them all aside, and set about investigating nature for himself. In physio- logy he saw the road to a true pathology, and physiology meant comparative physiology and experi- ment, and therefore comparative anatomy. . . . " For ten years," says Fischer of Hannover, "Hunter dissected only human subjects, and " then began with animals, for he found that only " comparative anatomy could give any satisfac-THE IIUNTRUIAN ORATION. 29 " tory solution of the many complicated problems " before him. And in his dissections of animals " he never lost sight of the proper application of " his discoveries to human anatomy, and always " sought after general laws." From animals he went to plants, and from plants to crystals:— " In short, his aim was to unite scientifically " all the departments of nature, in order that he " might then be able to proceed (in his method) " from the simplest up to the most complicated " forms. He assumed that Nature still main- " tained her regularity, even where she seemed " most to depart from it; and that, under certain " circumstances, even the exception to her law is " a part of her law." Now this is what I call the true medical use of comparative anatomy, and I have great pleasure in quoting this testimony from a foreign writer, whom I here thank in the name of us all for his extremely just and complimentary treatment of English surgery. There is no more true and faithful sketch of John Hunter than that which Fischer gives in his book, and I know of no history of surgery which more decisively estimates the claims of our countrymen at their proper value.^* But the opinion of Fischer as to the pre-eminence of John Hunter over all other European surgeons, ancient or modern, is now commonly shared andTHE HUNTERIAN ORATION, 30 generously conceded both in France and Germany Thiis Professor Billroth, in a letter to me, does not hesitate to speak of Hunter as " one of the greatest men the Enghsh nation has " produced .... who by his work on ' Inflam- " mation and Gunshot Wounds' laid the corner- " stones of modern English and German surgery." ^5 And elsewhere Billroth has written : " From the time of Hunter to the present "day, Enghsh surgery has about it something " noble. In the scientific, as well as in the prac- " tical part of siu-gery, and of medicine generally, " England is now more advanced than any other " country." Again, when the complete translation of Hunter's works first came out in Paris, M. Eoyer-Collard spoke of it as a great scientific event, and congratulated his countrymen on being able to study at leisure " one of the most beautiful monuments raised in " modern times by the genius of science."3'' And it was a great mission of Hunter's to found " pathology" on comparative physiology; to rescue disease from the grasp of quacks, fanatics, and system- mongers ; and to restore it to the rank where Sydenham would have placed it—beside the beneficent regulations of nature which govern the body in health. And he must read history amiss who does not set the highest value on such work.^^ I have referred to Hunter's books to illustrate hisTHE HUNTERIAN ORATION. 31 ability as a human anatomist. To show him as a com- parative anatomist we must go into his Museum. If he could enter it himself after an absence from the earth of eighty seven years, I do not know whether he would be more pleased at finding it so little altered, or, at its having been so much enlarged. It is true that one section—that of the stuffed birds—has disappeared altogether. (I am indebted to our highly-valued curator, Professor Elower, for this and for other information con- cerning the state of the Museum.) It is true that some sections have been so much enlarged that he would scarcely recognise them. There are three thousand specimens of skulls, for instance, in the place of his fifty, and his pathological specimens have been more than doubled. But in the series of comparative physiology, on which he bestowed the most pains, he would see the very materials, which he gathered with his own hands to lay the broad foundations of his new science, still in the same order in which he had placed them; he would see his own arrangement rigidly adhered to in every detail, and his own specimens still outnumbering the additions of a century. Considering the immense progress wliich has been made in these sciences since the time of his death, the changes of systems which have taken place, and the vast materials which research is always contributing to natural history—this would be a great triumph for him, and a proud verification of his own blunt pre- diction :— " When this John Hunter is gone, you will not " easily get another."32 THE HUNTERIAN ORATION'. But most of all would he delight in the skeleton of the great whale. Like Aristotle before him, he took especial interest in huge marine animals; and as Aristotle distinguished himself by describing the carti- laginous fishes as a special genus, so Hunter left a magnificent monograph " On the Structure and (Eco- "nomy of Whales." In his anxiety to procure speci- mens, he sent, at his own expense, a surgeon on a voyage to Greenland, providing him with all neces- saries requisite for examining and preserving the more interesting parts, and with instructions for making general observations. But fancy his disappointment when (to use his own words) he " found that the only return he received for his expense was a piece of whale's skin, with some small animals sticking upon it." Fancy his delight, if he could see the monster he had so fruitlessly pursued in life, hanging in chains before the very eyes of his statue. I say, fancy his delight! And for us—who know so well his figure and his features, his manner of life, his manner of speech, his studies, his pleasures, and, alas! his pains and infirmities—for us, it needs but a small efibrt of imagination to see him in his Museum as plainly as if he were walking there in the flesh. So immortal is the personality of Genius ! Sir, I must now discharge a solemn duty, and com- memorate the names of two of our fellow-labourers who have passed away from us since our last anni- versary. Henry Hancock was for thirty-seven years a fellowTHE IIUNTERIAN ORATION. 33 of this College, and seventeen years ago was elected a member of the Council. In 1872 he was our President. He was a true follower of Hunter, an ardent and successful teacher, and did much to improve the Sur- gery of the Foot, which most of us can remember was the subject of his lectures in this theatre, in the years 1865-66. His name will be transmitted to posterity as the originator of an operation for the relief of glau- coma, which consists in the division of the ciliary muscle. His long life was spent in labour and good works ; and we lost in him not only a most able col- league, who, energetic in attack and undaunted by opposition, always took the keenest interest in the affairs of the profession and of this College, but a thoroughly true and honest man, a most genial and amusing com- panion. Multis ille bonis flebilis occidit: Nulli flebilior quam Mibi. George Wm. Callender, one of my own colleagues at St. Bartholomew's, was called away from us in the prime of life, when he was most busy in carrying the Hunterian principles of surgery into their fuller deve- lopment. And I have no hesitation in calling " Anti- septic Surgery " Hunterian ; nor, as far as I know, has any one experienced better results from this method than Callender. His memory has already been honoured by one whose writings will always be held sacred in our profession, and I can add nothing to the eloquent words in which it has been enshrined.^° I propose. Sir, with your permission, to devote the GTHE IIUNTEEIAN ORATION. 34 few remaining moments to a question which has of late divided our society into two opposite camps,—whether we ought or ought not to require from our students a preliminary knowledge of the Classics. Greek and Latin literature — whether the Eoyal College of Siu-geons, or even the Universities, insist on its study or not—will ever be held in the highest estimation. The more completely it should happen to be set aside for a time, the greater would be the force of the inevitable reaction which would bring it again into power. The question about which there is a difference of opinion is plainly this:—Is it or is it not a waste of time for students to spend so many years of their early life in the study of Greek-and Latin, preparatory to enter- ing the profession ? It is a matter of the utmost im- portance to us personally, and I should be sorry to lose this great opportunity of expressing my own convic- tions on the subject. First, therefore, I will ask you. Sir, and all who have taken part of late years in our examinations, whether you have found as a matter of fact, that igno- rance of the classics is compensated for by a knowledge of science, and that the best scholars are the worst anatomists ? And this, I take it, would be the case if the question were merely one of economy of time ; if the hoiurs, which are now said to be wasted in learning classics, were really better spent upon other subjects. But, since it is a matter of experience that those who come before us best prepared in professional subjects are just those who have had the most complete classical35 THE ITUNTERIAN OKATION. training, it is evident that any surrender of this training is designed as an indulgence to the less intelligent and industrious who seek admission within our ranks. The mind must undergo a long training before it is fit to grapple with science, and if we set aside clas- sical education we shall be ignoring the value of the best system of training which exists ; and upon this point I need only refer you to the verdict given by H.M.'s Endowed School Commissioners.^^ And my own experience as a teacher for forty years fully corroborates their judgment. In students who have had a public school training I have found a fuller development of the logical faculty—a more cultivated memory, a greater grasp and power of combination. I have found the task of teaching them so much easier, that I have no hesitation in saying that I can teach such pupils more in two months, than others who have had no like education in six. Bearing this in mind, let us strive to raise rather than lower the standard, by requiring a proof of sound classical training from those who, if they have not had this, have probably had little or no mental train- ing whatever. Above all let us not further hamper our noble profession, which in nine cases out of ten is taken up as a means of gaining a hvelihood, with the stigma of being illiterate, nor subject the youths who are to be the future representatives of English sur- gery to the danger of being looked upon as " symbols " of an inferior education. Let us most earnestly incite them to acquire, at the only time of life when they are likely to acquire it, c 236 THE HUNTERIAN ORATION. some initiation into the thought and life of the grandest period of the world's history ; let us not draw a veil over their eyes which must hide from them the light of that splendid illumination before which all modern thought as well as art must bow ; to the rekindling of which we owe our own brilliant outburst of energy; which is necessary, I am bold to say, to the intelUgent and proper study of our most holy rehgion, and which holds the keys of all that is most ideal and divine in the life of man.NOTES Note 1. 'Life of Hunter,' by Sir Everard Home, prefixed to Hunter's 'Treatise on the Blood, Inflammation, and Gunshot Wounds.' Quarto. 1794. 2. ' Hunterian Oration,' by Sir Wm. Fergusson, 1871, p. 32. 3. 'Hunterian Oration,' by Babington, 1842. 4. ' Chii-urgie vor 100 Jahi-en : historische Studie,' von Dr. Georg Fischer, in Hannover. Leipzig, 1876, p. 285. 5. ' Hunterian Oration,' by Sir James Paget, 1877, p. 2. 6. ' An Account of the Life and Writings of the late William Hunter, M.D., F.K.S.,' by Samuel Foart Simmons, M.D. London, 1833. The letter alluded to in the text as written by John Hunter's father is dated July 28, 1741. The writer died on October 30 following. Therefore John Hxmter, born February 14, 1728, must have been nearly fourteen when his father died. 7. ' Life,' by Sir Everard Home. 8. The following were the names of these ten children in the order of their birth :—John, Elizabeth, Andrew, Janet, James, Agnes, William, Dorothea, Isabella, and John. Of the sons John the eldest died young. • Life of Wm. Hunter,' by Simmons, p. 1. 9. This statement is made on the authority of the ' Life of Wm. Cullen, M.D.,' by John Thompson, M.D., vol. i. p. 2. 10. ' Life of Cullen,' by Thompson, vol. i. p. 21. 11. William Hunter, who had been educated at the University of Glasgow, was intended for the Church ; but, beginning to enter- tain doubts with regard to some of the articles of faith, to which, as a clergyman, it would have been necessary for him to subscribe, he resolved to abandon the atudy of theology. In this state ofTHE HUNTERIAN ORATION. 38 mind, he happened to become acquainted with Dr. Oullen, who was then just established in practice at Hamilton. Dr. Cullen's conversation soon determined him to lay aside all thoughts of the Church, and to devote himself to the profession of physic. His father's consent having been previously obtained, W. Hun- ter, in 1737, went to reside with Dr. Cullen. In the family of this excellent friend and preceptor, he passed nearly three years; and these, as he has been often heard to acknowledge, were the happiest years of his life. See ' Life of Dr. Cullen.' 12. Dr. Eobert Hamilton was Professor of Anatomy and Botany, but gave no lectures on Botany.—' Life of Cullen,' vol. i. p. 2 4. 13. Thompson's ' Life of Cullen, vol. i. p. 540. 14. Thompson's ' Life of Cullen,' vol. i. p. 551. 15. Thompson's ' Life of Cullen,' vol. i. p. 565. 16. 'Life of John Hunter,' by Drewiy Ottley, prefixed to the ' Works of John Hunter,' by James F. Palmer. London, 1837. This Life is certainly the best. Nevertheless, whUe finding fault with other memoirs of John Hunter, and professing to wiite ' a full and faithful account' of him, Ottley does not hesitate to adopt the erroneous story that ' Himter's father died in 1738, . . . and John was thus left, at ten years of age, to the care of a fond and apparently over-indulgent mother,' p. 3. Again further on, at p. 6, he shows a want of accuracy in stating a fact, which, if worth stating, should have been stated correctly; namely, that ' John Hunter was in his twentieth year,' when he wrote to his brother in London to offer his services. Now, J. H. himself states that he came to London in September 1748. Surely, therefore, born in Feb- ruary 1728, he must have been advanced in his twenty-fii-st year. 17. ' Hist. Anim.'i. 6 ed. Bekker :—irpwTov de tU ruv ki-QpiOTrov [-tifjri \i]-iTTtoVj wcT-KEp ycif) ra vo^Lafiara irpug to avrdiQ EKaaroi yvw- pL/jwraToi' ^oKi/.iai^nuiTU', ovrw Ei) mi iv tuTq cIWolq' 6 2' aydpuiwot; rwr l^towv yvujpi^itirarov J//Jt)' £^ twayKrjQ iarLf. 18. The magnificent skeleton of O'Brien, the famous Irish giant, who died in 1783, is nearly eight feet high, and heads the osteological collection in the Hunterian Museum, at the Royal College of Sui-geons, 19. ' Hist. Anim.' i. 16 ed. Bekker :—rh ^tv ovu fxopia ra irpbt: T>)i' t^to iwifdi'et.ai' tovtov rtTuKmi tov Tpoirov, Ka'i KaOairep tXt'j^fli;, Zi(i)v6fiaaTai re fiaXitrra Kcti yvwptfjia Sta r»)i' avvijQuav kariv' rn ^' tiTOf TuvyavTioV fiyi'wffTU yap tfrri fXcWiffTa to rio)' ayOpMKiov, wanNOTES. 39 g£l vpuQ ra TWP aXXojv [idpia C^wr ai'uyovTaQ CKOTrelr, nig t'xEt napa- TcXriaiav rrji' (j>vaiv. 20, ' Est enim, praeter commemoratos oculi musculos, alius adhuc grandis, et undecumque ab illis et eo quern diximus adipe circum- datus, ac solus similem figuram illi quam prioressex simul efforma- bant, constituens. Nam musculus iste paulo anterius, quam sex ilU, k dura quoque membrana, nervum visorium involvente, prin- cipium assumit carneum, quod nervum ilium orbiculatim ambiens, iu prioraque porrectum, instar turbinis tantisper dilatescit, dum musculus posteriorem oculi sedem contingat, illique circuli modo carneus implantetur, non quidem proxime ad nervum visorium, sed ferh ubi oculus hac posteriori sede amplissimus fieri incipit. Quemadmodum vero inter liimc musculum et sex priores adipem repositum dixi, ita etiam inter nervum ipsiim et praesentem mus- culum eo intervallo, quo is a nervo abscedit, adeps colligitur. Mus- culus hie nullam prorsus inscriptionem obtinet, nisi fortassis unam ia iuferiori sede, secvmdum ipsius longitudiaem protensam. Unde etiam miror hunc non unius musculi loco ab Anatomicis enumera- tum fuisse, sed ab aliis duorum, ab aliis trium, quum interim musculum hunc vix obiter omnes descripserint. Ac proinde etiam vereor ipsos non admodum apt^ illius usum expressisse, dum hunc privatim retentionis ocuU in sua sede autorem esse asserunt, nullum praeterea illi usum adscribentes. ' Quum tamen sex priores musculi id munus sibi aptius vindicare possint, quod externa ipsorum superficie, membranae oculi sedem in calvaria exsculptam succingenti, fibris quodammodo connascan- tur, septimum musculum imdique in se occultantes, ac ne calvariam ullibi contingat, arcentes. Quinimo fort^ non deerunt, qui sex musculorum exortum non k membrana nervum investiente, verum ab ilia quae os succingit, pendere contendent, quum interim Septi- mus musculus multis intervallis undequaque ab os succingente membrana distet: quod profectb factum non fuisset, si modb hujus beneficio oculum in sua sede retineri, ac quodammodo ad cerebrum trahi oporteret. Proinde si ipsius naturam accui-ate rimatus fueris, ilium instar tegumenti visorio nervo obduci concedes, et postmodum etiam oculum rectis motibus agere fateberis, prout nimirum has illasve sui corporis fibras contraxerit relaxaveritve.'—Andreae Vesalii ' Opera Omnia Anatomica et Chirurgica cura Hermanni Boerhaave et Bernhardi Siegfried Albini,' lib. ii. cap. xi. p. 197, Lugduni Batavorum, m.dccxxv. 21. 'Omnes qui de musculis oculorum hucusqxie scripsere, aut publice profitentes (quod ego sciam) loquuti sunt in publicis dis-40 THE HUNTERL\N ORATION. sectionibus, male plane illos enumerant. Nam a divino Vesalio incipiam : ipse nobis septem musculos enumeravit, qui quidem bove reperiuntur, quatuor scilicet motibiis rectis, et geminos ' in CU'CU- laribus mservientes; non recte tamen mea sententia, ut sunt in bove collocatos. Septimum addit, qui magnus ad radicem oculi situs est.'—GabrieUs Fallopii 'Observ. Anatom.' p. 711 apud V esalium, 1. o. 22. ' Post boo Septimus k me commemoratur musculus, cujus in homine absentiam in mai'corem potius, et multam flavi adipis copiam insignemque hominis mollitiem in animo meo rejicere soleo, quam quod illo tarn eleganti, et raro musculo bominem vere destitui existimarem.'—A. Vesalii ' Obs. in Gabrielis Fallopii Exa- men,' 1. c. p. 781. 23. ' Adversus Jacobi Sylvii Depulsionum Anatomicarum Calumnias, pro Andrea Vesalio Apologias.'—Renato Henero, Medico Autore. Yenetiis, m.b.lv. p. 83. ' 24. ' Vesalii Opera Omnia,' lib. v. cap. iv. p. 423. 25. Id. ib. cap. iii. p. 418. 26. Id. ib. cap. v. pp. 426-7. 27. ' Christianismi Restitutio : Totius Ecclesite Apostolicie ad sua Limina Vocatio,' auctore Michael Serveto, ab Aragonia, Hispano. 8vo. 1553. In this work, on the Restoration of Christianity, the gi-eat fact in physiology of the transit of the blood from the right to the left bide of the heart through the lungs is first definitively proclaimed to the world. The pilnting of the book led almost immediately to his arrest and prosecution for heresy, at the instigation of Calvin, by the authorities of Vienna. He escaped from prison, however, through the connivance of his friends ; but it was only to fall into the hands of the Reformer of Greneva, at whose instance he was again ai-rested, cast into the felon's dungeon, put upon his trial for life or death, and being condemned to die, he perished at the stake, in the forty-fourth year of his age, and the fifteen hundred and fifty-thii-d of the Christian era.—See ' William Harvey, a History of the Discovery of the Circulation of the Blood,' by R. Willis, M.D. London, 1878. 28. ' Ad hsec Sua Celsitudo (Durlachii Badensis 111* D. Miir- chio) conticuit et aliam quaestionem protulit, percontando, ubi cor suam sedem habeat, respondi "in thoracis medio " : turn S. C. regessit potius inclinare ad regionem sinistram ob pulsum eo loci41 NOTES. magis conspicuum, referebam id contingere, ob sinistrum cordis ventriculum, in quo arteriarum origo, a qiiibus pulsus obveniat, alias teste Galeno (lib. vi. de usu part.) consistere in medio pectore : ad hfec etiam siluit. ' Quod autem quaestionem de situ cordis proposuit, exin nata est occasio. Cum altquando ingenti cordis palpitatione laboraret, duo medici Heidelberga evocati in auxilium, inter cetera remedia ordi- natum epithema cordiale, ibi rixa et contentio cum Medico aulico Durlacensi, quo loci illud esset applicandum, et tum litigium de situ cordis, illis contendentibus in sinistro latere locatum, isto autem in medio situm asserente ; tandem cum neutra pars cedere vellet de concepta opiaione, Medici Heidelbergenses provocabant ad experientiam et anatomiam, cujus medio ista controversia sit dirimenda. Cum autem scrofse viscera interanea, quoad situm, baud dispari modo disposita ac in corpore humano, ipsa fuit mac- tata et in conclave delata, corpore aperto, cum videretur cor incli- nare versus latus tboracis sinistrum, iUi triumphantes de victoria, Medicum aulicum incusantes ignorantise et apud Suam Oelsitudi- nem deferentes quod tarn imperitum alat Medicum, cui incognitus situs cordis. Exin D. Marchio tantam concepit indignationem, ut Medicum aulicum officio motum alio relegavit. Exin etiam apparet, quam inimica res sit aemulatio Medicorum et quam detri- mentosa calumnia.'—Augustini Thoneri' Observationum Medicina- lium baud trivialium Hbri quatuor,' lib. ii. p. 102. TJlmae. M.DCXLix. 4 min. 29. Speaking of the discovery of tbe absorbent system, which, he claims as his own, William Hunter says : ' This discovery gains credit daily, both at home and abroad, to such a degree, that I believe we may now say that it is almost universally adopted ; aijd, if we mistake not, in a proper time, it will be allowed to be the greatest discovery, both in physiology and pathology, that anatomy has suggested since the discovery of the circulation.' Again: ' Since the days of Aristotle there have been only two great inventions in the physiology of our bodies; to wit, the circulation of the blood and the absorbent system.'—' Two Intro- ductory Lectures,' by Wm. Hunter. London, 1784, p. 59. 30. Mr. Cline, bom 1750, one of the Surgeons of St. Thomas's Ho-spital, says in his ' Hunterian Oration,' 1824: 'When only twenty-four years of age, I had the happiness of hearing the first course of lectures which John Hunter delivered. I had been at that time for some years in the profession, and was tolerably wellTHE IIUNTERIAN OEATION. 42 acquainted with the opinions held by the surgeons most distin- guished for their talents then residing in the metropolis; but having heard Mr. Hunter's lectures on the subject of disease, 1 found them so ftir superior to everything I had conceived or heard before, that there seemed no comparison between the gi-eat mind of the man who dehvered them, and aU the individuals, whether ancient or modern, who had gone before him.'—' Life of Sir A. Cooper,' by B. Cooper, vol. i. p. 94. 31. ' Dictat Eatio, si quid ego hie judico, Morbum, quantum- libet ejus causae humano corpori adversentur, nihil esse aliud qu^m Naturae conamen materiae morbificae exterminationem in aegri salutem omni ope molientis.'—Thomae Sydenham ' Opera Omnia,' tom. i. cap. i. ' De morbis acutis in genere.' Londini, M.DCCcxLiv. Ed. G. A. Greenhill, M.D. 32. Fischer, loc. cit. p. 286. 33. Fischer, loc. cit. p. 290. 34. The following is a characteristic quotation from Fischer : 'Mit John Hunter beginnt ein Wendepunkt in der Chiriu-gie. So gross die chirurgischen Fortschritte des 19. Jahrhunderts auch sind, so miissen wir doch, ohne im Geriagsten die Verdienste unserer Zeitgenossen zu schmalern, eingestehen, dass in der Chi- rui-gie keines einzigen Volkes ein so grosses, allumfassendes Genie bis auf den heutigen Tag wiedergeboren ist. J. Hunter gehbrte zu den ausserst seltenen Erscheiuungen, welche niu- in langen Zwischem-aumen auftreten, und war ebenso gross als Chirurg wie als Anatom, Physiolog, Patholog, und Natui-forscher. Die Kraft seines Geistes war eine so ausserordentliche, dass er mit Aristoteles, Harvey und Bichat in gleichem Range steht. "Will man einen Vergleich zwischen englischen xmd franzodischen Zeit- genossen wagen, so stelle man Desault neben Pott, und Bichat neben J. Hunter. Nui* dass jener sich auf den Menschen be- schfiinkte, wahrend Hunter seine Forschungen nicht allein auf die Gesetze der Krankheit bei Menschen und Thieren, sondern iiber den ganzen Umfang der Natur, der organischen und unorgauischen, ausdehnte und alle Formen des Lebens bis zur tiefsten Tiefe zu ergriinden suchte. Das Ziel, welches er stets vor Augen hatte, war die Auffindung der Gesetze des Lebens ; denn nur eine ver- traute Bekanntschaft mit ihnen klare die Krankheitsursachen auf, ohne deren Kenntniss Niemand "Wundai-zt sein kbnne. D.abei bewegte sich sein Geist so frei, dass die grbssten Entwiirfe ihnNOTES. 43 nicbt uberwiiltigen konnten. " Das Denken machte ibm Ver- aniiwen " wie er selbst erklarte.'—Fiscber, loc. cit. p. 285. 35. It will probably interest some of my readers if I give BUl- roth's letter in extemo. Wien : 12.8.80. Alserstrasse 20. Hocbgeebrter Herr College,—Icb verebre Jobn Hunter als einen der grbssten Manner, welcben die engliscbe Nation bervorge- bracbt bat, ,und oft babe icb ibn in meinen Scbriften erwiibnt. Am ausfiibrlicbsten babe icb iiber ibn gescbrieben in meiner ersten Arbeit iiber Wundfieber ('Arcb. f. klin. Cbii-nrgie,' Bd. ii. p. 326). Icb babe dort durcb Citirung seiner Worte nacbgewiesen, dass sicb seit seiner Ai-beit iiber ' Blut, Entziindung und Scbusswunden unsere Anscbauungen iiber "Wundfieber bis 1862, wo die Arbeiten von 0. Weber und mu- erscbienen, durcbaus nicbt geandert baben. Selbst so grosse Manner wie Cooper, Dupuytren, Larrey liessen die Tbeorie Hunter's besteben, dass das "Wundfieber ein Reizfieber sei. Durcb meine spateren Arbeiten wurde die Bahn gebrocben zur bu- moralen Auffassung des "Wundfiebers als einer Febricula septica. Es finden sicb dann aucb in einer kleinen, selten gewordenen Schrift von mir (' Historiscbe Studien iiber die Beurtheilung und Bebandlung der Scbusswunden,' Berlin, 1859, p. 59), folgende "Worte : ' Jobn Hunter ist als der Hauptbegriinder der modernen engHscben und deutschen Cbirurgie anzuseben; er war durcb und durcb ein Genie, von dem Baillie mit Recbt sagt: " Tbere is no subject wbicb be bad considered wbere be bas not added new ligbt." ' Icb balte es fiir das "Wesen der modernen Cbirurgie, dass sie ibre Fortscbritte stets im Zusammenbang mit der Anatomie, Pbysiologie und experimentellen Patbologie macbt, und sicb dadurcb von einem Kunstbandwerk zu eiaer Wissenscbaft erboben bat. Diese Metbode der Arbeit, zumal das Heranzieben des Ex- periments zum Verstandniss patbologiscber Processe, finden wir vov Hunter kaum. Astley Cooper, den icb nacbst Hunter fiir den grossten Cbirurgen Englands balte, hat diesen Weg fortgesetzt. Dann traten eiae Zeit lang die Forscbungen auf dem Gebiet der patbologiscben Histologie in den Vordergrund; bald verband sicb aber aucb diese mit dem Experiment, und so kam der rapide Fort- scbritt zu Stande, dessen Zeugen wir gewesen sind, und nocb sind. Icb kann es nur lebbaft bedauern, dass mancbe jUngere Cbirurgen, in ibrer Begeisterung fiir den letzten grossen Fortscbritt durcb die antiseptiscbe Metbode, ganz vergessen, dass dieselbe doch aucb nur ein Resultat aus den Arbeiten unserer Vorganger ist, ein Glied in44 THE IIUNTERIAN ORATION. einer grossen Kette, die zum HeU der Menschheit noch recht laug werden moge. Ich verehve Lister's und Volkmann's Arbeiten und ihren Eifer der antiseptischen Methode iiberall Eingang zu ver- schaffen sehr, und erkenne darin einen eminenten Erfolg der rich- tigen Combination von Theorie und Praxis. Doch wenn die Ueber- eifrigen versichern, nun fange die Chirurgie erst an, Alles friihere sei nur von historischem Werth, gehdre in ein Museum oder in eine alte verstaubte Bibliothek, so kann ich damit nicht Uberein- stimmen. Ich fiir meine Person werde micli stets gliicklich schatzen, ■wenn meine besclieidenen Arbeiten sich in einem Biiclierschrank vorfinden sollten, in welcbem die Werke eines John .Hunter, Astley Cooper, etc., aufbewahrt werden. Mit freundlichstem Gruss hocbacbtungsvoll, W. Th. Billroth. 36. ' General Surgical Pathology and Therapeutics,' by Dr. Theodor Billroth. Translated from the fourth German edition, and revised from the eighth, by C. E. Hackley, M.D., London, 1880, p. 13. 37. Truly, Hunter's repute as a gi-eat anatomist and surgeon had long been heard of in Prance; but his real work was hardly known there at the earlier part of the present century. The first direct notice of him seems, so far as I can ascertain, to have been taken by Breschet, who published in 1816, in the 'Bulletins de la Societe Medicale d'Emulation,' a sketch of 'Hunter's Theory of Life' (taken from Mr. Abernethy's Lectures at the College) to- gether with a few extracts from Hunter's ' Treatise on the Blood and Inflammation.' Not till the translation of Palmer's edition of ' Hunter's Works,' by Richelot, came out in Paris in 1839, had French sm-geons a complete opportunity of appreciating the extent and scope of his labours. The originality of his views occasioned not a little sur- prise in the French schools of medicine. The following are a few extracts from a review of Hunter's Works, by M. Royer-Collard, ' Gazette Medicale de Paris,' 1840, p. 382 :— ' Entre les divers travaux de I'annee medicale qui vient de finir, la publication des CEuvres Completes de J. Hunter effiice tous les autres par son importance, et appelle d'abord notre plus serieuse attention. C'est plus qu'un livre qui a paru, c'est un veritable evenement scientifique; c'est presqu'une decouverte. II nous est permis,enfin, decontempler a loisirl'un des plus beaux monumentsNOTES. 45 que le genie de la science ait 6]ev6 dans les temps modernes. Nous pouvons etudier et connaitre dans toutes ses parties cette grande ceuvi-e, presque aussi nouvelle pour nous, aprte cinquante ans, qu'elle le fut aux jours m^mes de sa naissance ' 'Nul, peut-etre, n'a pousse aussi loin que Ini I'observation exacte et'minutieuse des faits, mais nul n'a possede k un plus rare degr6 ce que Biiffon appelle " cette faculty de penser en grand qui multiplie la science : " nul n'y a etabli un plus grand nombre de ces vues generales qui la vivifient et la fecondent. II a igaU Cuvier par la precision et la suret6 de la m^thode, qui est constamment celle de Bacon et de Newton, la vraie, la seule metbode scientifique : il I'a surpasse par la hauteur de sa phUosophie, par la puissance et roriginalite de sa conception ' ' Convaincu que les memes lois president a I'etat sain et a I'^tat morbide, il retrouve, dans les formations pathologiques, cette m^me force plastique dont il a donne, avant que personne n'y eut songe, une si admii-able theorie. Tout ce qu'ont etabli plus recemment Bichat, Pinel, MM. Dupuytren et Broussais, sur les diversit^s de I'inflammation dans les divers tissus, Hunter le signale, et souvent le developpe avec details. II est le veritable createur de I'anatomie et de la pathologic generales. Denue de la plupart des ressources que possede aujoui-d'hui la foule des medecins, il a trouve seul, et par la force de son genie, presque toutes les vues saillantes, que nous avons admirees comme nouveautes dans ses plus illustres succes- seurs ' 38. Hunter's great idea was to raise surgery into a science. To do this, he saw that a knowledge of human anatomy, how- ever miniate, was not enough. He saw that it was necessary for a sui'geon to have a compre- hensive knowledge of physiology and pathology—in other words the laws of life in health and the laws of life in disease. He saw that, though apparently different, they were intimately connected; that they mutually illustrate and explain each other, and should be fused into a single study. StUl, he felt that the laws of nature in health must be first understood; by these we should be led up to the laws of disease. To ascertain the laws of nature in health. Hunter's researches were not confined to man. He covered the whole range of the animal kingdom—step by step—from the most intricate, down to the most lowly organised creatures. But he did not stop here—he went into the vegetable world, and investigated it in a like manner.46 THE IIUNTERIAN ORATION. Nor did he stop in the vegetable world—he even studied the common inanimate matter of the globe—for he says, ' the better to understand animal matter, it is necessary to understand the pro- perties of common matter, in order to see how far these properties are introduced into the vegetable and animal operations.' ' In their decay, both animals and vegetables go through a series of regular spontaneous changes, until the whole return to common matter from whence they arose, for to the earth they must go from whence they came.' Thus Hunter's reach of thought and work carried him into in- organic science, where he clearly saw the foundations of all organic science must be laid. With this view he examined the structure of crystals, of which he had a valuable collection, both of regular and irregular forms, which he was accustomed to use in his lectiures to exemplify the difference between the laws of growth of organic bodies and the in- crease of inorganic bodies. His idea was that irregular crystals were pathological crystals. So far, it is universally admitted that Hunter laid, in his Mu- seum, the materials of the basis of a new science, comparative physiology. Having, in this manner, i.e. by an appeal to nature, obtained an insight into the general laws of the animal and vegetable economy in health, Hunter was satisfied that he had the key to the right understanding of pathology, not only in the animal, but in the vegetable world. Hunter's great mission was pathology. Of the laws of patho- logy he was constantly in search. To discover them was his high aim. He knew that the discovery would raise surgery to a science. His observations led him to the conclusion that the laws of pathology were identical with the laws of physiology; and that the best way to get a knowledge of human pathology was to survey the whole of nature as he had done. As an instance, I may refer to his showing his class an oak-leaf which he had picked up in his garden. On this leaf were several excrescences which we call oak-galls. These excrescences he found to be the results of irritation occasioned by a small insect—the ex- crescences being the organised exudation following inflammation. ' Lectures on the Principles of Surgery,' p. 391. Hunter showed that the comfortable condition which we call Health, was the result of observing certain rules of life; and thatNOTES. 47 the undesirable condition called Disease was the result of the neg- lect or infringement of those laws. In this way, he laid the foundation of those great advances which are now going on so rapidly—those, namely, which elucidate the laws of hygiene, and tend to prevent the generation and the spread of disease. 39. The following anecdote was often repeated by the late Dr. Garthshore, a physician of the old school, and intimate with Hun- ter. ' One morning, finding Mr. Hunter very busy in his collection, I observed, " Ah ! John, you are always at work." " I am," re- plied Mr. Hunter; "and when 1 am dead, you will not soon meet with another John Hunter." Whoever was acquainted with the parties, will never suspect that this sentence implied more than that, if his whole collection should not be in order during his life- time, it would be accomplished with great difficulty after his death.'—'Memoirs of J. Hunter,' by J. Adams. London, 1818, p. 260. 40. See a ' Memoir of Callender,' by Sir James Paget, Bart., in the 15th vol. of ' St. Bartholomew's Reports.' 41. 'Schools Inquiry Commission,'vol. i. ' Report of the Com- mission,' 1868, ch. i. In further support of this statement see an ' Address to the Students of the Westminster Hospital,' by Dr. Dupre. * Lancet' for 1879, vol. ii. p. 498. Dupre says : ' Looking back to his school-days he could re- member the enthusiasm with which the advantages of a so-called technical education as opposed to the old classical education were supported by many great scientific men of the day, and foremost among these by Baron Liehig. ' The efiect of this movement was such that for a time, at least, classics were considered only secondary in importance as a factor in education. ' But a reaction took place, and Liebig himself admitted in after years, that, among his own students, those who had received a classical education were superior to the rest.' .... LOXDON ; rHHTTISD IIT SrOTTISWOODK AND CO., NKW-STnUKT SQUARE AND PARLIAMENT STBEET GLASGOW UNIVERSITY LIBRARYBy the same Autlior. MANUAL OF DISSECTION OF THE HUMAN BODY. With numerous Elustrations. HUMAN OSTEOLOGY. Comprising a Description of tlie Bones witli Delineations of the Attachments of the Muscles. Sixth Edition in the press. LANDMARKS, MEDICAL AND SURGICAL. Third Edition. I.,Bound a, spottiswoode London