3i5 OF THE FOOT. •ernally to the tibia, and above is continuous with the fascia of the leg ; it contains o separate sheaths, one internally, for the tendon of the Tibialis anticus; one ternally, for the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum and Peroneus tertius, e tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, and the anterior tibial vessels and rve pass beneath it, but without any distinct sheath. The horizontal portion is tached externally to the upper surface of the os calcis, in front of the depression r the interosseous ligament, and internally to the inner malleolus and plantar scia : it contains three sheaths ; the most internal for the tendon of the Tibialis iticns, the next in order for the tendon of the Extensor proprius pollicis, and the ost external for the Extensor longus digitorum and Peroneus tertius: the iterior tibial vessels and nerve lie altogether beneath it. These sheaths are lined separate synovial membranes. The Internal Annular Ligament is a strong fibrous band, which extends from the ner malleolus above, to the internal margin of the os calcis below, converting a I ries of bony grooves in this situation into osseo-fibrous canals, for the passage of k-ie tendons of the Flexor muscles and vessels into the sole of the foot. It is con- j: auous above with the deep fascia of the leg, below with the plantar fascia and the hares of origin of the Abductor pollicis muscle. The three canals which it forms, [• ansmit from within outwards, first, the tendon of the Tibialis posticus ; second, ie tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, then the posterior tibial vessels and h’srve, which run through a broad space beneath the ligament; lastly, in a canal I armed partly by the astragalus, the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. Each c these canals is lined by a separate synovial membrane. The External Annular Ligament extends from the extremity of the outer malleo- . is to the outer surface of the os calcis : it binds down the tendons of the Peronei luscles in their passage beneath the outer angle. The two tendons are enclosed a one synovial sac. Dissection of the Sole of the Foot. The foot should he placed on a high block with the sole . .ppemiost, and tirinly secured in that position. Carry an incision round the heel and along he inner and outer borders of the foot to the great and little toes. This incision should iivide the integument and thick layer of granular fat beneath, until the fascia is visible ; the kin and fat should then be removed from the fascia in a direction from behind forwards, as een in fig. 189. The Plantar Fascia, the densest of all the fibrous membranes, is of great strength, md consists of dense pearly-white glistening fibres, disposed, for the most part, '.ongitudinally : it is divided into a central and two lateral portions. The central portion, the thickest, is narrow behind and attached to the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, behind the origin of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and • becoming broader and thinner in front, divides opposite the middle of the meta- tarsal bones into five processes, one for each of the toes. Each of these processes divides opposite the metatarso-phalangeal articulation into two slips, which embrace the sides of the flexor tendons of the toes, and are inserted into the sides of the metatarsal bones, and into the transverse metatarsal ligament, thus forming a series of arches through which the tendons of the short and long flexors pass to the toes. The intervals left between the five processes allow the digital vessels and nerves, and the tendons of the Lumbricales and Interossei muscles to become superficial. At the point of division of the fascia into processes and slips, nume- rous transverse fibres are superadded, which serve to increase the strength of the fascia at this part, by binding the processes together, and connecting them with the integument. The central portion of the plantar fascia is continuous with the lateral portions at each side, and sends upwards into the foot, at their point of junction, two strong vertical intermuscular septa, broader in front than behind, which separate the middle from the external and intornal plantar group of muscles ; from these again thinner transverse septa are derived, which separate the various layers of muscles in this region. The upper surface of this fascia gives attach- ment behind to the Flexor brevis digitorum muscle. lhe lateral portions ol the plantar fascia are thinner than the central piece and cover the Sides of the foot.