GENERAL ANATOMY. evm umbilical vesicle is then a closed sac, lying external to the amnion. It is formed mainly by the internal germinal layer, but has a lining derived from the middle layer. As the arteries developed in the middle layer grow they cover the umbilical vesicle, forming the vascular area, the chief vessels of which are the omphalomesenteric, two in number. The vessels of this area appear to absorb the fluid of the umbilical vesicle, which dries up into a disc-like body attached to the amnion, and having no further function. The activity of the umbilical vesicle ceases about the same time (fifth or sixth week) as the allantois is formed. In fact, the umbilical vesicle provides nutrition to the foetus from the ovum itself, while the allantois is the channel whereby nutrition is conveyed to it from the uterine tissues. The umbilical vesicle, however, is visible, containing fluid up to the fourth or fifth month, between tbe amnion and the chorion, with its pedicle and the omphalomesenteric vessels. The latter vessels then become atrophied, as the functional activity of the body with which they are connected ceases. The Chorion (Figs. XLIX., k, L.).—The primitive chorion has already been described. It is formed by the vitelline membrane, which becomes covered with shaggy villous processes, and disappears about the fifteenth day, to give place to the secondary or permanent chorion. The latter is composed of two lamellae, the external of one which is furnished by the vesicula serosa, (or false amnion), and the internal by the fibrous layer of the allantois. This latter furnishes a vascular membrane, which is applied to the epithe- lial layer of the chorion (vesicula serosa) (Fig. XLVIII., 13, 14, 15). As the latter becomes villous by the development of tufts upon it {shaggy chorion), the blood-vessels of the internal layer pass into these tufts, form- ing the foetal portion of the placenta, and dipping through the decidua into the uterine sinuses of the maternal placenta. The Decidua (Figs. XLVIII. XLIX.) is formed from the mucous mem- brane of the uterus. Even before the arrival of the fecundated ovum in the uterus, the mucous membrane of the latter becomes vascular and tumid, and when the ovum has reached the uterus, it is imbedded in the folds of the mucous membrane, which overlap, and finally completely encircle the ovum. Thus two portions of the uterine mucous membrane (decidua) are formed—viz. that which coats the muscular wall of the uterus, decidua 'vera, and that which is in contact with the ovum, decidua rejlexa. The decidua does not extend into the neck of the uterus, which after conception is closed by a plug of mucus. The decidua vera is perforated by the openings formed by the enlarged uterine glands, which become much hyper- trophied and developed into tortuous tubes. It contains at a later period numerous arteries and venous channels, continuous with the uterine sinuses, and it is from it that the uterine part of the placenta is developed. The portion of the decidua vera which takes part in the formation of the placenta is called ‘decidua serotina.’ The decidua reflexa is shaggy on its outer aspect, but smooth within. The vessels which it contains at first disappear after about the third month; about the fifth or sixth month the space between the two layers of the decidua disappears, and towards the end of pregnancy the decidua is transformed into a thin yellowish membrane, which constitutes the external envelope of the ovum.