291 OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Posterior Tibiofibular Region. Superficial Layer. Plantar Region. First Layer. gastrocnemius. 'lantaris. •oleus. Abductor pollicis. Flexor brevis digitorum. Abductor minimi digiti. Deep Layer. Second Layer. ' ’opliteus. dexor longus pollicis. dexor longus digitorum. hbialis posticus. Flexor accessorius. Lumbricales. Third Layer. Fibular Region. Flexor brevis pollicis. Adductor pollicis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Trans versus pedis. ’eroneus longus. ’eroneus brevis. Foot. Dorsal Region. . Ixtensor brevis digitorum. Fourth Layer. The Interrossei. Psoas Magnus. Iliac Region. Psoas Parvus. Iliacus. Dissection. No detailed description is required for the dissection of these muscles. On the ■ emoval of the viscera from the abdomen, they are exposed, covered by the peritoneum and I. thin layer of fascia, the fascia iliaca. The iliac fascia is the aponeurotic layer which lines the back part of the abdominal cavity, and encloses the Psoas and Iliacus muscles throughout their jr vhole extent. It is thin above ; and becomes gradually thicker below, as it approaches the femoral arch. The portion investing the Psoas, is attached, above, to the ligamentum arcuatum nternum ; internally, to the sacrum; and by a series of arched processes to the [ ntervertebral substances, and prominent margins of the bodies of the vertebras; : be intervals so left, opposite the constricted portions of the bodies, transmitting be lumbar arteries and filaments of the sympathetic nerve. Externally, this portion : )f the iliac fascia is continuous with the fascia lumborum. The portion investing the Iliacus is connected, externally, to the whole length of the inner border of the crest of the ilium ; and internally to the brim of the true lelvis, where it is continuous with the periosteum, and receives the tendon of insertion of the Psoas parvus, when that muscle exists. External to the femoial vessels, this fascia is intimately connected with Poupart s ligament, and is con- tinuous with the fascia transversalis ; but, as the femoral vessels pass down into S': the thigh, it is prolonged down behind them, forming the posterior wall of the femoral sheath. Under the femoral sheath, the iliac fascia surrounds the Psoas ; and Iliacus muscles to their termination, and becomes continuous with the Ilian . portion of the fascia lata. Internal to the femoral vessels, the iliac fascia is ' connected to the iliopectineal line, and is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The iliac vessels lie in front of the iliac fascia, but all the branches of the lumbar plexus behind it; it is separated from the peritoneum by a quantity of loose areolar tissue. In abscess accompanying caries of the lower part of the spine, the matter makes its way to the femoral arch, distending the sheath of the I soas , ! and when it accumulates in considerable quantity, this muscle becomes absoibed, and the nervous cords contained in it are dissected out, and are exposed in the cavity of the abscess ; the femoral vessels, however, remain intact, and the peri- toneum seldom becomes implicated. Remove this fascia, and the muscles of the iliac region will bo exposed. The Psoas Magnus (fig. 187) is a long fusiform muscle, placed on the side 0