5*4 ORGANS OF SENSE. llie lachrymal gland i.s lodged in a depression at tlio outer angle of the orbit, on the inner side of the external angular process of the frontal bone. It is of an oval form, about the size and shape of an almond. Its upper convex surface is in contact with the periosteum of tho orbit, to which it is connected by a few fibrous bands. Its under concave surface rests upon the convexity of the eyeball, and upon the Superior and External recti mnscles. Its vessels and nerves enter its posterior border, whilst its anterior margin is closely adherent to the back part of the upper eyelid, and is covered, on its inner surface, by a reflection of the con- junctiva. This margin is separated from the rest of the gland by a slight depression, hence it is sometimes described as a separate lobe, called the palpebral portion of the gland. In structure and general appearance tho lachrymal resembles the salivary glands. Its ducts, about seven in number, run obliquely beneath the mucous membrane for a short distance, and separating from each other, open by a series of minute orifices on the upper and outer half of the conjunctiva, near its reflection on to the globe. These orifices are arranged in a row, so as to disperse the secretion over the surface of the membrane. The lachrymal canals commence at the minute orifices, puncta lachrymalis, seen on the margin of the lids, at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis. They commence on the summit of a slightly elevated papilla, the papilla lachrymalis, and lead into minute canals, the canaliculi, which proceed inwards to terminate in the lachrymal sac. The superior canal, the smaller and longer of the two, at first ascends, and then bends at an acute angle, and passes inwards and downwards to the lachrymal sac. The inferior canal at first descends, and then abruptly changing its course, passes almost horizontally inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure, and somewhat dilated at their angle. The lachrymal sac is the upper dilated extremity of the nasal duct, and is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the superior maxillary. It is oval in form, its upper extremity being closed in and rounded, whilst below it is continued into the nasal duct. It is covered by the Tensor tarsi muscle and by a fibrous expansion derived from the tendo oculi, which is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. In structure it consists of a fibrous elastic coat, lined internally by mucous membrane: the latter being continuous, through the canaliculi, with the mucous lining of the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the pituitary membrane of the nose. The nasal duct is a membranous canal, about three quarters of an inch in length, which extends from the lower part of the lachrymal sac to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by a somewhat expanded orifice, provided with an imperfect valve formed by the mucous membrane. It is contained in an osseous Canal, formed by the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, and the inferior turbinated bones, is narrower in the middle than at each extremity, and takes a direction downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous below with the pituitary lining of the nose. In the canaliculi, this membrane is provided with scaly epithelium ; but in the lach- rymal sac and nasal duct, the epithelium is ciliated as in the nose. The Ear. The organ of hearing has three parts: the external ear, the middle ear or tym- panum, and the internal ear or labyrinth. The external ear consists of an expanded portion named pinna, or auricle, and the auditory canal, of meatus. The former serves to collect the vibrations of the air by which sound is produced, and the latter conducts those vibrations to the tympanum. The pinna, or auricle (fig. 309), is formed by a layer of cartilage, covered with integument, and connected to the commencemeht of the auditory canal: it is of an ovoid form, its surface uneven, with its larger end directed upwards. Its outer surface is irregularly concave, directed slightly forwards, and presents numerous