527 BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The external branches supply the muscles at the side of the neck, viz., the Cerviealis ascendens, Transversalis colli, and Traclielo-mastoid. The external branch of the second cervical nerve is the largest; it is often joined ■with the third, and supplies the Complexus, Splenius, and Traclielo-mastoid muscles. The internal branches, the larger, arc distributed differently in the upper and lower part of the neck. Those derived from the third, fourth, and fifth nerves pass betwecnTne Semispinalis and Complexus muscles, and having reached the spinous processes, perforate the aponeurosis of the Splenius and Trapezius, and are continued outwards to the integument over the Trapezius ; whilst those derived from the three lowest cervical nerves are the smallest, and are placed l^enoa^h the Semispinalis, which they supply, and do not furnish any cutaneous filaments. These internal branches supply the Complexus, Semispinalis colli, Interspinales, and Multilidus spinte. The posterior brandies of the three first cervical nerves require a separate description. The posterior branch of the first cervical nerve (suboccipital) is larger than the anterior, and escapes from the spinal canal between the occipital bone and the posterior arch of the atlas, lying behind the vertebral artery. It enters the triangular space formed by the Rectus posticus major, the Obliquns superior, and Obliqnus inferior, and supplies the Recti and Obliqui muscles, and the Complexus. From the branch which supplies the Inferior obliqpe a filament is given off, which joins the second cervical nerve. This nerve also occasionally gives off a cutaneous filament, which accompanies the occipital artery, and communicates with the occipitalis major and minor nerves. The posterior division of the first cervical has no branch analogous to the external branch of the postei’ior cervical nerves. The posterior branch of the second cervical nerve is three or four times greater than the anterior branch, and the largest of all tho posterior cervical nerves. It emerges from the spinal canal between the posterior arch of the atlas and lamina of the axis, below the Inferior oblique. It supplies this muscle, and receives a com- municating filament from the first cervical. It then divides into an external and an internal branch. The internal branch, called, from its size and distribution, the occipitalis major, ascends obliquely inwards between the Obliquus inferior and Complexus, and pierces the latter muscle and the Trapezius near their attachments to the cranium. It is now joined by a filament from the third cervical nerve, and ascending on the back part of the head with the occipital artery, divides into two branches, which supply the integument of the scalp as far forwards as the vertex, communicating with the occipitalis minor. It gives off an auricular branch to the back part of the ear, and muscular branches to the Complexus. The postenor branch of the third cervical is smaller than the preceding, but larger than the fourth; it differs from the posterior branches of the other cervical nerves in its supplying an additional filament to the integument of the occiput. This occipital branch arises from the internal or cutaneous branch beneath the Trapezius ; it pierces that muscle, and supplies the skin on the lower and back part of the head. It lies to the inner side of the occipitalis major, with which it is connected. The internal branches of the posterior divisions of the first three cervical nerves are occasionally joined beneath the Complexus by communicating branches. This communication is described by Cruveilhier as the posterior cei'vical plexus. The Brachial Plexus. (Pig. 282.) The brachial plexus is formed by the union of the anterior branches of the four lower cervical and first dorsal nerves. It extends from tho lower part of (lie side of the neck to the axilla. It is very broad and presents little of a plexiform arrangement at its commencement, is narrow opposite the clavicle, becomes broad,