568 ORGANS OF SENSE. form by their union, tho dorsum, tho direction of which varies considerably in different individuals. Tho dorsum terminates below in a rounded eminence, the lobe of the noso. The nose is composed of a framework of bones and cartilages, the latter being slightly acted upon by certain muscles. It is covered externally by the integument, internally by mucous membrane, and supplied with vessels and nerves. The bony framework occupies the upper part of the organ: it consists of the nasal bones, and the nasal processes of the superior maxillary. The cartilaginous framework consists of five pieces, the two upper, and the two lower lateral cartilages, and the cartilage of the septum. The upper lateral cartilages are situated below the free margin of the nasal bones ; each cartilage is flattened, and triangular in shape. Its anterior margin is thicker than the posterior, and connected with the fibro-cartilage of the septum. Its posterior margin is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxillary and nasal bones. Its inferior margin is connected by fibrous tissue with the lower lateral cartilage : one surface is turned outwards, the other inwards towards tho nasal cavity. The lower lateral cartilages are two thin, flexible plates, situated immediately below the preceding, and curved in such a manner as to form the inner and outer walls of each orifice of the nostril. The por- tion which forms the inner wall, thicker than the rest, is loosely connected with the same part of the opposite cartilage, and forms a small part of the columna. Its outer extremity, free, rounded, and projecting, forms, with the thickened integument and sub- jacent tissue, the lobe of the nose. The part which forms the outer wall is curved to coi-- respond with the ala of the nose : it is oval and flattened, narrow behind, where it is con- nected with the nasal process of the superior maxilla by a tough fibrous membrane, in which are found three or four small cartilaginous plates (sesamoid cartilages), cartilagbies miuores. Above, it is connected to the upper lateral cartilage and front part of the cartilage of the septum; below, it is separated from the margin of the nostril by dense cellular tissue ; and in front, it forms, with its fellow, the prominence of the tip of the nose. The cartilage of the septum is somewhat triangular in form, thicker at its margins than at its centre, and completes the separation between the nasal fossa? in front. Its anterior margin, thickest above, is connected from above down-wards with the nasal bones, the front part of the two upper lateral-cartilages, and the inner portion of the two lower lateral cartilages. Its posterior margin is connected with tho perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid ; its inferior margin with the vomer and the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones. These various cartilages are connected to each other, and to the bones, b}^ a tough fibrous membrane, the perichondrium, which allows the utmost facility of movement between them. The muscles of the nose are situated immediately beneath the integument: they are (on each side) the Pyramidalis nasi, the Levator labii superioris aloeque nasi, tho Dilatator naris, anterior and posterior, the Compressor nasi, the Coru- 299.—Bones and Cartilages of Septum of Nose. Right Side.