260 MUSCLES AND FASCLE. 3.Dissection of SHOULDER U ARM of tho abdomen below ; opposite the mamma, it subdivides into two layers, one of which passes in front, the other be- hind that gland; and from both of i68.-l)issection of Upper Extremity. these layers numerous septa pass into its substance, supporting its various lobes: from the anterior layer, fibrous processes pass for- ward to the integument and nipple, enclosing in their areolce masses of fat. These processes were called by Sir A. Cooper the ligamenta suspensoria, from the support they afford to the gland in this situation. On removing the superficial fascia, the deep fascia of the thoracic region is exposed : it is a thin aponeurotic lamina, covering the surface of the great Pectoral muscle, and sending numerous prolongations between its fasciculi: it is attached, in the mid- dle line, to the front of the sternum ; and, above, to the clavicle: it is very thin over the upper part of the muscle, somewhat thicker in the interval between the Pectoralis major and Latissimus dorsi, where it closes in the axillary space, and divides at the margin of the latter muscle into two layers, one of which passes in front, and the other behind it; these proceed as far as the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebras, to which they are attached. At the lower part of the thoracic region, this fascia is well developed, and is continuous with the fibrous sheath of the Recti muscles. /. Dissection of PECTORAL REGION and, axilla 2 . BEND ^ELBOW FORE-ARM PALM of HAND Anterior Thoracic Region. Pectoralis Major. Pectoralis Minor. Subclavius, The Pectoralis Major (fig. 169) is a broad, thick, triangular muscle, situated at , the upper and fore part of the chest, in front of the axilla. It arises from the anterior surface of the sternal half of the clavicle ; from half the breadth of the front of the sternum, aglow down as the attachment of the cartilage of the sixth or seventh rib; its origin consisting of aponeurotic fibres, which intersect with those of the opposite muscle ; it also arises from the cartilages of all the true ribs, with the exception, frequently, of the first, or of the seventh, or both ; and from the aponeurosis of the External oblique muscle of the abdomen. Tho fibres from this extensive origin converge towards its insertion, giving to the muscle a radiated appearance. Those fibres which arise from the clavicle pass obliquely outwards and downwards, and are usually separated from the rest by a cellular interval: those from the lower part of the sternum, and the cartilages of the lower true ribs, pass upwards and outwards ; whilst the middle fibres pass horizontally. As these three sots of fibres converge, they are so disposed that the upper overlap the middle, and the middle the lower portion, the fibres of the lower portion being folded backwards upon themselves ; so that those fibres which are lowest in front become highest at their point of insertion. They all terminate in a fiat tendon, about two inches broad, which is inserted into the anterior bicipital ridge of the