SUBCLAVIAN. 359 ;he brachial plexus, and Omo-hyoid muscle. Below, it rests on the outer surface of ;he first rib. Plan op Relations of Third Portion of Subclavian Artery. In front. External jugular, suprascapular, and transverse cervical veins. Descending branches of cervical plexus. Subclavian muscle, suprascapular artery, and clavicle. Above. Brachial plexus. Omo-hyoid. Below. First rib. Scalenus medius. Peculiarities. The Subclavian arteries vary in their origin, their course, and the height to "Mr ‘.dL'rf the righTsubclavian from the innominate takes place, in some cases above the stemSavicular articulation; and occasionally, but less frequently m the' eapW of the i n irx-nr tVint inint Or the arterv may arise as a separate trunk from the arch of the aoita. eSLr thfSrsecond, third, Jr even the last branch derived from that vesseT: in the majority of cases, it is the first or last rarely the second or third. When .' +i a first Virnnoh it occunies the ordinary position ot the innominate aiteiy, when the it is the* * ^ it UgUai position by passing behind the right carotid ; and when the second or thiid, it left extremity of the arch, at its upper or back part, and passes obLuX towards the right side usually behind the oesophagus aniright carotid, sometimes between the'cesOThagus and trachea, to the upper border of the fimTnb whence it follows its ordinary course. In very rare instances, this vessel arises from‘the thoracic aoita, as low down as the fourth dorsal vertebra. Occasionally, it perforates the Anterior Scalenus ; moi rarelv it passes in front of that muscle : sometimes the subclavian vein passes with the aiteiy behind the Scalenus. The artery sometimes ascends as high as an inch and a half above the claUcle^or to any intermediate point between this and the upper border of the bone, the right subclavian usually ascending higher than the left. _ _ The left subclavian is occasionally joined at its origin with the left carot d. Suraical Anatomy. The relations of the subclavian arteries of the two sides haying been examined the student should direct his attention to consider the best position in which compression of the vessel may be effected, or in what situation a ligature may be best atmlied in cases of aneurism or wounds. , , ,, , ,, ^Comyreadmt of the subclavian artery is required in cases of operations about the shoulder, in thTSfa, or at the upper part of the arm ; and the student will observe that there is only one situation in which it can be effectually applied, vis., where the artery passes across the outer surface of the first rib. In order to compress the vessel in this situation, the shoulder should be depressed, and the surgeon grasping the side of the neck may press with h,s thumb in the hollow behind the clavicle downwards against the rib; if from any cause the shoulder cannot be sufficiently depressed, pressure maybe made from before back wauls, so Is to compress the artery against the Middle Scalenus and transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. In appropriate cases, a preliminary incision may be made through the cervical fascia, and the finger may be pressed down directly upon the artery. Ligature of the Mavian artery maybe required in cases of wounds, or of aneurism in the axilla; and the third part of the artery is that which is most favouiable ior an operation, on account of its being comparatively superficial, and most remote from the origin of the laro-e branches. In those cases where the clavicle is not displaced, this operation may be performed with comparative facility; but where the clavicle is pushed up by a large aneu- rismal tumour in the axilla, the artery is placed at a great depth from the surface, which materially increases the difficulty of the operation. Under these circumstances, it becomes a matter of importance to consider the height to which this vessel reaches above the bone. In ordinary cases, its arch is about half an inch above the clavicle, occasionally as ng i as an inch and a half, and sometimes so low as to be on a level with its upper mo ei. 10 clavicle is displaced, these variations will necessarily make the operation more oi less ( i u u , according as the vessel is more less accessible. . The chief points in the operation of tying the third portion ol the .subclavian ai eiv a as follows: the patient being placed on a table in the horizontal position, and 1 n s 10,1 ’ *1 depressed as much as possible, the integument should be drawn downwards upon ( ■' vide, and an incision made through it upon that bono from the anterior border o