CXX1 DEVELOPMENT OF VESSELS. ventricular end of the rudimentary heart (Fig. LVIII., 1). The septum which divides this common artery into two begins to appear very early, even before the interventricular septum. The formation of the permanent vessels is shown by the following diagram :— Fi^. LIX.—Diagram of tlie formation of the aortic arches and the large arteries. I. II. III. IV. V., First, second, third, fourth and fifth aortic arches. A, Common trunk from which the first pair spring; the place where the succeeding pairs are formed is indicated by dotted lines. B, Common trunk, with four arches and a trace of the fifth. C, Common trunk with the three last pairs, the first two having been obliterated. D, The persistent arteries, those which have disappeared being indicated by dotted lines, i, Common arterial trunk. 2, Thoracic aorta. 3, llight branch of the common trunk, which is only temporary. 4, Left branch, permanent. 5, Axillary artery. 6, Vertebral. 7, 8, Subclavian. 9, Common carotid. 10, External; and 11, Internal carotid. 12, Aorta. 13, Pulmonary artery. 14, 15, Bight and left pulmonary arteries. The descending aorta appears to be the remnant of the artery formed by the union of the two primitive aortrn. The omphalomesenteric arteries, which spring from these latter, all disappear except one, which remains as the superior mesenteric artery. The umbilical arteries are at first the terminations of the two principal aortse, but when these vessels are united into one, the umbilical arteries appear as branches, and the aorta itself ends in a caudal prolongation, which afterwards becomes the middle sacral. The common and internal iliac arteries are the only permanent remains of the umbilical arteries (see p. 398). Veins.—The primitive venous circulation has been described above, the two omphalomesenteric veins opening by a common trunk into the lower end of the tube which represents the heart. The next state of the venous circulation is, that at about four weeks there is found a single vein lying behind the intestinal cavity (not in front of it, as the temporary omphalomesenteric veins do), and receiving the trunk vein from the intestine (mesenteric). Two umbilical veins are early formed, and open together into the coinfnon trunk of the omphalomesenteric vein. They receive branches from the allantois and anterior surface of the embryo. The right vein soon disappears; the left umbilical vein, on the contrary, grows till it becomes the trunk vessel into which the omphalomesenteric vein and its mesenteric branch appear to open. Next the liver begins to be formed around the umbilical vein, and then this vein sends branches into that gland (afferent veins) which afterwards become the portal veins in the interior of the liver, and which give origin to other veins (efferent), which return the blood from the liver, and form afterwards the hepatic vains. The portion of the umbilical vein between the giving off of the future portal vessels and the reception of the hepatic, forms the ductus venosus. The mesenteric vein communicates at first with the omphalo- mesenteric; when the veins of the liver are formed, the omphalomesenteric