737 ISCHIO-RECTAL REGION. two or three cutaneous branches of the small sciatic norvo ; these turn round tho inferior border of tho Glutmus maximus, and are distributed to the integument in this region. ; 392.—Dissection of Perineeum and Iscliio-Rcctul Region. The External sphincter is a thin flat plane of muscular fibres, elliptical in shape, aind intimately adherent to tho integument surrounding the margin of the .anus. It measures about three or four inches in length, from its anterior to its ; posterior extremity, being about an inch, in breadth, opposite the anus. It arises from the tip of the coccyx, by a narrow tendinous band; and from the superficial ’.fascia in front of that bone ; and is inserted into the tendinous centre of the iperinoeum, joining witb the Transversus perinasi, the Levator ani, and the Acce- lerator urinae. Like other Sphincter muscles, it consists of two planes of muscular :fibre, which surround the margin of the amis, and join in a commissure before land behind. Belations. By its superficial surface, with the integument; by its deep surface, i it is in contact with the Internal sj)kincter ; and is separated from the Levator ani 1 by loose areolar tissue. The Sphincter ani is a voluntary muscle, supplied by the hsemorrhoidal branch 1 of the fourth sacral nerve. This muscle is divided in the operation for fistula in 1 ano ; and also in some cases of fissure of the rectum, especially if attended with much pain or spasm. The object of its division is to keep the parts at rest and in contact during the healing process. The Internal sphincter is a muscular ring, about an inch in breadth, which surrounds the lower extremity of the rectum, about an inch from the margin of the anus. This muscle is about two lines in thickness, and is formed by an aggregation of the involuntary circular fibres of the intestine. It is paler in i colour, and less coarse in texture, than the External sphincter. The ischio-rectal fossa is situated between the end of the rectum and the "tuberosity of the ischium on each side. It is triangular in shape, its base, directed ' to the surface of the body, is formed by the integument of the ischio-rectal region ; ; its apex, directed upwards, corresponds to the point of division of the obturator 1 fascia, and the thin membrane given off from it, which covers the outer surface of ■ the Levator ani (ischio-rectal fascia). Its dimensions are about an inch in breadth, at the base, and about two inches in depth, being deeper behind than in front. It is bounded, internally, by the Sphincter ani, Levator ani, and Coccygcus muscles; externalhj, by the tuberosity of tho ischium, and the obturator fascia, which covers the inner surface of tho Obturator interims muscle; in front, it is limited by the line of junction of tho superficial and deep perinseal fasciae: and behind, by the margin of tho Gluttons maximus, and the great sacro-sciatic 3 &