MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 284 surface, with tlie Adductor pollicis, and tendon of the Flexor carpi radialis. By the external surface, with the Opponens pollicis. By its internal surface, with the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. The Adductor Pollicis (fig. 173) is the most deeply-seated of this group of muscles. It is of a triangular form, arising, by its broad base, from the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger on its palmar surface; the fibres, proceeding outwards, converge, to be inserted with the innermost tendon of the Flexor brevis pollicis, into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, and into the internal sesamoid bone. dictations. By its superficial surface, with the Flexor brevis pollicis, the tendons of the Flexor profundus and the Lumbricales. Its deep surface covers the first two interosseous spaces, from which it is separated by a strong aponeurosis. Nerves. The Abductor, Apponens, and outer head of the Flexor brevis pollicis, are supplied by the median nerve ; the inner head of the Flexor brevis, and the Adductor pollicis, by the ulnar nerve. Actions. The actions of the muscles of the thumb are almost sufficiently indi- cated by their names. This segment of the hand is provided with three Extensors, an Extensor of the metacarpal bone, an Extensor of the first, and an Extensor of the second phalanx; these occupy the dorsal surface of the forearm and hand. There are, also, three flexors on the palmar surface, a Flexor of the metacarpal bone, the Flexor ossis metacarpi (Opponens Pollicis), the Flexor brevis pollicis, and the Flexor longus pollicis ; there is also an Abductor and an Adductor. These muscles give to the thumb its extensive range of motion. Ulnar Region. (Fig. 177.) Muscles of the Little Finger. Palmaris Brevis. Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti. Abductor Minimi Digiti. Opponens Minimi Digiti (Flexor Ossis Metacarpi). The Palmaris Brevis is a thin quadrilateral muscle, placed beneath the integu- ment on the ulnar side of the hand. It arises by tendinous fasciculi, from the annular ligament and palmar fascia; the fleshy fibres pass horizontally inwards, to be inserted into the skin on the inner border of the palm of the hand. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument to which it is inti- mately adherent, especially by its inner extremity. By its deep surface, with the inner portion of the palmar fascia; which separates it from the ulnar vessels and nerve, and from the muscles of the ulnar side of the hand. The Abductor Minimi Digiti is situated on the ulnar border of the palm of the hand. It arises from the pisiform bone, and from an expansion of the tendon of the Flexor carpi ulnaris ; and terminates in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the inner portion of the palmar fascia, and the Palmaris brevis. By its deep surfacel with the Flexor ossis meta- carpi. By its inner border, with the Flexor brevis minimi digiti. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti lies on the same plane as the preceding muscle, on its radial side. It arises from the tip of the unciform process of the unciform bone, and anterior surface of the annular ligament, and is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger, with the preceding. It is separated from the Abductor at its origin, by the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve. This muscle is sometimes wanting; the Abductor is then, usually, of large size. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the internal portion of the palmar fascia, and the Palmaris brevis. By its deep surface, with the Opponens. The Opponens Minimi Digiti (fig. 173) is of a triangular form, and placed imme- diately beneath the preceding muscles. It arises from the unciform process of the unciform bone, and contiguous portion of the annular ligament; its fibres pass downwards and inwards, to be inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, along its ulnar margin.