MUSCLES AND FA SOLE. 312 The Flexor Longue Pollicis is situated on the fibular side of the leg, and is the if most superficial and largest of the three next muscles. It arises from the lower IIV two-tliirds of the internal surface of the shaft of the fibula, with the exception of I an inch at its lowest part; from the lower part of the interosseous membrane ; from ! p» an intermuscular septum between it and the Peronei, externally ; and from the i u fascia covering the Tibialis posticus. The fibres pass obliquely downwards and (flV backwards, and termiuate round a tendon which occupies nearly the whole length ';|P of the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon passes through a groove on the posterior surface of the tibia, external to that for the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum; it then passes through another groove on the posterior |Jj> extremity of the astralagus, and along a third groove, beneath the tubercle of the !■ os calcis, into the sole of the foot, where it runs forwards between the two heads of ! the Flexor brevis pollicis, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the ip great toe. The grooves in the astralagus and os calcis which contain the tendon of | the muscle, are converted by tendinous fibies into distinct canals, lined by synovial m membrane ; and as the tendon crosses the sole of the foot, it is connected to the |L common flexor by a tendinous slip. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Soleus and Tendo Achillis, from jft which it is separated by the deep fascia. By its deep surface with the fibula, ft Tibialis posticus, the peroneal vessels, the lower part of the interosseous mem- Ik. brane, and the ankle-joint. By its outer border, with the Peronei. By its inner Ift border, with the Tibialis posticus, and Flexor longus digitorum. The Flexor Longus Digitorum (perforans) is situated on the tibial side of the leg. At its origin, it is thin and pointed, but gradually increases in size as it [If descends. It arises from the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia imme- diately below the oblique line, to within three inches of its extremity, internal to the tibial origin of the Tibialis posticus ; some fibres also arise from the inter- muscular septum between it and the Tibialis posticus. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which runs nearly the whole length of the posterior surface of the muscle. This tendon passes, behind the malleolus, in a groove, common to it and the Tibialis posticus, but separated from the latter by a fibrous septum ; each tendon being contained in a special sheath lined by a separate synovial membrane. It then passes obliquely forwards and outwards, beneath the arch of the os calcis, into the sole of the foot (fig. 195), where, crossing beneath the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis, to which it is connected by a strong tendinous slip, it becomes expanded, is joined by the Flexor accessorius, and finally divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the bases of the last phalanges of the four lesser toes, each tendon passing through a fissure in the tendon of the Flexor bi*evis digitorum, opposite the middle of the first phalanges. Relations. In the leg: by its superficial surface, with the Soleus, and the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by the deep fascia; by its deep surface, with the tibia and Tibialis posticus. In the foot, it is covered by the Abductor Pollicis, and Flexor brevis digitorum, and crosses beneath the Flexor longus pollicis. The Tibialis Posticus lies between the two preceding muscles, and is the most deeply seated of all the muscles in the leg. It commences above by two pointed processes, separated by an angular interval, through which the anterior tibial vessels pass forwards to the front of the leg. It arises from the whole of the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, excepting its lowest part, from the posterior surface of the shaft of the tibia, external to the Flexor longus digitorum, between the commencement of the oblique line above, and the middle of the external border of the bone below, and from the upper two-thirds of the^ inner surface of the shall of the fibula; some fibres also arise from the deep fascia, and from the intermuscular septa, separating it from the adjacent muscles on each side. This muscle, in the lower fourth of the leg, passes in front of the Flexor longus digitorum, terminates in a tendon, which passes through a groove behind the inner malleolus, with the tendon of that muscle, but enclosed in a separato