THE SKELETON. 48 •m oiioi palatine fossa. In some bonos, a delicate linear suture may be seen ex- ending from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and the canine tooth. This marks out the intermaxillary, or incisive bone, which in some animals oxists permanently as a separate piece. It includes the whole thickness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the nose, and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. The outer border of the palate process is inoorpMatg^with the rest of the bone. The inner border is thicker in front than behmdland is raised above into a ridge, which, with the conesponding ridge in the opposite bone, forms a groove for the reception of the vomer. The anterior margin is bounded by the thin concave border of the opening of the nose, prolonged forwards internally into a sharp process, form in with a similar process of the opposite bone, the anterior nasal spine. The posterior border is serrated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the palate bone. Development. This bone is formed at such an early period, and ossification proceeds in it with such rapidity, that it has been found impracticable hi therto to determine with accuracy its number of centres. It appears, however, probable that it has four centres of development, viz., one for the nasal and facial por- tions, one for the orbital and malar, one for the incisive, and one for the palatal portion, in- 1 f“r J'Matal portt eluding the entire palate except the incisive segment. The inci- sive portion is indicated in young bones by a fissure, which marks r off a small segment of the palate, ” e"°' nrf"Le- including the two incisor teeth. In some animals, this remains permanently as a separate piece, constituting the intermaxillary bone ; and in the human subject, where the jaw is malformed, as in cleft palate, this segment may be separated from the maxillary bone by a deep fissure extending backwards between the two into the palate. If the fissure be on both sides, both segments are quite isolated from the maxillary bones, and hang from the end of the vomer: they are not unfrequently much displaced, and the deformity is often accompanied by congenital fissure of the upper lip, either on one or both sides of the median line. The maxillary sinus appears at an earlier period than any of the other nasal sinuses, its development commencing about the fourth month of foetal life. Articulations. With nine bones: two of the cranium—the frontal and ethmoid, and seven of the face, viz., the nasal, malar, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Sometimes it articulates with the orbital plate of the sphenoid. ' Attachment of Muscles. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Obliquus inferior oculi, Leva- tor labii superior aloeque nasi, Levator labii superioris proprius, Levator anguli- oris, Compressor nasi, Depressor aloe nasi, Masseter, Buccinator. 47-—Development of Superior Maxillary Bone. By four Centres. 1 for N~aiscuL Facial port.'.’! 1 for Orbital Malar port'1.* Anterior Surface. I fur facts? re port” at Birth The Lachrymal Bones. The Lachmjmal are the smallest and most fragile bones of the face. They are situated at the front part of the inner wall of the orbit, and resemble somewhat in