3° THE SKELETON. it affords attachment to the Temporal muscle, and forms part of the temporal fossa. At its hack part may bo seen a curved ridge—part of the temporal ridge ; it serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia, limits the origin of the Temporal muscle, and marks the boundary between the squamous and mastoid portion of the bone. Projecting from the lower part of the squamous portion is a long arched outgrowth of bone, the zygomatic process. This process is at first directed out- wards, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards ; it then appears as if twisted upon itself, and runs forwards, its surfaces now looking inwards and out- wards. The superior border of the process is long, thin, and sharp, and serves for the attachment of the temporal fascia. The inferior, short, thick, and arched, has attached to it some fibres of the Masseter muscle. Its outer surface is convex and subcutaneous; its inner is concave, and also affords attachment to the Masseter. The extremity, broad and deeply serrated, articulates with the malar bone. The zygomatic process is connected to the temporal bone by three divisions, called its roots—an anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior, which is short but broad and strong, runs transversely inwards into a rounded eminence, the eminentia articularis. This eminence forms the front boundary of the glenoid fossa, and in the recent state is covered with cartilage. The middle root forms the outer margin of the glenoid cavity; running obliquely inwards, it terminates at the commencement of a well-marked fissure, the Glaserian fissure ; whilst the posterior root, which is strongly marked, runs from the upper border of the zygoma, in an arched direction, upwards and backwards, forming the posterior part of the tempo- ral ridge. At the junction of the anterior root with the zygoma is a projection, called the tubercle, for the attachment of the external lateral ligament of the lower jaw ; and between the anterior and middle roots is an oval depression, forming part of the glenoid fossa (yAjyr?/, a socket), for the reception of the condyle of the lower jaw. This fossa is bounded, in front, by the eminentia articularis ; behind, by the vaginal process ; and, externally, by the auditory process and middle root of the zygoma ; and is divided into two parts by a narrow slit, the Glaserian fissure. The anterior part, formed by the squamous portion of the bone, is smooth, covered in the recent state with cartilage, and articulates with the condyle of the lower jaw. This part of the glenoid fossa is separated from the auditory process by a small tubercle, the post-glenoid process, the representative of a prominent tubercle which, in some of the mammalia, descends behind the condyle of the jaw, and prevents it being displaced backwards during mastication (Humphry). The posterior part of the glenoid fossa is formed chiefly by the vaginal process of the petrous portion, and lodges part of the parotid gland. The Glaserian fissure, which leads into the tympanum, lodges the processus gracilis of the malleus, and transmits the Laxator tympani muscle and the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary artery. The fissure (canal of Huguier), on the outer side of the Eustachian tube, in the retiring angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. The internal surface of the squamous portion (fig. 31) is concave, presents' numerous eminences and depressions for the convolutions of the cerebrum, and two well-marked grooves for the branches of the middle meningeal artery. Borders. The superior border is thin, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface, so as to overlap the lower border of the parietal bone, forming the squamous suture. The anterior inferior border is thick, serrated, and bevelled, alternately at the expense of the inner and outer surfaces, for articulation with the great wing of the sphenoid. The Mastoid Portion (patrroc, a nipple or teat) is situated at the posterior part of the bone ; its outer surface is rough, and perforated by numerous foramina : one of these, of large size, situated at the posterior border of the bone, is termed the mastoid foramen \ it transmits a vein to the lateral sinus and a small artery. The position and size of this foramen are very variable. It is not always present: some- times it is situated in the occipital bone, or in the suture between the temporal and the occipital. The mastoid portion is continued below into a conical projection, the mas- toid process, the size and form of which varies somewhat. This process serves for the