CARTILAGE. xlix by cells which communicate with each other, and by means of which the nutritious fluids are conveyed into the interior of the mass. The semi- lunar discs, according to this author, are wrongly denominated cartilages, since they yield no chondrine on boiling; and he appears to regard them as a modification of tendinous structure, which, however, agrees with the cartilages in the important particular of being non-vascular. See Virchow’s ‘ Cellular Pathology,’ by Chance, pp. 87-89. The connecting fibro-cartilages are interposed between the bony surfaces of those joints which admit of only slight mobility, as between the bodies of the vertebrte and the pubic symphyses; they form discs, which adhere closely to both of the opposed bones, and are composed of concentric rings of fibrous tissue, with cartilaginous. laminae interposed, the former tissue predominating towards the circumference, the latter towards the centre. The circumferential fibro-cartilages consist of a rim of fibro-cartilage, which surrounds the margin of some of the articular cavities, as the cotyloid cavity of the hip, and the glenoid cavity of the shoulder; they serve to deepen the articular surface and to protect the edges of the bone. The stratiform fibro-cartilages are those which form a thin layer in the osseous grooves, through -which the tendons of certain muscles glide. Fig-. XIII.—Yellow cartilage, ear of liorse. High power. The yellow or reticular cartilages found in the human body are the epiglottis, cornicula laryngis, and the cartilaginous parts of the ear (auricle and Eustachian tube). In this variety the cartilage cells lie in the meshes of a network of yellow elastic fibres, with a double outline, branching and anastomosing in a.ll directions. The fibres resemble those of the yellow elastic fibrous tissue, both in appearance and in being unaffected by acetic acid, and according to Rollett their continuity with the elastic fibres of the neighbouring cellular tissue admits of being demonstrated. The distinguishing feature of cartilage as to its chemical composition is that it yields on boiling a substance called chondrine, very similar to gelatine, but differing from it in not being pecipitated by tannin.