419 POSTERIOR TI13IAL. digital branches ; one runs along the innor side of tho great too, on its plantar c surface ; the other passes forwards along the first metatarsal space, and bifurcates for the supply of the adjacent sides of the great and second toes. Posterior Tibial Artery. (Pig. 232.) The posterior tibial is an artery of large size, which extends obliquely down- wards from the lower border of tho Popliteus muscle, along the tibial side of the leg, to the fossa between the innor ankle and the heel, where it divides beneath the origin of the Abductor pollicis, into the internal and external plantar arteries. At its origin it lies opposite the interval between the tibia and fibula; as it descends, it approaches the inner side of the leg, lying behind the tibia, and, in the lower paid of its course, is situated midway between the inner malleolus and the tuberosity of the os calcis. Eelations. It lies successively upon the Tibialis posticus, the Plexor longus digitorum, the tibia and the back part of the ankle-joint. It is covered by the intermuscular fascia, which separates it above from the Gastrocnemius and Soleus muscles. In the lower third, where it is more superficial, it is covered only by the integument and fascia, and runs parallel with the inner border of the tendo Achillis. It is accompanied by two veins, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies at first to the inner side of the artery, but soon crosses it, and is, in • the greater part of its course, on its outer side. Plan of the Relations of the Posterior Tibial Artery. Inner side. In front. Tibialis posticus. Flexor longus digitorum, Tibia. Ankle-joint. Outer side. Posterior tibial nerve, / Posterior j Posterior tibial nerve. upper third. 1 Tibial. lower two-thirds. Behind. Gastrocnemius. . r Soleus. Pfr ty yijrux-t HJxa-+A" Deep fascia and integument. Behind the Inner Ankle, the tendons and blood-vessels are arranged in the following order, from within outwards :—First, the tendons of the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus digitorum, lying in the same groove, behind the inner mal- leolus, the former being the most internal. External to these is the posterior tibial artery, having a vein on either side; and, still more externally, the posterior tibial nerve. About half an inch nearer the heel is the tendon of the Flexor longus pollicis. Peculiarities in Size. The posterior tibial is not unfrequently smaller than usual, or absent, its place being supplied by a large peroneal artery, which passes inwards at the lower end of the tibia, and either joins the small tibial artery, or continues alone to the sole of the foot. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the posterior tibial may be required in cases of wound of the sole of the foot, attended with great hasmorrhage, when the vessel ehould be tied at the inner ankle. In casos of wound of the posterior tibial, it will be necessary to enlarge the wound so as to expose the vessel at the wounded point, except- ing where the vessel is injured by a punctured wound from tho front of the leg. In cases of aneurism from wound of the artery low down, the vessel should be tied in the middle of the leg. But in aneurism of the posterior tibial high up, it would be better to tie the femoral artery. e r lo tie the posterior tibial artery at the angle, a semilunar incision should bo made through the integument, about two inches and a half in length, midway between the heel and inner ankle, or a little nearer the latter. The subcutaneous cellular membrane having been E e l