ARTICULATIONS. 192 The Synovial Membrane of the knee-joint is the largest and most extensive in the body. Commencing at the upper border of the patella, it forms a large cuU| de-sac beneath the Extensor tendon of the thigh : tin's is sometimes replaced by a synovial bursa interposed between the tendon and the front of the femur, which in some subjects communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint by an orifice of variable size. On each side of the patella, the synovial membrane extends beneath the aponeui’osis of the Vasti muscles, and more especially beneath that of the Vastus internus ; and, below the patella, it is separated from the anterior ligament by a considerable quantity of adipose tissue. In this situation it sends oil a triangular prolongation, containing a few ligamentous fibres, which extends from the anterior part of the joint below the patella, to the front of the intercoijdydoid notch. This fold has been termed the ligamentum mucosum. ’ The li a amenta,glaria consist of two fringe-like folds, which extend" fi'Ofli the Sides of the ligamenfumTmucosum, upwards and outwards, to the'sides of the patella. The synovial membrane iuvests the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and on the back part of the external one forms a cul-cTe-sac between the groove on its surface, and the tendon of the Popliteus ; it is continued to the articular surface of the tibia ; surrounds the crucial ligaments, and the inner surface of the ligaments which enclose the joint; lastly, it approaches the condyles of the femur, and from them is continued on to the lower part of the front of the shaft. The pouch of synovial membrane between the Extensor tendon and front of the femur is supported, during the movements of the knee, by a small muscle, the Subcruroeus, which is inserted into it. The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the anastomotic branch of the femoral, articular branches of the popliteal, and recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. The Nerves are derived from the obturator, anterior crural, and external and internal popliteal. Actions. The knee-joint allows of. movements of flexion and extension, and of ; slight rotation inwards and outwards. The complicated mechanism of this joint i renders it necessary to study each of these movements separately, pointing out incidentally the functions of each of the principal components of the joint. The tibia executes a rotatory movement during flexion around an imaginary axis drawn transversely through its upper end. This causes a change in the apposition of the tibia and femur. Thus, in extreme extension, it is the anterior portion of the tibia which is in contact with the femur; in the semiflexed position, its middle; in complete flexion, its posterior edge.* Also, during flexion the articular surface of the tibia, covered by the interarticular cartilages, glides backwards on the femur. The patella is attached by the inextensible ligamentum patellae to the tubercle of the tibia, and as ; the tibia glides backwards, the patella falls more and more into the intercondyloid notch of the femur. The ligamentum patellae is put on the stretch during flexion, as is also the posterior crucial ligament in extreme flexion. The other ligaments • are all relaxed by flexion of the joint, though the relaxation of the anterior crucial ligament is very trifling. In partial flexion of the knee before the ligamentum pate!Ice j comes upon the stretch, and while both crucial ligaments are somewhat relaxed, some j rotation of the joint is permitted. Flexion is only checked during life by the contact 1 of the leg with the thigh. I11 extension, the ligamentum patellce becomes relaxed, j and, in extreme extension, completely so, so as to allow free lateral movement to the patella, which then rests on the front of the condyles of the femur. rI he other ] ligaments are all on the stretch. When the limb has been brought into a straight line extension is checked, mainly by the tension of the posterior crucial ligament. The movements of rotation of which the knee is susceptible are permitted in the semiflexed condition by the partial relaxation of both crucial ligaments, as well as the lateral ligaments. Rotation inwards (or pronation of the leg) is checked by the anterior crucial ligament. The chief agent in effecting this movement is the • See Plate XLVII. in Humphry, on The Skeleton.