744 LITHOTOMY. this portion of the organ is found projecting into the rectum, between three and four inches from the margin of the anus, and may he easily perforated during life without injury to any important parts ; this portion of the bladder is, consequently 396.—A View of the Position of the Viscera at the Outlet of the Pelvis, Artery of Corpus Cavernosum. Dorsal Artery of D&ui's Cou’prr's frequently selected for the performance of the operation of tapping the bladder. If the finger is introduced into the bowel, the surgeon may, in some cases, learn the position, as well as the size and weight, of a calculus in the bladder; and in the operation for its removal, if, as is not unfrequently the case, it should be lodged behind an enlarged prostate, it may be displaced from its position by pressing upwards the base of the bladder from the rectum. Parts concerned in the Operation of Lithotomy. The triangular ligament must be replaced and the rectum drawn forwards so as to occupy its normal position. The student should then consider the position of the various parts in reference to the lateral operation of lithotomy. This operation is performed on the left side of the perinaeum, as it is most convenient for the right hand of the operator. A staff having been introduced into the bladder, the ofirst incision is commenced midway between the anus and the back of the scrotum ([i.e., in an orbinary adult perinaeum, about an inch and a half in front of the anus), a little on the left side of the raphe, and carried obliquely backwards and outwards to midway between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. The incision divides the integument and superficial fascia, the external haemorrhoidal vessels and nerves, and the superficial and transverse perinaeal vessels; if the fore-finger of the left hand is thrust upwards and forwards into the wound, pressing at the same time the rectum inwards and backwards, the staff may be felt in the membranous portion of the urethra. The finger is fixed upon the staff, and the structures covering it are divided with the point of the knife, which must be directed along tho groove towards the bladder, the edge of the knife being carried outwards and backwards, dividing in its course the membranous portion of the urethra, and part of the left lobe of the prostate gland, to the extant of about an inch. Tho knife is then