DEVELOPMENT OF THE ORGANS OF SENSE. This primitive ocular vesicle, derived from the cerebral mass, is in by a layer from the epidermic lamina of the blastoderm ; from the latt layer are derived the conjunctiva, the epithelium of the cornea, and the crystalline lens; while the cephalic layer gives origin to the vitreous body, the fibrous coat of the eye (sclerotic and cornea), the choroid and iris, and the retina. The lens is formed by a thickening of the epidermic layer, opposite to the primitive ocular vesicle, by which that vesicle is at first depressed, and then reversed in the manner indicated by the annexed figures; so that the cavity of the primitive ocular vesicle is finally obliterated. As this process takes place, a secondary cavity (secondary ocular vesicle) is formed between the rudimentary lens and the coats of the reversed primitive vesicle, and in this space the vitreous humour is secreted. Fig1. LVH.—Diagram of development of the lens. A B 0, Different stages of development, i, Epidermic layer. 2, Thickening of this layer. 3, Crystalline depression. 4, Primitive ocular vesicle, its anterior part pushed back by the crystalline depression. 5, Posterior part of the primitive ocular vesicle, forming the external layer of the secondary ocular vesicle. 6, Point of separation between the lens and the epidermic layer. 7, Cavity of the secondary ocular vesicle, occupied by the vitreous. The lens is at first a mere depression in the epidermic layer. When this is closed the lens becomes a vesicle, formed of epithelial cells, which grow and fill its cavity, becoming gradually transformed into fibres. It is at first surrounded by a vascular membrane—the vascular capsule of the lens—which is connected with the termination of the temporary artery (hyaloid) that forms the continuation of the central artery of the retina through the vitreous chamber. This vascular capsule of the crystalline lens forms the membrane pupillaris (described on p. 576), and also at- taches the borders of the iris to the capsule of the lens. It disappears about the seventh month. The sclerotic and cornea, except the epithelial layer of the latter, are formed from the outer layer of the reversed primitive ocular vesicle, the retina from the inner layer; the pigment of the choroid is also derived from the inner layer, its proper tissue from one of these layers, but which has not yet been determined. The cavity of the primitive ocular vesicle disappears as that of the optic nerve does. The eyelids are formed at the end of the third month, as small cutaneous folds, which come together in front of the globe and cohere. This union is broken up, and the eyelids separate before the end of foetal life. The lachrymal canal appears to result from the non-closure of a fissure which exists between the external nasal process and the maxillary process (p. cxiii.). Development nf the car.—The first rudiment of the ear appears about