large intestine. 629 The Large Intestine. The large intestine extends from tlio termination of the ileum to the anus. It is aboutTfive feet in length, being onc-fiftli of the whole extent of the intestinal 338.—Patch of Peyer’s Glands. 339.—.A portion of the above magnified. From the lower part of the Ileum. canal. It is largest at its commencement at the caecum, and gradually diminishes as far as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size, just above the anus. It differs from the small intestine in its greater size, its more fixed position, and its sacculated form. The large intestine, in its course, describes an arch, which surrounds the convolutions of the small intestine. It commences in ■ the rieht iliac fossa, in a dilated part, the caecum. It ascends through the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions to the under surface of the liver; passes t transversely across the abdomen, on the confines of the epigastric and umbilical .regions, to the left hypochondriac region ; descends through the left lumbar region • to the left iliac fossa, where it becomes convoluted, and forms the sigmoid flexure ; finally, it enters the pelvis, and descends along its posterior wall to the anus. 1 The large intestine is divided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The Caecum (coccus, blind) (fig. 338) is the large blind porch, or cul-de-sac, in which the large intestine commences. It is the most dilated part of the tube, measuring about two and a half inches, both in its vertical and transverse diameters. It is situated in the right iliac fossa, immediately behind the anterior abdominal wall, being retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and sides ; its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the iliac fascia. Occasionally, it is almost completely surrounded by peri- toneum, which forms a distinct fold, the meso-caecum, connecting its back part with the iliac fossa. When this fold exists the caecum obtains considerable Freedom of movement. Attached to its lower and back part is the appendix /ermiformis, a long, narrow, wflrm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened caecum found in all the mammalia, except the ourang-outang and wombat. The appendix varies from three to six inches in length, its avei’age diameter being 1 about equal to that of a goose-quill. It is usually directed upwards and inwards oehind the caecum, coiled upon itself, and terminates in a blunt point, being retained n its position by a fold of peritoneum, which sometimes forms a mesentery for it. [ts canal is small, and communicates with the caecum by an orifice, which is sorac- ,imes guarded with an incomplete valvo. Its coats are thick, and its mucous lining I ’urnished with a large number of solitary glands. lleo-Ccecal Valve. The lower end of the ileum tei’minates at the inner and I )ack part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the caecum with the