689 SUPRARENAL CAPSULE. unito into arches round tho bases of tho medullary cones. After receiving the venous plexus from, tho tubular portion, they accompany the branches of the arteries of the sinus of the kidney, where they finally unite to form a single vein, which terminates in the inferior vena cava. The lymphatics of the kidney consist of a superficial and deep set; they acoom-, pany the blood-vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are dorived from the renal plexus, which is formed by filaments from the solar plexus and lesser splanchnic nerve ; they accompany the branches of the arteries. From the renal plexus, some filaments pass to tho spermatic plexus and ureter. The Ureters. The Ureter is the excretory duct of the kidney. It is a cylindrical mem- branous tube, from sixteen to eighteen inches in length, and of the diameter of a .goose-quill. It is placed at the back part of the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, ;;he dilated upper end being accessible behind the peritoneum about the third urnbar transverse process on the left and the fourth on the right side (see fig. 341, r). 631), and extends obliquely downwards and inwards, from the lower part of t he pelvis of the kidney, enters the cavity of the pelvis, and then passes downwards, : orwards, and inwards, to the base of the bladder, into which it opens by a con- •: tricted orifice, after passing obliquely, for nearly an inch, between its muscular .:,nd mucous coats. Relations. In its course from above downwards, it rests upon the Psoas muscle, being covered by the peritoneum, and crossed in front very obliquely by he spermatic vessels ; the right ureter lying close to the outer side of the inferior - ena cava. Opposite the sacrum, it crosses the common or the external iliac ertery, lying behind the ileum on the right side, and the sigmoid flexure of the olon on the left. In the pelvis, it enters the posterior false ligament of the >i ladder, below the obliterated hypogastric artery ; the vas deferens, in the male, assing between it and the bladder. In the female, the ureter passes along the .ides of the cervix uteri and upper part of the vagina. At the base of the Madder, it is situated about two inches from its fellow ; lying, in the male, about j a inch and a half ’ behind the base of the prostate, at the posterior angle of the rrigone. Structure. The ureter is composed of three coats: fibrous, muscular, and MUCOUS. The fibrous coat is continuous with that surrounding the pelvis of the kidney. The mn.Lscular coat consists of two layers of longitudinal fibres, and anintermediate •ansverse layer. The mucous coat is smooth, and presents a few longitudinal folds, which become i'Taced by distension. It is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder elow; whilst, above, it is prolonged over the papilla) into the tubuli uriniferi. he epithelial cells lining it are spheroidal. The arteries supplying the ureter arc branches of the renal, spermatic, internal >ac, and inferior vesical. The nerves are derived from the inferior mesenteric, spermatic, and hypogastric t exuscs. Suprarenal Capsules. The suprarenal capsules are usually classified, together with tho spleen, thymus id thyroid, under the head of ‘ ductless glands,’ as they have no excretory duct, hey aro two small flattened glandular bodies, of a yellowish colour, situated at c back part of the abdomen, behind the peritoneum, and immediately in front the upper end of either kidney ; hence their name. The right one is somewhat iangular in shape, bearing a resemblance to a cocked hat; the left is more semi- nar, and usually larger and higher than the right. They vary in size indifferent dividuals, being sometimes so small as to bo scarcely detected; their usual size Y Y