622 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 1 lie stomach is held in position by the lesser omentum, which oxtonds from the transverse fissure of the liver to its lesser curvature, and by a fold of peritoneum, which passes from the Diaphragm on to the oesophageal end of the stomach, the gastro-phenic ligament; this constitutes the most fixed point of the stomach, 333- The Mucous Membrane of the Stomach and Duodenum with the Bile Ducts. Urf/atlo ducts whilst the pyloric end and greater curvature are the most moveable parts : hence when the stomach becomes greatly distended, the greater curvature is directed forwards, whilst the anterior and posterior surfaces are directed, the former upwards, and the latter downwards. Alterations in Position.-^There is no organ in the body the position and connections of which present such frequent alterations as the stomach. During inspiration, it is displaced downwards by the descent of the Diaphragm, and elevated by the pressure of the abdominal muscles during expiration. Its position in relation to the surrounding viscera is also changed, according to the empty or distended state of the organ. When empty, it occupies only a small part of the left hypochondriac region, the spleen lying behind it; the left lobe of the liver covers it in front, and the under surface of the heart rests upon it above, and in front; being separated from it by the left lobe of the liver, besides the diaphragm and pericardium. This close relation between the stomach and the heart explains the fact that, in gastralgia, the pain is generally referred to the heart, and is often accompanied by palpitation and inter- mission of the pulse. When the stomach is distended the Diaphragm is forced upwards, con- tracting the cavity of the chest; hence the dyspnoea complained of, from inspiration being impeded. The heart is also displaced upwards; hence the oppression in this region, ana the palpitation experienced in extreme distension of the stomach. Pressure from without, as from tight lacing, pushes the stomach down towards the pelvis. In disease, also, the position and connections of the organs may be greatly changed, from the accumulation of fluid in the chest or abdomen, or from alteration in size of any of the surrounding viscera.