673 TRACHEA. The first cartilage is broader than the rest, and sometimes divided at one end ; it is connected by fibrous membrane with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, with which, or with the succeeding cartilage, it is sometimes blended. The last cartilage is thick and broad in the middle, in consequenco of its lower border bein«- prolonged downwards, and, at the same time, curved backwards, at the point of bifurcation of the trachea. It terminates on each side in an imper- fect rin^ which encloses the commencement of the bronchi. The cartilage above the last is somewhat broader than the rest at its centre. Two or more of the cartilages often unite, partially or completely, and are sometimes bifurcated at their extremities. They are highly elastic, and seldom ossify, even in advanced life. In the rio-ht bronchus, the cartilages vary in number from six to eight; in the left, from nine to twelve. They are shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. The Muscular Fibres are disposed in two layers, longitudinal and transverse. The longitudinal fibres are the most external, and arise by minute tendons from the termination of the tracheal cartilages, and from the fibrous membrane. The transverse fibres (trachealis muscle, Todd and Bowman), the most internal, form a thin layer, which extends transversely between the ends of the cartilages, iat the posterior part of the trachea. The muscular fibres are of the unstriped . variety. The jElastic Fibres are situated beneath the mucous membrane, enclosing the .'entire cylinder of the trachea; they are most abundant at its posterior part, where :hey are collected into longitudinal bundles. The Mucous Membrane lining the tube is covered with columnar ciliated epi- thelium. It is continuous above with that of the larynx, and below with that of .he lungs. The Tracheal Glands are found in great abundance at the posterior part of he trachea. They are small, flattened, ovoid bodies, placed between the fibrous ncl muscular coats, each furnished with an excretory duct, which opens on the urface of the mucous membrane. Some glands of smaller size are also found at he sides of the trachea, between the layers of fibrous tissue connecting the rings, :nd others immediately beneath the mucous coat. The secretion from these glands rves to lubricate the inner surface of the trachea. Vessels and Nerves. The trachea is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid rteries. The veins terminate in the thyroid venous plexus. The nerves are ?rived from the pneumogastric and its recurrent branches, and from the /mpathetic. Surgical Anatomy. The air-passage may be opened in three different situations : through e crico-thyroid membrane (larynyotomy), through the cricoid cartilage, and upper ring of e trachea (laryngo-tracheotomy), or through the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid and (tracheotomy). The student should, therefore, carefully consider the relative anatomy the air-tube in each of these situations. Beneath the integument of the laryngo-tracheal region, on either side of the median line, e the two anterior j ugular veins. Their size and position vary ; there is nearly always one, d frequently two: at the lower part of the neck they diverge, passing beneath the Sterno- istoid muscles, and are frequently connected by a transverse communicating branch. These ins should, if possible, always be avoided in any operation on the larynx or trachea. If cut rough, considerable haemorrhage occurs. Beneath the cervical fascia are the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the conti- ous edges of the former being near the median line; and beneath these muscles the lowing parts are met with, from above downwards: the thyroid cartilage, the crico- /roid membrane, the cricoid cartilage, the trachea, and the isthmus of the thyroid nd. l’he crico-thyroid space is very superficial, and may be easily felt beneath the skin as a session, about an inch below the pomum Adami; it is crossed transversely by a small ery, the crico-thyroid, the division of which is seldom accompanied by any troublesome inorrhage. I he isthmus of the thyroid gland usually crosses the second and third rings of the trachea; )ve it is found a large transverse communicating branch between the superior thyroid ns, and the isthmus is covered by a venous plexus, formed between the thyroid veins, of losite sides. On the sides of the thyroid gland, and below it, the veins converge to a gle median vessel, or to two trunks which descend along the median line of the (rout of X X !|