3*8 MUSCLES AND FASCI/E. 195. -Muscles of the Sole of the Foot. Second Layer. Relations. By its superficial surface, -with tlie plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the Flexor accessorius, the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, the long plantar ligament, and Peroneus longus. On its irmer side are the external plantar vessels and nerve, and it is separated from the Flexor brevis digitorum by a vertical septum of fascia. Dissection. The muscles of the superficial layer should be divided at their origin by inserting the knife beneath each, and cutting obliquely backwards, so as to detach them from the bone ; they should then be drawn forwards, in order to expose the second layer, but not cut away at their insertion. T he two layers are separated by a thin membrane, the deep plantar fascia, on the removal of which is seen the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, the Flexor acces- sorius, the Flexor longus pollicis, and the Lumbricales. The long flexor tendons cross each other at an acute angle, the Flexor longus pollicis running along the inner side of the foot, on a plane superior to that of the Flexor longus digitorum, the direc- tion of which is obliquely outwards. Second Layer. Flexor Accessorius. Lumbricales. The Flexor Accessorius arises by two beads : the inner or larger, which is muscular, being attached to the inner concave surface of the os calcis, and to the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament; the outer head, flat and tendinous, to the under surface of the os calcis, in front of its outer tubercle, and to the long plantar ligament: the two portions join at an acute angle, and are in- serted into the outer margin and upper and under surfaces of the tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum, forming a kind of groove, in which the tendon is lodged. It is supplied by the ex- ternal plantar nerve. Relations. By its superficial sur- face, with the muscles of the super- ficial layer, from which it is separated by the external plantar vessels and nerves. By its deep surface, with the os calcis and long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. The Lumbricales are four small muscles, accessory to the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum : they arise froni the tendons of the long flexor, as far back as their angle of division, each arising from two tendons, except the internal one. Each muscle terminates in a tendon, which passes forwards on the inner side of each of the lesser toes, and is inserted into the expansion of the long extensor and base of the second phalanx of the corresponding toe. The two internal Lumbricales muscles are supplied by the internal, aud the two external by the external plantar nerve. Dissection. The flexor tendons should be divided at the back part of the foot, and the Flexor accessorius at its origin, aud drawn forwards, in order to expose the third layer.