BLADDER 693 The lateral ligaments, broador and thinner than the proooding, are attached to the lateral parts of the prostate, and to the sides of the baso of the bladder. The urachus is the fibro-muscular cord already mentioned, extending between the summit of the bladder and the umbilicus. It is broad below, at its attachment to the bladder, and becomes narrower as it ascends. The false ligaments of the bladder are, two posterior, two lateral, and one • superior. The hvo posterior pass forwards, in tho malo, from the sides of the rectum ; in the female, from tho sides of the uretus, to the posterior and lateral aspect of the bladder : they form the lateral boundaries of the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and contain the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and tho ureters, beside vessels and nerves. Tho hvo lateral ligaments are reflections of tho peritoneum, from the iliac fossae to the sides of the bladder. The superior ligament is the prominent fold of peritoneum extending from the 'Summit of the bladder to the umbilicus. It covers the urachus, and the obliterated '.hypogastric arteries. Structure. The bladder is composed of four coats: a serous, a muscular, a c cellular, and a mucous coat. The sm’ous coat is partial, and derived from the peritoneum. It invests tho ; posterior surface, from opposite the termination of the two ureters to its summit, and is reflected from this point and from the sides, on to the abdominal and pelvic walls. The muscular coat consists of two layers of unstriped muscular fibre, an >xternal layer, composed of longitudinal fibres, and an internal layer of circular fibres. The longitudinal fibres are most distinct on the anterior and posterior surfaces >f the organ. They arise in front, from the anterior ligaments of the bladder, :rom the neck of the bladder, and, in the male, from the adjacent portion of the orostate gland. They spread out, and form a plexiform mesh, on the anterior urface of the bladder, being continued over the posterior surface, and base of the organ to the neck, where they are inserted into the prostate, in the male, and into he vagina in the female. Other longitudinal fibres arise, in the male, from the sides of the prostate, and jpread out upon the sides of bladder, intersecting with one another. The circular fibres are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of 1 he organ ; but, towards its lower part, round the cervix and commencement of tho ; irethra, they are disposed as a thick circular layer, forming the sphincter vesica;, v vhich is continuous with the muscular fibres of the prostate gland. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, •onverge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted, by means of a ibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They are the muscles of the reters, described by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that, during the contraction of tho ladder, they served to retain tho oblique direction of the ureters, and so prevent le reflux of urine into them. J. B. Pettigrew gives the following results at which he has arrived by his exquisite dis- ictions of the muscular fibres of the bladder and prostate (Proc. JRoyal Soc. xv. 244). Tho : mscular fibres of the bladder are arranged spirally, forming figure-of-8 loops, the superfic ial tore longitudinal or drawn out, the deeper more circular or flattened. They are in four nts—an anterior and posterior, and a right and left lateral; the latter accessory and less illy developed. The fibres are arranged in seven strata, three external, three internal, and middle, pursuing well-marked directions in each. The external and internal are the most blique; their obliquity diminishes towards the central stratum, which is formed by the lending of their terminal or transverse portions. A close analogy is thus traced between le disposition of the muscular fibres of the bladder and those of the heart, as described by ettigrew, in Philos. Trans. 1864; and he hints at similar structure in the stomach and terus. The cellular coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together tho iiiscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter.