518 CRANIAL NERVES. ) MvUc itVWWVW ' Sterno-mastoid. It pierces that muscle, and passes obliquely across the sub- occipital triangle, to terminate in the deep surface of the Trapezius. This nerve gives several branches to the Sterno-mastoid during its passage through it, and joins in its substance with branches from the third cervical. In the occipital triangle it joins with the second and third cervical nerves, and assists in the for- mation of the cervical plexus, and occasionally of the great auricular nerve. On the front of the Trapezius, it is reinforced by branches from the third, fourth, and fifth cervical nerves, joins with the posterior branches of the spinal nerves, and is distributed to the Trapezius, some filaments ascending and others descending in the substance of the muscle as far as its inferior anHe. O The Pneumogastric Nerve ([nervus veujus, or par vagnni), one of the three divisions of the eighth pair, has a more extensive distribution than any of the other cranial nerves, passing through the neck and thorax to the upper part of the abdomen. It is composed of both motor and sensitive filaments. It supplies the organs of voice and respiration with motor and sensitive fibres ; and the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and heart with motor influence. Its superficial origin is by eight or ten filaments from the lateral tract immediately behind the olivary body and below the glosso-pharyngeal; its fibres may, however, be traced deeply through the fasciculi of the medulla, to terminate in a grey nucleus near the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The filaments become united, and form a flat cord, which passes outwards across the flocculus to the jugular foramen, through which it emerges from the cranium. In passing through this opening, the pneumogastric accompanies the spinal accessory, being contained in the same sheath of dura mater with it, a membranous septum separating it from the glosso-pharyngeal, which lies in front. The nerve in this situation presents a well-marked ganglionic enlargement, which is called ganglion jugulare, or the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric : to it the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. After the exit of the nerve from the jugular foramen, a second gangliform swelling is formed upon it, called the ganglion inferius, or the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve; below which it is again joined by filaments from the accessory nerve. The nerve passes vertically down the neck within the sl^ath^oftl^^^rotid ^e^els, lying between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein^as far as the thyroid cartilage, and then between the same vein and the common carotid to the root of the neck. Here the course of the nerve becomes different on the two sides of the body. ^ jfi- On the right side, the nerve passes across^the subclavian artery between it and the subclavian vein, and descends by the side of the trachea to the back part of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in a plexiform network (posterior pulmonary), from the lower part of which two cords descend upon the oesophagus, on which they divide, forming, with branches from the opposite nerve, the oesophageal plexus; below, these branches are collected into a single cord, Avhich runs along the back part of the oesophagus, enters the abdomen, and is distributed to the posterior surface of the stomach, joining the left side of the cceliac plexus, and the splenic plexus. On the left side, the pneumogastri c nerve enters the chest between the' left/ cryu J ^ . 0 . . . . 4x< Acarotid and subclavian arteries, behind the left innominate vein. It crosses tile arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the left lung and along the anterior surface of the oesophagus to the stomach, distributing branches over its anterior surface, some extending over the great mil-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. Filaments from these latter branches enter the gasti’o-hepatic omentum, and join the left hepatic plexus. The ganglion of the root is of a greyish colour, circular in form, about two lines in diameter, and resembles the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Connecting branches. To this ganglion the accessory accessory nerve is connected by several delicate filaments; portion of the spinal it also has an anasto-