GENERAL ANATOMY. lx x via capsules are from thirty to sixty in number, the outer being more sepa- rated from each other, as if by a clear lluid, while the inner are closely applied together. Schultze calls attention to the striking resemblance in all essential particulars between these corpuscles and Krause’s end-bulbs above described.* In the special organs the nerves end in various ways, which hitherto are not perfectly known. Fig. XXX.—A, Side view of a papilla of the hand, a, cortical layer; b, tactile cor- puscle, with transverse nuclei; c, small nerve of the papilla, with neurilemma ; cl, its two nervous fibres running with spiral coils around the tactile corpuscle ; e, ap- parent termination of one of these fibres, n, A tactile papilla seen from above, so as to show its transverse section, a, cortical layer; b, nerve-fibre; c, outer layer of the tactile body, with nuclei; d, clear interior substance. From the human subject, treated with acetic acid. Magnified 350 times. Fig. XXXT.—Pacinian corpuscle with its system of capsules and central cavity, a, arterial twig, ending in capillaries, which form loops in some of the intercapsular spaces, and one penetrates to the central capsule ; b, the fibrous tissue of the stalk pro- longed from the neurilemma; n, nerve-tube advancing to tbe central capsule, there losiug its white sub- stance, and stretching along the axis to the opposite end, where it is fixed by a tubercular enlargement. Hoyer and Cohnheim have described the nerves of the cornea as tei- ininating in primitive fibrillse, which run between the cells foiming the pavement-epithelium of that membrane, and end on its fnt smface. This, however, is doubted by Hulke,t vVho has only succeeded in tracing them as far as the middle tier of the epithelial cells. Schultze discovers in the olfactory mucous membrane, lying between the tells of its epithelium, spindle-shaped cells, each possessing a cential and t Lectoe/onthe'Ristokgyof the Eye, at the Royal Ccllegcof Surgeons, June R69.