491 CEREBELLUM. Tlio under surface of the cerebellum (fig. 268) is subdivided into two lateral hemispheres by a depression, the valley, which extends from before backwards in the middle line. The lateral hemispheres are lodged in the inferior occipital fossae ; the median depression, or valley, receives tho back part of the medulla oblongata, is broader in the centi*e than at either extremity, and has, projecting from its floor, part of tho median lobe of the cerebellum, called tho inferior vermiform process. Tho parts entering into the composition of this body are, from behind forwards, the commissura brevis, situated in the incisura posterior; in front of this, a laminated conical projection, the pyramid ; more anteriorly, a larger eminence, tho uvula, which is placed between the two rounded lobes which occupy the sides of tho valley, the amygdalae or tonsils, and is connected with them by a com- missure of grey matter, indented on the surface, called the furrowed band. In front of the uvula is the nodule; it is the anterior pointed termination of the inferior vermiform process, and projects into the cavity of the fourth ventricle; it has been named by Malacarne the laminated tubercle. On each side of the nodule is a thin layer of white substance, attached externally to the flocculus, and 268.—Under Surface of the Cerebellum. internally to the nodule ; these form together the posterior medullary velum, or commissure of the flocculus. It is usually covered in and concealed by the amygdalm, and cannot be seen until they are drawn aside. This band is of a semilunar form on each side, its anterior margin being free and concave, its posterior attached just in front of the furrowed band. Between it and the nodulus and uvula behind, is a deep fossa, called the swallow's nest (nidus hirundinis). Lobes of the cerebellum. Each hemisphere is divided into an upper and a lower portion by the great horizontal fissure, which commences in front at the pons, and passes horizontally round the free margin of either hemisphere, backwards to the middle line. From this primary fissure numerous secondary fissures proceed, which separate the cerebellum into lobes. Upon tho upper surface of either hemisphere there arc two lobes, separated from each other by a fissure, These are the anterior or square lobe, which extends as far back as the posterior edge of the vermiform process, and the posterior or semilunar lobe, which passes from the termination of the preceding to the gi’cat horizontal fissure. Upon the under surface of either hemisphere there arc five lobes, separated su'c' 5 these are from before backwards ; tho.[flocculus or sub-peduncular lobe, a prominent tuft, situated behind and below the middle peduncle of the cerebellum; its surface is composed of grey matter, subdivided into a few small lamina?: it is sometimes called the pneumo gastric lobule, from being situated behind the pneumo- gastrio nerve. The amygdala or tonsil is situated on either side of the great median