SUPERFICIAL FASCIA. 739 In rapture of the anterior portion of the urethra, accompanied by extravasation of urine, the fluid makes its way forwards, beneath this fascia, into the areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, and anterior and lateral portions of the abdomen ; it rarely extends into the areolar tissue on the inner side of the thighs, or backwards around the anus. This limitation of the extravasated fluid to the parts above- named is easy of explanation, when the attachments of the deep layer of the .03—The rerinteum. The Integument and Superficial Layer of Superficial Fascia reflected. ■superficial fascia are considered. When this fascia is removed the muscles con- nected with the penis and urethra will be exposed ; these are, in the middle line, ' the Accelerator urinse; on each side, the Erector penis, and behind the Trans- versus perinasi. The Accelerator urinoe is placed in the middle line of the perinseum, immedi- ately in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical halves, united along j the median line by a tendinous raphe. It arises from the central tendon of the ! perinaeum, and from the median raphe in front. From this point its fibres diverge 1 like the plumes of a pen ; the most posterior form a thin layer, which are dost on 'the anterior surface of the triangular ligament ; the middle fibres encircle the bulb and adjacent part of the corpus spongiosum, and join with the fibres of the oppo- site side, on the upper part of the corpus spongiosum, in a strong aponeurosis ; the anterior fibres, the longest and most distinct, spread out over the sides of the cor- pus cavernosum, to be inserted partly into that body, anterior to the Erector penis ; partly terminating in a tendinous expansion, which covers the dorsal vessels of I the penis. The latter fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudinally, I and dissecting it outwards from the surface of the urethra. Actiov,. This muscle may serve to accelerate the flow of the urine or semen along the canal of the urethra. The middle fibres are supposed, by Krause, to assist in the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the ei’ectile tissue of the bulb. The anterior fibres, according to Tyrrel, also contribute to the 3 n 2