37i BRACHIAL. ixillary border of the scapula, and enters the infra spinous fossa, where it anasto- moses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries; and a third, or median branch, is continued along the axillary border of the scapula, between ;he Teres major and minor, and, at the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the jone, anastomoses with the posterior scapular. The cw'cumflex a/rteries wind round the neck-of the humerus. The posterior cir- cumflex (lig. 216), the larger of the two, arises from the back part of the axillary, opposite the lower border of the Subscapularis muscle, and, passing backwards with the circumflex veins and nerve, through the quadrangular space bounded by the Teres major and minor, the scapular head of the Triceps and the humerus, winds round the neck of that bone, and is distributed to the Deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex, suprascapular and acro- mial thoracic arteries. The anterior citcwnflex (figs. 216, 217), considerably smaller 'ban the preceding, ai’ises just below that vessel, from the outer side of the axillary artery. It passes horizontally outwards, beneath the Coraeo-brachialis and short head of the Biceps, lying upon the fore part of the neck of the humerus, and, on reaching the bicipital groove, gives off an ascending branch, which passes upwards along the groove, to sup- 2 i8.-The Surgical Anatomy of the Brachial Artery. ply tbe head of the bone and the shoulder-joint. The trunk of the vessel is then continued outwards beneath the Deltoid, which it sup- plies, and anastomoses with the posterior circumflex, add acromial thoracic arteries. IjttmuiC CuLi Jtxotis Nc r Muse Ur Lo - Spiral New/c f Superior ' Frofu-iuia, ertof Profunda, iiutitomo tic it, Mac/itoi Beachial Aeteky. (Fig. 218.) The Brachial Artery commences at the lower margin of the tendon of the Teres major, and passing down the inner and anterior aspect of the arm, terminates about half an inch below the bend of the elbow, where it divides into the radial and ulnar arteries* The direction of this vessel is marked by a line drawn from the outer side of the axillary space between the folds of the axilla, to a point midway between the con- dyles of the humerus, which cor- responds to the depression along the inner border of the Coraco- braChialis add Biceps muscles. In the upper part of its course, the artery lies internal to the humerus ; but below, it is in front of that bone. Halations. This artery is super- ficial throughout its entire extent, being covered, in front, by the in- tegument, the superficial and deep fascia; the bicipital fascia separates it opposite the elbow from the me- dian basilic vein ; the median nerve Crosses it at its middle; and tho basilic vein lies in tho line of tho