MUSCULAR TISSUE. Ixiii of ilic membrane takes up the contraction. This peculiarity of action is most strongly marked in the intestines, constituting their vermicular motion. In chemical composition, the muscular fibres of both forms consist mainly of a substance (syntonm) nearly identical with the fibrine of the blood; but, unlike the latter, not dissolved by nitrate of potash. Muscle after death exhibits an acid reaction; but this appears to be due to post-mortem changes. The capillaries of muscle are very abundant, and form a series of rectangular areolae, the branches, which run longitudinally between the muscular fibies, being united at short intervals by transverse anasto- mosing branches. Nerves are profusely distributed to the muscular tissue, more especially to the voluntary muscles. The mode of their termination will be described on a subsequent page. The distribution and the mode of origin of the lymphatic vessels of muscle has not yet been ascertained. The muscles during life, and for some time after death, respond to the appropriate stimulus by contracting in the manner peculiar to the class to which they belong. Thus, for some time after a limb has been amputated, its muscles can be set in motion by scratching, pinching, or galvanising them; and even after the irritability of the muscular tissue has been exhausted by the prolonged suspension of the circulation, it can be at first temporarily restored by injecting fresh arterial blood through 1 (Brown—;Sequard). The time at which muscular irritability ceases a.er etlth depends on the vitality of the subject; thus it ceases in birds, w lose ciiculation and vital heat are of a very high degree, sooner than in man and quadrupeds; in these sooner than in fishes, &c. Dr. Sharpey Fig. XXI.—Non-striated ele- mentary fibres from the hu- man colon, a, Treated with acetic acid, showing the corpuscles, b, Fragment of a detached fibre not touched with acid. Fig. XXII.—Muscular fibre-cells from human arteries, i, from the pop- liteal artery; a, without; b, with acetic acid. 2, From a branch of the anterior tibial; a, nuclei of the fibres. Magnified 350 times. acetic acid.