75 STERNUM. The Greater Cornua project backwards from the lateral surfaces of the body ; they are flattened from above downwards, diminish in size from before backwards, and terminate posteriorly in a tubercle for the attachment of the thyro-hyokl ligament. Their outer surface gives attachment to the Hyo-glossus ; their upper border, to the Middle constrictor of the pharynx ; their lower border, to part of the Thyro-hyoid muscle. The Lesser Cornua are two small conical-shaped eminences, attached by their bases to the angles of junction between the body and greater cornua, and giving attachment by their apices to the stylo-hyoid ligaments. In youth, the cornua are connected to the body by cartilaginous surfaces, and held together by ligaments; in middle life, the body and greater cornua usually become joined; and in old age, all the segments are united together, forming a single bone. Development. By five centres: one for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the body and greater cornua towards the end of foetal life, those of the cornua first appearing. Ossification of the lesser cornua com- mences some months after birth. Attachment of Muscles. Sterno-hyoid, Thyro-hyoid, Omo-hyoid, aponeurosis of the Digastricus, Stylo-hyoid, Mylo-hyoid, Genio-hyoid, Genio-hyo-glossus, Hyo-glossus, Middle Constrictor of the pharynx, and occasionally a few fibres of the Lingualis. It also gives attachment to the thyro-hyoidean membrane, and the stylo-hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments. THE THORAX. The Thorax, or chest, is an osseo-cartilaginous cage, intended to contain and protect the principal organs of respiration and circulation. It is the largest of the three cavities connected with the spine, and is formed by the sternum and costal cartilages in front, the twelve ribs on each side, and the bodies of the dorsal vertebras behind. The Sternum. The Sternum (figs. 69, 70) is a flat narrow bone, situated in the median line of the front of the chest, and consisting, in the adult, of three portions. It has been likened to an ancient sword : the upper piece, representing the handle, is termed the manubrium 5 the middle and largest piece, which represents the chief part of the blade, is termed the gladiolus ; and the inferior piece, which is likened to the point of the sword, is termed the ensiform or xiphoid appendix. In its natural position, its inclination is oblique from above, downwards, and forwards. It is flattened in front, concave behind, broad above, becoming narrowed at the point where the first and second pieces are connected; after which it again widens a little, and is pointed at its extremity. Its average length in the adult is six inches, being rather longer in the male than in the female. The First Piece of the sternum, or manubrium, is of a somewhat triangular form, broad and thick above, narrow below at its junction with the middle piece. Its anterior surface, convex from side to side, concave from above downwards, is smooth, and affords attachment on each side to the Pectorails major and sternal origin of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle. In well-marked bones, the ridges limiting the attachment of these muscles are very distinct. Its posterior surface, concave and smooth, affords attachment on each side to the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The superior border, the thickest, presents at its centre the interclavicular notch ; and on each side, an oval articular surface, directed upwards, backwards, and outwards, for articulation with the sternal end of the clavicle. The inferior border presents an oval rough surface, covered in the recent state with a thin layer of cartilage, for articulation with the second portion of the bone. The lateral borders are marked above by an articular depression for the first costal cai’tilage, and below by a small facet, which, with a similar facet on the upper angle of the middle portion of the bone, forms a notch for the