ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6a8 with nuclear corpuscles and fat globules in their interstices, enclosed in a thin prolongation of basement membrane covered by a single layer of columnar epi- thelium, the particles of winch arc arranged layer of organic muscular fibro has been described forming a thin hollow cone round the central lacteal. It is possible that this assists in the propulsion of the chyle along tho vessel. The mode of origin of the lacteals within the villi is unknown. The simple follicles, or crypts of Liebcr- kiihn, are found in considerable numbers over every part of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They consist of minute tubular depressions of tho mucous membrane, arranged perpendicularly to tho surface, upon which they open by small circular apertures. They may be seen with the aid of a lens, their orifices appearing as minute dots, scattered between the villi. Their walls are thin, consisting of a layer of basement membrane, lined by cylindrical epithelium, and covered on their exterior by capillary vessels. Their contents vary, even in health, and the purpose served by their secretion is still very doubtful. The duodenal, or Brunner’s glands, are limited to the duodenum and com- mencement of the jejunum. They are small, flattened, granular bodies, imbedded in the submucous areolar tissue, and open upon the surface of the mucous mem- brane by minute excretory ducts. They are most numerous and largest near the pylorus. They may be compared to the elementary lobules of a salivary gland spread out over a broad surface, instead of being collected in a mass. In structure they resemble the pancreas. The solitary glands (glandules solitice) are found scattered throughout the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but are most numerous in the lower part in the ileum. They are small, round, whitish bodies, from half a line to a line in diameter, consisting of a closed saccular cavity, having no excretory duct, and containing an opaque white secretion. Their free surface is covered with villi, and each gland is surrounded Lieberkiihn. Their use is not known. Peyer's glands may be regarded as aggregations of solitary glands, forming circular or oval patches from twenty to thirty in number, and varying in length from half an inch to four inches. They are largest and most numerous in the ileum. In the lower part of the jejunum they are small, of a circular form and few in number. They are occasionally seen in the duodenum. They are placed length- wise in the intestine, covering the portion of the tube most distant from the attach- ment of the mesentery. Each patch is formed of a group of small, round, whitish vesicles, covered with mucous membrane. Each vesicle consists of a moderately thick external capsule, having no excretory duct, and containing an opaque white secretion. Each is surrounded by a zone, or wreath of simple follicles, and the interspaces between them are covered with villi. These vesicles are usually closed ; but it is supposed they open at intervals to discharge the secretion contained within them. The mucous and submucous coats of the intestine are intimately adherent, and highly vascular, opposite the Peyerian glands. Their use is not known. They are largest and most developed during the diges- tive process. by openings like those of the follicles of perpendicular to the surface. A 337-—Two Villi magnified. Jthlth dial .ffif '