VESICULAR SEMINALES. 70S Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and sometimes it be- comes dilated towards its extremity: more commonly, it retains the same diameter throughout. Its structure is similar to that of the vas deferens. Occasionally, it ; is found unconnected with the epididymis. The Fas Deferens, the excretory duct of the testis, is the continuation of the epididymis. Commencing at the lower part of the globus minor, it ascends along the posterior and inner side of the testis and epididymis, and along the back part ! of the spermatic cord, through the spermatic canal to the internal abdominal nng. From the ring it descends into the pelvis, crossing the external iliac vessels, and curves round the outer side of the epigastric artery : at the side of .he bladder, it arches backwards and downwards to its base, crossing outside the )bliterated hypogastric artery, and to the inner side of the ureter. At the base of ; he bladder, it lies between that viscus and the rectum, running along the inner !oorder of the vesicula semmalis. In this situation it becomes enlarged and sac- •ulated ; and, becoming narrowed, at the base of the prostate, unites with the duct “ie vesicula semmalis to form the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens presents a aardand cord-like sensation to the fingers ; it is about two feet in length, of cylin- drical form, and about a line and a quarter in diameter, Its walls are of extreme tensity and thickness, measuring one-third of a line ; and its canal is extremely email, measuring about half a line. J 379- Ease of the Bladder, with the Vasa Defercntia and Vesiculie Seruinales. n structure, the vas deferens consists of three coats : 1. An external, or cellular ’t; 2. A muscular coat, which is thick, dense, elastic, and consists of two lono-i inal, and an intermediate circular layer of muscular fibres; 3. An internal or cous coat which is pale, and arranged in longitudinal folds; its epithelial enng is of the columnar variety. 1 VESrCUL^E Semjnales. 'baiM*??" V° 1(*nlated “Canons pouches, placed between •eUr, Anrle fl 1F i , , V’ Se™ng “ r08er™™ for the semen, and amblalTin ,, tlmt of the nicies. Each sac is somewhat , , e broad end being directed backwards, and the narrow end V i°Wfrfi3 ,? I’roftate. They measure about two and a half inches in ’ ’ a 0U VC lncs ln breadth, and from two or three lines in thickness Vj Z