745 PARTS CONCERNED IN LITHOTOMY. withdrawn, and the fore-finger of the left hand passed along tho staff into the bladder; the staff having been withdrawn, and the position of the stone ascer- tained, the forceps are introduced ovgr the finger into the bladder. If the stone is vei’y large, the opposite side of the prostate may be notched beforo the forceps are introduced; the finger is now withdrawn, and the blades of the forceps opened and made to grasp the stone, which must be extracted by slow and cautious un- dulating movements. Parts divided in the operation. The various structures divided in this operation are as follows:—the integument, superficial fascia, external licomorrhoidal vessels and nerves, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urinse, the Transversus perinaai muscle and artery (and, probably, the superficial perinoaal vessels and nerves), the deep perinceal fascia, the anterior fibres of the Levator ani, part of the Compressor urethrae, the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra, and part of the prostate gland. 397.—A Transverse Section of the Pelvis ; showing the Pelvic Fascia. Parts to he avoided in the operation. In making the necessary incisions in the perinooum for the extraction of a calculus, the following parts should be avoided. The primary incisions should not be made too near the middle line, for fear of wounding the bulb of the corpus spongiosum or the rectum ; nor too far externally, otherwise the pudic artery may be implicated as it ascends along the inner border of the pubic arch. If the incisions are carried too far forward the artery of tho bulb may be divided ; if carried too far backwards, the entire breadth of the prostate and neck of the bladder may be cut through, which allows the mine to become infiltrated behind the pelvic fascia into the loose cellular tissue between tho bladder and rectum, instead of escaping externally; diffuse inflammation is consequently set up, and peritonitis from the close proximity of the recto-vesical peritoneal fold is the consequence. If, on the contrary, the prostate is divided in front of the base of the gland, the urine makes its way externally, and there is less danger of infiltration taking place. During tho operation it is of groat importance that the finger should bo passed