3i3 FIBULAR REGION. | eath ; it then passes through another sheath, over the internal lateral ligament, ' id beneath the calcaneo-scaplioid articulation, and is inserted into the tuberosity I the scaphoid, and internal cuneiform bones. The tendon of this muscle contains [ sesamoid bone, near its insertion, and gives off fibrous expansions, one of which L ,lsses backwards to the os calcis, others outwards to the middle and external i ineiform and some forwards to the bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones 3g. 196). Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Soleus, and Flexor longus digitorum, ae posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and the peroneal vessels, from which it is pparated by the deep fascia. By its deep surface, with the interosseous ligament, xe tibia, fibula, and ankle-joint. Nerves. The Popliteus is supplied by the internal popliteal nerve, the remaining mscles of this group by the posterior tibial nerve. Actions. The Popliteus assists in flexing the leg upon the thigh ; when the leg i flexed, it will rotate the tibia inwards. The Tibialis posticus is a direct extensor f the tarsus upon the leg; acting in conjunction with the Tibialis anticus, it urns the sole of the foot inwards, antagonising the Peroneus longus, which urns it outwards. The Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis are ihe direct Flexors of the phalanges, and, continuing their action, extend the foot j pon the leg ; they assist the Gastrocnemius and Soleus in extending the foot, -s in the act of walking, or in standing on tiptoe. In consequence of the oblique irection of the tendon of the long extensor, the toes would be drawn inwards, > /ere it not for the Flexor accessorius muscle, which is inserted into the outer side f that tendon, and draws it to the middle line of the foot during its action. Caking their fixed point from the foot, these muscles serve to maintain the upright 1 >osture, by steadying the tibia and fibula, perpendicularly, upon the ankle-joint. ‘ .'hey also serve to raise these bones from the obbque position they assume in the itooping posture. Fibulae Region. Peroneus Longus. Peroneus Brevis. Dissection. These muscles are readily exposed, by removing the fascia covering their airface, from below upwards, in the line of direction of their fibres. The Teroneus Longus is situated at the upper part of the outer side of the leg, and is the more superficial of the two muscles. It arises from the head, and upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the shaft of the fibula, from the deep fascia, and from the intermuscular septa, between it and the muscles on the front, and those on the back of the leg. It terminates in a long tendon, which passes behind the outer malleolus, in a groove, common to it and the Peroneus brevis, the groove being converted into a canal by a fibrous band, and the tendons in- vested by a common synovial membrane; it is then reflected, obliquely forwards, across the outer side of the os calcis, being contained in a separate fibrous sheath, lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane from that which lines the groove 1 behind the malleolus. Having reached the outer side of the cuboid bone, it runs in a groove on the under surface of that bone, which is converted into a canal by ' the long calcaneo-cuboid ligament, and is lined by a synovial membrane: the • tendon then crosses obliquely the sole of the foot, and is inseibed into the outer ■ side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The tendon chano-es its direction at two points: first, behind the external malleolus; secondly, on the outer side of the cuboid bone : in both of these situations, the tendon is thickened, and, in the latter, a sesamoid bone is usually developed in its substance. Relations, By its superficial surface, with the fascia and integument; by its deep surface, with the fibula, the Peroneus brevis, os calcis and cuboid bone : by its anterior border, with an intermuscular septum, which intervenes between it and tlio Extensor longus digitorum; by its 'posterior border, with air inter-