521 ORIGINS OF CRANIAL NERVES. ture. They unite with branches of the right nerve and sympathetic, some filaments passing through the lesser omentum to the left hepatic plexus. For the following brief account of the most recent views relating to the origin of the cranial nerves, the editor is indebted to his friend Dr. Lockhart Clarke. The third cerebral nerve arises chiefly from two large masses of grey substance at the floor of the iter e tertio ad quartum ventriculum beneath the corpora quadrigemina. The fourth arises from two nuclei at the floor of iter e tertio ad quartum ventri- culum, and from the valve of Vieussens, where the opposite nerves decussate each other. The large roots of the fifth or trigeminal arise chiefly from the grey tubercles of Rolando, or the upper expanded extremities of the posterior grey horns of the spinal cord; the small or motor roots arise from two masses of large, multipolar cells situated each on the inner side, and close to the grey tubercle, and intimately connected with it. The sixth nerve arises in common with the facial from the grey substance of the fasciculus teres on the floor of the fourth ventricle. The facial nerve has two origins :—1. From the grey substance of the fasciculus teres on the floor of the fourth ventricle.—2. From the nucleus of the motor root of the trigeminus; between these two origins it fonns a loop along the floor of the ventricle. The Auditory Nerve has three origins :—1. From the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum; 2 and 3. From the inner and outer auditory nuclei formed chiefly by the grey substance of the posterior pyramid and restiform body. The vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves have each two origins :—1. From a special nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle. 2. From the anterior or motor part of the medulla. The Spinal-Accessory nerve has three origins:—1. The lower roots from tho anterior grey horn of the spinal cord in common with the motor roots of the cervical nerves. 2. From the grey nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve. 3. From a special nucleus behind the central canal of the medulla oblongata. For further information on the origin of these nerves, and on the connection between their several nuclei, see Dr., Lockhart Clarke’s memoir 1 On the Intimate Structure of the Brain,’ 1st and 2nd Ser.'Phil. Trans. 1858 and 1868. For fuller detail concerning the Cranial Nerves, the student may refer to F. Arnold’s leones Nervorum Capitis;’