73 NASAL F0SS2E. the ethmoid, which is horizontal; and behind, by the under surface of the body of the sphenoid, and sphenoidal turbinated bones, which are directed downwards and backwards. This surface presents, from before backwards, the internal aspect of the nasal bones ; on their outer side, the suture formed between the nasal bone and the nasal process of the superior maxillary ; on their inner side, the elevated crest which receives the nasal spine of the frontal, and the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and articulates with its fellow of the opposite side ; whilst the surface of the bones is perforated by a few small vascular apertures, and presents the longi- tudinal groove for the nasal nerve : further back is the transverse suture, connect- ing the frontal with the nasal in front, and the ethmoid behind, the olfactory foramina and nasal slit on the under surface of the cribriform plate, and the suture between it and the sphenoid behind : quite posteriorly are seen the sphenoidal turbinated bones, the orifices of the sphenoidal sinuses and the articulation of the aim of the vomer with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. The floor is flattened from before backwards, concave from side to side, and wider in the middle than at either extremity. It is formed in front by the palate process of the superior maxillary ; behind, by the palate process of the palate bone. This surface presents, from before backwards, the anterior nasal spine ; behind this, the upper orifice of the anterior palatine canal; internally, the elevated crest which articulates with the vomer ; and behind, the suture between the palate and superior maxillary bones, and the posterior nasal spine. The inner wall, or septum (fig. 67), is a thin vertical partition, which separates the nasal fossse from one another ; it is occasionally perforated, so that the fossae 67.—Inner Wall of Nasal Fossae, or Septum of Nose. r~~ Crest? oj j'fastil Zone_ Basal Spin.e oj Frontal IJ. Space jor Triangular Cartilage oj Septum Crest oj Tajlabte Bone Crost of Sup. Max-ill.Bone communicate, and it is frequently deflected considerably to one side. It is formed, in front, by the crest of the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal ; in the middle, by the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid ; behind, by the vomer and rostrum of the sphenoid ; below, by the crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones. It presents, in front, a large triangular notch, which receives the triangular cartilage of the nose; above, the lower orifices of the olfactory canals; and behind, the guttural edge of the vomer. Its surface is marked by mimorous vasculai an