FEMORAL HERNIA. 733 Its miter wall is formed by the fibrous septum covering the inner side of the femoral vein. Its inner wall is formed by the junction of the transversalis and iliac fasciae, which forms the inner side of the femoral sheath, and covers the outer edge of ' Gimbernat’s ligament. This canal has two orifices: a lower one, the saphenous opening, closed by the cribriform fascia; an upper one, the femoral or crural ring, closed by the septum cruralo. , ) 291. Hernia. The Relations of the Femoral and Internal Abdominal Rings, seen from within the Abdomen. Right Side. The femoral or crural ring (fig. 391) is the upper opening of the femoral canal and leads into the cavity of the abdomen.* It is bounded in front by Poupart’s ligament and the deep crural arch ; behind by the pubes, covered by the Pectineus muscle, and the pubic portion of the fascia lata; internally, by Gimbernat’s ligament, the conjoined tendon, the transversalis fascia, and the deep crural arch ; externally, by the femoral vein, covered by its sheath. The femoral ring is of an oval form, its long diameter, directed transversely, measures about half an inch, and it is larger in the female than in the male, which is one of the reasons of the greater frequency of femoral hernia in the former sex. Position of Parts around the Ring. The spermatic cord in the male, and round ligament in the female, lie immediately above the anterior margin of the femoral ring, and may be divided in an operation for femoral hernia if the incision for the relief of the stricture is not of limited extent. In the female, this is of little importance, but in the male the spermatic artery and vas deferens may be divided. The femoral vein lies on the outer side of the ring. The epigastric artery, in its passage inwards from the external iliac to the umbilicus, passes across the upper and outer angle of the crural ring, and is con- sequently in danger of being wounded if the stricture is divided in a direction upwards and outwards. The communicating branch between tho epigastric and obturator lies in front of the ring. * This ring, like the crural canal, is a morbid or an artificial product. 1 Each femoral hernia makes for itself (for neither outlet exists in tho natural anatomy of tho rogion) a crural canal, and a crural (femoral) ring.’—Callender, op. cit., p. 40.