703 TESTES. border, and connected to the back of the testis by a fold of the serous mem- brane. Attached to the upper end of the testis, or to the epididymis, is a small pedunculated body, the use of which is 377.—Tho Testis in situ. The Tunica Vaginalis having been laid open. 2frtrrn>nfit , Cord Jlrtrry of Cord Tundra Vagtaal}*^^ 'ptrrtebtl iatprr \ j unknown. Size and Weight. The average dimen- sions of this gland are from one and a half to two inches in length, one inch in breadth, and an inch and a quarter in the antero-posterior diameter; and the weight varies from six to eight drachms, the left testicle being a little the larger. The testis is invested by three tunics, the tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa. The Tunica Vaginalis is the serous covering of the testis. It is a pouch of serous membrane, derived from the peri- toneum during the descent of the testis in the foetus, from the abdomen into the scrotum. After its descent, that portion of the pouch which extends from the internal ring to near tbe upper part of the gland becomes obliterated, the lower portion re- maining* as a shut sac, which invests the outer surface of the testis, and is reflected on the internal surface of the scrotum ; hence it may be described as consisting of a visceral and parietal portion. The visceral portion (tunica vaginalis propria'), covers the outer surface of the testis, as well as the epididymis, connecting the latter to the testis by means of a (distinct fold. From the posterior border of the gland, it is reflected on to the :internal surface of the scrotum. The parietal portion of the serous membrane (tunica vaginalis rejlexd), is far imore extensive than the visceral portion, extending upwards, for some distance in front, and on the inner side of the cord, and reaching below the testis. The iinner surface of the tunica vaginalis is free, smooth, and covered by a layer of ^squamous epithelium. The interval between the visceral and parietal layers of it this membrane, constitutes the cavity of the tunica vaginalis. The Tunica Albuginea is the fibrous covering of the testis. It is a dense nbrous membrane, of a bluish white colour, composed of bundles of white fibrous ttissue, which interlace in every direction. Its outer surface is covered by the tunica vaginalis, except along its posterior border, and at the points of attachment of the epididymis ; hence the tunica albuginea is usually considered as a fibro-serous membrane, like the dura mater and pericardium. This membrane surrounds the .-glandular structure of the testicle, and, at its posterior and upper border, is ■■reflected into the interior of the gland, forming an incomplete vertical septum called the mediastinum testis (corpus Highmorianum). The mediastinum testis extends from the upper, nearly to the lower border of :he gland, and is wider above than below. From the front and sides of this septum, numerous slender fibrous cords (trabeculae) are given off", which pass to bo ittached to the inner surface of the tunica albuginea: they serve to maintain the [orm of the testis, and join with similar cords given off from tho inner surface of the tunica albuginea, to form spaces which enclose the separate lobules of the organ. The mediastinum supports the vessels and ducts of tho testis in their passage to and from the substance of the gland. The Tunica Vasculosa (pia mater testis), is the vascular layer of the testis, consisting of a plexus of blood-vessels, held together by a delicate areolar tissue. It covers the inner surface of the tunica albuginea, sending ofl’ numerous processes