684 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. about half an inch in breadth, and the same in depth, and usually covers the second and third rings of the trachea. Its situation presents, however, many variations, a point of importance in the operation of tracheotomy. Sometimes the isthmus is altogether wanting. A third lobe, of conical shape, called the pyramid, occasionally arises from the left side of the upper part of the isthmus, or from the left lobe, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. It is occasionally quite detached, or divided into two parts, or altogether wanting. A few muscular bands are occasionally found attached, above, to the body of the hyoid bone, and below, to the isthmus of the gland, or its pyramidal process. These form a muscle, which was named by Sommcrring the Levator glandulce thyroidee. Structure. The thyroid consists of numerous minute closed vesicles, composed of a homogeneous membrane, inclosed in a dense capillary plexus, and connected together into imperfect lobules, by areolar tissue. These vessels are spherical or oblong, perfectly distinct, and contain a yellowish fluid, in which are found floating numerous ‘ dotted corpuscles ’ and cells. The fluid coagulates by heat or alcohol, but preserves its transparency. In the foetus, and in young subjects, the corpuscles lie in a single layer, in contact with the inner surface of these cavities, and become detached during the process of growth. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the thyroid are the superior and inferior thyroid, and sometimes an additional branch (thyroidea media, or ima) from the arteria innominata, or the arch of the aorta, which ascends upon the front of the trachea. The arteries are remarkable for their large size and frequent anastomoses. The veins form a plexus on the surface of the gland, and on the front of the trachea, from which arise the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins; the two former terminating in the internal jugular, the latter in the vena innominata. The lymphatics are numerous, of large size, and terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric, and from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Chemical Composition. The thyroid gland consists of albumen, traces of gelatine, stearine, oleine, extractive matter, alkaline, and earthy salts, and water. The salts are chloride of sodium, alkaline sulphate, phosphate of potash, lime magnesia, and a trace of oxide of iron. Thymus Gland. The thymus gland presents much resemblance in structure to other glandular organs, and is another of the organs denominated ductless gland. The thymus gland is a temporary organ, attaining its full size at the end of the second year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually dwindles, until, at puberty, it has almost disappeared. If examined, when its growth is most active, it will be found to consist of two lateral lobes, placed in close contact along the middle line, situated partly in the anterior mediastinum, partly in the neck, and extending from the fourth costal cartilage upwards, as high as the lower border of the thyroid gland. It is covered by the sternum, and by the origins of the Sterno- hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. In the mediastinum, it rests upon the pericar- dium, being separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by the thoracic fascia. In the neck, it lies on the front and sides of the trachea, behind the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. The two lobes generally differ in size; they are occasionally united, so as to form a single mass ; and sometimes separated by an intermediate lobe. The thymus is of a pinkish-grey colour, soft, and lobulated on its surfaces. It is about two inches in length, one and a half in breadth, below, and about three or four lines in thickness. At birth it weighs about half an ounce.