MUSCLES AND FASOIJB. 2j6 surf ace, with the Flexor profundus digitorum, the Flexor longus pollicis, Flexor carpi radialis, and the radial vessels. By its ‘posterior surface, with the radius, ulna, and interosseous membrane. Nerves. All the muscles of tho superficial layer are supplied by the median nerve, excepting the Flexor carpi ulnaris, which is supplied by the ulnar. Of the deep layer, tho Flexor profundus digitorum is supplied conjointly by tho ulnar and by the median, through its branch, the anterior interosseous nerve, which also supplies the flexor longus pollicis and Pronator quadratus. Ac turns. These muscles act upon the forearm, the wrist, and hand. Those acting on the forearm, are tho Pronator radii teres and Pronator Quadratus, which rotate the radius upon the ulna, rendering the hand prone; when pronation has been fully effected, the Pronator radii teres assists the other muscles in flexing the forearm. The flexors of the wrist are the Flexor carpi ulnaris and radialis ; and the flexors of the phalanges are the Flexor sublimis and Profundus digitorum; the former flexing the second phalanges, and the latter the last. The Flexor longus pollicis flexes the last phalanx of the thumb. The three latter muscles, after flexing the phalanges, by continuing their action, act upon the wrist, assisting the ordinary flexors of this joint; and all those which are attached to the humerus assist in flexing the forearm upon the arm. The Pulmaris longus is a tensor of the palmar fascia; when this action has been fully effected, it flexes the hand upon the forearm. liADlAL RuCIJON. (Fig. I 74.) Supinator Longus. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevirn*. Dissection. Divide the integument in the same manner as in the dissection of the anterior brachial region ; and after having examined the cutaneous vessels and nerves and deep fascia, remove all those structures. The muscles will then be exposed. The removal of the fascia will be considerably facilitated by detaching it from beloAv upwards. Great care should be taken to avoid cutting across the tendons of the muscles of the thumb, which cross obliquely the larger tendons running down the back of the radius. The Supinator Longus is the most superficial muscle on the radial side of the forearm : it is fleshy for the upper two-thirds of its extent, tendinous below. It arises from the upper two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, and Rom the external intermuscular septum, being limited above by the musculo- spiral groove. The fibres terminate above the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the styloid process of the radius. jRelations-. By its superficial surface, with the integument and fascia for the greater part of its extent; near its insertion it is crossed by the Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and the Extensor primi internodii pollicis. By its deep surface, with the humerus, the Extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, the insertion of the Pronator radii teres, and the Supinator brevis. By its inner border, above the elbow, with the Brachialis anticus, the mnsculo-spiral nerve, and radial recurrent artery ; and in the forearm, with the radial vessels and nerve. The Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior is placed partly beneath the preceding muscle. It arises from the lower third of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, and from the external intermuscular septum. The fibres terminate at the upper third of the forearm in a flat tendon, which runs along the outer border of the radius, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb ; it then passes through a oroove common to it and the Extensor carpi radialis brfevior immediately behind O *■ * the styloid process ; and is inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the_ index finger, On its radial side. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Supinator longus, and fascia of the forearm. Its outer side is crossed obliquely by the extensor tendons of