OF THE CARPUS. 181 and cuneiform bones; they are less strong than the dorsal, and placed very deep under the anterior ligament of the wrist. The Interosseous Ligaments (fig. 136) are two narrow bundles of fibrous tissue, connectmo’ the semilunar bone, on one side "With the scaphoid, on the other with the cuneiform. They close the upper part of the interspaces between the scaphoid, ■ semilunar, and cuneiform bones, their upper surfaces being smooth, and lined by the • synovial membrane of the wrist-joint. The articulation of the pisiform with the cuneiform is provided with a separate synovial membrane, protected by a thin capsular ligament. There are also two rstrong- fibrous fasciculi, which connect this bone to the unciform, the base of the ifth metacarpal bone (fig. 134). 2. Articulations of the Second Row of Carpal Bones. These are also arthrodial joints. The articular surfaces are covered with carti- age, and connected by the following ligaments :— Three Dorsal. Three Palmar. Two Interosseous. The three Dorsal Ligaments extend transversely from one bone to another on tho ; orsal surface, connecting the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the -s magnum, and the os magnum with the unciform. The three Palmar Ligaments have a similar arrangement on the palmar surface. The two Interosseous Ligaments, much thicker than those of the first row, are laced one on each side of the os magnum, connecting it with the trapezoid externally, and the unciform internally. The former is less distinct than the itter. 3. Articulations of the Two Rows of Carpal Bones with each other. The articulations between the two rows of the carpus consist of a joint in the . liddle, formed by the reception of the head of the os magnum into a cavity jrmed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and of an arthrodial joint on each ide, the outer one formed by the articulation of the scaphoid with the trapezium nd trapezoid, the internal one by the articulation of the cuneiform and unciform, hie articular surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and connected by he following ligaments :— Anterior or Palmar. External Lateral. Posterior or Dorsal. Internal Lateral. The Anterior or Palmar Ligaments consist of short fibres, which pass obliquely 1 etween the bones of the first and second row on the palmar surface. The Posterior or Dorsal Ligaments have a similar arrangement on the dorsal urface of the carpus. The Lateral Ligaments are very short; they are placed, one on the radial, the ther on the ulnar side of the carpus; the former, the stronger and more distinct, mnecting the scaphoid and trapezium bones, the latter the cuneiform and unci- >rm ; they are continuous with the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint. The common Synovial Membrane of the Carpus is very extensive; it lines the nder surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, sending upwards •vo prolongations between their contiguous surfaces; it is then reflected over the ones of the second row, and sends down three prolongations between them, which ne their contiguous surfaces, and invest the carpal extremities of tho four inner letacarpal bones. There is a separate synovial membrane between the pisiform nd cuneiform bones. Actions. The hand and wrist is divided by Meyer* into three parts :—1. The * Reichert u. Du Buis Royinond, Arohiv. 1800.