4i3 POPLITEAL. josterior ligament of the knee-joint, the upper end of the tibia, and the fascia •overincr the Popliteus muscle, and the space is covered in by the fascia lata. Contents. It contains the Popliteal vessels and their branches, together with the ermination of the external saphenous vein, the internal and external popliteal lerves and their branches, the small sciatic nerve, the articular branch from the ibturator nerve, a few small lymphatic glands, and a considerable quantity of loose ^P^ti^of contained parts. The internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle ine of the space, lying superficial and a little external to the vein and artery. The external popliteal nerve descends on the outer side of the space, lying close o the tendon of the Biceps muscle. More deeply at the bottom of the space are he popliteal vessels, the vein lying superficial and a little external to the artery, o which it is closely united by dense areolar tissue; sometimes the vein is placed _m the inner instead of the outer side of the artery ; or the vein may be double, the artery lying between the two venae comites, which are usually connected by short transverse branches. More deeply, and close to the surface of the bone, is the popliteal artery, and passing off from it at right angles are its articular branches. The articular branch from the obturator nerve descends upon the popliteal artery to supply the knee; and occasionally there is found deep in the space an articular filament from the great sciatic nerve. The popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, are found surrounding the artery; one usually lies superficial to the vessel, another is situated between it and the bone, and the rest are placed on either side of it. The bursae usually found in this space are : 1. On the outer side, one beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius (which sometimes commu- nicates with the joint) and one beneath the tendon of the Popliteus, which is almost always an extension of the synovial membrane. Sometimes also there is a bursa above the tendon of the Popliteus, between it and the external lateral ligament. 2. On the inner side of the joint there is a large bursa between the inner head of the Gas- trocnemius and the femur, which sends a prolongation between the tendons of the Gastrocnemius and Semimembranosus, and lies in contact with the ligament of Winslow. This bursa often communicates with the joint. There is a second bursa between the tendon of the Semimembranosus and the head of the tibia; and sometimes a bursa between the tendons of the Semitendinosus and Semimem- branosus. The Popliteal Artery, in its course downwards from the aperture in the Ad- ductor magnus to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, rests first on the inner, and then on the posterior surface of the femur ; in the middle of its course, on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and below, on the fascia covering the Pop- liteus muscle. Superficially, it is covered, above, by the Semimembranosus ; in the middle of its course, by a quantity of fat, which separates it from the deep fascia and integument; and below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Soleus muscles, the popliteal vein, and the internal popliteal nerve. The pop- liteal vein, which is intimately attached to the artery, lies superficial and external to it, until near its termination, when it crosses it and lies to its inner side. The popliteal nerve is still more superficial and external, crossing, however, the artery below the joint, and lying on its inner side. Laterally, the artery is bounded by the muscles which form the boundaries of the popliteal space. Plan of Relations of Popliteal Artery. In front. Femur. Ligamentum posticum.Lwn Popliteus. Inner trifle Semimembranosus. Ou/er .vie. Biceps.