GENERAL ANATOMY. XCV1 course, becoming straight in the more superficial part of this layer, and opens on the surface of the cuticle by an oblique valve-like aperture. In the parts where the epidermis is thin, the ducts are finer, and almost straight in their course ; but where the epidermis is thicker, they assume again a spiral arrangement, the separate windings of the tube being as close and as regular as those of a common screw. The spiral course of these ducts is especially distinct in the thick cuticle of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot. The size of these glands varies. They are especially large in those regions where the amount of perspiration is great, as in the axillae, where they form a thin mammillated layer of a reddish colour, which corresponds exactly to the situation of the hair in this region; they are large, also, in the groin. Their number varies. They are most numerous on the palm of the hand, presenting, according to Krause, 2,800 orifices on a square inch of the integument, and are rather less numerous on the sole of the foot. In both of these situations, the orifices of the ducts are exceedingly regular, and correspond to the small transverse grooves which intersect the ridges of papillse. In other situations they are more irregularly scattered, but in nearly equal numbers, over parts including the same extent of surface. In the neck and back they are least numerous, their number amounting to 417 on the square inch (Krause). Their total number is estimated by the same writer at 2,381,248 ; and supposing the aperture of each gland to represent a surface of gig ill of a line in diameter, he calculates that the whole of these glands would present an evaporating surface of about eight square inches. Each gland consists of a single tube intricately convoluted, terminating at one end by a blind extremity, and opening at the other end upon the surface of the skin. In the larger glands this single duct usually divides and subdivides dichotomously ; the smaller ducts ultimately terminating in short csecal pouches, rarely anastomosing. The wall of the duct is thick; the width of the canal rarely exceeding one third of its diameter. The tube, both in the gland and where it forms the excretory duct, consists of two layers : an outer, formed by fine areolar tissue; and an inner lajmr of epithelium. The external, or fibro-cellular coat, is thin, continuous with the superficial layer of the corium, and extends only as high as the surface of the true skin. The epithelial lining is much thicker, continuous with the epidermis, and alone forms the spiral portion of the tube. When the cuticle is carefully removed from the surface of the cutis, these convoluted tubes of epidermis may be drawn out, and form nipple-shaped projections on its under surface. According to Kolliker, a layer of non-striated muscular fibres, arranged longitudinally, is found between the areolar and epithelial coats of the ducts of the larger sweat-glands, as in the axilla, root of the penis, on the labia majora, and round the anus. The contents of the smaller sweat-glands are quite fluid; but in the larger glands, the contents are semi-fluid and opaque, and contain a number of coloured granules, and cells which appear analogous to epithelial cells.