SUPRASCAPULAR. TRANSVERSALIS COLLI. 363 terminal branches, the posterior cerebral arteries. Its branches are, on each side, the following: . , ,, Transverse. Superior cerebellar. Anterior cerebellar. Posterior cerebral. _, , ,, i„.qncbcs supply the pons Varolii and adjacent parts of the The te^rnbJ“7tory)PiAccompanies the auditory nerve into the internal ,T’ ° meatus a,,d an^tifer, of larger size, passes along the crus cerebell, to bfdibtributed te the anterior border of the under surface of the cerebellum. It is „n„;i +v.Q nniarior inferior cerebellar artery.. mi Init cerebellar arteries airise near the termination of the basilar. They ■A L the crus cerebri, cble to the fourth nerve, and arriving at the upper Wmc 10111 divide into branches which ramify in the pia mater and cerebellar. Several branches are given to the pineal gIl'p.d! arteries, tile two terminal branches of the basilar, are hr , r t an the preceding,' ton which they are separated near their origin by the ttod neives. Winding round the crus cerebri, they pass to the under surface of the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, which they supply, anastomosing wi i e airier and middle cerebral arteries. Near their origin they receive the posterior communicating arteries from the internal carotid, and give o numei branches which enter the posterior perforated space, they also give off a branc nnsterior choroid, which supplies the velum mterpositum and choroid plexu. dutoSg the i.s; of the brain beneath the posterior border of the corpus Ca'chrU of Willis. The remarkable anastomosis which exists between the branches of ri lte 1 carotid and vertebral arteries at the base of the brain, constitutes L"o™Willis. It is formed, in front, by the anterior cerebral and anterior communicating arteries; on each side, by the trunk of the "1care£ and he posterior communicating; behind, by the posterior cerebral, and point of the basilar It is by this anastomosis that the cerebral circulation is equalised, and p^o “ion made for effectually carrying it on if one or more of the branches are obliterated The parts of the brain included within this arterial circle are, the lamina cinerea, the commissure of the optic nerves, the infundibulum, the tuber ciuereum, the corpora albicantia, and the pars perforata postica. The Thtboid Axis (fig. zo7) is a short thick trunk, which arises from the fore part of the first portion of the subclavian artery, close to the inner side of Scalenus anticus muscle, and divides, almost immediately after its oiugin, into three branches, the inferior thyroid, suprascapular, and transversals colli. The Inferior Thyroid Artery passes upwards, m a serpentine course, be m the sheath of the common carotid vessel and sympathetic nerve (the mi e cervical ganglion resting upon it), and is distributed to the under surface of the thyroid gland, anastomosing with the superior thyroid, and with the conespond- ing artery of the opposite side. Its branches are the Laryngeal. Tracheal. (Esophageal. Ascending cervical. The laryngeal branch ascends upon the trachea to the back part of the larynx, and supplies the muscles and the mucous membrane of this part. > The tracheal branches are distributed upon the trachea, anastomosing below with the bronchial arteries. The oesophageal branches are distributed to the oesophagus. . _ The ascending cervical is a small branch which arises from the infeuor i 1 ou just where that vessel is passing behind the common carotid artery, anc runs UF the neck in the interval between the Scalenus anticus and Rectus anticus majo It gives branches to the muscles of the neck, which communicate with tiosc son out from the vertebral, and sends one or two through the intervertebra oramma,