THE AORTA. 325 • prilarcement that a collateral circulation is established after the s it is by then e g pt for the cure of aneurism. The smaller branches p plication of a_ hga u quently than the larger ; and between the smallest a close network ^nn?)erv^es,x^|^1b0^^^en1er^ly^theeiarger' arterial branches pursue a perfectly 1 hroughoutthe^b *78^ ^lations tliev are tortuous ; thus, the facial artery ‘uTtf couie oyer the face, and the arteries of the lips, are extremely tortuous m !! L accommodate themselves to the movements of the parts. The heir course, to t t to accommodate themselves to the increase of o"af Idorgoes during pregnancy. Again, the internal carotid md vertebral arteries, previous to their entering the cavity of the skull describe a mts o^cmves which are evidently intended to diminish the velocity of the current T^l^reasing the extent of surface over which it moves, and adding to the amount of impediment which is produced by friction. , . , The arteries are dense in structure, of considerable strength highly elastic, an , when divided, they preserve, although empty, their cylindrical form- The minute structure of these vessels is described m the Introduction. In the description of the arteries, we shall first consider the efferent tr unk of t systemic circulation, the aorta, and its branches ; and then the efferent trunk pulmonic circulation, the pulmonary aiteiy. The Aorta. The aorta (door,); arleria magna) is the main trunk of a series of vessels vliich, arising from the heart, convey the red oxygenated blood to every pa. t o he body for its nutrition. This vessel commences at the upper pat t of the left ,-entricle, and after ascending for a short distance, arches backwards to lie left dde, over the root of the left lung, descends within the thorax on the left side o he vertebral column, passes through the aortic opening m the Diaphragm, and mteriim the abdominal cavity, terminates, considerably diminished m size, oppo- se tlie°fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the right and left common iliac arteries. Hence its subdivision into the arch of the aorta, the thoracic and tlie abdominal aorta, from the direction or position of its parts. Arch of the Aorta. Dissection In order to examine the arch of the aorta, open the thoiax, by dividing the cartilages of the ribs on each side of the sternum, raising this bone from below upwards, and then sawino- through the sternum on a level with its articulation with the clavicle. By^t means, the relations of the large vessels to the upper border of the sternum and loot of the neck are kept in view. The arch of the aorta extends from the origin of the vessel at the upper part of the left ventricle to the lower border of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. At its commencement, it ascends behind the sternum, obliquely upwards and forwards towards the right side, and opposite the upper border of the second costal cartilage of the right side, passes transversely from right to left, and from before backwards, to the left side of the third dorsal vertebra; it then descends upon the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra, at the lower border o which it takes the name of thoracic aorta. The arch of the aorta describes a curve, the convexity of which is directed upwards and to the right side , an it is subdivided, at the points where it changes its direction, so as to be described in three portions, the ascending, transverse, and descending portions ol tho aic 1 o the aorta.