647 STRUCTURE OF SPLEEN. altered both in form and colour. Besides these, numerous deep-red, or reddish yellow, or black corpuscles and crystals, either single or aggregated in masses, are seen diffused throughout the pulp-substance : these, in chemical composition, are closely allied to the lirematin of the blood. Malpighian Corpuscles. On examining the cut surface of a healthy spleen, a number of small semi-opaque bodies, of gelatinous consistence, are seen dissemi- nated throughout its substance ; these are the splenic or Malpighian corpuscles (fi<>\ 352). They may be seen at all periods of life; but they are more distinct in early than in adult life or old age ; and they are much smaller in man than in most mammalia. They are of a spherical or ovoid form, vary considerably in size and number, and are of a semi-opaque Avhitisk colour. They are appended to the sheaths of the smaller arteries and their branches, presenting a resemblance to the buds of the moss rose. Each consists of a membranous capsule, composed of fine pale fibres, which interlace in all directions. In man, the capsule is homo- geneous in structure, and formed by a prolongation from the sheaths of the small arteries to which the corpuscles are attached. The blood-vessels ramifying on : the surface of the corpuscles, consist of the larger ramifications of the arteries to Avliich the sacculus is connected ; and also of a delicate capillary plexus, similar 353.—One of the Splenic Corpuscles, showing its Relations with the Blood-vessels. to that surrounding the vesicles of other glands. These vesicles have also a ■ close relation with the veins (fig. 353). The latter vessels, which are of considerable size even at their origin, commence on the surface of each vesicle throughout the !'whole of its circumference, forming a dense mesh of veins, in which the Malpighian corpuscle is enclosed. It is probable, that from the blood contained in the capil- lary network, the material is separated which is occasionally stored up in tho cavity of the corpuscle ; the veins being so placed as to carry off, under certain conditions, those contents to be discharged again into the circulation. Each capsule contains a soft, white, semi-fluid substance, consisting of granular matter, nuclei similar to those found in the pulp, and a few nucleated cells, the composi- tion of which is apparently albuminous. These bodies are very large after digestion is completed, in well-fed animals, and especially in those fed upon p albuminous diet. In starved animals, they disappear altogether.