44 THE SKELETON. branch of tho nasal nerve. The superior border is narrow, thick, and serrated for articulation with tho nasal notch of the frontal bone. Tho inferior border is broad, thin, sharp, directed obliquely downwards, outwai’ds, and backwards, and serves for the attachment of the lateral cartilage of tho nose. This border presents about its centre a notch, through which passes tho branch of the nasal nerve above referred to; and is prolonged at its inner extremity into a sharp spine, which when articulated with the opposite bone, forms tho nasal angle. The external border is serrated, bevollcd at tho exponso of the internal surface above, and of the external below, to articulate with the nasal process of the superior maxillary. The internal border, thicker above than below, articulates with its fellow of the opposite side, and is prolonged behind into a vertical crest, which forms part of the septum of the nose : this crest articulates with tho nasal spine of the frontal above, and tho perpendicular plate of the ethmoid below. Development. By one centre for each bone, which appears about the same period as in the vertebrae. Articulations. With four bones : two of the cranium, the frontal and ethmoid, and two of the face, the opposite nasal and the superior maxillary. No muscles are directly attached to this bone. Superior Maxillary Bone. The Superior Maxillary is one of the most important bones of the face in a surgical point of view, on account of the number of diseases to which some of its parts are liable. Its minute examination becomes, therefore, a matter of considerable interest. It is the largest bone of the face, excepting the lower jaw; and forms, by its union with its fellow of the opposite side, the whole of the upper jaw. Each bone assists in the formation of three cavities, the roof of the mouth, the floor and outer wall of the nose, and the floor of the orbit; and also enters into the formation of two fossaa, the zygomatic and spheno-maxillary; and two fissures, the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary. The bone presents for examination a body and four processes* malar, nasal, alveolar, and palatine. The body is somewhat quadrilateral, and is hollowed out in its interior to form a large cavity, the antrum of Highmore. Its surfaces are four—an external or facial, a posterior or zygomatic, a superior or orbital, and an internal. The external or facial surf'ace (fig. 45). is directed forwards and outwards. In the median line of the bone, just above the incisor teeth, is a depression, the in- cisive or myrtiform fossa, which gives origin .to the Depressor alse nasi. Above and a little external to it, the Compressor nasi arises. More external, is another depression, the canine fossa, larger and deeper than the incisive fossa, from which it is separated by a vertical ridge, the canine eminence, corresponding to the socket of the canine tooth. The canine fossa gives origin to the Levator anguli oris. Above the canine fossa is the infra-orbital foramen, the termination of the infra- orbital canal; it transmits the infra-orbital nerve and artery. Above the infra- orbital foramen is the margin of the orbit, which affords partial attachment to the Levator labii superioris proprius. The posterior or zygomatic surface is convex, directed backwards and outwards, and forms part of the zygomatic fossa. It presents about its centre several aper- tures leading to canals in the substance of the bone ; they are termed the posterior denial canals, and transmit the posterior dental vessels and nerves. At the lower part of this surface is a rounded eminence, the maxillary tuberosity, especially prominent after the growth of tho wisdom-tooth, rough on its inner side for articulation with the tuberosity of the palate-bone. Immediately above'the rough surface is a groove, which, running obliquely down on the inner surface of the bone, is converted into a canal by articulation with the palate bone, forming the posterior palatine canal. The superior or orbital surface is thin, smooth, triangular, and forms part of