THE SKELETON. So extremity presonts for examination a head, nock, and tuberosity. The head (tig. 76.) is marked by a kidney-shaped articular surface, divided by a horizontal ridge into two facets for articulation with the costal cavity formed by the junction of the bodies of two contiguous dorsal vertebra?; the upper facet is small, the inferior one of largo size; the ridge separating them serves for the attachment of the inter-articular ligament. 76.—Vertebral Extremity of 11 Ilib. External Surface. for Ant?: Facet fur body of upper Domed Vortclra Jiidijc for Tnler-urticiuar Fuce.t for body of l o user Domed for tra.ruv.yroc. The neck is that flattened portion of the rib which extends outwards from the head ; it is about an inch long, and rests upon the transverse process of the lower of the two vertebrae with which the head articulates. Its anterior surface is flat and smooth, its posterior rough, for the attachment of the middle costo-transverse ligament, and perforated by numerous foramina, the direction of which is less constant than those found on the inner surface of the shaft. Of its two borders the superior presents a rough crest for the attachment of the anterior costo- transverse ligament; its inferior border is rounded. On the posterior surface of the neck, just where it joins the shaft, and nearer the lower than the upper border, is an eminence—the tuberosity, or tubercle; it consists of an articular and a non- articular portion. The articular portion, the more internal and inferior of the two, presents a small oval surface, for articulation with the extremity of the trans- verse process of the lower of the two vertebrae to which the head is connected. The non-articular portion is a rough elevation, which affords attachment to the posterior costo-transverse ligament. The tubercle is much more prominent in the upper than in the lower ribs. The shaft is thin and flat, so as to present two surfaces, an external and an internal; and two borders, a superior and an inferior. The external surface is convex, smooth, and marked, at its back part, a little in front of the tuberosity, by a prominent line, directed obliquely from above, downwards and outwards; this gives attach- ment to a tendon of the Sacro-lumbalis muscle, and is called the angle. At this point, the rib is bent in two directions. If the rib is laid upon its lower border, it will be seen that the anterior portion of the shaft, as far as the angle, rests upon this margin, while the vertebral end of the bone, beyond the angle, is bent inwards and at the same time tilted upwards. The interval between the angle and the tuberosity increases gradually from the second to the tenth rib. The poi’tion of bone between these two parts is rounded, rough, and irregular, and serves for the attachment of the Longissimus dorsi. The portion of bone between the angle and sternal extremity is also slightly twisted upon its own axis, the external surface looking downwards behind the angle, a little upwards in front of it. This surface presents, towards its sternal extremity, an oblique line, the anterior angle. The internal surface is concave, smooth, directed a little upwards behind the angle ; a little downwards in front of it. This surface is marked by a ridge which com- mences at the lower extremity of the head ; it is strongly marked as far as the inner side of the angle, and gradually becomes lost at the junction of the anterior with the middle third of the bone. The interval between it and the inferior border is deeply grooved, to lodge the intercostal vessels and nerve. At the back part of the bone, this groove belongs to the inferior border, but just in front of the angle, where it is deepest and broadest, it corresponds to the internal surface. The superior edge of the groove is rounded ; it serves for