ORGANS OF SENSE. 566 is transvorso. The filiform papilla) are of a whitish tint, owing to the thickness and density of their epithelium; they are covered with numerous secondary papillae, are firmer and more elastic than the papillae of mucous membrane generally, and often enclose minute hairs. Simple papilla}, similar to those of the skin, are dispersed very unequally among the compound forms, and exist sparingly on the surface of the tongue behind the circumvallate variety, buried under a layer of epithelium. Structure of the papillce. The papilla) apparently resemble in structure those of the cutis, consisting of a cone-shaped projection of homogenous tissue, covered with a thick layer of squamous epithelium, and contain one or more capillary loops, amongst which nerves are distributed in great-abundance. If the epithelium is removed, it will be found that they are not simple processes like the papillae of the skin, for the surface of each is studded with minute conical processes of the mucous membrane, which form secondary papillae (Todd and Bowman). In the papillae circumvallatae, the nerves are numerous and of large size; in the papillae fungifornies they are also numerous, and terminate in a plexiform network, from which brush-like branches proceed ; in the papillae filiformes, their mode of ter- mination is uncertain. Besides the papillae, the mucous membrane of the tongue is provided with numerous follicles and glands. The follicles are found scattered over its entire surface, but are especially numerous between the papillae circumvallatae and the epiglottis. The mucous glands (lingual), similar in structure to the labial and buccal, are found chiefly beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the dorsum of the tongue. There is a small group of these glands beneath the tip of the tongue, a few along the borders of the organ, and some in front of the circumvallate papillaB pi’ojecting in the muscular substance. Their ducts open either upon the surface, or into the depressions round the large papillae. The epithelium is of the scaly variety like that of the epidermis. It covers the free surface of the tongue, as may be easily demonstrated by maceration, or boiling, Avhen it can be detached entire: it is much thinner than in the skin : the intervals between the large papillae are not filled up.by it, but each papilla has a separate investmeut from root to summit. The deepest cells may sometimes be detached as a separate layer, corresponding to the rete mucosum, but they never contain colouring matter. The tongue consists of two symmetrial halves, separated from each other, in the middle line, by a fibrous septum. Each half is composed of muscular fibres arranged in various directions, containing much interposed fat, and supplied by vessels and nerves : the entire organ is invested by mucous membrane, and a sub- mucous fibrous stratum. The latter membrane invests the greater part of the surface of the tongue, and into it the muscular fibres are inserted that pass to the surface. It is thicker behind than in front, and is continuous with the sheaths of the muscles attached to it. The fibrous septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue, extending throughout the entire length of the middle line of the tongue, from the base to the apex. It is thicker behind than in front, and occasionally contains a small fibro- cartilage, about a quarter of an inch in length. It is well displayed by making a vertical section across the organ. Another strong fibrous lamina, termed the hyo- glossal membrane, connects the under surface of the base of the tongue to the body of the hyoid bone. This membrane receives, in front, some of the fibres of the Genio-hyo-glossi. Each half of the tongue consists of extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. The former have been already described ; they are the Hyo-glossus, Genio-h}To-glossus, Stylo- glossus, Palato-glossus, and part of the Superior constrictor. The intrinsic muscles are the Superior longitudinal, Inferior longitudinal, and Transverse. The superior longitudinal fibres (lingualis superficialis') form a superficial stratum of oblique and longitudinal fibres on the upper surface of the organ,