264 MUSCLES AND FASOLE. from tho first and second ribs, and from the aponeurotic arch between them; its fibres proceed upwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted into the triangular smooth surface on the inner side of the superior angle of the scapula. The middle portion of the muscle arises by three digitations from the second, third, and fourth ribs, it forms a thin and broad muscular layer, which proceeds horizontally back- wards to be inserted into the posterior border of the scapula, between the superior and inferior angles. The lower portion ai’ises from the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth ribs, by four digitations, in the intervals between which are received cor- responding processes of the External oblique ; the fibres pass upwards, outwards, and backwards, to be inserted into the inner surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, by an attachment partly muscular, partly tendinous. Relations. This muscle is covered, in front, by the Pectoral muscles ; behind, by the Subscapularis ; above, by the axillary vessels and nerves. Its deep surface rests upon the ribs and Intercostal muscles. Nerves. The Serratus magnus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve. Actions. The Serratus magnus is the most important external inspiratory muscle. When the shoulders are fixed, it elevates the ribs, and so dilates the cavity of the chest, assisting the Pectoral and Subclavius muscles. This muscle, especially its middle and lower segments, draws the base and inferior angle of the scapula forwards, and so raises the point of the shoulder by causing a rotation of the bone on the side of the chest ; assisting the Trapezius muscle in supporting weights upon the shoulder, the thorax being at the same time fixed by preventing the escape of the included air. Dissection. After completing the dissection of the axilla, if the muscles of the back have been dissected, the upper extremity should be separated from the trunk. Saw through the clavicle at its centre, and then cut through the muscles which connect the scapula and arm with the trunk, viz. the Pectoralis minor, in front, Serratus magnus, at the side, and the Levator anguli scapulae, the Rhomboids, Trapezius, and Latissimus dorsi behind. These muscles should be cleaned and traced to their respective insertions. Then make an incision through the integument, commencing at the outer third of the clavicle, and extending along the margin of that hone, the acromion process, and spine of the scapula; the integument should be dissected from above downwards and outwards, when the fascia covering the Deltoid is exposed (fig. 168, No. 3). The superficial fascia of the upper extremity, is a thin cellulo-fibrous lamina, containing between its layers the superficial veins and lymphatics, and the cuta- neous nerves. It is most distinct in front of the elbow, and contains very large superficial veins and nerves ; in the hand it is hardly demonstrable, the integument being closely adherent to the deep fascia by dense fibrous bands. Small subcu- taneous bursse are found in this fascia, over the acromion, the olecranon, and the knuckles. The deep fascia of the upper extremity comprises the aponeurosis of the shoulder, arm, and forearm, the anterior and posterior annular ligaments of the carpus, and the palmar fascia. These will be considered in the description of the muscles of the several regions. Acromial Region. Deltoid. The deep fascia covering the Deltoid (deltoid aponeurosis) is a thick and strong fibrous layer, which encloses the outer surface of the muscle, and sends down numerous prolongations between its fasciculi; it is continuous, internally, with the fascia covering the great Pectoral muscle; behind, with that covering the Infra- spinatus and back of the arm : above, it is attached to the clavicle, the acromion, and spine of the scapula. The Deltoid (fig. 169) is a large, thick, triangular muscle, which forms the con- vexity of the shoulder, and has recei ved its name from its resemblance to the Greek letter A reversed. It surrounds the shoulder-joint in the greater part of its extent, covering it on its outer side, and in front and behind. It arises from the outer third of the anterior border and upper surface of the clavicle; from the outer