435 branches of axillary. the bend of the elbow it receives the median cephalic, when it becomes the “t)hoteTalic Vein ascends along the outer border of the Biceps muscle, to the upper third of the arm ; it then passes in the interval between the 1 ectorahs major and Deltoid muscles, accompanied by the descending branch of he thorac.ca aero- mialis artery, and terminates in the axillary vein just below the clavicle this vein is occasionally connected with the external jugular or subclavian, by a branch which passes from it upwards in front of the clavicle. The Median Vein collects the blood from the superhcial structures on the palmar surface of the hand and middle line of the fore-arm, communicating with the anterior ulnar and radial veins. At the bend of the elbow, it receives a branch ot communication from the deep veins, accompanying the brachial artery, and divides into two branches, the median cephalic and median basilic, which diverge from each other as they ascend. The Median Cephalic, usually the smaller of the two, passes outwards m the groove between the Supinator longiis and Biceps muscles, and joins with the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cutaneous nerve pass behind this i Y6SSg1. The Median Basilic vein passes obliquely inwards, in the groove between the Biceps and Pronator radii teres, and joins with the basilic. This vein passes in front of the brachial artery, from which it is separated by a fibrous expansion, given off from the tendon of the Biceps to the fascia covering the Flexor muscles of the fore-arm. Filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve pass in front as well as behind this vessel.* The Beep Veins of the Tipper Extremity follow the course of the arteries, forming their venal comites. They are generally two in number, one lying on each side of the corresponding artery, and they are connected at intervals by short transverse branches. There are two digital veins, accompanying each artery along the sides of the finders; these, uniting at their base, pass along the interosseous spaces in the palm, and terminate in the two superficial palmar veins. Branches from these vessels on the radial side of the hand accompany the superficialis volai, and on the ulnar side terminate in the deep ulnar veins. The deep ulnar veins, as they pass in front of the wrist, communicate with the interosseous and superficial veins, and unite, at the elbow, with the deep radial veins, to form the vense comites of the brachial artery. The Interosseous Veins accompany the anterior and posterior interosseous arteries. The anterior interosseous veins commence in front of the wrist, where they com- municate with the deep radial and ulnar veins ; at the upper part of the fore-arm they receive the posterior interosseous veins, and terminate in the vense comites of the ulnar artery. The Deep Palmar Veins accompany the deep palmar arch, being formed by branches which accompany the ramifications of that vessel. They communicate with the superficial palmar veins at the inner side of the hand ; and on the outer side terminate in the vense comites of the radial artery. At the wust, they receive a dorsal and a palmar branch from the thumb, and unite with the deep radial veins. Accompanying the radial artery, these vessels terminate in the venae comites of the brachial artery. The Brachial Veins are placed one on each side of the brachial artery, receiving branches corresponding with those given off from that vessel; at the lower margin of the axilla they unite with the basilic to form the axillary vein. * Cruveilhier says: ‘Numerous varieties are observed in the disposition of the veins of the elbow; sometimes the common median vein is wanting; but in those cases, its t\% o branches of bifurcation are furnished by the radial vein, and the cephalic is almost always in a rudimentary condition. In other cases, only two veins are found at the bend ot the elbow, the radial and ulnar, which are continuous, without any demarcation, with t 10 cephalic and basilic.’