ARTERIES. 374 is performed, as the vessel occasionally deviates from its usual position in the arm. In what- ever situation the operation is performed, great care is necessary, on account of the extreme thinness of the parts covering the artery, and the intimate connection which the vessel has throughout its whole course with important nerves and veins. Sometimes a thin layer of muscular fibre is met with concealing the artery; if such is the case, it must be cut across, in order to expose the vessel. In the upper third of the arm the artery may be exposed in the following manner:—The patient being placed horizontally upon a table, the affected limb should be raised from the side, and the hand supinated. An incision about two inches in length should be made on the ulnar side of the Coraco-brachialis muscle, and the subjacent fascia cautiously divided, so as to avoid wounding the internal cutaneous nerve or basilic vein, which sometimes run on the surface of the artery as high as the axilla. The fascia having been divided, it should be remembered, that the ulnar and internal cutaneous nerves lie on the inner side of the artery, the median on the outer side, the latter nerve being occasionally superficial to the artery in this situation, and that the venm comites are also in relation with the vessel, one on either side. These being carefully separated, the aneurism needle should be passed round the artery from the ulnar to the radial side. If two arteries are present in the arm, in consequence of a high division, they are usually placed side by side; and if they are exposed in an operation, the surgeon should endeavour to ascertain, by alternately pressing on each vessel, which of the two commu- nicates with the wound or aneurism, when a ligature may be applied accordingly; or if pulsation or haemorrhage ceases only when both vessels are compressed, both vessels may be tied, as it may be concluded that the two communicate above the seat of disease, or are reunited. It should also be remembered, that two arteries may be present in the arm in a case of high division, and that one of these may be found along the inner intermuscular septum, in a line towards the inner condyle of the humerus, or in the usual position of the brachial, but deeply placed beneath the common trunk : a knowledge of these facts will suggest the precautions necessary in every case, and indicate the measures to be adopted when anomalies are met with. In the middle of the arm the brachial artery may be exposed by making an incision along the inner margin of the Biceps muscle. The forearm being bent so as to relax the muscle, it should be drawn slightly aside, and the fascia being carefully divided, the median nerve will be exposed lying upon the artery (sometimes beneath); this being drawn inwards and the muscle outwards, the artery should be separated from its accompanying Teins and secured. In this situation the inferior profunda may be mistaken for the main trunk, especially if enlarged, from the collateral circulation having become established; this may be avoided by directing the incision externally towards the Biceps rather than inwards or backwards towards the Triceps. The lower part of the brachial artery is of extreme interest in a surgical point of view, on account of the relation which it bears to the veins most commonly opened in venesection. Of these vessels, the median basilic is the largest and most prominent, and, consequently, the one usually selected for the operation. It should be remembered, that this vein runs parallel with the brachial artery, from which it is separated by the bicipital fascia, and that in no case should this vessel be selected for venesection, except in a part which is not in contact with the artery, Collateral Gradation. After the application of a ligature to the brachial artery in the upper third of the arm, the circulation is carried on by branches from the circumflex and subscapular arteries, anastomosing with ascending branches from the superior profunda. If the brachial is tied below the origin of the profunda arteries the circulation is maintained by the branches of the profundae, anastomosing with the recurrent radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries. In two cases described by Mr. South,* in which the brachial artery had been tied some time previously, in one * a long portion of the artery had been obliterated, and sets of vessels are descending on either side from above the obliteration, to be received into others which ascend in a similar manner from below it. In the other, the obliteration is less exten- sive, and a single curved artery about as big as a crow-quill passes from the upper to the lower open part of the artery.’ The branches of the brachial artery are the Superior profunda. Nutrient artery. Muscular. The superior profunda arises from the inner and back part of the brachial, oppo- site the lower border of the Teres major, and passes backwards to the interval * Chelitjs’ Surgery, vol. ii. p. 254. See also White’s engraving referred to by Mr. South, of the anastomosing branches after ligature of the brachial, in White’s Cases in Surgery. Porta also gives a case (with drawings) of the circulation after ligature of both brachial and radial—Altcruzioni I 'atologiche dcfle Arterie. Inferior profunda. Anastomotica magna.