138 THE SKELETON. upper surface of the neclc of tho astragalus ; rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior surface presents two articular facets separated by a deep groove. The groove runs obliquely forwards and outwards, becoming gradually broader and deeper in front: it corresponds with a similar groove upon the upper surface of tho os calcis, and forms, when articulated with that bone, a canal, filled up in the recent state by the calcanco-astragaloid interosseous ligament. Of the two articular facets, the posterior is the larger, of an oblong form, and deeply concave from side to side ; the anterior, although nearly of equal length, is nar- rower, of an elongated oval form, convex longitudinally, and often subdivided into two by an elevated ridge; of these the posterior articulates with the lesser process of the os calcis; the anterior, with the upper surface of the calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. The internal surface presents at its upper part a pear-shaped articular facet for the inner malleolus, continuous above with the trochlear surface below the articular surface is a rough depression, for the attachment of the deej portion of the internal lateral ligament. The external surface presents a large triangular facet, concave from above downwards, for articulation with the external malleolus ; it is continuous above with the trochlear surface ; and in front of it is a rough depression for the attachment of the anterior fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. The anterior surface , convex and rounded, forms the head of the astragalus ; it is smooth, of an oval form, and directed obliquely inwards and downwards; it is continuous below with that part of the anterior facet on the under surface which rests upon the calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. The head is surrounded by a constricted portion, the neck of the astragalus. The posterior surface is narrow, and traversed by a groove, which runs obliquely downwards and inwards, and transmits the tendon of the Elexor longus pollicis. To ascertain to which foot it belongs, hold the bone with the broad articular surface upwards, and the rounded head forwards ; the lateral triangular articular surface for the external malleolus will then point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With four bones : tibia, fibula, os calcis, and scaphoid. The Scaphoid. The Scaphoid or Navicular bone, so called from its fancied resemblance to a boat, is situated at the inner side of the tarsus, between the astragalus behind and the three cuneiform bones in front. This bone may be distinguished by its form, being concave behind, convex and subdivided into three facets in front. The anterior surface, of an oblong form, is convex from side to side, and sub- divided by two ridges into three facets, for articulation with the three cuneiform bones. The posterior surface is oval, concave, broader externally than internally, and articulates with the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior surface is convex from side to side, and rough for the attachment of ligaments. The inferior is somewhat concave, irregular, and also rough for the attachment of ligaments. The mternal surface presents a rounded tubercular eminence, the tuberosity of the scaphoid, which gives attachment to part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. The external surf ace is broad, rough, and irregular, for the attachment of liga- mentous fibres, and occasionally presents a small facet for articulation with the cuboid bone. To ascertain to which foot it belongs, hold the bone with the concave articular surface backwards, and the convex dorsal surface upwards; the broad external surface will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With four bones : astragalus and three cuneiform ; occasionally also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Tibialis posticus. The Cuneiform Bones have received their name from their wedge-like shape. They form with the cuboid the most anterior row of the tarsus, being placed