252 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. The Rectus Abdominis is a long flat muscle, which extends along the whole length of the front of the abdomen, being separated from its fellow of the opposite side by the linea alba. It is much broader above than below, and arises by two tendons, tho external or larger being attached to the crest of the os pubis; the internal, smaller portion, interlacing with its fellow of the opposite side, and being connected with the ligaments covering the symphysis pubis. The fibres ascend vertically, and tbe muscle, becoming broader and thinner at its upper part, is inserted by three portions of unequal size into the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. Some fibres are occasionally connected with the costo-xiphoid ligaments, and side of the ensiform cartilage. The Rectus muscle is traversed by a series of tendinous intersections, which vary from two to five in number, and have received the name Lineae transversae. One of these is usually situated opposite the umbilicus, and two above that point; of the latter, one corresponds to the ensiform cartilage, and the other, to the interval between the ensiform cartilage and the umbilicus ; there is occasionally one below the umbilicus. These intersections pass transversely or obliquely across the muscle in a zigzag course; they rarely extend completely through its substance, some- times pass only halfway across it, and are intimately adherent to the sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. The Rectus is enclosed in a sheath (fig. 166) formed by the aponeuroses of tbe Oblique and Transversalis muscles, which are arranged in the following manner. When the aponeurosis of the Internal oblique arrives at the margin of the Rectus, it divides into two lamellae, one of which passes in front of the Rectus, blending with the aponeurosis of the External oblique ; the other, behind it, blending with the aponeurosis of the Transversalis : and these, joining again at its inner border, are inserted into the linea alba. This arrangement of the fascia? exists along the upper three-fourths of the muscle; at the commencement of the lower fourth, the posterior wall of the sheath terminates in a thin curved margin, or falciform edge, the concavity of which looks downwards towards the pubes ; the aponeuroses of all three muscles passing in front of the Rectus without any separation. The Rectus muscle, in the situation where its sheath is deficient, is separated from the peritoneum by the transversalis fascia. The Pyramidalis is a small muscle, triangular in shape, placed at the lower part of the abdomen, in front of the Rectus, and contained in the same sheath with that muscle. It arises by tendinous fibres from the front of the os pubis and the anterior pubic ligament ; the fleshy portion of the muscle passes upwards, diminishing in size as it ascends, and terminates by a pointed extremity, which is inserted into tbe linea alba, midway between tbe umbilicus and the os pubis. This muscle is sometimes found wanting on one or both sides ; the lower end of the Rectus then becomes proportionately increased in size. Occasionally, it has been found double on one side, or the muscles of the two sides are of unequal size. Sometimes its length exceeds what is stated above. The Quadratus Lumborum (fig. 161, p. 241) is situated in the lumbar region ; it is irregularly quadrilateral in shape, broader below than above, and consists of two portions. One portion arises by aponeurotic fibres from the ilio-lumbar ligament, and the adjacent portion of the crest of the ilium for about two inches, and is inserted into the lower border of the last rib, about half its length, and by four small tendons, into the apices of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae. The other portion of the muscle, situated in front of the preceding, arises from the upper borders of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, and fifth lumbar vertebrae, and is inserted into the lower margin of tbe last rib. Tbe Quadratus lumborum is contained in a sbeatli formed by tbe anterior and middle lamellae of the aponeurosis of origin of the Transversalis. Nerves. The abdominal muscles are supplied by the lower intercostal, ilio-hypo- o-asti-ic, and ilio-inguinal nerves. Tbe Quadratus lumborum receives filaments from tho anterior branches of tbe lumbar nerves. Tn the description of the abdominal muscles, mention lias frequently been made