INTERNAL ILIAC. 399 1 rrl ntpftl arising in succession from tbe latter portion. The obturator ateral sacral, and fhe laterftl saCral artery was as large as a crow’s quill, and irtery was ^ ftrtery of the 0"pp08ite 8ide, and with the middle aad a very free ana entirely obliterated as far as its point of connection but, on the distal side of the sac, it was continued down with the ftnei[n® .uft hiirh arly as i^ge in size as the femoral, being pervious about an dong the back of the» ^ anastoBniosing veSsel from the profunda.* In addition to ‘“ch Snninses of the uterine^and ovarian arteries; of the opposite vesical arteries; of the ?e branches of the internal iliac, with those from the inferior mesenteric; of the KfU1 fnv ortftrv bv means of its pubic branch, with the vessel of the opposite side, and ^thThe t ohmstric'and internal circumilex ; by the anastomoses of the circumflex and per- Si t hSes of the femoral, with the sciatic ; of the gluteal, with the posterior branches f ° ai arteries; of the ilio-lumbar, with the last lumbar; of the lateral sacral, with I middlfsa^Tand by the anastomoses of the circumflex iliac, with the ilio lumbar ind gluteal. Branches of the Internal Iliac. From the Posterior Trunk. Gluteal. Ilio-lumbar. Lateral sacral. From the Anterior Trunk. Superior vesical. Middle vesical. Inferior vesical. Middle hcemorrhoidal. Obturator. Internal pudic. Sciatic. r . , f Uterine. hi female. | Vagina, The superior vesical is that part of the foetal hypogastric artery which remains pervious after birth. It extends to the side of the bladder, distributing numerous oranches to the body and fundus of the organ. From one of these a slender vessel is derived, which accompanies the vas deferens in its course to the testis, ' where it anastomoses with the spermatic artery. This is the artery of the vas ieferens. Other branches supply the ureter. The middle vesical, usually a branch of the superior, is distributed to the base jf the bladder, and under surface of the vesiculse seminales. The inferior vesical arises from the anterior division of the internal iliac, in common with the middle hsemorrhoidal, and is distributed to the base of the bladder, the prostate gland, and vesiculse seminales. The branches distributed to the orostate communicate with the corresponding vessel of the opposite side. The middle hcemorrlioidal artery usually arises together with the preceding vessel. It supplies the rectum, anastomosing with the other hemorrhoidal arteries. The uterine artery passes downwards from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac to the neck of the uterus. Ascending, in a tortuous course, on the side of this viscus, between the layers of the broad ligament, it distributes branches to its substance, anastomosing, near its termination, with a branch from the ovarian artery. Branches from this vessel are also distributed to the bladder and ureter. The vaginal artery is analogous to the inferior vesical in the male ; it descends upon the vagina, supplying its mucous membrane, and sending branches to the neck of the bladder and contiguous part of the rectum. The Obturator Artery usually arises from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, frequently from the posterior. It passes forwards below the brim of the pelvis, to the canal in the upper border of the obturator foramen, and escaping from the pelvic cavity through this aperture, divides into an internal and an external branch. In the pelvic cavity this vessel lies upon the pelvic fascia, }>eneath the peritoneum, and a little below the obturator nerve ; and whilst passing through the obturator foramen, is contained in an oblique canal, formed by the horizontal branch of the pubes, above; and the arched border of the obturator membrane, below. Medico-Chirurgical 7Vans., vol. xvi.