ORGANS OR DIGESTION. 614 colli and Recti capitis antici muscles ; anteriorly, it is incomplete, and is attached in succession to the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx ; laterally, it is connected to the styloid processes and their muscles, and is in contact with the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves, and above, with a small part of the Internal pterygoid muscles. It has seven openings communicating with it: the two posterior nares, the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. The posterior nares are the two large apertures situated at the upper part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. The two Eustachian tubes open one at each side of the upper part of the pharynx, at the back part of the inferior meatus. Below the nasal fossae is the posterior surface of the soft palate and uvula, the large aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the cordiform opening of the larynx. The cesophayeal openiny is the lower contracted portion of the pharynx. Structure. The pharynx is composed of three coats : a mucous coat, a muscular layer, and a fibrous coat. The fibrous coat is situated between the mucous and muscular layers, and is called the pliarynyeal aponeurosis. It is thick above, where the muscular fibres are wanting, and is firmly connected to the basilar process of the occipital and petrous portion of the temporal bones. As it descends, it diminishes in thickness, aud is gradually lost. The mucous coat is continuous with that lining the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. It is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, as low down as on a level with the floor of the nares ; below that pioint, it is of the squamous variety. The muscular coat has been already described (p. 228). The pliarynyeal ylands are of two kinds: the simple, or compound follicular, which are found in considerable numbers beneath the mucous membrane, through- out the entire pharynx; and the racemose, which are especially numerous at the upper part of the pharynx, and form a thick layer, across the back of the fauces, between the two Eustachian tubes. The CEsophagus. The CEsophagus is a membranous canal, about nine inches in length, extending from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences at. the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, descends along the front of the spine, through the posterior mediastinum, passes through the diaphragm, and, entering the abdomen, terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach, opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. The general direction of'the oesophagus is vertical; but it presents two or three slight curvatures in its course. At its commence- ment, it is placed in the median line ; but it inclines to the left side as far as the root of the neck, gradually passes to the middle line again, and, finally again deviates to the left, as it passes forwards to the oesophageal opening of the Dia- phragm. The oesophagus also presents an autero-posterior flexure, corresponding to the curvature of the cervical and thoracic portions of the spine. It is the narrowest part of the alimentary canal, being most contracted at its commence- ment, and at the point where it passes through the Diaphragm. Relations. In the neck, the oesophagus is in relation, in front, with the trachea; and, at the lower part of the neck, where it projects to the left side, with the thyroid gland and thoracic duct; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column and Longus colli muscle ; on each side, it is in relation with the common carotid artery (especially the left, as it inclines to that side), aud part of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland ; the recurrent laryngeal nerves ascend between it and the trachea.