723 TRANS VERS ALIS MUSCLE. Poupart’s ligament at the inner side of the Internal oblique, being connected with that muscle, and also occasionally with the Transversalis. It passes along the outer side of the spermatic cord, descends with it through the external ring upon the front and sides of the cord, and forms a series of loops, which differ in thick- ness and length in different subjects. Those at the upper part of the cord are exceedingly short, but they become in succession longer and longer, the longest reaching down as low as the testicle, where a few are inserted into the tunica vaginalis. These loops are united together by areolar tissue, and form a thin covering over the cord, the fascia cremasterica. The fibres ascend along the inner -side of the cord, and are inserted by a small pointed tendon, into the crest of the os pubis and front of the sheath of the Rectus muscle. It will be observed, that the origin and insertion of the Cremaster is precisely ^similar to that of the lower fibres of the Internal oblique. This fact affords an easy explanation of the manner in which the testicle and cord are invested by :this muscle. At an early period of foetal life, the testis is placed at the lower iand back part of the abdominal cavity, but, during its descent towards the scrotum which takes place before birth, it passes beneath the arched border of the Internal oblique. In its passage beneath this muscle some fibres are derived from its •lower part, which accompany the testicle and cord into the scrotum. It occasionally happens that the loops of the Cremaster surround the cord, • some lying behind as well as in front. It is probable that, under these circum- - stances, the testis, in its descent, passed through instead of beneath the fibres of : :he Internal oblique. In the descent of an oblique inguinal hernia, which takes the same course as ;he spermatic cord, the Cremaster muscle forms one of its coverings. This muscle Decomes largely developed in cases of hydrocele and large old scrotal hernire. 'No such muscle exists in the female, but an analogous structure is developed in .hose cases where an oblique inguinal hernia descends beneath the margin of the Internal oblique. The Internal Oblique should be detached from Poupart’s ligament, separated from the Transversalis to the same extent as in the previous incisions, and reflected inwards on to the .heath of the Rectus (fig. 387). The circumflex iliac vessels, which lie between these two i: nuscles, form a valuable guide to their separation. The Transversalis muscle has been previously described (p. 251). Its lower >art is partly fleshy and partly tendinous in structure ; this portion arises from he outer third of Poupart’s ligament, and, arching downwards and inwards over he cord, terminates in an aponeurosis, which is inserted into the linea alba, the ■;rest of the pubes, and the pectineal line to the extent of an inch, forming, ogether with the Internal oblique, the conjoined tendon. Between the lower 1 >order of this muscle and Poupart’s ligament, a space is left in which is seen he fascia transversalis. The inguinal, or spermatic canal, contains the spermatic cord in the male, and he round ligament in the female. It is an oblique canal, about an inch and a ■ talf in length, directed downwards and inwards, and placed parallel with, and , little above, Poupart’s ligament. It communicates, abovo, with the cavity of he abdomen, by means of the internal abdominal ring, which is the point where he cord enters the spermatic canal; and terminates, below, at the external rin<r. t is bounded, in front, by the integument and superficial fascia, by the apo- leurosis of the External oblique throughout its whole length, and by the Internal •blique for its outer third; behind, by the conjoined tendon of the Internal •blique and Transversalis, the triangular ligament, transversalis fascia, and the •ubperitoneal fat and peritoneum; above, by the arched fibres of tho Internal •blique and Transversalis ; below, by the union of the fascia transversalis with Ampart’s ligament. That form of protrusion in which the intestine follows tho ourse of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal, is called oblique inguinal ernia. A 2