THYMUS GLAND. 685 Structure. Each lateral lobe is composed of numerous lobules, held together by delicate areolar tissue ; the entire gland being enclosed in an investing capsule of a similar, but denser structure. The primary lobules vary in size from a pin’s head to a small pea. Each lobule contains, in its interior, a small cavity, which is surrounded with smaller or secondary lobules, also hollow. The cavities of the secondary and primary lobules communicate ; those of the latter opening into the great central cavity, or reservoir of the thymus, which extends through the entire length of each lateral half of the gland. The central cavity is lined by a vascular membrane, which is prolonged into all the subordinate cavities, and contains a milk-white fluid resembling chyle. If the investing capsule and vessels, as well as the areolar tissue connecting the lobules, are removed from the surface of either lateral lobe, it will be seen that the central cavity is folded upon itself, and admits of being drawn out into a lengthened tubular cord, around which the primary lobules are attached in a spiral manner, like knots upon a rope. Such is the condition of the organ at an early period of its development; for Mr. Simon has shown, that the primitive' form of the thymus is a linear tube, from which, as its development proceeds, lateral diverticula lead outwards, the tube ultimately becoming obscure, from its surface being covered with numerous lobules. According to Oesterlen and Mr. Simon, the cavities in the secondary lobules are surrounded by rounded saccular dilatations or vesicles, which open into it. These vesicles are formed by a homogeneous membrane, enclosed in a dense capillary plexus. The whitish fluid contained in the vesicles and central cavity of the thymus contains numerous dotted corpuscles, similar to those found in the chyle. The corpuscles are flattened circular discs, measuring about y^oth an inch in- diameter. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the thymus are derived from the internal mammary, and from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins termi- nate in the left vena innominata, and in the thyroid veins. The lymphatics are of large size, arise in the substance of the gland, and are said to terminate in the internal jugular vein. Sir A. Cooper believed that these vessels carried into the blood the secretion formed in the substance of the thymus. The nerves are exceedingly minute ; they are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. Branches from the descendens noni and phrenic reach the investing capsule, but do not penetrate into the substance of the gland. Chemical Composition. The solid animal constituents of the thymus are albu- men and fibrine in large quantities, gelatine and other animal matters. The salts are alkaline and earthy phosphates, with chloride of potassium. It contains about 80 per cent, of water.