PELVIC PLEXUS. 563 o 0 They accompany tlio vesical arteries, and are distributed at the sido and base of the bladder. Numerous filaments also pass to the vesiculse seminales, and vas deferens : those accompanying the vas deferens join, on the spermatic cord, with branches from the spermatic plexus. The prostatic plexus is continued from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. The nerves composing it are of large size. They are distributed to the prostate gland, vesicul® seminales, and erectile structure of the penis. The nerves supplying the erectile structure of the penis consist of two sets, the small and large cavernous nerves. They are slender filaments, which arise from the fore part of the prostatic plexus ; and after joining with branches from the internal pudic nerve, pass for- wards beneath the pubic arch. The small cavernous nerves perforate the fibrous covering of the penis, near its roots. The large cavernous nerve passes forwards along the dorsum of the penis, joins with the dorsal branch of the pudic nerve, and is distributed to the corpus caver- nosum and spongiosum. The vaginal plexus arises from the lower part of the pelvic plexus. It is lost on the walls of the vagina, being distributed to the erectile tissue at its anterior part, and to the mucous membrane. The nerves composing this plexus contain, like the vesical, a large proportion of spinal nerve-fibres. The uterine nerves arise from the lower part of the hypogastric plexus, above the point where the branches from the sacral nerves join the pelvic plexus. They accompany the uterine arteries to the side of the organ between the layers of the broad ligament, and are distributed to the cervix and lower part of the body of the uterus, penetrating its substance. Other filaments pass separately to the body of the uterus and Fallopian tube. Branches from the hypogastric plexus accompany the uterine ayteries into the substance of the uterus. Upon these filaments ganglionic enlargements are found.* For a detailed account of the supply of nerves to the uterus, and for a description of the changes which these nerves and their ganglia undergo during pregnancy, the reader is referred to the papers on ‘The Anatomy of the Nerves of the Uterus,’ published by Dr. Robert Lee. This description of the sympathetic nerve accords with the works which are received as standard authorities in anatomy: but when the result of Dr. Robert Lee’s dissections shall have been published, our knowledge of the distribution of the sympathetic system of nerves will be placed upon a different footing. Dr. Lee’s beautiful dissections of the nerves of the heart, and those of the uterus, have been long known to anatomists. Other preparations, as accurate and beautiful as these, showing the communications between the pneumogastric .and sympathetic, and the supply of nerves to the oesophagus, stomach, and some other viscera, were recently exhibited by Dr. Lee to the College of Physicians; and it may be anticipated that Dr. Lee will soon be able to complete and publish the account of the whole sympathetic system,