^57 HEART—LEFT VENTRICLE. heart by its projection beyond the right ventricle. Its walls arc much thicker than those of the right ventricle, the proportion being- as 2 to 1 (Bizot). They are also thickest in the broadest part of the ventricle, becoming gradually thinner towards the base, and also towards the apex, which is the thinnest part. Its cavity should be opened, by making an incision through its anterior wall along the left side of the ventricular septum, and carrying it round the apex and along its posterior surface to the auriculo-ventricular opening. The following parts present themselves for examination : — _ . f Auriculo-ventricular. -rT f Mitral. Openings. < . . Valves. < r 0 [ Aortic. I semilunar. Chordae tendineae. Columnce carneae. The aunculo-ventncular opening is placed to the left of the aortic orifice, beneath the right auriculo-ventricular opening, opposite the centre of the sternum. It is a little smaller than the corresponding aperture of the opposite side; and, ike it, is broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. It is ■surrounded by a dense fibrous ring, covered by the lining membrane of the heart, and guarded by the mitral valve. The aortic opening is a small circular aperture, in front and to the right side of : he auriculo-ventricular, from which it is separated by one of the segments of [ he mitral valve. Its orifice is guarded by the semilunar valves. Its position •orresponds to the sternum, on a line with the lower border of the third left ■ ;ostal cartilage. The mitral valve is attached to the circumference of the auriculo-ventricular >rifice in the same way that the tricuspid valve is on the opposite side. It is ormed by a duplicature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue, v.nd contains a few muscular fibres. It is larger in size, thicker, and altogether stronger than the tricuspid, and consists of two segments of unequal size. The ; irger segment is placed in front, between the auriculo-ventricular and aortic ;rifices, and is said to prevent the filling of the aorta during the distension of the • entricle. Two smaller segments are usually found at the angle of junction of : he larger. The mitral valve-flaps are furnished with chordae tendinem : the mode ' f attachment of which is precisely similar to those on the right side ; but they : re thicker, stronger, and less numerous. The semilunar valves surround the orifice of the aorta; they are similar in ■ tructure, and in their mode of attachment, to those of the pulmonary artery, 'hey are, however, larger, thicker, and stronger than those of the right side ; le lunulce are more distinct, and the corpora Arantii larger and more prominent, between each valve and the cylinder of the aorta is a deep depression, the sinus rrtici (sinuses of Valsalva) ; they are larger than those at the root of the pulmo- ary artery. The columnce earners admit of a subdivision into three sets, like those upon the .ght side ; but they are smaller, more numerous, and present a dense interlace- ent, especially at .the apex, and upon the posterior wall. Those attached by one :tremity only, the musculi papillares, are two in number, being connected one to le anterior, the other to the posterior wall; they are of large size, and terminate r free rounded extremities, from which the chorda) tendinece arise. The jEndocardium is the serous membrane which lines the internal surface of ue heart; it assists in forming the valves by its reduplications, and is continuous ith the lining membrane of the great blood-vessels. It is a thin, smooth, trans- irent membrane, giving to the inner surface of the heart its glistening appear- lce. It is more opaque on the left than on the right side of the heart, thicker the auricles than in the ventricles, and thickest in the left auricle. It is thin 1 the musculi pectinati, and on the columnce carnece ; but thicker on the smooth irt of the auricular and ventricular walls, and on the tips of the musculi qnllares. U U