FRONTAL BONE. 27 prominent margin, which forms the upper boundary of the orbit, and separates the vertical from the horizontal portion of the bone. The outer part of the arch is sharp and prominent, affording to the eye, in that situation, considerable protection from injury ; the inner part is less prominent. At the inner third of this arch is a notch, sometimes converted into a foramen by a bony process, and called the supra-orbital notch or foramen. It transmits the supra-orbital artery, veins, and nerve. A small aperture is seen in the upper part of the notch, which transmits a vein from the diploe to join the ophthalmic vein. The supra-orbital arch terminates externally in the external angular process, and internally in the internal angular process. The external angular process is strong, prominent, and articulates with the malar bone : running upwards and backwards from it is a sharp curved crest, the temporal ridge, for the attachment of the temporal fascia; and beneath it a slight conca- vity, that forms the anterior part of the temporal fossa, and gives origin to the Temporal muscle. The internal angular processes are less marked than the external, and articulate with the lachrymal bones. Between the internal angular processes is a rough uneven interval, the nasal notch, which articulates in the middle line with the nasal bone, and on either side with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The notch is continuous below with a long pointed process, the nasal spine. Vertical Portion. Internal Surface (fig. 28). Along the middle line is a vertical groove, the edges of which unite below to form a ridge, the frontal crest: the groove lodges the superior longitudinal sinus, whilst its edges afford attach- 28.—Frontal Bone. Inner Surface. with, •with, Nasal, with Vl rpo.ndictdnr plate of Ethmoid I'ron tail Ni n u. s Expanded huso of jSfitxabl Sfit/c, forming part of Hoof' f A as a ment to the falx cerebri, foramen coeeuin, which is The crest terminates below at a small opening, tbe generally completed behind by the ethmoid. This