i73 SHOULDER-JOINT. ono; head of the Triceps ; externally, by the tendons of the Infraspinatus and refes^mor” and internally, by the tendon of the Subscapularis. The capsular igament usually presents three, openings : one at its inner side, below the coracoid orocess, partially filled up by the tendon of the Subscapularis ; it establishes a omiuunication between the synovial membrane of the joint and a bursa beneath :he tendon of that muscle. The second, which is not constant, is at the outer oart, where a communication sometimes exists between the joint and a bursal sac oelonging to the Infraspinatus muscle. The third is seen in the lower border of die lio-ament between the two tuberosities, for the passage of the long tendon of die Biceps muscle. The Coraco-liumercil or Accessory Ligament is a broad band which strengthens he upper and inner part of the capsular ligament. It arises from the outer border if the coracoid process, and passes obliquely downwards and outwards to the front 6f the great tuberosity of the humerus, being blended with the tendon of the ; jupraspinatus muscle. This ligament is intimately united to the capsular in the greater part of its extent. The Glenoid Ligament is a firm fibrous band attached round the margin of the .glenoid cavity. It is triangular on section, the thickest portion being fixed to the circumference of the cavity, the free edge being thin and sharp. It is continuous t hove with the long tendon of the Biceps muscle, which bifurcates at the upper cart of the cavity into two fasciculi, encircling the margin of the glenoid cavity r.nd uniting at its lower part. This ligament deepens the cavity for articulation, rnd protects the edges of the bone. It is lined by the synovial membrane. The Synovial Membrane lines the margin of the glenoid cavity and the fibro- ji artilaginous rim surrounding it; it is then reflected over the internal surface of he capsular ligament, covers the lower part and sides of the neck of the humerus, :nd is continued a short distance over the cartilage covering the head of the bone, 'he long tendon of the Biceps muscle which passes through the joint, is enclosed 31 a tubular sheath of synovial membrane, which is reflected upon it at the point • 'here it perforates the capsule, and is continued around it as far as the summit of he glenoid cavity. The tendon of the Biceps is thus enabled to traverse the arti- alation, but is not contained in the interior of the synovial cavity. The synovial lembrane communicates with a large bursal sac beneath the tendon of the Sub- lapularis, by an opening at the inner side of the capsular ligament; it also ccasionally communicates with another bursal sac, beneath the tendon of the afraspinatus, through an orifice at its outer part. A third bursal sac, which does ot communicate with the joint, is placed between the under surface of the deltoid ad the outer surface of the capsule. The Muscles in relation with the joint are, above, the Supraspinatus ; below, le long head of the Triceps ; internally, the Subscapulaias ; externally, the Infra- linatus, and Teres minor; within, the long tendon of the Biceps. The Deltoid placed most externally, and covers the articulation on its outer side, as well as . front and behind. The Arteries supplying the joint, are articular branches of the anterior and osterior circumflex, and suprascapular. The Nerves are derived from the circumflex and suprascapular. Actions. The shoulder-joint is capable of movement in every direction, forwards, i ickwards, abduction, adduction, circumduction, and rotation. The most striking peculiarities in this joint are : 1. The large size of the head of ie humerus in comparison with the depth of the glenoid cavity, even when implemented by the glenoid ligament. 2. The looseness of the capsule of the int. 3. The intimate connection of the capsule with the muscles attached to the iad of the humerus. 4. The peculiar relation of the biceps tendon to the joint. It is in consequence of the relative size of the two articular surfaces that the int enjoys so free movement in every possible direction. When these movements the arm are arrested in the shonlder-joint by the contact of the bony surfaces, id by the tension of the corresponding fibres of the capsule together with that of