PENIS. 699 The mucous membrane covering the glans penis contains no sebaceous glands; but projecting from its free suriaco are a number oi. small highly sensitive papilleo. ,-i , j * : The penis is composed of a mass of erectile tissue, enclosed in three cylindrical fibrous compartments. 01 these, two, the corpora cavernosa, are placed side by side along the upper part of the organ ; the third, or corpus spongiosum, encloses the urethra, and is placed below. i j The Corpora Cavernosa form the chief part of the body of the penis. They consist of two fibrous cylindrical tubes, placed side by side, and intimately con- nected alono- the median line for their anterior three-fourths, their posterior fourth beino- separated to form the two crura, by which the penis is connected to the rami of the pubes. Each crus commences by a thick-pointed process in front of the tuberosity of the ischium; and, near its junction with its fellow, presents a slight enlargement, named, by Kobelt, the bulb of tlio corpus cavernosum. Just beyond this point they become constricted, and retain an equal diameter to their anterior extremity, where they form a single rounded end, which is received :into a fossa in the base of the glans penis. A median groove on the upper surface lodges the dorsal vein of the penis, and the groove on the under surface receives the corpus spongiosum. The root of the penis is connected to the symphysis pubis by the suspensory ligament. Structure. Each corpus cavernosum consists of a strong fibrous envelope, ■ enclosing a fibrous reticular structure, which contains erectile tissue in its meshes. It is separated from its fellow by an incomplete fibrous septum. The -fibrous investment is extremely dense, of considerable thickness, and highly • elastic ; it not only invests the surface of the organ, but sends off numerous fibrous bands (trabeculae) from its inner surface, as well as-from the surface of the septum, \which cross its interior in all directions, subdividing it into a number of separate icompartments, which present a spongy structure, in which the erectile tissue is ^contained. The trabeoular structure fills the interior of the corpora cavernosa. Its com- jponent fibres are larger and stronger round the circumference than at the centre > of the corpora cavernosa * they are also thicker behind than in front. The inter- spaces, on the contrary, are larger at the centre than at the circumference, their long diameter being directed transversely ; and they are largest anteriorly. They ire lined by a layer of squamous epithelium. The fibrous septum forms an imperfect partition between the two corpora caver- nosa ; it is thick and complete behind ; but in front it is incomplete, and consists }f a number of vertical bands of fibrous tissue, which are arranged like the teeth )f a comb, hence the name, septum, pectiniforme; these bands extend between the lorsal and the urethral surface of the corpora cavernosa. The fibrous investment and septum consist of longitudinal bands of white fibrous Issue, with numerous elastic and muscular fibres. The trabecula) also consist of vhite fibrous tissue, elastic fibres, and plain muscular fibres, and enclose arteries ind nerves. The Corpus Spongiosum encloses the urethra, and is situated in the groove on ihe under surface of the corpora cavernosa. It commences posteriorily in front of he deep perinneal fascia, between the diverging crura of the corpora cavernosa, vhere it forms a rounded enlargement, the bulb; and terminates, anteriorly, in not her expansion, the glans penis, which overlaps the anterior rounded extremity ■f the corpora cavernosa. The central portion, or body of the corpus spongiosum, 3 cylindrical, and tapers slightly from behind forwards. The bulb varies in size in different subjects ; it receives a fibrous investment rom the anterior layer of the deep perineeal fascia, and is surrounded by the Accelerator urinao muscle. The urethra enters the bulb nearer its upper than its ower surface, being surrounded by a layer of erectile tissue, a thin prolongation >f which is continued backwards round the membranous and prostatic portions >f the canal to the nock of the bladder, lying immediately beneath the mucous