645 SPLEEN. cardiac end of the stomach, forming the gastro-splenic omentum, which contains between its layers tho splenic vessels and nerves, and tho vasa brevia. The internal surface is in relation, in front, with the great end of the stomach; below, with the tail of the pancreas ; and behind, with tho left crus of the Diaphragm and corresponding suprai’enal capsule. The upper end, thick and rounded, is in relation with the Diaphragm, to which it is connected by a fold of peritoneum, the suspensory ligament. The lower end is pointed; it is in relation with the left extremity of the transverse arch of the colon. The anterior margin is free, rounded, and often notched, especially below. The posterior margin is rounded, and lies in relation with the left kidney, to which it is connected by loose areolar fissure. The spleen is held in its position by two folds of peritoneum : one, the gastro- splenic omentum, connects it with the stomach ; and the other, the suspensory ligament, with the under surface of the Diaphragm. 351.—Transverse Section of the Spleen, showing the Trabecular Tissue and the Splenic Vein and its Branches. The size and weight of the spleen are liable to very extreme variations at different periods of life, in different individuals, and in the same individual under different conditions. In the adult, in whom it attains its greatest size, it is usually above five inches in length, three or four inches in breadth, and an inch or an inch and a half in thickness, and weighs about seven ounces. At birth, its weight, in proportion to the entire body, is almost equal to what is observed in the adult, being as 1 to 350; whilst in the adult it varies from 1 to 320 and 400. In old 7,gp, the organ not only decreases in weight, but decreases considerably in pro- portion to the entire body, being as 1 to 700. The size of the spleen is increased luring the after digestion, and varies considerably, according to the state of nutrition of the body, being large in highly-fed, and small in starved animals. In intermittent and other fevers, it becomes much enlarged, weighing occasionallv rom 18 to 20 pounds. Structure. The spleen is invested by two coats : an external serous, and an nteraal fibrous elastic coat. The external, or serous coat, is derived from the peritoneum ; it is thin, smoftth, ind in the human subject intimately adherent to tho fibrous elastic coat. It nvests almost the entire organ ; being reflected from it, at tho hilum, on to tho rrcat end of the stomach, and at tho upper end of the organ on to tho Dia- phragm.