66 4 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. EPIGLOTTIS Tho lower border is connected to the cricoid cartilage, in the median line, by the crico-thyroid membrane ; and, on each side, by the Crico-tliyroid muscle. Tho posterior borders, thick and rounded, terminate, above, in tho superior cornua; and, below, in tho inferior cornua. The two superior cornua are long and narrow, directed backwards, upwards, and inwards; and terminate in a conical extremity, which gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid ligament. The two inferior cornua are short and thick ; they pass forwards and inwards, and present, on their inner surfaces, a small, oval, articular facet for articulation with tho side of the cricoid cartilage. The posterior border receives the insertion of the Stylo-pharyngeus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The Cricoid Cartilage is so called from its resemblance to 360.—The Cartilages of the Larynx, a signet ring (rplrn, a ring). Posterior View. It is smaller but thicker and stronger than the thyroid carti- lage, and forms the lower and back part of the cavity of the larynx. Its anterior half is narroAv, convex, affording attachment in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and, be- hind those, to part of the Inferior constrictor. Its posterior half is very broad, both from side to side and from above downwards ; it presents in the middle line a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longi- tudinal fibres of the oesophagus ; and on either side a broad depres- sion for the Crico-arytsenoideus posticus muscle. At the point of junction of the two halves of the cartilage on either side, is a small round elevation, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The loiver border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and con- nected to the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. Its upper border is directed ob- liquely upwards and backwards, owing to the great depth of its posterior surface. It gives at- tachment, in front, to the crico- thyroid membrane ; at the sides, to part of the same membrane and to the lateral Crico-arytenoid muscle ; behind, the highest point of the upper border is surmounted on each sido by a smooth oval surface, for articulation with the arytenoid cartilage. Between the articular surfaces is a slight notch, for the attachment of part of the Arytnenoideus muscle. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane. THYROID Cuneiform CartUfacji ARYTENOID ^Zwscrtion, of CRICO—ARYT^NOJD PBBTJC1.SETUATERAUS CRICOI D Arffot/Zar facet fom Arytenoid Cartil<xc/c Artec ul<vr fevee-t f refer. Go •f Thyroid G* ITANO I Cart0.**, la