142 THE SKELETON. the second of tho great toe, witli the first phalanx, and of the other toes, with the first and third phalanges ; the third with the second row. Attachment of Muscles. To the first phalanges, great toe : innermost tendon of Extensor brevis digitorum, Abductor pollicis, Adductor pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Transversus pedis. Second toe : First and Second dorsal interosseous. Third toe : Third dorsal and First plantar interosseous. Fourth toe : Fourth dorsal and Second plantar interosseous. Fifth toe : Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Abductor minimi digiti, and Third plantar interosseous.—Second phalanges, great toe : Extensor longus pollicis, Flexor longus pollicis. Other toes: Flexor brevis digitorum, one slip from the Extensor brevis digitorum (except in the little toe), and Extensor longus digitorum.—Third phalanges : two slips from the common tendon of the Extensor longus and Extensor brevis digitorum, and the Flexor longus digitorum. Development op the Foot. (Fig. 115.) The Tai’sal bones are each developed by a single centre, excepting the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior extremity. The centres make their appear- ance in the following order : in the os calcis, at the sixth month of foetal life ; in 115.—Plan of the Development of the Foot. r sis Tarsus ^ / Cwtre. for each lone icrcejtt Os Calcis --App.f JO.h y.A icnites afterpuberty Metatarsus 2 Centres for each lone ■t for SthafS 4 for Digital Extremity ecrcegot '/.fh Phalanges 2 Centres for earJi. Iona ) for Shaft ffjrMttatarsalUxt.Y Appears 51 y‘r ] Unite, )8-2P$ yg App. 7 A 7cA App?. fA wh—i Unite 18-20 yS Avpl&Sy.r- App.uf." Voiile ly-fihfl —, AjfjP’ —' Aw.c-7~.jx | Unite i7-1SV. App. £-4 nun—^ Apv.6# y.Vs. , Unite /J-18yIfE' J App- T-‘ ujA-fft: £2^3 the astragalus, about the seventh month; in the cuboid, at the ninth month; ex- ternal cuneiform, during the first year; internal cuneiform in the third year; middle cuneiform and scaphoid in tho fourth year, The epiphysis for the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis appears at the tenth year, and unites with the rest of the bone soon after puberty.