SYMPATHETIC NE LIVE. 562 294.—Ganglia and Nerves of the Gravid Uterus at tho end of the Ninth Month. After Ur. li. Lee. A. The fundus and body of the uterus, having the peritoneum dissected ofE from the left side. B. The vagina covered with nerves proceeding from the inferior border of the left hypogastric ganglion. C. The rectum. V. the left ovarium and Fallopian tube. E. Tho trunk of the left spermatic vein and artery surrounded by the left spermatic ganglion. F. The aorta divided r.little above the origin of the right spermatic artery, and about three inches above its division into the two common iliac arteries. G-. The vena cava. H. Trunk of the right spermatic vein entering the vena cava. I. Right ureter. K. The two cords Of the great sympathetic nerve passing down along the front of the aorta. L. Trunk of the inferior mesenteric artery, passing off from the aorta, and covered with a great plexus of nerves sent off from the left and right cords of the great sympathetic. M. M. The two cords of the great sympathetic passing down below the bifurcation of the aorta to the point where they separate into the right and left hypogastric nerves. N. The fight hypogastric nerve with its artery injected pro- ceeding to the neck of the uterus, to terminate in the right hypogastric, ganglion. O. 'the left hypogastric nerve where it is entering the left hypogastric ganglion, and giving olf branches to the left subperitonenl ganglion. P. Haemorrhoidal nerves accompanying the htemoffhoidal artery and proceeding ffom the great plexus which surrounded the inferior mesenteric artery. Q. The sacral nerves entering the whole outer surface of the hypo- gastric gangb'on. It. The left hypogastric ganglion with its arteries injected. S. The nerves of the vagina. T. Nerves with an injected artery proceeding from the upper part of the left hypogastric ganglion along the body of the uterus, and terminating in the left spermatic ganglion. U. Continuation of these nefves and the branches which they give off to tile snbperitoneal plexuses. V. The same nefves passing Upward beneath the subperitonea! plexuses, and anastomosing freely with them. W. Tho left spermatic ganglion, in which the nerves and artery from the hypogastric ganglion, and tho branches of tho left snbperitoneal plexuses terminate, and from which tho nerves of the fundus uteri are Supplied. X. The left snbperitoneal plexuses covering the body of the uterus. Y. The left snbperitoneal ganglion, with numerous branches of nerves extending between it and the left hypogastric nerve and ganglion. Z. Tue left common iliac, artery cut across and turned aside, that the left hypogastric nerve and ganglion might be traced and exposed.