lxxv THE NERVES. formation also of the smaller plexuses at the periphery of the body, there is a free interchange of the fasciculi and primitive fibrils. In each case, however, the individual filaments remain separate and distinct, and do not inosculate with each other. It is probable that, through this interchange of fibres, the different branches passing off from a plexus have a more extensive connection with the spinal cord than if they each had proceeded to be distributed without such connection with other nerves. Consequently, the parts supplied by these nerves have more extended relations with the nervous centres; by this means, also, groups of muscles may be associated for combined action. The Sympathetic nerve consists of tubular and gelatinous fibres, inter- mixed with a varying proportion of filamentous areolar tissue, and enclosed in a sheath formed of fibro-areolar tissue. The tubular fibres are, for the most part, smaller than those composing the cerebro-spinal nerves; their double contour is less distinct, and, according to Rem alt, they present nuclei similar to those found in the gelatinous nerve-fibres. Those branches of the sympathetic which present a well-marked grey colour, are composed more especially of gelatinous nerve-fibres, intermixed with a few tubular fibres; whilst those of a white colour contain more of the tubular fibres, and a few gelatinous. Occasionally, the grey and white cords run together in a single nerve, without any intermixture, as in the branches of communication between the sympathetic ganglia and the spinal nerves, or in the communicating cords between the ganglia. The nerve-fibres, both of the cerebro-spinal and sympathetic system, convey impressions of a two-fold kind. The sensory nerves, called also centripetal or afferent nerves, transmit to the nervous centres impressions made upon the peripheral extremities of the nerves, and in this way the mind, through the medium of the brain, becomes conscious of external objects. The motor nerves, called also centrifugal or efferent nerves, transmit impressions from the nervous centres to the parts to which the nerves are distributed, these impressions either exciting muscular contractions, or influencing the processes of nutrition, growth, and secretion. Terminations of Nerves.—By the expression ‘ the termination of nerve- fibres ’ is signified their connections with the nerve centres and with the parts which they supply. The former are called their central, the latter their peripheral terminations. With regard to the central terminations of the nerves, little is as yet certainly known.* The nerve-cells, or nerve-corpuscles, above figured, have been regarded as the central origin of the fibres with which they are connected ; and it is very probable that in many cases they are so. There are instances, however, in which such cells occur as mere nucleated swellings in the course of a nerve, and in these cases they obviously cannot be regarded as being in any sense the origins of the nerves. In other cases, as in the nerve-cells in the anterior horn of the grey matter of the cord, there are numerous pro- * The most recent author, and one of the most distinguished observers on this subject, Max Schultze, speaks thus: ‘ In the present state of our knowledge, we are not in a position to assign its central origin to any single primitive fibril of the nerveus system, however certainly wo may have discovered the peripheral terminations of a great port of them. Schultze, in Strieker’s Hand buck, 1868, p. 134.