CCELIAC AXIS. 3»7 Branches of the Abdominal Aorta. Phrenic. r Gastric. Cceliac axis. < Hepatic. l_ Splenic. Superior mesenteric. Suprarenal. Renal. Spermatic. Inferior mesenteric. Lumbar. Sacra media. The branches may be divided into two sets : 1. Those supplying the viscera. 2. Those distributed to the walls of the abdomen. Visceral Branches. Parietal Branches. Cceliac axis. Splenic. Sacra media. Superior mesenteric. Inferior mesenteric. Suprarenal. Renal. Spermatic. C(eliac Axis. (Fig. 223.) To expose this artery, raise the liver, draw down the stomach, and then tear through the layers of the lesser omentum. The Cceliac axis is a short thick trunk, about half an inch in length, which arises from the aorta, opposite the margin of the Diaphragm, and passing nearly horizontally forwards (in the erect posture), divides into three large branches, the gastric, hepatic, and splenic, occasionally giving olf one of the phrenic 1 arteries. Relations. It is covered by the lesser omentum. On the right side, it is in relation with the right semilunar ganglion, and the lobus Spigelii; on the left side, with the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac end of the stomach. Below, it rests ■ upon the upper border of the pancreas. The Gastric Artery (Goronaria ventriculi), the smallest of the three branches of the cceliac axis, passes upwards and to the left side, to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, distributing branches to the oesophagus, which anastomose with the aortic oesophageal arteries; others supply the cardiac end of the stomach, inoscu- lating with branches of the splenic artery: it then passes from left to right, along the lesser curvature of the stomach to the pylorus, lying in its course between the layers of the lesser omentum, and giving branches to both surfaces of the organ : , at its termination it anastomoses with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. The Hepatic Artery in the adult is intermediate in size between the gastric . and splenic; in the foetus, it is the largest of the three branches of the coeliac axis. It passes upwards to the right side, between the layers of the lesser ' omentum, and in front of the foramen of Winslow, to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, right and left, which supply the cor- responding lobes of that organ, accompanying the ramifications of the vena port® and hepatic duct. The hepatic artery, in its course along the right border of the lesser omentum, is in relation with the ductus communis choledocus and portal vein, the duct lying to the right of tho artery, and the vena port® behind. Its branches are the Pyloric. Gastro-duodenalis. Cystic. {Gastro-epiploica dextra. Pancreatico-duodenalis. c c 2