c GENERAL ANATOMY. analogous to the derma of the skin; and is in fact continuous with it at the orifices of the body. The corium consists, as it is usually described, of a transparent structureless basement-membrane next to the epithelium, supported by a fibro-vascular layer of variable thickness below it, and this merging into the sub-mucous areolar tissue. It is only in some situations that the basement-membrane can be demonstrated. The fibro-vascular layer of the corium contains, besides the white and yellow fibrous tissue and the vessels, muscular fibre-cells, nerves, and lymphatics, in various proportions. Embedded in it are found numerous glands, and projecting out of it are processes (villi and papillse) analogous to the papilla} of the skin. These glands and processes, however, exist only at certain parts, and it will be more convenient to refer for their description to the sequel, where the parts are described in which they occur. Thus the mucous glands are described in the account of the mouth (p. 601), the stomach (p. 624), the intestines (pp. 628, 634), &c., the papilke and villi with that of the tongue (p. 565). The synovial membranes are analogous in structure to the serous, but differ from them in the nature of their secretion, which rather resembles mucus. They are described on p. 144. SECRETING GLANDS. The secreting glands are organs in which the blood circulating in capil- lary vessels is brought into contact with the epithelial cells of a mucous membrane, whereby certain elements are separated (c secreted ’) out of the blood, and are poured into the mucous cavity. This cavity is arranged in the form of a ramifying duct, the secreting cells lying in, or touching, the terminal ramifications (or more correctly the commencing radicles) of the duct. In size the glands vary extremely: thus the liver weighs nearly four pounds, while many of the mucous glands are only visible to the naked eye when distended with secretion: and they vary not lees in structure. Thus the structure of the liver is so complex that it can hardly yet be regarded as known with absolute certainty, while there are a great many glands which consist either of a single tube lined with epithelium, on the outer side of which the blood circulates, or even a simple closed sac which opens when it becomes charged with secretion. The great majority of glands, however, can be reduced ideally to a very simple form, viz. to an involution more or less complex of the basement- membrane, carrying of course its epithelium with it, and having the capil- lary vessels distributed on its attached surface. If this involution be per- fectly simple an open tube results, as in the stomach (see Fig. 335, p. 624), or the common mucous crypts of the urethra, and should the mouth of such a tube become closed, a simple follicle is formed, as in the intestine (Figs. 339, 343, pp. 629, 634). Branches projecting out from the bottom of this tube constitute the simplest form of racemose gland. The most rudimentary condition of such a gland is shown in the branched tubes of the gastric mucous membrane, figured on p. 624. If such a tube be conceived of as divided into branches as well as branching out at its