TIBIO-FIBULAE. i93 Popliteus muscle. Rotation outwards (or supination) is chocked by the posterior crucial ligament. It is effected mainly by the Biceps. The main function of the crucial ligaments is to act as a direct bond of union between the tibia and femur, preventin'’- the former bone from being carried too far backwards or forwards. They also assist the lateral ligaments in resisting any lateral bending of the joint. The interarticular cartilages are intended, as it seems, to adapt the surface of the tibia in the shape of the femur to a certain extent, so as to fill up the intervals which would otherwise be left in the varying positions of the joint, and to interrupt the jars which would be so frequently transmitted up the limb in jumping or falls on the feet. The patella is a great defence to the knee-joint from any injury in- dicted in front, and it distributes upon a large and tolerably even surface during kneeling the pressure which would otherwise fall upon the prominent ridges of the condyles : it also affords leverage to the Quadriceps extensor muscle to act upon the tibia, and Mr. Ward has pointed out* how this leverage varies in the various positions of the joint, so that the action of the muscle produces velocity at the ex- pense of force in the commencement of extension, and on the contrary, at the close if extension tends to diminish the velocity, and therefore the shock to the ligaments; whilst in the standing position it draws the tibia powerfully forwards, and thus naintains it in its place. The folds of synovial membrane and the fatty processes contained in them act, unS it seems, mainly as padding to fill up interspaces and obviate concussions. The bursaa in connection with the synovial membrane will be found described in onnection with the regional anatomy of the popliteal space. III. Articulation between the Tibia and Fibula. The articulations between the tibia and fibula are effected by ligaments which onnect both extremities, as well as the shafts of the bone. They may, con- sequently, be subdivided into three sets)-:—1. The Superior Tibio-Fibular articula- ion. 2. The Middle Tibio-Fibular articulation. 3. The Inferior Tibio-Fibular rrticulation. 1. Superior Tibio-Fibular Articulation. This articulation is an arthrodial joint. The contiguous surfaces of the bones resent two flat oval surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by he following ligaments :— Anterior Superior Tibio-Fibular. Posterior Superior Tibio-Fibular. The Anterior Superior Ligament (fig. 141) consists of two or three broad and at bands, which pass obliquely upwards and inwards from the head of the fibula ) the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The Posterior Superior Ligament is a single thick and broad band, which passes om the back part of the head of the fibula to the back part of the outer tuberosity t? the tibia. It is covered by the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. A Synovial Membrane lines this articulation. It is occasionally continuous with ; lat of the knee-joint at its upper and back part. 2. Middle Tibio-Fibular Articulation. An interosseous membrane extends between the contiguous margins of the tibia id fibula, and separates the muscles on the front from those on the back of the g. It consists of a thin aponeurotic lamina composed of oblique fibres, which, iss between the interosseous ridges on the two bones. It is broader above than flow, and presents at its upper part a large oval aperture for the passage of the * ‘Human Osteology,’ p. 405. O