666 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. below to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and above to the upper border of tho inner surface of the hyoid bone : being separated from the posterior surface of tho hyoid bone by a synovial bursa. It is thicker in the middle lino than at either side, in which situation it is pierced by the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The two lateral thyro-hyoid ligaments are rounded, elastic cords, which pass between the superior cornua of the thyroid cartilage and the extremities of the greater cornua of the hyoid bone. A small cartilaginous nodule (cartilago triticea), sometimes bony, is found in each. The ligaments connecting tho thyroid cartilage to the cricoid are also three in number ; the crico-thyroid membrane, and the capsular ligaments and synovial membrane. The crico-thyroid membrane is composed mainly of yellow elastic tissue. It is of triangular shape ; thick in front, where it connects together the contiguous margins of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages ; thinner at each side, where it extends from the superior border of the cricoid cartilage, to the inferior margin of the true vocal cords, with which it is closely united in front. The anterior portion of the crico-thyroid membrane is convex, concealed on each side by the Crico-thyroid muscle, subcutaneous in the middle line, and crossed horizontally by a small anastomotic arterial arch, formed by the junction of the two crico-thyroid arteries. The lateral portions are lined internally by mucous membrane, and covered by the lateral Crico-arytenoid and Thyro-arytenoid muscles. A capsular ligament encloses the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage on each side. The articulation is lined by synovial membrane. The ligaments connecting the arytenoid cartilages to the cricoid, are two thin and loose capsular ligaments connecting together the articulating surfaces lined internally by synovial membrane, and strengthened behind by a strong posterior crico-arytenoid ligament, which extends from the cricoid to the inner and back part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The ligaments of the epiglottis are the hvo-epiglottic, the thyro-epiglottic, and the three glosso-epiglottic folds of mucous membrane which connect the epiglottis to the sides and base of the tongue. The latter have been already described. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is an elastic fibrous band, which extends from the anterior surface of the epi- glottis, near its apex, to the of the hyoid bone. The thyro- epiglottic liga- ment is a long, slender, elastic cord, which connects the apex of the epiglottis with the angle of the thyroid cartilage, immediately beneath the median notch, above the attachment of the vocal cords. larynx (fig. 361) is a triangu- lar or cordiform opening, wide in front, narrow behind, and g obliquely downwards and backwards. It is bounded in front by tho epiglottis; behind, by the apices of the arytenoid cartilages, and tho cornicula laryngis ; and laterally, by a fold of mucous Interior of the Larynx. The superior aperture of the posterior surface of the body 361.—The Larynx and adjacent parts, seen from above. A-~\rlv r: mW. £7Z77? Yoral carets^ Yenl-nch ItcLwie^ them arrtem?*. ~ fcU cj- Ton a**