THE STOMACH. 623 On looking into tho pyloric end of the stomach, the mucous membrane is found projecting inwards in the form ot a circular field, the pylorus, leaving a narrow circular aperture, about half an inch in diameter, by which the stomach commu- nicates with the duodenum. The pylorus is formed by a reduplication of tho mucous membrane of the stomach, containing numerous muscular fibres, which are aggregated into a thick circular ring, the longitudinal fibres and serous membrane being continued over the fold without assisting in its formation. The aperture is occasionally oval. Sometimes, the circular fold is replaced by two crescentic folds, placed, one above, and the other below, the pyloric orifice ; and, more rarely, there is only one crescentic fold. Structure. The stomach consists of four coats : a sei’ous, a muscular, a cellular, and a mucous coat, together with vessels and nerves. Tho serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and covers the entire surface of the organ, excepting along the greater and lesser curvatures, at the points of attachment of the greater and lesser omenta; here the two layers of peritoneum leave a small triangular space, along which the nutrient vessels and nerves pass. The muscular coat (fig. 335) is situated immediately beneath the serous covering. It consists of three sets of fibres : longitudinal, circular, and oblique. 334.—The Muscular Coat of the Stomach. The longitudinal fibres are most superficial; they are continuous with the longi tudinal fibres of the oesophagus, radiating in a stellate manner from the cardfac orifice. . They are most distinct along the curvatures, especially the lesser • but are dist^uted °ver the surfaces. At the pyloric end, they are more intestfne 1S^nbUCOntinuOUS with the longitudinal fibres of the small a uniform %or overt he whole extent of the stomach, amplnM longitudinal fibres. At the pylorus they are most abundant, and are thffnM f lnt° a circular nn£> whlch projects into the cavity, and forms, with rm 71 • rrm°rjUS membrano covering its surface, tho pyloric valve, ine obupue fibres are hmited chiefly to the cardiac end of the stomach, where