XC1V GENERAL ANATOMY. I lie nails, in structure, consist of cells having a laminated arrangement, and these are essentially similar to those composing the epidermis. The deepest layer of cells which lie in contact with the papillae at the root and under surface of the nail, are of elongated form, arranged perpendicularly to the surface, and provided with nuclei; those which succeed these are of a rounded or polygonal form, the more superficial ones becoming broad, thin, and flattened, and so closely compacted together as to make the limits of each cell very indistinct. It is by the successive growth of new cells at the root and under surface of the body of the nail, that it advances forwards, and maintains a due thickness, whilst, at the same time, the growth of the nail in the proper direction is secured. As these cells in their turn become displaced by the growth of new cells, they assume a flattened form, lose their nuclei, and finally become closely compacted together into a firm dense, horny texture. In chemical composition, the nails resemble the epidermis. According to Mulder, they contain a somewhat larger proportion of carbon and sulphur. The' Hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, and consist essentially of the same structure as that membrane. They are found on nearly every part of the surface of the body, excejoting the palms of the hands and soles of the feet, and vary much in length, thickness, and colour in different parts of the body and in different races of mankind. In some parts they are so short as not to project beyond the follicles containing them ; in other parts, as upon the scalp, they are of considerable length ; along the margin of the eyelids and upon the face, they are remarkable for their thickness. A hair consists of a root, the part implanted in the skin; the shaft, the portion projecting from its surface, and the point. They generally present a cylindrical or more or less flattened form, and a reniform outline upon a transverse section. The root of the hair presents at its extremity a bulbous enlargement, which is whiter in colour, and softer in texture, than the stem, and is lodged in a follicular involution of the epidermis, called the hair-follicle. When the hair is of considerable length, the follicle extends into the sub- cutaneous cellular tissue. The hair-follicle is bulbous at its deep extremity, like the hair which it contains, and has opening into it, near its free extremity, the orifices of the ducts of one or more sebaceous glands. In structure, the hair-follicle consists of two coats: an outer or dermic, and an inner or cuticular. The outer coat is formed mainly of areolar tissue; it is continuous with the corium, is highly vascular, and supplied by numerous minute nervous filaments. The inner or cuticular lining is continuous with the epidermis, and, at the bottom of the hair-follicle, with the root of the hair ; this cuticular lining resembles the epidermis in the peculiar rounded form and soft character of those cells which lie in contact with the outer coat of the hair-follicle, and the thin, dry, and scaly character of those which lie near the surface of the hair, to which they are closely adherent. When the hair is plucked from its follicle, cuticular lining most commonly adheres to it, and forms what is called the root-sheath. At the bottom of each hair-follicle is a small conical vascular eminence or papilla, similar in every respect to those found upon the surface of the skin; it is continuous with the dermic layer of the follicle, is highly vascular, and probably supplied with neivous