THE SKELETON. 10S the trapezium. The internal surface is concave and smooth below, for articu- lation with the os magnum ; rough above, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. To ascertain to which side this bone belongs, lot the broad dorsal surface be held upwards, and the inferior concavo-convox surface forwards ; the internal con- cave surface will then point to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With four bones : the scaphoid above, second metacarpal bone below, trapezium externally, os magnum internally. Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Os Magnum is the largest bone of the carpus, and occupies the centre of the wrist. It presents above a rounded portion or head, which is received into the concavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones ; a constricted portion or neck; and, below, the body. The superior surface is rounded, smooth, and articulates with the semilunar. The inferior surface is divided by two ridges into three facets, for articulation with the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones; that for the third (the middle facet) being the largest of the three. The posterior or dorsal surface is broad and rough ; the anterior or palmar, narrow, rounded, and also rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface articulates with the trapezoid by a small facet at its anterior inferior angle, behind which is a rough depression for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. Above this is a deep and rough groove, which forms part of the neck, and serves for the attach- ment of ligaments, bounded superiorly by a smooth convex surface, for articulation with the scaphoid. The internal surface articulates with the unciform by a smooth, concave, oblong facet, which occupies its posterior and superior parts ; and is rough in front, for the attachment of an interosseous ligament. To ascertain to which hand this bone belongs, the rounded head should be held upwards, and the broad dorsal surface forwards ; the internal concave articular surface will point to its appropriate side. Articulations. With seven bones : the scaphoid and semilunar above ; the second, third, and fourth metacarpal below ; the trapezoid on the radial side ; and the unci- form on the ulnar side, Attachment of Muscles. Part of the Flexor brevis pollicis. The Unciform bone may be readily distinguished by its wedge-shaped form, and the hook-like process that projects from its palmar surface. It is situated at the inner and lower angle of the carpus, with its base downwards, resting on the two inner metacarpal bones, and its apex directed upwards and outwards. The superior surface, the apex of the wedge, is narrow, convex, smooth, and articulates with the semilunar. The inferior surface articulates with the fourth and fifth meta- carpal bones, the concave surface for each being separated by a ridge, which runs from before backwards. The posterior or dorsal surface is triangular and rough, for ligamentous attachment. The anterior or palmar surface presents, at its lower and inner side, a curved hook-like process of bone, the unciform process, directed from the palmar surface forwards and outwards. It gives attachment, by its apex, to the annular ligament; by its inner surface, to the Flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti; and is grooved on its outer side, for the passage of the Flexor tendons into the palm of the hand. This is one of the four eminences on the front of the carpus, to which the anterior annular ligament is attached; the others being the pisiform internally, the oblique ridge of the trapezium and the tuberosity of the scaphoid externally. The internal sur- face articulates with the cuneiform by an oblong surface, cut obliquely from above, downwards and inwards. The external surface articulates with the os magnum by its upper and posterior part, the remaining portion being rough, for the attach- ment of ligaments. To ascertain to which hand it belongs, hold the apex of the bone upwards, and the broad dorsal surface backwards; the concavity of the unciform process will be directed to the side to which the bone belongs. Articulations. With five bones : the semilunar above, the fourth and fifth meta- car oal below, the cuneiform internally, the os magnum externally.