356 ARTERIES. The anterior cerebral arises from the internal carotid, at the inner extremity of tho fissure of Sylvius. It passes forwards in the great longitudinal fissure between the two anterior lobes of the brain, being connected, soon after its origin, with the vessel of tho opposite side by a short anastomosing trunk, about two lines in length, the anterior communicating. The two anterior cercbi'al arteries, lying side by side, $ curve round, the anterior border of tire corpus callosum, and run along its upper surface to its posterior part, where they terminate by anastomosing with the posterior cerebral arteries. They supply the olfactory and optic nerves, tho under surface of the anterior lobes, tho third ventricle, the anterior perforated space, the corpus callosum, and the inferior surface of the hemispheres. Tho anterior communicating artery is a short branch, about two lines in length, but of moderate size, connecting together the two anterior cerebral arteries across the longitudinal fissure. Sometimes this vessel is wanting, the two arteries joining together to form a single trunk, which afterwards subdivides. Or the vessel may be wholly or partially subdivided into two ; frequently, it is longer and smaller than usual. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, passes obliquely outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, within which it divides into three branches : an anterior, which supplies the pia mater, investing the surface of the anterior lobe ; a posterior, which supplies the middle lobe ; and a median branch, which supplies the small lobe at the outer extremity of the Sylvian fissure. Near its origin, this vessel gives off numerous small branches, which enter the substantia perforata, to be distributed to the corpus striatum. The posterior communicating artery arises from the back part of the internal carotid, runs directly backwards, and anastomoses with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar. This artery varies considerably in size, being sometimes small, and occasionally so large that the posterior cerebral may be considered as arising from the internal carotid rather than from the basilar. It is frequently larger on one side than on the other side. The anterior choroid is a small but constant branch which arises from the back part of the internal carotid, near the posterior communicating artery. Passing backwards and outwards, it enters the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain. It is distributed to the hippo- campus major, corpus fimbriatum, and choroid plexus. ARTERIES OP THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The artery which supplies the upper extremity, continues as a single trank from its commencement down to the elbow ; but different portions of it have received different names, according to the region through which it passes. That part of the vessel which extends from its origin to the outer border of the first rib, is termed the subclavian ; beyond this point to the lower border of the axilla, it is termed the axillary ; and from the lower margin of the axillary space to the bend of the elbow, it is termed brachial ; here, the single trunk terminates by dividing into two branches, the radial and ulnar, an arrangement precisely similar to what occurs in the lower limb. Subclavian Arteries. The subclavian artery on the right side arises from the artcria innominata, opposite the right sterno-clavicular articulation ; on the left side it arises from the arch of the aorta. It follows, therefore, that these two vessels must, in the first part of their course, differ in their length, their direction, and in their relation with neighbouring parts. In order to facilitate the description of these vessels, more especially in a sur- gical point of view, each subclavian artery has been divided into three parts. The first portion, on the right side, ascends obliquely outwards, from the origin of