MET AC A RPO-PIiA LANGE A L. i »S -> Articulations of the Metacarpal Bones with each other. The carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones articulate with one another at each side by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments pass transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal and palmar surfaces. The Interosseous Ligaments pass between their contiguous surfaces, just beneath their lateral articular facets. The Synovial Membrane lining the lateral facets is a reflection from that between the two rows of carpal bones. The digital extremities of the metacarpal bones are connected together by a narrow fibrous band, the transverse ligament (fig. 137) which passes transversely across their anterior surfaces, and is blended with the ligaments of the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. Its anterior surface presents four grooves for the passage of the flexor tendons. Its posterior surface blends with the ligaments of the metacarpo-phalangeal articulation. s- Mttacavpa- phalangeal Artie V X. Metacarpo-phalangeal Articulations. (Eig. 137.) These articulations are of the ginglymus kind, formed by the reception of the rounded head of the metacarpal bone, into a superficial cavity in the extremity of the first phalanx. They are connected by the following ligaments :— Anterior. Two Lateral. The Anterior Ligaments (Glenoid Ligaments of Cruveilhier) are thick, dense, and fibro-cartilaginous in tex- 137.—Articulations of the Phalanges.. ture. Each is placed on the palmar surface of the joint, in the interval between the late- ral ligaments, to which they are connected ; they are loose- ly united to the metacarpal bone, but very firmly to the base of the first phalanges. Their palmar surface is in- timately blended with the transverse ligament, forming a groove for the passage of the flexor tendons, the sheath surrounding which is con- nected to each side of the groove. By their deep sur- face, they form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone, and are lined by a synovial mem- brane. The Lateral Ligaments are strong rounded cords, placed one on each side of the joint, each being attached by ono extremity to the tubercle on the side of the head of the metacarpal bone, and by the other to the tremity of the phalanx. The posterior ligament is supplied by the extensor ten- don placed over the back of each joint. JVi aulangeal Artie Vf contiguous ex-