THE SKELETON-. 92 The head, nearly hemispherical in form, is directed upwards, inwards, and a little backwards ; its surface is smooth, coated with cartilage in the recent state, and articulates with the glenoid cavity of the scapula. The circumference of its articular surface is slightly constricted, and is termed the anatomical neck, in contradistinction to the constriction which exists below the tuberosities, and is called tho surgical neck, from its often being the seat of fracture. It should be remembered, however, that fracture of the anatomical neck does sometimes, though rarely, occur. The anatomical neck is obliquely directed, forming an obtuse angle with tho shaft. It is more distinclly marked in the lower half of its circumference than in the upper half, where it presents a narrow groove, separating the head from the tuberosities. Its circumference affords attachment to the capsular ligament, and is perforated by numerous vascular foramina. The greater tuberosity is situated on the outer side of the head and lesser tuberosity. Its upper surface is rounded and marked by three flat facets, separated by two slight ndges: the anterior facet gives attachment to the tendon of the Supraspinatus ; the middle one to the Infraspinatus; the posterior facet, and the shaft of the bone below it, to the Teres minor. The outer surface of the great tuberosity is convex, rough, and continuous with the outer side of the shaft. The lesser tuberosity is more prominent, although smaller than the greater: it is situated in front of the head, and is directed inwards and forwards. Its summit presents a prominent facet for the insertion of the tendon of the Subscapularis muscle. The tuberosities are separated from one another by a deep groove, the bicipital groove, so called from its lodging the long tendon of the Biceps muscle. It commences above between the two tuberosities, passes obliquely downwards and a little inwards, and terminates at the junction of the upper with the middle third of the bone. It is deep and narrow at its commencement, and becomes shallow and a, little bi’oader as it descends. In the recent state it is covered with a thin layer of cartilage, lined by a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint, and receives part of the tendon of insertion of the Latissimus dorsi about its centre. The Shaft of the humerus is almost cylindrical in the upper half of its extent, prismatic and flattened below, and presents three borders and three surfaces for examination. The anterior border runs from the front of the great tuberosity above to the coronoid depression below, separating the internal from the external surface. Its upper part is very prominent and rough, forms the outer lip of the bicipital groove, and serves for the attachment of the tendon of the Pectoralis major. About its centre is seen the rough deltoid impression ; below, it is smooth and rounded, affording attachment to the Brachialis anticus. The external border runs from the back part of the greater tuberosity to the external condyle, and separates the external from the posterior surface. It is rounded and indistinctly marked in its upper half, serving for the attachment of the external head of the Triceps muscle; its centre is traversed by a broad but shallow oblique depi^ession, the musculo-spiral groove ; its lower parts is marked by a prominent rough margin, a little ezirved from behind forwards, which presents an antei*ior lip for the attachment of the Supinator longus above and Extensor cai’pi radialis longior below, a posterior lip for the Triceps, and an interstice for the attachment of the external intermuscular aponeurosis. The internal border extends from the lesser tuberosity to the internal condyle. Its upper third is marked by a prominent ridge, forming the inner lip of tho bicipital groove, and gives attachment from above downwards to the tendons of the Latissimus dorsi, Teres major, and part of the origin of the inner head of the Triceps. About its centre is a rough ridge for the attachment of the Coraco- brachialis, and just below this is seen the entrance of the nutrient canal directed downwards. Sometimes there is a second canal higher up, which takes a similar direction. The inferior third of this border is raised into a slight ridge, which