SMALL INTESTINES. 627 Structure. Tho wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats: serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The swous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The first, or ascending portion of the duodenum, is almost completely surrounded by this membrane ; the second, or descending portion, is covered by it only in front; and the third, or transverse, portion lies behind the descending layer of tho transverse meso-colon, by which it is covered in front. The remaining portion of the small intestine is surrounded by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenterio border ; here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres, an external or longitudinal, and an internal or oircular layer. The longitudinal fibres are thinly scattered over the surface of the intestine, and are most distinct along its free border. The circxdar fibres form a thick, uniform layer; they surround the cylinder of - the intestine in the greater part of its circumference, but do not form complete rings. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper than at the lower part of the .small intestine. The cellular, or submucoxos coat, oonnects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of a loose, filamentous, areolar tissue which forms a nidus for the subdivision of the nutrient vessels, previous to their distribution to the mucous ^surface. The mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It presents for exami- nation the following constituents :— Epithelium. Valvuke conniventes. Villi. Simple follicles. [" Duodenal glands. Glands, s Solitary glands. I Agminate or Peyer’s glands. The epithelium, covering the mucous membrane of the small intestine, is of the olumnar variety. The valvxdce conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are reduplications or foldings > f the mucous membrane and submucous tissue, containing no muscular fibres, ’hey extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about three- mrths or five-sixths of its circumference. The larger folds are about two inches . 1 length, and two-thirds of an inch in depth at their broadest part ; but the r reater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with rch other. They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin > appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the escending portion, below the point where the common choledic and pancreatic acts enter the intestine, they are very large and closely approximated. In the ansverse portion of the duodenum and upper half of the jujenum, they are large id numerous; and from this point, down to the middle of the ileum, they dimi- < ish considerably in size. In the lower part of the ileum, they almost entirely isappear ; hence the comparative thinness of this portion of the intestine, as ompared with the duodenum and jejenum. The valvulm conniventes retard the -issage of the food along the intestines, and afford a more extensive surface for )Sorption. The villi are minute, highly vascular processes, projecting from the mucous ■ embrane of the small intestine throughout its whole extent, and giving to its irface a velvety appearance. In shape, some are triangular and laminated, others rnical or cylindrical, with clubbed or filiform extremities. They are largest and ost numerous in tho duodenum and jejunum, and become fewer and smaller the ileum. Krause estimates their number in the upper part of the small testine at from fifty to ninety in a square line; and in the lower part from forty ' seventy ; the total number for the wholo length of the intestino being about ur millions. In structure each villus" consists of a network of capillary and lacteal vessels, s s 2