SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERIN2EUM. 740 erection of tho penis, as they arc inserted into, and continuous with, the fascia of tho penis, compressing tho dorsal vein during the contraction of the muscle. The Erector Penis covers the unattached part of the crus penis. It is an elongated musclo, broader in the middle than at either extremity, and situated on either sido of the lateral boundary of tho perinooum. It arises by tendinous and fleshy fibres from tho inner surfaco of tho tuberosity of the ischium, behind the 394.—The Superficial Muscles and Vessels of the Perinseum. crus penis, from the surface of the crus, and from the adjacent poi'tion of the ramus of the pubes. From these points, fleshy fibres succeed, which end in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the side and under surface of the crus penis. This muscle compresses the crus penis, and thus serves to maintain the organ erect. The Transverse Penned is a narrow muscular slip, which passes more or less transversely across the back part of the perinatal space. It arises by a small tendon from the inner and fore side of the tuberosity of the ischium, and, passing obliquely forwards and inwai’ds, is inserted into the central tendinous point of the perinaeum, joining in this situation with the muscle of the opposite side, the Sphincter ani behind, and the Accelerator urinte in front. Between the muscles just examined, a triangular space exists, bounded internally by the Accelerator urinae, externally by the Erector penis, and behind by the Transversus perinaei. The floor of this space is formed by the triangular ligament of the urethra (deep perinoeal fascia), and, running from behind forwards in it, are the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerves, the transverse perinaeal artery coursing along the posterior boundary of the space, on the Transversus perinaei muscle. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the knife is carried obliquely across the back part of this space, downwards and outwards, into the ischio-rectal fossa, dividing the Transversus perinaei muscle and artery, the posterior fibres of the Accelerator urinae, the superficial perinaeal vessels and nerve, and more posteriorly the external haemorrhoidal vessels.