GALL BLADDER. 641 Gall-Bladder. The gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile ; it is a conical or pear-shaped membranous sac, lodged in a fossa on the under surface of tho right lobe of the liver, and extending from near the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the anterior free margin of the organ. It is about four inches in length, one inch in breadth at its widest part, and holds from eight to ten drachms. It is divided into a fundus, body, and neck. The fundus, or broad extremity, is directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, and occasionally projects from the anterior border of the liver : the body and neck are directed upwards aud backwards to the left. The gall-bladder is held in its position by the peritoneum, which, in the majority of cases, passes over its under surface, but the serous membrane occasionally invests the gall-bladder, which then is connected to the liver by a kind of mesentery. Relations. The body of the gall-bladder is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver, to which it is connected by areolar tissue and vessels ; by its under 'Surface, with the first portion of the duodenum, occasionally the pyloric end of the 'Stomach, and the hepatic flexure of the colon. The fundus is completely invested : by peritoneum; it is hi relation, in front, with the abdominal parietes, immediately below the tenth costal cartilage; behind, with the transverse arch of the colon. 'The neck is narrow, and curves upon itself like the italic letter /; at its point of connection with the body and with the cystic duct, it presents a well-marked .‘constriction. When the gall-bladder is distended with bile or calculi, the fundus may be felt through the abdominal parietes, especially in an emaciated subject: the relations of this sac will dso serve to explain the occasional occurrence of abdominal biliary fistuhe, through which uliary calculi may pass out, and of the passage of calculi from the gall-bladder into the ■ stomach, duodenum, or colon, which occasionally happens. Structure. The gall-bladder consists of three coats : serous, fibrous and mus- cular, and mucous. The external or serous coat is derived from the peritoneum ; it completely invests t he fundus, but covers the body and neck only on their under surface. The middle or fibrous coat is a thin but strong fibrous layer, which forms tho camework of the sac, consisting of dense fibres which interlace in all directions, ’lain muscular fibres are also found in this coat, disposed chiefly in a longitudinal irection, a few running transversely. Ii The internal or mucous coat is loosely connected with the fibrous layer. It is snerally tinged with a yellowish-brown colour, and is everywhere elevated into inute rugae, by the union of which numerous meshes are formed ; the depressed tervening spaces having a polygonal outline. The meshes are smaller at tho ndus and neck, being most developed about the centre of the sac. Opposite tho jck of the gall-bladder, the mucous membrane projects inwards so as to form a rge valvular fold. The mucous membrane is covered with columnar epithelium, and secretes an >undance of thick viscid mucus ; it is continuous through the hepatic duct with e mucous membrane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus com- unis choledochus with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The Biliary Buds are, the hepatic, the cystic, and tho ductus communis toledochus. The hepatic duct is formed of two trunks of nearly equal size, which issue om tho liver at the transverse fissure, one from the right, the other from tho ft lobe; these unite, and pass downwards and to the right for about an inch and half, to join at an acute angle with the cystic duct, and so form the ductus com- unis choledochus. Ihe cystic duct, the smallest of the three biliary ducts, is about an inch in length, passes obliquely downwards and to the left from the neck of the gall-bladder, T T