THE SKELETON. 10 8.—Development of a Vertebra. J3xj S jrrt.marj oentres % / for .Body f8(1' xocc/cj f for each lamina (6 weekJ 9- By /f-$eco//.cUvTy Centre# {/ far each Tra.uit.Proo. UJ several small apertures at the posterior part of the body of eacli bone. The arch and processes projecting’ from it have, on the contrary, an exceedingly thick cover- ing of compact tissue. Development. Each vertebra is formed of three primary cartilaginous portions (fig. 8) ; one for each lamina and its processes, and one for the body. Ossification commences in the laminae about the sixth week of foetal life, in the situation where the trans- verse processes afterwards pro- ject, the ossific granules shooting backwards to the spine, forwards to the body, and outwards into the transverse and articular pro- cesses. Ossification in the body commences in the middle of the cartilage about the eighth week. At birth these three pieces are perfectly separate- During the first year the laminae become united behind, by a portion of cartilage in which the spinous process is ultimately formed, and thus the arch is completed. About the third year the body is joined to the arch on each side, in such a manner that the body is formed from the three original centres of ossification, the amount contributed by the pedicles increasing in extent from below upwards. Thus the bodies of the sacral vertebras are formed almost entirely from the central nuclei, the bodies of the lumbar segments are formed laterally and behind by the pedicles; in the dorsal region, the pedicles advance as far forwards as the articular depressions for the heads of the ribs, forming these cavities of reception ; and in the neck the whole of the lateral portions of the bodies are formed by the advance of the pedicles. Before puberty, no other changes occur, excepting a gradual in- crease in the growth of these primary centres, the upper and under surface of the bodies, and the ends of the transverse and spinous processes, being tipped with cartilage, in which ossific granules are not as yet deposited. At sixteen years (fig. 9), four secondary centres appear, ono for the tip of each transverse process, and two (sometimes Z sometimes { j for Up tn.proc. (i 6 y Tf J IO. By 2 additional plate s f-1 for upper surfaced. ‘of body L/ (y's for under stir feted of body ll.—'Atlas. \ o . not 3 centres con_ centres — /foranter:ared f1-'yr/ slant. 1 for e ei c.Ji, la.t.eral mass ylirfii 12.—Axis. o/j 6 centres 3-for odontoidproe fcftnoj ,£\ * /for each la teral mas' ' /for Indy (Cf mo.) Lumbar Vertebra. additional cent res for tubercles on St)p.Artie.Pnre Exceptional Cases.