24 THE SKELETON. Surfaces. The external surface (fig. 25) is convex, smooth, and marked about its centre by an eminence, ealled tho parietal eminence, which indicates the point where ossification commenced. Crossing the middle of the bone in an arched direction is a curved ridge, the temporal ridge, for tho attachment of the temporal fascia. Above this ridge, tho surface of the bone is rough and porous, and covered by the aponeurosis of the Oocipito-frontalis ; below it the bone is smooth, forms part of the temporal fossa, and affords attachment to the temporal muscle. At tho back part of the superior border, close to the sagittal suture, is a small foramen, the parietal foramen, which transmits a vein to the superior longitudinal sinus. Its existence is not constant, and its size varies considerably. The internal surface (fig. 26), concave, presents eminences and depressions for lodging the convolutions of the cerebrum, and numerous furrows for the ramifica- tions of the meningeal arteries; the latter run upwards and backwards from the anterior inferior angle, and from the central and posterior part of the lower border of the bone. Along the upper margin is part of a shallow groove, which, when joined to tho opposite parietal, forms a channel for the superior longitudinal sinus, the elevated edges of Avhich afford attachment to the falx cerebri. Near the groove are seen several depressions; they lodge the Pacchionian bodies. The internal opening of the parietal foramen is also seen when that aperture exists. 25.—Left Parietal Bone. External Surface. Borders. The superior, the longest and thickest, is dentated to articulate with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the sagittal suture. The inferior is divided into three parts: of these, the anterior is thin and pointed, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid : the middle portion is arched, bevelled at the expense of the outer surface, and overlapped by the squamous portion of the temporal; the posterior portion is