653 HEART—RIGHT AURICLE. Openings. The superior vena cava returns the blood from the upper half of the body, and opens into the upper and front part of the auricle, the direction of its | orifice being' downwards and forwards. The inferior vena cava, larger than the superior, returns the blood from the lower | half of the body, and opens into the lowest part of the auricle, near the septum, the direction of its orifice being upwards and inwards. The direction of a current of blood through the superior vena cava would consequently be towards the auriculo- ventricular orifice ; whilst the direction of the blood through the inferior cava would be towards the auricular septum. This is the normal direction of the two currents in foetal life. The tuberculvm Loweri is a small projection on the right wall of the auricle, between the two cavae. This is most distinct in the hearts of quadrupeds : in man it is scarcely visible. It was supposed by Lower to direct the blood from the -superior cava towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. The coronary sinus opens into the auricle, between the inferior vena cava and : the auriculo-ventricular opening. It returns the blood from the substance of the heart, and is protected by a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the aauricle, the coronary valve. The sinus, before entering the auricle, is considerably .dilated. Its wall is partly muscular, and, at its junction with the great coronary iwein, is somewhat constricted, and furnished with a valve, consisting of two unequal i.-segments. The foramina Thebesii are numerous minute apertures, the mouths of small veins (vetice cordis minima}), which open on various parts of the inner surface of the auricle. They return the blood directly from tho muscular substance of the heart. "Some of these foramina are minute depressions in the walls of the heart, presenting ! a closed extremity. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the large oval aperture of communication between the auricle and ventricle, to be presently described. Valves. The Eustachian valve is situated between the anterior margin of the r inferior cava and. the auriculo-ventricular orifice. It is semilunar in&form, its ' convex margin being attached to the wall of the vein ; its concave margin, which hs free, terminating m two cornua, of which the left is attached to the anterior ed^e if the annulus ovalis; the right being lost on the wall of the auricle. The valve : s formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane of the auricle, containing a few muscular fibres. • In the foetus, this valve is of large size, and serves to direct tho blood from the nfenor cava, through the foramen ovale, into the left auricle. In the adult, it is occasionally persistent, and may assist in preventing the •eflux of blood into the inferior cava: more commonly, it is small, and its free nargin presents a cribriform, or filamentous appearance; occasionally, it is alto- gether wanting. J The coronary valve is a semicircular fold of the lining membrane of the auricle iro c ing t le orifice of the coronary sinus. It prevents the regurgitation of blood huble SmUS darmg the C0ntraotion of tho auricle- This valve is occasionally The fossa ovalis is an oval depression, corresponding to the situation of the orarnon ovale in the fcotus. It is situated at the lower part of the septum auri- ularum, above the orifice of the inferior vena cava. VT1” <W“Ks f t,hc prominent oval margin of the foramen ovale. It is most n r ° S1, 1 bel0W ifc “ deiioion‘- A small slit-like valvular S:at- 6 Upper marg“ °f th° fossa oralis- which leads perturebttr^ £re annuks mto the left auricle, and is tho remains of tho perturc between the two auricles in the fcotus. he inner Ur° l)romincnt muscular columns, which run across inus. Thev l ° ° 10 appendix auriculae, and adjoining portion of the wall of tho car to the tectlTo/^oc^b uame, Pec^Lnalh from the fancied resemblance they