HENRY BICriG MASON, EXETER. MALAR BONE. form, thinness, and size, a finger-nail; hence they are termed the ossa wicjuis. Each bone presents, for examination, two surfaces and four borders. The external (fig. 48) or orbital surface is divided by a vertical ridge into two parts. The portion of bone in front of this ridge presents a smooth, concave, longitudinal groove, the free margin of which unites with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, completing the lachrymal groove. The upper part of this groove lodges the lachrymal sac ; the lower part assists in the formation of the lachrymal canal, and lodges the nasal duct. The portion of bone behind the ridge is smooth, slightly concave, and forms part of the inner wall of the orbit. The ridge, with a part of the orbital surface immediately behind it, affords attachment to the Tensor tarsi: the ridge terminates below in a small hook-like process, which articulates with the lachrymal tubercle of the superior maxillary bone and completes the upper orifice of the lachrymal canal. It sometimes exists as a separate piece, which is then called the lessor lachrymal hone. The in- ternal or nasal surface presents a depressed furrow, corresponding to the ridge on its outer surface. The surface of bone in front of this forms part of the middle meatus ; and that behind it articulates with the ethmoid bone, filling in the anterior ethmoidal cells. Of the four borders, the anterior is the longest, and articulates with the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone. The posterior, thin and uneven, articulates with the os planum of the ethmoid. The superior, the shortest and thickest, articulates with the internal angular process of the frontal bone. The inferior is divided by the lower edge of the vertical crest into two parts : the posterior part articulates with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary bone ; the anterior portion is prolonged downwards into a pointed process, which articulates with the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated bone, and assists in the formation of the lachrymal canal. Development. By a single centre, which makes its appearance soon after ossifi- cation of the vertebrae has commenced. Articulations. With four bones : two of the cranium, the frontal and-ethmoid, and two of the face, the superior maxillary and the inferior turbinated. Attachment of Muscles. The Tensor tarsi. 48.—Left Lachrymal Bone. External Surface. (Slightly enlarged.) itnth Frontal The Malae Bones. The Malar are two small quadrangular bones, situated at the upper and outer part of the face: they form the prominence of the cheek, part of the outer wall and floor of the orbit, and part of the temporal and zygomatic fossae. Each bone presents for examination an external and an internal surface ; four processes, the frontal, orbital, maxillary, and zygomatic ; and four borders. The external surface (fig. 49) is smooth, convex, perforated near its centre by one or two small apertures, the malar foramina, for the passage of nerves and vessels, covered by the Orbicularis palpebrarum muscle, and affords attachment to the Zygomaticus major and minor muscles. The internal surface (fig. 50), directed backwards and inwards, is concave, pro- sentingTnternally a rough triangular surface, for articulation with the superior maxillary bone; and externally, a smooth concave surface, which forms the anterior boundary of the temporal fossa above ; and below, where it is wider, forms part of the zygomatic fossa. This surface presents, a little above its centre, Iho aperture of one or two malar canals, and affords attachment to part of two muscles, the Temporal above, and the Masseter below. Of the four processes, the frontal is thick and serrated, and articulates with the external angular process E