FEMUR. 123 Above the line is a triangular surface, sometimes rough for part of the tendon of the same muscle, sometimes smooth for the interposition of a bursa between that tendon and the bone. Below and behind the diagonal line is a smooth triangular surface over which the tendon of the Gluteus maximus muscle plays, a bursa bein" interposed. The internal surface is of much less extent than the external, and presents at its base a deep depression, the digital or trochanteric fossa for the attachment of the tendon of the Obturator externus muscle. The superior border is free ; it is thick and irregular, and marked by impressions for the attachment of the Pyriformis behind, tho Obturator internus and Gemelli in front. The inferior border corresponds to the point of junction of the base of the trochanter with the outer surface of the shaft; it is rough, prominent, slightly curved, and gives attachment to the upper part of the Vastus externus muscle. The anterior border is prominent, somewhat irregular, as well as the surface of bone imme- diately below it; it affords attachment by its outer part to the Gluteus minimus. The posterior border is very prominent, and appears as a free rounded edge, which forms the back part of the digital fossa. The Lesser Trochanter is a conical eminence, which varies in size in different subjects ; it projects from the lower and back part of the base of the neck. Its base is triangular, and connected with the adjacent parts of the bone by three well- marked borders : of these, the superior is continuous with the lower border of the neck ; the posterior, with the posterior intertrochanteric hue ; and the inferior, with the middle division of the linea aspera. Its summit, which is directed inwards and backwards, is rough, and gives insertion to the tendon of the Psoas magnus. The Iliacus is inserted into the shaft below the lesser trochanter, between the Vastus internus in front, and the Pectineus behind. A well-marked prominence, of variable size, which projects from the upper and front part of the neck, at its junction with the great trochanter, is called the tubercle of the femur; it is the point of meeting of three muscles, the Gluteus minimus externally, the Vastus externus below, and the tendon of the Obturator internus and Gemelli above. Running obliquely downwards and inwards from the tubercle is the spiral line of the femur, or anterior intertrochanteric line; it winds round the inner side of the shaft, below the lesser trochanter, and terminates in the linea aspera, about two inches below this eminence. Its upper half is rough, and affords attachment to the capsular ligament of the hip joint; its lower half is less prominent, and gives attachment to the upper part of the Vastus internus. The posterior intertro- chanteric line is veiy prominent, and runs from the summit of the great trochanter downwards and inwards to the upper and back part of the lesser trochanter. Its upper half forms the posterior border of the great trochanter. A well-marked eminence commences about the middle of the posterior intertrochanteric line, and passes vertically downwards for about two inches along the back part of the shaft: it is called the linea quadratic and gives attachment to the Quadratus femoris, and a few fibres of the Adductor magnus muscles. The Shaft, almost perfectly cylindrical in form, is a little broader above than in the centre, and somewhat flattened from before backwards below. It is slightly arched, so as to be convex m front; concave behind, where it is strengthened by a prominent longitudinal ridge, the linea aspera. It presents for examination three borders separating three surfaces. Of the three borders, one, the linea aspera, is posterior ; the other two are placed laterally. The linea aspera (fig. 104) is a prominent longitudinal ridge or crest, presenting, on the middle third of the bone, an external lip, an internal lip, and a rough inter- mediate space. A little above the centre of the shaft, this crest divides into three lines : * the most external one becomes very rough, and is continued almost verti- cally upwards to the base of the great trochanter ; the middle one, the least dis- tinct, is continued to the base of the trochanter minor ; and the internal one is lost above in the spiral line of the femur. Below, the linea aspera divides into Of these three lines, only the outer and inner are described bv many anatomists: the linea aspera is then said to bifurcate above and below.