636 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. consists of two layers of peritoneum closely united together. Its anterior free edge contains the round ligament between its layers. I he lateral ligaments, two in number, right and left, are triangular in shape. I hey are lormcd of two layers of peritoneum united, and extend from the sides of the Diaphragm to the adjacent margins of the posterior boi’der of the organ. I he left is the longer of the two, and lies in front of the oesophageal opening in the Diaphragm. rLhe coronary ligament connects the posterior border of the liver to the Diaphragm. It is formed by the reflection of the peritoneum with the Diaphragm on to the upper and lower margins of the posterior border of the organ. The coronary ligament consists of two layers, which arc continuous on each side with 344.—The Liver. Upper Surface. the lateral ligaments ; and in front, with the longitudinal ligament. Between the layers, a large oval interspace is left uncovered by peritoneum, and connected to the Diaphragm by a firm areolar tissue. This space is subdivided, near its left extremity, into two parts by a deep notch (sometimes a canal), which lodges the inferior vena cava, and iuto which open the hepatic veins. The round ligament (fig. 345) is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of the umbilical vein. It ascends from the umbilicus, in the anterior free margin of the longitudinal ligament, to the notch in the anterior border of the liver, from which it may be traced along the longitudinal fissure on the under surface of the liver, as far back as the inferior vena cava. Fissures (fig. 345). Five fissures are seen upon the under surface of the liver which serve to divide it into five lobes. They are the longitudinal fissure, the fissure of the ductus venosus, the transverse fissure, the fissure for the gall-bladder and the fissure for the vena cava. The longitudinal fissure is a deep groove, which extends from the notch on the anterior margin of the liver, to the posterior border of the organ. It separates the right and left lobes ; the transverse fissure joins it, at right angles, about one- third from its posterior extremity, and divides it into two parts. The anterior half is called the umbilical fissure : it is deeper than the posterior part, and lodges the umbilical vein in the foetus, or its remains (the round ligament) in the adult. This fissure is often partially bridged over by a prolongation of the hepatic sub- stance, the pons hepatis. The fissure of the ductus venosus is the back part of the longitudinal fissure;