THE THORAX. 658 Structure. The heart consists of muscular fibres, and of fibrous rings which serve for their attachment. The fibrous rings surround the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices: they are stronger upon the left than on the right sido of the heart. The auriculo- ventricular rings serve for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the auricles and ventricles, and also for the mitral and tricuspid valves ; the ring on the left side is closely connected, by its right margin, with the aortic arterial ring. Between these and the right auriculo-ventricular ring, is a fibro-cartilaginous mass ; and in some of the larger animals, as the ox and elephant, a portion of bone. The fibrous rings surrounding the arterial orifices serve for the attachment of the great vessels and semilunar valves. Each ring receives, by its ventricular margin, the attachment of the muscular fibres of the ventricles ; its opposite margin presents three deep semicircular notches, within which the middle coat of the artery (which presents three convex semicircular segments) is firmly fixed; the attachment of the artery to its fibrous ring being strengthened by the thin cellular coat and serous membrane externally, and by the endocardium within. It is opposite the margins of these semicircular notches, in the arterial rings, that the endocardium, by its reduplication, forms the semilunar valves, the fibrous structure of the ring being continued into each of the segments of the valve at this part. The middle coat of the artery in this situation is thin, and the sides of the vessel dilated to form the sinuses of Valsalva. The muscular structure of the heart consists of bands of fibres, which present an exceedingly intricate interlacement. They are of a deep red colour, and marked with transverse striae. The muscular fibres of the heart admit of a subdivision into two kinds : those of the auricles, and those of the ventricles: which are quite independent of one another. Fibres of the auricles. These are disposed in two layers : a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deep layer proper to each. The superficial fibres are more distinct on the anterior surface of the auricles, across the bases of which they run in a transverse direction, forming a thin, but incomplete, layer. Some of these fibres pass into the sejitum auricularum. The internal or deep fibres proper to each auricle consist of two sets, looped, and annular fibres. The looped fibres pass upwards over each auricle, being attached by both extremities to the corresponding auriculo-ventricular rings, in front and behind. The annular fibres surround the whole extent of the appendices auriculae, and are continued upon the walls of the venae cavae and coronary sinus on the right side, and upon the pulmonary veins on the left side, at their connection with the heart. In the appendices, they interlace with the longitudinal fibres. Fibres of the ventricles. These, as in the auricles, are disposed in layers, some of which are common to both ventricular cavities, whilst others belong exclusively to one ventricle, the latter being chiefly found towards the base of the heart. The greater majority of these fibres are connected by both ends with the auriculo- ventricular fibrous rings, either directly or indirectly through the chordae ten- dineae ; some, however, are attached to the fibrous rings surrounding the arterial orifices. The superficial fibres are either longitudinal, or more commonly oblique or spiral in their direction, and towards the apex are arranged in the form of twisted loops; the deeper fibres are circular. The spiral fibres are disposed in layers of various degrees of thickness : the most superficial, on the front of the ventricles, run obliquely from right to left and from above downwards. On the back of the ventricles they are directed more vertically, and pass from left to right. The superficial fibres coil inwards at the apex of the heart, round which they are arranged in a whorl-like form, called the vortex dipping beneath the edge of the deeper and shorter layers. If these fibres are carefully uncoiled, in a heart previously boiled, the cavity of the left, and then that of the right ven-