344 ARTERIES. Surgical Anatomy. It occasionally happens that the surgeon is called upon to perform the operation of arteriotomy upon this vessel in cases of inflammation of the eye or brain. Under these circumstances, the anterior branch is the one usually selected. If the student Avill consider the relations of the trunk of this vessel, as it crosses the zygomatic arch, with the surrounding structures, he will observe that it is covered by a thick and dense fascia, crossed by one or two veins, and accompanied by branches of the facial and temporo- auricular nerves. Bleeding should not be performed in this situation, us much difficulty may arise from the dense fascia over the vessel preventing a free flow of blood, and consider- able pressure is requisite afterwards to repress the haemorrhage. Again, a varicose aneurism may be formed by the accidental opening of one of the veins in front of the artery; or severe neuralgic pain may arise from the operation implicating one of the nervous filaments in the neighbourhood. The anterior branch is, on the contrary, subcutaneous, is a large vessel, and us readily compressed as any other portion of the artery; it should consequently always be selected for the operation. The Internal Maxillary (fig. 210), the larger of the two terminal branches of the external carotid, passes inwards, at right angles from that vessel, to the inner 210.—The Internal Maxillary Artery, and its Branches. side of the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, to supply the deep structures of the face. At its origin, it is imbedded in the substance of the parotid gland, being on a level with the lower extremity of the lobe of the ear. In the first part of its course (maxillary portion), the artery passes horizontally forwards and inwards, between the ramus of the jaw and the internal lateial ligament. The artery here lies parallel with the auriculo-temporal nerve; it crosses the inferior dental nerve, and lies beneath the narrow portion of the External pterygoid muscle.