FRACTURES OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 289 ■ ,n inch to two inches ; the prominence of the elbow is consequently lost, and a deep hollow 3 felt at the back part of the joint, which is much increased on flexing the limb. The atient at the same time loses, more or less, the power of extending the forearm. The reatment consists in relaxing the Triceps by extending the limb, and retaining it in the extended position by means of a long straight splint applied to the front of the arm ; the • ragments are thus brought into close apposition, and may be further approximated by draw- ngrdown the upper fragments. Uniou is generally ligamentous. Fracture of the neck of the radius is an exceedingly rare accident, and is generally | aused by direct violence. Its diagnosis is somewhat obscure, on account of the slight ' leformity visible: the injured part being surrounded by a large number of muscles; but r he movements of pronation and supination are entirely lost. The upper fragment is I Lrawn outwards by the Supinator brevis, its extent of displacement being limited by the ittachment of the orbicular ligament. The lower fragment is drawn forwards and slightly ipwards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pronator radii teres, its displacement forwards ud upwards being counteracted in some degree by the Supinator brevis. The treatment Essentially consists in relaxing the Biceps, Supinator brevis, and Pronator radii teres nuscles, by flexing the forearm, and placing it in a position midway between pronation aud . upination, extension having been previously made so as to bring the parts in apposition. Fracture of the radius (fig. 184) is more common than fracture of the ulna, on ac- count of the connection of the former bone with the wrist. Fracture of the shaft of the radius near its centre may occur from direct violence, but more frequently from a fall forwards, the weight of the body being received on the wrist and hand. The upper fragment is drawn upwards by the Biceps, and inwards by the Pro- nator radii teres, holding a position mid- way between pronation and supination, and a degree of fulness in the upper half of the forearm is thus produced: the ower fragment is drawn downwards and inwards towards the ulna by the Pronator piadratus, and thrown into a state of pronation by the same muscle; at the same time, the Supinator longus, by elevating the styloid process, into which it is inserted, will serve to lepress the upper end of the lower fragment still more towards the ulna. In order to relax the opposing muscle the forearm should be bent, and the limb placed in a position midway between pronation and supination ; the fracture is then easily reduced by extension from the wrist and elbow: well-padded splints should then be applied on both sides of the forearm from the elbow to the wrist; the hand being allowed to fall, will, by its own weight, counteract the action of the Pronator quadratus and Supinator longus, and elevate the lower fragment to the level of the upper one. Fracture of the shaft of the ulna is not a common accident; it is usually caused by direct violence. The more protected position of the ulna on the inner side of the limb, the greater strength of its shaft, and its indirect connection with the wrist, render it less liable to injury than the radius. The fracture usually occurs a little below the middle, which is the weakest part of the bone. The upper fragment retains its usual position, but the lower fragment is drawn outwards towards the radius by the Pronator quadratus, producing a well-marked depression at the seat of fracture, and some fulness on the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the forearm. The fracture is easily reduced by extension from the wrist and forearm. The forearm should be flexed, and placed in a position midway between pronation and supination, and well-padded splints applied from the elbow to the ends of the ingers. Fracture of the shafts of the radius and ulna together is not a very common accident; it nay arise from a direct blow, or from indirect violence. The lower fragments are drawn ipwards, sometimes forwards, sometimes backwards, according to the direction of the ’racture, by the combined actions of the Flexor and Extensor muscles, producing a degree )f fulness on the dorsal or palmar surface of the forearm ; at the same time the two frag- nents are drawn into contact by the Pronator quadratus, the radius in a state of pronation : he upper fragment of the radius is drawn upwards and inwards by the Biceps and Pronator •adii teres to a higher level than the ulna; the upper portion of the ulna is slightly debated by the Brachialis anticus. The fracture may be reduced by extension from the vri3t and elbow, and the forearm should be placed in the same position as in fracture of he ulna. In the treatment of all cases of fracture of the bones of the forearm, the greatest care s requisite to prevent the ends of the bones from being drawn inwards towards the inter- isseous space: if this point is not carefully attended to, the radius and ulna may becomo inch} losed, and the movements of pronation and supination entirely lost. To obviate this, he.splints applied to the limb should be well paddea, so as to press the muscles down into heir normal situation in the interosseous space, and thus prevent the approximation of the ragments. 184.—Fracture of the Shaft of the Radius. U