FACIAL. 339 JI of the artery, the number of important parts by which it is surrounded, the loose and yielding , t nature of the parts upon which it is supported, and its occasional irregularity of origin. An | incision is to be made, about two and a half inches in length, running obliquely downwards |[ and backwards, and having its centre opposite the point of the great cornu of the hyoid bone, ; J which is the o-uide to the artery. The parts being gradually dissected, the hypoglossal nerve I will come first into view, and then the artery must be carefully sought for among the loose | tissue at the bottom of the wound, care being taken not to open the pharynx. Large veins, | the internal jugular or some of its branches, may be met with, and prove a source of !| embarrassment. Troublesome lnemorrhage may occur in the division of the fraenum in children, if the ranine I artery, which lies on each side of it, is cut through. The student should remember that the I operation is always to be performed with a pair of blunt-pointed scissors, and the mucous [ membrane only is to be divided by a very superficial cut, which cannot endanger any vessel. | The scissors, also, should be directed away from the tongue. Any further liberation of the t tongue, which may be necessary, can be eliected by tearing. The Facial Aeteby (fig. 209), arises a little above the lingual, and ascends j obliquely forwards and upwards, beneath the body of the lower jaw, to the sub- ^ maxillary gland, in which it is imbedded ; this may be called the cervical part of 209.—The Arteries of the Face and Scalp.* the artery It then Curves upwards over the body of the jaw at the anterior in- enor angle of the Masseter muscle, ascends forwards and upwards across the cheek to the angle of the mouth, passes up along the side of the nose, and terminates at i ^ caT1 us of the eye, under the name of the angular artery. This vessel, e nec , and on the face, is remarkably tortuous ; in the former situation, be 3uPPoaea 10 Lll''e >“ ta