OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. jgg, Fracture of the Neck of tlio Femur within the Capsular Ligament. 200.—Fracture of the Femur below the Trochanters. Fracture of the neck of the femur internal to the capsu- lar ligament (fig. 199), is a very common accident, and is most frequently caused by indirect violence, such as slipping oil’ the edge of the kerbstone, the impetus and weight of the body falling upon the neck of the bone. It usually oc- curs in females, and sel- dom under fifty years of age. At this period of life, the cancellous tissue of the neck of the bone not un- frequently is atrophied, be- coming soft and infiltrated withfatty matter; thecom- pact tissue is partially ab- sorbed : hence the bone is more brittle, and more liable to fracture. The cha- racteristic marks of this ac- cident are slight shortening of the limb, and eversion of the foot, neither of which symptoms occur, however, in some cases until some time after the injury. The eversion is caused by the combined action of the external rotator muscles, as well as by the Psoas and Iliacus, Pec- tineus, Adductors, and Glutei muscles. The shortening is produced by the action of the Glutei, and by the Rectus femoris in front, and the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semi- membranosus behind. Fracture of th a femur just below the trochanters (fig. 200) is an accident of not unfrequent occurrence, and is at- tended with great displacement, producing considerable deformity. The upper fragment, the portion chiefly dis- placed, is tilted forwards almost at right angles with the pelvis, by the combined action of the Psoas and Iliacus; and, at the same time, everted and drawn outwards by the external rotator and Glutei muscles, causing a marked prominence at the upper and outer side of the thigh, and much pain from the bruising and laceration of the muscles. The limb is shortened, in consequence of the lower frag- ment being drawn upwards by the Rectus in front, and the Biceps, Semimembranosus, and Semitendinosus behind; and, at the same time, everted, and the upper end thrown outwards, the lower inwards, by the Pectineus and Ad- ductor muscles. This fracture may be reduced in two different methods: either by direct relaxation of all the opposing muscles, to effect which the limb should be placed on a double inclined plane ; or by overcoming the contrac- tion of the muscles, by continued extension, which may be effected by means of the long splint. Oblique fracture of the femur immediately above the con- dyles (fig. 201) is a formidable injury, and attended with considerable displacement. On examination of the limb, the lower fragment may be felt deep in the popliteal space, being drawn backwards by the Gastrocnemius, Soleus, and Plantaris muscles; and upwards by the posterior femoral and Rectus muscles. The pointed end of the upper frag- ment is drawn inwards by the Pectineus and Adductor muscles, and tilted forwards by the Psoas and Iliacus, piercing the Rectus muscle, and occasionally, the integu- ment. Relaxation of these muscles, and direct approxi- mation of the broken fragments is effected by placing the limb on a double inclined plane. The greatest care Y