cxxn GENERAL ANATOMY. is transferred from the umbilical vein to the right afferent hepatic. A portion of it persists and forms the trunk of the portal vein. The systemic veins are developed from four trunk veins, two on either side, above and below, which appear before the formation of the allantois or the umbilical vessels. These unite into one canal on either side (canal of Cuvier), which open into the common trunk of the omphalomesenteric veins, and so into the auricular portion of the rudimentary heart. These four primitive veins lie, two of them in front, the anterior cardinal, or jugular veins, and the other two behind, the posterior cardinal veins. As the umbilical vein increases, and the omphalomesenteric diminishes in volume, the sinuses of Cuvier are transferred to the former vein, and when the inferior cava is formed and the umbilical vein becomes merely its tribu- tary, the sinuses of Cuvier open into the inferior vena cava. At a later period the portion of the vena cava inferior, between the opening of the sinuses of Cuvier and the auricle, disappears, and then the auricle receives three veins —viz., the inferior cava, and the two sinuses of Cuvier, which are now called right and left superior vena cava (Fig. LX.). The superior cardinal, or jugular veins, which form the upper branches of the sinuses of Cuvier on either side, unite about the second month by a transverse anastomos- ing branch. The left superior vena cava assumes an oblique position, and empties itself into the lower and left end of the auricle. Finally, its trunk disappears, while its orifice is transformed into the coronary sinus, in which the great cardiac vein opens. The right sinus of Cuvier, or superior vena cava, persists; the transverse anastomosing branch between the two jugulars becomes the left innominate vein, and the end of the right jugular the right innominate. The venous circulation in the lower part of the embryo is at first carried on by the inferior cardinal veins, which return the blood from the Wolffian bodies, and receive branches corresponding to the intercostal, lumbar and crural veins. Between the fourth and fifth week, the inferior vena cava begins to appear in the form of a vessel which passes upwards behind the liver and between the two Wolffian bodies. It anastomoses below with the two cardinal veins, and with the crural veins, which gradually come to open into it. The middle part of the cardinal veins disappears; their distal extremities persist as the hypogastric veins, which open along with the crural into the vena cava, forming the iliac and other veins of the lower extremities. The termination of each cardinal vein above, in the sinus of Cuvier, or superior cava, also persists. The central atrophied portion of the cardinal veins is replaced by a vein on either side, called posterior vertebral, which receive the intercostal and lumbar veins, and are soon united by an oblique anastomosing branch. The right vertebral vein, together with the persistent termination of the right cardinal vein, forms the great azygos vein. The distal portion of the left vertebral vein with the oblique anas- tomosing branch, forms the small azygos ; and the upper pail; of the left vertebral, with the persistent termination of the left cardinal, forms the left superior intercostal vein. The ‘ foetal circulation ’ is spoken of at p. 661.