59 THE SUTURES. The Sigmoid Notch, separating the two processes, is a deep semilunar depression, crossed by the masseteric artery and nerve. Development This bone is formed at such an early period of life, before, indeed, any other bone except the clavicle, that it has been found impossible at present to determine its earliest condition. It appeal’s probable, however, that it is developed by two centres, one for each lateral half, the two segments meeting at the symphy- sis, where they become united. Additional centres have also been described for the coronoid process, the condyle, the angle, and the thin plate of bone which forms the inner side of the alveolus. Changes produced in the Lower Jaw by Age. The changes which the Lower Jaw undergoes after birth, relate—i. To the alterations effected in the body of the hone by the first and second dentitions, the loss of the teeth in the aged, and the subsequent absorption of the alveoli. 2. To the size and situation of the dental canal; and, 3. To the angle at which the ramus joins with the body. At birth (fig. 58), the bone consists of two lateral halves, united by tibro-cartilaginous tissue, in which one or two osseous nuclei are generally found. The body is a mere shell of bone, containing the sockets of the two incisor, the canine, and the two temporary molar teeth, imperfectly partitioned from one another. The dental canal is of large size, and runs near the lower border of the bone, the mental foramen opening beneath the socket of the first molar. The angle is obtuse, from the jaws not being as yet separated by the eruption of the teeth. After birth (fig. 59), the two segments of the bone become joined at the symphysis, from below upwards, in the first year; but a trace of separation may be visible in the beginning of the second year, near the alveolar margin. The body becomes elongated in its whole length, but more especially behind the mental foramen, to provide space for the three additional teeth developed iu this part. The depth of the body becomes greater, owing to increased growth of the alveolar part, to afford room for the fangs of the teeth, and by thickening of the subdental portion which enables the jaw to withstand the powerful action of the masticatory muscles; but the alveolar portion is the deeper of the two, and, conse- quently, the chief part of the body lies above the oblique line. The dental canal, after the second dentition, is situated just above the level of the mylo-hyoid ridge; and the mental foramen occupies the position usual to it in the adult. The angle becomes less obtuse, owing to the separation of the jaws by the teeth. In the adult (fig. 60), the alveolar and basilar portions of the body are usually of equal depth. The mental foramen opens midway between the upper and lower border of the bone, and the dental canal runs nearly parallel with the mylo-hyoid line. The ramus is almost vertical in direction, and joins the body nearly at right angles. In old age (fig. 61), the bone becomes greatly reduced in size ; for, with the loss of the teeth, the alveolar process is absorbed, and the basilar part of the bone alone remains; consequently, the chief part of the bone is beloiv the oblique line. The dental canal, with the mental foramen opening from it, is close to the alveolar border. The rami are oblique in direction, and the angle obtuse. Articulations. With the glenoid fossae of the two temporal bones. Attachment of Muscles. To its external surface, commencing at the symphysis, and proceeding backwards: Levator menti, Depressor labii inferioris, Depressor anguli oris, Platysma myoides, Buccinator, Masseter. To its internal surface, commencing at the same point: Genio-hyo-glossus, Genio-hyoideus, Mylo-hyoideus, Digastric, Superior constrictor, Temporal, Internal pterygoid, External pterygoid. THE SUTURES. The hones of the cranium and face are connected to each other by means of Sutures. The sutures are rows of dentated processes of hone, projecting from the edge of either bone, and locking into each other : the dentations, however, are confined to the external table, the edges of the internal table lying merely in ap- position. The Cranial Sutures may be divided into three sets: 1. Those at the vertex of the skull. 2. Those at the side of the skull. 3. Those at the base. Ihc sutures at the vertex of the skull arc three : the sagittal, coronal, and lamb- doid. The Sagittal, Suture (interparietal) is formed by the junction of the two parietal bones, and extends from the middle of the frontal bone, backwards fo the superior