RIBS WITH TRANSVERSE PROCESS. 161 passing obliquely upwards and outwards, to the lower border of the transverse, process immediately above. It is broader below than above, broader and thinner the lower ribs than between the upper, and more distinct in front than behind. This ligament is in relation, in front, with the intercostal vessels and nerves'- behind with the Longissimus dorsi. Its internal border completes an aperture formed between it and the articular processes, through which pass the posterior branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves. Its external border is continuous with a thin aponeurosis, which covers the External intercostal muscle. The first and last ribs have no anterior costo-transverse ligament. J lS The Middle Costo-Trcmsverse or Interosseous Ligament consists of short, but strong fibres, which pass between the rough_surface on the posterior part of the neck of each rib, and the anterior surface of the adjacent transverse process. In 125.—Ccsto-Transverse Articulation. Seen from above. CAPSULAR MEMBRANE ANTERIOR COSTO-TRANSVERSE LIC MIOOLE COSTO-TRANSVERSE INTEROSSEOUS POSTERIOR COSTO-TRANSVERSE LIGT order fully to expose this ligament, a horizontal section should be made across the transverse process and corresponding part of the rib; or the rib may be forcibly separated from the transverse process, and its fibres put on the stretch. ,. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs, this ligament is quite rudimentary. I11. The Posterior Costo-Transverse Ligament is a short, but thick and strong, fasciculus, which passes obliquely from the summit of the transverse process to the <rough non-articular portion of the tubercle of the rib. This ligament is shorter and more oblique in the upper than in the lower ribs. Those corresponding to the superior ribs ascend, and those of the inferior one slightly descend. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs, this ligament is wanting. // Jx.1 The articular portion of the tubercle ofthe rib, and adjacent transverse process, form an arthrodial joint, provided with a thin Capsular ligament attached to the circumference of the articulating surfaces, and enclosing a small synovial membrane. In the eleventh and twelfth ribs, this articulation is wanting. // - /£ Actions. The movement permitted in these joints is limited to a slight gliding motion of the articular surfaces one upon the other.