191 KNEE-JOINT. 142.—Head of Tibia, with Semilunar Cartilages, etc. Seen from above. blight Side. beino-blended with the anterior extremity of the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and passing obliquely upwards, backwards, and outwards, is inserted into the inner and back part of the outer condyle of the femur; The Posterior or Internal Crucial Ligament is larger in size, but less oblique in its direction than the anterior. It is attached to the back part of the depression behind the spine of the tibia, and to the posterior extremity^ of the external semi- lilunar fibro-cartilage; and passes upwards, forwards, and inwards, to be inserted into the outer and fore-part of the inner condyle of the femur. As it crosses the , anterior crucial ligament, a fasciculus is given off from it, which blends with the posterior part of that ligament. It is in relation, in front, with the anterior l crucial ligament; behind, with the ligamentum posticum Winslowii. The Semilunar Fibro-Cartilages (fig. 142) are two crescentic lam ell®, which 1 are attached to the margins of the head of the tibia, and serve to deepen its b surface for articulation with the condyles of the femur. The circumference of each cartilage is thick and convex; the inner free border, thin and concave. Their upper surfaces are concave, and in relation with the condyles of the femur ; their lower sur- faces are flat, and rest upon the head of the tibia. Each cartilage covers nearly the outer two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, leav- ing the inner third unco- vered ; both surfaces are smooth, and invested by synovial membrane. The Internal Semilunar Fibro-Cartilage is nearly semicircular in form, a little 13longated from before backwards, and broader behind than in front; its convex pborder is united to the internal lateral ligament, and to the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments ; its anterior extremity, thin and pointed, is r. firmly implanted into a depression in front of the inner articular surface of the itibia; its posterior extremity into the depression behind the spine, between the attachment of the external cartilage and posterior cnicial ligament. The External Semilunar Fibro-Cartilaye forms nearly an entire circle, covering a :arger portion of the articular surface than the internal one. It is grooved on its juter side, for the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. Its circumference is held in jonnection with the head of the tibia, by means of the coronary ligaments ; and its 'wo extremities are firmly implanted in the depressions in frontand behind the spine of the tibia. These extremities, at their insertion, are interposed between the jj tttach merits of the internal cartilage. The external semilunar fibro-cartilftge gives 1 off from its anterior border a fasciculus, which forms the transverse ligament. By [ ts anterior extremity, it is continuous with the anterior crucial ligament. Its I oosterior extremity divides into three slips ; two of these pass upwards and forwards, I md are inserted into the outer side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, one in front, f die other behind the posterior crucial ligament; the third fasciculus is inserted E into the back part of the anterior crucial ligament. The Transverse Ligament is a band of fibres, which passes transversely from the | interior convex margin of the external semilunar cartilage to the anterior extremity I internal cartilage ; its thickness varies considerably in different subjects. The Coronary Ligaments consist of numerous short fibrous bands, which con- I oect the convex border of the semilunar cartilages with the circumference of the 1 head of fho tibia, and with the other ligaments surrounding the joint.