Male Generative Organs. Prostate Gland. THE Prostato Gland (Trpoi<rrr)[M, to stand before), is a palo, firm, glandular body, which surrounds the nock of the bladder and commencement of the urethra. It is placed in the pelvic cavity, behind and below the symphysis pubis, posterior to the deep perinceai fascia, and upon the rectum, through which it may be distinctly felt, especially when enlarged. In shape and size it resembles a horse-chestnut. Its base is directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder. The apex is directed forwards to the deep perinoeal fascia, which it touches. Its under surface is smooth, and rests on the rectum, to which it is connected by dense areolar fibrous tissue. Its upper surface is flattened, marked by a slight longitudinal furrow, and placed fabont three-quarters of an inch below the pubic symphysis. It measures about an inch and a half in its transverse diameter at the base, an .inch in its antero-posterior diameter, and three-quarters of an inch in depth. Its 'weight is about six drachms. It is held in its position by the anterior ligaments of the bladder (pubo-prostaiic) ; by the posterior layer of the deep perineeal fascia, which invests the commencement of the membranous portion of the urethra and :prostate gland; and by the anterior portion of the Levator ani muscle (levator vrostatos), which passes down on each side from the symphysis pubis and anterior ligament of the bladder to the sides of the prostate. The prostate consists of three lobes : two lateral and a middle lobe. The two lateral lobes are of equal size, separated behind by a deep notch, and marked by a slight furrow upon their upper and lower surface, which indicates ;he bi-lobed condition of the organ in some animals. The third, or middle lobe, is a small transverse band, occasionally a rounded or triangular prominence, placed between the two lateral lobes, at the under and oosterior part of the organ. It lies immediately beneath the neck of the bladder, toehind the commencement of the urethra, and above the ejaculatory ducts. Its xistence is not constant; but it is occasionally found at an early period of life, as veil as in adults, and in old age. In advanced life it often becomes considerably nlarged, and projects into the bladder, so as to impede the passage of the urine. According to Dr. Messer’s researches, conducted at Greenwich Hospital,* it would eem that this obstruction exists in 20 per cent, of all prostates over sixty years f age. The prostate gland is perforated by the urethra and common seminal ducts. The urethra usually lies about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface ; ccasionally, the prostate surrounds only the lower three-fourths of this tube, and lore rarely the urethra runs through the lower instead of the upper part of the ind. The ejaculatory ducts pass forwards obliquely through a conical canal, ituated in the lower part of the prostate, and open into the prostatic portion of ae urethra. Structure. The prostate is enclosed in a thin but firm fibrous capsule, distinct •om that derived from the posterior layer of the deep perineeal fascia, and ‘sparated from it by a plexus of veins. Its substance is of a pale reddish-grey olour, very friable, but of great density. It consists of glandular substance &and mscular tissue. The glandular substance is composed of numerous follicular pouches, opening 1 on£>^ccl canals, which join to form from twelve to twenty small excretory UC f* 0 follicles arc connected together by areolar tissue, supported by pro- mga ions rom the fibrous capsule, and enclosed in a delicate capillary plexus. Mcd.-Ch/tr. Trans, vol. xliii. p, 152.