MUSCULAR TISSUE. lxi characterised by being apparently marked with very fine, dark lines or strice, which pass transversely round the fibre, in curved or wavy parallel directions, from T^ro to -j^oo of an inclx aPart- Other striae pass lon- gitudinally over the fibres, indicating the direction of the primitive fibrils of which the primitive fasciculus is composed. They are less distinct than the former. The ‘primitive fibrils constitute the proper contractile tissue of the muscle. Each fibril is cylindriform, somewhat flattened, about of Fig. XIX.—Two human muscular fibres, magnified 350 times. In the one, the bundle of fibrillin (b) is torn, and the sarcolemma («) is seen as an empty tube. Fig. XX.—Fragments of striped elementary fibres, showing a cleavage in opposite direc- tions, magnified 300 diameters. A, Longitudi- nal cleavage. The longitudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. This results from partial separation of the fibrillse. c, Fi- brillin separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those on the fibre, c' c", represent two appearances ■ commonly presented by the separated single fibrillin (more highly magnified). At c' the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly rectilinear and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c" the borders are scalloped and the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances. B, Transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines are scarcely visible. a, Incomplete fracture following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the interval, and retains the two fragments in con- nection. The edge and surfaces of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disc, and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines, b, Another disc nearly detached, b', Detached disc, more highly magnified, showing the sarcous elements. an inch in thickness, and marked by transverse strise placed at the same distance from each other as the strise on the surface of the fasciculus. Each fibril apparently consists of a single row of minute particles (named ‘sarcous elements’ by Bowman), connected together like a string of beads. Closer examination, however, shows that the elementary particles are little masses of pellucid substance, having a rectangular outline, and appearing dark in the centre. These appearances would favour the suggestion that the elementary particles of which the fibrils are composed