644 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. The posterior surface is concave, and lias the following structures interposed between it and the first lumbar vertebra : tho superior mesenteric artery and vein, the commencement of tlievona portoe, the vena cava, tho aorta, the left kidney, the suprarenal capsule, and the corresponding renal vessels. The upper border is thick, and has resting upon it, near its centre, the coeliac axis ; tho splenic artery and vein are lodged in a deep groove or canal in this border ; and to the right, tho first part of tho duodenum and tho hepatic artery are in relation with it. The lower border, thinner than tho upper, is separated from the transverse portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein; to the left of these the inferior mesenteric vein ascends behind the pancreas to join the splenic vein. The pancreatic duct, called the canal of Wirsung from its discoverer, extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas, nearer to its lower than its upper border, and lying nearer its anterior than its posterior sur- face. In order to expose it, the superficial portion of the gland must be removed. Traced backwards, it is found to commence by an orifice common to it and the ductus communis choledochus, upon the summit of an elevated papilla, situated at the inner side cf the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle : from this papilla it passes very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats, separates itself from the ductus communis choledochus, and, ascending slightly, runs from right to left through the middle of the gland, giving off numerous branches, which commence in its lobules. Sometimes the pancreatic duct and ductus communis choledochus open separately into the duodenum. The excretory duct of the lesser pancreas is called the ductm pancreaticus minor ; it opens into the main duct near the duodenum, and sometimes separately into that intestine, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill; its walls are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous ; the latter is thin, smooth, and furnished, near its termination, with a few scattered follicles. Sometimes the pancreatic duct is double, up to its point of entrance into the duodenum. In structure, the pancreas closely resembles the salivary glands; but it is looser and softer in its texture. The fluid secreted by it is almost identical with saliva. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries of the pancreas are derived from the splenic, the pancreatico-duodenal branch of the hepatic, and the superior mesenteric. Its veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins. Its lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. Its nerves are filaments from the splenic plexus. The Spleen. The Spleen is usually classified, together with the thyroid, thymus, and suprai’cnal capsules, as one of tho ductless, or blood-glands. It possesses no excretory duct. It is of an oblong flattened form, soft, of very brittle consistence, highly vascular, of a dark bluish-red colour, and situated in the left hypochondriac region, em- bracing the cardiac end of the stomach. It is invested by peritoneum, and connected with the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum. Relations. The external surface is convex, smooth, and in relation with the ' under surface of the Diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs of the left side. The internal surface is slightly concave, aud divided by a vertical fissure, the hilum, into an anterior or larger, and a posterior or smaller portion. The hilum is pierced by several largo irregular apertures, for the entrance and exit of vessels and nerves. At tho margins of the hilum, tho two layers of peritoneum ai’c reflected from the surface of the spleen on to tho