253 OF THE THORAX. of tl.o linea alba, line® somilunaroa, line® transverse; when the dissection of the muscles is complc ’ ] & cord seen along the middle line of the The Unea * ““ ^iform 0artilage to the pubes, it is placed abdomen extui = Recti muscles, and formed by the blending of between tl.e inner bordejs^tlm ^ muscles. It is narrow below, the aponeuroses interval existing between the Itecti, but broader corresponding^ to from one mother in their ascent, becoming of a 'derible breadth after great distension of the abdomen from pregnancy or ““ye. It presents numerous apertures for tbe passage of vessels and nerves ; the tamest of these is the umbilicus, which in the foetus transmits the umbilical vessels but in tbe adult is obliterated, the cicatrix being stronger than the neigh- bouring parts; benco umbilical hernia occurs in the adult above tbe umbilicus, whilst in the foetus it occurs at the umbilicus. The linea a ba is in relation, in frou with the integument, to which it is adherent, especially at the umbilicus-, behind, it is separated from tbe peritoneum by the transversals fascia ; and below, bv tbe urachus, and the bladder, when that organ is distended. b‘ The linea) semihmares are two curved tendinous lines placed one on each side of the linea alba. Each corresponds with the outer border of the Rectus muscle extends from the cartilage of the eighth rib to the pubes, and is forn e byUtbe aponeurosis of the Internal oblique at its point of division to enclose the Rectus, where it is reinforced in front and behind by the External oblique an T T?eXet‘fra»suereCe are three or four narrow transverse lines which mterseot tbe Rectus muscle as already mentioned : they connect the line® semilunares with the linea alba. . Actions The abdominal muscles perform a threefold action. ... men the pelvis and thorax are fixed, they compress the abdominal viscera bv constricting tbe cavity of tbe abdomen, in which action they are materially assisted by the descent of the diaphragm. By those means the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the feces from the rectum, the urme from the bladder, and contents from the stomach in vomiting. thorax If the spine is fixed, these muscles compress the lower pait of the thora mater all assisting in expiration. If the spine is not fixed the thorax is bent directly forward, when the muscles of both sides act, or to either side when those of the two sides act alternately, rotation of the trunk at the same time taking place to the opposite side. -1 If the thorax is fixed, these muscles acting together, draw the pelvis upwards, as in climbing; exacting singly, they draw the pelvis upwards and rotate t e vertebral column to one side or the other. The Recti muscles, acting from belou, depress the thorax, and consequenty flex the vertebral column ; when acting rom above, they flex the pelvis upon the vertebral column. The Pyramidales are tensors of the linea alba. _ . , . , The Quadratus lumborum, by the portion inserted into the last rib, draws down and fixes that bone, acting thereby as a muscle of forced expiration : by the portion inserted into the lumbar vertebrae, it draws the spine towards the ilium, and thus inclines the trunk towards its own side: or, if the thorax and spine he fixed it may act upon the pelvis—raising it towards its own side when on y one muscle is put in action, and when both muscles act together, either from below or above, they flex the trunk. Muscles and Fascia of the Thorax. The Muscles exclusively connected with the bones in this region .ue l»v number. They are the Intorcostales Extend. Infracostales. Intercostales Intend. Triangularis Sterni. Lovatores Costavum.