247 OF THE ABDOMEN. tlJ. U Jj. ^ * lower ones diminish in S^K0 h’om above 162.—Dissection of Abdomen arc received betweert corresponding processes of the Serratus magnus; the three downwards, receiving between them cor- responding processes from the Latissimus dorsi. From these attachments, the fleshy fibres proceed in various directions. Those from the lowest ribs pass nearly verti- cally downwards, to be inserted into the anterior halt of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium; the middle and upper fibres, directed downwards and forwards, ter- minate in tendinous fibres, which spread out into a broad aponeurosis. This apo- neurosis, joined with that of the opposite muscle along the median line, covers the whole of the front of the abdomen; above it is connected with the lower border of the Pectoralis major; below, its fibres are closely aggregated together, and extend obliquely across from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the os pubis and the pectineal line. In the median line, it interlaces with the apo- neurosis of the opposite muscle, forming the linea alba, and extends from the ensi- form cartilage to the symphysis pubis.. That portion of the aponeurosis which Q^+o-nrla "hp+.wpfin the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the os pubis, is a broad band, folded inwards, and continuous below with the fascia lata ; it is called Poupart s ligament. T e portion which is reflected from Poupart’s ligament into the pectineal line is called Gimbernat's ligament * From the point of attachment of the latter to the pectineal line, a few fibres pass upwards and inwards, beneath the inner pillar of the ling, to the linea alba. They diverge as they ascend, and form a thin, triangular, fibrous band, which is called the triangular ligament. In the aponeurosis of the External oblique, immediately above the crest of the os pubis, is a triangular opening, the external abdominal ring, formed by a sepa- ration of the fibres of the aponeurosis in this situation : it serves for the trans- mission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. This opening is directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded, below, by the crest of the os pubis; above, by some curved fibres, which pass across the aponeurosis at the upper angle of the ring, so as to increase its strength ; and, on either side, by the margins of the aponeurosis, which are called the pillars of the ring. Of these, the external, which is, at the same time, inferior, from the obliquity of its direction, is inserted into the spine of the os pubis. The internal, or superior pillar is attached to the front of the symphysis pubis, and interlaces with the corresponding fibres of tho opposite muscle, the fibros of the right muscle being superficial. To the margins of the pillars of the external abdominal ring is attached an exceedingly thin and delicate fascia, which is prolonged down ovei the outer surface of the cord and testis. This has received the name of intei- cobimnar fascia, from its Attachment to tho pillars of the ring. It is also callec the external spermatic fascia, from being the most external of the fascia) which cover the spermatio cord. Relations. By its external surface, with tho superficial fascia, superficial epi^ gastric and circumflex iliac vessels, and some cutaneous nerves. l»3r l'derna * 1 * All these parte wil-l he found more particularly described below, with tin . m.. Anatomy of Hernia.