BLADDER. high as the upper border of the symphysis pubis. When slightly distended, it \8 a rounded form, and partially fills the pelvic cavity; and when greatly dis- laded, it is ovoid in shape, rising into the abdominal cavity, and often extending 8>ry as higli as the umbilicus. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from V 8!fe’.aild .itS long axis is directed from ahove obliquely downwards and c wai s, in a line directed from somo point between the pubes and umbilicus ccordmg to its distension) to the end of the coccyx. The bladder, when nc ec, is slightly curved forwards towards tho anterior wall of the abdomen as o e moie convex behind than in front. In tho female, it is larger in tho ,nsvu sc iun in the vertical diameter, and its capacity is said to be greater by the Obturator muscles ; above, it communicates with the cavity of the abdomen ; and below, it is limited by the Levatores ani and Coccygei muscles, and the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, which is reflected from the wall of the pelvis on to the viscera. Contents. Tho viscera contained in this cavity are the urinary bladder, tho rectum, and some of the generative organs peculiar to each sex: they are partially covered by the peritoneum, and supplied with blood and lymphatic vessels and nerves. The Bladder. The bladder is the reservoir for the urine. It is a musculo-membranous sac, situated in the pelvis, behind the pubes, and in front of the rectum in the male, the uterus and vagina intervening between it andjthat intestine in the female. The shape, position, and relations of the bladder are greatly influenced by age, x ssex, and the degrees of distension of the organ. Curing infancy, it is conical in I sshape, and projects above the upper boi’der of the pubes into the hypogastric ■region. In the adult, when quite empty and contracted, it is a small triangular i <sac, placed deeply in the pelvis, flattened from before backwards, its apex reaching 375-—Vertical Section of Bladder, Penis, and Urethra.