223 INFRA-HYOID RFGION. Variations. This muscle is sometimes continuous with the Thyro-hyoid and Inferior con- strictor of the pharynx; and a lateral prolongation from it sometimes passes as far as the os liyoides. Relations By its anterior surface, with the Sterno-hyoid, Omo-liyoid, and Sterno-mastoid. By its posterior surface, from below upwards, with the trachea, vena innominata, common carotid (and on the right side the aiterm imiominata), the thyroid gland and its vessels, and the lower part of the larynx. The middle thyroid vein°lies along its inner border, a relation which it is important to remem- ber in the operation of tracheotomy. 154.—Muscles of the Neck. Anterior View. The Tlujro-Hyoicl is a small quadrilateral muscle appearing like a continuation of the Sterno-thyroid. It arises from the oblique line on the side of the thyroid cartilage, and passes vertically upwards to be inserted in the louver border of the body and greater cornu of the hyoid bone. fielaUonsi'By its external surface, with the Sterno-hyoid and Omo-liyoid muscles. By its internal surface, with the thyroid cartilage, the thyro-hyoid mem- brane, and the superior laryngeal vessels and nerve. The Omo-Ilyoid passes across the side of the neck, from the scapula to the hyoid bone. It consists of two fleshy bellies, united by a central tendon. It arises from the 11 pper border of the scapula, and occasionally from the transverse liga- ment whichcrosses tEe~suprascapular notchT'Tts extent of attachment to the scapula varying from a few lines to an inch. From this origin, the posterior belly forms a Hat, narrow fasciculus, which inclines forwards across the lower part of the neck , behind the Sterno-mastoid muscle, where it becomes tendinous, it changes its direction, forming an obtuse angle, and ascends almost vertically upwards, close to the outer border of the Sterno-liyoid, to bo inserted into the lower border ol the body of the og_liyoides, just external to the insertion of the Sterno-hyoid. 1 he tendon of this muscle, which varies much in its length and form in different subjects, is held in its position by a process of the deep cervical fascia, which j> f L r