194 ARTICULATIONS. anterior tibial artery forwards to the anterior aspect of the leg; and at its lower part an opening for the passage of the anterior peroneal vessels. It is continuous below with the inferior interosseous ligament; and is perforated in numerous parts for the passage of small vessels. It is in relation in front with the Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius pollicis, Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve ; behind, with the Tibialis posticus and Flexor longus pollicis. 3. Inferior Tibio-Fibular Articulation. This articulation is formed by the rough convex surface of the inner side of the lower end of the fibula, connected with a similar rough surface on the outer side of the tibia. Below, to the extent of about two lines, these surfaces are smooth and covered with cartilage, which is continuous with that of the ankle- joint. The ligaments of this joint are— Inferior Interosseous. Posterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular. Anterior Inferior Tibio-Fibular. Transverse. The Inferior Interosseous Ligament consists of numerous short, strong fibrous bands, which pass between the contiguous rough services of the tibia and fibula, and constitute the chief bond of union between the bones. This ligament is con- tinuous, above, with the interosseous membrane. The Anterior Inferior Ligament (fig. 144) is a flat, triangular band of fibres, broader below than above, which extends obliquely downwards and outwards between the adjacent margins of the tibia and fibula on the front aspect of the articulation. It is in relation, in front, with the Peroneus tertius, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the integument; behind, with the inferior interosseous ligament ; and lies in contact with the cartilage covering the astragalus. The Posterior Inferior Ligament, smaller than the preceding, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Transverse Ligament is a long narrow band, continuous with the pre- ceding, passing transversely across the back of the joint, from the external malleolus to the tibia, a short distance from its malleolar process. This ligament projects below the margin of the bones, and forms part of the articulating surface for the astragalus. The Synovial Membrane lining the artioular surface is derived from that of the ankle-joint. Actions. The movement permitted in these articulations is limited to a very slight gliding of the articular surfaces one upon another. IV. Ankle-Joint. The AnJcle is a ginglymus or hinge joint. The bones entering into its forma- tion are the lower extremity of the tibia and its malleolus, and its malleolus of the fibula. These bones are united above, and form an arch, to receive the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. The bony surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments:— Anterior. Internal Lateral. External Lateral. The Anterior or Tibio-tarsal Ligament (fig. 143) is a broad, thin, membranous layer, attached, above, to the margin of the articular surface of the tibia; below to the margin of the astragalus, in front of its articular surface. It is in relation, in front, with the Extensor tendons of the toes, with the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve; behind, it lies in contact with the synovial membrane. The Internal Lateral or Deltoid Ligammi consists of two layers, superficial and