262 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. forms the anterior margin of tho axilla, being at first separated from the Latissimus dorsi by a considerable interval; but both muscles gradually convergo towards tbe outor part of tbe space. Peculiarities. In muscular subjects, the sternal origins of the two Pectoral muscles are separated only by a narrow interval; but this interval is enlarged where these muscles are ill developed. Very rarely, the whole of the sternal portion is deficient. Occasionally, one or two additional muscular slips arise from the aponeurosis of the External oblique, and become united to the lower margin of the Pectoralis major. A slender muscular slip is occasionally found lying parallel with the outer margin of the sternum, overlapping the origin of the pectoral muscle. It is attached, by one end, to the upper part of the sternum near the origin of the sterno-mastoid; and, by the other, to the anterior wall of the sheath of the Rectus abdominis. It has received the name ‘ Rectus stemalis.’ Dissection. Detach the Pectoralis major by dividing the muscle along its attachment to the clavicle, and by making a vertical incision through its substance a little external to its line of attachment to the sternum and costal cartilages. The muscle should then be reflected outwards, and its tendon carefully examined. The Pectoralis minor is now exposed, and immediately above it, in the interval between its upper border and the clavicle, a strong fascia, the costo-coracoid membrane. Tbe costo-coracoid membrane protects tbe axillary vessels and nerves ; it is very thick and dense externally, where it is attached to tbe coracoid process, and is continuous with tbe fascia of tbe arm ; more internally, it is connected with the lower border of tbe clavicle, as far as tbe sternal extremity of tbe first rib ; traced downwards, it passes behind tbe Pectoralis minor, surrounding, in a more or less complete sheath, tbe axillary vessels and nerves ; and above, it sends a prolongation behind tbe Subclavius, which is attached to tbe lower border of tbe clavicle, and so encloses tbe muscle in a kind of sheath. Tbe costo-coracoid membrane is pierced by tbe cephalic vein, tbe tboracico-acromialis artery and vein, superior ^ thoracic artery and anterior thoracic nerve. Tbe Pectoralis Minor (fig. 170) is a thin, flat, triangular muscle, situated at the upper part of tbe thorax, beneath tbe Pectoralis major. It arises by three ' tendinous digitations, from tbe upper margin and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages, and from the aponeurosis covering the Inter- costal muscles ; the fibres pass upwards and outwards, and converge to form a flat tendon, which is inserted into the anterior border of the coracoid process of the scapula. Delations. By its anterior surface, with the Pectoralis major, and the superior thoracic vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface, wth the ribs, Intercostal muscles, Serratus magnus, the axillary space, and the axillary vessels and nerves. Its upper border is separated from the clavicle by a triangular interval, broad internally, narrow externally, bounded in front by the costo-coracoid membrane and internally by the ribs. In this space are seen the axillary vessels and nerves. The costo-coracoid membrane should now be removed, when the Subclavius muscle will be seen. VL. The Subclavius is a long, thin, spindle-shaped muscle, placed in the interval between the clavicle and the first rib. It arises by a short, thick tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, in front of the rhomboid ligament; the fleshy fibres proceed obliquely outwards, to be inserted into a deep groove on the under surface of the middle third of the clavicle. Relations. By its upper surface, with the clavicle. By its under surface, it is separated from the first rib by the axillary vessels and nerves. Its anterior surface is separated from the Pectoral major by a strong aponeurosis, which, with the clavicle, forms an osteo-fibrous sheath in which the muscle is enclosed. If the costal attachment of the Pectoralis minor is divided across, and the muscle re- flected outwards, the axillary vessels and nerves are brought fully7- into view, and should be examined. Nerves. The Pectoral muscles are supplied by the anterior thoracic nerves ; the Subclavius, by a filament from the cord formed by the union of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Actions. If the arm has been raised by the Deltoid, the Pectoralis major will