718 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. enlarged during lactation, and present the appearance of small tubercles beneath the skin. These glands secrete a peculiar fatty substance, which serves as a pro- tection to the integument of the nipple in the act of sucking. The nipple consists of numerous vessels, which form a kind of erectile tissue, intermixed with plain muscular fibres. Structure. The mamma consists of gland-tissue ; of fibrous tissue, connecting its lobes ; and of fatty tissue in the intervals between the lobes. The mammary gland, when freed from cellular tissue and fat, is of a pale reddish colour, firm in texture, circular in form, flattened from before backwards, thicker in the centre than at the circumference, and presenting several inequalities on its surface, especi- ally in front. It consists of numerous lobes, and these are composed of lobules, connected together by areolar tissue, blood-vessels and ducts. The smallest lobules consist of a cluster of rounded vesicles, which open into the smallest branches of the lactiferous ducts ; these ducts uniting, form larger ducts, which terminate in a single canal, corresponding with one of the chief subdivisions of the gland. The number of excretory ducts varies from fifteen to twenty: they are termed the tubuli lactiferi, galactophori. They converge towards the areola, beneath which they form dilatations, or ampullae, which serve as reservoirs for the milk, and, at the base of the nipple, become contracted, and pursue a straight course to its summit, perforating it by separate orifices considerably narrower than the ducts themselves. The ducts are composed of areolar tissue, with longitudinal and transverse elastic fibres, and longitudinal muscular fibres: their mucous lining is continuous, at the point of the nipple, with the integument: the epithelium is of the tesselated or scaly variety. The fibrous tissue invests the entire surface of the breast, and sends down septa between its lobes, connecting them together. The fatty tissue surrounds the surface of the gland, and occupies the intervals between its lobes and lobules. It usually exists in considerable abundance, and determines the form and size of the gland. There is no fat immediately beneath the ai-eola and nipple. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the mammae are derived from the thoracic branches of the axillary, the intercostals, and internal mammary. The veins describe an anastomotic circle round the base of the nipple, called by Haller the circulus venosus. From this, large branches transmit the blood to the cir- cumference of the gland, and end in the axillary and internal mammary veins. The lymphatics run along the lower border of the Pectoralis major to the axillary glands. The nerves are derived from the anterior and lateral cutaneous nerves of the thorax.