1 GENERAL ANATOMY. BONE. Structure and Physical Properties of Bone.—Bone is one of the hardest structures of the animal body; it possesses also a certain degree of tough- ■ ness and elasticity. Its colour, in a fresh state, is of a pinkish "white externally, and deep red within. On examining a section of any bone, it is seen to be composed of two kinds of tissue, one of which is dense and compact in texture, like ivory : the other consisting of slender fibres and lamellae, which join to form a reticular structure; this, from its resem- blance to lattice work, is called cancellous. The compact tissue is always placed on the exterior of a bone; the cancellous tissue is always internal. The relative quantity of these two kinds of tissue varies in different bones, and in different parts of the same bone, as strength or lightness is re- quisite. Close examination of the compact tissue shows it to be extremely porous, so that the difference in structure between it and the cancellous tissue depends merely upon the different amount of solid matter, and the size and number of the spaces in each; the cavities being small in the compact tissue, and the solid matter between them abundant; whilst in the cancellous tissue the spaces are large, and the solid matter in smaller quantity. Bone during life is permeated by vessels, and is enclosed in a fibrous membrane, the periosteum, by means of which most of these vessels reach the hard tissue. If the periosteum be stripped from the surface of the living bone, small bleeding points are seen, which mark the entrance of the periosteal vessels ; and on section during life every part of the bone will be seen to exude blood, from the minute vessels which ramify in the Haversian canals. The interior of the bones of the limbs presents a cylin- drical cavity filled with marrow, and lined by a highly vascular areolar membrane, the medullary membrane or internal periosteum. The larger Haversian canals are also filled with marrow. The periosteum adheres to the surface of the bones in nearly every part, excepting at their cartilaginous extremities. Where strong tendons or ligaments are attached to the bone, the periosteum is incorporated with them. It consists of two layers closely united together; the outer one formed chiefly of connective tissue, containing occasionally a few fat-cells; the inner one, of elastic fibres of the finer kind, forming dense membranous networks, which can be again separated into several layers (Kolliker). In young bones the periosteum is thick, and very vascular, and is intimatety connected at either end of the bone with the epiphysical cartilage, but less closely with the shaft, from which it is separated by a layer of soft blastema, in which ossification proceeds on the exterior of the young bone. Later in life the periosteum is thinner, less vascular, and more closely connected with the adjacent bone, this adhesion growing stronger as age advances. The periosteum serves as a nidus for the ramification of the vessels previous to their distribution in the bone ; hence the liability of bone to exfoliation or necrosis, when, from injury, it is denuded of this membrane. The marrow differs in composition at different periods of life, and in different bones. In young bones, it is a transparent reddish fluid, of