GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL. 5T5 internally, with the cartilaginous part of the Eustachian tube, and the origin of the Tensor palati muscle; behind it, is the middle meningeal artery. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the inferior maxillary nerve, and its mternal^te^goid branch, by two or three short, delicate filaments, and also with tho anriculo-tomnoral nerve; from the former it obtains its motor; from the latter, its sensory root; its communication with the sympathetic being effected by a filament from tho plexus surrounding the middle meningeal artery. This ganglion also communicates with the glosso- pharyngeal and facial nerves, through the small petrosal nerve continued from the tympanic ploxus. Its branches of distribution are a filament to the Tensor tympani, and one to the Tensor palati. The former passes backwards, on the outer side of the Eustachian tube; the latter arises from the ganglion, near the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve, and passes forwards, YrbtyLcir- fit rnU (r Submaxillary Ganglion. The submaxillary ganglion (fig. 277) is of small size, circular in form, and situated above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, near the posterior border of the Mylo-hyoid muscle, being connected by filaments with the lower border of ithe gustatory nerve. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the gustatory (urtr nerve by a few filaments which join it separately, at its fore and back part. It also receives a branch from the chorda tympani, by -which it communicates with the facial; and communicates with the sympathetic by filaments from the nervi molles—the sympathetic plexus around the facial artery. ^ Branches of distribution. These are five or six in number ; they arise from the ^ ^lia-L lower part of the ganglion, and supply the mucous membrane of the mouth and 'Wharton’s duct, some being lost in the submaxillary gland. According to Meckel, a branch from this ganglion occasionally descends in front of the Iiyo-glossus muscle, and, after joining with one from the hypoglossal, passes to the Genio-liyo- iglossus muscle. Eighth Pair. Juynlar Gangl. J**trous Grtnr/f. Ty mpanic hr. Glontio- P/irtry jigeul The eighth 'pair consists of three nerves, the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, iiind spinal accessory. The Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve is distributed, as its name implies, to the 280.—Nerves of the Eighth Pair, their ton8l,e and larynx, being the nerve of Origin, Ganglia, aud Communications. sensation to the mucous membrane of the pharynx, fauces, and tonsil; of motion to the Pharyngeal muscles ; and a special nerve of taste in all the parts of the tongue to which it is distributed. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the eighth paii’, and arises by three or four filaments, closely connected together, from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. Its deep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the lateral tract, to a mcleus of grey matter at the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, ixternal to the fasciculi teretes. From its superficial origin, it passes outwards xcross the flocculus, and leaves the skull at the central part of the jugular foramen, n a separate sheath of the dura mater and arachnoid, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. In its passage through the jugular foramen, it grooves the lower border of the petrous portionofthe temporal bone ; and, at its oxit from die skull, passes forwards between tho^jugufar vein and internal carotid artery, xnd descends in front of the latter vessel, and beneath the styloid process and the 1. a 2 Pneumo-gartrio