ex vi GENERAL ANATOMY. part (Nachliirn, after-brain) forms the medulla oblongata, with the resti- form bodies and auditory nerves. When the medullary groove is closed, the foetal spinal marrow at first occupies the whole of the canal so formed. It presents at first a large central canal, which gradually contracts, and in after life is no longer perceptible to the eye, though it is still visible on microscopic sections (v. p. lxxiii). After the fourth month the spinal column begins to grow in length more rapidly than the medulla, so that the latter no longer occupies the whole canal. The ganglia and anterior roots of the nerves are perceptible at the fourth week, the posterior roots at the sixth. The cord is com- posed at first entirely of uniform-looking cells, which soon separate into two layers, the inner of which forms the epithelium of the central canal, while the outer forms the central grey substance of the cord. The white columns are formed later; their rudiments can be detected about the fourth week. The central canal of the spinal cord is at first unclosed Fig. LVI.—Section of the medulla in the cervical region, at six weeks, magnified 50 dia- meters. 1, Central canal. 2, Its epithelium. 3, Anterior grey matter. 4, Posterior grey matter. 5, Anterior commissure. 6, Posterior portion of the canal, closed by the epithelium only. 7, Anterior column. 8, Lateral column. 9, Posterior column. 10, Anterior roots. 11, Posterior roots. behind, except by the epithelial layer, but at the age of nine weeks the medullary substance is united here also. The ganglia appear to be developed from the proto vertebral discs, and it is possible that the posterior roots also are; the anterior roots proceed from the medulla itself. The development of the nerves has not yet been followed. The sympathetic can be seen as a knotted cord at the end of the second month. The cerebral and Spinal membranes are also, according to Kolliker, a production from the protovertebral discs, and are recognisable about the sixth week. As the fissures separating the parts of the cerebro-spinal axis appear, the membranes extend down them, and the pia mater passes into the cerebral ventricles. Bisclioff, however, describes the pia mater and arachnoid as developed from the cerebral vesicles, and formed in the position which they permanently occupy. Development of the eye.—The first rudiment of the eye is seen about the third week, in a vesicle (primitive ocular vesicle), which communicates mth the first cerebral vesicle, and after the latter is divided into two, municates with its posterior division—the Zwischenliirn or interme- din by a hollow stalk, which afterwards becomes the optic nerve.