BONE. lix week; then, in the vertebrae, humerus, femur, the ribs, and the car- tilaginous portion of the occipital bone. At the end of the second, and commencement of the third month, the frontal bone, the scapula, the bones of the fore-arm and leg, and upper jaw, make their appearance. In the third month, the remaining cranial bones, with few exceptions, the metatarsus, the metacarpus, and the phalanges, begin to ossify. In the fourth month, the iliac bones, and the ossicula auditus. In the fourth or fifth month, the ethmoid, sternum, os pubis, and ischium. From the sixth to the seventh month, the calcaneum, and astragalus. In the eighth month, the hyoid bone. At birth, the epiphyses of all the cylindrical bones, with the exception of the lower epiphysis of the femur, and occasionally the upper epiphysis of the tibia; all the bones of the carpus ; the five smaller ones of the tarsus; the patella; the sesamoid bones; and the coccyx,* are still unossified. From the time of birth to the fourth year, osseous nuclei make their appearance also in these parts. At twelve years, in the pisiform bone. The number of ossific centres is different in different bones. In most of the short bones, ossification commences by a single point in the centre, and proceeds towards the circumference. In the long bones, there is a central point of ossification for the shaft or diaphysis ; and one or more for each extremity, the epiphyses. That for the shaft is first to appear; those for the extremities appear later. The union of the epi- physes with the shaft takes place in the inverse order to that in which their ossification began; for although ossification commences latest in those epiphyses towards which the nutrient artery in the several bones is directed, they become joined to the diaphyses sooner than the epiphyses at the opposite extremity, with the exception of the fibula, the lower end of which commences to ossify at an earlier period than the upper end, but, nevertheless, is joined to the shaft earliest. The order in which the epiphyses become united to the shaft, appears to be regulated by the direction of the nutrient artery of the bone. Thus, the arteries of the bones of the arm and fore-arm are directed towards the elbow, and the epiphyses of the bone forming this joint become united to the shaft before those at the opposite extremity. In the lower extremities, on the contrary, the nutrient arteries pass in a direction from the knee ; that is, upwards in the femur, downwards in the tibia and fibula; and in them it is observed, that the upper epiphysis of the femur, and the lower epiphyses of the tibia and fibula, become first united to the shaft. Where there is only one epiphysis, the medullary artery is directed toAvards that end of the bone Avliere there is no additional centre: as, toAvards the acromial end in the clavicle; towards the distal end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and great toe ; and towards the proximal end of the other metacarpal and metatarsal bones. Besides these epiphyses for the articular ends, there are others (more commonly called apophyses) for projecting parts, or processes, which are * On the development of the coccyx, vide infra, p. 17.