381 BRANCHES OF ULNAR. this process and the olecranon, it lies beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, ascending between the heads of that muscle, beneath the ulnar nerve; it supplies the neigh- bouring muscles and joint, 221. -Arteries of the Back of the Forearm and Hand. I Descending SraruJi from Stiji e rior Prof* -nda- Aurtslo n/ofi ret ffagna 'Posterior- Uina r K.-ru r re Jit Pusterinr Tvteroxse.ou* and anastomoses with the inferior profunda, anasto- inotica magna, and inter- osseous recurrent arteries (fig. 221). The interosseous artery (fig. 220) is a short trunk, about an inch in length, and of considerable size, which arises immediately below the tuberosity of the radius, and, passing back- wards to the upper border of the interosseous mem- brane, divides into two branches, the anterior and posterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous passes down the forearm on the anterior surface of the interosseous mem- brane, to which it is con- nected by a thin aponeur- otic arch. It is accom- panied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and overlapped by the con- tiguous margins of the Flexor profundus digito- rum and Flexor longus pollicis muscles, giving off in this situation muscular branches, and the nutrient arteries of the radius and ulna. At the upper border of the Pronator quadratus, a branch descends in front of that muscle, to anasto- mose in front of the carpus with branches from the anterior carpal and deep palmar arch. The continu- ation of the artery passes behind the Pronator quad- ratus (fig. 221), and, pierc- ing the interosseous mem- brane, descends to the back of the wrist, where it an- astomoses with the poste- rior interosseous and the posterior carpal brahehes of the radial and ulnar arteries. rLhe anterior interosseous gives off a long, slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve, and gives offsets to its substance. This, the median artery, is some- times much enlarged. Ihe posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through the interval between Foster tor Carpal ^ l/lnur j Termination of \A n teri07-Interosseous Foster/or C ctrpcLl (JZadial) JDorsalis Pallia. —Dorsalis Indicts