109 METACARPUS. Attachment of Muscles. To two : tho Flexor brevis minimi cligiti, the Flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. The Metacarpus. The Metacarpal bones are five in number : they are long cylindrical bones, presenting for examination a shaft, and two extiemities. Common Characters of the Metacarpal Bones. The shaft is prismoid in form, and curved longitudinally, so as to be convex in the longitudinal direction behind, concave in front. It presents three surfaces : two lateral, and one posterior. The lateral stcrfaces are concave, for the attach- ment of the Interossei muscles, and separated from one another by a prominent line. The posterior or dorsal surface is triangular, smooth, and flattened below, and covered, in the recent state, by the tendons of the Extensor muscles. In its upper half it is divided by a ridge into two narrow lateral depressions, for the attachment of the Dorsal interossei muscles. This ridge bifurcates a little above the centre of the bone, and its branches run to the small tubercles on each side of the digital extremity. The carpal extremity, or base, is of a cuboidal form, and broader behind than in front: it articulates above with the carpus, and on each side with the adjoining metacarpal bones ; its dorsal and palmar surfaces being rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. The digital extremity, or head, presents an oblong surface, flattened at each side, for articulation with the first phalanx ; it is broader, and extends farther forwards in front than behind, and is longer in the antero-posterior than in the transverse diameter. On either side of the head is a deep depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for the attachment of the lateral ligament of the metacarpo-phalangeal joint. The posterior surface, broad and flat, supports the Extensor tendons; the anterior surface presents a median groove, bounded on each side by a tubercle, for the passage of the Flexor tendons. Peculiar Characters of the Metacarpal Bones. The metacarpal hone of the thumb is shorter and wider than the rest, diverges to a greater degree from the carpus, and its palmar surface is directed inwards towards the palm. The shaft is flattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and does not present the bifurcated ridge which is found on the other metacarpal bones ; it is concave from before backwards on its palmar surface. The carpal extremity, or base, presents a concavo-convex surface, for articulation with the trapezium, and has no lateral facets. The digital extremity is less convex than that of the other meta- carpal bones, broader from side to side than from before backwards, and terminates anteriorly in a small articular eminence on each side, over which play two sesamoid bones. The metacarpal hone of the index finger is the longest, and its base the largest of the other four. Its carpal extremity is prolonged upwards and inwards. The dorsal and palmar surfaces of this extremity are rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. It presents four articular facets : the first, at the end of the bone, is concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, and articu- lates with the trapezoid; the second, on the radial side, is a flat quadrilateral facet, for the trapezium; the third, which occupies the outer part of the ulnar side of the extremity, is a long narrow facet, for the os magnum ; and the fourth, which occupies the inner part of the same side, is a considerably broader surface, for the third metacarpal bone. I he metacarpal hone of the middle finger is a little smaller than the preceding ; it presents a pyramidal eminence on the radial side of its base (dorsal aspect), which extends upwards behind the os magnum. The carpal articular facet is concave behind, flat and horizontal in front, and corresponds to the os magnum. O11 the radial side is a smooth concave facet, lor articulation with tho second metacarpal