580 ORGANS OF SENSE. covers its surface, and are continuous round the margin [of the capsule with the vessels of the pupillary membrane, and with those of the iris. In the adult no vessels enter its substance. The lens is a transparent, double-convex body, the convexity being greater on the posterior than on the anterior sui-face. It measures about a third of an inch in the transverse diameter, and about one-fourth in the antero-posterior. It con- sists of concentric layers, of which the external, in the fresh state, are soft and easily detached ; those beneath are firmer, thecentral ones forming a hardened nucleus. These lamina) are best de- monstrated by boiling, or immersion in alcohol. The same re-agents demonstrate that the lens consists of three triangular segments, the sharp edges of which are directed towards the centre, the bases towards the circumference. The laminae consist of minute parallel fibres, which are united to each other by means of wavy margins, the convexities upon one fibre fitting accurately into the concavities of the adjoining fibre. The changes produced in the lens by age, are the following :— In the foetus, its form is nearly spherical, its colour of a slightly reddish tint, it is not perfectly transparent, and is so soft as to break down readily on the slightest pressure. In the adult, the posterior surface is more convex than the anterior ; it is colourless, transparent, and firm in texture. In old age, it becomes flattened on both surfaces, slightly opaque, of an amber tint, and increases in density. The suspensory ligament of the lens is a thin, transparent membranous struc- ture, placed between the vitreous body and the ciliary processes of the choroid ; it connects the anterior mar-gin of the retina with the anterior surface of the lens near its circumference. It assists in retaining the lens in its position. Its outer surface presents a number of folds or plaitings, in which the corresponding folds of the ciliary processes are received. These plaitings are ai’ranged round the lens in a radiating form, and are stained by the pigment of the ciliary processes. The suspensory ligament consists of two layers, which commence behind, at the ora serrata. The external, a tough, milky, granular membrane, covers the inner surface of the ciliary processes, and extends as far forwards as their anterior free extremities. The inner layer, an elastic, transparent, fibro-membranous structure, extends as far forwards as the anterior surface of the capsule of the lens, near its circumference. That portion of this membrane which intervenes between the ciliary processes and the capsule of the lens, forms part of the boun- dary of the posterior chamber of the eye. The posterior surface of this layer is turned towards the hyaloid membrane, being separated from it at the circumference of the lens by a space called the canal of Petit. The canal of Petit is about one-tenth of an inch wide. It is bounded in front by the suspensory ligament; behind, by the hyaloid membrane, its base being formed by the capsule of the lens. When inflated with air, it is sacculated at intervals, owing to the foldings on its anterior surface. The Vessels of the globe of the eye are the short, long, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centralis retinao. The short ciliary arteries pierce the back part of the sclerotic, round the entrance of the optic nerve, and divide into branches which run parallel with the axis of the eyeball: they are distributed to the middle layer of the choroid, and to the ciliary processes. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the back part of the sclerotic, and run forward, between that membrane and the choroid, to the Ciliary muscle, 30 ).—The Crystalline Lens, hardened and divided. (Enlarged.)