190 ARTICULATIONS. Plantaris, and Popliteus muscles5 the central portion is formed of fasciculi, obliquely directed and separated from one another by apertures for the passage of vessels. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the Semi-membra- nosus, and passes from the back part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, obliquely upwards and outwards to the back part of the outer condyle of the femur. The posterior ligament forms part oT the floor of tho'^jopliteal space,lind the popliteal artery rests upon it. The Internal Lateral Ligament is a broad, flat, membranous band, thicker behind than in front, and situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the inner tuberosity of the femur ; below, to the inner tuberosity and inner surface of the sjiaft of the tibia, to the extent of about two inches. It is crossed, at its lower part, by the aponeurosis of the Sartorius, and the tendons of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus muscles, a synovial bursa being interposed. Its deep surface covers the anterior portion of the tendon of the Semi- membranosus, the synovial membrane of the joint, and the inferior internal articular artery ; it is intimately adherent to the internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. The Long External Lateral Ligament is a strong, rounded, fibrous cord, situated nearer to the back than the front of the joint. It is attached, above, to the outer condyle of the femur; below, to the outer part of the head of the fibula. Its outer surface is covered by the tendon of the Biceps, which divides at its insertion into two parts, separated by the ligament. The ligament has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle, and the inferior external articular vessels and nerve. The Short External Lateral Ligament is an accessory bundle of fibres, placed behind and parallel with the preceding attached, above, to the lower parpof the outer condyle of the femur: below, to the summit of the styloicTprocess of the fibula. This ligament is intimately con- nected with the capsular ligament, and has, passing beneath it, the tendon of the Popliteus muscle. The Capsular Ligament consists of an exceedingly thin, but strong, fibrous membrane, which fills in the intervals left by the preceding ligaments. It is attached to the femur immediately above its articular surface ; below, to the upper border and sides of the patella and the margins of the head of the tibia and inter- articular cartilages, and is continuous behind with the posterior ligament. This membrane is strengthened by fibrous ex- pansions, derived from the fascia lata, from the Vasti and Crureus muscles, and from the Biceps, Sartorius, and tendon of the Semimembranosus. The Crucial are two interosseous liga- ments of considerable strength, situated in the interior of the joint, nearer its posterior than its anterior part. They are called crucial, because they cross each other, somewhat like the lines of the letter X ; and have received the names anterior and posterior, from the position of their attachment to the tibia. The Anterior or External Crucial Ligament (fig. 141), smaller than the posterioi’, is attached to the inner side of the depression in front of the spine of the tibia. 141.—Right Knee-Joint. Showing Internal Ligaments.