139 INTERNAL AND MIDDLE CUNEIFORM. between the scaphoid behind, the three innermost metatarsal bones in front, and the cuboid externally. They are called the first, second, and third, counting from the inner to the outer side of the foot, and, from their position, internal, middle, and external. The Internal Cuneiform. The Internal Cuneiform is tho largest of the three. It is situated at the inner side of the foot, between the scaphoid behind and the base of the first metatarsal in front. It may be distinguished from the other two by its large size, and its more irregular wedge-like form. Without the others, it may be known by the large kidney-shaped anterior articulating surface, and by the prominence on the non-articular surface (or base of the wedge), for the attachment of a large tendon. It presents for examination six surfaces. The internal surface is subcutaneous, and forms part of the inner border of the foot; it is broad, quadrilateral, and presents at its anterior inferior angle a smooth oval facet, oyer which the tendon of the Tibialis anticus muscle glides ; in the rest of its extent it is rough, for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface is concave, presenting, along its superior and posterior borders, a narrow surface for articulation with the middle cuneiform behind, and second metatarsal bone in front: in the rest of its extent, it is rough for the attachment of ligaments, and prominent below, where it forms part of the tuberosity. The anterior surface, kidney-shaped, articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The posterior surface is triangular, concave, and articulates with the innermost and largest of the three facets on the anterior surface of the scaphoid. The inferior or plantar surface is rough, and presents a prominent tuberosity at its back part for the attachment of part of the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. It also gives attachment in front to part of the tendon of the Tibialis anticus. The superior surface is the narrow pointed end of the wedge, which is directed upwards and outwards ; it is rough for the attachment of ligaments. To ascertain to which side it belongs, hold the bone so that its superior narrow edge looks upwards, and the long articular surface forwards; the external surface, marked by its vertical and horizontal articular facets, will point to the side to which it belongs. Articulations. With four bones : scaphoid, middle cuneiform, first and second metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles. The Tibialis anticus and posticus. The Middle Cuneiform. The Middle Cuneiform, the smallest of the three, is of very regular wedge- like form, the broad extremity being placed upwards, the narrow end downwards. It is situated between the other two bones of the same name, and corresponds to the scaphoid behind, and the second metatarsal in front. It may be distinguished from the external cuneiform bone, which it much resembles in general appearance, by the articular facet, of angular form, which runs round the upper and back part of its inner surface. The anterior surface, triangular in form, and narrower than the posterior, articulates with the base of the second metatarsal bone. The 'posterior surface, also triangular, articulates with the scaphoid. The internal surface presents an articular facet, running along the superior and posterior borders, for articulation with the internal cuneiform, and is rough below for the attachment of ligaments. I he external surface presents posteriorly a smooth facet for articulation with tho external cuneiform bone. The superior surface forms tho base of the wedge; it is quadrilateral, broader behind than in front, and rough for the attachment ol ligaments. The inferior surface, pointed and tubercular, is also rough for liga- mentous attachment. lo ascertain to which foot tho bone belongs, hold its superior or dorsal surface