ANKLE-JOINT. I95 leep. Tho superficial layer is a strong/ flat, triangular band, attached, above, o the apex and anterior and posterior borders of the inner malleolus. The most ,nterior fibres pass forwards to bo inserted into the scaphoid ; the middle descend Jmost perpendicularly to be inserted into the os calcis ; and the posterior fibres •ass backwards and outwards to be attached to the inner side of the astragalus, .’’lie deeper layer consists of a short, thick, and strong fasciculus, which passes 14/5.—Ankle-Joint: Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations, Internal View. Right Side. ■ rom the apex of the malleolus to the inner surface of the astragalus, below the r rticular surface. This ligament is covered by the tendons of the Tibialis posticus . .nd Flexor longus digitorum muscles. The External Lateral Ligament (fig. 144) consists of three fasciculi, taking ifferent directions, and separated by distinct intervals ; for which reason it is i escribed by some anatomists as three distinct ligaments.* This would seem the referable description, were it not that the old nomenclature has passed into 1 eneral use. The anterior fasciculus, the shortest of the three, passes from the anterior margin f the summit of the external malleolus, downwards and forwards, to the astragalus, 1 front of its external articular facet. The posterior fasciculus, the most deeply seated, passes from the depression at fie inner and back part of the external malleolus to the astragalus, behind its ex- ' jrnal malleolar facet. Its fibres are almost horizontal in direction. The middle fasciculus, the longest of the three, is a narrow rounded cord, passing ■ ’om the apex of the external malleolus downwards and slightly backwards to the i fiddle of the outer side of the os calcis. It is covered by tho tendons of the ’eroneus longus and brevis. There is no posterior ligament, its place being supplied by tho transverso liga- 1 lent of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation. The Synovial Membrane invests the inner surface of the ligaments, and sends duplicate upwards between the lower extremities of tho tibia and fibula for a hort distance. * TTuMnruY, on The Skeleton, p. 559.