141 PHALANGES. Peculiar characters. The First is remarkable for its great size, but is the shortest of all the metatarsal bones. The shaft is strong, and of well-marked prismoid form. The posterior extremity presents no lateral articular facets ; its terminal articular surface is of large size, of semilunar form, and its circumference grooved for the tarso-metatarsal ligaments; its inferior angle presents a rough oval pro- minence for the insertion of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The head is of large size; on its plantar surface are two grooved facets, over which glide sesamoid bones; the facets are separated by a smooth elevated ridge. The Second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones, being prolonged backwards into the recess formed between the three cuneiform bones. Its tarsal extremity is broad above, narrow and rough below. It presents four articular surfaces : one behind, of a triangular form, for articulation with the middle cuneiform ; one at the upper part of its internal lateral surface, for articula- tion with the internal cuneiform; and two on its external lateral surface, a superior and an inferior, separated by a rough depression. Each of the latter articular surfaces is divided by a vertical ridge into two parts ; the anterior segment of each facet articulates with the third metatarsal; the two posterior (sometimes continuous) with the external cuneiform. The Third articulates behind, by means of a triangular smooth surface, with the external cuneiform ; on its inner side, by two facets, with the second metatarsal; and on its outer side, by a single facet, with the third metatarsal. The latter facet is of circular form, and situated at the upper angle of the base. The Fourth is smaller in size than the preceding; its tarsal extremity presents a terminal quadrilateral surface, for articulation with the cuboid ; a smooth facet on the inner side, divided by a ridge into an anterior portion for articulation with the third metatarsal, and a posterior portion for articulation with the external cunei- form ; on the outer side a single facet, for articulation with the fifth metatarsal. The Fifth is recognised by the tubercular eminence on the outer side of its base. It articulates behind, by a triangular surface cut obliquely from without inwards, with the cuboid: and internally, with the fourth metatarsal. Articulations. Each bone articulates with the tarsal bones by one extremity, and by the other with the first row of phalanges. The number of tarsal bones with which each metatarsal articulates, is one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth. Attachment of Muscles. To the first metatarsal bone, three : part of the Tibialis anticus, the Peroneus longus, and First dorsal interosseous. To the second, three: the Adductor pollicis, and First and Second dorsal interosseous. To the third, four: the Adductor pollicis, Second and Third dorsal, and First plantar interosseous. To the fourth, four: the Adductor pollicis, Third and Fourth dorsal, and Second plantar interosseous. To the fifth, five: the Peroneus brevis, Peroneus tertius, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Fourth dorsal, and Third plantar interosseous. Phalanges. The Phalanges of the foot, both in number and general arrangement, resemble those in the hand; there being two in the great toe, and three in each of the other toes. The phalanges of the first row resemble closely those of the hand. The shaft is compressed from side to side, convex above, concave below. The posterior extremity is concave ; and the anterior extremity presents a trochlear surface, for articulation with the second phalanges. The phalanges of the second row are remarkably small and short, but rather broader than those of the first row. The ungual phalanges, in form, resemble those of the fingers; but they are smaller, flattened from above downwards, presenting a broad base for articulation with the second row, and an expanded extremity for the support of the nail and end of the toe. Articulation. The first row, with the motatarsal bones, and second phalanges ;