317 194 -Muscles of the Sole of the Foot. First Layer. CF the sole of the foot, first layer. , . .v, „;n, the innermost tendon of the Flexor brevis polliois, into the "de oCUe of the first phalanx of the great toe. It - ™pphed by the nternul plantar nerve. Kurface with the plantar fascia. By its deep Relatione. By its •<*&»* ‘' f \ZL, with the Flexor brevis polli- cis the Flexor accessorius, and the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum and Flexor longus pollicis, the Tibialis anticus and posticus, the plantar vessels and nerves, and the articulations of the tarsus. , . . The Flexor Brevis Digitorum (per- forates) lies in the middle of the solo of the foot, immediately beneath the plantar fascia, with which it is firmly united. It arises by a narrow tendi- nous process, from the inner tubercle of the os calcis, from the central part of the plantar fascia; and from the in- termuscular septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It passes forwards, and divides- into four tendons. Oppo- site the middle of the first phalanges, each tendon presents a longitudinal slit, to allow of the passage of the cor- responding tendon of the Flexor longus digitorum; the two portions form a groove for the reception of that tendon. The tendon of the short Flexor then re- unites and immediately divides a second time into two processes, which are inserted into the sides of the second phalanges. The mode of division ot the tendons of the Flexor brevis digitorum, and their insertion into the phalanges, is analogous to the Flexor sublimis in the hand. It is supplied by the internal plantar nerve. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface, with the Flexor accessorius, the Lumbricalcs, the tendons of the Flexor longus digitorum, and the ex- ternal plantar vessels and nerve, from which it is separated by a thin layer of fascia. The outer and inner borders are separated from the adjacent muscles means of vertical prolongations of the plantar fasc arises, Tbo AMtokn- Minimi Digitizes from the under * very broad origin, from the outer tu ty ^ ^ fas0;a> aud the rface of the os calcis m front of ‘he tube d> jtoram. It9 tendon, tcrmuscular septum between it and the . “nrface „f the base 0f the fifth ter gliding over a smooth facet on the n t(J0 ;nto ti,e outer etotorsal bone, is inserted with the short Flexor u ^ U(id by tho de of the base of the first phalanx ol the li eternal plantar nerve. * Iu the erect position, this would, of course, he a oie.