SCIATIC. 403 230. The Arteries of the Gluteal and Posterior runs inwards, pierces tho •rtfr&ijb nxw>y Within the pelvis it distributes branches to tho Pyriformis, Coccygeus, and Levator ani muscles; some lnemorrhoidal branches, which supply the rectum, and occasionally take the place of the middle hmmorrhoidal artery; and vesical branches to the base and neck of the bladder, vesiculee seminaleS, and prostate gland. External to the pelvis, it gives off the coCcygeal, inferior gluteal, comes nervi ischiadici, muscular, and articular branches. Femora) Regions. I'rr-tn/Mafi nm luisrnat CircutfUao The coccygeal branch great sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and supplies tho Gluteus maximus, the in- tegument, and other struc- tures on the back of tho coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number, supply tho GluteUs maximus muscle. The comes nervi ischia- dici is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the great sciatic nerve for a short distance; it then penetrates it, and runs in its substance to the lower part of the thigh. The Viuscular branches supply the muscles on the back part of the hip, anas- tomosing with the gluteal, internal and external cir- cumflex, and superior per- forating arteries. Some articular branches are distributed to the cap- sule of the hip-joint. The Gluteal Artery is the largest branch of the internal iliac, and appears to be the continuation of the posterior division of that vessel. It is a short, thick trunk, which passes out of the pelvis above the upper border of the Pyri- formis muscle, and imme- diately divides into a su- perficial and deep branch. Within the pelvis, it gives off a few muscular branches to tho Iliacus, Pyriformis, and Obturator internus, and just previous to quitting that cavity a nutiient artery, which enters the ilium. The superficial branch passes beneath tho Gluteus maximus, and divides into numerous branches, some of which supply that muscle, whilst others pci- toratu its tendinous origin, and supply tho integument covering the posterior n n 2 MictMe Terfersxttnp Inferior Pc tfe rWffay Termination^ cf PKOTUNOA ‘ Super lInternal AtiicuJanf j Super far Aluscular L Superior External Articular Inferior Muscular