MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. 316 (1 °“™rs tho “Oder surface of the Abductor minimi dmifi- it • i t "ok belnnd, thin m front, and extends from tho os oalois forwards to Ih V ' J he fifth metatarsal bone, into the outer side of which t i at aelmd ft °f The mner portion is very thin, and covers tho Abductor pollieis muscle • it is attached behind to the internal annular ligament, and is continuous around the side phrntarlscTa &SCia’ “d eXtei'nal'y With the “iddle P-rtfcm of tho Muscles of the Foot. surflT ar° f°Und “ tW° regi°n8: '• 0a th0 dorsumi *• 0“ ‘he plantar i. Dorsal Region. Extensor Brevis Digitonim. The Fascia on the dorsum of the foot is a thin membranous layer continuous above with the anterior margin of the annular ligament; it becomes^raduallv lost opposite the heads of the metatarsal bones, and on each side blends wfth the lateral poitions of the plantar fascia; it forms a sheath for the tendons placed on the dorsum of the foot. On the removal of this fascia, the muscles and tendons of the dorsal region of the foot are exposed. ^\ExtB™0r .^evis Digitorum (fig. 191) is a broad thin muscle, which arises fiom the outer side of the os calcis, m front of the groove for the Peroneus brevis • f°m the calcaneo-astragaloid ligament; and from the horizontal portion of the an- terior annular hgament. It passes obliquely across the dorsum of the foot, and termi- nates m four tendons. The innermost, which is the largest, is inserted into the first phalanx of the great toe, crossing the Dorsalis pedis artery; the other three into the outer sides of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toes’ Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia of the foot, the tendons of the Extensor longus digitorum, the Extensor proprius pollieis. By its deep surface with the tarsal and metatarsal bones, and the Dorsal interossei muscles. J ’ Nerves. It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. Actions. The Extensor brevis digitorum is an accessory to the loner Extensor extending the phalanges of the four inner toes, but acting only on the fi°rst nhalanx of the great toe. The obliquity of its direction counteracts the oblique movement given to the toes by the long Extensor, so that, both muscles acting together the toes are evenly extended. 2. Plantar Region. The muscles in the plantar region of the foot may be divided into three groups m a similar manner to those in the hand. Those of the internal planta/region are connected with the great toe, and correspond with those of the thumb; those of the external plantar region, are connected with the little toe, and correspond with those of the little finger; and those of the middle plantar region, are con- nected with the tendons intervening between the two former groups.° But in order to facilitate the dissection of these muscles, it will be found more convenient to divide them into four layers, as they present themselves, in the order in which they are successively exposed. First Layer. Abductor Pollieis. Flexor Brevis Digitorum. Abductor Minimi Digiti. Dissection. Remove the fascia on the inner and outer sides of the foot, commencing in front over the tendons, and proceeding backwards. The central portion should be divided transversely in the middle of the foot, and the two flaps dissected forwards and backwards The Abductor Pollieis lies along the inner border of the foot. It arises from the inner tuberosity on the under surface of the os calcis; from the external annular ligament; from the plantar fascia; and from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor brevis digitorum. Tho fibres terminate in a tondon, which is