ARTE.HIES. 366 passes iuwards upon the side of the ensiform appendix, anastomoses in front of that cartilage with the artery of the opposite side. The Superior Intercostal (fig. 212) arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery, behind the anterior scalenus on the right side, and to the inner side of the muscle on the left side. Passing backwards, it gives off the deep cervical branch, and then descends behind the pleura in front of the necks of the first two ribs, and inosculates with the first aortic intercostal. In the first inter- costal space, it gives off a branch which is distributed in a manner similar to the distribution of the aortic intercostals. The branch for the second intercostal space usually joins with one from the first aortic intercostal. Each intercostal gives oil' a branch to the posterior spinal muscles, and a small one, which passes through the corresponding intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. The deep cervical branch (profunda cervicis) arises, in most cases, from the superior intercostal, and is analogous to the posterior branch of an aortic intercostal artery. Passing backwards,, between the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra and the first rib, it runs up the back part of the neck, between the Com- plexus and Semispinalis colli muscles, as high as the axis, supplying these and adjacent muscles, and anastomosing with the arteria princeps cervicis of the occipital, and with branches which pass outwards from the vertebral. Surgical Anatomy of the Axilla. The Axilla is a pyramidal space, situated between the upper and lateral part of the chest, and the inner side of the arm. Boundaries. Its apex, which is directed upwards towards the root of the neck, corresponds to the interval between the two scaleni on the first rib. The base, directed downwards, is formed by the integument, and a thick layer of fascia, extending between the lower border of the Pectoralis major in front, and the lower border of the Latissimus dorsi behind ; it is broad internally, at the chest, but narrow and pointed externally, at the arm. The anterior boundary is formed by the Pectoralis major and minor muscles, the former covering the whole of the anterior wall of the axilla, the latter covering only its central part. The posterior boundary, which extends somewhat lower than the anterior, is formed by the Sub- scapularis above, the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi below. On the inner side, are the first four ribs with their corresponding Intercostal muscles, and part of the Serratus magnus. On the outer side, where the anterior and posterior boundaries converge, the space is narrow, and bounded by the humerus, the Coraco-brachialis and Bicep3 muscles. Contents. This space contains the axillary Vessels, and brachial plexus of nerves, with their branches, some branches of the intercostal nerves, and a large number of lymphatic glands, all connected together by a quantity of fat and loose areolar tissue. Their Position. The axillary artery and vein, with the brachial plexus of nerves, extend obliquely along the outer boundary of the axillary space, from its apex to its base, and are placed much nearer the anterior than the posterior wall, the vein lying to the inner or thoracic side of the artery, and altogether concealing it. At the fore part of the axillary space, in contact with the Pectoral muscles, are the thoracic branches of the axillary artery, and along the anterior margin ot the axilla the long thoracic artery extends to the side of the chest. At the back part, in contact with the lower margin of the Subscapularis muscle, are the subscapular vessels and nerves; winding around the lower bordef of this muscle, is the dor- salis scapulae artery and veins; and towards the outer extremity of the muscle, the posterior circumflex vessels and the circumflex nerve are seen curving back- wards to the shoulder. Along the inner or thoracic side no vessel of any importance exists, the upper part of the space bein^ crossed merely by a few small branches fiom the superior thoracic artery. There are some important nerves, however, in this situation,