303 GLUTEAL REGION. b the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the front of the sacrum by three eshy elicitations, attached to the portions of bone between the first, second, third, oSTfourtli anterior sacral foramina, and also from the grooves leading from the aramina: a few fibres also arise from the margin of the groat sacro-sciatic >raiuen, and from tho anterior surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament. The mscle passes out of tho pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, the upper art of which it fills, and is inserted by a rounded tendon into the upper border f the great trochanter, being generally blended with the tendon of the Obturator Iternus. Relations. By its anterior surface, within the pelvis, with the Rectum (especially n the left side), the sacral plexus of nerves, and the internal iliac vessels ; external 1 the pelvis, with the os innominatum and capsular ligament of the hip-joint. By s posterior surface, within the pelvis, with the sacrum ; and external to it, with the duteus maximus. By its tipper border, with the Gluteus medius, from which it is sparated by the gluteal vessels and superior gluteal nerve. By its loioer border, ,’ith the Gemellus superior and Coccygeus ; the sciatic vessels and nerves, the iternal pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the Obturator internus, passing •om the pelvis in the interval between the two muscles. Dissection. The next muscle, as well as the origin of the Pyriformis, can only be seen when ie pelvis is divided, and the viscera removed. The Obturator membrane is a dense layer of interlacing fibres, which completely Moses the obturator foramen, except at its upper and outer part, where a small val canal is left for the obturator vessels and nerve. Each obturator muscle is 1 onnected with this membrane. The Obturator Internus. like the preceding muscle, is situated partly within i he cavity of the pelvis, partly at the back of the hip-joint. It arises from the uner surface of the anterior and external wall of the pelvis, around the inner side : f the obturator foramen, being attached to the descending ramus of the pubes, r,nd the ascending ramus of the ischium, and at the side to the inner surface of he body of the ischium, between the margin of the obturator foramen in front, he great sacro-sciatic notch behind, and the brim of the true pelvis above. It iso arises from the inner surface of the obturator membrane and from the ten- linous arch which completes the carnaL for the passage of the obturator vessels and ierve. The fibres are directed backwards and downwards, and terminate in four ■>r five tendinous bands, which are found on its deep surface ; these bands are •eflected at a right angle over the inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, ivhich is grooved for their reception: the groove is covered with cartilage, and ined with a synovial bursa. The muscle leaves the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic lotch ; and the tendinous bands unite into a single flattened tendon, which passes • horizontally outwards, and, after receiving the attachment of the Gemelli, is in- < jerted into the upper border of the great trochanter in front of the Pyriformis. A lynovial bursa, narrow and elongated in form, is usually found between the tendon this muscle and the capsular ligament of the hip : it occasionally communicates ' with that between the tendon and the tuberosity of the ischium, the two forming i single sac. In order to display the peculiar appearances presented by the tendon of this muscle, it : must be divided near its insertion and reflected outwards. Relations. Within the pelvis, this muscle is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the obturator membrane and inner surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis ; by its posterior surface, with the pelvic and obturator fascias, which separate it from the Levator ani ; and it is crossed by the internal pudic vessels and nerve. This surface forms the outer boundary of the ischio-rectal fossa. External to the pelvis, it is covered by the great sciatic nerve and Gluteus maximus, and rests on the back part of the hip-joint. The Gcmclli are two small muscular fasciculi, accessories to the tendon of the