59§ ORGANS OF SENSE. attached to the cupola at the upper part of the helieotrema, the lower end fits into the angle at the commencement of the osseous lamina on the floor of the vestibule. Near this blind extremity the scala media receivos the canalis reuniens (fig. 318), a very delicate canal, by which the ductus cochlearis is brought into continuity with the saccule. The inner surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by an exceedingly thin fibro-serous membrane, analogous to a periosteum, from its close adhesion to the inner surface of these cavities, and performing the office of a serous membrane by its free surface. It lines the vestibule, and from this cavity is continued into the semicircular canals and the scala vestibuli of the cochlea, and through the heli- cotrema into the scala tympani. Two delicate tubular processes are prolonged along the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea, to the inner surface of the dura mater. This membrane is continued across the fenestra ovalis and rotunda, and consequently has no communication with the lining membrane of the tympanum. Its attached surface is rough and fibrous, and closely adherent to the bone ; its free surface is smooth and pale, covered with a layer of epithelium, and secretes a thin, limpid fluid, the aqua labyrinthi (perilymph [Blainville], liquor Cotunnii). The Membranous Labyrinth. The membranous labyrinth (fig. 318) is a closed membranous sac, containing fluid. The ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed upon the wall of the sac. It has the same general form as the vestibule and semicircular canals in which it is enclosed; but is considerably smaller, and separated from their lining membrane by the perilymph. The vestibular portion consists of two sacs, the utricle and the saccule. The utricle is the larger of the two, of an oblong form, compressed laterally, and occupies the upper and back part of the vestibule, lying in contact with the fovea semi-el liptica. Numerous filaments of the auditory nerve are distributed on the 318.—The Membranous Labyrinth. (Enlarged 4 diams.) Wall of this sac ; and its cavity communicates behind with the membranous semi- circular canals by five orifices. The saccule is the smaller of the two vestibular sacs : it is globular in form, lies in the fovea hemispherica, near the opening of the vestibular scala of the cochlea, and receives numerous nervous filaments, which enter from the bottom of the depression in which it is contained. Its cavity is apparently distinct from that of the utricle. The membranous semicircular canals are about one-third the diameter of the osseous canals but in number, shape, and general form they are precisely similar;