CRANIAL NERVES. 5°6 oval opening in the dura mater, at the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal hone: here the fibres of the larger root enter a large semilunar ganglion (Cjas. Serian), while the smaller root passes beneath the ganglion without having any connection with it, and joins outside the cranium with one of the trunks derived from it. The C|asseeian, or Semilunar Ganglion, is lodged in a depression near the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It is of a somewhat crescentic form, with its convexity turned forwards. Its upper surface is intimately adherent to the dura mater. Branches. This ganglion receives, on its inner side, filaments from the carotid plexus of the sympathetic; and from it some minute branches are given off to the tentorium cerebelli, and the dura mater, in the middle fossa of the cranium. From its anterior border, which is directed forwards and outwards, three large branches proceed: the ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. The ophthalmic and superior maxillary consist exclusively of fibres derived from the larger root aud ganglion, and are solely nerves of common sensation. The third division, or inferior maxillary, is composed of fibres from both roots. This, there- fore, strictly speaking, is the only portion of the fifth nerve which can be said to resemble a spinal m^ve. S'*?' Ophthalmic Nerve. (Fig. 272.) / - OU The Ophthalmic, or first division of the fifth, is a sensory nerve. It supplies the eyeball, the lachrymal gland, the mucous lining of the eye and nose, and the integument and muscles of the eyebrow and forehead. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the fifth, arising from the upper part of the Casserian gan- glion. It is a short, flattened band, about an inch in length, which passes for- wards along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, below the other nerves, and just before entering the orbit, through the sphenoidal fissure, divides into three branches, lachrymal, frontal, and nasal. The ophthalmic nerve is joined by fila- ments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and gives off recurrent filaments which pass between the layers of the tentorium, with a branch from the fourth nerve. Its branches are, the Lachrymal. Frontal, Nasal. The Lachrymal is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic. Not unfrequently it arises by two filaments, one from the ophthalmic, the other from the fourth, and this Swan considers to be its usual condition. It passes forwards in a separate tube of dura mater, and enters the orbit through the narrowest part of the sphenoidal fissure. In the orbit, it runs along the upper border of the External rectus muscle, with the lachrymal artery, and is connected with the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve. Within the lachrymal gland it gives off several filaments, which supply the gland and the conjunctiva. Finally, it pierces the palpebral ligaments, and terminates in the integument of the upper eye- lid, joining with filaments of the facial nerve. The Brontal is the largest division of the ophthalmic, and may bo regarded, both from its size and direction, as the continuation of this nerve. It enters the orbit above the muscles, through the highest and broadest part of the sphenoidal fissure, and runs forwards along the middle line, between the Levator palpebrce and the periosteum. Midway between the apex and base of the orbit it divides into two branches, supratrochlear, and supraorbital. The supratrochlear branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards, above the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, and gives off a descending filament, which joins with the infratrochlear branch of the nasal nerve. It then escapes from the orbit between the pulley of the Superior oblique and the supraorbital foramen, curves up on to tho forehead close to the bone, and ascends behind the Corrngator Bupercilii, and Occipito-frontalis muscles, to both of which it is distributed; finally, it is lost in the integument of the forehead.