LUMBAR VERTEBRAE. 9 bo distinguished from it by the inferior articular processes being convex and turned outwards, like those of the lumbar vertebras ; by the general form of the body, lamina), and spinous process, approaching to that of the lumbar vertebras; and by the transverse processes being shorter, and the tubercles at their extremities more marked. Characters of the Lumbar Vertebrae. The Lumbar Vertebras (fig. 7) are the largest segments of the vertebral column. The body is large, broader from side to side than from before backwards, about equal in depth in front and behind, flattened or slightly concave above and below, concave behind, and deeply constricted in front and at the sides, presenting promi- 7.—Lumbar Vertebra. nent margins, which afford a broad basis for the support of the superincumbent weight. The pedicles are very strong, directed backwards from the upper part of the bodies ; consequently the inferior intervertebral notches are of large size. Ihe laminre are short, but broad and strong; and the foramen triangular, larger than in the dorsal, smaller than in the cervical region. The superior articular processes are concave, and look almost directly inwards; the inferior, convex, look outwards and a little forwards; the former are separated by a much wider interval than the latter, embracing the lower articulating processes of the vertebra above. The transverse processes are long, slender, directed transversely outwards in the upper three lumbar vertebra), slanting a little upwards in the lower two. By some anatomists they are considered homologous with the ribs. Of the two tubercles noticed in connection with the transverse processes in the dorsal region, the superior ones become connected in this region with the back part of tho superior, articular processes. Although in man they are comparatively small, in some animals they attain considerable size, and serve to lock the vertebra) more closely together. The spinous processes are thick and broad, somewhat quadri- lateral, horizontal in direction, thicker below than above, and terminating by a rough uneven border. 0 J . Th® Fifth Lumbar vertebra is characterised by having the body much thicker m front than behind, which accords with the prominence of the sacro-vertebral articulation, by the smaller size of its spinous process, by the wide interval between the interior articulating processes, and by the greater size and thickness of its trans- verse processes. Mmctwre of the Vertebrai. The structure of a vertebra differs in different parts, ic body is composed of light spongy cancellous tissue, having a thin coating of c P‘ ® issue on its external surface perforated by numerous orifices, some of arge size, for the passage of vessels ; its interior is traversed by one or two large cana s or t ic reception of veins, which converge towards a single large irregular or