SPHENOID BONE. 35 face presenting, in the median line, a slight longitudinal eminence, with a depression on each side, for lodging the olfactory nerves. A narrow transverse groove, the optio groove, hounds the above-mentioned surface behind ; it lodges the optic commissure, and terminates on either side in the optic foramen, for tho passage of the optic nervo and ophthalmic artery. Behind the optic groove is a small eminence, olive-like in shape, the olivary process; and still more posteriorly, a deep depression, the pituitaiy fossa, or ‘sella Turcica,’ which lodges the pituitary body. This fossa is perforated by numerous foramina, for tho transmission of 34.—Sphenoid Bone. Superior Surface. >1 factory w Artie Greater 'vj Cerebral S'/. Oliva-. {roces. Him#"* lSupyooi*t^ A ?;Varo Liigii, ■iixrve Middle/ Clinoid process ~ , . s/,. ■ j \ Mjinwidul Spire 0ustenc-r C uncut ^process \ ■ * Foramen Optica Fora-vum Xace.ru.in Mien U4. pr Spiuiwi/talXt^eiLre Foramen jRctu.nJu.ia n Vesalii, „ Ouale 1, Spinosavu nutrient vessels to the substance of the bone. It is bounded in front by two small eminences, one on either side, called the middle clinoid processes ((cXAr/, a bed), and behind by a square-shaped plate of bone, terminating at each superior angle in a tubercle, the posterior clinoid processes, the size and form of which vary considerably in different individuals. These processes deepen the pituitary fossa ; and serve for the attachment of prolongations from the tentorium cerebelli. The sides of the plate of bone supporting the posterior clinoid processes are notched for the passage of the sixth pair of nerves ; and behind, this plate of bone pre- sents a shallow depression, which slopes obliquely backwards, and is continuous with tho basilar groove of the occipital bone; it supports the Pons Varolii. On either side of the body is a broad groove, curved something like the italic letter/; it lodges the internal carotid artery and the cavernous sinus, and is called the cavernous groove. The posterior surface, quadrilateral in form, articulates with the basilar process of the occipital bone. During childhood these bones are separated by a layer of cartilage; but in after-life (between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years) this becomes ossified, ossification commencing above, and extending downward: and the two bones then form one piece. The anterior surface (fig- 35) presents, in tho middle line, a vertical lamella of bone which articulates in front with the perpendicular plate of tho ethmoid, forming part of tho septum of the nose. On either side of it aro tho irregular openings leading into the sphenoid cells or sinuses. These aro two large irregular cavities, hollowed out of the interior of tho body of the sphenoid bone, and separated from one another by a more or less complete perpendicular bony septum. Their form and sizo vary considerably ; they aro seldom symmetrical, and arc often partially subdivided by