CORPUS CALLOSUM. 481 | and a half of the posterior, part of the brain. It is somewhat broader behind than in front, and is thicker at either end than in its central part, being thickest I behind. It presents a somewhat arched form, from before backwards, terminating [anteriorly in a rounded border, which curves downwards and backwards, between if the anterior lobes to the base of the brain. In its course, it forms a distinct bend, | named the knee, or genu, and the reflected portion, named the beak (rostrum), •1 becoming gradually narrower, is attached to the anterior cerebral lobe, and is . i connected through the lamiaa cinerea with the optic commissure. The reflected i portion of the corpus callosum gives off, near its termination, two bundles of white substance, which, diverging from one another, pass backwards, across the anterior perforated space, to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius. They are called the i peduncles of the corpus callosum. Posteriorly, the corpus callosum forms a thick, rounded fold, which is free for a little distance, as it curves forwards, and is then ' continuous with the fornix. On its upper surface, its fibrous structure is very ( apparent to the naked eye, being collected into coarse, transverse bundles. Along the middle line is a linear depression, the raphe, bounded laterally by two or more slightly elevated longitudinal bands, called the striae longitudinales, or nerves of Lancisi-, and, still more externally, other longitudinal stria) are seen, beneath the convolutions which rest on the corpus callosum. These arc the strim longitudinales laterales. The under surface of the corpus callosum is continuous behind with the I fornix, being separated from it in front by the septum lucidum, which forms a vertical partition between the two ventricles. On either side, the fibres of the corpus callosum penetrate into tlio substance of the hemispheres, and connect together the anterior, middle, and part of the posterior lobes. It is the large 1 I