475 CEREBRUM. The two halves of the pons, in front, are connected together by transverse com- missural fibres. Cerebrum. Upper Surface. (Fig. 261.) The cerebrum, in man, constitutes the largest portion of the encephalon. Its upper surface is of an ovoidal form, broader behind than m front, convex in its general outline, and divided into two lateral halves or hemispheres, right and left by the great longitudinal fissure, which extends throughout the entire length of the cerebrum in the middle line, reaching down to the base of the brain in front and behind, but interrupted in the middle by a broad transverse commissure of white matter, the corpus callosum, which connects the two hemispheres together. This fissure lodges the falx cerebri, and indicates the original development of the brain by two lateral halves. Each hemisphere presents an outer surface, which is convex, to correspond with the vault of the cranium ; an inner surface, flattened, and in contact with the opposite hemisphere (the two inner surfaces forming the sides of the longitudinal fissure) ; and an under surface or base, of more irregular form, which rests, in front, on the anterior and middle fossas at the base of the skull, and behind, upon the tentorium. Convolutions. If the pia mater is removed with the forceps, the entire surface of each hemisphere will be seen to present a number of convoluted eminences, the convolutions, separated from each other by depressions (sulci) of various depths. The outer surface of each convolution, as well as the sides and bottom of the sulci between them, are composed of grey matter, which is here called the cortical substance. The interior of each convolution is composed of white matter ; and white fibres also blend with the grey matter at the sides and bottom of the sulci. By this arrangement the convolutions are adapted to increase the amount of grey matter without occupying much additional space, while they also afford a greater extent of surface for the termination of the white fibres in grey matter. On closer examination, however, the cortical substance is found subdivided into four layers, two of which are composed of grey and two of white matter. The most external is an outer white stratum, not equally thick over all parts of the brain, being most marked on the convolutions in the longitudinal fissure and on the under part of the brain, especially on the middle lobe, near the descending horn of the lateral ventricle. Beneath this is a thick reddish-grey lamina, and then another thin white stratum ; lastly, a thin stratum of grey matter, which lies in close contact with the white fibres of the hemispheres : consequently white and grey laminfe alternate with one another in the convolutions. In certain convolutions, however, the cortical substance consists of no less than six layers, three grey and three white, an additional white stratum dividing the most superficial grey one into two ; this is especially marked in those convolutions which are situated near the corpus callosum. There is no accurate resemblance between, the convolutions in different brains, nor are they symmetrical on the two sides of the same brain. Occasionally the free borders or the sides of a deep convolution present a fissured or notched appearance. I he sulci are generally an inch in depth; they also vary in different brains, and in different parts of the same brain ; they are usually deepest on the outer convex surface of the hemispheres ; the deepest is situated on the inner surface of the hemisphere, on a level with the corpus callosum, and corresponds to the projection in the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle, the hippocampus minor. The number and extent of the convolutions, as well as their depth, appear to bear a close relation to the intellectual power of the individual, as is shown in t loir increasing complexity of arrangement as we ascend from the lowest mam- ma 1a up to man. Thus they are absent in some of the lower orders of mammalia, an t ic} increase in number and extent through the higher orders. In man they present the most complex arrangement. Again, in the child at birth before the