arteries. 33° T0rllleTi*?portion; mtbe dUt““ f»m the innominate artery;^ o^TmoreZiolvi” the carotida* d° Tl! -11” ’0ft carotid from arising from a left inlominite^S? yk$‘ZZ™. 8ub"1“v.‘““ •«**• of the left A? right carotid and subclavian aZS J » ZSvLm ^ four< f™” u'« absent. In moat of these latter <1 •eVxire^t'y .om,tbe aorta’ the innominate being left end of the arch • in nth l! ’'^ ng, SubclaVftn bas been found to arise from the the first tatam„ n^T«8;nil,rfmnh8(rC0"dK0r tM,rd !”Mch °* i-ate^ „f these instances, the external and in?™,! T A, may be increased to five or six; in common carotid being absent on one ol b“h sTdes ar°Se BeparateIJ' from the “ch, the generally arising from the left end of the arch1 } 1 h’ tlie riobfc subclavian right internal mammary, or left vertebral, or, more rarely, both vertebral. be The Coronary Arteries. The coronary arteries supply the heart; they are two in number, rio-ht and left ileTe^ °f ^ a°rta immediate1^ ab0Ve margin of The Right Coronary Artery, about the size of a crow’s quill, arises from the aorta immediately above the free margin of the right semilunar valve between the pul monary artery and the appendix of the right auricle. It passes forwards to the right side, m the groove between the right auricle and ventricle, and curving around the right border of the heart, runs along its posterior surface as far as the posterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches, one of which continues onwards in the groove between the left auricle and ventricle and anastomoses with the left coronary; the other descends along the posterior inter- ventricular furrow, supplying branches to both ventricles and to the septum and anastomosing at the apex of the heart with the descending branch of the left coronary. ° This vessel sends a large branch along the thin margin of the right ventricle to the apex, and numerous small branches to the right auricle and ventricle and the commencement of the pulmonary artery. The Left Coronary, smaller than the former, arises immediately above the free edge of the left semilunar valve, a little higher than the right; it passes forwards between the pulmonary artery and the left appendix auricula!, and descends obliquely towards the anterior interventricular groove, where it divides into two branches. Of these, one passes transversely outwards in the left auriculo-ventri- cular groove, and winds around the left border of the heart to its posterior surface where it anastomoses with the superior branch of the right coronary; the other descends along the anterior interventricular groove to the apex of the heart where it anastomoses with the descending branch of the right coronary. The left coronary supplies the left auricle and its appendix, both ventricles, and numerous small branches to the pulmonary artery, and commencement of the aorta. . These vessels occasionally arise by a common trunk, or their number mnv be aTdTtSnal brl^bU.^ addltlonal bmncb bein° of 8,11 a11 size- More rarely, there are two Arteiha Innominata. The innominate artery is the largest branch given off from the arch of the aorta. It arises from the commencement of the transverse portion in front of the left carotid, and, ascending obliquely to the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular