THE SKELETON. 98 two largo curved processes, the Olecranon process and the Coronoid process ; and two concave articular cavities, the greater and lesser Sigmoid cavities. The Olecranon Process (wXt'rrj, elbow; Kpavov, head) is a large thick curved eminence, situated at the upper and hack part of the ulna. It rises somewhat higher than the coronoid, and is curved forwards at the summit so as to present a prominent tip, its base being contracted where it joins the shaft. This is the narrowest part of the upper end of the ulna, and, consequently, the most usual seat of fracture. The posterior surface of the olecranon, directed backwards, is ot a triangular form, smooth, subcutaneous, and covered by a bursa. Its upper surface, directed upwards, is of a quadrilateral form, marked behind by a rough impression for the attachment of the Triceps muscle ; and in front, near the margin, by a slight transverse groove for the attachment of part of the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint. Its anterior surface is smooth, concave, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and forms the upper and back part of the great sigmoid cavity. The lateral borders present a continuation of the same groove that was seen on the margin of the superior surface ; they serve for the attachment of ligaments, viz., the back part of the internal lateral ligament internally, the posterior ligament externally. The Olecranon process, in its structure as well as in its position and use, resembles the Patella in the lower limb ; and, like it, some- times exists as a separate piece, not united to the rest of the bone.* The Coronoid Process (Koputrr], a crow's beak) is a rough triangular eminence of bone which projects horizontally forward from the upper and front part of the ulna, forming the lower part of the great sigmoid cavity. Its base is continuous with the shaft, and of considerable strength, so much so that fracture of it is an accident of rare occurrence. Its apex is pointed, slightly curved upwards, and received into the coronoid depression of the humerus in flexion of the forearm. Its upper surface is smooth, concave, and forms the lower part of the great sigmoid cavity. The under surface is concave, and marked internally by a rough impres- sion for the insertion of the Brachialis anticus. At the junction of this surface with the shaft is a rough eminence, the tubercle of the ulna, for the attachment of the oblique ligament. Its outer surface presents a narrow, oblong, articular de- pression, the lesser sigmoid cavity. The inner surface, by its prominent free margin, serves for the attachment of part of the internal lateral ligament. At the front part of this surface is a small rounded eminence for the attachment of one head of the Flexor digitorum sublimis, behind the eminence, a depression for part of the origin of the Flexor profundus digitorum, and, descending from the emi- nence, a ridge, which gives attachment to one head of the Pronator radii teres. Occasionally, the Flexor longus pollicis arises from the lower part of the Coronoid process by a rounded bundle of muscular fibres. The Greater Sigmoid Cavity, so called from its resemblance to the old shape of the Greek letter 2, is a semilunar depression of large size, formed by the olecranon and coronoid processes, and serving for articulation with the trochlear surface of the humerus. About the middle of either lateral border of this cavity is a notch, which contracts it somewhat, and serves to indicate the junction of the two pro- cesses of which it is formed. The cavity is concave from above downwards, and divided into two lateral parts by a smooth elevated ridge, which runs from tho summit of the olecranon to the tip of the coronoid process. Of these two portions, the internal is the larger; it is slightly concave transversely, the external portion being nearly plane from side to side. The Lesser Sigmoid Cavity is a narrow, oblong, articular depression, placed on the outer side of the coronoid process, and serving for articulation with the head of the radius. It is concave from before backwards; and its extremities, which are prominent, serve for the attachment of the orbicular ligament. The Shaft is prismatic in form at its upper part, and curved from behind * Professor Owen regards the olecranon as homologous not with the patella, but with an extension of the upper end of the fibula above the'knee-joint, which is met with in the Ornithorynchus, Echidna, and some other animals. (Owen, ‘ On the Nature of Limbs.') V