33i INNOMINATE. into the right carotid and subclavian arteries. This vessel Sternum. Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-tbyroid muscles. Remains of thymus gland. _ . Left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins. Inferior cervical cardiac branch from right pneumogastnc nerve. directly from the arch ot the aorta. . A , +1 Position. When the aorta arches over to the right side, the innominate is directed to the left side of the neck instead of the right. ,. , , Collateral circulation. Allan Burns demonstrated, on the dead subject, the possibility ot the establishment of the collateral circulation after ligature of the innominate artery, by tvinrr and dividing that artery, after which, he says, “Even coarse injection impelled into the aorta passed freely by the anatomosing branches into the arteries of the right arm, tilling them’ and all the vessels of the head completely.” (<Surgical Anatomy of the Mead and Neck, p. 62.) The branches by which this circulation would be carried on are very numerous; thus7all the communication across the middle line between the branches, of the carotid arteries of opposite sides would be available for the supply of blood to the right side of the head and neck; while the anastomosis between the superior intercostal of the subclavian and the first aortic intercostal (see infra on the collateral circulation after obliteration of the thoracic aorta), would bring the blood, by a free and direct course, into.the right subclavian: the numerous connections, also, between the lower intercostal arteries, and the branches of the axillary and internal mammary arteries would, doubtless, assist in the supply of blood to the right arm, while the epigastric, from the external iliac, would by means of its anasto- mosis with the internal mammary, compensate for any deficiency in the vascularity of the wall of the chest. Surgical Anatomy. Although the operation of tying the innominate artery has been per- formed by several surgeons, for aneurism of the right subclavian extending inwards as far as the Scalenus, in only one instance has it been attended with success.* Mott’s patient, how- ever, on whom the operation was first performed, lived nearly four weeks, and Graefe s more than two months. The main obstacles to the operation are, as the student will perceive from his dissection of this vessel, the deep situation of the artery behind and beneath the sternum, and the number of important structures which surround it in every part. * The operation was performed by I)r. Smyth of New Orleans. See the New Sydenham Society’s ‘Biennial Betrospect,’ for 1865-6, p. J46. Plan of the Relations of the Innominate Artery. In Front. Right vena innominata. Eight pneumogastric nerve. Pleura., Right side. Remains of thymus. Left carotid. Left side. Behind. Trachea.