335 COMMON CAROTID. .... „ . . r Ttimtion The most important peculiarities of this vessel, in Peculiarities as to Point o/ D ^ ^ ± ^ divi£on in the neck. In the majority ot • surgical point o new, relate ^ the artery dividing into two branches ^normal cases, this occuis mg . h . rarely it occurs below its usual place pposite the hyoid the cricoid cartilage; and one pposite the middle of the larynx, carotid, only an inch and a half m length, •ise is related by Mmgag'jb yerv raxely the common carotid ascends in the neck ivided at the root of the necir. . • ’ • . and in two cases, the common rithout any subdWsion, *e interni 1d intc°r’ni cnr„tids arising directly from lTe°archoSf "a Ms pecufiarity existed on both sides in one subject, on one srde rn ,he other. „ . , 7i).nnr7ies The common carotid usually gives off no branches; but it occasionally avefori?? to2e mperlor thyroid, or a laryngeal branch, the tnfenor thyroid, or, more •arely, the vertebral artery. „ . 7 A nneration of tying the common carotid artery may he necessary . thatvessel or its branches, ‘in an aneurism, or in a case of pulsating tumour ;n a wound of that vessel o i v’ lve3 the trunk of the common carotid, it will be of the orbdSwthe wounded part. But in cases of aneurism, necessary to titi the aite^ above carotid is wounded in an inaccessible situ- Wmmmmmm Iced very Syln the ne?k, hut it Is covered by three layers of muscles, and on the left ride the insular vein, in the great majority of cases, passes obliquely m front of it. Neither sh^Kpper end he selected, for here the superior thyroid linguaI, and facial lj crivp vise to very considerable difficulty in the application of a ligatuie. noint most^'twourable^hi^the Operation is opposite the lower part of the larynx, and here a ligature may be applied on the vessel, either above or below the point where it is ciossed bv the Omo-hyoid muscle. In the former situation the artery is most accessible, and it rL S C in cases of wounds or aneurism of any of the kn branches of he carotid- whilst in cases of aneurism of the upper part of the carotid, that part ot the ve«el may be selected which is below the Omo-hyoid. It occasionally happens that the carotid artery bifurcates below its usual position : if the artery be < exposed at its> po“£ bifurcation Lth divisions of the vessel should be tied near their origin, m preference to tyino- the trunk of the artery near its termination; and if, in consequence of the entir aWnce of the common carotid, or from its early division two arteries, the external and internal carotids, are met with, the ligature should he placed on that vessel which is fou tto veffand the inner margin of the Sterno-.nastoid are the chief guides to its performance. To tie the Common Carotid, above the Omo-hyoid. The patient should be placed' on his back with the head thrown back: an incision is to be made, three inches long, m the direction of the anterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, from a little below the angle of the iaw to a level with the cricoid cartilage : after dividing the integument, superficial fascia and Platysma, the deep fascia must be cut through on a director, so as to avoid wounding numerous small veins that are usually found beneath. The head may now be brought forwards so as to relax the parts somewhat, and the margins of the wound held asunder by copper spatulte. The descendens noni. nerve is now exposed, and must be avoided, and the sheath of the vessel having been raised by forceps, is to be opened over the artery to a small extent at its inner side. The internal jugular vein may now present itself alternately distended and relaxed; this should be compressed both above and below, and drawn outwards, in order to facilitate the operation. The aneurism needle is now passed from the outside, care being taken to keep the needle in close contact with the artery, and thus avoid the risk of injuring the jugular vein, or including the vagus nerve. Before the ligature is tied, it should he ascertained that nothing but the artery is in- cluded in it. To tic the Common Carotid below the Omo-hyoid. The patient should he placed in the same position as above-mentioned. An incision about three inches in length is to be nia e, parallel with the inner edge of the Sterno-mastoid, commencing on a level with the cncou cartilage. The inner border of the Sterno-mastoid having been exposed, the sterno-mastou artery and a large vein, the middle thyroid will he seen, and must he carefully avoided , tie Sterno-mastoid is to be drawn outwards, and the Sterno-hyoid and thyoid muscles lnwaids. The deep fascia must now be divided below the Omo-hyoid muscle, and the sheath baling been exposed, must be opened, care being taken to avoid the descendens noni, which here runs on the inner or tracheal side. The jugular vein and vagus nerve being then presse o the outer side, the needle must he passed round the artery from without inwards, great eaic