MUSCLES AND FASCLE. 208 Relations. Externally, with tho skin; internally, with the temporal fascia, which separates it from the temporal artery and vein. The Retrahens Aurem consists of two or three fleshy fasciculi, which arise from tho mastoid portion of the temporal bone by short aponeurotic fibres. They ai’e inserted into the lower part of the cranial surface of the concha. Relations. Externally, with the integument; internally, with the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Nerves. The Attollens aurem is supplied by the small occipital; the Attrahens aurem, by the fascial; and the Retrahens aurem, by the posterior auricular branch of the fascial. Actions. In man, these muscles possess very little action ; the Attollens aurem slightly raises the ear ; the Attrahens aurem draws it forwards and upwards ; and the Retrahens aurem draws it backwards. 3. Palpebral Region. (Fig. 148.) Orbicularis Palpebrarum. Levator Palpebrro. Corrugator Supercilii. Tensor Tarsi. Dissection (fig. 147). In order to expose the muscles of the face, continue the longi- tudinal incision, made in the dissection of the Occipito-frontalis, down the median line of the face to the tip of the nose, and from this point onwards to the upper lip ; and carry another incision along the margin of the lip to the angle of the mouth, and transversely across the face to the angle of the jaw. Then make an incision in front of the external ear, from the angle of the jaw upwards, to join the transverse incision made in exposing the Occipito-frontalis. These incisions include a square-shaped flap, which should he re- moved in the direction marked in the figure, with care, as the muscles at some points are intimately adherent to the integument. The Obicularis Palpebrarum is a sphincter muscle, which surrounds the circum- ference of the orbit and eyelids. It arises from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, from the nasal process of the superior jnaxillarj in front of the lachrymal groove, and from the anterior surface and borders of a short tendon, the tendo palpebrarum, placed at the inner angle of the orbit. From this origin, the fibres are directed outwards, forming a broad, thin, and flat layer, which covers the eyelids, surrounds the circumference of the orbit, and spreads out over the temple, and downwards on the cheek, becoming blended with Occipito-frontalis and Corrugator supercilii. The palpebral portions (ciliaris) of the Orbicularis is thin and pale; it arises from the bifurcation of the tendo palpebrarum, and forms a series of concentric curves, which are united on the outer side of the eyelids at an acute angle by a cellular raphe, some being inserted into the external tarsal ligament and malar bone. The orbicular portion (orbicularis latus) is thicker and of a reddish colour: its fibres are well developed, and form complete ellipses. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the integument. By its deep sur- face, above, with the Occipito-frontalis and Corrugator supercilii, with which it is intimately blended, and with the supra-orbital vessels and nerve ; below, it covers, the lachrymal sac, and the origin of the Levator labii superioris, and the Levator labii superioris alceque nasi muscles. Internally, it is occasionally blended with the Pyramidalis nasi. Externally, it lies on tbe temporal fascia. On the eyelids, it is separated from the conjunctiva by a fibrous membrane and the tarsal car- tilages. The tendo palpebrarum (tendo oculi) is a short tendon, about two lines in length and one in breadth, attached to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone in front of the lachrymal groove. Crossing the lachrymal sac, it divides into two parts, each division being attached to the inner extremity of the corresponding tarsal cartilage. As the tendon crosses the lachrymal sac, a strong aponeurotic lamina is given off from the posterior surface, which expands over tbe sac, and is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. This is the reflected aponeurosis of the tendo palpebrarum. The Corrugator Supercilii is a small, narrow, pyramidal muscle, placed at the