OF THE TARSUS. 197 •espectively, and the anterior fibres also limit abduction. Tho posterior portion >f the external lateral ligament assists the middle portion in resisting the dis- ffacement of the foot backwards, and deepens the cavity for the reception of tho -,stra"alus. The anterior fasciculus is a security against the displacement of the oot forwards, and limits extension of the joint. The movements of abduction and adduction of the foot, together with the minute changes in form by which it is /pplied to the ground or takes hold of an object in climbing, &c., are effected in he tarsal joints; the one which enjoys the greatest amount of motion being that etween the astragalus and os calcis behind, and the scaphoid and cuboid in front, 'his is often called the transverse tarsal joint, and it, with the subordinate joints of le tarsus can replace the ankle-joint in a great measure when the latter has i ecome ankylosed. V. Articulations of the Tarsus. These articulations may be subdivided into three sets :—i. The articulations of rue first row of tarsal bones. 2. The articulations of the second row of tarsal rones. 3. The articulations of the two rows with each other. 1. Articulations of the First Row of Tarsal Bones. The articulations between the astragalus and os calcis are two in number— iterior and posterior. They are arthrodial joints. The bones are connected .’gether by three ligaments:— External Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid. Interosseous. ' The External Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (fig. 144) is a short strong fasci- lus, passing from the outer surface of the astragalus, immediately beneath its • teraal malleolar facet, to the outer edge of the os calcis. It is placed in front of : e middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with the ores of which it is parallel. ’ The Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (fig. 143) connects the posterior tremity of the astragalus with the upper contiguous surface of the os calcis; it a short narrow band, the fibres of which are directed obliquely backwards and * wards. The Interosseous Ligament forms the chief bond of union between the bones, consists of numerous vertical and oblique fibres, attached by one extremity, to e groove between the articulating surfaces of the astragalus ; by the other, to a (responding depression on the upper surface of the os calcis. It is very thick d strong, being at least an inch in breadth from side to side, and serves to unite 3 os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 146) are four in number: one for the posterior caneo-astragaloid articulation; a second for the anterior caleaneo-astragaloid at. The latter synovial membrane is continued forwards between the contiguous •faces of the astragalus and scaphoid bones. 2. Articulations of the Second Row of Tarsal Bones. The articulations between the scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform are effected the following ligaments :— Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. The Dorsal Ligaments are small bands of parallel fibres, which pass from each le to the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. Tho Vlantar Ligaments have the same arrangement on the plantar surface. Che Interosseous Jstgamenls are four in number. They consist of strong trans-