196 ARTICULATIONS. Relations. Tho tendons, vessols, and nerves in connection with the joint are, in front, from within outwards, the Tibialis anticus, Extensor proprius pollicis, anterior tibial vessels, anterior tibial nerve, Extensor communis digitoram, and Peroneus tertius : behind, from within outwards, Tibialis posticus, Plexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels, posterior tibial nerve, Flexor longus pollicis ; and, in the groove behind the external malleolus, the tendons of the Peroneus longus and brevis. The Arteries supplying tho joint are derived from the malleolar branches of the anterior tibial and peroneal. The Nerves are derived from the anterior tibial. Actions. The movements of tho joint are limited to flexion and extension. There is no lateral motion ; the astragalus being embraced by the two malleoli, and held securely in its place in all positions of the foot. Of these the external malleolus is longer than the internal, and is situated further backwards, an arrangement which Prof. Humphry connects with the direction in which the weight of the body appears to be transmitted to each side of the foot when planted on 144.—Ankle-Joint: Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations. External View. Right Side. and raised off the ground.* The lower tibio-fibular joint and the elasticity of the fibula permit of some separation of the two bones in flexion and extension of tho limb, corresponding to the varying size of the surface of the astragalus ; the latter is considerably wider in front than behind (fig. 113, p. 134) in or(^er to resist the tendency to dislocation of the foot backwards in alighting on the toes. Of the ligaments, the internal, or deltoid, is of very great power—so much so that it usually resists a force which fractures the process of bone to which it is attached. Its middle portion, together with the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament, binds tho bones of the leg firmly to the foot and resists displacement in every direction. Its anterior and posterior fibres limit extension and flexion of the foot * The fact should he remembered in operative surgery. Thus the ankle-joint is more easily opened at the inside than the outside, in consequence of the relative shortness of the internal malleolus. Again, in cutting the flaps for Syme’s amputation, if the knife is carried as far upwards and forwards as the point of the inner malleolus, the posterior flap will be not unmanageably long, and great difficulty will be found in reflecting it over the os calcis.