LATERAL VENTRICLES. 483 * : tenia semicircularis, thalamus opticus, choroid plexus, corpus fimbriatum, and .fornix. The anterior cornu is triangular in form, passing outwards into the anterior lobe, and curving round the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum. It is bounded above and in front, by the corpus callosum; behind, by the coipus 'Striatum. The posterior cornu, or digital cavity, curves backwards into the substance of the posterior lobe, its direction being backwards and outwards, and then inwards. On its floor is seen a longitudinal eminence, which corresponds with a deep sulcus, between two convolutions: this is called the hippocampus minor. Between the middle and posterior horns a smooth eminence is observed, which varies con- siderably in size in different subjects. It is called the eminentia collateralis. The corpses striatum has received its name from the striped appearance which its • section presents, in consequence of diverging white fibres being mixed with the <rvcy matter which forms the greater part of its substance. The interventricular portion is a large pear-shaped mass, of a grey colour externally ; its broad ex- tremity is directed forwards, into the fore part of the body, and anterior cornu of •the lateral ventricle : its narrow end is directed outwards and backwards, being 'Separated from its fellow by the thalami optiei: it is covered by the serous lining of the cavity, and crossed by some veins of considerable size. The extraventricular ■.portion is imbedded in the white substance of the hemisphere. The tcenia semicircular is is a narrow, whitish, semi-transparent band of medullary substance, situated in the depression between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus. Anteriorly, it descends in connection with the anterior pillar of the !fornix; behind, it is continued iuto the descending horn of the ventricle, where it .becomes lost. Its surface, especially at its fore-part, is transparent, and dense in 'Structure, and this was called by Tarinus the horny land. It consists of longi- ttudinal white fibres, the deepest of which run between the corpus striatum and ’thalamus opticus. Beneath it is a large vein {vena corporis striaii), which receives inumerous smaller veins from the surface of the corpus striatum and thalamus i opticus, and joins the venae Galeni. The choroid plexus is a highly vascular, fringe-like membrane, occupying the ’margin of the fold of pia mater (velum interposition), in the interior of the brain. It extends, in a curved direction, across the floor of the lateral ventricle. In front, ’where it is small and tapering, it communicates with the choroid plexus of the 1 opposite side, through a large oval aperture, the foramen of Monro. Posteriorly, it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, where it joins with the pia mater through the transverse fissure. In structure, it consists of minute and highly vascular villous processes, the villi being covered by a single layer of epithelium, composed of large, round corpuscles, containing, besides a central nucleus, a bright yellow spot. The arteries of the choroid plexus enter the ven- tricle at the descending cornu, and, after ramifying through its substance, send branches into the substance of the brain. The veins of the choroid plexus termi- nate in the venoe Galeni. The corpus fimbriatum {tcenia hippocampi) is a narrow, white, tape-like band, situated immediately behind the choroid plexus. It is the lateral edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and is attached along the inner border of the hippo- campus major as it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. It may be traced as far as the pes hippocampi. The thalami optiei and fornix will be described when more completely exposed, in a later stage of the dissection of the brain. The middle cornu should now be exposed, throughout its entire extent, by introducing the little finger gently into it, and cutting outwards, along the finger through the substance of’ the hemisphere, which should bo removed, to an extent sufficient to expose the entire cavity. The middle, or descending cornu, the largest of the three, traverses the middle lobe ot the bruin, forming in its course a remarkable curve round the back of the