269 ANTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. cumflex vessels. By its inner border, with the brachial artery, and the median and musculocutaneous nerves. By its outer border, with the short head of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. The Biceps is a long fusiform muscle, occupying the whole of the anterior surface of the arm, and divided above into two portions or heads, from which circumstance it has received its name. The short head arises by a thick flattened tendon from the apex of the coracoid process, in common with the Coracoid- brachialis. The long Read arises from the upper margin of the glenoid cavity, by a long rounded tendon, which is continuous with the glenoid ligament. This tendon arches over the head of the humerus, being enclosed in a special sheath of the synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint; it then pierces the capsular ligament at its attachment to the humerus, and descends in the bicipital groove, in which it is retained by a fibrous prolongation from the tendon of the Pectoralis major. The fibres from this tendon form a rounded belly, and, about the middle of tho arm, join with the portion of the muscle derived from the short head. The belly of the muscle, narrow and somewhat flattened, terminates above the elbow in a flattened tendon, which is inserted into the back part of the tuberosity of the radius, a synovial bursa being interposed between the tendon and the front of tho tuberosity. The tendon of the muscle is thin and broad ; as it approaches the radius it becomes narrow and twisted upon itself, being applied by a flat surface to the back part of the tuberosity : opposite the bend of the elbow the tendon gives off, from its inner side, a broad aponeurosis, which passes obliquely downwards and inwards across the brachial artery, and is continuous with the fascia of the forearm (fig. 169). The inner border of this muscle forms a guide to the position of the vessel, in tying the brachial artery in the middle of the arm.* Relations. Its anterior surface is overlapped above by the Pectoralis major and Deltoid; in the rest of its extent it is covered by the superficial and deep fasciae and the integument. Its posterior surface rests on the shoulder-joint and humerus, from which it is separated by the Subscapularis, Teres Major, Latissimus dorsi, Brachialis anticus, and the musculo-cutaneous nerve. Its inner border is in relation with the Coraco-brachialis, the brachial vessels, and median nerve; its outer border, with the Deltoid and Supinator longus. The Brachialis Anticus is a broad muscle, which covers the elbow-joint and the lower half of the front of the humerus. It is somewhat compressed from before backward, and is broader in the middle than at either extremity. It arises from the lower half of the outer and inner surfaces of the shaft of the humerus ; and commences above at the insertion of the Deltoid, which it embraces by two angular processes. Its origin extends below, to within an inch of the margin of the arti- cular surface, and is limited on each side by the external and internal borders of the shaft of the humerus. It also arises from the intermuscular septa on each side, but more extensively from the inner than the outer. Its fibres converge to a thick tendon, which is inserted into a rough depression on the under surface of the coronoid process of the ulna, being received into an interval between two fleshy slips of the Flexor digitorum profundus. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Biceps, the brachial vessels, mus- culo-cutaneous, and median nerves. By its posterior surface, with the humerus and front of the elbow-joint. By its inner border, with the Triceps, ulnar nervo, and Pronator radii teres, from which it is separated by the intermuscular septum. By its outer border, with the musculo-spiral nerve, radial recurrent artery, the Supinator longus, and Extensor carpi radialis longior. %UUtuL A third head to the Biceps is occasionally found (Theile says as often as once in eight or nine subjects), arising at tho upper and inner part of the Brachialis anticus, with tho nbres oi which it is continuous, and inserted into the bicipital fascia and inner side of the tendon of the Biceps. In most cases, this additional slip passes behind tho brachial artery in its course down the.arni. Occasionally, tho third head consists of two slips, which pass down, one in front, the other behind the artery, concealing the vessel in tho lower halt of