72 THE SKELETON. the supraorbital notch (or foramen), for the passage of the supraorbital artery, veins and nerve. The apex, situated at the back of the orbit, corresponds to the optic foramen, a short circular canal, which transmits the optic nerve and ophthal- mic artery. It will thus be seen that there are nine openings communicating with each orbit, viz. tho optic, foramen lacei’um anterius, spheno-maxillary fissure, supra- orbital foramen, infraorbital canal, anterior and posterior ethmoidal foramina, malar foramina, and lachrymal canal. The Nasal Foss.®. The Nasal Fossce are two large irregular cavities, situated in the middle line of the face, extending from the base of the cranium to the roof of the mouth, and separated from each other by a thin vertical septum. They communicate by two large apertures, the anterior nares, with the front of the face; and with the pha- rynx behind by the two posterior nares. These fossas are much narrower above than below, and in the middle than at the anterior or posterior openings : their depth, which is considerable, is much greater in the middle than at either extremity. Each nasal fossa communicates with four sinuses, the frontal above, the sphenoidal behind, and the maxillary and ethmoidal on either side. Each fossa also commu- nicates with four cavities : with the orbit by the lachrymal canal, with the mouth by the anterior palatine canal, with the cranium' by the olfactory foramina, and with the spheno-maxillary fossa by the spheno-palatine foramen; and they occa- sionally communicate with each other by an aperture in the septum. The bones 66.—Roof, Floor, and Outer Wall of Nasal Fossa. Hoof Nasal Bone Natal Spine of J'tonto! Bone Horizontal Flate cfHth VtWlW, iSphrnoid Floor Ant. Nasal Sjniiw Palate Proc. of Sup-Maze. Palate Proc. of Palate Pose. Nasal Spine, throb. Palatine Canal Prole, passed through Naso lachry mal Ca nal Bristle passed through Infundilulam ■ Ou,tr>r Wall '—yP— Nasci I Proc. of SupMox —d -— T,arh.rymaL Bthnioid - VnciforniBrnc cf ditto 'Inferior Turin mated- Palate ■Superior Meal us Middle Meatus Inferior Meatus entering into their formation are fourteen in number: three of the cranium, the frontal, sphenoid, the ethmoid, and all tho bones of the face, excepting the malar and lower jaw. Each cavity is bounded by a roof, a floor, an inner and an outer wall. The upper wall, or roof (fig. 66), is long, narrow, and concave from before back- wards ; it is formed in front by the nasal bones and nasal spine of the frontal, which are directed downwards and forwards ; in the middle, by the cribriform lamella of