709 EXTERNAL FEMALE ORGANS. the dartos of the scrotum, besides vessels, nerves, and glands. The labia are thicker in front than behind, and joined together at each extremity, forming the anterior and posterior commissures. The interval left between the posterior com- missure and the margin of the anus is about an inch in length, and constitutes the perinceum. Just within the posterior commissure is a small transverse fold, the frcenalumpudendi or fourchetie, which is commonly ruptured in the first partu- rition, and the space between it and the commissure is called the fossa navicularis. The labia are analogous to the scrotum in the male. The labia minora or nymphce are two small folds of mucous membrane, situated within the labia majora, extending from the clitoris obliquely downwards and outwards for about an inch and a half on each side of' the orifice of the vagina, on the sides of which they are lost. They are continuous externally with the labia majora, internally with the inner surface of the vagina. As they converge towards the clitoris in front, each labium divides into two folds, which surround the glans clitoridis, the superior folds uniting to form the prgeputium clitoridis, the inferior folds being attached to the glans, and forming the frsenum. The nymph® are t composed of mucous membrane, covered by a thin epithelial layer. They contain a plexus of vessels in their interior, and are provided with numerous large mucous crypts which secrete abundance of sebaceous matter. The clitoris is an erectile structure, analogous to the corpora cavernosa of the penis. It is situated beneath the anterior commissure, partially hidden between ■the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It is an elongated organ, connected tto the rami of the pubes and ischia on each side by two crura; the body is -short, and concealed beneath the labia; the free extremity, or glans clitoridis, is ;a small rounded tubercle, consisting of spongy erectile tissue, and highly sensitive. The clitoris consists of two corpora cavernosa, composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, united together along their inner surfaces i by an incomplete fibrous pectiniform septum. It is provided, like the penis, with aa suspensory ligament, and with two small muscles, the Erectores clitoridis, which aare inserted into the crura of the corpora cavernosa. Between the clitoris, and the entrance of the vagina, is a triangular smooth Is surface, bounded on each side by the nymph®: this is the vestibule. The orifice of the urethra {meatus urinarius), is situated at the back part of the vestibule, about an inch below the clitoris, and near the margin of the vagina, surrounded by a prominent elevation of the mucous membrane. Below the meatus urinarius, is the orifice of the vagina, an elliptical aperture, more or less dosed in the virgin, by a membranous fold, the hymen. The hymen is a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, stretched across he lower part of the orifice of the vagina ; its concave margin being turned ipwards towards the pubes. Sometimes this membrane forms a complete eptum across the orifice of the vagina : a condition known as imperforate hymen. Iccasionally, it forms a circular septum, perforated in the centre by a round ipening; sometimes it is cribriform, or its free margin forms a membranous ringe, or it may be entirely absent. It may also persist after copulation. The ymen cannot, consequently, be considex’ed as a test of virginity. Its rupture, or he rudimentary condition of the membrane above referred to, gives rise to those ■mall rounded elevations which surround the opening of the vagina, the caruncutai lyrtiformes. Glands of Bartlioline. On each side of the commencement of the vagina is a ound or oblong body, of a reddish-yellow colour, and of the size of a horse- man, analogous to Cowper’s gland in the male. It is called the gland of iartholine. Each gland opens by means of a long single duct, upon the inner ide of the nymph®, external to the hymen. Extending from the clitoris, along ither side of the vestibule, and lying a little behind the nymph®, arc two large blong masses, about an inch in length, consisting of a plexus of veins, enclosed i a thin layer of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow in front, rounded elow, and are connected with the crura of the clitoris and rami of tho pubes ;