ARCH OF AORTA. 327 Relation* The ascending part of tl.o arch is corered at its commencement by he trank of the pulmonary artery and the right auricular appendix, and, higher n is separated from the sternum by the pericardium, some oose areolar tissue, .p,M separate th ,,Uuid ; behind, it rests upon the right pulmonary " ” of t right tag. On the riejU side, it is in relation with the uperior “ena cava and right auricle ; on the left side, with the pulmonary artery. Plan of the Relations of the Ascending Part of the Arch. Right side. Superior cava. Right auricle. In Front. Pulmonary artery. Right auricular appendix. Pericardium. Remains of thymus gland. Left side. .Pulmonary artery. Behind. Right pulmonary vessels. Root of right lung. Transverse Part of the Arch. The second or transverse portion of the arch commences at the upper border of the second costo-sternal articulation of the right side m front, and passes from rio-ht to left, and from before backwards, to the left side of the third dorsal vertebra behind.* Its upper border is usually about an inch below the upper margin of the sternum. Relations. Its anterior surface is covered by the left pleura and lung, an crossed towards the left side by the left pneumogastric and phrenic nerves, and cardiac branches of the sympathetic. Its posterior surface lies on the trachea, just above its bifurcation, on the great cardiac plexus, the oesophagus, thoracic duct, and left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Its upper border is in relation with * As regards the portion of the dorsal spine with which the transverse part of the arch o the aorta is in contact I am indebted to Mr. Bennett, late demonstratoi ot Anatomy at St. George’s Hospital for the following observation :— * In twelve subjects examined successively in the post-mortem room of the Hospital, in whom the vessels were healthy, the following was the result as regards the highest point on the vertebral column touched by the arch of the aorta. In nine it was opposite some part of the third dorsal vertebra; in one opposite the disc between the third and fourth, in one opposite the disc between the second and third, and in one opposite the second dorsal vertebra.7 Mr. J. Wood gives the following account of the relations and extent of the arch of the aorta, as the result of his observations on thirty-two subjects, fourteen male and eighteen female, in whom an antero-posterior vertical section of the spinal column from top to bottom had been made, with the viscera in situ. The cardiac opening of the aorta lies in a horizontal plane drawn through the centre of the third bone of the sternum, passing midway between the third and fourth rib-cartilages, and emerging behind about the tip of the sixth dorsal spinous process, lhe highest point of the aortic arch lies from three-quarters of an inch to an inch from the posterior surface of the second bone of the sternum, close to its right border, and to the inner side of the joint between the second right rib-cartilage and the sternum. It approaches the lower border of the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra, and first touches the spine usually about the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth vertebrae. It then assumes a more vertical direction, and lies against the left side of the body ot the fifth dorsal vertebra, which is, in fact, the uppermost vertebra which shows on its body the impression or flat- tening produced by contact with the aorta (Journ. of An at. and Pht/s. vol. iii.) This anatomist accordingly puts the lower two portions of the arch one vertebra lowei than the account in the text, and ho supports his observations by those of Pirogoll.