TEMPORAL BONE. msnJL ‘fy-frnBdsA (^l bnvu attachment of the Sterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, &/ft4-Trachelomiastoi<lmmscles. On the inner side of the mastoid process is a deep groove, the digastric fossa, for the attachment of the Digastric muscle; and, running parallel with it, but more internal, the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery. The internal surface of the mastoid portion presents a deep curved groove, which lodges part of the lateral sinus; and into it may be seen opening the mastoid foramen. A section of the mastoid process shows it to be hollowed out into a number of cellular spaces, communicating with each other, called the mastoid cells ; they open by a single or double orifice into the back of the tympanum; are lined by a prolonga- tion of its lining membrane ; and, probably, form some secondary part of the organ of hearing. The mastoid cells, like the other sinuses of the cranium, are not developed until after puberty ; hence the prominence of this process in the adult. Borders. The superior border of the mastoid portion is broad and rough, its serrated edge sloping outwards, for articulation with the posterior inferior angle of 31.—Left Temporal Bene. Inner Surface. -4 r tic V •p ft T r £ t a / for Superior Cc-nti-eirarlar Canal JLiatus Fallopio Opening for Smaller Petrosal Nerve Depression far CarsscrCan ganglion Bristle passed throtu/h Carotid Canal Agucduetns ri. slflt/h. Depression far Dura-viator flcatus Audiumna interna* the parietal bone. The posterior border, also uneven and serrated, articulates with the inferior border of the occipital bone between its lateral angle and jugular process. The Petrous Portion (7reVpoc, a stone), so named from its extreme density and hardness, is a pyramidal process of bone, wedged in at the base of the skull between . the sphenoid and occipital bones. Its direction from without is inwards, forwards, and a little downwards. It presents for examination a base, an apex, three sur- faces, and three borders; and contains, in its interior, the essential parts of the organ of hearing. The base is applied against the internal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, its upper half being concealed ; but its lower half is exposed by the divergence of those two portions of the bone which brings into view the oval expanded orifice of a canal leading into the tympanum, the meatus auditorius extern us. This canal is situated between the mastoid process and the posterior