203 GENERAL DESCRIPTION. In the dissection of the muscles, the student should pay especial attention to the exact oricjitij insertion) and fictions, ol each, and its more important relations with surrounding parts. An accurate knowledge of the points of attachment of the muscles is of great importance in the determination of their action. By a knowledge of the action of the muscles, the surgeon is able to explain the causes of displacement in various forms of fracture, and the causes which produce distortion in various deformities, and consequently, to adopt appropriate treatment in each case. The relations, also, of some of the muscles, especially those in immediate apposition with the larger blood-vessels, and the surface-markings they produce, should be especially remembered, as they form useful guides in the ap- plication of a ligature to those vessels. Tendons are white, glistening, fibrous cords, varying in length and thick- ness, sometimes round, sometimes flattened, of considerable strength, and only slightly elastic. They consist almost entirely of white fibrous tissue, the fibrils of which have an undulating course parallel with each other, and are firmly united together. They are very sparingly supplied with blood-vessels, the smaller tendons presenting in their interior not a trace of them. Nerves also are not present in the smaller tendons ; but the larger ones, as the tendo Achillis, receive nerves which accompany the nutrient vessels. The tendons consist principally of a substance which yields gelatine. Aponeuroses are fibrous membranes, of a pearly-white colour, iridescent, glistening, and similar in structure to the tendons. They are destitute of nerves, and the thicker ones only sparingly supplied with blood-vessels. The tendons and aponeuroses are connected, on the one hand, with the muscles; and, on the other hand, with the moveable structures, as the bones, cartilages, ligaments, fibrous membranes (for instance, the sclerotic), and the synovial mem- branes (suberureeus, subanconeus). Where the muscular fibres are in a direct line with those of the tendon or aponeurosis, the two are directly continuous, the muscular fibre being distinguishable from that of the tendon only by its striation. But where the muscular fibre joins the tendon or aponeurosis at an oblique angle, the former terminates, according to Kolliker, in rounded extremities, which are received into corresponding depressions, on the surface of the latter, the connective tissue between the fibres being continuous with that of the tendon. The latter mode of attachment occurs in all the penniform and bipenniform muscles, and in those muscles the tendons of which commence in a membranous form, as the Gastrocnemius and Soleus. The fasciae {fascia, a bandage) are fibro-areolar or aponeurotic laminae, of variable thickness and strength, found in all regions of the body, investing the softer and more delicate organs. The fasciae have been subdivided, from the structure which they present, into two groups, fibro-areolar or superficial fasciae, and aponeurotic or deep fasciae. The fibro-areolar fascia is found immediately beneath the integument over almost the entire surface of the body, and is generally known as the supeificial fascia. It connects the skin with the deep or aponeurotic fascia, and consists of fibro-areolar tissue, containing in its meshes pellicles of fat in varying quantity. In the eyelids and scrotum, where adipose tissue is rarely deposited, this tissue is very liable to serous infiltration. The superficial fascia varies in thickness in differ- ent parts of the body: in the groin it is so thick as to be capable of being subdivi- ded into several laminae, but in the palm of the hand it is of extreme thinness, and intimately adherent to the integument. The superficial fascia is capable of separa- tion into two or more layers, between which are found the superficial vessels and nerves, and superficial lymphatic glands; as the superficial epigastric vessels in the abdominal region, the radial and ulnar veins in the forearm, the saphenous veins in the leg and thigh ; certain cutaneous muscles also arc situated in the superficial fascia, as the Platysma myoides in the neck, and the Orbicularis palpebrarum around the eyelids. I his fascia is most distinct at tbo lower part of the abdomen, thescro- tum, perinoeum, and extremities ; is very thin in those regions where muscular