OS INNOMINATUM. IT5 separated by a notch. Of these, the uppermost, situated at the junction of the crest and anterior border, is called the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium the outer border of which gives attachment to the fascia lata, and the origin of the Tensor vagintB femoris ; its inner border, to the Iliacus internus ; whilst its extremity affords attachment to Poupart’s ligament^and the origin of the Sartorius. Beneath this eminence is a notch which gives attachment to the Sartorius muscle, and across which passes the external cutaneous nerve. Below the notch is the anterior inferior spinous process, which terminates in the upper lip of the aceta- bulum ; it gives attachment to the straight tendon of the Rectus femoris muscle. On the inner side of the anterior inferior spinous process is a broad shallow groove, over which passes the Iliacus muscle. The posterior border of the ilium, shorter than the anterior, also presents two projections separated by a notch, the posterior superior and the posterior inferior spinous processes. The former corresponds with that portion of the posterior surface of the ilium which serves for the attach- ment of the sacro-iliac ligaments ; the latter to the auricular portion which articu- lates with the sacrum. Below the posterior inferior spinous process is a deep notch, the great sacro-sciatic. The Ischium forms the lower and back part of the os innominatum. It is divisible into a thick and solid portion, the body; the tuberosity, a large rough eminence, on which the body rests in sitting; and a thin ascending part, the ramus. The body, somewhat triangular in form, presents three surfaces, external, in- ternal, and posterior. The external surface corresponds to that portion of the acetabulum formed by the ischium ; it is smooth and concave above, and forms a little more than two-fifths of that cavity ; its outer margin is bounded by a pro- minent rim or lip, to which the cotyloid fibro-cartilage is attached. Below the acetabulum, between it and the tuberosity, is a deep groove, along which the tendon of the Obturator externus muscle runs, as it passes outwards, to be inserted into the digital fossa of the femur. The internal surface is smooth, concave, and forms the lateral boundary of the true pelvic cavity; it is broad above, and separated from the venter of the ilium by the linea ilio-pectinea ; narrow below, its posterior border is encroached upon, a little below its centre, by the spine of the ischium, above and below which are the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic notches ; in front, it presents a sharp margin, which forms the outer boundary of the obturator foramen. This surface is perforated by two or three large vascular foramina, and affords attachment to part of the Obturator internus muscle. The 'posterior surface is quadrilateral in form, broad and smooth above, narrow below where it becomes continuous with the tuberosity; it is limited, in front, by the margin of the ace- tabulum ; behind, by the front part of the great sacro-sciatic notch. This surface supports the Pyriformis, the two Gemelli, and the Obturator internus muscles, in their passage outwards to the great trochanter. The body of the ischium presents three borders, posterior, inferior, and internal. The 'posterior border presents, a little below the centre, a thin and pointed triangular eminence, the spine of the ischium, more or less elongated in different subjects. Its external surface gives attachment to the Gemellus superior, its internal surface to the Coccygeus and Levator ani; whilst to the pointed extremity is connected the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Above the spine is a notch of large size, the great sacro-sciatic, converted into a foramen by the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; it transmits the Pyriformis muscle, the gluteal vessels, and superior gluteal nerve passing out of the pelvis above the muscle; the sciatic artery, the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, the in- ternal pudic vessels and nerve, and a small nerve to the Obturator internus muscle below it. Below the spine is a smaller notch, the lesser sacro-sciatic ; it is smooth, coated in the recent state with cartilage, the surface of which presents numerous markings corresponding to the subdivisions of the tendon of the Obturator internus which winds over it. It is converted into a foramen by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and transmits the tendon of the Obturator internus, the nerve which supplies that muscle, and the pudic vessels and nerve. The inferior border is thick and broad ;