336 ARTERIES. being tnken to avoid the inferior nerves which lie behind it. Collateral Circulation. After ligature of the common carotid, the collateral circulation can be perfectly established, by the free communication which exists between the carotid arteries of opposite sides, both without and within the cranium—and by enlargement of the branches of the subclavian artery on the side corresponding to that on which the vessel has been tied, the chief communication outside the skull taking place between the superior and inferior thyroid arteries, and the profunda cervicis, and arteria princeps cervices of the occipital; the vertebral taking the place of the internal carotid within the cranium. Sir A. Cooper had an opportunity of dissecting, thirteen years after the operation, the case in which he first successfully tied the common carotid (the second case in which he performed the operation). Guy's Hospital Reports, i. 56. The injection, however, does not seem to have been a successful one. It showed merely that the arteries at the base of the brain (circle of Willis) were much enlarged on the side of the tied artery, the basiliar artery on that side Laving been one of the chief means of restoring the circulation, and that the anastomosis between the branches of the external carotid on the afFected side and those of the same artery on the sound side was free, so that the external carotid was pervious throughout. thyroid artery, the recurrent laryngeal, and sympathetic External Carotid Artery. The external carotid artery (fig. 207), arises opposite the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and taking a slightly curved course, ascends upwards and for- wards, and then inclines backwards, to the space between the neck of the condyle of the lower jaw, and the external meatus, where it divides into the temporal and internal maxillary arteries. It rapidly diminishes in size in its course up the neck, owing to the number and large size of the branches given off from it. In the child, it is somewhat smaller than the internal carotid : but in the adult, the two vessels are of nearly equal size. At its commencement, this artery is more super- ficial, and placed nearer the middle line than the internal carotid, and is contained in the triangular space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid behind, the Omo-hyoid below, and .thenost^ior belly of the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid above ; it is covered by the skirp^Platysn^nf^^eep fascia, and anterior margin of the Sterno-mastoid, crossed by the hypoglossal nerve, and by the lingual and facial veins: it is after- wards crossed by the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and higher up passes deeply into the substance of the parotid gland, where it lies beneath the facial nerve and the junction of the temporal and internal maxillary veins. Internally is the hyoid bone, the wall of the pharynx, and the ramus of the jaw, from which it is separated by a portion of the parotid gland. Behind it, near its origin, is the superior laryngeal nerve; and higher up, it is separated from the internal carotid by the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus muscles, the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and part of the parotid gland. Plan of the Relations of the External Carotid. In Front. Integument, superficial fascia. Platvsma and deep fascia. Hypoglossal nerve. Lingual and fascial veins. Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles. Parotid gland with facial nerve and temporo-maxillary vein in its substance. Behind. . Superior Laryngeal nerve. We*. Stylo-glossus. | Qjo Stylo-pharyngeus. G losso-pharvngeal nerve. Parotid gland. Internally. Ilyoid bone. Pharynx. Parotid gland. Ramus of jaw. Surr/icrll Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the external carotid may be required in cases of wounds of this vessel, or of its brunches when these cannot be tied, and in some