32 THE SKELETON. and middle roots oftlio zygoma; its upper margin is smooth and rounded, but the gi eater part of its circumference is surrounded by a curved plate of bone, the audi- tory process, the freo margin of which is thick and rough, for the attachment of the cartilage of the external ear. The apex of the petrous portion, rough and uneven, is received into the angular interval betweon the spinous process of the sphenoid and the basilar process of the occipital; it presents the anterior or internal orifice of the carotid canal, and forms the posterior and external boundary of the foramen laccrum medium. iho anterior surface of the petrous portion (fig. 31) forms the posterior boundary of the middle fossa of the skull. This surface is continuous with the squamous poi tion, to which it is united by a suture, the temporal suture, the remains of which are distinct even at a lato period of life : it presents six points for examina- tion : 1. an eminence near the centre, which indicates the situation of the superior vertical semicircular canal: 2. on the outer side of this eminence a depression, in- 32.—Petrous Portion. Inferior Surface. Cu mils for Jiustool tan tube a rut '1 Vusor LEVATOR PALAT I STYLO -PHaRY Rough Qua,tin lateral Stir feme Opening of carotid cm ml Canal for Jacobsons nerve AgufJt/c.rus Canal for A rnold's nerve Jugula r fossa Vaginal jprocess Styloid Stylo- mastoid foramen Jugular Surface Auricular fissu re NOLUS dicating the position of the tympanum, the layer of bone which separates the tympanum from the cranial cavity being extremely thin : 3. a shallow groove, sometimes double, leading backwards to an oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the passage of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve : ft a smaller opening, occasionally seen external to the latter for the passago of The smaller petrosal nerve: 5. near the apex of the bone the termination of the carotid canal, the wall of which in this situation is deficient in front: 6. above this canal, a shallow depression for the reception of the Casserian ganglion. The posterior surface forms the front boundary of the posterior fossa of the skull^ and is continuous with the inner surface of the mastoid portion of the bone. It presents three points for examination: 1. about its centre, a large orifice, the meatus auditorius internus, whose size varies considerably ; its margins are smooth