334 arteries. tho artery and vein, on a plane posterior to both. On opening the sheath the th.ee structures are seen to be separated from one another^each being enoLd 3 a. separate fibrous investment. 0 ,0 111 superficial fascia, Platysma, and deep fascia, and inner margin of'the strnt mastoid' rtf' 1\C°^amed m a triangular space, bounded behind by the Stemo' belly of the O V F0St°?0T bGlly °f the Digastric> a*d below by the anterior belly of the Omo-hyoid. This part of the artery is crossed obliquely from within jVar S. ^ ie ®tcrno-mastoid artery; it is crossed also by the facial linemal cn superior thyroid veins, which terminate in the internal jugular, and descend- . ? °f lts sheath in front, is seen the descendens noni nerve this filament hpi™ joined with branches from the cervical nerves, which cross the vessel from without inwards Sometimes the descendens noni is contained within the sheath The middle thyroid vein crosses the artery about its middle, and the anterior jugular W • BejTr 6 arteiT KeS in fr°nt °f the Cervical portion of the spine lestmg first on the Longus colli muscle, then on the Rectus anticus major from which it is separated by the sympathetic nerve. The recurrent laryngeal ’nerve and inferior thyroid artery cross behind the vessel at its lower part Interrlttv it is m ielation with the trachea and thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid artery phaITTrrOu tarJTJ T76 bTg ; Wgher nP’ witl* th° W™ and gaSc uerv° Me P ‘he intemal J'Ug,llar Teio pneumo- At the lower part of the neck, the internal jugular vein on the right side diverges . T artery’ but 0n^the Slde approaches it, and often crosses its lower 1 ■ is is an important fact to bear m mind during the performance of anv operation on the lower part of the left common carotid artery. 7 Plan of the Relations of the Common Carotid Artery. In Front. Integument and fascia. Omo-hyoid. Ilatysrua. __ Descendens noni-nerve. Sterno-mastoid artery. Thyroid, lingual, and fascial veins. Anterior jugular vein. Sterno-mastoid Sterno-hyoid. Sterno-thyroid. Externally. Internal jugular vein. Pneumogastric nerve. Internally. Trachea. Thyroid gland. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. Inferior thyroid artery. Larynx. Pharynx. Longus colli. Rectus anticus major. Behind. Sympathetic nerve. „ Inferior thyroid artery. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. 4W . . l£o^u V a,S\!° TIle rif/ht common carotid may arise above or below its usual PPef border of the sterno-clavicular articulation. This variation occurs in one out of about eight cases and a half, and the origin is more frequently above than below the usual point; or the artery may arise as a separate branch from the arch of the aorta or m conjunction with the left carotid. The left common carotid varies more frequently its origin than the right. _ In the majority of abnormal cases it arises with the innominate artery or if the innominate artery is absent, the two carotids arise usually by a sbX tounk I he left carotid has a tendency towards the right side of the arch of the aorta, bei mocca on- ally the first branch given off from the transverse portion. It rarely join with thTleft subclavian, except in cases of transposition of the arch. * J