655 HEART—LEFT AURICLE. moveablo segment is placed towards the left side of the auriculo-vcntricular opening; interposed between that opening and the pulmonary artery. Another segment conesponds to the front of the ventricle; and a third to its posterior wall. The central part of each segment is thick and strong ; the lateral margins are thin and indented. The chordaa tendinese are connected with the adjacent margins of the principal segments of the valve, and are further attached to each segment in the following manner : 1. Three or four reach the attached margin of each segment, where they are continuous with the auriculo-ventricular tendinous ring. 2. Others, four to six in number, are attached to the central thickened part of each segment. 2. The most numerous and finest are connected with the mar- ginal portion of each segment. The columnce carnece are the rounded muscular columns which project from nearly the whole of the inner surface of the ventricle, excepting near the opening of the pulmonary artery. They may be classified, according to their mode of connection with the ventricle, into three sets. The first set merely form prominent ridges on the inner surface of the ventricle, being attached by their entire length on one side, as well as by their extremities. The second set are attached by their two extremities, but are free in the rest of their extent; whilst the third set (1columnce, papillares), three or four in number, are attached by one extremity to the wall of the heart, the opposite exti’emity giving attachment to the chordce tendinece. The semilunar valves, three in number, guard the orifice of the pulmonary artery. They consist of three semicircular folds, formed by a duplicature of the lining membrane, strengthened by fibrous tissue. They are attached, by their convex margins, to the wall of the artery, at its junction with the ventricle, the straight border being free, and directed upwards in the course of the vessel, against the sides of which the valve-flaps are pressed during the passage of the blood along the artery. The free margin of each is somewhat thicker than the rest of the valve, is strengthened by a bundle of tendinous fibres ; and presents, at its middle, a small projecting fibro-cartilaginous nodule, called corpus Arantii. From this nodule, tendinous fibres radiate through the valve to its attached margin, and these fibres form a constituent part of its substance throughout its whole extent, excepting two narrow lunated portions, placed on either side of the nodule, immediately behind the free margin; here, the valve is thin, and formed merely by the lining membrane. During the passage of the blood along the pulmonary artery, these valves are pressed against the sides of its cylinder, and the course of the blood along the tube is uninterrupted ; but during the ventricular diastole, when the current of blood along the pulmonary artery is checked, and partly thrown back by its elastic walls, these valves become imme- diately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tube. When the valves are closed, the lunated portions of each are brought into contact with one another by their opposed surfaces, the three fibro-cartilaginous nodules filling up the small triangular space that would be otherwise left by the approximation of the three • semilunar folds. Between the semilunar valves and the commencement of the pulmonary artery are three pouches or dilatations, one behind each valve. Theso are the pulmonary sinuses (sinuses of Valsalva). Similar sinuses exist between the semilunar valves and the commencement of the aorta ; they are larger than the pulmonary sinuses. ' The blood, in its regurgitation towards the heart, finds its way into these sinuses, and so shuts down the valve-flaps. T lie Left Auricle is rather smaller but thicker than the right, measuring about one line and a half; it consists, like the right, of two parts, a principal cavity or sinus, and an appendix auriculae. I he sinus is cuboidal in form, and concealed in front by the pulmonary artery and aorta; internally, it is separated from tho right auricle by the septum auricu- larum ; behind, it receives on each side the pulmonary veins, being free in the rest of its extent. lhe appendix auriculae is somowliat constricted at its junction with the auricle ;