ARTICULATIONS. 182 radius and the triangular cartilage. 2, The hand proper, viz., the metacarpal hones with the four carpal bones on which they are supported, the unciform, os magnum, trapezoid, and trapezium ; and 3. The meniscus, formed by the cuneiform, semi- lunar, and scaphoid ; the pisiform bone having no essential part in the movements of the hand. These three elements form two joints :—1. The anterior between the hand and meniscus (transverse carpal joint,as it maybe called) mainly ginglymoid in character; 2. The posterior (wrist-joint proper) between the meniscus and bones of the forearm, chiefly arthrodial. 1. The joint between the meniscus and the other four bones of the carpus is subdivided into three portions—the central formed between the deep cup of the semi- lunar above and the head of the os magnum with the adjacent part of the unciform below, is a ginglymoid joint in which some rotation is allowed; the radial portion formed by the scaphoid articulating with a portion of the os magnum, the trape- zoid, and trapezium, represents also a ginglymoid joint in which rotation is permitted ; while the ulnar portion or articulation of the cuneiform with the unciform partakes more of the arthrodial character. The axes of movement of these joints are inclined to each other at a considerable angle, so that in flexion of the hand on the forearm the carpal bones are brought together, and on the con- trary are separated in extension. Extension of the hand on the forearm or dorsi-fiexion Meyer divides into three movements, corresponding to the three portions of the transverse joint. In the first the semilunar moves in its hinge*joint around the head of the os magnum and the edge of the unciform until its motion is checked by its bony surface coming into contact with the adjoining portions of those bones. The second part of the movement con- sists of a hinge-like motion of the scaphoid round the os magnum continued by a rotation of the same bone on a pivot formed by the head of the os magnum until it is checked by the tension of the ligaments uniting it to the trapezium and trapezoid. The third part is effected by the cuneiform which glides outwards or towards the radial side on the unciform to a certain extent and carries the semilunar with it, so that it is disengaged from its contact with the os magnum and unciform, and un- dergoes a further separation from those bones towards the radial side. Flexion of the hand on the forearm, or palmar flexion, is accomplished by the semilunar (with the cuneiform) hinging around the os magnum and unciform, and the scaphoid moving in the same sense until the movement is checked by these two bones coming together. It follows from this that the movement of extension in this joint is considerable, while that of flexion is but slight.* A very trifling rotation is permitted around the head of the os magnum as a pivot; but only to the extent which is deter- mined by the tension of the ligaments connected wuth that bone. 2. The articulation between the forearm and carpus is formed chiefly by the radius articulating with the scaphoid and semilunar, the articulation between the triangular cartilage and cuneiform being of subordinate importance. The ridge which divides the two concave surfaces on the end of the radius is the ceutre of motion in the chief part of the joint. This ridge is so inclined as to represent a portion of a spiral line passing from the point of the styloid process of the ulna to the ridge on the scaphoid which fits in between the trapezium and trapezoid. The result of this arrangement is that in flexion and extension of the hand, its radial ; border describes more of a curve than its ulnar, which moves more parallel to the axis of the forearm. The ulnar border of the hand is also brought more towards the middle line of the forearm than its radial—the meniscus (carrying the hand with it) is displaced towards the radial side in extension and towards the ulnar in flexion. As above noted, extension takes place to a considerable extent * It may not be ftmiss to note that Prof. Humphry attributes a very considerable share in the flexion of the hand to this transverse carpal joint, and believes that extension in the wrist-joint is more free than flexion. The Human skeleton, p. 430.