ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 6io Calcification of tho pormanent teeth commences a little before birth, and pro- ceeds in the following order in the upper jaw, in tho lower jaw a little earlier :— First molar, five or six months ; tho central incisor, a little later; lateral incisors and canine, about the eighth or ninth month ; the bicuspids, at the second year; second molar, five or six years ; wisdom-tooth, about twelve years. Previous to the permanent teeth penetrating the gum, tho bony partitions which separate their sacs from the deciduous teeth are absorbed, tho fangs of the temporary teeth disappear, and the pormanent teeth become placed under the loose crowns of tho deciduous teeth ; the latter finally become detached, and tho perma- nent teeth take their place in the mouth. The eruption of the permanent teeth takes place at the following periods, the teeth of the lower jaw preceding those of the upper by a short interval:— 6^ years, first molars. xoth year, second bicuspid. 7th year, two middle incisors. nth to 12th year, canine. 8th year, two lateral incisors. 12th to 13th year, second molars. gth year, first bicuspid. 17th to 21st year, wisdom-teeth. The Palate. The Palate forms the roof of the mouth ; it consists of two portions, the hard palate in front, the soft palate behind. The hard palate is bounded in front and at the sides by the alveolar arches and gums ; behind, it is continuous with the soft palate. It is covered by a dense structure, formed by the periosteum and mucous membrane of the mouth, which are intimately adherent together. Along the middle line is a linear ladge or raphe, which tex’minates anteriorly in a small papilla, corresponding with the inferior opening of the anterior palatine fossa. This papilla receives filaments from the naso-palatine and anterior palatine nerves. On either side and in front of the raphe, the mucous membrane is thick, pale in colour’, and corrugated ; behind, it is thin, smooth, and of a deeper colour : it is covered with squamous epithelium, and furnished with numerous glands (palatal glands), which lie between the mucous membrane and the surface of the bone. The soft palate (Velum pendulum palati) is a moveable fold, suspended from the posterior border of the hard palate, and forming an incomplete septum between the mouth and pharynx. It consists of a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing muscular fibres, an aponeurosis, vessels, nexwes, and mucous glands. When occu- pying its usual position (i.e. relaxed and pendent), its anterior surface is concave, continuous with the roof of the mouth, and marked by a median I’idge or raphe, which indicates its original separation into two lateral halves. Its postei’ior surface is convex, and continuous with the mucous membrane covering the floor of the posterior nares. Its upper border is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate, and its sides ax’e blended with the pharynx. Its lower border is free. Hanging fi’om the middle of its lower border is a small conical-shaped pendu- lous process, the uvula ; and arching outwards and downwards from the base of the uvula on each side, are two curved folds of mucous membrane, containing muscular fibres, called the arches or pillars of the soft palate. The anterior pillar runs downwards and forwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the projection of the PalatO'glossus muscle, covei’ed by mucous membrane. Tie posterior pillars are xxeax'er to each other and lai’ger than the anterior; they run downwards and backwaxxls to the sides of the pharynx, and ai’e foimed by the projection of the Palato-pharyngei muscles, covered by mucous membrane. The anterior and postei’ior pillars ai’o sepai’ated below by a triangular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. T he space left between the arches of the palate on the two sides is called the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded above by tho free margin of tho palate;