244 MUSCLES AND FASCL33. processes to tho spinous processes of the vertebras, extending from the lower part of the dorsal region to the upper part of the cervical. The Semispinalis TJorsi consists of thin, narrow, fleshy fasciculi, interposed between tendons of considerable length. It arises by a series of small tendons from the transverse processes of tho lower dorsal vertebrae, from the tenth or eleventh to the fifth or sixth ; and is inserted, by five or six tendons, into the spinous processes of the upper four dorsal and lower two cervical vertebras. The Semispinalis Colli, thicker than the preceding, arises by a series of tendinous^ and fleshy points from the transverse processes of the upper four dorsal vertebras and from the articular processes of the lower four cervical vertebras: and is inserted into the spinous processes of four cervical vertebras, from the axis to the fifth cervical. The fasciculus connected with the axis is the largest, and clneily muscular in structure. Relations. By their superficial surface, from below upwards, with the Longis- simus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi, Splenius, Complexus, the profunda cervicis artery, the princeps cervicis artery, and the posterior cervical plexus of nerves. By their deep surface, with the Multifidus spina?. The Multifidus Spince consists of a number of fleshy and tendinous fasciculi, which fill up the groove on either side of the spinous processes of the vertebra?, from the sacrum to the axis. In the sacral region, these fasciculi ain.se from the back of the sacrum, as low as the fourth sacral foramen, and from the aponeurosis of origin of the Erector spina); in the iliac region, from the inner surface of the posterior superior spine, and posterior sacro-iliac ligaments; in the lumbar and cervical regions, from the articular processes ; and in the dorsal region, from the transverse processes. Each fasciculus, ascending obliquely upwards and inwards, is inserted into the lamina and whole length of the spinous process of one of the vertebra? above. These fasciculi vary in length : the most superficial, the longest, pass from one vertebra to the third or fourth above ; those next in order pass from one vertebra to the second or third above ; whilst the deepest connect two contiguous vertebra?. Rilations. By its superficial surface, with the Longissimus dorsi, Spinalis dorsi, Semispinalis dorsi, and Semispinalis colli. By its deep surface, with the lamina?, aud spinous processes of the vertebrae, and with the Rotatores spina? in the dorsal region. The Rotatores Spince are found only in the dorsal region of the spine, beneath the Multifidus spina?; they are eleven in number on each side. Each muscle is small and somewhat quadrilateral in form; it arises from the upper and back part of the transverse process, and is inserted into the lower border and outer surface of the lamina of the vertebra above, the fibres extending as far inwards as the root of the spinous process. The first is found between the first and second dorsal; the last, between the eleventh and twelfth. Sometimes the number of these muscles is diminished by the absence of one or more from the upper or lower end. The Supraspinales consist of a series of fleshy bands, which lie on the spinous processes in the cervical region of the spine. The Interspinales are short muscular fasciculi, placed in pairs between the spinous processes of the contiguous vertebras. In the cervical region, they are most distinct, and consist of six pairs, the first being situated between the axis and third vertebra, and the last between the last cervical and the first dorsal. They are small narrow bundles, attached, above and below, to the apices of the spinous processes. In the dorsal region, they are found between the first and second vertebra?, and occasionally between the second and third ; and below, between the eleventh and twelfth. In the lumbar region, there are four pairs of these muscles in the intervals between the five lumbar vertebra?. There is also occasionally one in the interspinous space, between the last dorsal and first lumbar, and between the fifth lumbar and the sacrum. The Extensor Coccygis is a slender muscular fasciculus, occasionally present,