305 POSTERIOR FEMORAL REGION. e Gluteus medius, rotate the thigh outwards; the anterior fibres of the Gluteus edius and the Gluteus minimus rotate it inwards. The Gluteus maximus serves extend the femur, and the Gluteus medius and minimus draw it forwards. The luteus maximus is also a tensor of the fascia lata. Taking their fixed point om the femur, the Glutei muscles act upon the pelvis, supporting it and the whole unk upon the head of the femur, which is specially obvious in standing on ono tr< jn ordor to gain the erect posture after the effort of stooping, these muscles •aw the pelvis backwards, assisted by the Biceps, Semitendinosus, and Semi- embranosus muscles. The remaining muscles are powerful rotators of the thigh itward9. In the sitting posture, when the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis, their :tion as rotators ceases, and they become abductors, with the exception of the bturator externus, which still rotates the femur outwards. When the femur is ced, the Pyriformis and Obturator muscles serve to draw the pelvis forwards if has been inclined backwards, and assist in steadying it upon the head of the mur. Posterior Femoral Region. Biceps. Semitendinosus. Semimembranosus. Dissection (fig. 189). Make a vertical incision along the middle of the thigh, from the ■wer fold of the nates to about three inches below the back of the knee-joint, and there * <nnect it with a transverse incision, carried from the inner to the outer side of the leg. ' ake a third incision transversely at the junction of the middle with the lower third of the .igh. The integument having been removed from the back of the knee, and the boundaries ' the popliteal space examined, the removal of the integument from the remaining part of e thigh should be continued, when the fascia and muscles of this region will be exposed. The Biceps (fig. 190) is a large muscle, of considerable length, situated on the osterior and outer aspect of the thigh. It arises by two heads. One, the long ead, arises from an impression at the upper and back part of the tuberosity of the chium, by a tendon common to it and the Semitendinosus. The femoral, or short ead, arises from the outer lip of the linen a-spera, between the Adductor magnus ud Vastus externus, extending from a short distance below the insertion of the rluteus maximus, to within two inches of the outer condyle; it also arises from the xternal intermuscular septum; The fibres of the long head form a fusiform belly, 'hich, passing obliquely downwards and a little outwards, terminate in an aponeu- osis which covers the posterior surface of the muscle, and receives the fibres of the hort head ; this aponeurosis becomes gradually contracted into a tendon, which is •aserted into the outer side of the head of the fibula. At its insertion, the tendon ivides into two portions, which embrace the external lateral ligament of the ;nee-joint, a strong prolongation being sent forwards to the outer tuberosity of he tibia, which gives off an expansion to the fascia of the leg'. The tendon of his muscle forms the outer ham-string. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the Glutens maximus above, the iscia lata and integument in the rest of its extent. By its deep surface, with the Semimembranosus, Adductor magnus, and Vastus externus, the great sciatic nerve, : opliteal artery and vein, and near its insertion, with the external head of the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, the superior external articular artery, and the external opliteal nerve. The SeUiiendmosus. remarkable for the great length of its tendon, is situated! t the posterior and inner aspect of the thigh. It arises from the tuberosity of he ischium by a tendon common to it and the long head of the Biceps-; it also rises from an aponeurosis_which_connects the adjacent surfaces of the two muscles o the extent of about three inches after their origin. It forms a fusiform muscle, vhich, passing downwards and inwards, terminates a little below the middle of •he thigh in a long round tendon which lies along the inner side of the popliteal pace, then curves around the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and is inserted into he upper part of the inner surface of the shaft of that bone, nearly as far forwards is its anterior border. This tendon lies beneath the expansion of the Sartorius, md below that of the Gracilis, to which it is united. A tendinous intersection1 is lsually o bserved about the middle of the muscle. X