CXXV1 GENERAL ANATOMY. like it from tlie middle blastodermic layer. It is at first a mere cellular cord, and then represents a canal, the upper part of which is closed; the lower opens into the bladder. It lies internal and anterior to the duct of the Wolffian body. Up to this point no difference of sex is perceptible ; but from this stage, towards the commencement of the third month, the internal organs of the female and male begin to assume a different appearance. Female organs.—The genital gland, in its development into an ovary, becomes more lengthened and assumes an oblique position, by which characters it can be distinguished from the testicle, about the ninth or tenth week. The ovary is at first situated internal and anterior to the Wolffian body. As that body disappears the ovary descends towards the inguinal regions. It passes into the pelvis towards the end of foetal life. The ovules and Graafian follicles are derived from the genital gland, but according to His the stroma of the ovary is furnished by the Wolffian body. The Fallopian tube is formed by the portion of the duct of Muller, which lies above the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body. This duct is at first completely closed, and its closed extremity remains permanent, forming a small cystic body attached to the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube, and called the c hydatid of Morgagni.’ Below this, a cleft forms in the duct, and is developed into the fimbriated opening of the Fallopian tube. Below this portion of the duct of Muller, that body on either side, and the ducts of the Wolffian body, are united together in a structure called ‘ the genital cord,’ in which the two Mullerian ducts approach each other, lying side by side and finally coalescing to form the cavity of the vagina and uterus. This coalescence commences in the middle, corresponding to the body of the uterus. The upper parts of the Mullerian ducts in the genital cord constitute the cornua of the uterus, little developed in the human species. The only remains of the Wolffian body consist in a struc- ture (parovarium or organ of Rosenmiiller) which can usually be detected lying between the ovary and Fallopian tube, and consisting of a group of tubules converging to a single duct, which is sometimes of considerable size and runs for some distance in the broad ligament. About the fifth month an annular constriction marks the position of the neck of the uterus, and after the sixth month the walls of the uterus begin to thicken. The round ligament is derived from the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body, the superior ligament of the genital gland becomes the cord which attaches the ovary to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, the peritoneum constitutes the broad ligaments, the superior ligament of the Wolffian body disappears with that structure. Internal organs in the male.— i. The genital gland, in its development into a testicle, becomes rounded and thick, and is more vertical than the ovary is in its early state. The tubuli seminiferi are early visible, being at first short and straight, and then gradually assume a coiled arrangement. The tunica albuginea is formed about the third month. 2. The Mullerian ducts disappear in the male sex, with the exception of their lower ends. These unite in the middle line, and open by a common