373 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF BRACHIAL ARTERY. mat]0 qh the ri(rht, and some oil the left side ol the body, in ^>8(5 the aitciy bifurcated in its normal position. In one case only was the place of division lower than usual, being two or three inches below the elbow-joint. ‘ In 94 cases out of 481, or about one in 51, there were two arteries instead of one in some part, or in the whole ol the arm. There appears however, to be no correspondence between the arteries of the two arms, with respect to their irregular division ; for in sixty-one bodies it occurred on one side only in forty-three; on both sides, in different positions, in thirteen on both sides, in the samo position, in five. The point of bifurcation takes place at different parts of the arm, being most frequent 111 the upper part, less so in the lower part, and least so in the middle, the most usual point for the application of a ligature ; under any of these circumstances, two large arteries would be found in the arm instead of one. The most frequent (in three out of four) of these pecu- liarities is the high division of the radial. That artery often arises from the inner side of the brachial, and runs parallel with the main trunk to the elbow, where it crosses it, lying beneath the fascia; or it may perforate the fascia, and pass over the artery immediately beneath the integument. The ulnar sometimes arises from the brachial high up, and then occasionally leaves that vessel at the lower part of the arm, and descends towards the inner condyle. In the forearm, it generally lies beneath the deep fascia, superficial to the Flexor muscles; occasionally between the integument and deep fascia, and very rarely beneath the Flexor muscles. The interosseous artery sometimes arises from the upper part of the brachial or axillary : as it passes down the arm, it lies behind the main trunk, and, at the bend of the elbow, ; regains its usual positiou. In some cases of high division of the radial, the remaining trunk (ulner-interosseous) occa- • sionally passes, together with the median nerve, along the inner margin of the arm to the inner condyle, and then passing from within outwards, beneath or through the Pronator teres, •regains its usual position at the bend of the elbow. Occasionally, the two arteries representing the brachial are connected at the bend of the elbow by a short transverse branch, and are even sometimes reunited. Sometimes, long slender vessels, vasa aberrantia, connect the brachial or axillary arteries with one of the arteries of the forearm, or a branch from them. These vessels usually join the radial. Varieties in Muscular Relations* The brachial artery i3 occasionally concealed, in some part of its course, by muscular or tendinous slips derived from various sources. In the upper ' third of the arm, the brachial vessels and median nerve have been seen concealed to the • extent of three inches, by a muscular layer of considerable thickness, derived from the Coraco- brachialis, which passed round to the inner side of the vessel, and joined the internal head of t the Triceps. In the lower half of the arm the artery is occasionally concealed by a broad • thin head to the Biceps muscle. A narrow fleshy slip from the Biceps has been seen to cross the artery, concealing it for an inch and a half, its tendon ending in the aponeurosis covering the Pronator teres. A muscular and tendinous slip has been seen to arise from the external bicipital ridge by a long tendon, cross obliquely behind the long tendon of the Biceps, and end in a fleshy belly, which appears on the inner side of the arm between the Biceps and Coraco-brachialis, passes down along the inner edge of the former, and crosses the artery very obliquely, so as to lie in front of it for three inches, and, finally, gives rise to a narrow flattened tendon, which is inserted into the aponeurosis over the Pronator teres. A tendinous slip, arising from the deep part of the tendon of the Pectoralis major, has been - seen to cross the artery obliquely at or below the Coraco-brachialis, and join the intermuscular septum above the inner condyle. The Brachialis anticus not unfrequently projects at the outer side of the artery, and occasionally overlaps it, sending inwards, across the artery, an aponeurosis which binds the vessel down upon the Brachialis anticus. Sometimes, a fleshy slip from the muscle covers the vessel, in one case to the extent of three inches. In some cases of high origin of the Pronator teres, an aponeurosis extends from it to join the Brachialis anticus external to the artery; a kind of arch being thus formed under which the principal artery and median nerve pass, so as to be concealed for half an inch above the transverse level of the condyle. Surgical Anatomy. Compression of the brachial artery is required in cases of amputation and some other operations in the arm and forearm; and it will be observed, that it may be effected in almost any part of the course of the artery. If pressure is made in the upper part of the limb, it should be directed from within outwards, and if in the lower part, from before backwards, as the artery lies on the inner side of the humerus above, and in front of it below. The most favourable situation is near the insertion of the Coraco- brachialis. The application of a ligature to the brachial artery may bo required in cases of wounds of the \essel, and in some cases of wound of the palmar arch. It is also sometimes necessary in cases of aneurism ot the brachial, the radial, ulnar, or interosseous arteries. The artery may be secured in any part of its course. The chief guides in determining its position are the surface-markings produced by the inner margin of the Coraco-brachialis and Biceps, the known course ot the vessel, and its pulsation, which should be carefully felt for before mi}' operation See Struthers’s Anatomical and 1 hysiological Obtcrvaf ons.