SURGICAL ANATOMY OF INGUINAL HERNIA. 724 The fascia transversalis is a thin aponeurotic membrane, which lies between the inner surface of tho Transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. It forms part of the general layer of fascia which linos the interior of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and is directly continuous with the iliac and pelvic fasciae. In the inguinal region, the transversalis fascia is thick and dense in structure, and joined by fibres from the aponeurosis of the Transversalis; but it becomes thin and cellular as it ascends to the Diaphragm. Below, it has the following attachments : external to the femoral vessels, it is connected to the posterior margin of Poupart’s ligament, and is there continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the vessels it is thin, and attached to the pubes and pectineal line, behind the conjoined tendon, with which it is united ; and, corresponding to the point where the femoi'al vessels pass into the thigh, this fascia descends in front of them, forming tho anterior wall of the crural sheath. 387. -Inguinal Hernia, showing the Transversalis Muscle, the Transversalis Fascia, and the Internal Abdominal Ring. The internal abdominal ring is situated in the transversalis fascia, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes, an about half an inch above Poupart’s ligament. It is of an oval form, the extreme ties of the oval directed upwards and downwards, varies in size in different subjects, and is much larger in the male than in the female. It is bounded, above, by the arched fibres of the Transversalis muscle, and internally, by the epigastric vessels. It transmits the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, and from its circumference a thin, funnel-shaped membrane, tlf infundibuhform fascia, is continued round the cord and testis, enclosing them m a distinct pouch. When the sac of an oblique inguinal hernia passes through the internal ring, the infundibuliform process of tho transversalis fascia foi’ins ono 0 its coverings. Between the transversalis fascia and the peritoneum, is a quantity of loose areolar tissue. In some subjects it is nf considerable thickness, and loaded wit