PALPEBRAL REGION. 209 inner extremity of tlie eyebrow, beneath tbe Occipito-frontahs mid Oibicuitins palpebrarum muscles. It arises from the inner extremity of the superciliary ridge ; from whence its fibres pass upwards and outwards, to be inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis, opposite the middle of the orbital arch. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Occipito-frontalis and Orbicularis palpebrarum muscles. By its posterior surface, with the frontal bone and supra- trochlear nerve. The Ltvator Palpebrce will be described with the muscles of the orbital region. The Tensor Tarsi is a small thin muscle, about three lines in breadth and six in length, situated at the inner side of the orbit, behind the tendo oculi. It arises from the crest and adjacent part of the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and passing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slips, which cover the lachrymal canals, and are inserted into the tarsal cartilages near the puncta lachrymalia. Its fibres appear to be continuous with those of the palpebral portion of the Orbi- cularis ; it is occasionally very indistinct. Nerves. The Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, and Tensor tarsi are supplied by the facial nerve. Actions. The Orbicularis palpebrarum is the sphincter muscle of the eyelids. ’ The palpebral portion acts involuntarily in closing the lids, and independently of the orbicular portion, which is subject to the will. When the entire muscle is brought into action, the integument of the forehead, temple, and cheek is drawn inwards towards the inner angle of the eye, and the eyelids are firmly closed. The Levator palpebrce is the direct antagonist of this muscle ; it raises the upper t eyelid and exposes the globe. The Corrugator supercilii draws the eyebrow downwards and inwards, producing the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. This muscle may be regarded as the principal agent in the expression of grief. The 'Tensor tarsi draws the eyelids and the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards, ■.and compresses them against the surface of the globe of the eye ; thus placing them in the most favourable situation for receiving the tears. It serves, also, to com- press the lachrymal sac. ji 4. Orbital Region. (Fig. 149.) Levator Palpebrce. Rectus Internus. Rectus Superior. Rectus Externus. Rectus Inferior. Obliquus Superior. Obliquus Inferior. Dissection. To open the cavity of the orbit, remove the sk till-cap and brain; then saw hrough the frontal bone at the inner extremity of the supraorbital ridge, and externally at : ts junction with the malar. Break in pieces the thin roof of the orbit by a few slight blows if the hammer, and take it away ; drive forward the superciliary portion of the frontal bone iy a smart stroke, but do not remove it, as that would destroy the pulley of the Obliquus ‘Ulterior. When the fragments are cleared away, the periosteum of the orbit will be exposed; his being removed, together with the fat which fills the cavity of the orbit, the several nuscles of this region can be examined. The dissection will be facilitated by distending the ;lobe of the eye. In order to effect this, puncture the optid nferve near the eyeball, with a urved needle, and push the needle onwards into the globe; insert the point df a blow-pipe ! hrough this aperture, and force a little air into the cavity of the eyeball; then apply a ligature round the nerve, so as to prevent the air escaping. The globe being now drawn ■or wards, the muscles will be put upon the stretch. The Legator Palpebrce Superioris is thill, flat, and triartgiilar in shape. It !'irisds from the under surface of the lesser wing of the sphenoid, immediately in ront of the optic foramen; and is inserted, by a broad aponeurosis, into the upper lorddr of the stlpetior tarsal cartilage. At its origin, it is narrow and tendinous ; mt soon becomes broad and fleshy, and finally terminates ill a broad ajloneitrosis. Relations. By its upper surface, with the frontal nerve and artery, tile peri* istcum of the orbit; and, in front, with the iriner surface of the broad tarsal igament. By its under surface, with the Superior rectus ; and in the lid, with he conjunctiva. A si nail branch of the third nerve enters its under siirface. P