GENERAL ANATOMY. lxxxii tlie internal coats are divided in the track of the ligature and can easily be further dissected from the outer coat. The inner coat can be separated from the middle by a little maceration. The inner coat consists of—i. a layer of pavement-epithelium, the cells ol which are oval or fusiform, and have very distinct nuclei. 2. This epithelium rests upon a layer of longitudinal elastic fibres, in which, under the microscope, small elongated apertures are seen, and which was therefore called by Henle the fenestrated membrane. This layer is marked with numerous reticulations ; it is perfectly smooth when the artery is distended ; but when empty, presents longitudinal and transverse folds. The fenestrated membrane can often be separated into more than one layer. I11 arteries of less than a line in diameter, the internal coat consists of two layers, as above described; but in middle-sized arteries, several Pig;. XXXIY.—An artery from the mesentery of a child, •062and b, vein -067'", in dia- meter, treated with acetic acid and magnified 350 times, a, Tunica adventitia, with elongated nuclei. [3, Nuclei of the contractile fibre-cells of the tunica media, seen partly from the surface, partly apparent in transverse section, y, Nuclei of the epithelial cells, c Elastic longitudinal fibrous coat. lamelke, composed of elastic fibres and connective tissue, are interposed between the epithelial and elastic coats. In the largest arteries, the inner coat is usually much thickened, especially in the aorta; and consists of a homogeneous substance, occasionally striated or fibrillated, transversed by longitudinal elastic networks, which are very fine in the lamellae immediately beneath the epithelium, but increase in thickness from within outwards. The internal and middle coats are separated by either a dense elastic reticulated coat, or a true fenestrated membrane. The middle coat is distinguished from the inner b}^ its colour, and by the transverse arrangement of its fibres, in contradistinction to the longi- tudinal direction of those of the inner coat. In the largest arteries, this coat is of great thickness, of a yellow colour, and highly elastic ; it diminishes in thickness and becomes redder in colour as the arteries become smaller; becomes very thin, and finally disappears. In small arteries, this coat is purely muscular, consisting of muscular fibre-cells