PLEURiE. ^75 The Pleura. Each lung is invested, upon its external surface, by an exceedingly delicate erous membrane, the pleura, which encloses the organ as far as its root, and is hen reflected upon the inner surface of the thorax. The portion of tho serous uembrane investing the surface of the lung is called tho pleura pubnonalis 368.—A Transverse Section of the Thorax, showing the relative Position of the Viscera, and the Reflections of the Pleune. TRIANGULARIS STCRNi In temal Mam mart/ TTesae7s, Sl/ornum -Phrmir iVtrvr PIeuret Con l uli Td tc Ale d Ldr 'n t i 11 ttwi p\dmontTfi 'o&al ycr 'Vena, A.. ^ &'ympalhetio Afoi've I Thoracic Duct yfrd/i ttfrtinum 'sceral layer of pleura); whilst that which lines the inner surface of the chest ailed the pleura costalis (parietal layer of pleura). The interspace or cavity i'ween these two layers is called the cavity of the pleura. Each pleura is there- 1 ) a shut sac, one occupying the right, the other the left half of the thorax ; and I y are perfectly separate, not communicating with each other. The two pleurae I not meet in the middle line of the chest, excepting at one point in front; an rspace being left between them, which contains all the viscera of the thorax apting the lungs : this is the mediastinum. I -eflectiom of the pleura (fig. 368). Commencing at the sternum, the pleura passes I wards, covers the costal cartilages, the inner surface of the ribs and Intercostal | scles, and at the back of the thorax passes over the thoracic ganglia and their I iches, and is reflected upon the sides of the bodies of the vertebraa, where it is irated by a narrow interspace from the opposite pleura, the posterior medias- Im. Irom the vertebral column the pleura passes to tho side of the peri- I Tli lt C°VerS t0 a slight extenti {t ^on covers the back part of the - ot the lung, from the lower border of which a triangular fold descends verti- I y by the side of the posterior mediastinum to the Diaphragm. This fold is tho II igamen o the lung, the ligamentum latum pulmonis, and serves to retain I ower pat o t at organ in position. From the root, the pleura may be traced x x 2