662 THE THORAX. before entering tlie inferior cava; lienee the large size of this organ, especially at an early period of foetal lifo. 3. That the right auricle is the point of meeting of a double current, the blood in the inferior cava being guided by the Eustachian valve into the left auricle, whilst that in the superior cava descends into the right ventricle. At an early period of footal life, it is highly probable that the two sti'earns are quite distinct; for the inferior cava opens almost directly into the left auricle, and the Eusta- chian valve would exclude the current along the vein from entering the right ventricle. At a later period, as the separation between the two auricles becomes more distinct, it seems probable that some mixture of the two streams must take place. 4. The blood carried from the placenta to the foetus by the umbilical vein, mixed with the blood from the inferior cava, passes almost directly to the arch of the aorta, and is distributed by the branches of that vessel to the head and upper extremities : hence the large size and perfect development of those parts at birth. 5. The blood contained in the descending aorta, chiefly derived from that which has already circulated through the head and limbs, together with a small quantity from the left ventricle, is distributed to the lower extremities : hence the small size and imperfect development of these parts at birth. Changes in the Vascular System at Bcrth. At birth, when respiration is established, an increased amount of blood from the pulmonary artery passes through the lungs, which now perform their office as respiratory organs, and, at the same time, the placental circulation is cut off. The foramen ovale becomes gradually closed-in by about the tenth day after birth ; a valvular fold rises up on the left side of its margin, and ultimately above its upper part; this valve becomes adherent to the margins of the foramen for the greater part of its circumference, but, above, a valvular opening is left between the two auricles, which sometimes remains persistent. The ductus arteriosus begins to contract immediately after respiration is estab- lished, becomes completely closed from the fourth to the tenth day, and ultimately degenerates into an impervious cord, which serves to connect the left pulmonary artery to the concavity of the arch of the aorta. Of the umbilical or hypogastric arteries, the portion continued on to the bladder from the trunk of the corresponding internal iliac remains pervious, as the superior vesical artery ; and the part between the fundus of the bladder and the umbilicus becomes obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and forms the anterior true ligament of the bladder. The umbilical vein and ductus venosus become completely obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and ultimately dwindle to fibrous cords; the former becoming the round ligament of the liver, the latter, the fibrous cord, which, in the adult, may be traced along the fissure of the ductus venosus.