DIAPHRAGM. 257 P fl1P muscular slip from the ensiform appendix and the cartilages of the adjoining f,th® fiV ‘ . tL Diaphragm are deficient, the interval being filled by areolar Covered on the thoracic side by the ploar® ; on the abdominal, by the porito- eum This is, consequently, a weak point, and a port,on of the contents of the ■Women may protrude into the chest, forming phreme or diaphragmatic hernia or collection of pus in the mediastinum may descend through it, so as to point at the menium arcucdum internum is a tendinous arch, thrown across the oner part of the Psoas magnus muscle, on each side of the spine. It is connected c one end, to the outer side of the body of the first, and occasionally the second unbar vertebra, being continuous with the outer side of the tendon of the orresponding crus; and, by the other end, to the front of the transverse process f the second lumbar vertebra. . , . The liqamentum arcuatum externum is the thickened upper margin of the anterior , amelia of the transversalis fascia ; it arches across the upper part of the Quadratus imborum being attached, by one extremity, to the front of the transverse process f the second lumbar vertebra; and, by the other, to the apex and lower margin f the last rib. . , , To the spine, the Diaphragm is connected by two crura, which are situated on ihe bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, one on each side of the aorta. The crura, at ■heir origin, are tendinous in structure ; the right crus, larger and longer than the arising from the anterior surface of the bodies and intervertebral substances fthe second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebra?; the left, from the second and hird ; both blending with the anterior common ligament of the spine. A tendinous rch is thrown across the front of the vertebral column, from the tendon of one rus to that of the other, beneath which passes the aorta, vena azygos major, and horacic duct. The tendons terminate in two large fleshy bellies, which, with the endinons portions above alluded to, are called the crura, or pillars of the dia- phragm. The outer fasciculi of the two crura are directed upwards and outwards o the central tendon ; but the inner fasciculi decussate in front of the aorta, and hen diverge, so as to surround the oesophagus before ending in the central tendon. Che anterior and larger of these fasciculi is formed by the right crus. The Central or Cordiform Tendon of the Diaphragm is a thin tendinous, apo- lenrosis, situated at the centre of the vault formed by the muscle, immediately leneath the pericardium, with which its circumference is blended. It is shaped somewhat like a trefoil leaf, consisting of three divisions, or leaflets, separated from me another by slight indentations. The right leaflet is the largest; the middle me, directed towards the ensiform cartilage, the next in size; and the left, the smallest. In structure, the tendon is composed of several planes of fibres, which ntersect one another at various angles, and unite into straight or curved bundles in arrangement which affords it additional strength. The Openings connected with the Diaphragm are three large and several smaller apertures. The former are the aortic, the oesophageal, and the opening cor the vena cava. The aortic opening is the lowest and the most posterior of the three large aper- tures connected with this muscle. It is situated in the middle line, immediately in front of the bodies of the vertebra?; and is, therefore, behind the Diaphragm, not in it. It is an osseo-aponeurotic aperture, formed by a tendinous arch thrown across the front of the bodies of the vertebra?, from the crus on one side to that on the other, and transmits the aorta, vena azygos major, thoracic duct, and occa- sionally the left sympathetic nerve. The cesophageal opening, elliptical in form, muscular in structure, and formed by the two crura, is placed above, and, at the same time, anterior, and a little to tho left of the preceding. It transmits the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. The anterior margin of this aperture is occasionally tendinous, being formed by the margin of the central tendon. The opening for the vena cava is the highest; it is quadrilateral in form, ten- S