XC1X SEROUS AND MUCOUS MEMBRANE. SEROUS, SYNOVIAL AND MUCOUS MEMBRANES. These membranes consist of a layer of epithelium supported on a struc- tureless membrane, called the basement membrane, beneath which lies a tract of connective or areolar tissue, which in the mucous membranes lodges glands of various kinds, and contains unstriped muscle, or contrac- tile muscular fibre-cells, and in both serous and mucous membranes con- veys the blood-vessels out of which the secretion is to be eliminated. The serous membranes are the simplest of the three, and will therefore be first described. They form shut sacs, sometimes arranged quite simply, as the tunica vaginalis testis, at others with numerous involutions and recesses, as the peritoneum, but which can always be traced continuously around the whole circumference. The sac is completely closed, so that no communi- cation exists between the serous cavity and the parts in its neighbourhood. An apparent exception exists in the peritoneum of the female; for the Eallopian tube opens freely into the peritoneal cavity in the dead subject, so that a bristle can be passed from the one into the other. But this communication is closed during life, except at the moment of the passage of the ovum out of the ovary into the tube, as is proved by the fact that no interchange of fluids ever takes place between the two cavities in dropsy of the peritoneum, or in accumulation of fluid in the Fallopian tubes. The serous membrane is often supported by a firm fibrous layer, as is the case with the pericardium, and such membranes are sometime spoken of as £ fibro-serous.’ In the parietal portion of the arachnoid there is, according to many anatomists, no serous membrane in the proper sense of the term; but the dura mater is merely lined with a layer of epithe- lium, the basement-membrane being here indistinguishable. In other situations, the following parts may be recognised as constituting a serous membrane: —i. The epithelium, a single layer of polygonal or pavement- epithelial cells. 2. A structureless basement-membrane. 3. The connec- tive tissue and vessels which support the latter, connect it with the parts below, and supply blood to its deep surface. Some of the serous portion of the blood is secreted, or transudes, through the basement-membrane to furnish the special secretion. This latter is, in most cases, only in suffi- cient quantity to moisten the membrane, but not to furnish any appreciable quantity of fluid. When a small quantity can be collected, it appears to resemble in many respects the lymph, and like that fluid coagulates spontaneously, but when secreted in large quantities, as in dropsy, it is a watery fluid containing usually sufficient albumen to gelatinise with heat.* The mucous membranes are more complex in their structure than the serous. Their epithelium is of various forms, including the spheroidal, columnar and ciliated, and is often arranged in several layers (see Fig. XLII.). This epithelial layer is supported by the corium, which is * The resemblance between lymph and serum led llewson to the belief that the serous cavities are sacs into which the lymphatics open. f 2