118 THE SKELETON. To the spine, tho Gemellus superior, Levator ani, and Coccygeus. To the tuberosity, the Biceps, Seini-tondinosus, Semi-membranosus, Quadratus femoris, Adductor magnus, Gemellus inferior, Trans versus perinei, Erector penis. To the pubes, the Obliquus externus, Obliquus internus, Transversal is, Rectus, Pyramida- lis, Psoas parvus, Pectineus, Adductor longus, Adductor brevis, Gracilis, Obtu- rator externus and internus, Levator ani, Compressor urethrae, and occasionally a few fibres of the Accelerator uriuae. 99.—Plan of the Development of the Os Innominatum. Jly 8 Can ires <i Primary (Hiitrn/.Is c hi u m,k Pules) 5. Secondary rihe 3 Primary can ires suniip through, YiShaJiccl filedjabout full :’fif JZjoijfhyscs ajyjoar about jj ah o-rlij , fy; unite about 2,5^ year #The Pelvis (figs, ioo, toi). The Pelvis, so called from its resemblance to a basin, is stronger and more massively constructed than either the cranial or thoracic cavity ; it is a bony ring, interposed between the loWer end of the spine, which it supports, and the lower extremities, upon which it rests. It is composed of four bones : the two ossa innominata, which bound it On either side and in front; and the sacrum and coccyx, which complete it behind. The pelvis is divided by a prominent line, the linea ilio-pectinea, into the false and true pelvis. The false pelvis is all that expanded portion of the pelvic cavity which is situated above the linea ilio-pectinea. It is bounded on each side by the ossa ilii; in front it is incomplete, presenting a wide interval between the spinous processes of the ilia on either side, which is filled up in the recent state by the parietes of the abdomen; behind, in the middle line, is a deep notch. This broad shallow cavity is fitted to support the intestines, and to transmit part of their weight to the anterior wall of the abdomen. The true pelvis is all that part of the pelvic cavity which is situated beneath the linea ilio-pectinea. It is smaller than the false pelvis, but its walls are more