THE SKELETON. 34 {structure. The squamous portion is liko that of tho other cranial bones, the mastoid portion cellular, and the petrous portion dense and hard. Development (fig. 33). Tho temporal bone is developed by four centres, exclusive of those for the internal ear and tho ossicula, viz. :—one for the squamous portion including the zy- goma, one for the petrous and mastoid parts, one for the styloid, and one for the auditory process (tympanic bone). The first traces of the development of this bone appear in the squamous por- „ u a tion, about the time when osseous POTlcon d 33-—Development of the Temporal Bone. By four Centres. 1 far Sqiuvinou.s Zygoma.. 2& mo. L for Auditory jjroaess i for Petrous Muotuul portions matter is deposited in the vertebrae; the auditory process succeeds next; it consists of a curved piece of bone, forming about three-fourths of a cir- cle, the deficiency being above; it is grooved along its concave surface for the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes united by its extremities to the squamous portion during the last months of intra- uterine life. The petrous and mastoid portions then become ossified, and lastly the styloid process, which re- mains separate a considerable period, and is occasionally never united to the l for StyloLU pmc. rest of the bone. At birth, the tem- poral bone, excluding the styloid process, is formed of three pieces—the squamous and zygomatic, the petrous and mastoid, and the auditory. The auditory process joins with the squamous about the time of birth. The petrous and mastoid join with the squamous during the first year and the styloid process becomes united between the second and third years. The subsequent changes in this bone are, that the auditory process extends outwards, so as to form the meatus audito- rius ; the glenoid fossa becomes deeper ; and the mastoid part, which at an eariy period of life is quite flat, enlarges from the development of the cellular cavities in its interior. Articulations. With five bones—occipital, parietal, sphenoid, inferior maxillary, and malar. Attachment of Muscles. To the squamous portion, the Temporal; to the zygoma, the Masseter; to the mastoid portion, the Occipito-frontalis, Sterno-mastoid, Splenius capitis, Trachelo-mastoid, Digastricus, and Retrahens aurem; to the styloid process, the Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo-hyoideus, and Stylo-glossus ; and to the petrous portion, the Levator palati, Tensor tympani, and Stapedius. The Sphenoid Bone. The Sphenoid bone {trephr, a wedge) is situated at the anterior part of the base of the skull, articulating with all the other cranial bones, which it binds, firmly and solidly together. In its form it somewhat resembles a bat, with its wings extended; and is divided into a central portion or body, two greater and two lesser wings extending outwards on each side of the body ; and two processes, the ptery- goid processes, which project from it below. The Body is of large size, quadrilateral in form, and hollowed out in its interior so as to form a mere shell of bone. It presents for examination four surfaces— a superior, an inferior, an anterior, and a posterior. The superior surface (fig. 34). In front is seen a prominent spine, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the ethmoid; behind this a smooth sur-