SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. 5“ nerv s posterior ethmoidal cells, a few being prolonged to the upper and back part of the septum. # £) u j The naso-palatino nerve (Ootunnius) enters the nasal fossa with the other nasal T * .jrves, and passes inwards across the roof of the nose, below the orifice of the t phenoidal sinus, to reach the septum ; it then runs obliquely downwards and for- l"'“^ wards along the lower part of the septum, to the anterior palatine foramen, lying between the periosteum and mucous membrane. It descends to the roof of the mouth by a distinct canal, which opens below in tho anterior palatine fossa; the right nerve, also in a separate canal, being posterior to the loft one. In the mouth, they become united, supply the mucous membrane behind the incisor teeth, and join with the anterior palatine nerve. The naso-palatine nerve occasionaly fur- nishes a few small filaments to the mucous membrane of the septum. r. .l_The yosJ/irior branches are the Vidian and pharyngeal (pterygo-palatine). The Vidian nerve, if traced from Meckel’s ganglion, may be said to arise from the back part of the spheno-palatine ganglion, and then passes through the Vidian ^ canal, enters the cartilage filling in the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and divides into two branches, the large petrosal, and the carotid. In its course along tho /Median canal, it distributes a few filaments to the lining membrane at the back part of the roof of the nose and septum, and that covering the end of the Eustachian tube. These arc upper posterior nasal branches. The large petrosal branch (nervus petrosus superficialis major') enters tho cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, having pierced the cartilaginous sub- stance which fills in this aperture. It runs beneath the Casscrian ganglion and dura mater contained in a groove in the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, enters the hiatus Fallopii, and, being continued through it into the aquceductus Fallopii, joins the gangliform enlargement on the facial nerve. Properly speaking, this nerve passes from the facial to the spheno-palatine ganglion, forming its motor root. The carotid branch is shorter, but larger than the petrosal, of a reddish-grey