337 external carotid. ;nea, npuu« y* Ap eternal To tie this vessel near its origin, C AC aches ^ven off from tl ;te incision about three inches in length should he ere it is crossed by tbe Qtproo mastoid from the angle of the jaw to the cricoid de along the margin of Smon carotid. To tie the vessel above the •tilage, as in the operation o o incision should he. made from the lobe of erastric, between it an t ie^paro q -j dividing successively the skin, Platysma, and i ear to the great cornu of ^he os^ h| o.de:t’he Dig^tric and Stylo-hyoid muscles which cia. By separating the pos A th parotid gland, the vessel will be exposed, : seen at the lower part ^ b ^ re.established by the free d a ligature may be applied • brancbes of the artery (facial, lingual, superior mmunication bet’ween m<of the I,£<the opposite side, and by the free yroid, occipital) ihe oceipita! with anches of the subclavian, etc. Branches. The external carotid artery gives off eight branches, which for con- .nience of description, may be divided into four sets. (See g. 20 , an ranches.) Anterior. Posterior. Ascending. Terminal. Superior Thyroid. Occipital. Ascending Pha- Temporal Lingual. Posterior Auricular. ryngeal. Internal Maxillary. Eacial. The student is here reminded that many variations are met with in the number, “uise of these branches in different subjects ; but the above arrange- '“‘eS"t-An* (figs. 207 and is the first branch gwen ff from the external carotid, being derived from that vessel just below the grea f hvoid bone At its commencement, it is quite superficial, being ZAyL^egnZt, fascia, and Platysma. and is contained in the tr.an- X space bounded by the Sterno-mastoid, Digastric, and Omo-hyo.d muscles cf er running upwards and inwards for a short distance, rt curves downwards and " in an arched and tortuous manner to the upper part of the thyroid gland .assinv beneath the Omo-hyoid, Sterno-hyoid, and Sterno-thyroid muscles , an listributes numerous branches to the anterior surface of the gland, anastomosing vith its fellow of the opposite side, and with the inferior thyroid arteries. Besic cs he arteries distributed to the muscles and the substance of the gland, the branches if the superior thyroid are the following . „ . Superior Laryngeal. Superficial descending branch (Sterno-mastoid). Crico-Tliyroid. The hvoid is a small branch which runs along the lower border of the os hvoides, beneath the thyro-hyoid muscle; after supplying the muscles connected to that bone, it forms an arch, by anastomosing with the vessel of the opposite ,ldThe superficial descending branch runs downwards and outwards across the sheath of the common carotid artery, and supplies the Sterno-mastoid and neigh- bouring muscles and integument. It is of importance that the situation of this vessel be rernemb ered, in the operation for tying the common caro id artery. There is often a distinct branch from the external carotid distributed to the Sterno- mastoid muscle. _. *. ,-1 . The superior laryngeal, larger than either of the preceding, accompanies the superior laryngeal nerve, beneath the Thyro-hyoid muscle; it- picicts tic ')10 hyoid membrane, and supplies the muscles, mucous membrane, ant g ant s o ie larynx and epiglottis, anastomosing with the branch from the opposite site. The crico-ihyroid (inferior laryngeal) is a small branch which runs trans\cise) across the crico-thyroid membrane, communicating with the alter) ol the op] os1 c side. The position of this vessel should be remembered, ns it may pi» t lu soui tc of troublesome haemorrhage during the operation of laryngotomy. Z