273 ANTERIOR BRACHIAL REGION. I and wrist joint. By its outer bonier, with the Pronator radii teres, and the radial vessels. By its inner border, with the Palmaris longus above, and the median nerve below. Mr. J. Wood describes ft muscle occasionally found (6 times in 70 subjects) beneath the Flexor carpi radialis, and which be has named the Flexor carpi radialis brevis vel profundus, lu the best marked specimen it arose from the outer side of the front surface of the radius, above the Pronator quadratus, and below the Flexor longus pollicis, and was inserted into the base of the middle metacarpal bone and os magnum : but several variations are described, both in its origin and insertion. Mr. Norton has also found an instance of a similar muscle attached to the middle metacarpal bone. Journ. of An at. and Phys. Nov. 1866, p. 55. The Palmaris Longus is a slender, fusiform muscle, lying on the inner side of the preceding. It arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendom from the deep fascia, and the intermuscular septa, between it and the adjacent muscles. It terminates in a slender fattened tendon, which is inserted into the annular ligament, expanding to the end in the palmar fascia. Variations. This muscle is often absent; when present, it presents many varieties. Its Heshv belly is sometimes very long, or may occupy the middle of the muscle, which is tendinous at either extremity; or the Palmaris may be muscular at its lower extremity, its upper part being tendinous. Occasionally, there is a second PalmarisTongus placed on the inner side of the preceding, terminating, below, partly in the annular ligament or fascia, and partly in the small muscles of the little finger. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia. By its posterior surface, with the Flexor digitorum sublimis. Internally, with the Flexor carpi ulnaris. Externally, with the Flexor carpi radialis. The median nerve lies close to the tendon, just above the wrist, on its inner and posterior side. The Flexor Carpi Ulnaris lies along the ulnar side of the forearm. It arises by two heads, separated by a tendinous arch, beneath which passes the ulnar nerve, and posterior ulnar recurrent artery. One head arises from the inner condyle of the humerus by the common tendon; the other, from the inner margin of the < olecranon, by an apoiieurosis from tHe upper two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna~ aud from the intermuscular septum between it and the Flexor sublimis digitoimm. The fibres terminate in a tendon, which occupies the anterior part of the lower half of the muscle, and is inserted into the pisiform bone, some fibres being prolonged to the annular ligament and base ofthe metacarpal bone of the little finger. The ulnar artery lies on the outer side of the tendon of this muscle, in the lower two-thirds of the forearm ; the tendon forming a guide in ' tying the vessel in this situation. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the deep fascia, with which it is intimately connected for a considerable extent. By its posterior surface, with the Flexor sublimis, the Flexor profundus, the Pronator quadratus, and the ulnar vessels and nerve. By its outer or radial border with the Palmaris longus above, and the ulnar vessels and nerve below. The Flexor Digitorvm Sublimis (perforatus) is placed beneath the preceding muscles, which therefore must be removed in order to bring its attachment into view. It is the largest of the muscles of the superficial layer, and arises by three heads. One head arises from the internal condyle of the humerus by the common tendon, from the internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint, and from the inter- muscular septum common to it and the preceding muscles. The second head arises from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna, above the ttlnal’ origin of the Pronator radii teres (fig. 90). The third head arises from the oblique line_o£-the radius, extending from the tubercle to the insertion of the Pronator radii tfd'TT f^ie fibres pass vertically downwards, forming a broad and thick muscle, which divides into four tendons about the middle of the forearm ; as these tendons pass beneath the annular ligament into the palm of the hand, they are arranged iii pairs, the anterior pair coi’rcsponding to the middle and ring finger's; tho posterior pair to the index and little fingers. The tendons diverge from one another as they pass onwards, and arc finally inserted into the lateral margins of the second phalanges, about tlieir centre. Opposite the base of the first phalanges, each T