Ixxvii TI1E NERVES. others regard as merely a bending of the libre where it becomes lost to sio-ht, or a spot where it is lost sight of in consequence of the power used being too low, or from difficulty in focussing. These ultimate fibres, it should be remembered, are structureless, and can therefore only be recognised positively as nervous by their continuity with a nerve of more complex structure. In the papillae of the skin, or mucous membrane, and on the surface of various membranes (conjunctiva, mesentery, &c.), three different kinds of terminal organs have been found connected with the nerves, viz, the end- bulbs of Krause, the tactile corpuscles of Rudoph Wagner, and the Pacinian corpuscles. The end-bulbs of Krause are small capsules of connective tissue, in which nuclei can be detected by reagents, and in which one or more nerve-fibrils terminate either in a coiled plexiform mass or in a bulbous extremity. They have been described as occurring in the conjunctiva, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the surface of the glans penis and glans clitoridis.* The tactile corpuscles of Wagner ((Fig. XXX.) are described by him as oval-shaped bodies, made up of superimposed saccular laminse, presenting some resemblance to a miniature fir-cone, and he regarded them as directly concerned in the sense of touch. Kolliker considers that the central part of the papillae generally consists of a connective tissue more homogeneous than that of the outer part, surrounded by a sort of sheath of elastic fibres, and he believes that these corpuscles are merely a variety of this structure. The nerve-fibres, according to this observer, runup in a waving course to the corpuscle, not penetrating it, but forming two or three coils round it, and finally join together in loops. These bodies are not found in all the papillae ; but, from their existence in those parts in which the skin is highly sensitive, it is probable that they are specially concerned in the sense of touch, though their absence from the papillae of other tactile parts shows that they are not essential to this sense. The Pacinian corpuscles f (Fig. XXXI.) are found in the human subject chiefly on the nerves of the fingers and toes, lying in the subcutaneous cellular tissue : but they have also been described by Rauber as connected with the nerves of the joints, and with the nerves lying between many of the muscles of the trunk and limbs. Each of these corpuscles is attached to and encloses the termination of a single nerve. The corpuscle, which is perfectly visible to the naked eye (and which can be most easily demonstrated in the mesentery of a cat), consists of a number of concentric layers of cellular tissue, between which Todd and Bowman have figured capillary vessels as running. The nerve, at its entrance into this body, parts with its white sub- stance, and the axis-cylinder runs forwards in a kind of cavity in the centre of the corpuscle to terminate in a rounded end or knob, sometimes bifur- cating previously, in which case each branch has a similar termination. Grandry, who has examined these corpuscles with very high magnifying powers, describes the axis-cylinder as exhibiting a very well marked fibrillar structure, and the bulbous end as consisting of a mass of granules into which the fibrils run, diverging as they approach it. The investing Krause, Die terminalen JuirjM'chen, i860. Anaiomisclic Untersvchunyon, 1861. t Often called in German anatomical works ‘corpuscles of Vuter.’