ARTICULATIONS. 184 Ilio Palmar Ligaments have a somewhat similar arrangement on the palmar surface, with the exception of the third metacarpal, which has three ligaments, an external one Irom the trapezium, situated above the sheath of the tendon of the Moxor carpi radial is; a middle one, from the os magnum ; and an internal one, from the unciform. I lie Interosseous Ligaments consist of short thick fibres, which are limited to one part ol the carpo-metacarpal articulation ; they connect the contiguous inferior angles of the os magnum and unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth metacarpal b nes. The Sgnovial Membrane is a continuation of that between the two rows of carpal bones. Occasionally, the articulation of the unciform with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones has a separate synovial membrane. The Synovial Membranes of the wrist (fig. 136) are thus seen to be five in 136.—Vertical Section through the Articulations at the Wrist, showing the Five Synovial Membranes. number. The first, the membrana sacciformis, lines the lower end of the ulna, the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and upper surface of the triangular interarticular fibro-cartiiage. The second lines the lower end of the radius and interarticular fibro-cartilage above, and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones below. The third, the most extensive, covers the contiguous surfaces of the two rows of carpal bones, and, passing between the bones of the second row, lines the carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones. The fourth lines the adjacent surfaces of the trapezium and metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fifth lines the adjacent surfaces of the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Actions. The movement permitted in the carpo-metacarpal articulations is limited to a slight gliding of the articular surfaces upon each other, the extent of which varies in the different joints. Thus the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium is most moveable, then the fifth metacarpal, and then the fourth. The second and third are almost immoveable. In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium, the movements permitted arc flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction.