7i5 APPENDAGES OF THE UTERUS. They are oval-shaped bodies, of an elongated form, flattened from above down- wards, situated one on each side of the uterus, in the posterior part of the broad igament behind and below the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary is connected, by its anterior margin, to the broad ligament; by its inner extremity to the uterus by a oroper ligament, the ligament of the ovary ; and by its outer end to the fimbriated 382.—The Uterus and its Appendages. Anterior View. xtremity of the Fallopian tube by a short ligamentous cord. The ovaries are of whitish colour, and present either a smooth or puckered uneven surface. They re each about an inch and a half in length, three-quarters of an inch in width, nd about a third of an inch thick ; and weigh from one to two drachms. The urfaces and posterior convex border are free, the anterior straight border being •..ttached to the broad ligament. Structure. The ovary is invested by peritoneum, excepting along its anterior ttached margin; beneath this, is the proper fibrous covering of the organ, the vxnica albuginea, which is extremely dense and firm in structure, and encloses .. peculiar soft fibrous tissue, or stroma, . bundantly supplied with blood-vessels fig. 383). Imbedded in the meshes of his tissue are numerous small, round, ransparent vesicles, in various’ stages of levelopment; they are the Graafian vesicles, the ovisacs containing the ova. "n women who have not borne children, hey vary in number from ten to fifteen or twenty; and in size from a pin’s lead to a pea; but Dr. Martin Barry ,ias shown, that a large number of micro- scopic ovisacs exist in the parenchyma if the organ, few of which produce ova iThese vesicles have thin, transparent '.vails, and are filled with a clear colour- less, albuminous fluid. The Graafian vesicles are, during their early development, small, and deeply > seated in the substance of the ovary ; as an the exterior of the ovary beneath flic : peritoneum. Each vesicle consists of an they enlarge, they approach the surface ; and, when mature, form small projections 383.—Section of the Ovary of a Virgin, Showing the Stroma and Graafian Vesicles. .384.—Section of the Graafian Vesicle. After Von Baer.