COVERINGS OF TESTIS. 701 ipass with the spermatic cord, and, emerging at the external abdominal ring, they descend into the scrotum, becoming invested in their course by numerous coverings derived from tho serous, muscular, and fibrous layers of the abdominal parietes, as well as by the scrotum. The coverings of the testis are, the } Scrotum. Skin Dartos Intercolumnar, or External spermatic fascia. Cremaster muscle. Infundibuliform, or Fascia propria (Intornal spermatic fascia). Tunica vaginalis. The Scrotum is a cutaneous pouch, which contains the testes and part of the • spermatic cords. It is divided into two lateral halves, by a median line, or raphe, which is continued forwards to the under surface of the penis, and backwards .along the middle line of the perinasum to the anus. Of these two lateral portions, ■ the left is longer than the right, and corresponds with the greater length of the -spermatic cord on the left side. Its external aspect varies under different cir- cumstances: thus, under the influence of warmth, and in old and debilitated ;persons, it becomes elongated and flaccid ; but, under the influence of cold, and iin the young and robust, it. is short, corrugated, and closely applied to the testes. The scrotum consists of two layers, the integument and the dartos. The integument is very thin, of a brownish colour, and generally thrown into •.folds or rugae. It is provided with sebaceous follicles, the secretion of which has a peculiar odour, and is beset with thinly scattered, crisp hairs, the roots of which ;are seen through the skin. The dartos is a thin layer of loose reddish tissue, endowed with contractility ; it forms the proper tunic of the scrotum, is continuous, around the base of the scrotum, with the superficial fascia of the groin, perinoeum, and inner side of the tthighs, and sends inwards a distinct septum, septum scroti, which divides it into t :wo cavities for the two testes, the septum extending between the raphe and the nnder surface of the penis, as far as its root. The dartos is closely united to the skin externally, but connected with the sub- j acent parts by delicate areolar tissue, upon which it glides with the greatest f ’acility. The dartos is very vascular, and consists of a loose areolar tissue, con- t ainiug unstriped muscular fibre. Its contractility is slow, and excited by cold iind mechanical stimuli, but not by electricity. The intercolumnar fascia is a thin membrane, derived from the margin of the pillars of the external abdominal ring, during the descent of the testis in the foetus, being prolonged downwards around the surface of the cord and testis. It i s sepai-ated from the dartos by loose areolar tissue, which allows of considerable 1 novement of the latter upon it, but is intimately connected with the succeeding ayer. The cremasteric fascia consists of scattered bundles of muscular fibres (Cre- master muscle), derived from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, luring the descent of the testis (p. 723). The fascia propria is a thin membranous layer, which loosely invests the urfaoe of the cord. It is a continuation downwards of the infundibuliform pro- 'es3 of the fascia transversalis, and is also derived during the descent of the testis a the foetus. The tunica- vaginalis is described with the proper coverings of the testis. A ■ aore detailed account of the other coverings of tho testis will be found in the ioscription of the surgical anatomy of inguinal hernia. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the coverings of the testis arc : tho .nperficial and deep external pudic, from the femoral; tho superficial perinceal branch of the internal pudic ; and the cremasteric branch from the epigastric, .lie veins follow the course of the corresponding arteries. The b/mphatics erminate in the inguiuai glands. The nerves are: the ilio-inguinal and ilio,