The Surgical Anatomy of Inguinal Hernia. Dissection (fig. 385). For dissection of the parts concerned in inguinal hernia, a male subject, free from fat, should always be selected. The body should be placed in the supine position, the abdomen and pelvis raised by means of blocks placed beneath them, and the lower extremities rotated outwards, so as to make the parts as tense as possible. If the abdominal walls are flaccid, the cavity of the abdomen should be inflated by an aperture through the umbilicus. An incision should be made along the middle line, from the um- bilicus to the pubes, and continued along the front of the scrotum ; and a second incision, from the anterior superior spine of the ilium to just below the umbilicus. These incisions '■ should divide the integument; and the triangular shaped flap included between them should be reflected downwards and outwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial fascia in this region consists of two layers, between whicli are found the superficial vessels and nerves, and the inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial layer is thick, areolar in texture, containing adipose tissue in its meshes, the quantity of which varies in different subjects. Below, it passes over Poupart’s ligament, and is continuous with the outer layer of the superficial fascia of the thigh. This fascia is continued as a tubular prolongation around the outer surface of the cord and testis. In this situation, it changes its charac- ter ; it becomes tbin, destitute of adipose tissue, and of a pale reddish colour, and assists in forming the dartos. Prom the scrotum, it may be traced backwards to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the perinseum. This layer should be removed, by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions, and reflecting it downwards and outwards, when the following vessels and nerves will be exposed :— The superfical epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and external pudic ves- sels ; the terminal filaments of the ilio-hyp.ogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves ; and the upper chain of inguinal lymphatic glands. The superficial epigastric artery crosses Ponpart’s ligament, and ascends ob- liquely towards the umbilicus, lying midway between the spine of the ilium and the pubes. It supplies the integument, and anastomoses with the deep epigastric. This vessel is a branch of the common femoral artery, and pierces the fascia lata, below Poupart’s ligament. Its accompanying vein empties itself into the internal saphenous, after having pierced the cribriform fascia. The superficial circumflex iliac artery passes outwards towards the crest of the ilium. The superficial external pudic artery passes transversely inwards across the spermatic cord, and supplies the integument of the hypogastric region, and of the penis and scrotum. This vessel is usually divided in the first incision made in the operation for inguinal hernia, and occasionally requires the application of a ligature. The veins accompanying these superficial vessels are usually much larger than the arteries: they terminate in the internal saphenous vein. Lymphatic vessels are found, taking the same course as the blood-vessels : they return the lymph from the superficial structures in the lower part of the abdomen, the scrotum, penis, and external surface of the buttock, and terminate in a small chain of lymphatic glands, three or four in number, which lie on a level with Poupart’s ligament. Nerves. The terminal branch of the ilio-inguinal nervo emerges at the external abdominal ring: and the hypogastric branch of the ilio-hypograstic nerve perfo- rates the aponeurosis of the external oblique, above and to the outer side of the external ring. I he deep layer of superficial fascia should be divided across in the same