PERITONEJM. 6; 9 column, form tlie mesentery ; whilst, on either side, it covers the ascending and descending colon, and is thus continuous with the peritoneum lining the walls of the abdomen. From the root of the mesentery, it descends along the front of the spine into the pelvis, and surrounds the upper part of the rectum, which it holds in its position by means of a distinct fold, the meso-rectum. Its course in the male and female now differs. In the male, it forms a fold between the rectum and bladder, the recto- vesical fold, and ascends over the posterior surface of the latter organ as far as its summit. In the female, it descends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, covers a small part of the posterior wall of the vagina, and is then reflected on to the uterus, the fundus and body of which it covers. From the sides of the uterus, it is reflected on each side of the wall of the pelvis, forming the broad ligaments ; and from the anterior surface of the uterus, it ascends upon the posterior wall of the bladder, as far as its summit. From this point it may be traced, as in the male, ascending upon the anterior parietes of the abdomen, to the under surface of the Diaphragm ; from which it is reflected upon the liver, forming the upper layer of the coronary, and the lateral and longitudinal ligaments. It then covers the upper and under surfaces of the liver, and at the transverse fissure becomes continuous with the anterior layer of the lesser omentum, the point whence its reflection was originally traced. The posterior layer of the lesser omentum descends to the lesser curvature of the stomach, and covers its posterior surface as far as the great curvature; it then descends for some distance in front of the small intestines, and, returning upon itself to the transverse colon, forms the internal layer of the great omentum; it covers the upper surface of the transverse colon, and, passing backwards to the spine, forms the upper layer of the transverse meso-colon. Ascending in front of the pancreas and crura of the Diaphragm, it lines the back part of the under sur- face of that muscle, from which it is reflected on to the posterior border of the liver, forming the inferior layer of the coronary ligament. From the under surface of the liver it may be traced to the transverse fissure, where it is continuous with the posterior layer of the lesser omentum, the point whence its reflection was originally traced. The space included in the reflections of this layer of the peritoneum is called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, or cavity of the great omentum. It is bounded, in front, by the lesser omentum, the stomach, and the descending part of the great omentum; behind, by the ascending part of the great omentum, the transverse colon, transverse meso-colon, and its ascending layer; above, by the liver; and below, by the folding of the great omentum. This space communicates with the general peritoneal cavity through the foramen of Winslow, which is situated behind the right, or free, border of the lesser omentum. The foramen of Winslow is bounded in front by the lesser omentum, enclosing the vena portae and the hepatic artery and duct; behind, by the inferior vena cava ; above, by the lobulus Spigelii; belo'W, by the hepatic artery curving forwards from the cseliac axis. This foramen is nothing more than a constriction of the general peritoneal cavity at this point, caused by the hepatic and gastric arteries passing forwards from the coeliac axis to reach their respective viscera. The viscera thus shown to be almost entirely invested by peritoneum arc the liver, stomach, spleen, first portion of the duodenum, the jejunum, and ileum, the transverse colon, sigmoid flexure, upper end of the rectum, the uterus, and ovaries. Ike viscera only partially invested by peritoneum are the descendingand transverse portions ot the duodenum, the caecum, the ascending and descending colon, the middle portion of the rectum, and the upper part of the vagina and posterior wall of the bladder. The kidneys, suprarenal capsules, .and pancreas are covered by the membrane without receiving any special investment from it.