683 THYROID GLAND. the capillaries would be exposed on all sides to the action of the air, since it is circulating in a single layer of vessels, which is in contact with the membrane of the air-passages on both sides; but that, in the septa between the intercellular passages (or air-sacs) tho blood in the double layer of capillaries will be in contact with the air on one side only. The Bronchial Arteries supply blood for the nutrition of the lung: they are derived from the thoracic aorta, and, accompanying the bronchial tubes, are dis- tributed to the bronchial glands, and upon the walls of the larger bronchial tubes and pulmonary vessels, and terminate in the deep bronchial veins. Others are distributed in the interlobular areolar tissue, and terminate partly in the deep, partly in the superficial, bronchial veins. Lastly, some ramify upon the walls of the smallest bronchial tubes, and terminate in the pulmonary veins. The Superficial and Deep Bronchial Veins unite at the root of the lung, and terminate on the right side in the vena azygos ; on the left side, in the superior intercostal vein. According to Dr. Waters, the bronchial veins do not exist within the proper substance of the lung, but commence at or near the root of the lung, by branches which lie on the large bronchial tubes. He also denies that the bronchial arteries contribute to the formation of the pulmonary plexus, believing that the communi- cation betw een the bronchial and pulmonary system of vessels takes place in the pulmonary veins. If this view be correct, almost the whole of the blood carried b^ the bronchial arteries must be returned to the heart by the pulmonary veins, and thus the great mass of pure, or arterial, blood which is carried by the pulmo- n.uj veins would be adulterated by a small quantity of carbonized or venous blood, which has passed through the bronchial circulation. The Lymphatics consist of a superficial and deep set: they terminate at the root of the lung, in the bronchial glands. Nerves. The lungs are supplied from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses, formed chiefly by branches from the sympathetic and pneumogastric. The filaments fiom these plexuses accompany the bronchial tubes, upon which they are lost. Small ganglia are found upon these nerves. Thyroid Gland. The thyroid gland bears much resemblance in structure to other glandular organs, and is usually classified together with the thymus, supra-renal capsules, and ' spleeih under the head of ductless glands, since it has no excretory duct. Its function is unknown, but, from its situation in. connection with the trachea and ■ laiYnx> the thyroid body is usually described with those organs, although it takes ! no part in the function of respiration. It is situated at the upper part of the trachea, and consists of two lateral lobes, placed one on each side of that tube and connected together by a narrow transverse portion, the isthmus. Its anterior surface is convex, and covered by the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid and Omo-hyoid muscles. ♦ J Its lateral surfaces, also convex, lie in contact with the sheath of the common :arotid artery. Its posterior surface is concave, and embraces tho trachea and larynx The posterior borders of the gland extend as far back as the lower part of tho anarynx. r rmlnl th^°id1is of a brVni8h red colour- Its weight varies from one to two • i . 1S arSer in cmales than in males, and becomes slightly increased in _nsH™ng nicnsfcruation. It occasionally becomes enormously hypertrophied, • \mo tl,e disease called bronchocele, or goitre. Each lobe ' is somewhat orenrHh U^i\ a ou^ ^vo inches in length, and three-quarters of an inch in oreadth, the right lobe being the larger of the two. w mus connects tho lower third of tho two lateral lobes; it measures