THE SKELETON. 126 In the 105.—Diagram showing the Structure of the Neck of the Femur. (Ward.) 106.- -Plan of the Development of the Femur. By Five Centres. Lhe arrangement ol the cancelli in the ends of the femur is l’emarkable. iipper end (fig. 105), they ran in parallel columns a a from the summit of the head to the thick under wall of the neck, while a series of transverse fibres h b cross the parallel columns, and connect them to the thin upper wall of the neck. Another series of plates c c springs from the whole interior of the cylinder above the lesser trochanter ; these pass upwards and converge to form a series of arches beneath the upper wall of the neck, near its junction with the great trochanter. This structure is admirably adapted to sustain, with the greatest mechanical advantage, concussion or weight trans- mitted from above, and serves an im- portant office in strengthening a part especially liable to fracture. In the lower end, the cancelli spring on all sides from the inner surface of the cylinder, and descend in a perpendicular direction to the articular surface, the cancelli being strongest and having a more accurately perpendicular course above the condyles. Articulations. With three bones : the os innominatum, tibia, and patella. Development (fig. 106). The femur is developed bj five centres : one for the shaft, one for each ex- tremity, and one for each trochanter. Of all the long bones, except the clavicle, it is the first to show traces of ossification; this commences in the shaft, at about the fifth week of foetal life, the centres of ossifica- tion in the epiphyses appearing in the following order: First, in the lower end of the bone, at the ninth month of foetal life; from this the condyles and tuberosities are formed; in the head, at the end of the first year after birth ; in the great trochanter, during the fourth year ; and in the lesser trochanter, between the thirteenth and four- teenth. The order in which the epiphyses are joined to the shaft, is the reverse of that of their appear- ance ; their junction does not com- mence until after puberty, the lesser trochanter being first joined, then the greater, then the head, and, lastly, the ^inferior extremity (the first in which ossification com- menced), which is not united until the twentieth year. Attachment of Muscles. To the great trochanter: the Gluteus medim, Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis, Obturator internus, Obturator externus, Gemellus superior, Gemellus inferior, and Quadrator femoris. To the lesser trochanter: the Psoas Appears at 4-r5.'/ i'A'flulft about tjmra r.s at Q ■'mo. Appears at end of y Joins Shaft alout IS’Ayr Appears IS-14-!!‘ y.- Joins Shaft about /<?<* yT Joins SltOjfl,aiiLO if-.