THE BLOOD. XXXIX siderably in different parts of the circulation, being much larger in the blood of the splenic vein and hepatic vein than in other parts of the body, ■while in the splenic artery they are very scanty. The colourless corpuscles bear a strong resemblance also to the cells found in pus. IYom the fact that cells exactly like the colourless corpuscles are being constantly furnished to the blood by the ducts of the lymphatic glands, the chyle-ducts (and even the liver in the foetus), and also from their Pig, n,—White corpuscles of human blood; d, Red corpuscles. High power. varying proportion in different parts of the circulation, and in different pathological conditions, the colourless corpuscles are usually regarded, —with, at any rate, considerable probability,—as an earlier stage of the coloured blood-discs. Fat-granules are seen in the blood of the lower animals, and occasionally in the blood of pregnant women; also, according to Kolliker, in other persons after the abundant use of milk or brandy, as well as in those who are fasting; which he attributes, in the latter case, to the absorption of the fat of the body. But, under ordinary circumstances, the granular base of the chyle, poured into the blood, through the veins at the root of the neck, disappears as the blood passes through the lungs. The fluid part of the blood, the liquor sanguinis, or plasma, is again composed of a permanently fluid portion—the serum—and of fibrin, which coagulates spontaneously when out of the body, but which is held in solution during life. The fibrin can be separated from blood after it has been drawn by whipping it with twigs, to which the fibrin as it coagulates adheres. The liquor sanguinis may be obtained free from the red corpuscles 11 by mixing fresh-drawn blood with six or eight times its bulk of serum, allowing the red particles to subside, and then decanting the supernatant fluid and filtering it through blotting paper ’ (Professor A. Buchanan, quoted by Dr. Sharpey). By this x>rocess, or by removing a portion of the clear liquor which is found above the buffy coat of in- flammatory blood just after the latter has formed, the plasma may be obtained (but diluted in the former method), and will then separate by coagulation into a colourless clot of fibrin and a saline fluid. The fibrin- clot consists of interlacing structureless strings, which contain in their meshes some white corpuscles accidentally enclosed in them. The office and uses of the fibrin, as well as its real nature, whether it exists as such in the living blood, or is a product of the death of that fluid, have beeu and are the subjects of much difference of opinion—but such questions are exclusively within the domain of physiology. The fluid left after the coagulation of the fibrin, which is the serum of