52 THE SKELETON. superior turbinated crest is a narrow horizontal groove, which forms part of the superior meatus, The external surface is rough and irregular throughout the greater part of its extent, for articulation with the inner surface of the superior maxillary bone, its upper and back part being smooth where it enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fossa ; it is also smooth in front, where it covers the orifice of the antrum. Towards the back part of this surface is a deep groove, converted into a canal, the posterior palatine, by its articulation with the superior maxillary bone. It transmits the posterior, or descending palatine vessels, and a large nerve. The anterior border is thin, irregular, and presents opposite the inferior turbinatedX crest a pointed projecting lamina, the maxillary process, which is directed forwards, \ and closes in the lower and back part of the opening of the antrum, being received j into a fissure that exists at the inferior part of this aperture. The posterior border^ (%• 52) presents a deep groove, the edges of which are serrated for articulation with the pterygoid process of the sphenoid. At the lower part of this border is seen a pyramidal process of bone, the pterygoid process or tuberosity of the palate, which is received into the angular interval between the two pterygoid plates of the sphenoid at their inferior extremity. This process presents at its back part three grooves, a median and two lateral ones. The former is smooth, and forms part of the pterygoid fossa, affording attachment to the Internal pterygoid muscle ; whilst the lateral grooves are rough and uneven, for articulation with the anterior border of each pterygoid plate. A few fibres of the External pterygoid muscle also- arise from the tuberosity of the palate bone. The base of this process, continuous with the horizontal portion of the bone, presents the apertures of the accessory descending palatine canals ; whilst its outer surface is rough for articulation with the inner surface of the body of the superior maxillary bone. -< The superior border of the vertical plate presents two well-marked processes separated by an intervening notch or foramen. The anterior, or larger, is called the orbital process ; the posterior, the sphenoidal. The Orbital Process, directed upwards and outwards, is placed on a higher level than the sphenoidal. It presents five surfaces, which enclose a hollow cellu- lar cavity, and is connected to the perpendicular plate by a narrow constricted neck. Of these fi ve surfaces, three are articular, two non-articular, or free surfaces. The three articular are the anterior or maxillary surface, which is directed for- wards, outwards, and downwards, is of an oblong form, and rough for articulation with the superior maxillary 52.—Left Palate Bone. Posterior View (enlarged). bone. The posterior or sphe- noidal surface is directed back- wards, upwards, and inwards. It ordinarily presents a small open cell, which communicates with the sphenoidal sinus, and the margins of which are ser- rated for articulation with the vertical part of the sphenoidal turbinated bone. The internal or ethmoidal surface is directed inwards, upwards, and forwards, and articulates with the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone. In some cases, the cellular cavity above-mentioned opens on this surface of the bone; it then communicates with the posterior ethmoidal cells. More rarely it opens on both surfaces, and then communicates both with the ,» to** ft 1 ':“J o>J - xo. juthttiue. [’or. SJilicitoid'etl process. ~Z.lriir.uiur hart. , ' JZxt Suri on. (trlicnuirfiort. AZYGOS (JVULA- hjORIZ ON T A L PLATE To*. jSj 11