MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 47i • • f/A fi-vnv columns which, from before backwards, are named the trad and oU»ar,j My, the resUform My, the poster W™™d- pyramids, or corpora pyramidalia, are two pyramidal-shaped the anteno! JJ placed one on either side of the anterior median fissure, bundles of white matter, placed ^ from the olivary body, 2-7 —Medulla Oblongata and Pons Varolii. which is external to them, by a slight Anterior Surface. depression. At the lower border of the pons they are somewhat constricted •, they then become enlarged, and taper slightly as they descend, being con- tinuous below with the anterior co- lumns of the cord. On separating the pyramids below, it will bo observed that their innermost fibres form from four to five bundles on each side, which decussate with one another; this de- cussation, however, is not formed en- tirely of fibres from the pyramids, but mainly from the deep portion of the lateral columns of the cord which pass forwards to the surface between the di- verging anterior columns. The outer- most fibres do not decussate ; they are derived from the anterior oolumus of the cord, and are continued directly upwards through the pons Varolii. Lateral trad and olivary lady. The lateral tract is continuous with the lateral column of the cord. Below, it is broad, and includes that part of the medu a between the anterior pyramid and restiform body ; but aboye, it is pushed a backwards, and narrowed by the projection forwards 0 eso’ ^ anterior The olivary bodies are two prominent, oval masses si ua nvramids from which they are separated by slight grooves. They equal, m Sthe anterior pyramids, are a little broader above than below, and are about half an inch in length, being separated, above from le pons < ^ slight depression. Numerous white fibres (dbree arciformes) are seen wind g round the lower end of each body ; sometimes crossing their surface. The restiform bodies (fig. 258) are the largest columns of the medulla, and con- tinuous, below, with the posterior columns of the cord. . They are wo 1 ounce , cord-like eminences, placed between the lateral tracts, m front, and the posterior pyramids, behind ; from both of which they are separated by slight grooves As they ascend, they diverge from each other, assist in forming the lateral boundaries of the fourth ventricle, and then enter the corresponding hemisphere of the cere- bellum, forming its inferior peduncle ; it is probable that some fibres are continue from the restiform bodies into the cerebrum. The posterior pyramids (fasciculi graoiles) are two nairow, w 1 e °01 s P acc one on each side of the posterior median fissure, and separated from the restiform bodies by a narrow groove. They consist entirely of white fibres and are con- tinuous with the posterior median columns of the spinal cord. These bodies he, at first, in close contact. Opposite the apex of the fourth ventricle they foim an enlargement (processus clavatus), and then, diverging, are os' m 10 (or ponding restiform body. The upper part of the posterior pyramids form the latcra boundaries of the calamus scriptorius. . The posterior surface of the medulla oblongata forms part of tic 001 o ^ fourth ventricle. It is of a triangular form, bounded on each side by t ic 11\ ei „ » posterior pyramids, and is that part of the ventricle which, from its u sun ’ a ’ to the point of a pen, is called the calamus scriptorius. Lhe diveigenoc o