ARTERIES. 414 Behind. Popliteal vein. Internal popliteal nerve. Fascia. , Peculiarities in point of division. Occasionally the popliteal artery divides prematurely into its terminal branches ; this division occurs most frequently opposite the knee-joint. Unusual branches. The artery sometimes divides into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the posterior tibial being wanting, or very small. In a single case, the popliteal was found to divide into three branches, the anterior and posterior tibial, and peroneal. Surgical Anatomy. Ligature of the popliteal artery is required in cases of wound of that vessel, but for aneurism of the posterior tibial it is preferable to tie the superficial femoral. The popliteal may be tied in the upper or lower part of its course ; but in the middle of the ham the operation is attended with considerable difficulty, from the great depth of the artery, and from the extreme degree of tension of the lateral boundaries of the space. In order to expose the vessel in the upper part of its course, the patient should be placed in the prone position, with the limb extended. An incision about three inches in length should then be made through the integument, along the posterior margin of the Semimem- branosus, and the fascia lata having been divided, this muscle must be drawn inwards, when the pulsation of the vessel will be detected with the finger; the nerve lies on the outer or fibular side of the artery, the vein, superficial and also to its outer side ; the vein having been Cautiously separated from the artery, the aneurism needle should be passed around the latter vessel from without inwards. To expose the vessel in the lower part of its course, where the artery lies between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the patient should be placed in the same position as in the pre- ceding operation. An incision should then be made through the integument in the middle line, commencing opposite the bend of the knee-joint, care being taken to avoid the external saphenous vein and nerve. After dividing the deep fascia, and separating some dense cellular membrane, the artery, vein, and nerve will be exposed, descending between the two heads of the Gastrocnemius. Some muscular branches of the popliteal should be avoided if possible, or if divided, tied immediately. The leg being now flexed, in order the more effectually to separate the two heads of the Gastrocnemius, the nerve should be drawn inwards and the vein outwards, and the aneurism needle passed between the artery and vein from without inwards. The branches of the popliteal artery are, the Muscular / fumrioi*. L Interior or Sural. Cutaneous. Superior external articular. Superior internal articular. Azygos articular. Inferior external articular. Inferior internal articular. The superior muscular branches, two or three in number, arise from the upper part of the popliteal artery, and are distributed to the Vastus externus and flexor muscles of the thigh; anastomosing with the inferior perforating, and terminal branches of the profunda. The inferior muscular (Sural) are two large branches, which are distributed to the two heads of the Gastrocnemius and to the Plantaris muscle. They arise from the popliteal artery opposite the knee-joint. Cutaneous branches descend on each side and in the middle of the limb, between the Gastrocnemius and integument ; they arise separately from the popliteal artery, or from some of its branches, and supply the integument of the calf. The superior articular arteries, two in number, arise one on either sido of tho popliteal, and wind round the femur immediately abovo its condyles to the front of the knee-joint. The internal branch passes beneath the tendon of the Adductor mao-nus, and divides into two, one of which supplies the Vastus internus, inoscu- lating with the anastomotica raagna and inferior internal articular; the other ramifies close to the surface of the femur, supplying it and the knee-joint, and anastomosing with the superior external articular artery. Tho external branch passes above the outer condyle, beneath the tendon of the Biceps, and divides iuto a superficial and deep branch : the superficial branch supplies the Vastus externus, and anastomoses with tho descending branch of the external circumflex artery ; tho