GENERAL ANATOMY. lii interior of the hone. They are said, by Kolliker, to be most numerous in e articular extremities of the long hones, in the vertebra;, and the larger flat bones. Minute Anatomy .—The intimate structure of bone, which in all essential particulais is identical in the compact and cancellous tissue, is most easily studied in a transverse section from the compact wall of one of the long bones after maceration, such as is shown in Fig. XIY. The large lound spaces seen in the figure are the Haversian canals, and in these canals the larger vessels of the bone ramify. The fine lines leading out of (or into) these canals, are called canaliculi, and the irregular dark Fiy. XtV.—Froin a transverse section of the Fig. XV.—Section parallel to the surface diapliysis of the humerus, magnified 350 times. from the shaft of the femur, magnified (t, llfueisian canals; b, lacunae, with their 100 times, a, Haversian canals; b, canaliculi in the lamellae of these canals; c, lacunae seen from the side; c, others lacunae of the interstitial lamellfe ; cl, others at seen from the surface in lamellae which the surface of the Haversian systems, with are cut horizontally, canaliculi going off from one side. spaces, which may be noticed to have a general circular arrangement round the Haversian canals, are called the lacuna;. The canaliculi which originate in one lacuna most frequently run into a neighbouring lacuna, or else into a neighbouring Haversian canal; some of them, however, anastomose with others in their neighbourhood, and a few appear to terminate in blind extremities or to bend backwards. The concentric rings of lacunae round each Haversian canal are called lamella•. The irregular intervals which would be left by the juxtaposition of these lamellsc, are seen in the figure to be filled up by lacuna) and canaliculi which communicate with the systems composing the adjacent lamella). The interspaces between the lacunae and canaliculi are filled with a granular homogeneous solid material, the ultimate mineral base of the bone. If a longitudinal section be taken, as in Fig. XV., the appearances are