CXXlll DEVELOPMENT OE THE ALIMENTARY CANAL. jDevelopment of the alimentai'y canal. The development of the intestinal cavity is, as shown above, p. cxi., one of the earliest phenomena of embryonic life. This original intestine is closed at either end, and is at first in free communication with the umbilical vesicle (Fig. LIII., 3). It is divided into three parts: the anterior or cephalic portion of the primi- tive intestine, the middle, and the posterior or pelvic. From the first is Fig. LX.—Diagram of the formation of the main systemic veins. A, Heart and venous system at the period when there are two venae cavse superiores, posterior view. 1, Left superior cava. 2, Right superior cava. 3, Inferior cava. 4, Left inferior cardinal. 5, Right inferior cardinal. 6, Right jugular. 7, Anastomosing branch between the jugulars (left innominate). 8, Subclavian. 9, Internal jugular. 10, External jugular. 11, Middle obliterated portion of the posterior cardinal veins. 12, Newly formed posterior vertebral veins. 13, Anastomosis between the two vertebrals—trunk of small azygos. 14, Iliac veins, proceeding from anastomosis between the inferior cava and posterior cardinals. 15, Crural. 16, Hypogastric—originally the distal ends of the cardinals. B, Heart and per- manent veins, posterior view. 1, Obliterated left superior cava. 6, Right innominate. 7, Left innominate. 8, Subclavian. 10, Jugular. 13, Trunk of the small azygos. 17, Coronary sinus receiving the coronary vein. 18, Superior intercostal. 19, Superior small azygos. 20, Inferior small azygos. formed the pharnyx and oesophagus; from the second, the stomach, small intestine and large intestine, as far as the upper part of the rectum; from the third, the middle third of the rectum. The buccal cavity on the one hand, and the lower portion of the rectum on the other, are separate pro- ductions from the external layer of the blastodermic membrane, and do . not communicate with the common cavity till a later period. The per- manence of the foetal septum in either case constitutes a well-known deformity—imperforate oesophagus or imperforate rectum, as the case may be. The anal cavity is at first common to the urogenital, as well as to the digestive organs. The development of the palate has been spoken of above. The tongue appears about the fifth week as a small elevation, behind the inferior maxillary arch, to which is united another projection from the second pharyngeal arch. The epithelial layer is furnished by the external blastodermic membrane. The tonsils appear about the fourth month.