METATAHSAL BONES. 172 Articulations.—With four bones : os calcis, external cuneifomi, fourtli and Hftli nietatai'sal bone, and sometimes the sca])]ioid. Attachment of Muscles.—To two: flexor brevis hallucis, and adductor hallucis. Upon a consideration of the articulations of the tarsus it will l)e observed that each bone articulates with four adjoining bones, witli the excei^tion of the calcaneuni, which articulates with two, and the external cuneiform with six. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, with the excep- tion of the OS calcis, which has an epijjhysis for its i)osterior tul^ero- sity. The centres appear in the following order : calcanean, sixth month ; astragalan, seventh month ; cuboid, ninth month ; external cuneiform, end of the first year ; internal cuneiform, during the third year ; middle cuneiform and scaphoid, during the fourth year. The epii)hysis of the calcaneuni ajjpears at the tenth year, and is united with the diaphysis at about the fifteenth. METATARSAL BONES." These bones, five in number, are long bones, and divisible there- fore into a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is prismoid, and compressed from side to side ; the posterior extremity, or base, is wedge-shaped, to articulate with, the tarsal bones, and with each other; the anterior extremity presents a rounded head, circum- scribed by a neck, to articulate with the first row of the phalanges. Peculiar Metatarsal Bones.—The first is shorter and larger than the rest, and forms part of the inner border of the foot; its posterior extremity has no lateral facet, but jjresents a large kidney-shaj)ed surface at its l)ase, and an oval rough ])rominence Ijeneath for the insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. The head of the bone has, on its plantar surface, two grooved facets, for sesamoid l)ones. To find the side to which the bone belongs, hold it with the base towards yon and the convex surface niDwards; the con- cavity of the kidney-shaped surface will then point to the appro- priate side. The second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones ; it jjresents at its base an articular facet for the middle cunei- form bone, and has on its outer lateral surface four facets, two for the outer cuneiform and two for the third metatarsal. On its inner surface it has only one facet, for the internal cuneiform. If the bone be held with its" head directed forwards and the convex surface of the shaft upwards, the four lateral facets will point to the side to which it belongs. The third may be known by two facets on the inner side of its base, corresponding with the second, and one on the outer side for the fourth metatarsal. It may be distinguished also by its smaller size. When held in the usual position, the side with the single lateral facet will indicate the foot to which the bone belongs.