MUCOUS MEMBRANE: 683 the ventricle of the larynx. This fossa is bounded below by the true vocal cord, which it serves to isolate, and above by a border of mucous membrane folded upon the lower edge of tlie superior thyro-arytenoid ligament (superior or false vocal cord). The whole of" the cavity of the larynx, with its prominences and depressions, is lined by mucous membrane, continuous superiorly with that of the mouth and pharynx, and prolonged inferiorly through the trachea and broncliial tubes into the lungs. In the ventricles of the larynx the mucous membrane forms a csecal pouch of variable size, termed the sacculus laryngis. The sacculus laryngis is directecl upwards, sometimes extending as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and occasionally above that border. When dis- sected from the interior of the larynx it is found (Covered by the aryteno-epiglottideus muscle and a fibrous membrane, which latter is attached to the superior thyro-arytenoid ligament loelow ; to the epiglottis in front; and to the upper border of the thyroid cartilage above. If examined from the exterior of the larynx, it will be seen to be covered by the thyro-epiglottideus muscle. On the surface of its mucous membrane are the openings of sixty or seventy small race- mose glands, which are situated in the sub-mucous tissue, and give to its external surface a rough and ill-dissected apjjearance. The secretion from these glands is intended for the lubrication of the vocal cords, and is directed upon them by two small valvular folds of mucous membrane, wliich are situated at the entrance of the sacculus. The mucous membrane is closely connected to the epi- glottis and to the vocal cords, on the latter being remarkable for its thinness. It is invested by a columnar ciliated epithelium as high up as the superior folds of the ventricle of the larynx and lower half of the epiglottis, but on the true vocal cords the epithelium is squa- mous and non-ciliated. Glands.—The mucous membrane of the larynx is furnished with an abundance of mucous glands ; many of these are situated on the epiglottis, in the sacculus laryngis, and in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds, where they are termed arytenoid. The body known as the epiglottic gland is merely a mass of areolar and adipose tissue, situated in the triangular space between the front surface of the apex of the epiglottis, the hyo-epiglottic ligament, and the thyro- hyoid ligament. Laryngoscopic Appearance.—When examined by means of the laryngoscope, the upper opening of the larynx presents the appear- ance of a space of abnost seuiilunar form, bounded in front by the base of the tongue and behind by the wall of the pharynx. lii the anterior jjart of this space the curved free extremity of the epiglottis (Fig. 398, e) is seen, and projecting into the space from before, m tlie middle line, the cushion of the epiglottis {cu). In the middle line behind is a narrow slit, which is the space between the two arytenoid cartilages, and on each side of this a rounded tubercle, the tip of each corniculum laryngis; a little externally to these, two other tubercles will be noticed, due to the presence of the cuneiform