SUTURES. 120 ossification, with tlie exception of the clavicle. At the time of biilh it consists of two lateral halves united by fibrous tissue ; ossific union of the symphysis takes place during the first year. Articulations.—With the glenoid fossae of the two temporal bones, through the medium of a fibro-cartilage. Attachment of Muscles.—To fifteen pairs : by the external nur- /ace, commencing at the symphysis and proceeding outwards, levator labii inferioris, depressor labii inferioris, depressoi- anguli oris, platysma myoides, a few fibres of the orbicularis oris, buccinatoi-, and masseter; by the internal surface^ also commencing at the symphysis, the genio-hyo-glossus, genio-hyoid, mylo-hyoid, digas- tric, superior constrictor, temporal, external pterygoid, and internal pterygoid. SUTURES. The bones of the cranium and face are connected with each other by means of sutures {sutura, a seam). That is, the edges of the bone are roughened or uneven, are accurately adapted to each other, and united by a small quantity of fibrous tissue. When the j)rocess of union of the bones of the skull is retarded hj over-distension of the head, as in hydrocephalus, and sometimes without any such apparent cause, distinct ossific centres are developed in the interval between the edges ; and, being surrounded by the suture, form independent pieces which are called ossa triqueti-a, or ossa Wormiana. These are most frequently found in the lamb- doidal suture ; but one sometimes occurs at the junction of the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone with the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid ; it is called the pterion ossicle. The sutures may be divided into (i) those at the vertex, (2) those at the side of the skull, and (3) those at the base. Those at the vertex are the coronal, sagittal, and lamhdoidal. The coronal suture (Fig. 118) extends transversely across the vertex of the skull, and connects the frontal with the parietal bones. In the formation of this suture the edges of the ai'ticulating bones are bevelled, so that the parietal rest on the frontal at each side, and in the middle the frontal rests on the parietal bones. The sagittal suture extends longitudinally backAvards along the vertex of the skull, from the middle of the coronal to the apex of the lambdoidal suture. It is much serrated, and serves to unite the two parietal bones. In the young subject, and soinetimes in the adult, this suture is continued through the middle of the frontal bone to the root of the nose, under the name of frontal suture. Ossa triquetra are sometimes found in the sagittal suture. The lambdoidal suture is named from some resemljlance to the Greek letter lamlxla (A), consisting of two branches, A\iiich diverge at an acute angle from the extremity of the sagittal suture. This suture connects the occipital with the jiarietal bones. The sutures at the side of the skull ai-e the squamo-farietal, the sjjheno-parietal, and the viasto-parietal.