290 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. and external abdominal ring. By its internal mrface with iIk- transversalis muscle, fascia transversalis, internal aljdoininal rinp, and sijermatic cord. By its loiuer and arched border with th.' spermatic cord ; forming the upper boundary of the inguinal Nerve-supply.—The genital branch of the genito-crural nerve. Dissection.—The internal oblique muscle is to be removed by making an incision from the anterior superior spine of the ilium horizontally inwards to the edge of the rectus, and another at righi Fig. 203.—Lateral view of the trunk, showing its muscles, particularly the trunsversalis jibdominis. i. Costal origin of the latissimus dorsi. 2. Serratus niagims. 3. Upper part of the external oblique, divided in the direction best calculated to show the muscles beneath without inter- fering with its indigitations witli the serratus magnus. 4. Two of the external intercostal muscles. 5. Two of the internal iutercostals. 6. Transversalis. 7. Its posterior aponeurosis. 8. Its anterior apo- neurosis, forming tlie posterior layer of the sheath of the rectus. 9. Lower part of the left rectus with the aponeurosis of the transvers.-dis passing in front. 10. Right rectus muscle. II. Arched opening lef between the lower border of the transversalis muscle and Poupart' ligament through which tlic sper- matic cord and oblique inguinr' hernia pass. 12. Tensor vagina femoris, gluteus mcdius and maxi mus invested by fascia lata. angles to this, near the margin of the latter muscle, to the ril)s ; th muscle is then to be separated from its anterior connections an turned baclcAvards. Some degree of care Avill be required in per forming this dissection, from the difficulty of distinguishing l)et\vee this muscle and the one beneath. A thin layer of connective tissu is all that separates them for the greater part of their extent. Ne the crest of the ilium the deep circumflex iliac artery a.^cend;* betwee the two muscles, and forms a guide to their separation ; Init jus above Poupart's ligament they are so closely united that separatio is impossible.