GENITO-CKUEAL NEEVE. 583 the iuguinal canal, which it traverses, lying in front of the spermatic Corel, and escapes at the external abdominal ring to be distributed to the scrotum and to the integument of the upper part of the thigh, internally to the saphenous opening; and in the female to that of the pudendum. The GENITO-CRURAL NERVE proceeds from the second lumbar and by a few filaments from the loop between it and the first. It traverses the psoas magiflis from behind forwards, and runs down the anterior surface of that muscle, lying beneath its fascia, to near Poupart's ligament, where it divides into a genital and a crural branch. The genital branch crosses the external iliac artery to the in- ternal abdominal ring, and descends along the sj)ermatic canal, lying behind the cord, to the scrotum, where it distributes twigs to the spermatic cord and cremaster muscle. In the female it gives twigs to the round ligament and external labiimi. At the internal abdo- minal ring this nerve sends oft' a branch, which, after supplying the lower border of the internal oblique and transversalis, is lost in the integument of the groin. The crural branch, the most external of the two, descends along the outer border of the external iliac artery, and, crossing the origin of the deej) circumflex iliac artery, enters the sheath of the femoral vessels in front of the femoral artery. It j)ierces the sheath below Poupart's ligament, and is distributed to the integument of the anterior asj)ect of the thigh as far as its middle. This nerve com- mimicates with the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve, and is often very small. The EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE proceeds from the second lumbar, and from the loop between it and the third. It pierces the posterior fibres of the psoas muscle and crossing the iliacus on the iliac fascia, to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, passes into the thigh, beneath Poupart's ligament, where it divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The posterior branch crosses the tensor vaginae femoris muscle to the outer and posterior aspect of the thigh, and supplies the skin as far as its middle. The anterior nerve, after passing for three or four inches down the thigh in a sheath formed by the fascia lata, becomes superficial, and divides into two branches, which are distributed to the in- tegument of the outer border of the thigh, and to the articulation of the knee. Its branches assist in the formation of the plexus patellae. The OBTURATOR NERVE is formed by a branch from the third, and another from the fourth lumbar nerve, and is distributed to the obturator externus and adductor muscles of the thigh, the hip and knee joint, the femoral and popliteal artery, and sometimes to the integument of the upper and inner part of the leg. From its origin it takes its course among the fibres of the psoas muscle, through the angle of bifurcation of the common iliac vessels, and along the inner