689 BEONCHIAL TUBES. and gives off two otxier branches below its level {hyf arterial branches), which pass to the middle and lower lobes. The left, two inches in length, and smaller than the right, passes obliquely beneath the arch of the aorta, and divides into two branches, both of which are placed below the ])nlmonary artery (hyparterial branches), and pass to the two lobes of the left lung. From this arrangement of the bronchi it seems probable that the two lower lobes of the right lung corre- spond to the -^diole of the left, and that the upper lobe of the right is entirely additional. Upon entering the lungs the bronchi divide into branches, and each of these divides and subdivides dicho- FiG. 401.—Heart and lungs. I. Right ven- tricle, the vessels to the left of the figure are theright coronary artery and veins; those to its right, the left coronary ar- tery and veins. 2. Left ventricle. 3. Right auricle. 4. Left auricle. 5. Pulmo- nary artery. 6. Right pulmonary artery. 7. Left pulmonary ar- tery. 8. Ligamentum artei iosum. g. Arch of the aorta. 10. Superior vena cava. II. Innominate ar- tery, and in front of it the right in- nominate vein. 12. Right subclavian vein, and, behind it, its corresponding ar- tery. 13. Right com- mon carotid artery and internal jugular vein. 14. Left inno- minate vein. 15. Left carotid artery and jugular vein. 16. Left subclavian vein and artery. 17. Trachea. 18. Right bronchus. 19. Left bronchus. 20, 20. Pul- monary veins ; 18, 20, form the root of the right lung; and 7, ig, 20, the root of the left. 21. Superior lobe of the right hmg. 22. Middle lobe. 23. Inferior lobe. 24. Superior lobe of the left lung. 25. Inferior lobe. tomously to their ultimate termination in the intercellular jDassages and air-cells. The bronchial tubes or bronchioles are cylindrical tubes which differ from tlie bronchi in not being flattened posteriorly, and in liaving the cartilaginous and muscular layers distributed throughout theii' entire calibre. The cartilages cease to be regular rings and become irregulai- plates, which are most developed at tlie points of division of the bronchioles, where they form a concave ridge pro- jecting into the tube ; they disappear altogether when the tube is reduced to one millimetre in diameter. Connecting tlie cartilages and arranged outside them is a layer of fibrous tissue forming the fihrons coat; in the smallest tubes it is found devoid of cartilage, and becoming thinner is at length continued into the areolar stroma 2 X