AETERIES OF THE BRAIN. gl'ey cortex of the convolutions. The most definite band of these fibres is continued upwards from the pyramidal tract of the medulla, and passes to the convolutions bordering on the fissure of Eolando (motor area of the cortex). Another set of these fibres passes from the lateral part of the crusta to the occipital lobe of the cerebrum (direct sensory tract). The innermost fibres of the crusta_ may be traced beneath the thalamus to terminate in the under part of the len- ticular nucleus (ansa lenticularis). The fibres of the tegmentum consist of the bundles traversing the formatio reticularis ; they are joined by those passing from the cerebellum in the processus e cere- bello ad testes, and proljably some strands from the corpora quadri- gemina and other nuclei. Passing beneath the thalamus they enter that nuclear mass, but some run on the outer side thereof, to join the corona radiata, and jjass from thence to the cortex of the temporo- sphenoidal and occipital lobes. The transverse or commissural fibres include (i) the anterior commissure of the third ventricle, (2) the posterior commissure, and (3) the transverse fibres of the corjjus callosum. The longitudinal or collateral fibres include the following : viz., (i) the fornix, (2) toenia semicircularis, (3) strioe longitudinales of the corjjus callosum, (4) fibres of the gyrus f ornicatus (superior longitudinal commissure), (5) a white bundle of fibres at the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, connecting the frontal with the temjjoro-sphenoidal lobe and called the uncinate fasciculus, (6) a bundle of fibres lying in the outer wall of the posterior and middle horns of the lateral ventricles, connecting the occipital and temporo-sphenoidal lobes, and named the inferior lovgitndinal fasciculus, and (7) cossociation fibres passing betAveen the several convolutions, and between difterent parts of the same convolution (A. Campbell Clark). The connection of the fibres in the cerebiaim with those in the medulla and spinal cord will be best understood from the table given on page 526, and derived chiefly from J. Rylands Whitaker. Arteries of the Brain. The arteries of the brain present certain ].ieculiarities which render it necessary that they should be studied apart from the eneral arterial system, and along with the organ to which they are istributed. The important anastomotic connection at the base of the brain called the circle of Willis has been described on a previous page (402), and it is only necessary here to recall the fact that from that circle three main trunks, called anterior, middle, and posterior cerebral arteries, are given oft' on each side to the anterior, middle, and posterior regions of the brain. The branches derived from these trunks are of two kinds : medullar?/, which pass to the basal ganglia and neighbouring parts; and cortical, which are distributed to the convolutions of the five lobes into which the cerebrum is divided. These two systems of arteries are almost entirely independent of each other, what communications exist between them being very few