228 FASCIJE. In the descviption of a muscle we express its attachment by the words "origin" and "insertion:" the term origin is geneVallv applied to the more lixed attachment, or to the point towards wliicli the motion is directed, while insertion is assigned to tlie more movable point. Where both ends are equally moval>le the term origin is given to the attachment nearest to the middle line of the body, and that farthest from the middle line is called the insertion. FASCIA {fascia, a bandage) is the name assigned to fibrous laminae of various extent and thickness, which are distributed through the different regions (jf the body, for the purpose of in- vesting or protecting the softer and more delicate organs. From a consideration of their structure, these fasciae may l^e arranged into two groups : areolo-fibrous fasciae, and aponeurotic fasciae. The areolo-fibrous or superficial fascia is the common sub- cutaneous investment of the entire body; it is situated immediately beneath the integument o\-er every part of the frame, and is the medium of connection between that layer and the deeper parts. It is composed of areolar and elastic tissue, and contains in its areolae an abundance of adipose tissue, constituting the imnniculm adijjosus. Fat is, however, absent from the subcutaneous tissue of the penis, scrotum, and eyelids. By dissection, the superficial fascia may be sepai'ated into two layers, between which are found the superficial or cutaneous vessels and nerves; as the superficial epi- gastric artery, saphena veins, radial and ulnar veins, superficial lymphatic vessels, and the cutaneous muscles, such as the platysma myoides. The deep layer of this fascia usually forms a moie distinct sheet than the sujjerficial, and is almost devoid of fat vesicles. The aponeurotic or deep fascia is the strongest kind of investing membrane ; it is composed of tendinous fibres, running parallel with each other, and connected by other fibres of the same kind passing in different directions, together with areolar tissue and fine elastic fibres. When freshly exposed, it is white, glistening, and iridescent, and is firm, unyielding, and but little elastic. It encloses and forms distinct sheaths to all the muscles and tendon.s. It is thick on the outer and least protected side of the limb, and thinner at its inner side. It is firmly connected to the bones, and to the ]H-ominent points of each region, as to the pelvis, knee, and ankle, in the lower ; and to the clavicle, scapula, elbow, and wrist, in the upper extremity. It assists the muscles in their action, by keeping up a tonic pressure on their surface ; aids materially in the circula- tion of the fluids ; and in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot is a powerful protection to the structures which enter into the com- position of those regions. In some situations its tension is regulated by muscular action, as by the tensor \-aginaj fenioris and gluteus maximus in the thigh, by the biceps in the leg, and by the liiceps and palmaris longus in the arm ; in other situations it affords an extensive surface for the origin of the fibres of muscles.