VAGINA. 786 named in honoiu- of tlieir discoverer Skene^s tubules. I'lie iiretliia i,- composed of tliree coats, mucous, submucous, and muscular ; tin- mucous coat is vascular, and disjjosed in lougitudirial folds, and iss continuous internally witli the mucous memljrane of the bladder and externally witli that of the vulva. It is provided with a squamous epitheliiim, having a deep stratuui of elongated cells, like the mucous membrane of the bladder, and near its extremity has, opening on its surface, the ducts of numerous racemose mucous glands, the glands of Littre. The submucous coat is loose, and provided with a con- siderable plexus of veins, and in its areolar tissue are situated the racemose mucous glands, which open into the urethra near its ter- mination. The muscular coat consists of two layers, which are con- tinuous with the muscular structure of the bladder, the internal layer being longitudinal, and mingled with areolar and elastic tissue ; the external cii'cular, and continuous with the middle layer of the mus- cular coat. The female urethra is remarkable for its disteusibility, which is only restricted at .the meatus by a ring of dense areolar tissue; hence, in distending the iirethra for surgical purposes, it is often necessary to divide the margin of the meatus with the knife, VAGINA. The vagina is a membranous canal, leading from the vulva to the iiterus, and corresponding in direction Avith the axis of the outlet of the pelvis. It is constricted at its commencement, but near the uterus becomes dilated, and is closed by the contact of the anterior ^vit\\ the posterior wall, so as to appear in sections as a mere longi- tudinal or transverse slit. Its length is variable ; but it is always longer on the posterior than on the anterior wall, the former being usually about five or six inches in length, the latter about four. It is attached to the cervix of the uterus, which latter projects into the u^jper extremity of the canal. Its upjjer fourth is covered pos- teriorly hj the peritoneum, while anteiiorly the peritoneum is re- flected from the cervix uteri without reaching so low as the vagina ; it is firmly connected to the bladder in front, and loosely to the rectum behind ; at the sides it receives the attachment of the posterior layer of the broad ligaments above, and that of the pelvic fascia and levatpres ani l )elow. I ts close connection with the bladder occasions the prolapsus of that organ in cases of prolapsus uteri, while its looser con- nection with the rectiim preserves the latter from a similar accident. Structure.—The vagina, about one line in thickness, is composed of three coats : external, fibrous ; middle, muscular ; and internal, mucous. The external or fibrous coat is thin and white, and consists of condensed areolar tissue, with an admixture of elastic fibres. It is firm around the upper part of the tube, and lax iu- ferioriy, and contains in its tissue, especially below, an abundant venous plexus. By its inner surface it is blended with the muscular coat without any distinct separation. The middle or muscular coat is composed of smooth muscular fibre, arranged in longitudinal and