SERRATUS POSTICUS MUSCLES. 273 Nerve-supply —The rhomboid imiscles are supplied by a branch of the brachial plexus called rliomboid ; it is derived from the fifth cervical. Third Layer. Serratus posticus superior, Herratus posticus inferior, Splenius. Dissection.—The third layer consists of muscles which arise from the spinous processes of the verteln'al column, and pass outwards. It is brought into view by dividing the levator anguli scapulae near its insertion, and reflecting the two rhomboid muscles upwards from their insertion into the scapula. The latter muscles sliould now be removed. Tlie SERRATUS POSTICUS SUPERIOR is situated at the upper part of the thorax ; it arises from the ligamentum nuchai and spinous processes of the last cervical and two upper dorsal vertebrae. The muscle passes obliquely downwards and outwards, and is inserted by four serrations into the upper border of the second, third, fourth, alid fifth riha, a little beyond their angle. Eelations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, rhom- boideus major and minor, and serratus nuignus. By its dee2J surface \\-ith the splenius, erector s])in£io, intercostal muscles and riljs. The SERRATUS POSTICUS INFERIOR arises from the spinous processes and interspinous ligaments of the two lowev dorsal and two or three upper lumbar vertebrae, and jjassing obliquely up- wards, is inserted by four serrations into the lower border of the four inferior ril)S. Both muscles consist of a thin aponeurosis for about half their extent. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the latissinurs dorsi, its tendinous origin being inseparabh' connected with the aponeurosis of that niuscle. By its deep surface with the erector spinas, inter- costal muscles, and lower ribs. The up2jer border is continuoiis ■with a thin tendinous layer, the vertebral aponeurosis. Nerve-supply.—The serrati muscles are supplied by the external branches of the posterior divisions of the dorsal nerves. The vertebral aponeurosis is a thin membranous expansion, composed of transverse and longitudinal fibres, extending from the u]iper border of the serratus posticus inferior upwards beneath the serratus posticus superior to the neck, where it is lost in the cei'vi- cal fascia. It is attached along the middle line to the spinous pro- cesses of the dorsal vertebrae, externally to the angles of the ribs, and l)ecomes continuous below with the strong aponeurosis, called luml)ar fascia, which contains the erector spinae and deep muscles of tlie back. Dissection.—The serratus posticus superior must be removed from its origin and turned outwards, to bring into view the whole extent of the splenius muscle. S