SPLENIUS, Tlie SPLENIUS muscle is single at its oririn, but divides soon alter into two jjortions, which are destined to distinct imertions, ll arises from the lower half of the ligamentum nucha?, the spinous process of the last cervical, and spinous processes and interspinous ligaments of the six upper dorsal vertehraj; it divides as it ascends the neck into the splenius cajjitis and splenius colli. The splenius capitis is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone beneath the superior curved line, and posterior border of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. The splenius colli is inserted into tlie posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the three upper cervical vertebrfe. The splenius is separated from its fellow of the opposite side by a triangular interval in which is seen the complexus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the trapezius, sterno- mastoid, levator anguli scapulaj, rhomboideus minor and major, and serratus posticus superior. By its deep surface with the spinalis dorsi, longissimus dorsi, semi-spinalis colli, complexus, trachelo- mastoid, and transversalis cervicis. Nerve-supply.—The great occipital, and the external branches of the posterior di\dsions of the cervical and five upper dorsal nerves. Fourth Layer. Erector sjjinse. Cervicalis ascendens. Transvei'salis cerA'icis. Trachelo-mastoid. Complexus. Dissection.—The two serrati and two sj)lenii muscles must be removed by cutting them away from their origin and insertion, and the vertebral aponeurosis laid open, to bring the fourth layer into view. The muscles of the fourth layer form the greater part of the musculai' mass which fills up the great vertebral groove on each side of the spine ; they are often described collectively under the name of erector spinse ; but this title should correctly be limited to the fleshy and tendinous mass which sjirings from the Ijack of the jielvis and the lumbar vertebrae. When the erector spinse reaches the level of the last rib, the greater part of it di^ddes to form two muscular columns, the outer receiving the name of sacro-lumbalis, the inner of longissimus dorsi; these are continued as they ascend into the muscles of the upper part of the back and neck, their relation to each other being indicated in the subjoined statement. To these two columns a third is added, forming the spinalis dorsi; it is placed the most internally of the three, and is limited to the dorsal and upper lumbar region.