ARTICULATION OF THE TARSAL BONES. 222 and a limited degree of lateral motion is thus allowed ; in flexion, on the other hand, they tit accurately to each other, thus securing that iixation so necessary to the erect posture. Bursae.—The bursas in connection with the ankle-joint are chiefly of the ensheathing or vaginal variety, and are continued for some distance along the tendons on the front and back of the joint. The annular ligament binding down the tendons in front of the joint is divided into three compartments, each of which has its special synovial sheath. The first gives passage to the tibialis anticus, the second to the extensor longus hallucis, and the third is common to the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius. Behind the ankle there is a bursa common to tlie two peronei muscles, one in the course of the flexor longus digitorum, and one in that of the tibialis jjosticus. Nerve-supply.—Branches of the anterior and posterior tibial nerves. 5. ARTICULATION OF THE TARSAL BONES.—The ligaments which connect the seven bones of the tarsus to each other are of three kinds :— Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments are small fasciculi of parallel fibres, which pass from each bone to all the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The only dorsal ligaments deserving of particular men- tion are the external and posterior astragalo-calcaneal, which, with the interosseous ligament, complete the articulation of the astra- galus with the OS calcis; the superior and internal calcaneo-cuboid ligaments ; and the superior astragalo-scaphoid ligament. The internal calcaneo-cuboid, and superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament, which are closely united posteriorly in the deep groove which inter- venes between the astragalus and os calcis, separate anteriorly to reach their respective bones ; they form the principal bond of con- nection between the first and second range of bones of the foot. It is the division of this j)ortion of these ligaments that demands the careful attention of the surgeon in performing Chopart's operation. The plantar ligaments have the same disposition on the plantar surface of the foot; three of them, however, are of large size, and have especial names, viz., the Calcaneo-scaphoid, Long calcaneo-cuboid, Short calcaneo-cuboid. The inferior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament is a broad and fibro- cartilaginous band of ligament which passes forward from the an- terior and inner border of the os calcis to the edge of the scaphoid bone. Besides connecting the os calcis and scajihoid, it supports the astragalus, and forms part of the cavity in which the rounded head of t7ie latter bone is received. It is lined on its upper surface by the synovial membrane of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation.