736 LAllGE INTES'l'INE. through the right himhar region to the under surface of the liver. It then hencls inwards and crosses the upper part of the umbiHcal region under the name of transverse colon; and on the h^ft side descends, descending colon, through the left luniljar region to the left iliac fossa, where it makes a remarkable curve uponitself, which is called the sigmoid flexure. The ascending colon, the most dilated portion of the large intestine, next the cic- cum, is retained in position in the abdo- men either by the pei i- toneum passing simply in front of it or by a narrow meso-colon. It is in relation in front with the small intes- tine and abdominal parietes ; behind witli the quadratus lumlio- rum muscle and right kidney; iiiternally with the small intestine and descending portion of the duodenum ; and by its upper extremity with the under surface of the liver and gall- bladder (hepatic flexure). The transverse colon, the longest portion of the large intestine, forms a curve across the cavity of the abdomen, the convexity of the curve looking forwards and sometimes downwards. It is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver, gall-bladder, stomach, and lower extremity of the spleen ; by its lower surface, with the small intes- tine ; by its anterior surface, with the anterior layers of the great omentum and abdominal parietes ; and, by its posterior surface, 'snth the transverse meso-colon which connects it with the pancreas and duodenum. As it bends downwards to become descending colon it lies in contact with the lower end of the spleen (splenic flexure), and is connected with the inner surface of the ribs and diaijhragm by a peritoneal band (phreno-colic ligament). The transverse colon is the most movable ]mrt of the large intestine. The descending colon is smaller in calibre, and situated more deeply than the ascending colon. It is generally covered by peri- toneimi only in front, but in fully a third of the specimens examined there will be found a complete envelopment by peritoneum and consequent descending meso-colon. It is in relation in front with the Fiii. 449.—CiBcum and ileo-csecal valve, i. Ascending colon. 2. Ctecum. 3. Ilium. 4. Vermiform appendix. 5. Ilio-colic fold. 6. Ilio-ca;cal fold. 7. Frsenula. «