GLOSSAKY OF ANATOMICAL TERMS. Abdomen (Lat. cibdo, I conceal). The inferior cavity of the trunk, con- taining the stomach, intestines, liver, &c. Abductor (Lat. ahduco, I draw from). A muscle which carries the limb cttoay from the middle line of the body, or the digits from the middle line of the hand or foot. AccESSORius (Lat. accedere, to be added to). Muscles or nerves which assist others in their action are thus named. AcERVULUS (dim. of Lat. acervus, a heap). Applied to the mass of gritty particles contained in the pineal body. Acetabulum (Lat. acetabulum, a vessel for holding vinegar). The cup- shaped cavity of the innominate bone which receives the head of the femur. AcHEOMATiN (Gk. a, not, and xP'^l^°'-> colour). The part of a nucleus which does not readily absorb staining fluids. Acini (Lat. acinus, a berry). The small vesicles which form conglomerate glands. Acromion (Gk. aKpov, the extremity, and Wytios, the shoulder). The part of the scapula forming the tip of the shoulder. Adenoid (adrjv, a gland, and e?5os, like). Tissue like that of the lymphatic glands. Adipose (Lat. adeps, fat). Fatty. Adductor (Lat. adduco, I draw to). A muscle which carries the limb towards the middle line of the body, or the digits towards the middle line of the hand or foot. Adventitia (Lat. adventitus, foreign). The outer coat of arteries and veins. Afferent (Lat. ad. to, and/ero, I convey). Vessels or nerves which convey the contents or impulses from the periphery to the centre. Ala (Lat. ala, a wing). Term applied to the lateral lobe of the nose, the expanded part of the external ear, and to certain processes of the sphenoid bone. Alveoli (Lat. alveus, a cavity). The name given to the sockets of the teeth and the air-cells of the lung. AM/EBOID (Gk. a/j-eipo), I change, and elSos, like). Movement like that of the Am(eba, a single-celled organism living in tlie sea and fresh waters. Amphiarthrosis (Gk. afx<pl, both, and dpdpov, a joint. An articulation by means of some intervening substance, as that between the bodies of the vertebrre. Ampulla (Lat. ampid/a, a wine-jug). The dilated end of a canal ; chiefly used for the semicircular canals of the ear.