BLOOD. 5 The blood corpuscles are of two kinds, red and white, the former greatly exceeding the latter in number. In healthy human blood the proportion of white to red corpuscles varies from i to looo to I to 250. According to Vierordt, a cubic millimeter of healthy human blood contains on an average 5,000,000 red corpuscles and 10,000 white ones. The Red Corpuscles are circular, l )iconcave discs, having a diameter of about yjo'oo of an inch, and a thickness of johoa of an inch ; they do not possess a nucleus. In diseased conditions, and occasionally in health, there are also found smaller red corpuscles, about one-third the size of the ordinary ones, and spheroidal in shape. The cor- puscles are elastic, and conse- quently change their shape when subject to compression. When the blood is drawn from the vessels, they tend to aggre- gate together and coliere by their broad surfaces, so as to fig form columns like piles (rou- leaux) of coins. Their shape also varies according to the specific gravity and cliemical composition of tlie fluid in which they are placed. The red corpuscles consist of a tough, elastic, transparent stroma, sup- porting a red crystallisable substance called hcemoglobin (C600H960N154 FeSjOijg), which has a strong affinity for oxygen, and can be separated from the corpuscles by certain simple processes in the form of rhombic crystals. The White Corpuscles are larger than tlie red ones, having a dia- meter of osVo "^^^ ^^"^^^^' when at rest, they are spherical and have a gi'anular apjjearance, but they have power of changing their shape, and putting out processes in the manner above de- ■=r-^V R scribed as amse- boid motion. They are trans- parent masses of ^^'<5- 6.—White corpuscles of the blood undergoing amaeboid protoi)lasm, and changes, po.ssess one or more nuclei, have no cell-wall, and frequently con- tain granules, oi' minute masses of red colouring matter. Sometimes they also contain clear spaces or vacuoles. Having the ^lower of pa.ssing through the walls of the blood-vessels and travelling from place to i)lac(j, they are found in the tissues, and are there described -Blood corpuscles, i. Red corpuscle, seen from surlace. 2. Red corpuscle, seen from the edge. 3. A group of red cor- puscles adherent by their surfaces, and forming a rouleaa. 4. Tlirce-quarter face. 5. Slightly crenated. 6, 7. Crenated corpus- cles. 8. Spherical. 9. Large wiiite corpuscle. 10. Granular leucocyte. 11. Hasniatoblasts.