4i8 ABDOMINAL AORTA. or rather on the external intercostal muscle, each artery gives off a dorsal branch, which passes back between the transverse processes of the vertebra?, lying internally to the middle costo-transverse liga- ment, and divides into a spinal branch, which supplies the spinal cord and vertebrae., and a muscular hninch, distributed to the muscles and integument of the back. The intercostal artery then comes into relation with its vein and nerve, the former being above, the latter below, and ascends obli(iuely to the lower border of the rib, with which it conies into relation near the angle of the bone. It then runs along the lower border of the rib, lying between the two planes of intercostal muscles to the front of the chest, where it inosculates with the superior anterior intercostal branch of the in- ternal mammary. Besides the dorsal branch and several small muscular branches, the intercostal artery, at about the middle of its course, gives off a large inferior branch, which runs along the upper border of the rib below to the fore-part of the chest, and inosculates with the inferior anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary. While between the two planes of intercostal muscles, the inter- costal artery is protected i'rom pressure by little tendinous arches thrown across it and attached by each extremity to the bone. The upper pair of intercostal arteries inosculate with the superior inter- costals of the subclavian ; the lower intercostals anastomose with the lumbar and epigastric arteries in the parietes of the abdomen. The abdominal aorta enters the abdomen through the aortic open- ing of the diaphragm, and between the two pillarri of that muscle. In its course downwards, it lies on the vertebral column to the left of the middle line, and terminates on the fourth lumbar vertebra, by dividing into the two common iliac arteries. Its point of bifurca- tion is situated a little below and to the left of the level of the umbilicus. Plan of the Eelations of the Abdominal Aorta. In Front. Lesser omentum and stomach, Branches of coeliac axis and solar j)lexus, Splenic vein, Pancreas, Left renal vein, Transverse duodenum, Mesentery, Aortic plexus. ABDOMINAL AORTA. Might Side. Left. Side. Right crus of diaphragm, Vena cava, Right semilunar ganglion, Thoracic duct, Vena azygos major. Abdominal Aorta. Left semilunar ganglion, Left supra-renal capsule. Sympathetic nerve.