CEREBELLUM. centre will be seen an irregular mass of grey matter, forming a wavy line, and enclosing white matter ; this is the C(yrpu8 dentahm It exists as a grey capsule or pouch, which, however, is defective at its inner part. If the section Ijc made I'ather nearer to tlie under surface of the cere- ,_ bellum than its centre, other g^j^iat nuclei will be displayed in the 1 ^li ^ white centre. These are three in number on each side, and are named the nucleus fas- tigii, nucleus globosus, and nucleus emboliformis (Fig. 309). The nucleus fastigii is situated near the middle line ; it is rounded in front, but behind becomes forked. The nuclei (jlohosi generally con- sists of two or three round grey spots a little external to the ]Dreceding. The nucleus emboliformis is a club-shaped mass of grey matter running antero-posteriorly close to the inner side of the corpus den- tatum. Minute Structure, — The grey cortex is divisible into two layers, the outer being of a clear grey colour, and the inner rust- coloured and granular in ap- pearance. The external layer consists of a delicate neuroglia supporting nerve-fibres and nerve-cells ; the fibres run for the most jDart at right angles to the surface of the cerel:)ellum, and many of them are connected with the processes of the cells below; the cells are very small, and have the appearance of granules. The inner layer is formed also of granule-like cells very closely aggregated, and embedded in a gelatinous matrix. Between the inner and outer laj^ers is a single layer of peculiar cells called cells of Purhinje; they are chiefly flask-shaped, and give oft" from their deep aspect a single process which becomes connected with the axis-cylinder of a nerve in the white centre ; from its super- ficial surface each cell gives off two processes which branch very freely in an antler-like manner, some of their finer processes becoming connected with the round cells of the outer layer. Fig. 309.—Part of the white centre of the cerebeUuni, showing the nuclear masses. li. Lingula. c. Commissurul fibres, a. Nucleus fastigii. g, g'^, and r/'-. Nuclei globosi. e. Nucleus emboliformis. d. Corpus dentatum. v.i. Inferior vermi- form process, a.v. Arbor vitas cerebelli. The