27 MUSCLE. •anal. Many of the cells become embedded in tlie new deposit, md remain througliout life, the cavities in which they lie con- jtituting the lacunce, and by their communication with neighbouring cells they establish a series of smaller pores in the lione, which we have "spoken of as canaliculi. The medullary sinuses nearest the centre of a long bone become enlarged 1)}^ further absorption of their walls, and merge into each other, so as to form a single cavity, which is filled with marrow and remains as the medullary canal. Many of the smaller sjjaces also retain their marrow and are not filled up by bone ; they then form the cavities—and their walls form the fine spicules—of cancellous tissue. The growth of long bones takes i^Rce in length by the further ossification of the groAving cartilage (efipliysial cartilage) be- tween the shaft and extremity, and in thickness by the deposition of new bone between the periosteum and the shaft, this being ahvays accompanied by reabsorption of the interior, so that the medullary canal becomes increased in size. This absorption is brought about by the agency of large cells of varying sliape and size, haAdng many clear nuclei, which are numerous in foetal marrow and have lieen spoken of above as myeloplaxes or giant- cells ; here, hoAvever, they receive the name of osteoclasts. Subperi- osteal growth takes place by a process identical in all essential particulars with what we have described above as intraniembranoixs ossification. Cartilaginification is complete in the human embryo at about the sixth week ; and the first point of ossification is observed in the clavicle at about the fifth week. Ossification commences at the centre, and thence ])roceeds towards the surface ; in flat bones the o.sseous ti.ssue radiates between two membranes from a central point towards the periphery, in short bones from a centre towards the circumference, and in long bones from a central portion, diaphysis, towards a secondaiy centre, epiphysis, situated at each extremity. Large processes, as the trochanters, are i)rovided with a distinct centre of development. MUSCLE. Muscles are the moving organs of the animal frauie ; they con- stitute by their size and number the great bulk of the bodyj upon which they bestow form and symmetry. In the limbs they are situated around the Ijoues, which they invest and defend, while they form to some of the joints a principal protection. In the trunk they are spread out to enclose cavities and constitute a de- fensive wall, capable of yielding to intei-nal pressure, and again returning to its original petition. Their colour presents the deep red which is characteristic of flesh, and their form is vai'iously modifled, to execute the varied range of movements which they are required to efl\;ct.