LARGE INTESTINE. 735 pudic, in tlie pelvis. The veins from the abdominal alimentary canal'unite to form the vena portse. The lymphatics and ladeals open into the thoracic duct. The nerves of the pharynx and oesophagus are derived from the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and sympathetic. The nerves of the stomach are the pneumogastric, and sympathetic branches from the solar plexus ; and those of the intestinal canal are the superior and inferior mesenteric and hypogastric plexuses. The extremity of the rectum is supplied by the inferior sacral nerves from the spinal cord. The nerves distributed to the small intestine form two plexuses, one between the longitudinal and circular muscular fibres, and the other in the submucous tissue : the former is described as Auer- bach's plexus (plexus myentericus); it gives off a number of minute filaments which ramify in the midst of the muscular fibres and are distributed to them: the latter is named Meissner's plexus ; it consists of fibres which are much finer than those of the inter- muscular plexus, and pass to the mucous membrane. Both plexuses are remarkable for the large number of minute ganglia Avhich they ( contain. LARGE INTESTINE. The large intestine, five or six feet and sometimes more in length, sacculated and thicker than tlie small intestine, tapers gradually from above downwards, and is divided into ccecum, colon, and rectum. It is distinguished from the small intestine by four character's, namely, its size, sacculation, the existence of three longitudinal bands, and the presence in connection with it of little fringes of fat called appendices epiploicce. The caecum (caput coli) is the blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, about two inches and a half in length, situated at the commencement of the large intestine. It is lodged in the right iliac fossa, and re- tained in its place by the peritoneum which passes round it and forms posteriorly a short meso-caecum. Attached to its extremity is the appendix vermiformis, a long worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened ca3cum found in all maramiferous animals except man, the higher quadrumana, and the wombat. The appendix varies in length from one to five or six inches ; it is about equal in diameter to a goose-quill, and is connected with the posterior and left aspect of the caecum near the extremity of the ileum. It is usually more or less coiled upon itself, and retained in that coil by a falciform 1 duplicature of peritoneum. Its canal is extremely small, and the [ orifice by which it opens into the caecum not unfrequently provided with an incomplete valve. The caecum is the most dilated portion of the large intestine, and is distinguished from the colon externally by the constriction corresponding with the entrance of the ileum, and internally by the ileo-caecal or ileo-colic valve. The colon is divided into ascending, transverse, and descending. The ascending colon passes upwards from the right iliac fossa,