ORGAN OF VISION. 634 site). The pointed process, projecting like a valve over the openiii<,' of the ear, from the face, is the tragus {epdyos, a goat), prohal.l\ from being sometimes covered with bristly hair like that of a goat ; and a tubercle opposite this is the antitragus. The lower depen- dent and fleshy portion of the pinna is the lobule. The spa-c between the helix and antihelix is named the fossa of the helix (scaphoid or innominate fossa). Another depression at the uppi !■ extremity of the antihelix, produced by a Ijifurcation of that ridgi-, is the fossa of the antihelix (ovil or triangular fossa); and the laitri- central space, to which all the chan- nels converge, the concha, whi( li oj)ens directly into the meatus. The pinna is composed of integu- ment, fihro - cartilage, ligaments, and muscles. The integument is thin, contains an abundance of sebaceous gland-, and is closely connected with tlie fibro-cartilage. The fibro-cartilage gives form to the pinna, and is folded so as to produce the various convexities and grooves which have been described on its surface. The helix begins in the concha, and partially divides that cavity into two parts ; on it- anterior border, where it commences Fig. 369.—K.Meniai ear. h. Helix, its curve iipwards, is a tubercle or ah. Antihelix. //i Fossa of the • | j^^^jg ^^^^^.^ ^his a small la of the antihehx. i £. ,i „ vertical fissure, the fissure of the helix. The termination of the helix and antihelix forms a lengthened process, the processus caudatus, which is separated from the concha by an extensive fissure. On the anterior surface of the tragus is another fissure, the fissure of the tragus ; and, in the lobule, the fibro-cartilage is wanting. The fibro-cartilage of tlie meatus is divided from the concha by several fissures (fissures of Santorini), and at the upper and anterior part of the cylinder is a considerable space, which is closed by muscular and ligament- ous fibres ; it is firmly attached at its termination to the processus auditorius. The fibro-cartilage of the pinna and meatus is of the yellow variety. The ligaments of the external ear are those which attach llie pinna to the side of the head—viz., anterior, posterior, and ligament of the tragus ; and those of the fibro-cartilage, which serve to pre- serve its folds and connect the opposite margins of the fissures. The latter are two in number, the ligament between the concha and processus caudatus, and the broad ligament wliich extends from the helix, fall. Fossa ( tr. Tragns. at. Autitragus. m. External meatus, c. Concha. 1. Lobule.