6oo SYMPATHETIC NERVES. constituting the naso-palatine ganglion. The existence of this gan- glion is disputed. The naso-palatine nerves are directly continuous with the spheno-palatine, derived from the superior maxillary, and are unconnected with the nerve cells of the ganglion. The posterior branches are the Vidian or pterygoid nerve, and the pterygo-palatine. The Vidian nerve, connected with the back part of the ganglion, passes directly backwards through the pterygoid or Vidian canal to the foi'amen lacerum basis cranii, where it divides into two branches, carotid and petrosal. The carotid branch crosses the foramen lacerum, surrounded by the cartilaginous substance Avhich closes that opening, and enters the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. The petrosal branch enters the cranium through the foramen lacerum basis cranii, piercing the cartilaginous substance, and passes backwards beneath the Gasserian ganglion and dura mater, embedded in a groove on the anterior surface of the petrous bone to the hiatus Fallopii. In the hiatus Fallopii it receives a branch from Jacob- son's nerve, and terminates in the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial nerve. The Vidian nerve contains both the motor and sympathetic roots of Meckel's ganglion, and most observers agree in regarding the motor power as derived from the facial nerve ; others, however, con- sider it to come from the spinal accessory or the glosso-pharyngeal. The pterygo-palatine nerve is a small branch which passes back- wards through the pterygo-palatine canal with the pterygo-palatine artery, to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the Eustachian tube and neighbouring part of the pharynx. Roots.—The spheno-palatine ganglion gets its motor root from the facial, spinal accessory, or glosso-pharyngeal, through the Vidian nerve, its sensory roots are the spheno-palatine branches of the supe- rior maxillary, and its sympathetic root is derived from the carotid plexus through the Vidian nerve. The OTIC GANGLION (Ai'uold's) is a small oval-shaped and flattened ganglion, lying against the inner surface of the inferior maxillary nerve, close to the foramen ovale ; it is in relation, ex- ternally, with the trunk of that nerve, just at the point of union of the motor root; internally it rests against the cartilage of the Eustachian tube and tensor palati muscle; and posteriorly is in contact with the arteria meningea media. It is closely adherent to the internal pterygoid nerve, and appears like a swelling on that nerve. The branches of the otic ganglion are six in number ; two of dis- tribution and four of comnnuiication. The branches of distribution are—a small filament to the tensor tympani muscle, and one or two to the tensor palati. The branches of communication are—one or two filaments from the inferior maxillary nei've ; one or two filaments to the auriculo- temporal nerve, distributed with it to the parotid gland ; fila- ments from the nervi molles of the arteria meningea media, and the