MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 3o8 Tlie central tendinous point of the perineum is situated in the ]nid(l]e line of tlie perineum, midway between tlie anus and bulb of the ui-ethra. It forms the meeting-point of a numbei- of the perineal muscles ; these are the bulbo-cavernosus, transversus perinei, external sphincter ani, and levator ani muscles of the two sides. Dissection.—Part of the levator ani may be seen during the dis- section of the anal portion of the perineum hy removing the fat from the ischio-rectal fossa. But to study the entire muscle, a lateral section of the pehds must be made by sawing through the pubes a little to one side of the symphysis, separating the l)ones behind at the sacro-iliac symphysis, and turning down the bladder and rectum. The sj)ine of the ischium should be cut off with the bone forcej)S or saw, so as to leave it in connection Avith the leA'ator ani and pelvic fascia. The pelvic fascia is then to l^e carefully raised, beginning at the base of the bladder, and jn'oceeding up- wards, until the whole extent of the muscle is exposed. The LEVATOR ANI is a thin plane of muscular fibres, situated at eacli side of the pelvis. The muscle arises from the inner surface of the OS pubis near the puliic arch, from the base and upper border of the spine of the ischium, and between those points, from a ten- dinous arch which occupies the line of division of the pelvic fascia into parietal and Adsceral layers, and is called the white line. It> fibres descend to be inserted into its fellow of the opposite side be- neath the prostate gland, into the rectum, and behind the rectum into its fellow of the opposite side and the side of the extremity of the coccyx. Its anterior filires are sometimes described separately, iinder the name of levator ■prostati. In the female this muscle has an additional insertion into the vagina. Relations.—By its external or _?jen?(,ea? surface, with the anal fascia, by which it is separated from the ischio-rectal fossa ; -n-itli the fat in the ischio-rectal fossa, triangular ligament, sphincter ani, and posteriorly, gluteus maximus. By its internal or pelvic surface with the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the viscera of the pelvis and peritoneum. Its posterior border is continuous with the coccygeus muscle. Nerve-supply.—The anterior branch of the fourth sacral. The COCCYGEUS muscle, thin and triangular, arises from the pelvic surface of the spine of the ischium and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, and spreads out to be inserted into the side of the coccyx and lower part of the sacrum. . Relations.—By its internal or jjeZuic surface with the ca\-]ty ot the pelvis and rectum ; by its external surface with the lesser sacro- iscliiatic ligament; and by its borders with the pyriformis liehnid, and levator ani in front. Nerve-supply.—The fourth and fifth sacral and coccygeal nerves. FEMALE PERINEUM.—The muscles of the perineum in tlic female are the same as in the male, and have rec^,ived analogou^ names. They are smaller in size, and are modified to suit tne difference of form of the organs ; they are—