LIGAMENTS OF THE ATLAS AND AXIS. 187 These ligaments serve to limit the extent of rotation of the head ; hence they are termed check ligaments. 4. ARTICULATION OF THE ATLAS WITH THE AXIS.—The liga- ments of this articulation are five in number :— Anterior atlanto-axial, Two capsular, Posterior atlanto-axial, Transverse. The anterior ligament consists of ligamentous fibres which pass from the anterior tubercle and arch of the atlas to the base of the odontoid j)rocess and body of the axis, where they are continuous with the commencement of the anterior common ligament. The fibres in the middle form a thick band which is tense in all positions of the joints ; the lateral jjortions are thin, and assist in limiting the rotation of the atlas on the axis. The posterior ligament is a thin, membranous layer, passing between the posterior arch of the atlas and the laminte of the axis ; it represents the ligamenta subflava in a rudimentary state, and has on its deep or anterior surface a layer of dense elastic fibres, like those of the latter. The capsular ligaments surround the articular process of the atlas and axis ; they are loose, to permit of the free movement which exists between these A^ertebras. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous on the outer and anterior part of the articulation ; and the synovial vievibrane of each joint often communicates with the synovial cavity between the transverse ligament and odontoid process. The transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band, which arches across the area of the ring of the atlas from a rough tubercle Fig. 154.—Posterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, axis, and occipital bone. The posterior part of the occi- pital bone has been sawn away, and the arches of the atlas and axis removed. 1. Superior part of the occipitn-axi:il ligament, which has been cut away iu order to show the ligaments beneath. 2. Transverse ligament of the atlas. 3. 4. Ascending and descending slips of the transverse ligament, which liave ob- tained for it the title of cruciform liga- ment. 5. One of the lateral odontoid ligaments; the fellow-ligament is seen on the opposite side. 6. One of the occipito- atlantal capsidar ligaments. 7. One of the atlanto-axial capsular ligaments. on the inner surface of one articular process to a corresponding tubercle on the other; and serves to retain the odontoid process of the axis in connection with the anterior arch of the atlas. As it crosses the neck of the odontoid process, some fibres are sent down- wards to be attached to the body of the axis, and others pass upwards to be inserted into the basilar process of the occipital bone ; hence the ligament has a cross-like appearance, and is termed cruciform. A synovial membrane is situated between the transverse ligament