METACARPUS. 152 Tlie metacarpal hone of the thumb is one-third shorter than the rest, flattened and broad on its dorsal aspect, and convex on its palmar side ; the articular surface of the head is not so round as that of the other metacarpal bones ; and the base lias a single proximal saddle- shaped surface, to articulate with the corresponding surface of the trapezium. It has no lateral facets. The metacarpal bones of the different fingers may be distinguished by certain special characters. The base of the metacarpal bone of the index finger is the largest of the four, and presents three articular facets at its proximal extremity for the trapeziuin, trapezoid, and os magnum, and one on its ulnar side for the third metacarjjal. It may most readily be identified by its j)roximal articular surface being divided into two, so as to present a notched appearance. That of the middle finfier may be distinguished hj a rounded projecting process at the radial side of its base {styloid process) for the attach- ment of the tendon of the extensor carpi radialis brevior, and two small circular facets on its ulnar lateral surface. The l)ase of the metacarpal bone of the ring finger is small and squai'e, and has two small circular facets on the radial side to correspond with those of the middle metacarpal, and one on the ulnar side for the metacarpal of the little finger. The nutacarjJal bone of the little finger has only one lateral articular surface, namely, on the radial side. Development.—By tioo centres; one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, with the exception of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, the ejiiphysis of which, like that of the phalanges, occupies the carpal end of the bone. Ossification of the metacarpal bones commences in the embryo during the eighth or ninth week, that is, soon after the bones of the fore-arm. The ejnphyses make their appearance at the end of the second or early in the tliird year, arid the bones are completed at twenty. Articulations.—The_/i? s^ with the trapezium ; second, trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and middle metacarpal; third or middle, os magnum, and adjoining metacarpal bones ; fourth, os magnum, unci- form, and adjoining metacai'pal bones ; fifth., unciform, and meta- carpal bone of the ring finger. Each bone also articulates with its appropriate proximal phalanx. Attachment of Muscles.—To the metacarpal bone of the thumb, three, flexor ossis metacarpi, extensor ossis metacarpi, and first dorsal interosseous ; index finger, six, extensor carpi radialis longior, flexor brevis pollicis, flexor carpi radialis, first and second dorsal and first palmar interosseous ; middle finger, stx, extensor carpi radialis bre- vior, flexor brevis pollicis, flexor carpi radialis, adductor pollicis, second and third dorsal interosseous ; ring finger, three, third and fourth dorsal interosseous, and second palmar ; little finger, four, extensor carpi ulnaris, flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti, fourth dorsal and third palmar interosseous.