176 ARTHROLOGY. overliang the joint, airorrling protection against external injury, as well as giving greater leverage to the muscles ; this ai-raiigeme^t may be noticed in the elbow, ankle, and wrist joints. The airtilage found in joints is of two kinds, hyaliije atjfil filito. cartilage. The former is known as true articular cartilage, or cfirti- lage of incrustation ; it coats the articular surfaces of the Ijones, and is generally so arranged as to increase the depth of articular ^xvitia"^ and the prominence of articular convexities, being in the one case thickest at its edges, and in the other in the middle. Fibro-cartilage is in amphi-arthrodial joints the connecting medium ])inding the bones together ; in diarthrodial joints it forms encircling l)ands which deepen the articular cavities, or it occurs as conca\'e discs (interarticular fil )ro-cartilages) which divide the joint into two parts, each part having its own synovial membrane. Areolar and adiijone tissue are used for filling up the interstices in and around joints, so as to ensure the perfect adaptation of the articular surfaces to each other ; in joints (such as tlie knee) whicli received little protection from the surrounding muscles, the amount of fat found among the ligaments and beneath the superficial fascia is relatively very large. The ligaments which connect the bones together are for the most part foi'med of strong l)ands of white fibroiis tissue, \mi in some feAv a slight admixture of yellow fibres niay be observed, and those con- necting the laminae of the vertebroe (ligamenta subflava) are entirely formed of yellow or elastic tissue. In the joints possessing the freest moA'ement the ligaments form a fibrous envelope which en- tirely surrounds and encloses the articular surfaces—these are called capsular ligavients; in those enjoying the next degree of mobility the ligaments exist as flattened bands arranged in front, l>eliind, aiid at the sides of the articulation. Some few joints have ligamen- tous bands in their interior ; examples of these are the ligamentum teres of the hi}) and crucial ligaments of the knee ; they are en- closed in a tube formed of synovial membrane. The synovial membrane lines the whole of the interior of the joint, except where the articular cartilage is interposed ; it is smooth and glistening on the inner surface, rough externally where it becomes attached to the bones and ligaments ; it often forms folds, Avhich project into the interior of the joint and contain masses of fat with loops of capillary vessels. Besides the structures which form the joints, others also contribute to keep the articular ends of the bones in place, and to ensure due and smooth movement ; of these the most important are the muwlcs and bursce. The muscles not only act as the agents of motion, but are of essential service in maintaining the structures of the joint in their proper relative position, supporting the ligaments by their tonic contraction, and in some instances acting directly on the synovial membrane so as to jjrevent its becoming stpieezed between the ends of the bones. In the shoulder-joint the tendon of a muscle passes through the synovial cavity, and in both that joint and the knee the