MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. 532 be seen until the brain is removed ; but tlie attacliments of the former sliould be studied on the dried skull, for it will have to be incised in the removal of the brain. That operation sliould now be performed, for which piu'pose divide the dura mater all round, on a level with'the section through the skull, and carry the scissors deeply between the hemispheres of the brain in front, to cut through the anterior part of the falx ; then draw the dura mater backwards, and leave it hanging by its attachment to the tentorium. Raise the anterior loljes of the brain carefullv with the hand, and lift the olfactoiy bulbs from the cribriform fossse with the handle of the scalpel. Then cut across the two optic nerves and internal carotid arteries. Next divide the infundibulum and third nerves, and carry the knife along the margin of the petrous bone at each side, so as to divide the tentorium near its attacnment. Cut across in succession the other pairs of cranial nerves with a sharp knife, and pass the scalpel as far down as possible into the vertebral canal, to sever the spinal cord, cutting first to one side, and then to the other, in order to divide the vertebral arteries and spinal accessory nerves. Then press the cerebellum gently upwards with the fingers of the right hand, the hemispheres being supported with the left, and the brain will roll into the hand. The arteries of the dura mater are—the anterior meningeal from the ethmoidal, ophthalmic, and internal carotid ; the middle menin- geal and lesser meningeal from the internal maxillary ; the inferior meningeal from the ascending jiharyngeal and occipital arteries ; and the posterior meningeal from the vertebral. Its nerves are derived from the nervi molles and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, from the Gasserian ganglion, the oph- thalmic nerve, and from the foiirth and hypoglossal. The dnra mater is composed of two lamellas, endosteal and proi^er meningeal; the former adheres to the bones, the latter forms the internal processes, whilst the sinuses result from the separation of the two. It consists of interwoven bands of white fibrous tissue, with some admixture of elastic filires ; its inner surface is lined with flattened micleated endothelial cells. The space between the dura mater and arachnoid is called the sub- dural space ; it was formerly known as the cavity of the arachnoid. The arachnoid {apaxvr] eldos, like a spider's web) is a delicate membrane which invests the brain externally to the pia mater. On the upper surface of the hemispheres it is transparent, ljut may be demonstrated as it passes across the sulci from one convolution to another by injecting with a blow-pipe a stream of air lieneath it. At the base of the l)rain the membrane is opalescent and thicker than in other situations, and more easily demonstrable from the circumstance of sti'etching across the interA^al between the temporal lol)es of the hemispheres. The space which is included betAveen this layer of membrane and those parts of the base of the brain which are bounded by the optic commissure and fissures of Syl\'ius in front, and the pons Varolii behind, is termed the anterior stib-