CRANIAL NERVES. 558 The cervical cardiac branches, two or three in number, arise from the upper and lower part oi' the cervical portion of the nerve. Those from above communicate with cardiac branches of the sympathetic. One large branch {inferior cardiac) is given off just before tlie nerxc enters the chest ; on the right this branch descends by the side of the arteria innominata to the deep cardiac plexus ; on the left it passes in front of the arch of the aorta to the superficial cardiac plexus. One or two cardiac branches also proceed from the thoracic ]Jortion of the right pneumogastric nerve and end in the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior, or recurrent larnygeal nerve, curves around tlic subclavian artery on the right, and the arch of the aorta on the left side. It ascends in the groove between the trachea antl oesophagus, and piercing the lower fibres of the inferior constrictoi' muscle enters the larynx close to the articulation of the inferior cornu of the thyroid with the cricoid cartilage. It is distributed to all the muscles of the larjaix, with the exception of the crico-thyroiil, and communicates with the superior laryngeal nerve. As it cur\ e.s around the subclavian artery and aorta it gives branches (cardiac) to the dee]) cardiac plexus and root of the lungs ; and as it ascends the neck it distributes filaments to the cesophagus and trachea, and communicates with the external laryngeal nerve and symiDathetic. The anterior pulmonary branches, two or three in number, arc disti'ibuted upon the anterior aspect of the root of the lungs, form- ing, with branches from the cardiac plexuses, the anterior pulmonani plexus. The posterior pulmonary branches, more numerous and larger than the anterior, are distributed on the posterior aspect of the root of the lungs ; they are joined l)y filaments from the third and fourth thoracic ganglia of the sympathetic, and form the posterior pulmonary plexus. CEsophageal branches are given off by the pneumogastric nerve? . above the root of the lungs; below that point, the trunks of the nerves, divided into several cords, form a plexus aroimd the ooso- phagus, the right and left nerves communicating with each othei'. This plexus accompanies the oesophagus to the stomach, and is the oesophageal plexus (plexus gula^). The gastric branches are the terminal filaments of the pneumo- gastric nerves ; they are spread out upon the anterior and posterior surface of the stomach, and ai'e likewise distributed to the omen- tum, spleen, pancreas, liver, and gall-bladder. The branches of the anterior aspect of tlie stomach proceed from the left nerve and com- municate with the hepatic plexus in the lesser omentum ; those of the posterior aspect are derived from the right nerve and com- municate Avith the solar plexus.