PHRENIC NEEVE. 567 to the muscles of the front of the vertebral colnuin and side of the neck. From the loop, between the first and second nerve, branches are given to the anterior recti; from_ the second cervical nerve a branch proceeds to the sterno-mastoid; from the third and foicrth nerve branches are distributed to the trapezius, levator anguli scapulte, scalenus medius, and scalenus posticus. The branch to the trapezius communicates with the spinal accessory nerve. The phrenic nerve (internal respiratory of Bell) is formed by the union of filaments from the fourth and fifth _ cervical nerves, and is joined by a communication from the combined cord of the fifth and sixth and a filament from the sympathetic. It descends to the root of the neck, resting on the scalenus anticus muscle, crosses the first portion of the subclavian artery, and enters the chest between it and the subclavian vein, passing over the com- mencement of the internal mammary artery. Within the chest it passes downwards through the middle mediastinmn, lying between the pleura and pericardium, and in front of the root of the lung, to the diaphragm ; near the diaphragm it divides into branches which pierce that muscle, and are distributed on its under surface. Some of its filaments reach the abdomen through the openings for the ccsophagus and vena cava, and communicate with the phrenic and solar plexus, and on the right side with the hepatic plexus. The left phrenic nerve is longer than the right, from the inclination of the heart to the left side, and crosses the arch of the aorta. The right nerve is situated more deeply in the upper part of the chest than the left, and lies in contact with the right innominate vein and superior vena cava; at its termination it forms a plexus with branches derived from the solar plexus, and in this there is usually a small ganglion (phrenic ganglion). Each nerve is accompanied by the artei-ia comes nervi jDhrenici, a brancli of the internal mammary, and by two veins. POSTERIOR CERVICAL NERVES.—The posterior divisions of the cervical nerves issue fi'om between the tranverse processes, and divide into an internal-and external branch. The internal branch is directed inwards towards the middle of the spine, and, becoming cutaneous near the spinous processes of the vertebras, is then re- flected outwards to supply the integument. The external branch, smaller than the internal, is distributed to the muscles of the outer portion of the vertel)i'al groove. The posterior division of the first cervical nerve (suboccipital), larger than the anterior, escaj^es from.tlie spinal canal through the opening for the vertebral artery, lying posteriorly to that vessel, and emerges in the suboccipital tiiangle. It is distributed to the recti, obliqui, and complexus, and sends a branch downwards to com- municate with the second cervical nerve ; it has no external branch, _ The posterior cord of the second cervical nerve is three or four times larger than its anterior cord, and exceeds in size the other posterior cervical nerves. Its internal branch is the occipitalis major nerve.