THYMUS BODY. 69s tlie two innominate veins, commencement of the superior vena cava, and termination of the vena azygos major. THYMUS BODY. The thymus is a temporary organ, which is of large size in the young child, but in the adult is reduced so as to become a mere vestige ; it occupies the anterior mediastinum^ and lies in relation with the pleurae and pericardium. In its mature state it consists of a thoracic and a cervical portion on each side. The former is situated in the anterior mediastinum, and the latter is placed in the neck just above the first bone of the sternum and behind the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles. It extends upwards from the fourth rib as high as the thyroid gland, resting against the pericardium, separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by fdscia, and lying at each side of the trachea in the neck. Although described usually as a single mass, it consists actually of two lateral, almost symmetrical lobes, connected with each other .by areolar tissue only, and having no structural communication ; they may therefore be properly called a right and left tliymus body. The thymus is perceptible as early as the seventh week of em- bryonic existence, and continues gradually increasing Avith the growth of the f cetus until the seventh month. At the eighth month it is large ; during the ninth it undergoes a sudden change, assumes a greatly increased size, and at birth weighs 240 grains. After birth it continues to enlarge until the expiration of the second year, when it ceases to grow, and begins to diminish between the eighth and twelfth year, being often well developed at the age of twenty, and only disajDpearing entirely before forty. The two lateral lobes of which it consists, are of an elongated pyramidal form, with their bases resting on the pericardium, and tlieir apices reaching to the thyroid Ijody. Each lobe consists of a number of polyhedral lobules, held together by connective tissue, and enclosed in a fibrous capsule. The lobules, somewhat more than a quarter of an inch in dia- meter, are composed of smaller lobules, and the smaller lobules are made iip of small round or polygonal solid masses, the nodules or follicles. These are in every respect similar in structure to the lymphoid masses found in other parts of the body, as, for instance, in the tonsils, and the solitary and agminate glands of the intestine. They consist of retiform tissue, the meshes of which are crowded with lymph corpuscles ; at the circumference of each nodule tlie retiform tissue is closer so as to form a sort of capsule. Scattered throughout the retiform tissue are peculiar, highly refracting corpuscles, which present an appearance of concentric striation, and have been named the concentric corimsclcs of Hassall. The arteries of the thymus gland are derived from the internal