456 SINUSES OF THE DURA. MATER. single trunk which runs in the attached border of the falx cerehelli, and terminates in the torcular Herophili. They communicate with the posterior spinal veins, and not vmfrequently with the ter- mination of the lateral sinuses. The lateral sinuses are vari- able in their origin, but most frequently the right is formed by the superior longitudinal sinus and the left by the straight sinus. They pass outwards, in the attached margin of the tentorium, and then curve doAvn- wards and inwards along the base of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, at each side, to the posterior compartment of the jugular foramina, where they terminate in the internal jugu- lar veins. Each sinus rests in its course on the lateral groove of the occijDital bone, posterior inferior angle of the parietal, mastoid ijortion of the temporal, and again on the occij^ital bone. They receive the cerebral veins from the inferior surface of the posterior lobes, the inferior cere- bellar veins, superior petrosal sin- FiG. 276.—Sinuses of the base of the skull. I. Ophthalmic veins. 2. Caver- nous sinus of one side. 3. Circular sinus : the figure occupies the position of the pituitary gland in the sella tur- cica. 4. Inferior petrosal sinus. 5 Transverse sinus. 6. Superior petrosal ^^ggg mastoid and posterior COU- sinus. 7. Internal 3ngular vein. 8. - - ' - - 1 Foramen magnum. 9. Occipital sin- uses. 10. Torcular Herophili. Lateral sinuses. dylar veins, and often the veins II. II- from the occipital diploe. These sinuses are often unequal in size, the right being larger than the left. The cavernous sinuses are named from presenting in their in- terior a reticular struc- ture similar to that of cavernous tissue. They are situated at each side of the sella turcica, recei^^ng, an- teriorly, the ophthal- mic veins through the sphenoidal fissures, and the spheno-pari- etal sinuses, and ter- niinating posteriorly in the inferior petrosal sinuses. In the walls of the cavernous sinus are the internal carotid artery, several filament.'^ of the carotid plexus, the third, fourth, ophthalmic division oi tlie Fig. 277.—Cavernous siuus. I. Sphenoidal cells. 2. Pituitary body. 3. Third nerve. 4. Fourth nerve. 5. Ophthalmic division of ; fifth nerve. 6. Sixth nerve. 7. Superior maxillary divi- sion of fifth nerve. 8. In- ternal carotid artery. 9, 9. Cavernous sinus.