PEKITONEUM. 700 fossa where it covers the sigmoid flexure (sigmoid meso-colou) ; it is then continued on to the alDdominal wall, terminating at the iioint whence we set out. Above the transverse colon tlie arrangement is moi complicated, in consequence of the existence of two cavities, a greali-i' and a lesser. Beginning at the middle line we may trace the peri- toneum over the right kidney into the right hypochondrium ; it then passes across the body in front of the pancreas, and returns from left to right along the posterior surface of the stomach, .so as to reacli the foramen of Winslow, where it forms the posterior layer of tlie lesser omentiim. It now becomes reflected on itself round the struc- tures (hej)atic artery, portal vein, and common bile duct) formiug the pillar of the foramen of Winslow, and constitutes the anterioi layer of the lesser omentum. Passing over the anterior surface of the stomach, it is continued on the spleen, which it encloses (form- ing the gastro - splenic omentum), and so passes to the left hypochondrium, and from thence to the anterior wall of tin- abdomen. Processes of Peritoneum.—The folds of peritoneum serve the purpose of connecting the viscera with the abdominal M'all or with each other, and thus limiting their movement. Those attached to the stomach are called omenta (greater, lesser, and gastro-sflenk); those attaching the hollow viscera to the wall have the jirefix meso-, as mesentery, meso-colon, meso-csecum, meso-sigmoid, &c.; other folds more limited in extent receive the name of ligaments, such as those of the liver, stomach, urinary bladder, and uterus. The following is a brief description of these processes :— The lesser omentum (gastro-hepatic) is the duplicature which passes between the Hver and the uiDjjer border of the stomach. It is extremely thin, excepting at its right border, where it is free, and contains l)etween its layers the— Hepatic artery, Portal vein, Common bile duct. Lymphatics, Hepatic plexus of nerves. These structures are enclosed in a loose areolar tissue called Glis- son's capsule. The relative position of the three vessels is, the artery to the left, the duct to the right, the vein between and behind. If the finger be introduced behind the right border of the lesser omentum, it ^\'ill be situated in an opening called the foramen of Winslow. In fro7it of the finger will lie the right border of the lesser omentum", containing the hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct; behind it, the right crus of the diaphragm and in- ferior vena ca^'a covered by the ascending or posterior layer of the peritoneum ; below, the hepatic artery, cur^^ng forward from the cceliac axis, and the ascending i)ortion of tlie duodenum ; and above, the lobus Spigelii. These, therefoi-e, are the boundaries of the fora- men of JVi7islow, which is nothing more than a constriction of the general cavitv of the peritoneum at this ])oint, arising out of the