EHOMBOIDEUS MUSCLES. 272 below upwards, witli the erectoi- spinse, serratus posticus inferio , posterior aponeurosis of the obliquus internus, ohliciuus externu-! serratus magnus, intercostal muscles and ribs, rhoinljoideus luajo). inferior angle of the sca]iula, and teres major. The latissimus dor^i. with the tei'es major, forms tlie posterior Ijorder of the axilla. Nerve-supply.—By the long subscapular branch of tlie posterioi- cord of the brachial plexus, and by the posterior branches of tlic dorsal and lumbar nerves. Second Layer. Levator anguli scapulae, Rhomboideus minor, Ehomboideus major. Dissection.—This layer is brought into view by dividing the twn preceding muscles near their origin, and turning them aside. The LEVATOR ANGULI SCAPULA arises, by tendinous slips, from tlie posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the four upper cervical vertebra); and is inserted into the upper angle and jjostei-ior bordei- of the scapula, as far as the triangular smooth surface at the root of its spine. Being the principal elevator of the shoulder, it has been termed musculus patientice. Relations.—By its superficial surface mth the trapezius, sterno- mastoid, and integument. By its deep surface with the splenius colli, traiisversalis cervicis, cervicalis ascendens, scalenus posticus and seri'atus posticus superior, and with the superlicialis colK and ])Osterior scapular arteries. The tendons of origin are interjjosed Ijetween the attachments of the scalenus medius in fi-ont and the splenius colli and transversalis cervicis behind. Nerve-supply.—By the rhomboid branch of the brachial plexus, and branches from the second, third, and fourtli cervical. The RHOMBOIDEUS MINOR (rhombus, a pai-allelogram with four equal sides) is a narrow slip of muscle, detached from the rhom- boideus major by a slight areolar interspace. It arises from the spinous processes of the last cervical and first dorsal vertebrae and ligamentum nuclise ; and is inserted into the edge of the triangular surface on the ])osterior border of the scapula. The RHOMBOIDEUS MAJOR arises from the spinous proces.<5es and sui^ra-spinous ligaments of the four upper dorsal vertebrte, and is inserted into the posterior border of the scapula as far as its infeiior angle. The insertion is eftected by means of a tendinous band, whicli is attached above to the triangular surface at the root of the spine, below to the inferior angle, and betAveen these points to the jiosterior border of the scapula by means of a thin membrane. Relations.—By their superficial surface the rhomboid muscles are in relation with the trapezius, and the rhomboideus major with the latissimus dorsi and integument; l)y their deep surface with the serratus posticus superior, erector sjiina;, ]X)sterior scajnilar artery, intercostal muscles and ribs.