BONE. 22 surfaces respectively. Tlie wliole dense substance therefore is pei-- meated by a network of tubules, so that when a thin trans\-erse slice of bone is examined by the microscope, it is seen to be i-iddled. with circular holes. The Haversian canals measure from y^Jj^ to of an inch in diameter. A perpendiciilai' section shows the coin- munications with each other and with the surfaces of the Itone. They are largest near to tlie medullary surface of tlie bone, and ar-e narrowest next to the periosteal layer; they contain blood-vessels,, lymphatics, nerves, osteoblastic cells, and the larger ones contain marrow. That portion of the dense tissue which derives its nourishment from the Haversian canals is arranged in concentric lamellte {Haver- sian lamellce), round these tubes, so that a long bone may be described as a series of hollow rods, the central canals of which are the Haver- sian canals, bound together by an exterior wrapper consisting of several layers of lamellce (see Fig. 33). An Haversian canal and its concentric lamellae together form an Haversian system; as these systems are round or oval, irregular intervals are left where they join ; these are filled in by layers irregu- larly disposed and called interstitial or intercalary lamellce. A further provision exists for bring- ing the nutritive fluid into more close relation to the bone substance tlian can be accomplished by the vascular mem- branes or Haversian canals. The whole of the dense tissue is permeated hj ex- tremely minute channels called canali- culi. These pass through the periosteal and perimedullary layers at right angles to their surfaces, and radiate from the Haversian canals. They are smaller in cali]:)re than the smallest capillaries, and serve to conduct the nutritive fluid to the denser tissue. The canaliculi which radiate out from the Haversian canals are interrupted in their passage to the more distant concentric lamella? Fig. 34.—Vertical section of tibia, by poui'ing their contents into little oval showing t}ie network of Haver- cavities called the lacunSB of bone. sian canals. rm 1 • • i i ^ Ihey are arranged m circles between the lamelhv, and into their sides next the canals numerous canaliculi enter, while from the further side still more numerous canaliculi diverge towards the circles of lacuuDB further out. The lacuna? thei'efoi'e serve as reservoirs into which fluid from the vessels in the Haversian canals is poured on the one hand, and on the other they pass it on to the outer circles of bone. In this way the nourish- ment of those parts of bone most distant fi-om the nutrient mem- branes is provided for by this intricate series of little cliannels and communicating reservoirs (flg. 35).