346 FEMORAL HERNIA. the OS jnibis, internally by Gimberuat's ligament, and externally by the femoral vein. The' interval itself serves for the passage of ; the superficial lymphatic vessels from the saphenous opening to a lymphatic gland, which generally occupies the femoral ring, and from thence they proceed into the current of the deep lymphatics. The crural ring is closed merely by a thin layer of sub-serous areolar tissue, which retains the lympliatic gland in its position, and is ■ named septum crurale, and by the ])eritoneum. It follows from this description that the femoral ring must be a weak point in the parietes of the abdomen, particularly in the female, in whom the I femoral arch, or space included between Poupart's ligament and the border of the pelvis, is larger than in the male, while the struc- tures which pass through it are smaller. It happens, consequentlj-, that if violent or continued pressure be made upon the alxlominal viscera, a portion of intestine may be forced through the femoral ring into the infundibuliform space in the sheath of the femoral vessels, carrying before it the peritoneum and septum crurale,—this constitutes femoral hernia. If the causes which gave rise to the formation of the hernia continue, the intestine, unable to extend further down the sheath, from the close connection of the latter with the vessels, will, in the next place, be forced forwards through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, carrying before it two additional coverings, the sheath of the vessels or fascia propria, and the cribri- form fascia; and then, curving upwards over Poupart's ligament, the hernia will become placed beneath the superficial fascia and integument. The direction which femoral hernia takes in its descent is at first dowmoards, then forivards, and then upxoards; and in endeavouring to reduce it, the application of the taxis must have reference to this course, and be directed in precisely the reverse order. The coverings of femoral hernia are the— Integument, Superficial fascia. Cribriform fascia, Femoral sheath, Septum crurale. Peritoneal sac. The deep fascia of the leg is attached to the inner and outer tuberosity of the tibia and head of the fibula, and receives an accession of filires from the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and biceps. Be- tween its points of attachment, and especially behind, it is continuous with the fascia of the thigh. In the front of the leg it encloses the tibialis anticus and extensor muscles, and aftbrds origin to some of their fibres. On the outer side it forms a sheath for the peronei muscles ; and behind, two sheaths, superficial and deep ; the former for the gastrocnemius and soleus with the tendo-Achillis, the latter for the deep flexor muscles. At the ankle these four sheaths arc 1^