PARIETAL BONE. 91 opposite side. Tlie inferior border is arched and thin, to ai-ticulate with, the temporal bone. The anterior border is concave, and the posterior somewhat convex. External Surface.—Crossing the bone in a longitudinal direction from the anterior to the posterior border, is an arched line, the ie»)- poral crest, to which the temporal fascia is attached. Beneath this in ■w'ell-raarked specimens, and separated from it by a very nai'row interval, is a second line limiting the attachment of the temporal muscle. In the middle of these lines, and nearly in the centre of the bone, is the projection called the parietal eminence, which marks the centre of ossification. Above the temporal crest the surface is rough, and covered by the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis ; below the crest the bone is smooth, for +he attachment of the fleshy fibres of the temporal muscle. Near the superior border of the bone, and at about one-third from its posterior extremity, is the parietal jforamen, which transmits a vein to the suj^erior longitudinal sinus. This foramen is often absent. Internal Surface.—The internal table is smooth; it is marked by numerous furrows, which lodge the ramifications of the middle Fig. 96.—Internal surface of the left parietal bone. i. Superior, or sagit- tal border. 2. Inferior, or squam- ous border. 3. Anterior, or coronal border. 4. Posterior, or lamb- doidal border. 5. Part of the groove for the supei-ior longitu- dinal sinus. 6. Internal termina- tion of the parietal foramen. 7. Anterior inferior angle of the bone, on wiiicli is seen the groove for the trunk of the middle meningeal artery. S. Posterior inferior angle, on which is seen a portion of the ■groove for the lateral sinus. meningeal artery, and by irregular depressions called digital fossse, which correspond with the convolutions of the brain. Along the upper border is part of a shallow groove, completed by the opposite parietal bone, which serves to contain the superior longitudinal sinus. Near this groove, some slight pits, which lodge the Pacchio- nian Ijodies, are also observable. llha anterior inferior angle is thin and lengthened, and articulates mth the ti]) of the gi'eat wing of the sphenoid bone. Its inner surface IS deeply grooved for the middle meningeal artery; the groove Ijemg frequently converted into a closed canal. The posterior ii^erior anyle is thick, and presents a broad and shallow groove for the lateral sinus. 1