725 STRUCTUEE OF THE STOMACH. with the spleen, the bond of nnion being the gastro-splenic omentum, and its posterior surface is connected with the left crus of the dia- phragm by means of peritoneum. It is fixed at the cardiac end by the union of the oesophagus with the diaphragm, while at the pyloric end the limitation of its movement depends on the fixation of the descending portion of the duodenum. Structure of the Stomach.—The stomach has four coats—viz., serous, muscular, submucous, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum and completely invests it, except at the upper and lower Ijorders, where the_ anterior and posterior layers are separated by a very small interval, in which run the gastric and gastro-epiploic arteries, and at the back part where it lies upon the left crus of the diaphragm. The muscular coat consists of unstriped fil)res arranged in three layers. The most external are longitudinal, and ex- tend from the oesophageal to the pyloric orifice. They are continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the cesophagus, and are scat- tered over the back and front of the organ, but col- lected into strong bundles along the two borders. The middle layer is disposed in circles, which commence at Fig. 434.—Diagram of the muscular coat of the the left extremity, and con- stomach, showing the circular, oblique, and tinue along the whole body i°°git^^dinai fibres. of the stomach to the pylorus, where they are gathered into a mus- cular ring, which forms the contractile part of that outlet. They are very thin at the great end of the stomach, but get thicker and more distinct as they approach the pylorus. Some oblique filires, con- tiniied from the circular fibres of the esophagus, form a partial layer within the two former. They are continued from the circular fibres at the cardiac orifice, and spread out on the left of it; some of them having nearly the same direction as the circular fibres, with which, indeed, many become continuous. The submucous areolar tissue forms a third coat. It is loose and filamentous in structure, so that the next coat is comparatively feebly attached to the muscular coat. In it the blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatics are distributed. The mucous membrane of the stomach is soft and loose, thinner at the cardiac than at tlie pyloric end, and of a greyish or pinkish- grey colour. It is redder in infancy than in the adult. It is so loosely connected to the muscular coat tliat wlien the stomach is distended it lias a smooth, even, mucous lining ; but when ccmtracted the membrane is tlirown into folds, or rugae. These folds, thougli not permanent, always when present assume one direction, that ]iext