ORGAN OF HEARING. 636 The MEATUS AUDITORIUS is a canal, partly cartilaginous aii^l partly osseous about an inch in lengtli, which extends inwards aii-l a little iorwards Ironi the concha to the tyuipanum. It is narrower in the middle than ai each extremity, foim- an oval cylinder, tin long diameter being v(;i - tical, is directed a litlli- forwards, and is slight]\ curved on itself, tin concavity looking down- M'^ards. In consequence of the obliquity of tin membrana tympani, tin- floor of the canal i- a little longer than it- roof. The cartilaginous poi - tion of the tube foruis a little less than half the passage. The osseous portion is longer and slightly narrower than the cartilaginous. At its inner end is an oblique groove for tlic membrani tympani; th. groove is defective at the upper part, where there is a small irregulai excavation, the Rivinian recess. The skin of tlu- meatus is very thin, especially towards tlu' bottom of the passage : lining frequently comes away as a complete and very delicate pouch. Some stiff shoi i hairs are also found in its interior, which stretch across the tulu'. and prevent the ingress of insects and dust. In the substance of its lining membrane are a number of ceruminoiis glands, which secrete the wax of the ear. Vessels and Nerves.—The pinna is plentifully supplied witli arteries; by the anterior auricular from the temporal, by the poste- rior auricular from the external carotid, and by a branch from the occipital artery. Its nerves are derived from the auriculo-temporal of the fifth, the posterior auricular of the facial, and the auricularis magnus of the cervical plexus. Fig. 371.—Tlie piima and its muscles, as seen from behind, i, i. Border of the helix. 2. Spine of the helix. 3. Convexity corresponding with the fossa of the helix. 4, 4. Convexity of the enncha; the iissure between the numbers corresponds with the crus helicis. 5. Ponticulus conchas. 6, 6. Cartilage of the meatus. 7. Aperture of the meatus. 8. Attrahens auriculam. 9. Attollens auriculam. 10. Retrahens auriculam. n. Transversus auricute. 12. Obliquus auris. after maceration in water, the epithelial