2l6 KNEE-JOINT. cartilage, situated on the head of the tibia around its margin, and serving to deepen the surface of articulation for the condyles of the femur. They are thick along their convex border ; thin and sharp along their concave edge. Each cartilage covers about two-thirds of the corresponding articular surface of the tibia, leaving the inner third uncovered ; both surfaces are covered by synovial membrane. The internal semilunar fibro-cartilage forms an oval cup for the reception of the internal condyle of the femur : it is connected by its convex border with the head of the tibia and internal and posterior ligaments, by means of its coronary ligament; and by its two extremities is firmly implanted into the depression before and behind the spinous process. The external semilunar fibro-carti- lage bounds a circular fossa for the external condyle ; it is connected by its convex bor- der with the head of the tibia, and to the external and posterior liga- ments by its coro- nary ligament; by its two extremi- ties it is inserted into th e depression between the two projections which constitute the spinous process of the tibia ; being placed between the attached ends of the internal cartilage. The two extremities of the external cartilage, being inserted into the same fossa, form an almost complete circle, and the cartilage, being somewhat broader than the internal, covers more of the articular surface of the tibia. The external semilunar fibro-cartilage, besides giving off a fasci- culus from its anterior border to constitute the transverse ligament, is continuous by some of its fibres with the extremity of the ante- rior crucial ligament: posteriorly it divides into three slips; one, a strong cord, ascends obliquely forwards to be inserted into the anterior part of the inner condyle of the femur in front of the pos- terior crucial ligament; another is the fasciculus of insertion into the fossa of the spinous process ; while the third, of small size, is continuous with the posterior part of the anterior crucial liga- ment. The ligamentum mucosum is a slender conical process of synovial membrane enclosing a few ligamentous fibres which proceed from the transverse ligament. It is connected, by its apex, with the Fig. 17s.—The right knee-joint laid open from the front in order to show the internal ligaments, i. Cartilaginous surface of the lower extremity of the femur; the figure 5 rests on the external, the figure 3 on the internal, condyle. 2. Anterior crucial ligament. 3. Posterior crucial ligament. 4. Transverse ligament. 5. Attachment of the ligamen- tum mucosum; the rest has been removed. 6. Internal semilunar fibro-cartilage. 7. External fibro-cartilage. 8. Part of the ligamentimi patel- l£e turned down. g. Bursa situated between the liga- mentum patellae and the head of the tibia, laid open. 10. Antero-superior tibio-fibular ligament. 11. Interosseous membrane.