409 BKACHIAL ARTERY. Varieties of the Axillary Artery.—The most frequent pecu- liarity of this kind is the division of the vessel into two trunks of equal size : a muscular trunk, which gives off some of the ordinary axillary hrauches and supplies the npjjer arm, and a continued trunk which represents the brachial artery. The next most frequent variety is the high division of the radial which passes down the arm by the side of the brachial artery, and at the elbow takes its usual position, and is continued to its ordinary distribution in the hand. Sometimes there is a high division of the ulnar, that artery being given off in the axilla ; at the elbow it passes superficially to the muscles attached to the internal condyle, and may in life be seen and felt pulsating immediately beneath the deep fascia. BRACHIAL ARTERY. The brachial artery passes down the inner side of the arm, from the lower border of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, to a point opposite the neck of tlae radiixs, where it divides into the radial and ulnar artery. Plan of the Relations of the Brachial Artery. Inner Side. Internal cutaneous nerve. Ulnar nerve, Median nerve (below), Basilic vein. In Front. Integument and fasciae, Median nerve, Median-basilic vein, Bicipital fascia. Brachial Artery. Behind. Triceps, Musculo-spiral nerve, Superior profunda artery, Coraco-brachialis, Brachialis anticus. Outer Side. Median nerve (above), Coraco-brachialis, Biceps. Anastomotica magna. Muscular and nutrient. The branches of the brachial artery are the— ' Superior profunda, Inferior profunda, Tlie superior profunda arises opposite the lower border of the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and muds around the humerus in the musculo-spii'al groove, between the triceps and the bone, to the I space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, where nt mosculates with the radial recui-rent artery. It accompanies the musculo-spiral nerve. In its course it gives off the posterior articular artery, which descends to the elbow-joint, and a more superficial branch, which descends by the side of the external intermuscular I