CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR VEINS. 453 througli tlie mastoid foramen, and connecting the lateral sinus witli the occipital or posterior auricular vein ; (2) a parietal branch (in- constant), passing through the parietal foramen and connecting the superior longitudinal sinus with the veins of the scalp ; (3) a nasal branch, transmitted by the foramen ctecuni and connecting the nasal veins with the su]3erior longitudinal sinus ; (4) a condylar branch, jjassing through the j)osterior condylar foramen and form- ing a communication between the lateral sinus and the veins around the cervical vertebrae (inconstant); (5) a small vein j)assing through the foramen of Vesalius and connecting the pterygoid j)lexus of veins with the cavernous sinus (inconstant) ; (6) an occipital branch traversing the external occipital protuberance, and passing from the occipital veins to the torcular Herophili (inconstant) ; (7) small veins from the pterygoid and pharyngeal plexixses passing through the foramen ovale and foramen lacerum medius to the cavernous sinus. (8) A small venous plexus accomj)anies the internal caro- tid artery through the carotid canal and opens into the internal jugular vein ; and (9) a venous ring surrounds the hypoglossal nerve in the anterior condylar foramen, and communicates between the inferior petrosal sinus and the deep veins of the neck. CEREBRAL AND CEREBELLAR VEINS. The cerebral veins are remarkable for the absence of valves, and for the extreme tenuity of their coats. They may be arranged into the superficial, and deej) or ventricular veins. The superficial cerebral veins are situated on the surface of the hemispheres lying in the sulci. They are named from the position which they occupy on the surface of the brain, either superior or in- ferior, internal or external, anterior or posterior. The superior cerebral veins, ten to twelve in number at each side, pass obliquely forwards, and terminate in the superior longi- tudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the stream of blood in the sinus. In the infant the direction of these veins is nearly transverse. The inferior cerebral veins pass from the lower surface of the hemispheres to tlie cavernous, superior petrosal and lateral sinuses. One branch, of larger size than the rest, commences on the under surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and after running for some distance in the fissure of Sylvius, empties into the cavernous sinus ; it is called the middle cerebral vein. The deep or ventricular veins commence within the lateral ventricles by the veins of the corjjora striata and those of the choroid 2}lexuses, which unite to form the two venae Galeni. The venae Galeni pass backwards in the structure of the velum mterpositum ; and, after uniting, terminate in the straight sinus. They receive in their course small branches from the thalamus opticus and choroid plexus of the third ventricle. The basilar vein IS the chief triljutary of the vein of Galen, which it reaches by wind-