FLEXOE LONGUS POLLICIS. •annular ligament, and along the fingers, between the two slips of ■the tendons of the flexor subliniis, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanges. In the groove of the carpus the tendons are enclosed in a synovial membrane, and the three outer tendons communicate with each other by means of small slips, the tendon of the index- finger remaining distinct. In the hand, the tendons give origin to the lumbricales muscles, and on the second phalanges are retained in position by two little tendinous slips, the vincula accessoria. Relations.—In the forearm : by its anterior surface with the flexor subliniis digitorum, flexor carpi ulnaris, median nerve, and ubiar artery, veins, and nerve. By its posterior surface with the ulna, interosseous membrane, pronator quadratus, and wrist-joint. By its radial harder with the flexor longus pollicis, the anterior interosseous artery and nerve being interposed. By its ulnar border with the flexor carj^i ulnaris. In the hand : its tendons are in relation superficially with the tendons of the superficial flexor ; and deephj with the interossei, adductor pollicis, and deep palmar arch. Nerve-supply.-—Median and ulnar nerves. The FLEXOR LONGUS POLLICIS arises from the anterior surface of the shaft of the radius for two-thirds of its extent, and from Fig. 229.—Varieties in the arraugement of the synovial sheaths of the wrist and fingers. The middle one is the most frequent. one-half the interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes beneath the annular ligament to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the flexor sublimis digi- torum, flexor carpi radialis, supinator longus, and radial artery and veins. By its posterior surface with the radius, interosseous mem- brane, pronator quadratus, and wrist-joint. By its ulnar border it is separated from the flexor profundus digitorum by the anterior interosseous artery and nerve. In the hand : after passing beneath the annular ligament, it is lodged in the interspace between the two l)ortions of the flexor Ijrevis pollicis, and afterwards in the tendinous tlieca of the phalanx. Synovial Sheaths.—Beneath the anterior annular ligament two synovial sheaths are found; the larger of these surrounds the tendons of flexor sublimis and flexor profundus digitorum, and