741 LIGAMENTS OF THE LIVER. Tlie falciform ligament (broad or suspensory) is an antero- posterior fold of peritoneum, extending from tiie notcli in the anterior margin of the liver to its posterior border. Between its two layers, in the anterior and free margin, is the round ligament. It divides the upper surface of the liver into the right and left lobes. The coronary ligament is formed by the separation of the two layers of peritoneum which pass from the diaphragm to the liver. The posterior layer is continued luibroken from one lateral ligament to the other ; but the anterior quits the j)Osterior at each side, and is continuous with the corresponding layer of the falciform liga- ment. In tliis Avay a large oval surface on the posterior border of the liver is left uncovered by peritoneum, and is connected to the diaphragm by areolar tissue. I his space is formed principally by the right lateral ligament, and is pierced near its left extremity l)y the inferior vena cava, previously to the ^Dassage of that vessel through the tendinous opening in the diaphragm. The lateral ligaments are formed by the two layers of perito- neum which pass from the under surface of the diaphragm to the posterior border of the liver ; they are lateral extensions of the coronary ligament. The round ligament is a fibrous cord resulting from the oblite- ration of the umbilical vein, and sitxiated between the two layers of peritoneum in the anterior border of the falciform ligament. It may be traced from the uuibilicus through the longitudinal fossa of the under surface of the liver to the inferior vena cavd, with which it is connected. Fissures.—The under surface of the liver is marked by five fissures, which divide its surface into five compartments or lobes, two principal and three minor lobes ; they are the— Fissures. Lobes. Longitudinal fissure. Eight lobe, . Fissure for the ductus venosus, Left lobe. Transverse fissure, Lobus quadratus. Fissure for the gall-bladder, Lobus Spigelii, Fissure for the vena cava. Lobus caudatus. The longitudinal fissure is a deep groove running from the notch, umbilical fissure, in the anterior margin of the liver, to the posterior border of the organ. At about one-third from its posterior extremity it is joined by a short but deep fissure, the transverse, which meets it transversely from the under part of the right lobe. In front of this junction it lodges the filn-ous cord of tlie umbilical vein, and is generally crossed by a band of hepatic substance called the pons hejmtis. The fissure for the ductus venosus is the shorter portion of the longitudinal fissure, extending from the junctional termination of the transverse fissure to the posterior border of the liver, and con-