VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 6. Femoral vein. 7. IJorsal arch connecting circumflex iliac. 5. Femoral artery, \ ulavian are tlie extei'ual and anterior jugulai- externally to the scalenus anticus, and tin; vertebral internally to that muscle. VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The veins of the lower extremity are deep and superficial. The deejj veins accompany the branches of the arteries in pairs, and form the venae comites of the anterior and posterior tibial and peroneal artery. These veins unite in the jDopliteal region to form a single ve.ssel of large size, the popliteal, which successiA'ely becomes in its course the femoral and the ex- ternal iliac vein. POPLITEAL VEIN.-The popliteal vein as- cends through the popliteal region, lying, in the first instance, superficial to the artery, and then getting somewhat to its outer side ; and, passing through the oval opening in the tendon of the adductor magnus, becomes the femoral vein. It receives several muscular and articu- lar branches, and the external saphena vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. FEMORAL VEIN.—The femoral vein, com- mencing at the opening in the adductor mag- nus muscle, ascends the tliigh in the sheath of the femoral artery, and entering the pelvis beneath Poupart's ligament, becomes the ex- ternal iliac vein. In the lower part of its course it is situated on the outer side of the artery ; it then becomes placed behind that vessel, and at Poupart's ligament, lies to its inner side. It receives the muscular veins and profunda, and, through the saphenous opening, the internal saphena vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. The profunda vein is formed by the con- A'ergence of the numeroixs small veins whicli accompany the branches of the artery ; it is a vein, of large size, lies in front of the profunda artery, and terminates in the femoral at about two inches Ijelow Poupart's ligament. SUPERFICIAL VEINS. —The superficial veins are the external or short, and the internal or loiuf "ic 280 —Superficial veins of the front of thigh and inner side of leg. i. Internal saphena. 2. Superficial external pudic. 3. Superficial epigastric. 4. Superficial the short and long saphena veins.