566 CEIWIOAL NEIWES. the integument of tlie front of tlie neck as far downwai-ds as the sternum. The auricularis magnus, the largest of the three ascending brandies of tlie cervical plexus, also proceeds from the second and third cervical nerves ; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and ascends upon that muscle, lying parallel with the external jugular vein, to the parotid gland, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch is distributed to the integument over the paro- tid gland, and to the gland itself, communicating with the facial nerve. The posterior branch ascends behind the ear, where it divides into aurictdar branches, supplying tlie pinna ; and a mastoid branch which communicates with the posterior auricular branch of the facial and is distributed to the integument behind the ear. The auricular branches communicate with the auricular offsets of the facial nerve, pneumogastric nerve, and occipitalis minor. The occipitalis minor arises from the second cervical nerve; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid above the preceding, and ascends upon that muscle, jDarallel with its poste- rior border, to the lateral and jjosterior aspect of the cranium. It is distributed to the integument, to the occipital portion of the occipito-frontalis and attolleiis auriculam, and communicates with the occipitalis major, auricularis magnus, and posterior auricular branch of the facial. Superficial Descending Branches.—The acromial and clavicu- lar are two or three lai'ge nerves which proceed from the fourth cervical nerve, and pass downwards in the posterior triangle of the neck ; they pierce the deep fascia, and crossing the clavicle are dis- tributed to the integument of the front of the chest as low do^^•n as the nipple line, from the sternum to the acromion ; hence their designation, clavicular and acromial. The most anterior of the branches is named sternal, from its destination, and the outermo.-^t branch passes over the clavicular attachment of the trapezius, to reach the shoulder. Deep Branches.-—The communicating branches are filament- which arise from the loop between the first and second cervical nerves, and pass inwards to communicate with the synijiathetic, pneumogasti'ic, and hypoglossal nerves. The first three cer\dcal nerves send branches to the first cervical ganglion ; the fourth sends a branch to the trunk of the sympathetic, or to the middle cervical ganglion. From the second cervical nerve a large branch is given off, which joins the spinal accessory nerve. The communicans cervicis (communicans noni) is a long and slender branch of communication between the cervical plexus and descendens cervicis ; it is formed by filaments from the second and third cervical nerves, descends at the outer side of the internal jugular vein, and forms a loop with the descendens cervicis over the sheath of the carotid vessels. The muscular branches of the cervical plexus are distributed