ORGANS OF SENSE. 6l2 the superior maxillary bones. nostril. dance of sebaceous glands, wliicli, l)y their oily secretion, protect tlic extremity of the nose under alternations of teiupei'atui-e. The selja- ceous matter of these glands becomes of a dai-k colour near the surface, from altered secretion, and also from attivaction of the cai - bonaceous matter floating in the atmosphere ; lience the spotted appearance which the tip of the nose presents in large cities. Wheij the integument is firndy compressed, the insjjissated .sebaceous secretion is squeezed out, and taking the cylindrical form of tlic excretory'ducts of the glands, has tlie appearance of small while maggots (grubs ; comedones) with black heads. 2. The muscles are brought into view by reflecting the iutegu- ment; they are the pyramidalis nasi, compressor nasi, dilatator naris, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, and depressor alse nasi. The\- have been already described with the muscles of the face. 3. The bones of the nose are—the nasal, and nasal processes of tlie superior maxillary. 4. The cartilages give form and stability to the nose, providing, at the same time, by their elasticity, against injuries. They are fivu in number, namely, the— Cartilage of the septum, Two lateral cartilages, 1 Two alar cartilages. The cartilage of the sep- tum, somewhat triangular in form, divides the nose into its two nostrils. It is connected above with the nasal bones and lateral cartilages ; lie- hind, with the ethmoidal sep- tum and vomer ; and below, with the palate processes of The alar cartilages and co- lumna move freely on the cartilage of the septum, being but loosely connected with it liy perichondrium. The lateral cartilages are also triangular; they are connected, in front, Avith the cartilage of the septum ; above, with the na^^al bones ; behind, with the nasal processes of the superior maxillary bones ; and below, with the alar cartilages. Alar Cartilages (lower lateral cartilages).—Each of these cartilages is curved so as to correspond with the walls of the nostril, to which it forms a kind of rim. The inner portion is loosely con- nected with the same part of the opposite cartilage, to form the columna. It is expanded and thickened at the point of the nose, to constitute the lobe; and on the side makes a curve corresponding with that of the ala. This curve is prolonged backwards and doM ii- wards in the direction of the posterior border of the ala by three or Fig. 349. — The cartilages of the nose. i. One of the nasal bones. 2. Cartilage of the septum. 3. La- teral cartilage. 4. Alar carti- lage. 5. Cen- tral portions of the alar carti- lages which constitute the columna. 6. Sesamoid car- tilages. 7. The