719 ERUPTION OF TEETH. of several. Most observers agree in stating that the dentinal matrix, dentinal sheaths, and the fibres contained in the tubules, represent three stages of calcification, the matrix exhibiting the completion of the process, the sheaths of Neumann an imperfect calcification, and the fibres being the luichanged protoplasm of the original cell. Klein is, however, of opinion that the fibres contained in the tubules are derived from the processes of the deeper layers of cells, and are not the product of the odontoblasts. The part of the dentinal papilla which is not converted into dentine, remains throughout life as the pulp of the tooth. Cement.—This is produced by the tissue of the tooth sac, the process being precisely the same as the production of bone beneath periosteum, described on a previous page. Eruption of Teeth. When the crown of the tooth has been formed and coated with enamel, and the fang has grown to the bottom of its socket by the progressive lengthening of the pulp, the formation of the dentine, and the adhesion of the latter to the contiguous portion of the sac, the pressure of the socket causes the reflected part of the sac and the edge of the tooth to approach, and the latter to ]3ass through the gum. The opened sac now begins to shorten more rapidly than the fang lengthens, and the tooth is quickly drawn uj)wards by the contrac- tion, leaving a space between the extremity of the unfinished root I and the bottom of the 1 socket, in which the growth and comjjletion of the fang are effected. During the changes above described as tak- ing place among the dental sacs contained within the jaws, the septa between the sacs, at first consisting of s])ongy tissue, gradually Ijecome fibrous, and sub- sequently osseous, the bone being developed from the surface and (proceeding by degrees •more deeply into the jaws to constitute the „ alveoli Thp upcks nf 43o.—Aormal well-formed jaws from which the oiveun. iiie neCKS 01 alveolar plate has been removed, so as to expose the the sacs of the per- developing permanent teeth in their ciypts in the manent teeth, by which fchey originally communicated with the mucous surface of the gum, still exist, in the form of cords, separated from the deciduous teeth i