366 MUSCLES OF THE CALF OF THE LEG. Fio. 243.—Super- ficial muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg. I. Biceps, forming the outer ham- string. 2. Ten- dons, forming the inner ham- String. 3. Pop- liteal space. 4. Gastrocnemius. 5, 5. Soleus. 6. Tendo-A chillis. 7. Postei-ior tu- berosity of tbe OS calcis. 8. Tendons of the peroneus lon- gus and brevis passing behind the outer ankle. 9. Tendons of the tibialis pos- ticus and flexor longus digito- rum passing into the foot behind the in- ner ankle. fasciae from the whole of this region ; the gastrocnemius muscle will then be expcsed. The GASTROCNEMIUS (yaa-rpoKv^fMiov, the bellied part of the leg arises by two lieads from the rough surfaces above the back part of the two condyles of the femur, the inner head being the longest. The tendons of origin are intimately connected with the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and are lined on their anterior surface by the synovial membrane. They unite to form the beauti- ful muscle so characteristic of this region of the limb. It is inserted, by means of the tendo- Achillis, into the lower part of the posterior tuberosity of the OS calcis, a sjTiovial bursa being placed between the tendon and the upper part of the tubero- sity. The gastrocnemius must be removed from its origin, and turned down in order to expose the next muscle. Relations. — By its super- ficial surface with the deep fascia of the leg, which sepa- rates it from the external saphena vein, and with the external saphenous nerve. By its deep surface with the lateral portions of the posterior liga- ment of the knee-joint, the popliteus, plantaris, and soleus. The internal head of the muscle rests against the pos- terior surface of the internal i condyle of the femur, and is • separated from the semi-mem- ■ branosus by a synovial bursa 1 which often communicates with : the ca\-ity of the knee-joint. The external head rests against; the outer side of the external i condyle, and often has in it a sesamoid bone or fibro-cartilage. Nerve-supply.—Internal popliteal nerve. The PLANTARIS {planta, the sole of the foot), an extremely, diminutive muscle situated between the gastrocnemius and soleus,. arises from the upper and back part of the outer condyle of the. femur; and is inserted, by its long and delicately slender tendon,, into the inner side of the posterioi' tubei-osity of the os calcis, by the side of the tendo-Acliillis, having crossed obliquely between i