BRANCHES OF INTERNAL ILIAC. 4'33 The LATERAL SACRAL ARTERIES are generally two in number on each side, superior and inferior. The superior jjasses inwards to the first sacral foramen, and is distributed to the contents of the spinal canal, from which it escapes by the jiosterior sacral foramen, and supplies the integument of the dorsum of the sacrum. The inferior passes do'ttTi by the side of the anterior sacral foramina to the coccyx ; it first j)ierces and then rests on the origin of the pyriformis, and sends twigs into the sacral canal to su^Dply the sacral nerves. Both arteries give brandies to the pyriformis and Fig. 266.—Arteries of the buttock. I. Superficial branch of the gluteal artery. 2. Gluteus medius (origin). 3. Gluteus niaximus (origin). 4. Superior branch of deep gluteal artery. 5. Trunk of gluteal artery. 6. In- ferior branch of deep gluteal artery. 7. Pyri- formis. 8. Gluteus minimus. 9. Pudic artery. 10. Great sci- atic nerve. 11. Lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. 12. Gluteus medius (insertion). 13. Ischi- atic artery. 14. Great trochanter. 15. Coccy- geal branch of ischiatic artery. 16. Anasto- motic branch of ischi- atic. 17. Great sacro- sciatic ligament. 18. Obturator internus and twogemelli. 19. Exter- nal sphincter ani. 20. Tendon of obturator extemus. 21. Inferior liseiiiorrhoidal arteiy. 22. Insertion of gluteus maximus. 23. Tubero- sity of ischium. 24. Quadratus femoris. 26. Lesser trochanter. 27. Arteria comes nervi ischiatici. coccygeus mu.scles, and .tlie sacral nerves ; tliey inosculate with each other and with tlie sacra media. The GLUTEAL ARTERY is the continuation of the posterior trunk ol the internal iliac ; it passes backwards l)etween the lumbo-sacral and first sacral nerve through the upper part of the great sacro- ischiatic foramen and above the pyrifornds muscle, and divides into three branches, superficial, deep superior, and deep inferior ; while within the pelvis It gives off some muscular twigs to the iliacus and pyntornns, and at its escape from the pelvis, a nutrient artery to the Ilium. 2 li