58 SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. Thro.e classes of synovial nienilji-anes liave to be descriljed—namely, tliose lining the cavities nf joinis, Articular ; tliose forming closed sacs, Bursal ; and lliosc fofiiiing lubricating sheaths for tendons, Vaginal or Ensheathing. 1. Articular Synovial Membranes (Synovial CwpHulesi).—These cover the intci'ioi' of tlie ligaiiienis enclosing a diarthi'odial joint, and seci'ete a Huid called synovia, which Inbricates the articular sur- faces and ensures sinootli movement. The membrane is not (as was formerly supposed) cont inued over the -whole surface of the articular cartilage, but simply overlaps its mai-gin to a very slight extent ; at its termination it l)ecomes firudy adherent to the cartilage. Vyiien a tendon passes through a joint, as, for instance, the tendon of the biceps through the shoulder joint, it is invested by this membrane, which is often continued on it for some distance beyond the capsule of the joint. In large joints additional folds of synovial menrbrane, containing fat, pass betAveen the bones, or are lodged in excavations near the articular surfaces; some of these receive the name of ligaments, others are simply described as synovial fringes. 2. Bursal Synovial Membranes (Bursce Mucosce).—In these tin- synovial memlirane forms a shut sac, sutticient Huid being seci'eted to lubricate the opposed surfaces, and the outer surface of the sjic being connected with the neighl:)ouring structures. Bursas are found in all ]daces where it is desirable to prevent friction l)etween sur- faces which move on each othei'; thus they are placed between the tendons of muscles, l)etween tendons and the exterior of certain joints, and sometimes between a muscle and a bone. Many bursa* are sidicutaneous, and are then of use to ward oft' external ])ressui'e ; such are the bursse found between the skin and the patella, and l)etween the skin and the olecranon, or those on the styloid processes of the radius and idna. Bursa) lying in contact with the capsule of a joint often Ijecome connected with the cavity of the joint. 3. Vaginal or Ensheathing Synovial Membranes.—These form sheaths for the tendons of many m\;scles, more especially those on the ]3almar and dorsal surfaces of the wiist, and the tendons jiassing to the phalanges of the fingers and toes. They not only serve to lubricate those tendons, but are also the means by whicli they are connected with the bones, and with each other ; small bands called "frena" passing from one part of the mend)rane to another. Structure of Synovial Membrane.—Synovial membranes arc foruied eutii'ely of connective tissue, the deep layer being composed of ramified corpuscles end)edded in a ground substance. The frei' surface was formerly described as being covered by a single layer of llattened epithelial" cells, Imt further investigation has established the fact that the only cells found on the surface are of the branched and. anastomosing kind, similar to those in the deeper layer of the tissue, and that the surface between the cells is formed by albuminoid ground substance. Here and there, however, the cell's become so aggregated together, as to present some resend.tlance to an