NERVE FIBRES. 34 wrinkled, and portions of it assnine the form of round or irreguhai- nodules ; these changes are presunialjly tlie i-esult of a kind of coagulation. The centre of the fil)re is formed l:>y a firmer and more homogeneous band called the axis cylinder. It is elastic, greyish in colour, has a very faint and indistinct boundary line, and is generally flattened or oval in transverse section ; it is al)Out one-thii-d the thickness of the nerve fibre. It often presents traces of longitudinal striation, and may occasionally be split up into fine filaments, this taking place especially at the commenceuient and termination of a nerve ; these filaments have been regarded hy some observers as the ultimate structural elements of the nerve, and ha\'e hence been called jyrimitive fibrillce. Each axis cylinder is continuous with one of the jioles of a ganglionic cell. It is distinguished from the other parts of the nerve fibre by its becoming deeply coloured, when a thin section of fresh nervous matter is placed in a solution of carminate of ammonia, A\diile the primitive sheath becouies only faintly tinged, and the medullary sheath is totally unaftected by the reagent. The axis cylinder has also a great affinity for gold salts, becoming stained violet-black when placed in solutions of them ; when treated with nitrate of silver and exposed to light it shows transverse striae, these lieing most marked near to the nodes of Eanvier ; they are known as Frommann's lines. Nodes of Eianvier.'—Medullated nerve filires present breaks in the continuity of their structure at intervals of about ^ of an inch. At these points the axis cylinder is continued uninterruptedly ; the primitive sheath also passes over the breaks, but as the fibre is here smaller than elsewhere, the sheath is drawn inwards towards its centre. The medullary sheath is, however, completely interrupted, terminating by a rounded edge. The primitive sheath is separated from the axis cylinder by a small quantity of material of an albu- minous character, and corresponding in its behaviour Avith reagents to the intercellular suljstance which Ave have sjjoken of, as cementing together neighbouring cells. These breaks in the nerve fibre ha^'e been named from their discoverer the Nodes of Ranvier. Non-meduUated or Gelatinous Nerve Fibres (fibres of Remak) are found in the great nerve centres as continuations of the medul- lated fibres ; they also constitute the greater niunlier of the fibres of the sympathetic, and the whole of the olfactoi'v ner^-es in uian. In the brain and spinal cord, they are connected with the processes of the multipolar ner^^e cells, and serve to connect the medullated fibres with those cells. They are pale in colour, fiattened, and bounded by single contour lines ; they measure from g^J^ to of an inch in diametei'. In structure they are ioxmd to consi.st of a transparent, apparently honiogeneous slieath corresponding to the primitive sheath of the medullated fibres, l)eneath which are numerous oval nuclei. The interior of the fibre consists of a substance corresponding in every pai'ticular to the axis cvlindei- of medullated fibres, and made u]) of bundles of exceedingly fine