INGUINAL CANAL. 295 length of Poiipai't's ligament, Avliere it is connected to the fascia lata, and for the outer half of the ligament to the iliac fascia which joins it behind. The union of these three fasciae takes place rather "under than in Poupart's ligament, which could therefore be cut away, leaving them connected together as a firm fibrous cord, to which is given the name of deep crural arch. At the inner half of Poupart's ligament it is prolonged into the thigh, fornnng the anterior part of the sheath of the femoral vessels, as the posterior part is formed of a similar prolongation of the iliac fascia. The internal abdominal ring is an opening in this fascia situ- ated about half-way between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the symj)hysis of the pubis, and half an inch above Poupart's ligament. It is oval in form, the lower edge being strong, the upper thin and Aveak. Through this opening the sper- matic cord in the male jjasses to the testicle, and the round liga- ment of the uterus in the female to its insertion over the pubis. From the edges of the ring a funnel-shaped tube of transversalis fascia is given off which surrounds the structures forming the sper- matic cord. This is the infundibuliform fascia, sometimes called the fascia propria of the cord. The internal abdominal ring, there- fore, is simply the funnel-shaped mouth of this tube, and it is situated immediately external to the deep epigastric artery round which the spermatic cord turns in its passage from the abdomen to the scrotum. Inguinal Canal.—The spermatic or inguinal canal, which in the normal condition of the abdominal jiarietes serves for the passage of the s])ermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament with its vessels in the femak, is about one inch and a half in length. It is bounded, in front, by the aponeurosis of the external oblique nuiscle and a few fibres of the internal oblique and cremaster : hehind, by the transversalis fascia, the conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis, and triangular fascia ; above, by the arched border of the internal oblique and transversalis ; below, by the gi-ooved border of Poupart's ligament and the upper surface of Gimbernat's ligament; and at each extremity by one of the abdominal rings, the internal ring at the inner, the external ring at the outer extremity. These relations may be more distinctlv illustrated by the following plan :— Above. Lower border of internal oblique and transversalis. In front. Aponeurosis of ex- ternal oblique, fibres of internal oblique and cremaster. Inguinal cunal. Behind. Transversalis fascia. Conjoined tendon of internal oblique and transversalis. Triangu- lar fascia. Bclo2v. Grooved border of Poupart's ligament. fl4vv,U^ J.'. i;*