365 EXTENSOR PROPRIUS HALLUClS. the extensor longus digitorum, tliis muscle may be looked upon as homologous to the flexor carpi ulnaris of the forearm. Sometimes it is wanting. . The EXTENSOR PROPRIUS HALLUClS lies between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum. It arises from the middle three-fifths of the fibula and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through a distinct sheath in the annular liga- ment, and is inserted into the l)ase of the last jihalanx of the great toe, being closely connected with the first pha- lanx by short fibrous bands. Relations.—Bjitsanterior surface with the deep fascia of the leg and foot, and anterior annular ligament. By its posterior surface with the interosseous membrane, fibula, tibia, ankle-joint, ex- tensor brevis digitorum, and Fig. 242.—Insertion of extensors of toes. 1. Extensor proprius halkicis. 2, 2. Fibrous bands passing to first phalanx of great toe. 3.. Fibrous bands from 4, Extensor longus digitorum. bones and articulations of the great toe. It is crossed on this aspect by the anterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its outer side with the extensor longus digitorum, and in the foot with the dorsalis pedis artery and veins ; the outer side of its tendon on the dorsum of the foot being the guide to these vessels. By its inner side with the tibialis anticus, and anterior tibial vessels. Nerve-supply.—Anterior tibial nerve. Actions.—The tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius are direct flexors of the tarsus upon the leg. The two tibial muscles acting together raise the inner border of the foot and draw it inwards. They assist also in preser-\dng the arch of the foot during progres- sion. The extensor longus digitorum and extensor proj^rius hallucis are extensoi's of the phalanges ; and continuing their action, they assist the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius in flexing the foot upon the leg. Taking their origin from below, they increase the stability of the ankle-joint. Posterior Tibial Region. Superficial Group: Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, Soleus. Dissection.—Make an incision from the ,middle of the popliteal space down the middle of the posterior part of the leg to the heel, bounding it inferiorly by. a transverse incision passing below the two malleoli. Turn aside the flaps of integument and remove tlie