749 MINUTE STKUCTUEE OF THE LIVEE. by C41isson's capsule ; they form fine plexuses in the portal canals, vaginal plexuses, and terminate by uniting to form the hepatic duct at the transverse fissure. The ducts m the interlobular plexus have definite walls formed by a basement membrane, lined by a sinc^le layer of flattened or cubical epithelial cells : the larger ducts have their mucous membrane supplied with a large number of tubular or flask-shaped mucous recesses, having much the appear- ance of mucous glands; these are arranged in two rows, one on each side of the vessel. The largest ducts have an outer coat of areolar and elastic tissue, a middle coat of longitudinal and circular Fig. 456.—Biliary capillaries from the rabbit's liver, i. Part of a lobule, a. Intra- lobular veiu. b, h. Interlobular vein, c, c, c. Biliary ducts, (i, <?, d. Lobular venous plexus, e, e, c. Biliary capillaries. 2. Biliary capillaries {JS) in tbeir relation to tlie capillaries of tlie vascular system (a). 3. Biliary capillaries in their relation to the hepatic cells, a. Biliary capillaries, h. Hepatic cells, c. Biliary ducts, d. Capillaries of the blood-vessels. muscular fibres, and a mucous membrane lined with columnar epi- thelium, and possessing true, lobulated, mucous glands. The right and left hepatic ducts unite to form the common hepatic duct, and this in turn is joined by a duct from the gall- bladder, the two together forming the common bile duct (ductus communis choledochus). The common bile duct runs in the free border of the lesser omentum, being placed to the right of the hepatic artery and in front of the portal vein. It passes behind the descending portion of the duodenum to the inner side of that intestine, where it terminates by passing obliquely between the muscular and mucous coat, and opening on the summit of a papilla which is common to it and the pancreatic duct. The papilla is situated near the lower part of the descending portion of the duodenum at its inner side ; and the duct is constricted in size during its passage between the coats of the intestine. Lymphatics and Nerves.—The lymphatic vessels accompany tlie I