TRANSVERSE FISSURE. 5" The pes accessorius (eminentia collateralis) is a swelling some- what resembling the liippocampus major, but smaller m size, and situated in the angular interval between it and the hippocampus It is formed by the protrusion minor of the sulcus describee! above as the collateral fissure. The corpus fimbriatum (tsenia hip- pocampi) is the thinned and flattened posterior pillar of the fornix, which is prolonged from the central cavity of the ventricle, and is attached along the inner border of the hippocampus major. It is lost inferiorly in the hippocamj)iis. Fascia Dentata. — If the corpus fimbriatum be carefully raised,, a nar- row serrated band of grey substance, the margin of the grey substance of the middle lobe, A\'ill be seen beneath it; this is the fascia dentata. It is so called from presenting an appear- ance resembling a regular row of teeth. Transverse Fissure.—Beneath the corpus fimbriatum will be seen the transverse fissure of the brain, which Fig. 305- -Sectiou through the hippocampus major, showing fascia dentata. i. Pes hippo- campi. 2. Corpus fimbriatum. 3. Fascia dentata. 4, 4. Hippo- campal gyrus. 5. Uncinate gyrus. 6. Section through the hippocampus. extends from near the fissure of Sylvius on one side, across to the same point on the opposite side. It is through this fissure that the pia mater com- municates with the choroid plexus, and the latter obtains its supply of blood. The fissure is bounded above by the corpus callosum and fornix in the middle, and on each side by a free margin of the hemisphere formed by the fascia dentata and corpus fimbriatum ; inferiorly, it is bounded near the middle line by the corpus qiiadri- gemina, and on each side by the back part of the optic thalamus. In its central part it lodges the velum interj)ositum. Septum Lucidum.—The internal boundary of the lateral ven- tricle is the septum lucidum. This septum is thin, semi-transparent, and consists of two laminte of cerebral substance attached above to the under surface of the corpus callosum at its anterior part, and below to the fornix. Each of these laminse consists of white and grey matter, the white being situated on the surface looking towards the lateral ventricle, the grey matter nearer the middle line of the brain. Between the two layers is a narrow space, the fifth ven- tricle, which is lined by a proper membrane. The fifth ventricle may be shown by snipping through the septum lucidum transversely with the scissors. The corpus callosum should now be cut aci'oss towards its an- terior extremity, and the two ends carefully dissected awav. The anterior portion will Ije retained only by the septum lucidum, but