390 BBANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Tlie middle temporal branch passes through an opening in the temporal fascia immediately aljove the zygoma into tlie suijstance of the temporal muscle, and sends small Ijranches to that muscle, in- osculating with the deep temporal arteries. It gives off a small orbital branch which passes forward immediately aljove tlic zygoma, between the two layers of the temporal fascia, and inos- culates beneath the orbicularis palpebrarum, witli the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic artery. The INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY, the other terminal Ijrancli of the external carotid, has next to Ije examined. Dissection.—The internal maxillary artery passes inwards behind the neck of the lower jaw to the deep structures in the face ; we re- quire, therefore, to remove several parts for the purpose of seeing it conij)letely. To obtain a good view of the vessel, the zygoma should Fig 253.—Diagram of the branches of the internal maxiUary artery, i. External carotid. 2. Superficial temporal, s. Internal maxillary. 4. Anterior tympanic. = Middle meningeal. 6. Inferior dental. 7. Lesser meningeal. 8. Masseteric, q Posterior temporal. 10. Pterygoid. 11. Anterior temporal. 12. Buccal. 13. Infraorbital. 14. Spheno-palatiue. 15. Descending palatine. 16. Superior dental. 17. Vidian. 18. Pterygo-palatine. be sawn across in front of the external ear, and the malar bone near the orbit. Turn down the zygomatic arch with the masseter muscle. In doing this, a small artery and nerve will be seen crossing the sig- moid notch of the loAver jaw to enter the masseter muscle (masseteric). Saw through the ramus of the jaw on a level with the crowns of the molar teeth, and divide the neck of the condyle with cutting forceps, then turn the coronoid process with the insertion of the temporal muscle upwards towards the skull; some vessels Avill be seen enter- ino- the under surface of the muscle ; these are the deep temporal. If^the artery lies beneath the external pterygoid muscle, it will he necessary to disarticulate the condyle of the jaw and turn it inwards, together with the muscle itself. The artery and the deep branches of the inferior maxillary nerve will be seen lying against the internal