STEUCTURE OF THE UTERUS. 789 uterus, extending from the fundus to about tlie lower third, where it is reflected on to the bladder, forming the redo-vesical fold. On the posterior aspect it not only covers the whole surface of the uterus, but passes on to the posterior vaginal wall for rather more than an inch, and from thence is continued to the rectum, forming the recto-vaginal pouch or space of Douglas. In the unimpregnated state the muscular coat is exceedingly dense in texture, ofl'ers resistance to section with the scalpel, and appears to be composed of whitish fibres inextricably interlaced and mingled with blood-vessels. In the impregnated uterus the fibres are of large size, distinct, and separable into three layers -. external, which are longitudinal and transverse, the former constituting a thin plane on the anterior and posterior surface and fundus of the organ, the latter being prolonged outwards on the Fallopian tubes, and into the round and ovarian ligaments ; middle, a tliick layer Fig. 487.—Uterus with its appendages viewed from the front, i. Body of the uterus. 2. Fundus. 3. Cervix. 4. Os uteri. 5. Vagina; the figure is placed on the posterior raplie or colunina, from whicli tlie transverse rugaj are seen pMssingofT at each side. 6, 6. Broad ligament of the uterus. 7. Convexity of the broad ligament formed by the ovary. 8, 8. Round ligaments of the uterus. 9, g. Fallopian tubes. 10, 10. Fimbriated extremities of the Fallopian tubes ; on the left side the mouth of the tube is turned forwards in order to show its ostium abdominale. 11. Ovary. 12. Utero-ovarian ligament. 13. Tubo-ovarian ligament, on wliicli some small fimbria; are continued for a short distance. 14. Peritoneum of anterior surface of \iterus. This membrane is removed at the left side, but on the right is continuous with tlie anterior layer of the broad ligament. consisting of flat bundles of transverse, longitixdinal, and oblique fibres, complexly interlaced, and traversed by a jjlexus of large veins, which give this portion of the substance of the uterus a spongy appearance : and an internal layer of longitudinal fibres, which is thin and slender, and is disposed chiefly on the back of the fundus. The muscular tissue of the uterus is of the unstriped variety, and consists of long, nucleated, fibre cells, mixed with a con- siderable f[uantity of areolar tissue in which are many nucleated cells. The mucous membrane, of a whitish or pale red colour, is closely connected, or more correctly, is blended with the muscular coat; it is characterised by possessing a very thick layer of muscularis mucosae, a ciliated epithelium, and a number of tubular glands.