335 EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS. jihalcangeal articulation unites with the tendon derived from the ( ommon extensor. The common tendon then spreads out into a 1 >road expansion which divides into three slips to be inserted as in the other fingers into the last two phalanges. It is to this muscle t hat the little finger owes its power of separate extension ; and, being called into action when the point of the fiiiger is introduced into t he meatus of the ear, for the purpose of removing impleasant sen- sations or producing titillation, the muscle was called by the old writers " auricularis." Nerve-supply.—Posterior interosseous. The EXTENSOR CARPI ULNARIS arises from the external con- dyle by the common tendon, from the posterior border of the ulna 1 ly an aponeurosis common to the flexor carpi ulnaris, flexor pro- fundus digitorum, and this muscle, and from the deep fascia. Its tendon passes tlirough the posterior groove in the lower extremity of the ulna, to be inserted into the ulnar side of the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Relations.—By its supei-ficial surface with the deep fascia of the forearm, and posterior annular ligament. By its dee2} surface with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, extensor secundi internodii, extensor indicis, ulna, and wrist-joint. By its radial border it is in relation with the extensor communis digi- torum and extensor minimi digiti, and by the uhiar border with the anconeus. Nerve-supply,—Posterior interosseous. The ANCONEUS is a small triangular muscle, having the appear- ance of being a continuation of the triceps ; it arises from the outer condyle and is inserted into the olecranon and triangular surface on the outer and back part of the upper extremity of tlie ulna. Relations.—By its superficial surface with a strong tendinous aponeurosis derived from the triceps. By its deep surface with the elbow-joint, orbicular ligament, and slightly with the supinator brevis. Nerve-supply.—Musculo-spiral. Deep Layer. Supinator brevis. Extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis. Extensor primi internodii pollicis, Extensor secundi internodii pollicis. Extensor indicis. Dissection.—The muscles of the superficial layer should be re- moved in order to bring the deep group completely into view The SUPINATOR BREVIS cannot be seen in its entire extent until the radial extensors of the carpus are divided from their origin. It arises from the external condyle, from the external lateral and orbicular ligament, and from a rough depression below the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and winds around the upper part of the