TIBIA. 165 below the oblique line, tbe nutrient canal, which is directed down- wards. The triangular space above the oblique line is occupied by the popliteus muscle. The borders of the tibia are anterior, internal, and external. The anterior border is sharp and curved outwards in its upper two-thii'ds, and rounded and curved inwards below. It is known as the crest of the tibia, and, poj)ularly, as the shin. The internal border is most prominent in the middle, and is rounded above and below ; it gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, and to the soleus and flexor longus digitorum muscles. The external border gives attach- ment throughout its whole length to the interosseous mem- brane, and divides below to enclose a triangular rough .1; space, for the in terosseous ligament between the lower end of til^ia and fibula. The inferior ex- tremity of the bone is somewhat quad- rilateral, and i^ro- longed on its inner side into a large process, the internal mallenlus. The inner siu-face of the malleolus is smooth for articulation witli tlie astragalus; at its tip is a small de- pression for the in- ternal lateral liga- ment of the ankle- .joint. Beliind the internal malleolus is a broad and shaUow groove for lodging the tendons of the tibialis posticus and Hexor longus digitorum ; and fartlier outwards another groove for the tendon ot the flexor longus hallucis. At the outer side the surface is concave and triangular, rough above for the attachment of the fibuTTrl^l ^^'^f^^'-.'^^ ^^ticulate with the nr. ;• 1 . ^""^^""I'^y °^ the bone is a triangular smooth surface for articulation with the astragalus. Development.--Ey three centres ; one for the shaft, one for the Ss^J i^'J"'^^"''^^" tubercle, and one for the Wr ex tremity. Os.s.f,cation commences 111 the tibia immediately after tha 11 Fig. 144.—Tibia and fibula of tbe right leg articulated and seen trom behind. 1. Articular depression lor the external condyle of tbe femur. 2. Articular depression for the in- ternal condyle ; the prominence between the two is the spinous pro- cess. 3. l''ossa and groove for the insertion of the tendon of the semi- membranosus. 4. Popliteal i)lane, for the origin of the iiopliteus. 5. Oblique line. 6. Nutrient fora- men. 7. Surface of tlie shaft on which the flexor longus digitorum rests. 8. Broad groove on tbe back part of the inner malleolus, forthe tendons of the flexor longus digi- torum and tibialis posticus. 0. Groove for the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. 70. Shaft of the fibulii. The flexor longus hallucis lies on this surface of the bone ; its supeiior limit being marked by the oblique line im- mediately above the figure, n. Styloid processes on the head of the fibula for tlie atiachment of the tendon of the biceps. 12. Sub- cutaneous surface of the lower part of tlie sliaft of the fibula. 13. External malleolus formed by tiie lower extremity of the fibula. 14. Groove on the posterior part of tlie external malleolus for the tendons of the peronei muscles.