MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 492 Bet^y•een the olivary body and the anterior median fissure i« a pyramidal strand of white nerve matter called the anterior pyra- mid ; it forms a rounded projection into which tlie fibres from the decussation of the pyramids pass, and is marked by a con- stricting groove at its connection with tlie pons. The outer part of each anterior pyramid is formed by fibres continued ujjwards fi'om the direct pyramidal trad of the same side of the spinal cord ; the inner and larger portion consists of .the fibres of the crossed 'pyra- midal tract of the opposite side of the cord, which, as already mentioned, enter it at the de- cussation. Behind the olivary body a narrow white nerve strand will be observed,—this is the oli- vary fasciculus or fillet; it is derived from the mixed zone of the lateral column of the cord, and will be traced to the corpora tpiadrigemina and optic thalamus. Curving round the lowei end of the olive are the ex- ternal arciform or arcuate fibres. They issue from the anterior median fissure, cross the anterior pyramids, skill the lower end of the filivar}- body, and being joined liy the lateral cerebellar tract ot the cord, forni the restiform body. The groove between the olive and anterior jjyramid is continuous with the slight marking on the cord at the origin of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves ; here, however, it is a more distinct furrow, and lodges the two bundles of root fibres of the hypoglossal nerve. At the back of the olive and its fasci- culus is another groove, continuous with the posterior lateral sulcus of the cord, and giving origin from above downwards to the glosso- pharyngeal, vagus, and spinal accessory nerves. At the back part of the medulla and bordering on the posterior fissure is a narrow strand of fibres, already described in the spinal cord as the postero-internal strand or column of Goll; here it is Fig. 293 Front view of the upper part of the cranio-spinal axis, with tlie origins of the nerves, m. Medulla oblongata, j). Anterior pyramids, cl. Their decussation, o. Olivary bodies, p. Pons Varolii, c.b. Crus cei-ebelli. s. Crus cerebri, m. Cor- pora mammillavia. t. Tractus opticus, c. Chiasma. 2. Optic nerve. 3. Motor oculi. 4. Patheticus. 5. Fifth pair. a. Its larger root. 6. Its smaller root. g. Gasserian ganglion. 6. Abducens. 7. Facial. 8. Auditory. 9. Glosso - pharyngeal. 10. Vagus. II. bpinal accessory. 12. Hypo- glossal, i'. First spinal nerve. 2'. Second spinal nerve, v. Its gangHon.