i6o FEMUR, removal of calculi from the blaclder ; and to the accoucheur, as explaining the course taken by the fujtii.s during pai'tui'ition. There are certain characteristic differences between the male and female pelvis. In the male the Ijones ai'e thicker, stronger, and more solid, the cavity being deeper and nai'rower. In the female the bones are lighter and more delicate, the iliac fossa? large, and the ilia expanded ; the inlet, outlet, and cavity are large, and the aceta- bula farther removed from each (jther ; the cavity is shallow, the tuberosities widely separated, the obturator foramina triangular, the sacrum broader and its curvature chiefly limited to the lower end, the coccyx more movable, and the span of the pubic arch greater. The precise diameter of the inlet and outlet, and the depth of the cavity of the female pelvis, are important considerations to the accoucheur. Three diameters are usually described in each part of the true pelvis ; they are : (i) Antero-posterior or conjugate ; (2) Transverse ; and (3) Oblique. The following table shows the comparative measure- ments in the male and female pelvis in inches :— Malk. 1 Fema le. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Brim. Cavity. Outlet. Antero-posterior diametei-. 4 4i 4^ 5 5 Transverse diameter . 5 4} 5i 4i Oblique diameter 4f 4i 4 5 4i FEMUR. The femur, the longest bone of the skeleton, is situated obliquely in the ujiper part of the lower limb, articulating by means of its head with the acetabulum, and inclining inwards as it descends, until it abuost meets its fellow of the opposite side at the knee. In the female this obliquity is greater than in the male, in consequence of the great breadth of the pelvis. The femur is divisible into a shaft, a superior, and an inferior extremity. At the upper extremity is a rounded head directed upwards and inwards, and marked just below its centre by an OA^al depression for the ligamentum teres. The head is supported by a neck, which varies in length and obliquity with sex and period of life, being long and oblique in the adult male, shorter and more horizontiil in the female and in old age. Externally to the neck is a large process, the trochanter major, which presents on its anterior surface an oval facet for the attachment of the tendon of the gluteus minimus muscle ; and on its outer surface, an oV)lique line for the insertion of the "-hit'eus medius. On its posterior side is a vertical ridge (quadrate line) ior the attachment of the quadratus femoris muscle. At the inner side of the trochanter major is a deep pit, trochanteric or digital fossa at the bottom of which the obturator externus muscle is