326 POSTERIOR HUMERAL REGION. Nerve - supply. — The nuiscvilo-cutaneous and nuisculo-spiral nei've.s. Actions.—The coraco-brachialis draws the humerus inwards, and assists in flexing it upon the scapula. The biceps is one of the chief tlexors of the elbow-joint; it is also an important supinator, this action resulting from the attachment of the tendon to the back ])art of the tubercle of the radius. It makes tense the fascia of the forearm, and so assists the muscles connected with the fascia. Its long tendon passing through the shouldei - joint acts as a ligament, keejiing the head of the humerus in its place, and the same tendon, where it lies in the bicipital groove, linuts the outward rotation of the humerus in supination, l)y pressing against the lesser tuljc- rosity. Lastly, the biceps acts as an extensor of the arm at the shoulder, assisting the deltoid. The brachialis anticus is a powerful flexor of the elbow, and in some measure supplies the place of an anterior ligament to that joint. Posterior Humeral Region. Triceps brachii. Dissection. — Remove the integu- ment and fascia from the posterior^ aspect of the upper arm. The TRICEPS BRACHII (havhig three heads ; triceps extensor cubiti) arises by three heads : external, middle, and internal. The external head arises from tlie outer part of the posterior surface of the humerus in a line extending from the insertion of the teres minor to the iiiusculo-spiral groove, and from a teu- 4. uiecranou pro- "iLini^iiiu o| ^xt^ g,^ j cess of ulna. 5. Radius. 6. Cap- diuous arch derived from the uppa sular ligament of the shoulder- p.^^.j^ ^lie external intermuscular septum and bridging over the upper part of the groove. Tlie internal head is attached to the inner maro-iu of the humerus below the iusertiou of the teres major, to the whole of the posterior surface of the bone below the musculo- spiral groove to the back of the internal condyle and posterior aspect of both external and internal intermuscular septum, i le vnddle or long head arises by a tendon from the ridge l>elow tlie glenoid cavity of the scapula and the adjoining rough porliou Fig. 225.—Posterior view of the upper arm, and triceps muscle. I. External head. 2. Long or scapular head. 3. Internal or short head. 4. Olecranon pro