GLANDS OF MOUTH. 7o6 the name of lingual glands. The sub.stance of the tonsil is formed of a great numl^er of lymphoid nodules, with some looser reticulai tissue between them. The mucous glands of the mouth are racemose glands ; they are yellowisli or wliitish in colour, rounded in form, and situated in the submucous areolar tissue. The labial glands vary in size from half a line to one line and a half in diameter, and form an almost continuous layer ai'ound the mouth. The buccal glands are numerous, but smaller than the labial; a few of larger .size being located near the aperture of Stenson's duct. The molar glands are placed between the masseter and buccinator, and pierce the latter with their ducts opposite the molar teeth. The palatine glands are situated in the posterior half of the hard palate and in the soft jjalate ; in the latter forming a layer several lines in breadth. They are also numerous but small on the pos- terior part of the soft palate. The lingual glands form a thick stratum in the submucous tissue beneath the mncous crypts at the root of the tongue ; the layer of glands extends completely across the tongue, and their ducts, se\-eral lines in length, open by infun- di1:)uliform expansions, some into the mncous cryiDts, others into the foramen caecum, others into the fossa3 of the papillre circnm- vallatte, and others between the papillae. They are surrounded l)y a large quantity of lymplioid tissue which is here and there collected into round masses called Ijnnphoid nodules, many of these being grouped around the cavities of the mucous crj-jDts, Mucous glands are also dispersed on other parts of the tongue, but are smaller and few in number: a small group is found between the vertical folds on the sides of the Fig. 412.—Vertical section of the tonsil, i. Hiliis with vessel entering it. 2. Epi- thelial external layer. 3. Mucous crypt. 4. Lymphoid iiodule. 5. Submucous tissue of the fauces terminating in the tonsil. 6. Interstitial couneciive tissue. Pig. 413.—Mucous crypt from the root of the tongue. I, I. Epithelium. 2, 2. Papillit; of the mucous mem- brane. 3. C;i- vity of the crypt. 4. In- vesting coat oi' the gland, cotu- posed of areolar tissue. 5, 5. Fibro - vascular matrix, form- ing tlic paren- chyma of the crypt; and con- taining, 6, 6, Lymphoid no- dules surround- ing the crypt.