BEACHIAL PLEXUS. 569 lower down it is placed between the clavicle and subclavius muscle above, and the first rib and first serration of the serratus magnus muscle below. In the axilla, it is situated at first to the outer side of and then behind the axillary artery, resting by its outer border against the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Lower down it completely surrounds the artery. The branches of the brachial plexus are: from the outer cord, one of the anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the outer head of the median ; from the inner cord, the other anterior thoracic nerve, inner head of the median, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous of Wrisberg, and ulnar ; from the posterior cord, the subscapular nerves, circumflex, and musculo-sjDiral. Besides these, the brachial plexus, while in the neck, gives off several superior muscular branches: one to the subclavius muscle, Fig. 333.—Nerves forming the bra- chiiil plexus. The numerals 5, 6, 7, 8, and i, refer to the four lower cervical and first dorsal nerves. R. Nerve to the rhom- boid muscles. Ft. Posterior or long thoracic. Ss. Supra-scapu- lar. Sc. Nerve to the subclavius. Uss. Upper subscapular. Lss. Long subscapular. Iss. Inferior subscapular. Eat. External an- terior thoracic. lat. Internal anterior thoracic. Mc. Musculo- cutaneous. M. Median. Ms. Musculo-spiral. U. Ulnar. Ic. Internal cutaneous. Lie. Lesser internal cutaneous. *** Ante- rior and (ttt) posterior branches of the three primary trunks. C. Circumflex. one to the rhomboid muscles and levator anguli scapulao; one of large size, the suprascapular; and a long and slender nerve which passes down the thoracic wall of the axilla, the posterior thoracic or external respiratory nerve of Bell. The spinal nerves with which each of the nerves of the brachial plexus is connected are shown in the subjoined table; the higher numl)ers refer to the cervical nerves, the unit to the dorsal nerve: Suhscapular ] Ulnar .... 8, i, or 7,8,1. Circumflex \ from 5, 6, 7, 8. Internal cutaneous ) Musculo-spiral ) Lesser internal ^ 8, i. External cutaneous 5, 6, 7, cutaneous . . ) Median 5, 6, 7, 8, i. Anterior ( Outer 5, 6, 7. thoracic \ Inner 8, i.