INTERNAL FEMOllAL REGION. 358 external cutaneous nerve and iliac fascia, which latter separates it fi'oni the peritoneum, on the right from the caecum, and on the left from the sigmoid flexure of tlie colon ; externally to tlie pelvis, with the fascia lata, rectus, and sartorius. By its posterior surface witlj the iliac fossa, margin of the pelvis, and cajjsule of the hip-joint, a synovial bursa of large si/e being interposed. This bursa some- times communicates with the synovial membrane of the ilio-femoral articulation. By its irmer border, with the psoas magnus and an- terior crural nerve. Nerve-supply.—Anterior crural nerve. The iliac fascia is the aponeurotic investment of the psoas and iliacus muscle ; and, like the transversalis fascia, is thick below, and becomes gradually thinner as it ascends. It is attached superiorly, along the edge of the psoas, to the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, to the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and to the bodies of the lumbar vertebraa, leaving arches corres])ond- ing with tlie constincted part of the vertebrte for the transit of the lumbar vessels. Lower down it passes beneath the external iliac vessels, and is attached along the margin of the true pelvis ; ex- ternally it is connected to the crest of the ilium ; and, inferiorly, to the outer two-thirds of PouiDart's ligament, where it is continuous with the transversalis fascia. Passing beneath Poupart's ligament,, it surrounds the psoas and iliacus muscle to its termination, and beneath the inner part of the femoral arch forms the posterior segment of the crural canal and sheath of the femoral vessels. The PSOAS MAGNUS (\//'da, lumbus, a loin), situated by the side of the vertebral column in the loins, is a long fusiform muscle. It arises from the bodies and bases of transverse processes of the last dorsal and all the lumbar vertebrae. It also takes its origin from the intervertebral substance, and from a series of tendinous arches attached to the vertebra3, and intended for the protection of the lumbar vessels and branches of the sympathetic nerve in their passage between the muscle and the bone. From this extensive origin the muscle passes along the margin of the brim of the pelvis, ancl beneath Poupart's ligament, to its insertion. The tendon of the psoas magnus is joined by the iliacus, and inserted into the posterior part of the trochanter minor, a bursa being interposed. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the ligamentum arcuatum. internum of the diaphragm, kidney, psoas parvus, genito-crural nerve, sympathetic nerve, psoas fascia, peritoneum, colon, and along its pelvic border, the common and external iliac artery and vein. By its posterior surface with tlie lumbar verteln-se, lumbar arteries, quad- ratus lumborum (from which latter 'it is separated by the anterior layer of the aponeurosis of the transversalis), and crural nerve, which, near Poupart's ligament, reaches its outer side. The lumbar plexus of nerves is situated in the substance of the posterior part of the muscle. In the thigh the muscle is in relation with the fascia lata in front; the border of the pelvis and hip-joint, from which it is separated by the synovial membrane, common to it and the preced-