SALIVARY GLANDS. 7o8 liyoid and hyo-glossus to the fraBnum linguae, by tlie side of which it terminates at the apex of a papilla, canmcula sublingualis. A process of the gland is pro- "oTo Fio. 414.—Section of part of the human submaxillary gland. To tlie right of the figure is a group of mucous alveoli, to the left a group of serous alveoli ; in the former the mar- ginal cells are seen, forming the lunula of Gianuzzi. longed with the duct for a sliort distance above the mylo-liyoid. The' SUBLIN- GUAL is a long and flattened gland, situated be- neath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, at the side of the fraenum linguae. It is in relation at the fraenum with its fellow of the opposite side, and in the rest of its course lies between the lower jaw and genio-hyo-glossus, being bounded be- low by the mylo- hyoid. It is in relation also with the duct of the submaxillary gland and the hypo- glossal nerve. Its secretion is poured into the mouth by from seven to twenty short ducts, ducts of Rivinus, which open on the ridge made by the gland in the floor of the mouth ; the larger openings being situated by the side of the fraenum linguae. One of the ducts longer than the rest, and opening close to Wharton's duct, has been named ductus Bartholini. Structure.—The salivary glands are of the racemose kind, con- sisting of lobes which are made up of polyhedral lobules ; and these of smaller lobules ; in minute structiu'e they correspond with the racemose glands described on p. 62. Two kinds of alveoli are, however, to be distinguished, namely, those secreting a thick, ropy fluid containing mucin, and hence called mucous alveoli; and those secreting a more waterj^ fluid often con- taining serum-albumin, and named serous alveoli. The jmrotid is composed of serous alveoli, the sublingual of mucous alveoli, but the submaxillary is mixed in character, containing both kinds. The mucous alveoli are distinguished by possessing two sets of cells, namely, large, clear, almost spheroidal mucigenous cells, with n Hat nucleus near tlie basement membrane ; and densely clustered smaller cells with oval nuclei, lying near the periphery of the alveolus