SUPERIOE CONSTEICTOE MUSCLE. ! ment. It radiates from its origin, and spreads out upon the side of I the pharynx, the lower fibres descending and being overlapped by ■ the inferior constrictor ; the upper fibres ascending, so as to cover in I the superior constrictor. It is inserted into the raphe of_ the pharynx, i and by a fibrous aponeurosis into tlie basilar process of the occipital : bone. ] Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral coluuin, ! longus coUi, rectus anticus major, carotid vessels, inferior constrictor, 1 hyo-glossus, lingual artery, pharyngeal plexus of nerves, and some I lymphatic glands. By its internal surface witli the superior con- i strictor, stylo-pharyngeus, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous membrane of the pharynx. ' The upper portion of this muscle must be turned down, to bring !tlie whole of the superior constrictor into view ; in so doing, the I stylo-jiharyngeus muscle will be seen passing behind its upper I border. The SUPERIOR CONSTRICTOR is a thin and quadrilateral plane of muscular fibres arising from the side of the tongue, the mucous ; membrane of the fioor of the mouth, the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower jaw, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and lower third of the i^osterior margin of the internal pterygoid plate ; and inserted, into the raphe of the pharynx and basilar process of tlie occipital bone. Its superior fibres are arched, leaving a concave interspace between its ujij^er border and the basilar jjrocess; some of its lower fibres are continuous with those of the genio-hyo-glossus on the side of the tongue, and it is overlapped inferiorly by the middle constrictor. I Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral column and ! muscles of the latter, behind ; Avith the vessels and nerves contained in the maxillo-phcmjngeal space laterally, and with the middle con- strictor, stylo-pharyngeus, and tensor palati. By its internal surface hvith the levator palati, palato-pharyngeus, tonsil, and mucous niem- ibrane of the pharynx. I Nerve-supply.—The consti-ictor muscles of the pharynx are supplied by a plexus of nerves derived from the superior laryngeal and pharyngeal branches of the pneumogastric, the glosso-pharyn- geal, and cervical plexus, mixed with some hl)res from the sym- pathetic. Muscular Interspaces.—The three constrictor muscles of tlie pharynx, having festooned upper edges, necessarily leave between tliem muscular interspaces ; these being occupied by important structures, require to be recognised and remembered. The first is l)laced between the unper edge of the superior constrictor and the i base of the skull, and has received the name of Sinus of Mor- : gagni ; it gives passage to the Eustachian tube, levator palati muscle, and a branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery, and is i closed in by the pharyngeal aponeurosis and mucous menibrane. I The second space is between the superior and middle constrictors ; it contains the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and glosso-pharyngeal nerve. I