FASCIAE OF THE ABDOMEN. 286 Tlic superficial fascia at the iipjier part of the abdomen is con timious with tlie sujierficial fascia of the thorax ; it is loose, ai'eolar, and contains hut little fat. As it descends it becomes tliickei', mor elastic, and very fatty, and is continued into tlie su])erficial fascia o the thigh. Over the jniljes tlie fascia contains much coarse-gi-ained fat, but as it passes on to the penis this ceases, and is I'eplaced by elastic tissue; and on its continuation into the scrotum, a layer of uustrii)ed muscular tissue takes the jilace of the fat, forming the tunica dartos. Along the linea alba and in the groin, fine filji'ous bands connect the superficial fascia with the deep layer and with the aponeurosis of the external oblique. Branches of the superficial epigastiic, superficial external pudic, and superficial circumflex iliac arteries and their companion "S'eins ramify in the substance of the fascia, and the superficial lymphatic vessels are distributed throughout it; in the groin it lodges the inguinal lymjihatic glands. The deep fascia {Scar-pa's fascia) lies on the abdominal aponeurosis, a thin layer of connective tissue being interposed. It is continued ligament, but about half an inch farther down the thigh. The deep fascia is continued down into the scrotum, where it forms a sheath for the testicle, the processes from the two sides coml)iniug in the middle line to form the septum scroti. In the perineum it becomes inseparable from the deep layer of the superficial fascia of that region (fascia of CoUes), and is attached to the ramus of _ the pubes on each side. From this description it folloA\-s that if air or fiiiid be forced under the deep fascia, it will tra\-el through the connective tissue all over the abdomen, and could reach the scrotum and peri- neum, but could not pass down the thigh, being prevented by tlie connection of the fascia with the rami of the i)ubes, and the attacli- , inent of the fascia lata in the groin ; it would, moreover, be pre- vented from infiltrating the Imck part of the i)erineum by the deej) laver of the superficial fascia being united to the deep perineal fascia alono- the posterior edge of the transverse perineal muscle. Linea Alba, &c.—AVhen the external ol)licpie muscle is dis.sected on both sides, a white tendinous line will be seen along the middle of the abdomen, extending from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes ; jp^r tachment a triangular piece is pi'o- 'h I longed to the dorsum of the penis, I and is called the suspensory liga- upwards over the abdomen, being closely adherent to the linea alba. From the lower part of this at- Skin. 7. Scar- pa's fascia. ii ment of the jjenis, the sujierficial part of which is formed of elastic tissue and the deep part of white fibrous tissue. At the groin the deep fascia is attached to the fascia lata of the thigh by a piece which joasses down from its rnider surface along the line of Poupart's