EXTRINSIC MUSCLES OF THE EAR. 233 produce the vertical wrinkles of the forehead. The tensor tarsi is an auxiliary to the orbicularis, and draws the extremities of the lachrymal canals inwards, so as to place the jiuncta in the best position for receiving the tears. It compresses the lachrymal sac, and serves also to keep the lids in relation with the surface of the eye. 3. Auricular Group.— Attollens auriculam, Attrahens auriculam, Retrahens auriculam. Dissection.—If the pinna of the ear be drawn down by means of a hook, a ridge of skin will rise up, extending from the ear to the cut edge of the scalp ; along this ridge an incision is to be made and the skin reflected downwards ; by this means the upper of the three muscles will be exposed. In like manner the pinna must be drawn liackwards to expose the attrahens, and forwards to expose the retra- liens, the skin being removed Ijy an incision close around the base of the ear, supj)lemented by others running in the course of the muscles. The muscles are best dissected by commencing with their tendons, and thence proceeding in the course of their radiating fibres. The ATTOLLENS AURICULAM, the largest of the three, is a thin fan-shaped plane of muscular fibres, arising from the lateral ])ortion of the epicranial aponeurosis at about the middle of the temporal ridge, and inserted into tlie upper jiart of the concha and inner and upper part of the pinna. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by the internal with the temporal fascia. Nerve-supply.—Temporal branches of facial. The ATTRAHENS AURICULAM arises from the lateral portion of the epicranial aponeurosis above the zygoma, and is inserted into the spine of the helix. It is often blended with the anterior edge of the former muscle. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by the internal witli the temporal fascia and temporal artery and veins. Nerve-supply.—Temporal Ijranches of facial. The RETRAHENS AURICULAM arises by two (sometimes three) muscular slips from the root of the mastoid process. They are inserted into the posterior surface of the concha. It is in relation by its external surface with the integument, and by its internal surface with the mastoid portion of tlie temporal bone. Nerve-supply.—Posterior auricular branch of facial, and small occipital nerves. Actions.—The actions of the auricular muscles are expressed in their nauies ; tliey have but little power in man, but are important muscles in brutes.