ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 36o Tlie pectineus must be divided near its origin and turned outwards, and the adductor longus tlirougli its middle, turning its ends to eitlier side, to bring into view the adductor brevis. Nerve-supply.—Obturator nerve. The ADDUCTOR BREVIS, placed behind the pectineus and ad- ductor longus, is fleshy, and thicker than the adductor longus ; it arises from the body of the os pubis, and is inserted into the line leading from the lesser trochanter to the linea aspera, immediately behind the insertion of the pectineus. Nerve-supply.—Obturator nerve. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pectineus, adductor longus, and anterior branch of the obturator nerve and artery. By its posterior surface with the adductor magnus. By its outer border with the obturator externus, and tendon of the psoas and iliacus. By its inner border with the gracilis and adductor magnus. It is pierced near its insertion by the middle perforating artery. The adductor brevis may now be divided from its origin and turned outwards, or its inner two-thirds may be cut away entirely, when the adductor magnus muscle will be exposed in its entire extent. The ADDUCTOR MAGNUS is a broad triangular muscle, forming a septum of division between the muscles situated on the anterior and those on the posterior aspect of the thigh. It arises by fleshy fibres froin the ramus of the pubes and ischium and from the ante- rior border of the tuber ischii ; and radiating in its passage out- wards, is inserted into the line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, to the whole length of the middle lip of the linea aspera, and' by a rounded tendon into a small spine on the inner condyle of the femur. The adductor magnus is pierced by five openings ; the three superior, for the three perforating arteries; the fourth, for the termination of the profunda. The fifth is the large oval opening, in the tendinous portion of the muscle, that gives passage to the femoral vessels. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pectineus, adductor brevis, adductor longus, femoral artery and vein, and profunda artery and vein, with their branches. By its posterior surface with the semi-tendinosus, semi-niembranosus, biceps, and gluteus maxi- mus. By its inner border with the gracilis and sartorius. By its upper border with the obturator externus and quadratus femoris. Nerve-supply.—Obturator nerve. The GRACILIS ('slender) is situated along the inner border of the thigh. It arises by a broad but very thin tendon, horn the body of the OS pubis along the edge of the symphysis ; and from the margin of the ramus of the pubes and ischium ; it is inserted by a rounded tendon into the upper part of the inner side of the tibia, nearly as far forwards as the crest, beneath the expansion of the stirtorius. t , r • w Relations.—By its inner or superficial surface with the fascia lata, and below with the sartorius and internal saphenous nerve ; the internal saphena v6iu crosses it, lying superficially to the fascia lata.