LUNGS. 688 pulmonary artery, consequently tlie arrangement on the two sides is as follows:— Relations of the Roots of the Lung.—i. Both lungs. In front, phrenic nerve and companion vessels, anterior pulmonary plexus. Behind, vagus nerve and posterior pulmonary plexus. Below, liga- mentum latum pulmonis. 2. Right lung alone. Above, vena azygos major. In front, superior vena cava. 3. Left lung alone. Above, arch of aorta. Behind, descending aorta. The lung is of a soft spongy texture, and, from its containing air, crepitates when squeezed between the fingers. Its specific gravity- varies from .345 to .746. Wlien cut, there exudes a frothy fluid consisting of mucus and blood intimately mixed with air. In the young child the lung is of a rose-pink colour, but in the adult it is much darker from the presence of pigment; in 1)6th, the surface is mottled, from the area over the centre of each lobule being lighter than that over the periphery. The surface is marked out into small polyhedral di^asions, which are the outlines of the lobules. The lobules have their apices directed towards the centre of the lung, and their bases towards the surface; they are largest at the surface of the lung, and smallest near its centre; they are connected with each other at their apices by the smallest bronchial tubes. Each lobule is a miniature lung, and consists of bronchial tube, pulmonary artery and vein, air cells supported by an elastic stroma, lymphatic vessels, and nerves. It is isolated from surround- ing lobules by areolar tissue derived from the subserous layer; the entire lung is an assemblage of these lobules, so separated and sn connected, held together by the pleura. The serous investing membrane of the lungs or pleura is con- nected with the surface of the lobules by means of a subserous areolar tissue, which forms a distinct layer, and being prolonged between the lobules, serves to unite them. This layer contains elastic tissue, and is a chief source of the elasticity of the lungs; in it a close plexus of capillary vessels is found, and numerous lymphatics, which communicate witli the surface of the pleura by minute stomata. Bronchial Tubes.—The two bronchi proceed from the bifurcation of the trachea op]iosite the fourth dorsal vertebra to their correspond- ing lungs. The right, about an inch long, takes its course nearly at right angles with the trachea, passes behind the superior vena cava, and gives oft" a branch above the pulmonary artery {eparterial branch) to tlie upper lobe of the right lung : it then passes behind the artery Structure of the Lungs.