446 PERONEAL AETERY. The PERONEAL ARTERY is given off from tlie posterior tibial at about an incli below the lower border of the popliteus muscle ; it is nearly as lai'ge as the anterior tibial artery, and passes obliquely outwards to the fibula. It then runs downwards along the innei' border of the fibula to its lower third, where it divides into the anterioi' and jjosterior peroneal. Relations.—The peroneal artery rests on the tibialis jiosticu.s muscle, and is covered in by the soleus, intermuscular fascia, and flexor longus hallucis, having the fibula to it^ outer side. Branches. — The Ijranches of the pero- neal artery are—vius- cular to the soleus and neighbouring muscles; nutrient to the fibula; a communicating branch; and two terminal branches, anterior and posterior peroneal. The communicating branch is given ofi'neai' the loM^er end of the jjeroneal; it passes in- wards to join a oorre- sjoonding branch from the posterior tibial. The anterior pero- neal artery pierces the interosseous membrane at the lower third of the leg, and is distri- buted on the front of the outer malleolus, anastomosing with the external malleolar and tarsal arteries. The posterior pero- neal continues onAvard s along the posterior as- pect of the outer mal- leolus to the side of the OS calcis, to which, Pig. 271.—Posterior view of the leg, sliowin? tlie pop- liteal and posterior tibial arteries, i. Tendons of the inner ham-string. 2. Ten- don of the biceps, forming the outer ham-string. 3. Popliteus muscle. 4. Flex- or longus digitorum. 5. Tibialis posticus. 6. The ttbula; immediately below the figure is the origin of the flexor longus hallucis ; the muscle has been re- moved in order to expose the peroneal artery. 7. Pei'onei muscles, longus and brevis. 8. Lower part of the flexor longus hallu- cis muscle with its tendon. 9. Popliteal artery giving off articular and muscular branches; the two superior articular are seen in the upper part of the popliteal .space passing above the two heads of the gastroc- nemius muscle, which ai-c cut through near their origin. The two inferior are in relation with the popliteus muscle. 10. An- terior tibial artery passing through the angular inter- space between the two heads of the tibialis posti- cus muscle. II. Posterior tibial artery. 12. The re- lative position of the ten- dons and artery at the inner ankle from within outwards, previously to their passing beneatli the •internal annular ligament. 13. Peroneal artery, divid- ing a little below the figure, into two branches; 1lie anterior peroneal is seen piercing the interosseous membrane. 14. Pos- terior peroneal. ^^^^^ ^j^^ ^^^^^^^^j^^^ arising from it, it distributes external calcanean branches. It anas- tomoses with the anterior peroneal, tarsal, external plantar, and posterior tibial arteries. The nutrient artery of the tibia arises from the trunk of the