710 TEETH. Tlie temporary teeth are twenty in number : eight incisors, four canines, and eight molars. Tliere are no bicuspids in the temporary set, but the eight deciduous molars are succeeded by the permanent bicuspids. The following table shows the position of tlie teeth relative to each other, in each set, and the relation of those of the temporary to those of the permanent series :— Mo. Cm. In. Ca. Mo. Temporary (Uiiper 21412 =10 teeth. I Lower 2 i 4 i 2 Mo. Pm. Ca. In. Ca. Pm. Mo. Permanent < Ui3per 3 2 i 4 i 2 3=16 teeth. / Lower 5 'V"! a~~i 2 ^"^6^ = 20 32 Every tooth is divisible into a crown, which is the part above the gum ; a constricted portion around the base of the crown, the neck; and a root ov fang, which is contained within the alveolus. The root is invested by periosteum, which is a bond of comiection between it and the alveolus. Characters of the Permanent Teeth.—The incisors (cutting teeth) are named from jDresenting a sharp and cutting edge, formed at the expense of the posterior surface. The crown is flattened from before backwards, being somewhat convex in front and concave behind ; the neck is much constricted, and the root compressed from side to side ; at its apex is a small opening for the passage of the nerve and artery of the tooth. The upjDer incisors are directed they are larger than the lower, and slightly over- Tipper central incisors are much larger than the laterals ; their inner border is a little longer than their outer, and by this character we can distinguish the side to which a particular specimen be- longs. In the lower jaw the central incisors are smaller than the lateral, and have their fangs much flattened from side to side. The fangs of the lateral incisors are also flattened, but are longer than those of the central teeth. The canine teeth (cuspidati)follow the incisors in order from before in the uijper jaw, one at each side, and two iu the lower. The crown is larger than that of the in- FiG. 416.—Front and side view of a left upper central incisor, a. Crown, b. Neck. c. Fang. a little forwards lap them. The Flu. 417.—Lingual, labial, and distal surfaces of an upi)er canine. backwards : two are situated