784 DESCENT OF THE TESTICLE. scrotum, where it joins the dartos ; the internal passes in the direc- tion inwards, and has a firm attachment to the os pubis and slieath ot the rectus muscle. Besides these a number of muscular filjres are reflected from the internal ol)lifiue on the front of the tniberiia- culum. ° .1 '^i? descent of the testicle is gradual and progressive. Between the htth and sixth uionth it has reached the lower part of the psoa.s muscle, and, during the seventh, makes its way through the spermatic canal, and descends into the scrotum. While situated in the lumbar region, the testicle and gubernaculum are placed behind the peritoneum by which they are invested upon their anterior surface and sides, forming a mesorchium. As they ' Pia. 482. —Diagram illustrating the descent of the tes- ticle. I. Testicle. 2. Epididymis. 3, 3. Peritoneum. 4. iPouch formed a- round the testicle by the peritone- um, tlie future cavity of the tuni- ca vaginalis. 5. Pubic portion of the cremaster at- tached to the lower part of the testicle. 6. Portion of the . „ ,, ,. J If . , cremaster attached to Poupart s ligament. Ihe mode of eversion of the cremaster is shown by these lines. 7. Gubernaculum attached to the bottom of the scrotum. 8, 8. Cavity of the scrotum. ' Fig. 483.—In this figure the testicle has completed its descent. The gubernaculum is shortened to its utmost, and the cremaster completely everted. The pouch (pf peritoneum above tlie testicle is compressed so as to form a tubular canal, s. A dotted line marks the point at which the tunica vaginalis will terminate supe- riorly ; and the figure 2 its cavity. 3. Peritoneal cavity. sceiid, the investing peritoneum is carried downwards with the tes- ticle into the scrotum, forming a lengthened pouch, Avhich by its upper extremity opens into the cavity of the peritoneum. The upper part of this jDouch, being compressed by the sjjermatic canal, is gradually obliterated, the obliteration extending downwards along the spermatic cord nearly to the testicle. That portion of tlie peritoneum immediately surrounding the testicle is, by the abo-\ e process, cut off from its continuity with the jDeritoneum, and is termed the tunica vaginalis. In its descent the testicle receives cer- tain structures from the different layers of the abdominal wall; tliesi^ have been enumerated in connection with the description of inguinal hernia (p. 296), the coverings being exactly the same as those of llif oblique form of that affection. i