INFEKIOE TURBINATED BONES. superior maxilLary bone, internal with the ethmoid, and posterior with the sphenoid. The free surfaces are, superior or orbital, which forms the posteiior part of the floor of the orbit; and external, which looks into the spheno-maxillary fossa. The internal aspect generally sliows a hollow caA'ity which forms part of the posterior ethmoidal cell. The sphenoidal portion, much smaller than the orbital, has three surfaces, two lateral and one superior. The external lateral surface enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fossa ; the internal lateral forms part of the lateral boundary of the nares ; the superior surface articulates with the under part of the body of the sphenoid bone, and assists the sphenoidal spongy bones in closing the sphenoidal sinuses. This portion takes part in the formation of the pterygo-palatine canal. The pterygoid process or tuberosity of the palate bone is the thick and rough process which stands backAvards from the angle of union of the horizontal with the perpendicular portion of the bone. It is received into the angular fissure, which exists between the two plates of the pterygoid process at their inferior extremity, and pre- sents three surfaces : one concave and smooth, which forms part of the pterygoid fossa, and giA'es origin to some fibres of the internal pterygoid muscle ; and one at each side to articulate with the ptery- goid plates. Tlie anterior face of this process is rough, and articulates with the superior maxillary bone. Development.—By a single centre, which ajjpears in the angle of union between the horizontal and perpendicular portion, in the seventh or eighth week. Articulations.—With six bones : two of the cranium, sphenoid and ethmoid ; and four of the face, superior maxillary, inferior tur- binated, vomer, and the palate bone of the opposite side. Attachment of Muscles.—To four: tensor palati, azygos uvulae, internal and external pterygoid. INFERIOR TURBINATED BONES. The inferior turbinated or spongy bone, is a thin layer of light and porous bone, attached to the inferior turbinal crest of the inner Pio. 115.—Inferior turbinated bone of the riglit side. I, I. Its internal or convex surface. 2, 2, 3. Canal for a branch of tlie spheno- palatine artery. The figure 3 also denotes the anterior border of the bone. 4. Posterior border. 5, 5. Inferior border. 6. Anterior angle. 7. Posterior angle. 8. Superior angle. 9. Lachrymal process. 10. Ethmoidal process. II. A large iri egidar process, appertaining to the ethmoidal process, and articulating witli the ethmoid bone into the antrum. 12. An opening wall of the nares, and projecting inwards towards the septum It IS somewhat triangular in form, one angle being directed upwards and the curved base downwards ; and slightly curled upon itself so