CONSTRICTOR MUSCLES, 26o pharyngeal ligament. As it passes clown, the fascia giadual]\ becomes thinner, and at the lower part of the pharynx is distin- guishable only as a layer of connective tissue uniting the mucous and muscular coats. The constrictors of the pharynx are web-like sheets of nuiscl(; with fibres differently dis])osed, which form a muscular bag attached to the base of the skull. This bag communicates in front with the mouth. Each of the constrictors may be described as ha\dng one posterior attachment and several lateral. The INFERIOR CONSTRICTOR, the thickest of the three con- strictor muscles, arises from the cricoid cartilage, and the inferior cornn and ol)lif[ue line of the thyroid. Some tibi-es are continuous with those of the sterno-thyroid, tliyro-hyoid, and crico-thyroid muscles ; inferiorly it is blended ^Yit\\ the transverse fibres of tin- Fic. ig2.—Side view of the muscles of the pharynx, i. Trachea. 2. Cricoid car- tihige. 3. Crico-thyroid membrane. 4. Thyroid cartihige. 5. Tliyro-hyoid membrane. 6. Os hyoides. 7. Stylo- hyoid ligament. 8. Qisophagiis. 9. Inferior constrictor. 10. Middle con- strictor. II. Superior constrictor. 12. Stylo-pharyngeiis, passing down be- tween the superior and middle con- strictor. 13. Upper concave border of supeiior constrictor; at this point the muscular fibi-os of the pharynx are deficient. 14. Pterygo-raaxillary liga- ment. 15. Buccinator. 16. Orbicu- laris oris. 17. Mylo-hyoid. (jesophagus. Its fibres spread out, and ai'c inserted into the middle line of the pharynx, the inferior fibres being almost horizont;il, the superior oblique and overlapping the middle constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface with the vertebral colunni, longus ctilli, sheath of the common carotid artery, sterno-thyroid muscle, thyroid gland, and some lynijihatic glands. By its internal surface with the middle constrictoi-, stylo-])haryngeus, palato-pliaryii- o-ens, and mucous membrane of the pharynx. By its lower bordeA near the cricoid cartilage, it is in relation with the recurrent laryngeal nerve ; and by the uppar border with the superior laryn- geal nerve. The muscle must be remf)ved before the next can be fully seen. The MIDDLE CONSTRICTOR arises from the gi'eat cornu of the OS hyoides, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo-hyoid lig'i-