OKGANS OF SENSE. 6n The internal or visceral branches communicate very freely with the inferior hypogastric plexuses, and are distributed to the pelvic viscera. The last pair of sacral ganglia give off branches which join a small ganglion, situated on the first bone of the coccyx, called the ganglion impar, or azijgos. This ganglion serves to connect the extremities of the two sympathetic nerves. It gives off a few small branches to the coccyx and rectum, and communicates with the coccygeal nerve. COCCYGEAL GLAND. Numerous branches from the ganglion impar are given off to a .peculiar reddish body situated on the anterior asj)ect of the tij) of the coccyx, and called by Luschka, by whom it was first described, the coccygeal gland. It consists of an aggregation of little lobules or granviles, and has been shown by Arnold to be formed by a number of dilated and tortuous arteries connected with the middle sacral artery. In the stroma of the organ scattered nerve cells are found. ORGANS OF SENSE. The organs of sense, the instruments l^y which the animal frame is brought into relation with surrounding nature, are five in number. Four of these organs are situated within the head ; viz., the appa- ratus of smell, sight, hearing, and taste ; the remaining organ, that of touch, is resident in the skin, and distributed over the surface of the body. The latter was described in the section on Histology, p. 63. THE NOSE AND NASAL FOSSiE. The organ of smell consists essentially of two parts : one external, the nose ; the other internal, the nasal fossae. The nose is the triangular pyramid which projects from the centre of the face, immediately above the upper lip. Superiorly it is con- nected with the forehead by means of a narrow bridge ; inferiorly, it presents two openings, tlie nostrils, which overhang the mouth' and are so constructed that the odour of all substances must be re- ceived by the nose before they can be introduced Avithin the Hps. The septum between the openings of the nostrils is called the columna. Their entrance is guarded by a number of stiff hairs (vibrissa) which project across the openings, and act as a filter in preventing the introduction of foreign substances, such as dust or insects, with the current of air intended for respiration. The anatomical elements of which the nose is composed are • I. Integument. 2. Muscles. 3. Bones. 4. Cartilages. 5. Mucous membrane. 6. Vessels and nerves. I. The integument forming the tip (lobulus) and wings (ate) of the nose is extremely thick and dense, so as to be with difiiculty separated from the cartilages. It is furnished with an abun-