PONS VABOLII. 496 Wa nerve (?i.xii.), and (3 and 4) the two nuclei of the vagus (w.x. and n,x.^). Both the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando and the nucleus lateralis are present, but are much less distinct than in the previous section. In- ternal to the nucleus gracilis and a little anterior is a round bundle of white fibres, called the funiculus solitarius {f.s.) ; it is by some supposed to be the root of the phrenic nerve in the medulla. The course taken by the different nerve strands in passing through the medulla will be traced after the cerebrum and cerebellum have been described. PONS VAROLII. The pons Varolii (tuber annulare) is a convex arch of white matter situated above the medulla, and forming on each side a slightly constricted strand where it enters each lateral half of the cerebellum, and constitutes the middle peduncle of the crus cerebelli (processus ad pontem). Its upper border lies across the commencement of the crura cerebri, and its lower is marked off from the medulla by a deep groove; in the middle line it has a slight depression, which lodges the basilar artery. From its lateral aspect issue the two roots of the fifth nerve. The posterior sur- face of the pons is iU- defined ; it is flattened from before backwards, and forms the upper part of the floor of the fourtli ventricle. In longitudinal verti- cal section (Fig. 306, 26) it is seen that the sujoer- ficial transverse fibres form a moderately thick layer, and that beneath them is a band of ascend- ing fibres continued up- wards from the anterior po. Transverse fibies passing some behind pyi'amids * to these SUC- and some in front (po-) of pyramidal ^ i i x„ . ,„ > BS. t. Deeper fibres constituting trapezium. ceeciS a Cieep Lrans\ ei .-(- layer, intersected by as- cending fibres; then an- other longitudinal band of white matter, and l>e- liind this a mass of grey matter formed in great measure of the grey nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. In order, howcA'er, fully to understand the internal structure "f vni Pig. 297.—Section across pons at middle of fourth ventricle, py. Pyramid, continued up from me duUa, ~ ... bundles, t. Deeper r. Raphe, o.s. Superior olivary nucleus, a.v. Ascending root of fifth, vi. Sixth nerve, u.vi Its nucleus, vii. The seventh nerve, vii.a. In termediary nerve of Wrisbei-g. n.vii. Its nucleus. VIII. Superior root of auditory nerve. Part of the outer or superior nucleus, tion of a vein. Jl.VIII. V. Sec-