7i8 TEETH. temporary tooth. The dentinal papilla also of the permanent tooth grows wp beneath its enamel germ, and, assuming the characteristic shape of the tooth to be formed, has its superficial cells elongated and aggregated so as to form a membrana eboris, exactly in the same way as we have traced it in the case of the temporary tooth. The germ of the first permanent molar is formed about the sixteenth week liy a down-growth of the epithelium from the surface of the jaw, in tin- same way as the germ for the temporary teeth originated ; the second permanent molar has its germ formed from the neck of the enamel organ of the first molar about the third month after birth. The germ for the wisdom-tooth is formed from the neck of the enamel germ of the second jDermanent molar about the third year. Formation of the Hard Tissues. Enamel.—We have seen that the deeper cells of the enamel organ (those, namely, Avhich are next to the dentinal papilla) become elongated ; they also, by their mutual pressure, come to assume tlie form of elongated hexagonal prisms, and receive the distinctive title of enamel cells. A deposition of calcareous salts takes place in these cells, commencing at the end nearest to the papilla, and proceeding towards the centre of the enamel organ. As the process advances, the cells of the stratum intermedium assume the same form as the deeper cells, and in process of time become also calcified ; the stellate reticulum Avhich forms the great part of the enamel organ seems to take no active part in the formation of the enamel, but, as the latter is formed, becomes progressively reduced in quantity until at length the outer or suj)erficial cells (still eiDithelial in character, and become flattened) are in contact with the enamel cells. As the latter are hexagonal in form (from' mutual compression), the fibres which re- sult from their calcification are necessarily hexagonal prisms. The outer part of the cell is first calcified, the centre later, so that the outer j)art of the prismatic fibre is the hardest; and when fracture of the enamel takes place it usually follows the line of the centre of the fibre, this being less perfectly calcified than the periphery. Dentine.-^The cells which form a com- pact layer on the surface of the dentinal papilla, and are called odontoblasts, become calcified in the same manner as the enamel cells. The calcareous deposit takes place first at the surface nearest to the enamel and passes inwards along the elongated cell; while the outer part of the cell is thus converted into dentine, the inner end con- tinues to grow towards the papilla, and tlui? each dentinal tubule and its surrounding matrix is formed by the calci- fication of asingle cell, and not, as was formerly supposed, by the union Fig 429. — Odontoblasts situ.