it CONNECTIVE TISSUE. and many of them give off forked processes from theii- deep aspect (fig. 15). ENDOTHELIUM.—It has been said above that endothelium differs from epithelium in being derived from the mesoblast; another difference is that endothelial cells are never supported by a basement mem- brane. Endotheiium consists of flattened cell plates, held together at their edges by a cement substance which becomes stained brown when the surface is painted with a solution of nitrate of silver. The outlines of the cells thus made apparent are commonly irregular or jagged; more especially where the cells line the lymphatic vessels. Although the majority of the cells are thin and flat, there occur here and there in serous membranes groups of polyhedral or cubical thicker cells. Fig. 16.—Endothelium. Showing composed of granular protoplasm ; these •^"'"ecUs^""^^""^ germinat- are sup])Osed to be in a condition of reproductive activity, and hence are described as germinating endo- thelium. Such cells generally border the lymphatic pores or stomata in the serous membranes. Endothelial cells are found lining the ciivities of the peritoneum, pleura, pericardiiim, and a(pieous chamber of the eye ; on the surface of the spinal cord and brain ; lining the heart, blood-vessels, and lymphatic vessels ; lastly, on the free sur- face of synovial membranes. CONNECTIVE TISSUE. Connective tissue forms the means of union between tlie several tissues and organs, forms coverings for the muscles and sheaths for the vessels, and constitutes the supporting framework for the cellular and other elements which make up the individual organs. It consists of fibres and of cells, the former greatly preponderating, and being easily divisible into two sets, elastic and non-elastic. Having many and various duties to perform, connective tissue is necessarily greatly diversified in its arrangement, differing also in different regions in the proportion of ceUs to fibres, and of the elastic fibres to the non-elastic. We may, however, readily dis- tinguish three cliief forms of connective tissue, each of which requires a separate and complete description ; these are the areolar (including the adipose), the fibrous, and the elastic. Areolar Tissue.—This consists of delicate fibres and transparent lamincc crossing each other in all directions, and leaving between them iiTegular interspaces or meshes, called areoke; these are occupied by a small quantity of clear colourless fluid, sufficient only