136 THE THORAX. the costal cartilages are converted more or le.ss completely into bone, the change taking place earlier in the male than in the female. The first seven cartilages articulate with the sternum ; the three next, with the lower border of the cartilage immediately preceding ; the last two lie free between the abdominal muscles. All the car- tilages of the false ribs terminate by pointed extremities. Attachment of Muscles.—Subclavius, sterno-tliyroid, pectoralis major, internal oblique, rectus, transversalis, diaphrfxgm, triangu- laris sterni, internal intercostals. THE THORAX AS A WHOLE. The thorax is conical in shape, flattened antero-posteriorly, and wider from side to side than from before l)ackwards. It is formed posteriorly by the dorsal vertebras, and ribs, the bodies of the former projecting into the cavity, and the latter forming a iDackward con- vexity on each side, the furrow between the back of the ribs and the spinous processes of the vertebrse being occupied in the recent state by the dorsal muscles. The anterior wall, formed by the sternum and costal cartilages, inclines forwards as it descends, and at its lower end is a depression corresponding to the xiphoid cartilage. The upper edge of the sternum corresponds to the level of the lower part of the body of the second dorsal vertebra in the male, and in the female to the lower part of the body of the third. Tlie female thorax is relatively shorter and rounder than tlie male, and is also relatively wider in its ujiper part. The lower pai't of the thoracic wall encloses the upjDer part of the abdominal cavity. THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The upper extremity is formed by the cla^'icle, scapvda, humerus, radius, ulna, carpus, metacarpus and phalanges. The clavicle and scapula form the shoulder-girdle. CLAVICLE. The clavicle {clavis, a key), or collar-bone, is a long bone, shaped like the italic letter /, and extended aci'oss tlie upper part of the side of the chest from the upper piece of the sternum to the point of the shoulder, where it articulates with the scapula. The curves are so disposed that at the sternal end the convexity, and at the scapular the cbncavitv, is directed forwards. The sternal half of the bone is rounded, ancl terminates in a broad facet for articulation vntli the sternum ; this facet is continued for a short distance on to the under surface, where it articulates with the cartilage of the first rib. The