352 ANTERIOK FEMORAL REGION. obturator vessels and nerve. By its deep or posterior surface witli the obturator membrane and margin of bone which surrounds it, tlic lowei- part of the ca])sule of tlie hip-joint and quadratus femoris. Nerve-supply.—The obtuiator nerve. The QUADRATUS FEMORIS (s(iuare-shaped) arises from the ex- ternal border of tlie tubei osity of the ischium ; and is inserted into a rough line on the posterior border of the trochanter major, wliicli is thence named linea quadrati. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the gluteus maxiimis, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its anterior surface with tlic tendon of the obturator externus and trochanter minor, a synovial bursa often sepai'ating it from the latter. By its upper border M'itli the gemellus inferior ; and by the lower border with tlie adductdi- magnus. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the sacral plexus. Actions.—The gluteal muscles are abductors of the thigh, when they take their fixed point from the pelvis. Taking their fixed point from the thigh, they act as extensors of the pelvis on the femur, and thus are the chief muscles by which the erect posture is maintained : they assist also in carrying the leg forward in progres- sion. The anterior fibres of the gluteus medius and minimus assisted in rotating the limb iuAvards. The gluteus maximus, from its fibres passing backwards to the posterior aspect of the bone, rotates the limb outwards ; it is, uioreover, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh, and through the agency of the ilio-tibial band acts as an extensor of the leg on the thigh. The other muscles rotate the limb outwards, everting the knee and foot; hence they are named external rotators. The obturator externus, besides being an external rotator, is also a flexor and adductor of the thigh. Anterior Femoral Region. Tensor vaginae femoris, Vastus internus, Sartorius, Vastus externus, Rectus femoris, Crureus. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of Poupart's hga- ment, from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the spine of the pubes ; and a second, from the inner end of the preced- ing, down the inner side of the thigh, and across the inner condyle of the femur to about two inches below the head of the tibia, where it may be bounded by a transverse incision. Turn back the integu- ment from the whole of this region, and examine the superficial fascia; which is next to be removed in the same manner. After the deep fascia has been well considered, it is likewise to be removed, .by dissecting it oft' in the course of the fibres of the muscles. As it "might not be convenient to the junior student to expose so large a surface at once as ordered in this dissection, the vertical incision