678 LARYNX. fh1nm...^f 'i ^'".^'^ ^'""'^'"^ ci^ico-thyroid ligament) and thinner at eacli side (lateral crico-tl.yroid ligament). It i.s attached by it&apex to the lower border and receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and by its ex])anded margin to the upper border of the cricoid and base ol the arytenoid cartilages. Superiorly it is con- tinuous with the inferior margin of the vocal cords. The front of tne crico-tiiyroid membrane is crossed by a small artery, the inferior laryngeal, and is the spot selected for the operation of laryngotomv. Laterally it is covered in by the crico-thyroid and lateral crico- arytenoid muscles. number^^ l^g^i^^^^ts of the arytenoid cartilages are eight in Two capsular ligaments, with synovial membranes, which arti- culate the arytenoid cartilages with the cricoid, strengthened behind Fig. 394.—Vertical section of the larynx, showing its ligaments, i. Body of os hyoides. 2. Its great cornu. 3. Lesser cornu. 4. Ala of the thyroid cartilage. 5. Superior cornu. 6. In- ferior cornu. 7. Pomum Adami. 8, 8. Thyro- hyoidmembrane; the openingin the membrane immediately above the posterior figure is for the passage of the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. 9. Tbyro-hyoid ligament; the figure is placed immediately above the sesamoid cartilage, a. Epiglottis. b. Hyo-epiglottic ligament, c. 'i'hyro - epiglottic ligament, d. Arytenoid curlilagu ; inner surface, e. Outer angle of ba.so of arytenoid cartilage. /. Corni- culum laryngis. (/. Cuneiform cartilage, h. Superior tliyro-arytenoid ligament, i. Inferior thyro-arytenoid ligament, or true vocal cord ; the elliptical sp.ace between the two thyro- arytenoid lig.iments is the ventricle of the larynx. L Cricoid cartilage. I. Lateral portion of the crico-thyroid membrane, in. Central portion of the same membrane, n. Upper ring of trachea, o. Section of isthmus of thyroid body, p, p. Levator glandulae thyroideaj. by two posterior crico-arytenoid Ijands or ligaments; and the superior and inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments. The superior thyro-arytenoid ligaments are two scattered bands of fibres attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to a tubercle on, the anterior surface of each arytenoid cartilage, and contained in the folds of mucous membrane constituting the false vocal cords. The lower border of this liga- ment forms the upper boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The inferior thyro-arytenoid ligaments, or true vocal cords, are thicker than the superior, and are comi)osed of yellow elastic tissue. Each ligament is attached in front to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, and behind to the anterior angle of the base of