FEMALE BLADDEE AND UEETHKA. 785 FEMALE PELVIS. The j)eciiliarities in form of the female pelvis have already been examined with the anatomy of the bones (p. 160). Its lining boun- daries are the same as those of the male. The contents are the bladder, vagina, uterus with its appendages, and rectum. Some por- tion of the small intestine also occupies the upper part of its cavity. The bladder is in relation with the pubes in front, with the Fig. 484.—Side view of the viscera of the female pelvis. i. Symphysis pubis. 2. Abdominal pari- etes. 3. Collection of fat, foraiing the mons Veneris. 4. Urinary bladder. 5. Entrance of left ureter. 6. Urethra. 7. Meatus urina- rius. 8. Clitoris, witli its prepuce divided through • the middle, g. Left nympha. lo. Left labium majus. 11. Meatus of the vagina, narrowed by the contraction of its sphincter. 12, 22. Canal of the vagina, on which the transverse rugse are ai)parent. 13. Vesico-vaginal wall. 14. Recto- vaginal wall. 15. Perineal body. 16. Os uteri. 17. Cervix. 18. Fundus uteri. The cavity of the uterus is seen along the centre of the organ, ig. Rectum, showing the disposition of its mucous mem- brane. 20. Anus. 21. Upper part of rectum, invested by peritoneum. 23. Uteio- vesical fold of peritoneum. The recto-vaginal fold is seen between the rectum and ■ posterior wall of the vagina. 24. Reflection of peritoneum, from the apex of the bladder upon the urachus to the internal surface of the abdominal parietes. 25. Last lumbar vertebra. 26. Sacrum. 27. Coccyx. This view is diagrammatic, the vagina being shown diluted ; in the normal state the walls are in loose contact, excepting at the upper part, where the canal has the os uteri projecting into it. uterus behind, from which it is usually separated by a convolution of small intestine, and with the neck of the u.terus and vagina be- neath. The form of the female bladder corresponds with that of the pelvis, being broad from side to side, and often bulging more on one side than on the other. This is particularly evident after -pav- turition. The coats of the bladder are the same as those of the male. The urethra, about an inch and a lialf in length, is lodged in the upper and anterior wall of the vagina, in its course downwards and forwai'ds, beneath the arch of the pubes, to the meatus urinarius. Skene has discovered in each lateral urethi'al wall a mimite tul)ule about f to I of an inch in len^h, passing beneath the mucous mem- brane in the muscular wall ot the urethra ; these canals have been 3 ^