MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 276 tion of tlie .sacro-luiubalis upwards into the neck. It arises from the angle of the third, fourtli, fifth, and .sixtli ribs, and is inserk'l by slender tendons into the posterioi tul^ercles of the transverse processes uf tlie third, fourtli, lifth, and sixtli cervical vertebra). The term de- scendens, applied to this muscle, can oidy be correct when it is de- scriljed as arising in the neck and passing downwards to the ril)s. Tlie TRANSVERSALIS CERVICIS appears to be the continuation uj}- wards into the neck of tlielongissimiif? dorsi; it aiHses from tlie trans\^erse ]n'ocesses of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the posterior tubercles of the trans- verse processes of the cerA'ical verte- brae, from the second to the sixth. It receives a fasciculus from the longissimus dorsi and se\-eral small slij)s from the trachelo-iuastoid. The TRACHELO-MASTOID is like- ^\'ise a continuation upwards from the longissimus dorsi. It is a slen der and delicate muscle, arising Ivor the transverse processes of the tlu-e upper dorsal and last cervical, an from the articular processes of tli three next cervical vertebne, i origin being similar to that of tli Fii:. 197.—Fuurtli, fifth, and part of the sixth hiyer of the muscles of the back. i. Origin of the erector spiuEB. 2. Sacro-lumbalis. 3. Lon- gissimus doi-si. 4. Spinalis dorsi. 5. Cervicalisascendens. 6. Trausver- salis cevvicis. 7. Trachelo-niastoid. 8. Complexus. 9. Transversalis cer- vicis, sliowing its origin. 10. Semi- spinalis dorsi. 11. Semi-spinalis colli. 12. Rectus jjosticus minor. 13. Rectus posticus niajoi'. 14. Obli- quus superior. 15. Obliquus inferior. 16. Multifidus spinas. 17, 17. Leva- tores costarum. 18. Inter-transver- sales. 19. Quadratus lumboruni. complexus, Avitli Avhich and the on gin of the transversalis cer^'icis i is closely connected. It receives fasciculus from the longissimus dorsi and is imerted into the i)o.sterio border and summit of the niastoi ])rocess. Nerve-supply.—Thisand thepre muscles are supplied by th external branches of the posterio divisions of the dor.sal and cervic nerves. The COMPLEXUS is a large lauscl forming with the splenius the grea bulk of the back of the neck. I crosses the direction of the splenius, ceding arising from the transverse processes of the three upper dorsal and last cervical, and from the articular processes of the fourth, fiftUi