6i6 ORGANS OF SENSE. cleansing and protective apparatus against the intrusion of foreign bodies. The fossae in which the eyes are situated have their axe^ directed outwards, but the eyes themselves are directed much uiowt forwards, varying, however, in their direction with the distance oi- nearness of the object looked at, their axes being parallel in looking at distant objects, but converging slightly when near objects are viewed. The optic nerves follow the direction of the orbits, and therefore enter the eyeballs on their nasal side. We shall in the first place give a short account of those structures which, although not essential to vision, are provided for the protec- tion of the anterior part of the eye. These appendages of the eye {tutamina oculi) are—the eyebrows, eyelids, eyelashes, conjunctiva, caruncula lachrymalis, and lachrymal apparatus. APPENDAGES OF THE EYE. The eyebrows (supercilia) are two prominent arches of integu- ment which overlie the superciliary ridges of the frontal bone. Fig. 353.—Appendagesof tbe eye. i. Supe- rior tarsal plate. 2. Lower border of the plate on which are seen the open- ings of the Meibomian glands. 3. In- ferior tarsal plate ; along the upper border of this plate the openings of the Meibomian glands are likewise seen. 4. Laclirymal gland, its superior or or- bital portion. 5. Inferior or palpebral portion. 6. Lachrymal ducts. 7. Plica semilunaris. 8. Caruncula lachrymalis. 9. Puncta lachrymalia. 10. Superior lachrymal canaliculus. 11. Inferior lach- rymal canaliculus. 12. Lachrymal sac. 14. Dilatation of the nasal duct, where it opens into the inferior meatus of the nose. 15. Nasal duct. They are covered with short, stiff hairs directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and are connected beneath with the orbicularis pal- pebrarum, occipito-frontalis, and corrugator supercilii muscles, bv which they are moved. They serve to shade the eyes from too vivid licrht to protect them from the entrance of dust from above, and to carry the moisture from the forehead on to the temple and lateral parts of the face, and so prevent its entering the eyes. The eyelids {pcdfehrce) are two movable folds, which serve by their closure to protect the anterior part of the eye from injury, or to exclude the light, as during sleep. When open they have an elliptical fissure between them {rima palpebrarum), and it is upon the size of this that the ai^^arent size of the eye depends. The angles of junction of the two lids are called canthi. The outer canthus i acute, so that but a small space is lett between the lidsj the inner canthus is prolonged for a short distance towards the nose and a S^^^^^^^^^^ sjace called lacus lachrymalis is left between