VESSELS OF THE KIDNEYS. 763 these arches are given off interlobular arteries, placed between the medullary rays, and giving off afferent vessels on each side to the Malpighian bodies. In the Malpighian body the afferent artery divides into from five to eight branches, and each of tliese branches into a l)undle of capillaries ; they form a spherical vascular tuft, the glomerulus, and are againgatlierecl up into a single branch, the efferent vessel. T]je efferent vessel is smaller than the afferent; it tpiits the Fig. 469.—Plan of the renal circulation, o. Interlobular branch of tlie renal artery giving off several afferent ves- sels. I. An afferent twig to the capil- lary tntt contained in the Malpi- ghian body, 1)1; from the Malpighian body the uriniferous tube is seen taking its tortuous course to t. 2, 2. Efferent vessels; that which proceeds from the Malpighian Ijody is smaller than the corresponding afferent branch. ]:>, ,p. The capillary plexus, ramilylng on the uriniferous tube. This plexus receives its blood from the efferent vessels, 2, 2 ; and ti-ansmits it to the branch of the renal vein, r. Malpighian body by the side of the latter and divides into capillary vessels, which form a rich plexus around the uriniferous tubules of the labyrinth, and eventually terminate in the renal veins. Those efferent vessels which are nearest to the base of the pyramids take a straight course(fti'imoZns rerffe)between the straight tubules, and giving off' bitt few branches in their course, also pass into a capillary plexus which surrounds the tubules and terminates in the venulce rectce. The renal artery also gives off branches to the capsule of the kidney which anastomose freely with branches of the lumbar arteries. The veins of the kidney commence at the surface by minute converging venules, the stellated vessels, in the corti- cal substance where they form the interlobular veins, and in the pyranuds of Mal]3ighi, where they constitute the venulae rectae; proceeding fi'om these three sources, they unite to form the l)ranches of Ihe renal vein, whicli termi- nates in the vena cava by a single large trunk at each side ; Fig. 470.—Transverse section through a Mal- pighian pyi-amid. o, a. Collecting tubule witli columnar epithelium. 6, b. Descend- ing limb of looped tubule of Honle, lined by flat cells, c, c. Ascending limb with thick granular cells, d, d. Transverse sec- tion of vessels, e, e. Intertubular stroma. tlie left renal vein receiving the left spermatic vein. The renal veins are less capacious than the renal arteries, they have no