38o AORTA. Branches.—The branches of the aorta, arranged in a tabular form are as foliowb :— ' Arch < ascending portion, Coronary, right and left. ( transverse ( Innominate artery, I S-^H carotid, portion, \ Left carotid, ^ ^'^^^^ subclavian. Thoracic aorta Abdominal aorta ( Left subclavian. Pericardiac, Bronchial, CEsophageal, Intercostal. /'Phrenic, {Gastric, Hepatic, Splenic. Supra-renal, Renal, Superior mesenteric, SjDermatic, Inferior mesenteric, Lumbar, Sacra-media, , Common iliacs. Varieties of the Aorta.—The aorta seldom deviates from tin; course and relations above described. In some few cases there is persistence of the double arch which exists in the early stages of the development of the vascular system, and in rare instances the aortic arch turns to the right side instead of the left, this being frequently accompanied by complete transj^osition both of the thoracic and abdominal viscera. Varieties in the primary branches of the arcli are by no means uncommon. That which is by far the most frequent is the origin of the left vertebral from the arch ; next in frequency we have the origin of both carotids and the right subclavian in common from the innominate, so that the primary branches of tlie transverse arch are reduced to two. Occasionally there is absenn' of the innominate, all four branches arising directly from the arcli : in such cases the order in which the branches are generally giveii off is, right common carotid, left carotid, left subclavian, right sub- clavian, the last artery passing behind the trachea and cesophagiis to reach its proper position behind the right sterno-claWcular joint. The CORONARY ARTERIES arise from the two anterior of tlie three aortic sinuses at tlie commencement of the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta, immediately above the free margin of tlu' semilunar valves. The left coronary (usually the larger of the two) passes forwards, lietween the pulmonary artery and left auricular appendix, and divides into two branches ; one of wliicli (posterior) winds around the base of the left ventricle in the auriculo-ventricular grooA'e, and reaches nearly as far as the corresponding branch of the right coronary ; the other (anterior) passes along the groove of union of the two ventricles, on the anterior aspect of the heart, to its ai)e.\. giving off branches in its course to the ventricular walls. The left