PULMONARY ARTERY. 449 PULMONARY ARTERY. The pulmonary artery lias no connection with the general arterial distribution, but forms part of the lesser or pulmonary circulation. It is called an artery because it is engaged in conveying blood from the heart, but it must not be forgotten that it carries impure or venous blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It arises from the left side of the base of the right ventricle in front of the origin of the aorta, and ascends obliquely for the space of two inches to the under surface of the arch of the aorta, where it divides into the right and left pulmonary artery. In its course upwards and backwards it inclines to the left side, crossing the commencement of the aorta, and is connected by the root of its left branch to the under surface of the arch by a thick and impervious cord, the remains of the ductus arteriosus of the foetus. Relations.—It is enclosed for nearly the whole of its extent by the pericardium, and receives the attachment of the fibrovis portion of that membrane by its upper portion. Behind, it rests against the ascending portion of the arch of the aorta and left auricle ; on either side is the appendix of the corresponding auricle, and a coronary artery; and above, the superficial cardiac plexus, and the cord of > the ductus arteriosus. The right pulmonary artery, longer and somewhat larger than the left, passes transversely outwards behind the ascending aorta and superior vena cava to the root of the right lung, where it divides into two branches, the lower supplying the lower lobe, and the upper the other two lobes. In its course it lies parallel with and in front of the right bronchus. The left pulmonary artery, shorter and smaller than the right, crosses the descending aorta and left bronchus to the root of the left lung, where it divides into two branches for the two lobes. VEINS. The veins are the vessels which carry the blood back from the capillaries to the heart. They are larger, more numerous, and anastomose more freely than the arteries, and form two great systems of vessels, the superficial and the deep, the former lying between the superficial and deep layers of the superficial fascia, and the latter accompanying the arteries in their distribution ; the two systems have very numerous communications The veins will be described according to the primary division of the body, taking first, those of the head and neck ; next,, those of the upper extremity ; tlien, those of the lower extremity ; and lastlv, the veins of the trunk, 2 F