571 BKACHIAL PLEXUS. The posterior thoracic, or external respiratory of Bell, is formed by the junction of two offsets, one from the fifth, the other from the sixth cervical nerve ; it crosses behind the brachial plexus to reach the side of the chest, and descends on the serratus magnus to the lower part of that muscle, to which it is distributed. The superior muscular nerves are small branches to the longus colli and scaleni, and branches to the rhomboidei and subclavius. The rhomboid branch proceeds from the fifth cervical nerve, and passing backwards through the fibres of the scalenus medius, and beneath the levator anguli scapulae, is distributed to the under surface of the rhomboid muscles, in its course it sometimes gives a branch to the levator anguli scapulae. The subclavian branch, proceeding from the cord formed by the fifth and sixth nerve, descends in front of the subclavian artery, to the subclaviiTs muscle. This nerve usually communicates with the phrenic at its entrance into the chest. The suprascapular nerve arises from the ti-unk formed by the union of fifth and sixth cervical nerves and proceeds obliquely out- wards, along with the artery of the same name, to the suj)rascapular notch ; it passes through the notch, crosses the supra-spinous fossa beneath the supra-spinatus muscle, and running in front of the con- cave margin of the spine of the scapula enters the infra-spinous fossa, to be distributed to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus muscles, and sends two or three filaments to the shoulder-joint. The subscapular nerves are three in number; one arises from the brachial plexus above the clavicle, the others from the posterior cord of the plexus within the axilla. The first or smallest supplies the upper part of the subscapularis muscle ; the second and largest (long subscapidar) follows the course of the subscapular artery, and is distriljuted to the latissimus dorsi; the third supplies the lower part of the subscapularis muscle and teres major. BRACHIAL NERVES.—The brachial branches of the plexus are arranged in the following order : musculo-cutaneous, and one head of the median to the outer side of the artery ; the other head of the median, internal cutaneous, lesser internal cutaneous, and ulnar, to its inner side ; the circumflex and musculo-spiral behind. Tlie MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE (external cutaneous, per- forans Gasserii) arises from the brachial plexus in common with the external head of the median; pierces the coraco-brachialis muscle, and passes between the biceps and brachialis anticus to the outer side of the bend of the elbow, where it perforates the deep fascia, and divides into an anterior and posterior branch. These branches pass behind the median cephalic vein ; the anterior, the larger of the two, runs along the radial border of the forearm and communicates Avith the radial nerve on the l)ack of the hand ; the posterior and smaller is distributed to the back of the forearm, communicating with the internal cutaneous, and distributes filaments to the syno- vial membranes of the wrist-joint. The musculo-cutaneous nerve supplies the coraco-brachialis, biceps,