ORBICULAltIS ORIS. 240 of the mouth, orbicularis oris, and levator labii superioris alajque nasi; by its deep surface with the sui)erior maxillary bone. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. Actions.—The pyramidalis nasi, as a point of attachment of thc occipito-frontalis, assists that muscle in its action : it also draw.< down the inner angle of the eyebrow and pi'oduces short horizontal wrinkles across the root of the nose. By its insertion it fixes the aponeurosis of the compressores nasi, and tends to elevate the nose. The compressores nasi appear to act in expanding rather than im- pressing the nares. The dilatator naris is a dilator of the nostril, and the depressor aloe nasi draws downwards both the ala and columna of the nose, the depression of the latter being a.ssisted by the naso-labialis. 6. Superior Labial Group.— Orbicularis oris, Levator anguli oris. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, Zygomaticus major. Levator labii superioris proprius, Zygomaticus minor. Dissection.—The skin has been already removed in order \u display the preceding grouj), but it is necessary now to put a hook in the angle of the mouth and carry it downwards, so as to keep the muscles of the upper lip on the stretch during the removal of the muscular fascia. The ORBICULARIS ORIS is a sphincter muscle, completely sur- rounding the mouth, and possessing consequently neither origin nor insertion. The upper part is attached by means of a small muscular fasciculus (riaso-labialis) to the columna of the nose. It is divisible into two portions, internal or marginal, in immediate contact with the lips, and thick ; and external, broad and thin; the separation between the two being indicated by the coronary arteries. The internal fibres are continued uninterruptedly from one lip to the other round the angle of the mouth, the external fibres decussate with those of the buccinator, the upper fibres of the orbicularis being continued into the lower ones of the lattei' muscle, and vice versa. Accessory filji'es spring from the incisive fossa of the ujiper and lower jaw, and pass tn the deej) aspect of the muscle. In addition to the buccinator its fibres intermingle with those of the levator lal)ii superioris proprius, levator labii superioris alseque na^i, depressor labii superioris alseque nasi, levator anguli oris, zygomaticu.'^ major, risorius Santorini, depressor anguli oris, depressor labii in- ferioris, and levator labii inferioris. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument of the lips, with which it is closely connected. By its deep surface with the nnicous membrane of the mouth, the labial glands and coronary arteries being interposed. By its circumference with the numerous muscles which move the lips, and by ibhe inner border with the mucous membrane of the margin of the mouth. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital and buccal branches of the facial.