41S ULNAR ARTERY. In the Hand. Annular ligament, Origin of muscles of little finger, Tendons'of the flexor sublimis digitorum. Divisions of the median and ulnar nerves. The branches of the idnar artery may be arranged, like those of the radial, into three groups :— Forearm., rAnterior ulnar recurrent, Posterior ulnar recurrent, ( Anterior interosseous, Interosseous, j pog^gj^ior interosseous, ^Muscular. r Anterior carpal, Wrist, \ Posterior carpal, i (Communicating, ^Metacarpal. ' ( Digital. The anterior ulnar recurrent, arising immediately below the elbow, ascends in front of the joint between the pronator radii teres and brachialis anticus; it distributes branches to the adjacent muscles, and inosculates with the anastomotica magna and infe- rior profunda. The two recurrent arteries frequently arise by a common trunk. The posterior ulnar recurrent, larger than the preceding, arises immediately below the elbow -joint, and passes backwards, beneath the origin of the superficial layer of muscles ; it then ascends be- tween the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, lying beneath the ulnar nerve, and inosculates with the inferior profunda, anastomotica magna, and interosseous recurrent. The INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY is a short trunk which arises from the ulnar, opposite the bicipital tuberosity of the radius, and passes backwards to the interosseous membrane, where it divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous artery. The anterior interosseous passes down the forearm upon the interosseous membrane, in company with the anterior interosseous nerve, between the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis, and behind the pronator quadratus ; it then passes through an opening in the interosseous membrane to the back of the wrist, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. The anterior interosseous artery gives off several mus- cular branches ; nutrient branches to the radius and ulna; a covi- panio7i branch to the median nerve (arteria comes nervi mediani) ; and at the upper border of the pronator quadratus, a small branch, which descends behind that muscle to inosculate with the anterior carpal arteries. The median artery is sometimes of large size, and occasionally assists in forming the superficial palmar arch. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through an opening between the upper part of the interosseous membrane and