GLOSSO-PHAKYNGEAL NEEVE. 553 ■>i Trachea. 25. Thyroid axis. 26. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. 27. Subclavian artery. 28. Innominate artery. 29. (Esophagus. 30. Vena cava superior (cut). 31. Gangliated cord of sympathetic. 32. Posterior pulmonary plexus. 33. Phrenic, nerve (cut). 35. (Esophageal plexus. 37. Vena azygos major. 39. Thoracic duct. 41. Thoracic aorta.' 43. Great splanchnic nerve. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve, as its name implies, is the nerve of sensation of the mncous membrane of the tongiie and pharynx, but it also gives branches to some of the muscles of these organs. It arises by five or six filaments from the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, and escapes from the skull at the innermost extremity of the jugular foramen through a distinct opening in the dura mater, lying anteriorly to the sheath of the pnenmogastric and spinal accessory nerves, and internally to the jugular vein. It then passes forward between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and crosses the artery to reach the posterior border of the stylo- pharyngeus. Following the posterior border of this muscle for a short distance, it next passes across it and the middle constrictor and behind the hyo-glossus muscle, to be distributed to the mucous mem- brane of the tongue, pharynx, and tonsil. Deep Origin.—Beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle, above the nucleus of the vagus and below that of the auditory nerve. Wliile in the jugular fossa, it presents two gangliform swellings : one superior, the jugular ganglion, of small size, and involving only the posterior fibres of the nerve; the other inferior, nearly half an inch below the preceding, of larger size, and occupying the whole diameter of the nerve, the petrous ganglion or ganglion of Andersch. The branches of the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve are branches of communication and branches of distribution. The branches of communication proceed chiefly from the gan- glion of Anderscli ; they are—one to join the auricular branch of the pnenmogastric ; one to the ganglion of the root of the pnenmo- gastric ; one to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic; and one, which arises below the ganglion and pierces the posterior belly of the digastricus muscle, to join the facial nerve. The branches of distribution are— The tympanic branch (Jacobson's nerve) proceeds from the ganglion of Andersch, or hom the trunk of the nerve immediately above the ganglion ; it enters a small bony canal between the jugular fossa and carotid foramen (p. 99), and divides into six branches, which are distributed on the inner wall of the tympanmn, and establish a plexiform communication (tympanic plexus) with the sympathetic and fifth pair of nerves. The branches of distribu- tion supply the fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis, and Eustachian NINTH NERVE. Tympanic, Carotid, Muscular, Pharyngeal, Tonsillitic, Lingual.