568 CERVICAL NERVES. The posterior cord of the third cervical nerve is .smaller tlian the second, but larger than the fourtli; its internal branch gives off a cutaneous branch to the back of the cranium. The ])osterior cords of the remaining cervical nerves go on pro- gressively deci-easing in size to the seventh. The internal branches of the second, third, fourth, and fifth nerves lie on the semispinalis colli muscle, and are closely connected with a fascia which separates that muscle from the complexus. The second and third, with a branch from the first, constitute the pos- terior cervical plexus ; and all the branches in their course to the surface pierce the complexus and trapezius, and some the sjjlenius. The internal branches of the sixth, seventh, and eighth nei ve> pass beneath the semispinalis colli, which they supply, as they also do the interspinals, multifidus spina?, and complexus ; finally they send twigs through the latter muscle to supply the skin over tlic spinous processes of the lower cervical vertebra?. The occipitalis major nerve, the internal branch of theposterioi cord of the second cervical nerve, ascends obliquely inwards be- tween the obliquus inferioi and complexus, pierces the complexus and trapezius after jiassing for a short distance between them, and ascends the posterior aspect of the head in company with the occi- pital artery. Soon after its escape from the trapezius, it receives a branch from the third cervical, and divides into numerous branches, which are distributed to the occipitalis muscle and to the integu- ment as far as the summit of the head. It communicates with the occipitalis minor nerve, and sends an auricular branch to the back of the ear. BRACHIAL PLEXUS. The brachial or axillary plexus of nerves is formed by communi- cations between the anterior divisions of the four lower cerAdcal nerves and first dorsal. These nerves are alike in size, and their mode of disposition in the formation of the jjlexus is as follows : the fifth and sixth unite to form a common trunk, the eighth and first dorsal unite in like manner, the seventh runs alone ; each of these three trunks then divides into an anterior and posterior brancli. The anterior branch of the trunk derived from the fifth and sixth receives the anterior branch of the seventh, and these together form the outer cord. The anterior branch of the trunk formed by the eighth and first dorsal constitutes the inner cord. The three pos- terior branches unite to form the posterior cord. The plexus is broad in the neck, narrows as it descends into the axilla, and again enlarges at its lower part, where it divides into its terminal branches. The brachial plexus communicates with the cervical plexus hj- means of a branch from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and receives branches from the two inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. The plexus is in relation in the neck with the scaleni muscles;