724 STOMACH. liver, often reaching tu tlie gall-ljladcler. It would l,e ])ieirefl wlien the stomach is empty, by a needle passing tlirougli tlie alj(h>minal wall hye cm. below the junction of the .seventh riglit costal cartilage with ti^ie stei-num (A. M'Alister). Near the le.sser end is a dila^- tion, the antrum of the fijlorus. The two curvatures give attachment to the peritoneum ; the upi)er curve to the lesser omentum, the lower to the great omentum. The anterior surface looks upward and for- ward, and is in relation with the diapliragm (wliich separates it from the viscera of the thorax and six lower ribs), Avith the left lobe of tlie liver, and in the epigastric region with the alxlominal parietes. The posterior surface looks downwards and backwards, and is in re- lation with the diaphragm, ]mncreas, third portion of the duodenuiu, transverse meso-colon, left kidney, and left supra-renal body; this Fjg. 433.—Vertical and longitudinal section of the stomach and duo- denum, made so as to include the two ori- fices of the stomach. I. (Esophagus; on it.s internal surface the plicated arrangement of the mucous mem- brane is shown. 2. Cardiac orifice of the stomach, around whicli the serrated border of the epithelium is seen. 3. Great end of the stomach. 4. Lessor or pyloric end. 5. Lesser curve. 6. Greater curve. 7. An- trum of the pylorus. 8. Rugaj formed by the mucous membrane, o. Pylorus. 10. Ascend- ing portion of the duo- denum. II. Descend- ing portion. 12. Pancreatic duct and common bile duct close to their termination. 13. Papilla upon wliich the ducts open. 14. Transverse portion of duodenum. 15. Commencement of jejunum. In the interior of the duodenum and jejunum, the valvulaj conuiventes are seen. surface forms the anterior boundary of that cul-de-sac of the peri- toneum which is situated behind the lesser omentum and extends into the great omentum. In a state of distension, as after a meal, the anterior surface becomes su]jerior, and tlie greater cur\-ature is directed forwards against the abdominal parietes. The stomach is a little lai'ger in the male than in the female, and in the former measures about twelve inches in length, and four or five inches in width at its broadest part. When moderately full it is capable of holding from five to ten pints of fluid. Connections.—By its iqoper border it is connected with the liver by the lesser omentum, and with the diaphragm by the gastro-phrenic ligament; by its loioer border it is connected with the transverse colon, by the great omentum. The great end is in close connection