138 SCAPULA. The superior border is the shortest of the tliree ; it is thin and concave, tenuinated at one extremity by the superior angle, and at the other by the coracoid process. At the base of tlfe coracoid process IS tlie ^npra-scapular or coraco-scaimlar notdi (converted into a foramen by a ligament), for the transmission of the supra- sca]mlar nei've. ' The inferior or axillary border is thick, and marked hy several grooves and depressions ; it terminates siiperiorlv at the glenoid cavity and interiorly at the inferior angle. Immediately below the glenoid cavity is a rough ridge, which gives origin to the long head ot the triceps muscle. In the middle of this border is a depression Fi«.'i27.—Anterior surface or venter of the scapula. I, I, I. Oblique ridges crossing the subscapular foss:i. 2, 2. Upper part of the surface occupied by the serratus maguus muscle. 3. Superior border. 4. Superior angle. 5. Supra-scapular notch. 6. Coracoid process. 7. Acromion pro- ces.s. 8. Spine of the scapula; the figure 5, while indicating the supra-scapular notcli, . is placed on the spine, c,. Articular .surface of the acromio-clavicular joint. 10. Glenoid cavity. 11. Head of tlie scapula. 12. Its neck. 13, 13. Axillary border ; the upper 13 is placed against the ridge for the triceps. 14. Inferior angle. 15, 15. Posterior border. 16. Pro- minence corresponding with the origin of the spine of the scapula. for the teres minor, and beneath this a deeper groove for the teres major ; near the inferior angle is a projecting lip, which increases the surface of origin of the latter muscle. The posterior border or base, the longest of the three, is turned towards the vertebral column. It is intermediate in thickness between the superior and inferior, and convex. Attached to it are three muscles, the levator anguli scapulae extending from the ujiper edge of the triangular area at the root of the spine to the suijerior angle, the rliomboideus minor corresponding in its attachment to the triangular area, and the rliomboideus major attached to the rest of the border. The anterior angle is the thickest part of the bone, and forms the head of the scapula ; it is immediately surrounded by a con- stricted portion, the ncclc. The head presents a .shallow pyriform articular surface, the glenoid cavity, luu-ing the pointed extremity upwards ; and at its apex is a rough depression, which gives attach-