505 STRUCTURE OF THE CONVOLUTIONS. The quadrate lobe or precuneus (q), the inner portion of the pai-ietal lobe, is bounded in front by the calloso-marginal fissure, and behind by the parieto-occipital fissure ; below it is continuous with the gyrus fornicatus, and above -\\ith the superior parietal con- volution. The cuneus lobe (o) is triangular in shape, and is placed between the parieto-occipital and the calcarine fissure (c); the latter separates it from the internal convolutions of the temporal lobe (t). The calcarine fissure (c) of Huxley runs below the cuneus lobe to the extremity of the gyrus fornicatus, being joined niidway by the parieto-occipital fissure. It is an important fissure, since it corresj)onds to the projection called the hippocampus minor in the posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The internal temporal convolutions form the lower part of the inner wall of the hemisphere, and are continuous with those of the temporal lobe externally. The most important is the uncinate (fyrns (3), which is immediately below the calcarine fissure and runs horizontally forward, becoming united with the gyrus fornicatus and passing in front of the fascia dentata. It then makes a sudden bencl backward for half an inch, this hook-like process from which it derives its name becoming united with the tsenia hippo- campi. The collateral fissure (Co) separates this last convolution from the inferior temporal convolutions, which are A'ery irregular. It causes the prominence in the descending cornu of the lateral ven- tricle known as the eminentia collateralis. The dentate fissure (10) is that immediately above the unci- nate gyrus which lodges the fascia dentata, and corresi^onds to the hippocampus major in the descending cornu of the lateral ven- tricle. Immediately above this is a small dentate convolution (4), united with the tcenia hippocauipi, and continuous below with the uncinate gyrus. Structure of the Convolutions. The convolutions are composed internally of white nerve matter continuous witli that which forms the great bulk of the interior of the brain; externally they are covered by several superimposed layers of grey uiatter, each layer having certain characteristics which serve to distinguish it from its fellows. The layers vary in their numl)er and dejjth in diflerent brains and in different parts of the same brain, but in the parietal lobe it is easy with the microscope to distinguish that they are five in number. The first or external layer forms about one-tenth of the thick- nes.s of the cortex. It is pale in colour, and consists chiefiy of neuroglia, in wliich a few scattered stellate nerve-cells are found, and near the surface numerous fine varicose medullated nerve- fibres, crossing each other in all directions. The second layer, of about the same width, is made up of closely set small pyramidal nerve-cells Avith liranching processes, the apex