266 PRiEVERTEBRAL MUSCLES, upper opening of the larynx, tliis being facilitated by tlie tonLnie being earned backwards and the glosso-epiglottic folds rendered fax ilie lood, l)eing thus prevented from passing into the nose oi- larynx- is tlirown into the grasp of the constrictors of the pharynx, whiclJ successively contract upon it from above downwai'ds, so as to pass it into tlie up})er part of the o^sopliagus. Seventh Group. Praevertebral Muscles. Rectus anticus major. Scalenus medius, -Rectus anticus minor, Scalenus posticus, Scalenus anticus, Longus colli. Dissection.—These muscles have already l)een exposed l)y the removal of the jjharynx from the anterior"'aspect of the verteljral column ; all that is further needed is the removal of the fascia by which they are invested. The RECTUS ANTICUS MAJOR, broad and thick above, narrow and pointed below, arises from the an- terior tubercles of the transverse jiro- cesses of the tliird, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical ver- tebrae ; and is in- serted into the basi- lar process of the occipital l)one. Relations. — By its anterior surface with the pharynx, internal cai'otid ai'- tery, internal jugular vein, superior cer\'ical ganglion and trunk of the sympathetic nerve, pneumogastric, and s[)inal accessory nerve. By its jjosterior surface with the rectus anticus minor, and superior cervical vertebras; internally with the longus colli, and externally with the scaleni. Nerve-supply.—Anterior division of the first cervical nerve. The RECTUS ANTICUS MINOR arises from the anterior border of the lateral mass of the atlas, and is inserted into the basilar proces.^ of the occipital bone ; its fibres being directed obliquely upwai-ds and inwards. FiQ. 194.—Praever- tebral group of muscles of the neck. I. Rectus anticus major. 2. Scalenus anti- cus. 3. Lower oblique part of the longus colli of the right side; it is concealed superiorly by the rectus anticus major. 4. Rec- tus anticus mi- nor. 5. Upper oblique portion of the longus colli. 6. Its ver- tical portion ; the figure rests on the seventh cervical verte- bra. 7. Scalenus medius; behind vs^hich is seen the scalenus pos- ticus. 8. Rectus lateralis, left side. 9. One of the intertrans- ver.=ales.