BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL ILIAC. 435 Tlie branches of tlic epigastric artery are— A cremasteric branch wliich accompanies the sjjei'niatic cord, and after supplying the cremaster muscle inosculates with the spermatic artery. A pubic branch Mdiich is distributed behind the pubes, and sends a small branch of communication downwards to the obturator artery. Muscular branches which pass outwards between the abdominal nuiscles, and inosculate with the circumflex iliac, lumbar, and in- ferior intercostal arteries. Superficial branches which pierce the rectus muscle, and are dis- tribiited to the integument of the abdomen. The epigastric artery forms a prominence of the peritoneum, wliich divides the ingiiinal fossa into an internal and external j)ortion ; it is from the former that direct ingviinal hernia issues, and from the latter oblique inguinal hernia. Triangle of Hesselbach.—This is a small triangular space, bounded externally by the deep epigastric artery, internally by the outer edge of the rectus abdominis, and below by Poupart's ligament and the crest of the pubes. In tlais space is situated the external abdominal ring, through which both direct and oblique inguinal hernia pass. The DEEP CIRCUMFLEX ILIAC arises from the other side of the external iliac, a little below the epigastric artery. It ascends obliquely along Poupart's ligament, contained in a fibrous canal formed at the junction of the trans^'ersalis and iliac fascia^,, and curving around the crest of the ilium, inosculates with the'ilio- lumbar and inferior lumbar arteries. It gives ofl:" muscular branches to the ilio-psoas, and upper end of the sartorius and tensor vagina femoris. Opposite the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, it gives off a large ascending branch, which passes upwards l)etween the internal oblique and transversalis, and divides into numerous branches which supply the abdominal muscles, and inosculate with the inferior intercostal and the lumliar arteries. FEMORAL ARTERY. Emerging horn l^eneath Poupart's ligament, the external iliac artery enters the thigh and becomes the femoral. The femoral arterv passes down the mnei- side of the thigh, from Poupart's ligament, at a point midway between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the sym]ihysis pubis, to tlie opening in the adductor magiiiis, at tlie junction of the middle with the inferior third of the thigh, where it becomes the popliteal artery. The femoral artery and vein are enclosed in a strong sheath, femoral sheath, which is formed for the greater iiart of Hs extent by hl)rous and areolar tissue, and by a process of fascia sent inwards rom the fascui lata. Near Poupart's ligament this slieath is much Jarger than tlie vessels it contains, and is continuous with the trans-