201 SHOULDEK-JOINT. of lifting the arm, and not (as was formerly supposed) when the arm has i cached the level of the shoulder. 4. SHOULDER-JOINT.—The scapulo-humeral articulation is an enarthrosis, or ball-and-socket joint; its ligaments are :— Capsular, Coraco-humeral, Glenoid, Gleno-humeral. The capsular ligament encloses the articulating head of the scapula and head of the humerus, and is attached above to the neck of the scapula externally to the glenoid ligament, and to the root of the coracoid process ; on the humerus it is attached to the upper half of the anatomical neck, but below it passes farther from the articular surface, some of its deeper fibres being, however, reflected upwards to terminate at the articular margin, much in the same way as fibres are reflected on the neck of the femur in the hip. It is thick above, where resistance is most required, and strengthened by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles : below it is thin and loose. The tendons of all the muscles in contact with the capsule except the subscapu- laris can be readily separated from it by careful dissection, but the latter either has beneath it a bursa which communicates with the cavity of the joint, or is itself united with the capsule and lined by the synovial membrane of the articulation. The coraco-humeral ligament is a broad band which descends obliquely outwards from the border of the coracoid process to the greater tuberosity of the hume- rus, and serves to strengthen the superior and anterior part of the capsular ligament; it assists the latter in bridging over the bicipital groove. The gleno-humeral ligament (ligament of Flood) is an acces- sory slip of fibres which projects into the joint along the inner edge of the biceps tendon, and is inserted into the upper part of the bicipital groove. It is supposed to be the homologue of the ligamentum teres in the hip-joint. The glenoid ligament is the prismoid band of fibro-cartilage, which is attached around the margin of the glenoid surface for the purpose of protecting its edge and deepening its cavity. It divides superiorly into two slips which are continuous with the long tendon of the biceps ; Fig. 165.—Section through the shoulder- joint. I. The cut end of the clavicle. 2. Acromial end of the clavicle. 3. Arti- cular surface of the glenoid cavity covered with cartilage. 4. Cross section of the glenoid ligament. 5. Lov?er part of cap- sule and synovial sac. 6. Synovial mem- brane prolonged on biceps tendon. 7. Tendon of biceps muscle.