DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY, 444 proprius liallucis and tibialis anticus, inosculates with l)i-anclies of tlie posterior tibial and internal plantar arteries. They supply Ijranclif,- to the ankle-joint. The DORSALIS PEDIS ARTERY is continued forward along tlie tibial side of the dorsum of tlie foot, from the ankle to the base of the metatarsal l)one of the great toe, where it divides into two l)ranches, one of which dips lietween the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle into the sole of the foot, and becomes continuous with the deep plantar arch ; the other, called dorsalis hallucis, runs forward in the first interosseous sjmce. Bielations.—It runs along the outer border of the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis ; at its fibular side is the innermost tendon of the extensor longus digitorum, and near its termination it is crossed by the inner tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum. It is accompanied by vense comites, and has the continuation of the anterior tibial nerve to its outer side. Plan of the Relations of the Dorsalis Pedis Artery. In Front. Integument, Deep fascia, Inuer tendon of extensor brevis digitorum. Inner Side. Tendon of extensor prius haUucis. )iro- Outer Side. Tendon of extensor lon- gus digitorum, Border of extensor brevis digitorum, Anterior tibial nerve. Behind. Bones and ligaments of the tarsus. Branches.—The branches of this artery are the— Tarsal, Dorsalis hallucis, Metatarsal, Magna hallucis. The tarsal branch arches transversely across the tarsus, beneath the extensor brevis digitorum muscle, and supplies the articulations of the tarsal bones and outer side of the foot; it anastomoses with the external malleolar, peroneal arteries, and external plantar. The metatarsal forms an arch across the base of the metatarsal bones, and supplies the outer side of the foot, anastomosing with the tarsal and external plantar artery. From its convex side the meta- tarsal gives off three branches, dorsal interosseous, which pass forward upon the dorsal interosseous muscles, and divide into branches (dorsal collateral) for the supply of the sides of the toes between which they are placed. At their commencement these interosseous branches receive the posterior perforating arteries from the plantar