URINARY BLADDER. 765 internal or mucous. The fibrous coat consists of condensed areolar tissue, intermingled with fine elastic fibres. The muscular coat is made up of muscular fibres of the smooth kind, disposed in three layers, external and internal longitudinal, and a circular layer between. The muscular coat is thick in the ureter and j)elvis renalis, thin on the calices, and ceases altogether at the attachment of the latter to the papilljB. The mucous coat is thin, vascular, and without villi; on the paj^illfe it is connected with the substance of the pyramids, and is continuous with the uriniferous tubules, while inferiorly it becomes blended with the mucous membrane of the bladder. The epithelium of the mucons coat is thick, and com- posed of several layers of nucleated cells, which are small and round next the membrane ; of larger size and cylindrical or jjear-shaped in the middle; and large and cubical at the surface, sometimes measuring of an inch in breadth, and not unfrequently contain- ing two nuclei. Many of the superficial cubical cells are excavated on their under surface into little depressions, into which the heads of the pear-shaped cells of the middle layer fit. ^ PELVIS. The cavity of the pelvis is that portion of the great abdominal cavity which is included within the bones of the pelvis, below the level of the pectineal line and promontory of the sacrum. It is boimded by the cavity of the abdomen above, and by the perineum below ; its internal jiarietes are formed in front, below, and at the sides, by the peritoneum, pelvic fascia, levatores ani, and obturator internus muscles ; and behind, by the coccygei muscles, sacro-ischiatic ligaments, pyriformes muscles, sacral plexus of nerves, sacrum, and coccyx. The viscera of the pelvis in the male are—the urinary bladder, prostate gland, vesiculse seminal es, and rectum. URINARY BLADDER. The bladder is a hollow membranous viscus, triangular and flattened against the pnbes when euipty, ovoid when distended, .situated behind the pubes and in front of and upon the rectum. It is larger in its vertical diameter than f roui side to side ; and its long axis is directed from above, obliquely downwards and backwards. Braune lias shown that in the erect posture the neck of the bladder is the lowest part of the viscus. It is divided into body, fundus, base, and neck. The body comprehends the middle zone of the organ; the summit or superior fundus, its upper segment; the base or inferior fundus, tlie lower broad extremity which rests on the rectum ; and the neck, the narrow constricted portion which is applied against the prostate gland. Relations.—When moderately distended the bladder is in rela- noti, in front, with the pubes (some retro-pubic fat intervening), and