232 CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII, orbit ; the other end bifurcates to be inserted into the inner ex- tremities of the tarsal plates ; from its posterior aspect is given off a process which spreads over the lachrymal sac, and is attached to the crest of the lachrymal bone ; this is the i-eHected aponeurosis of the tendo oculi, and serves to protect the lachrymal sac. The external tarsal ligament is a thin band of fibres, con- necting the outer extremity of the eyelids with the malar bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface the muscle is closely ad- herent to the integument, from which it is separated on the eye- lids by a loose areolar tissue. By its deep surface it lies in contact, above, with the upper border of the orbit, corrugator supercilii muscle, frontal and supraorbital vessels, and supraorljital nerve ; below, with the lachrymal sac, levator labii superioris alajoue nasi, levator labii superioris proprius, zygomaticus major ana minor muscles, and malar bone ; externally, with the temporal fascia. On the eyelids it is in relation with the broad tarsal ligament and tarsal plates, and by its ui^per border is connected with the occipito- frontalis. Nerve-supply.—Temporal and malar branches of the facial. The CORRUGATOR SUPERCILII is a small, narrow, and pointed muscle, situated immediately above the orbit, and beneath the upi)er segment of the orbicularis paljiebrarum. It arises from the innei- extremity of the superciliary ridge, and passes upwards and out- wards to 1)6 inserted into the under surface of the orbicularis pal- pebrarum. Some of the fibres pass through the orbicularis and are inserted into the skin. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the occipito-frontalis and orbicularis palpebrarum ; by its deep surface with the frontal bone and supra-trochlear nerve. Nerve-supply.—The facial nerve. The TENSOR TARSI (Horner's muscle) is a thin plane of mus- cular fibres, about three lines in breadth and six in length. It is hest dissected (after the dissection of the orbit has been comjileted) by separating the eyelids from the eye, and turning them over the nose without disturbing the tendo oculi ; then dissect away the small fold of mucous membrane called plica semilunaris, and some loose areolar tissue under which the muscle is concealed. It arises from the orbital surface of the lachrymal bone, and jjassing across the lachrymal sac, divides into two slijjs, which pass behind the lachrymal canals and become continuous with the margin of the orbicularis along the edges of the lids ; some few of its fibres being attached to the lachrymal canals as far as the puncta. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. Actions.—The palpebral portion of the orbicularis acts involun- tarily in closing the lids, and from the greater curve of the upper lid, upon that principally. The entire muscle constitutes a sphinctei-, drawing at the same time, by means of its osseous attachment, the integument and lids inwards towards the nose. The corrugatores supei'ciliorum draw the eyebrows downwards and inwards, and