12 CONNECTIVE TISSUE. to keep the tlireacls and lamina) moist, and laminae we can, by the use of reagcntf Fig. 17.—A portion of living connective tissue, cut out from between the muscles of tlio frog's thigh (highly magnified), a. A pale contracted cell. 6. Ramified cor- puscles, c. A similar corpiiscle with vesicular nucleu.s. ciande. Motionless, coarsely granular cells, f. Fibrillie. </. Bundles of connective tissue. Ii. Elastic fibrous net- work. in the midst of the fibre.'^ , demonstrate the exi.stencc of numerous Itranch- ed and anastomosing cells, the connective- tissue corpmdcs; they are coni2)Osed of pro- toplasm, wliich is "in some tran.sparent, in otlieis granular, and they have a clear nucleus, and often one or more nucleoli. The celL- lie in a gelatinou.- semifluid substance (called the ground, substance), whicli joins the fibres of the tissue togethei-, making them into bundles, occupying in it cavities (called " cell spaces ") which coii'espond accurate! y to the shape and size of each cell. Be- sides the branched cells, there are also migratory or Avaiider cells, like found in areolar tissue a uuiiil)er of the white corpuscles of the blood, composed of protoplasm, and con taining one or more nuclei. These cells lia-\'e the power of moving from plaice to place, and they l)ecome especially numerous when the tissue undergoes intlammatiou. The fibres are very tine, measuring from Kal 5 0T)F5 to of an inch, and are apparently structureless By means of the ground suljstance they are united into bundles, which have a wavy course, and, when viewed by reflected light, ha\'e a white and shining appearance. Mixed with these we commonly find a number of coarser fibres, having a tendency to curl at their ends, and not gathered into Inindles ; acetic acid, which causes the bundles of hl)i'es to swell U]i and l)ecome indistinct, has no effect on these single fibres ; they will l)e more fully described in a later ]iagi' as yellow tissue, it constituting anasarca. Areolar tissue is found beneath the skin, forming a continuous layer all over the body ; beneath .serous and mucous meml)ranes ; around muscles, vessels, and nerves, form- ing sheaths for them, and connecting them with neighliouring or elastic fibres. From the loose arrangement of areolar is often sul)jecte(l during life to infiltration of fluid, this ])arts. It is also found connecting and supporting the lobules