707 SALIVAEY GLANDS. tongue, and a considerable group on its under surface near the tip and on either side of the frtenuni linguse. SALIVARY GLANDS. Communicating with tlie mouth are the excretory ducts of three pairs of salivary glands—the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual. The PAROTID GLAND (napa, near ; ovs, Sjtos, the ear), the largest of the three, is situated immediately in front of the external ear, and extends superficially for a short distance over the masseter muscle ; on its deep aspect it is projected inwards by two processes, one of which lies between the styloid and mastoid processes, and fills up the back part of the glenoid cavity (glenoid lobe) ; the other passes in front of the styloid process (pterygoid lobe). It reaches inferiorly to below the level of the angle of the jaw, and posteriorly to the mas- toid process, slightly overlapping the insertion of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It is sejDarated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo- maxillaiy ligament. Embedded in its substance are—tlie external carotid artery, temporo-maxillary vein, and facial nerve ; emerging from its anterior border, the transverse facial artery and branches of the facial nerve, and above, the temporal artery and auriculo- temporal nerve. On its posterior border lies the great auricular nerve, from which it receives branches. The duct of the parotid gland (Stenson's duct), about two inches in length, and about the diameter of a crow's quill, issues from the anterior jjart of the gland, just below the zygoma, and crosses the masseter muscle ; it then curves inwards over the anterior border of the muscle, and pierces the buccinator opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw ; its course through the mucous mem- brane of the cheek is very oblique, so that the posterior border of its opening forms a valvular fold, which jorevents fluid from passing from the mouth into the duct. The course taken by the duct may be roughly indicated by a line drawn from the bottom of the lobule of the ear to a point midway between the mouth and nose. The duct is dense in structure, and its walls of considerable thickness in 1 proportion to the area of the tube, which is remarkably small. A small glandular appendage, the socia parotidis, is connected with the upper part of the duct on the masseter muscle ; and opens into it by one or several small ducts. The SUBMAXILLARY GLAND, rounded in its form, is situated in the posterior part of the submaxillary triangle of the neck. It rests on the hyo-glossus, stylo-glossus, and mylo-hyoid muscles, and is .covered in by the body of the lower jaw and the deep cervical fascia. It is separated from the parotid gland by the stylo-maxillarv ligament, and from the sublingual gland by the mylo-hyoid muscle. Embedded among its lobules are the facia,! artery and submaxillaiy ganglion. Its excretory duct, Wharton's duct, about two inches in length, issues from the middle of the gland, and passes between the mylo-