137 CLAVICLE AND SCAPULA. scapular half is flattened from above downwards, and broad at its extremity, the articular surface for the acromion occupying only part of its extent. The upper surface is smooth, convex, and partly subcutaneous ; the under surface rough at its outer part, and ex- cavated into a smooth groove in the middle, where it lodges the subclavius muscle. At the sternal extremity of the under surface is a very rough j)rominence, which gives attachment to the rhomboid ligament; and at the other extremity a rough tubercle near the posterior border, for the conoid ligament, and a ridge, running Fig. 126.—Clavicle of the right side ; its upper and anterior face. i. The sternal end. 2. The portion which articulates! witli the first rib. 3, 3. Ridge of attachment of the pectoralis major. 4. Acromial end. 5. Surface of articulation with the acromion. 6, 6. Ridge for the attachment of the deltoid. 7, 7. Line of insertion of tlie trapezius. 8. Line of origin of the sterno-mastoid. forwards and outwards from this, for the trapezoid ligament, both parts of the coraco-clavicular ligament. The opening for the nutrient vessels is seen at the under surface of the bone. Development.—By tivo centres ; one for the shaft and one for the sternal extremity ; the former appearing (in membrane) before any other bone of the skeleton, the latter between eighteen and twenty, Tlie epiphysis joins the shaft about the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With the sternum, scapula, and cartilage of the first rib. _ Attachment of Muscles.—To seve^i; sterno-cleido-mastoid, trape- zius, pectoralis major, deltoid, subclavius, sterno-hyoid and platysma myoides. SCAPULA. The scapula (a-KaTrdvrj, a spade) is a flat triangular bone, situated on the posterior aspect and side of the thorax, and occupving the space from the second to the seventh rib. It is divisible "into an anterior and posterior surface; superior, inferior, and posterior border ; anterior, superior, and inferior angle ; and processes. The anterior surface, or venter, is concave and uneven, forming the subscapular fossa, and is marked by several oblique ridges which have a direction upwards and outwards. It is occupied by the subscapularis muscle, with the exception of the posterior border, a triangular surface near the superior angle, and similar area near the mferior angle, these parts giving attachment to the serratus magnus. Ihe posterior surface, or dorsum, is convex, and unequallv divided into two portions by the spine : that portion above the spine is the supra-spinous fossa ; and that below, the infra-spinous fossa.