212 HIP.JOINT. the borders of the notch of the acetabulum, wliere it is connected with the transverse ligament. It is formed by a fasciculus of fibres of variable size, surrounded by synovial memln-ane ; sometimes the synovial membrane is present without the fibres, or the ligament is wholly absent. The round ligament limits adduction in ihe flexed position, and thus resists dislocation of the head of the femur on to the dorsum of the ilium ; it also limits external rotation when the limb is partly flexed. The cotyloid ligament (Fig, i6i, 6) is a prismoid cord of fibro- cartilage, attached around the margin of the acetabulum, and serving to deepen that cavity and protect its edges. It is thicker at the upper and posterior border of the acetabulum than in front, is inclined inwards towards the acetabulum, and consists of fibres which arise from the whole circumference of the brim, and interlace with each o,ther at acute anojles. The transverse ligament is a strong fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, continuous wiih the cotyloid li<^ament, and stretching across the notch of the acetabulum. It converts the notch into a foramen, through which the articular branches of the internal circumflex and obturator artery enter the joint. The fossa at the bottom of the acetabulum is filled with a mass of fat, covered by synovial membrane, which .serves as an elastic cushion for the head of the bone during its movements. This was described by HaA^ers as the synovial gland. The synovial membrane is extensive ; it commences at the mai'gin of the head of the femur, and is continued around the liga- mentum teres to the acetabulum, whence it is reflected on the inner surface of the capsular ligament back to the head of the bone. Capsular Muscles.—The muscles immediatelj^ surrounding and in contact with the hip-joint are—in front, psoas and iliacus, sepa- rated from the capsular ligament by a large synovial bursa ; above, short head of the rectus and gluteus minimus ; hehhid, pyrifor- mis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, and quadratus femoris; and at the inner side, obturator externus and pectineus. Actions.—The movements of the hip-joint are very extensive : they are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, circumduction, and rotation. When the knee is fle.xed, flexion of the hip-joint is limited only by the contact of the thigh with the abdominal wall, but when the "knee is extended the ham-string muscles check the movement in most persons when the leg forms an angle of 75° with the body. Extension is checked by the ilio-femoral ligament; rotation outwards by the outer part of the ilio-femoral ligament and ligamentum teres ; rotation inwards by the back part of the capsule, the ischio-capsular ligament, and the muscles at the back of the joint. Adduction is limited by the ilio-femoral ligament and upper part of capsule ; abduction by the pubo femoral band and lower part of capsule. Nerve-supply. — Obturator, accessory obturator, and anterior