757 STRUCTURE OF THE SUPRA-RENAL BODIES. cell has a clear .spheroidal nucleus. The medullary portion is separated from the cortical by loose areolar tissue ; it is traversed by large veins, and is composed of a reticular stroma enclosing groups of cells which differ from those of the cortex in being coarsely granular, devoid of oil globules ^■.,.^11^...^^, ^..^. ^— —- ' and many of them branched. The medulla is rich in nerves, and some observers have sup- posed the branched cells of this portion of the organ to be nerve cells, Luschka even stating that lie has traced nerve fibres in connection with them ; this statement is not confirmed by other observers. The blood-vessels of the supra-renal bodies are very numerous. The arteries, about twenty in number, proceed from the aorta, phrenic, cceliac, and renal trunks ; they enter the cortical substance at every point of its surface, the greater number dividing into minute twigs and forming a plexus in the cortical layer ; while others continue onwards to the me- dullary substance, and either terminate in the medullary plexus or cross the medullary substance to re-enter the corti- cal layer and contribute to the formation of its capillary plexus. The veins take their origin from the capillary i^lexus by minute venules, which unite to form the supra-renal vein. The supra- renal vein runs through the centre of the medullary sub- stance, and issues from the supra-renal body at the hilnm on its anterior surface, to terminate on the right side in the inferior vena cava, on the left in the renal vein. The lymphatic vessels are numerous, and belong to the exterior of the organ ; they terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are A'ery numerous, and derived from the renal and phrenic plexus, some filaments being received from the phrenic and vagus nerves ; Kijlliker counted as many as thirty-thi'ee trunks, composed of dark-ljordered nerve-fibi'es and provided with isolated Fio. 464.—Vertical section of snpra-reiial body. I. Cortex. 2. Medulla, a. Cap- sule. I). Zona glomerulosa. c. Zona fasci- culata. (/. Zona reticularis, c. Medullary substance. /. Section of a vein.