665 SEMILUNAK VALVES. columns interlacing in almost every direction. They are divided, according to the manner of their connection, into three sets. i. The great number are attached by the whole of one side, and merely form convexities into the cavity of the ventricle. 2. Others are connected by both extremities, being free in the middle. 3. Two of larger size called musculi papillares, are attached by one ex- tremity to the walls of the heart, and by the other give insertion to the 'chordte tendinese. One of these is connected with the anterior and the other with the posterior wall of the ventricle. At the base of the anterior one a transverse fleshy band stretches across to the ventricular septum ; it is called the moderator band, and is believed to strengthen the thin anterior wall by binding it to the firmer septum. The semilunar or sigmoid valves, three in number, are situated around the commencement of the pulmonary artery, being formed by a folding of its lining membrane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue. They are attached by their convex borders, and free by the concave, which are directed upwards in the course of the vessel, so that, during the current of the blood along the artery, [i they are pressed against the sides of the cylinder ; but if regurgita- tion ensue, they are immediately expanded, and effectually close the entrance of the tu.be. The margins of the valves are thicker than the rest of their extent, and each valve presents in the centre of this margin a small fibrous thickening, called corpus Arantii, which locks in with the other two during the closure of the valves, and ) secures the triangular space which would otherwise be left by the I approximation of three semilunar folds. On each side of the nodule, the edge of the valve is folded and thin, and to this j^art the term lumda has been applied. When the valves are closed, the lunulse are brought in contact with each other by their surfaces. i Between the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are three pouches called the pulmonary sinuses (sinuses of Valsalva), Similar sinuses are situated behind the valves at the commencement of the aorta, and are larger and more capacious than those of tlie pulmonary artery. The pulmonary artery commences by a scalloped border, corre- sponding with the three valves which are attached along its edge. It is connected to the ventricle by muscular fibres, and by the lining membrane of the heart. The LEFT or POSTERIOR AURICLE is thicker than the right, and situated more posteriorly. The auricular appendix is constricted at its junction with the auricle, and has a foliated appearance : it is directed forwards towards the root of the pulmonary artery, to which the auriculce of both sides appear to converge. Dissection.—The left auricle is to be laid open by one incision, running vertically downwards in front of the pulmonary veins, and a second at right angles to this, into the auricular appendix. It presents for examination five o])enings, and the muscular structure of the appendix : the fossa ovalis, as previously observed, is not to