EYELIDS. 617 the lids in this situation. At the commencement of this space, upon the edge of each of the lids, is a small angular projection, the lachrymal papilla ; and at the apex of each papilla is a small orifice, punctum lachrymale, the commencement of the lachrymal canaliculus. The eyelids have entering into their structure, integument, orbi- cularis palpebrarum muscle, tarsal plates, palpebral ligament, Mei- bomian glands, and conjunctiva. The areolar tissue of the skin of the eyelids is remarkable for its looseness, and the absence of adipose substance ; it is particularly liable to serous infiltration. The fibres of the orbicularis are for the most part thin and pale, but a thicker band of fibres has been found internal to the eye- lashes, constituting the ciliary muscle of Kiolan. The tarsal plates are two thin plates of dense connective tissue, al)out an inch in length, which give form and support to the eyelids. The ihpper plate is of a semilunar form, thicker in the middle than at its extremities ; its lower border is broad and flat, its upper thin, and gives attachment to the levator palpebrse muscle and the palpebral ligament. The lower plate, narrower than the upper, is situated in the substance of the lower lid. Its upper border is flat, and corresponds with the flat edge of the upper plate ; the loAver border is attached to the palpebral ligament. Near the inner canthus, the tarsal plates terminate at the commencement of the lacus lachrymalis, and are attached to the margin of the orbit by the tendo oculi. At their outer extremity they terminate at a short distance from the canthus, and are retained in position by a fibrous band which is j^art of the paljDebral ligament, and is called the external tarsal ligament. The palpebral ligament (broad tarsal ligament) is a fibrous mem- brane which is firmly attached to the periosteum around the margin of the orbit, and to the internal free edges of the tarsal plates. It is thick and dense for the outer half of the orbit, but becomes thin to its inner side. Its use is to retain the tarsal jjlates in their place, and give supi)ort to the lids. The Meibo- mian glands are emljedded in grooves on the under sur- face of each tar- sal plate, and are distinctlyrseen on examining the inner aspect of the lids. They have the appearance of parallel strings of pearls, about thirty in Fig. 354.—Meibomian glands, as seen upon the inner side of the eyelids, i. Upper lid. 2. Lower lid. 3, 3. Conjunctiva. 4. Apertuies of the Meibomian glands, forming a row along the free border of each eyelid. 5, 5. Papillce lachry- niales. 6, 6. Puncta luchrymalia. 7. Apertures of the efferent ducts of the lachrymal gland.