HAM-STRING MUSCLES. By its outer or deep surface with the adductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and the internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, from which latter it is separated by a synovial bursa common to it and the tendons of the gi-acilis and semi-tendinosus. ■ Nerve-supply.—Obturator nerve. Actions.—The iliacus, psoas, pectineus, and adductor longus muscles Hex the thigh upon the pelvis, and at the same time, from the obliquity of their insertion into the lesser trochanter and linea aspera, rotate the limb outwards ; the pectineus and adductors ad- Iduct the thigh powerfully, and from the manner of their insertion into the linea aspera, assist in rotating the limb outwards. The gracilis is an adductor of the thigh ; but contributes to the flexion of the leg, by its attachment to the tibia. Posterior Femoral E-egion.—Ham-string Muscles. Biceps femoris, Semi-tendinosus, Semi-membranosus. Dissection.—Kemove the integument and fascia from the posterior part of the thigh by two flaps, and turn aside the gluteus maximus from the upper part; the muscles may then be examined. "The BICEPS FEMORIS (flexor cruris) arises by two heads, one (long head) by a common tendon with the semi-tendinosus from the lower and inner part of the tuber ischii ; the other (short head), muscular and much shorter, from the loAver two-thirds of the external border of the linea aspera, external supracondylar ridge, and external i intermuscidar septum. The short head reaches as high as the in- ! sertion of the gluteus maximus. The biceps forms the outer haui- string, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the' head of the ftbula ; one portion of the tendon being continued downwards into the fascia of the leg, and another being attached to the outer tuberosity (of the tibia. At its insertion into the fibula the tendon divides into two portions, between which the long external lateral ligament of the knee passes, a synovial bursa being interposed. } Relations.—By its superficial or posterior surface with the gluteus maximus and fascia lata. By its deep or anterior surface with the semi-membranosus, adductor magnus, vastus externus, from which !iit is separated by the external intermuscular septum, great ischiatic nerve, popliteal arteiy and vein, and, ne^r its insertion the external head of the gastrocnemius and plantaris. By its inner border with the semi-tendinosus, and in the popliteal space with the popliteal artery and vein. Its tendon of insertion has the external popliteal nerve in immediate relation with it posteriorly. Nerve-supply.—Great sciatic nerve. The SEMI-TENDINOSUS, remarkable for its long tendon, arises in ! common with the long head of the biceps, from the lower and inner part of the tuberosity of the ischium : the two muscles being closely united for several inches below their origin. It is inserted into the