211 HIP-JOINT. The articular surfaces are—the cup-shaped cavity of the acetabu- lum and the rounded head of the femur ; the ligaments are five in number, viz. :— Capsular, Teres, Ilio-femoral, Cotyloid, Transverse. The capsular ligament (Fig. i6o, 8) is a strong ligamentous capsule embracing the acetabulum superiorly, the neck of the femur below, and connecting the two bones firmly together. The pelvic origin of the fibres extends superiorly as high as the base of the anterior inferior iliac spine, posteriorly it is connected with the ilium and ischium only a few lines from the margin of the acetabulum, inferiorly it is attached to the outer lip of the groove between the ischial tuberosity and acetabulum, while in front it springs from the transverse ligament, the pubes near the notch, and tbe pectineal eminence. On the femur the capsule gets attached in front to the spiral line, above to the base of the great trochanter, behind to the junction of the middle and outer thirds of the neck, and reaches below to within three-quarters of an inch of the lesser trochanter. The capsule is composed of longitudinal and circular fibres ; the former are chiefly found on the front, and the latter are most numerous on the back. The longitudinal fibres at the back of the capsule are almost entirely confined to the surface next the synovial membrane ; after running outwards for some distance they are re- flected along the neck of the femur to the articular margin ; from their close connection with the bone they often prevent the separa- tion of the fragments in intracapsular fracture of the neck, and liave received the name of retinaada. The capsule receives strengthening bands from the tendons of the rectus, ilio-psoas, gluteus minimus, and obturator externus. The ilio-femoral ligament is the chief accessory band of the capsule. It is placed anteriorly, and is connected above with the ilium immediately below and behind the anterior inferior spine ; it is attached below to the front of the great trochanter and spiral line as far as the inner border of the shaft of the femur. 'Jlie fibres at the inner and outer borders of this ligament are thicker than the middle ones, and as they diverge from each other they present the appear- ance of an inverted Y; hence this ligament has been described by Bigelow under the name of the Y-shaped ligament: it must, how- ever, be borne in mind that the interspace between the two limbs is filled in_ by radiating fibres, so that strictly no true Y-shaped liga- ment exists. Other accessory bands of fibres exist on the superior, inferior, and anterior aspects of the capsule ; these have been named respectively, ilio-trochanteric, ischio-capsiUar, and imho-femoral liga- ments. The ligamentum teres (Fig. i6i, 7), trian^ular in shape, is attached by a round apex to the depression just below the middle of the head of the femur, and by its base, which separates into two fasciculi, into