386 BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. bmne of tlie door of the nioutli, and muscles of tlie tongue. It iis situated between the mylo-liyoid and genio-hyo-glossus, generally accompanies Wharton's duct for a part of its course, and wends a branch to the f ra^num lingiue. The latter branch aftbrds the hemor- rhage which sometimes follows the operation of snipping the fryenum in children. The ranine artery may be looked on as the true continuation of the lingual; it runs forwards beneath the tongue, resting upon the lingualis muscle, having the genio-hyo-glossus to its inner side, and is covered by mucous membrane. It distributes numerous small branches to the substance of the tongue, bvit does not, as is generally stated, anastomose witli its fellow of the opposite side. Hyrtle has proven by experimental injections that there is no communication between the arteries of the two sides, and this fact is substantiated by the exijerience of surgeons, who find that the longitudinal section of the tongue in the middle line is unaccompanied by arterial hemorrhage. FACIAL ARTERY.—-The facial artery (maxillaris externa) arises immediately above the lingual and a little above the great cornu of the hyoid bone, and passes forwards to the submaxillary gland, in which it lies embedded. It then curves around the body of the lower jaw, close to the anterior inferior angle of the masseter muscle, ascends to the angle of the mouth, and thence to the angle of the eye, where it is named angular artery. The facial artery is tortuous in its course over the buccinator muscle to accommodate itself to the movements of the jaw. Relations.—Below the jaw it passes beneath the digastricus and stylo-hyoid muscles ; on the body of the lower jaw it is covered by the platysma myoides, and at the angle of the mouth by the de- pressor anguli oris and zygomatic muscles. It rests on the sub- maxillary gland, lower jaw, buccinator, orbicularis oris, levator anguli oris, levator labii superioris proprius, and levator labii supe- rioris alaeque nasi. Its branches may be grouped into those which are given off below the jaw, and those on the face ; they may be thus arranged :— Below the Jaw. On the Face. Ascending palatine, Muscular, Tonsillar, Buccal, Submaxillary, Inferior labial, Submental, Inferior coronary, Muscular. Superior coronary, Lateral nasal. Angular. The inferior oi- ascending palatine branch ascends between the ptvlo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, to be distributed to the styloid muscles. Eustachian tube, tonsil and soft palate, and anasto-