24 BONE. also found large isolated cells with many nuclei, called giant cells or myeloflaxes. Development of Bone.—The majority of the bones are developed from cartilage, wliicli forms a mould of the same shape as the bone to l)e foi'med, but the tabular bones of the skull and nearly all the bones of the face are formed between two layers of mendjrane with- out the presence of cartilage, and after the bones have been once formed, their further enlargement or growth takes place chiefly by the deposit of osseous matter beneath the periosteum. We have thus three modes of ossification—intracurtilac/inotis, intramembranous, and subperiosteal—but as the two latter are essentially the same, only two forms fall to be described here. Intramembranous Ossification.—The bones formed without a preceding cartilaginous matrix are, the upper part of the frontal, parietal, upper part of occipital, nasal, lachrymal, palate, vomer, zygoma, upper ja^' and greater part of lower jaw, and inner layer of sphenoidal spongy bones (Kolliker). If we examine a parietal bone about the period of commencing ossification, we shall find that the intermediate space between the pericranium on the oiitside and the dura mater within is occupied by a membranous structure consisting of delicate translucent fibres, among which fusiform and stellate cells are distributed. In the centre of the bone a deposition of calcareous salts takes place in this membrane, and spreads from the centre towards the cir- cumference in radiating lines, connected together by trans^-erse bars irregu- larly disposed. The os- seous spicules are coated over with a soft trans- 23arent substance which lias been called "oste- ogen," and upon this groups of cells may be observed. The cells are very closely aggregated so as often comjdetely to cover the spicules ; they are granular in character, and of large size, and, as it is believed that they are the active agents in the production of bone, they have been named "osteoblasts." Many of the cells get embedded'in the new bone, and, being compressed by it, become irregular in outline ; lliey give off fine thi'cad-like processes, l)y means of which they com- municate with neighbouring cells. From Ilie presence of these cells and their processes, cavities and canals are necessarily left in the Fk;. 37.—Osteoblasts fiom the parietal bone of a human embryo thirteen weeks old. a. Bony septa, with the cells of tlie lacuna;, b. Layers of osteoblasts, c. The latter in transition to bone corpuscles.