541 OPHTHALMIC NERVE. far as the summit of the head. The external Iranch of larger size communicates with the facial nerve, and piercing the occipito- frontalis supplies the integument as far back as the occiput. The supra-trochlear branch passes inwards to the angle of the orbit, above the superior oblique muscle and close to the pulley, and is distributed to the inner angle of the eye, root of the nose, and m- Fig. 322.—Diagram showing the fifth pair of nerves with its branches, i. Origin of the nerve by two i-oots. 2. The nerve escaping from the pons Varolii. 3. Gas- serian ganglion. 4. Ophthalmic nerve. 5. Frontal nerve giving off the supra- trochlear branch. 6. Lachrymal nerve. 7. Nasal nerve passing at 8 through the anterior internal orbital foramen, and giving off the infra-trochlear branch. 9. Superior root of the ophthalmic ganglion given off from nasal nerve. 10. Inferior . or motor root, derived from third nerve ; the ganglion gives off the ciliary nerves from its anteiior aspect. 11. Superior maxillary nerve. 12. Orbital branch. 13. Spheno-palatine nerves communicating with Meckel's ganglion ; the three branches from the lower part of the ganglion are the palatine nerves. 14, 14. Superior dental nerves, posterior, middle, and anterior. 15. Infra-orbital branches. 16. Inferior maxillary nerve. 17. Its anterior or muscular trunk. 18. The posterior trunk; the two divisions are separated by an arrow. 19. Lingual nerve. 20. Chorda tymp.ani joining it at an acute angle. 21. Submaxillary ganglion. 22. In- ferior dental nerve. 23. Mylo-hyoid brancli. 24. Auriculo-temporal nerve, divid- ing behind the articulation of the lower jaw, to reunite and form a single trunk. 25. Its branch of communication with the facial nerve. 26. Continuation of its trunk to the temple. tegument of tlie middle line of the forehead. It communicates with the infra-trochlear branch of the nasal nerve. The lachrymal nerve, the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic, enters the orbit on the outer side of the frontal, but enclosed in a separate sheath of dura mater ; and passes forward, above the upper border of the external rectus muscle, and in com- pany with the lachrymal artei'y to the lachrymal gland, where it divides into two branches, superior and inferior. The superior