SCAPULO-CLAVICULAE AETICULATION. 199 articular cartilage, the forward and backward movements between the cartilage and the sternum ; in circumduction the two portions of the articulation alternately take part in the movement. The upward movement is limited by the rhomboid ligament, the down- ward movement by the inter-clavicular ligament. This articulation is the centre of the movements of the shoulder. 2. SCAPULO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION.—The ligaments of the scapular end of the clavicle are :— Superior acromio-clavicular. Inferior acromio-clavicular, Coraco-clavicular (trapezoid and conoid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The superior acromio-clavicular ligament is a moderately thick plane of fibres passing be- tween the extremity of the clavicle and the acromion, on the upper surface of the joint. It is strengthened by the tendinous fibres of the trapezius and deltoid, and on its deep surface is connected with the inter- articular cartilage. The inferior acromio- clavicular ligament is a thin plane situated on the under surface. These two ligaments are continuous with each other in front and behind, and form a capsule around the articu- lation. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is often indistinct, from having partial connections with the cartilaginous surfaces of the- two bones between which it is placed, and is fre(|uently absent. When partial, it occupies the j upper part of the articula- > tion. The synovial mem- branes are thin ; and when \ the fibro-cartilage is in- ' complete, there is but one. The coraco-clavicular ligament is a thick fasciculus of ligamen- FiG. 164.—Ligaments of the scapula and shoulder- joint. I. Superior acromio-clavicular ligament. 2. Coraco-clavicular ligament; this aspect of the ligament is named trapezoid. 3. Ti-apezoid por- tion of the same ligament. 4. Coraco-acromial lig.iment. 5. Transverse ligament. 6. Capsular lig.ament. 7. Coraco-humeral ligament. 8. The long tendon of the biceps issuing from the capsular ligament, and entering the bicipital groove. r