Hi LOBES OF THE LIVER. from whicli it is separated, on tlie concave surface, by tlie longi- tudinal fissure, and on tlie convex, by the falciform ligament. It is marked on its under surface by the transverse fissure, and by the fissures for the gall-bladder and vena cava; and presents three depressions, one in front {impressio colica) for the curve of the ascending colon, and one behind (impressio renalis) for the right supra-renal capsule and kidney. On the imrer edge of the renal impression, a narrow and indistinct marking is generally present, being the part against which the ascending duodenum lies {impressio duoclmalis). The left lobe is small and flattened, convex on its upper surface and concave below, where it lies in contact with the anterior sur- face of the stomach. It is sometimes in contact by its extremity Fu;. 451.—Under surface of t)ie liver, i. Right lobe. 2. Left lobe. 3. Lobus quadratus. 4. Lobus Spigelii. 5. Lo- bus caudatus. 6. Lon- gitudinal fissure ; tlie figure is placed on the rounded cord, the re- mains of the umbili- cal vein. 7. Pons he- I)atis. 8. Fissure of the ductus venosus ; the obliterated cord of the ductus is seen passing backwards to be at- tached to the coats of the inferior vena cava (9). 10. Gall-bladder lodged in its fissure. 11. Transverse fissure, containing, from before backwards, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, and portal vein. 12. Vena cava. 13. Depression corresponding with the curve of the colon. 14. Depression produced by the right kidney. 15. Rough surface on the posterior border of the liver left uncovered by peritoneum ; the cut edge of the peritoneum surrounding this surface forms pai t of the coronary ligament. 16. Notch on the anterior border separating the two lobes. 17. Notch on the posterior border corresponding with the vertebral column. with the upper end of the spleen, and is in relation, by its posterior border, with the cardiac orifice of the stomach and left pneumo- gastric nerve. The lobus quadratus is a quadrilateral lobe situated on the under siirface of the right lobe : it is bounded, in front, by the free border of the liver ; behind, by the transverse fissure ; to the right, by the gall-bladder ; and to the left, by the longitudinal fissure. The lobus Spigelii is a small triangular lobe, also situated on the under surface of the right lobe : it is bounded, m front, by the transverse fissure ; and, on the sides, by the fissures for the ductus venosus and vena cava. The lobus caudatus is a small tail-like appendage of the lobus Spigelii, from which it runs outwards like a crest into the right lobe, and serves to separate the right extremity of the transverse fissure