FEMORAL ARTEKY. 438 and integument, and inosculates with branches of the deep epigastric and internal mannuary arteries. Tlie superficial external pudic arises near the superficial epi- gastric artery ; it pierces the fascia lata at the saphenous opening, and passes transversely inwards, crossing the sperniatic cord, to be distribiited to the integument of the penis and scrotum in the male, and to the labia in the female. The deep external pudic arises from the femoral a little Ijelow, and sometimes in common -wdth, the preceding ; it crosses the femoral \'ein immediately below the termination of the internal saphena vein, and resting on the jiectineus muscle reaches the inner border of the tliigh, where it pierces the fascia lata, and is distributed to the in- tegument of the external organs of generation and perineum. Both external pudics inosculate with the internal pudic artery. The PROFUNDA FEMORIS arises from the outer and posterior side of the femoral artery about one inch and a half beloM' Poupart's ligament; it passes downwards and backwards and a little outwards, behind the adductor longus muscle, jiierces the adductor magnus, and is distributed to the flexor muscles on the posterior pai't of the thigh. It is so large that it may be considered a division of the common femoral, in which case the continuation of the main trunk may be called superficial. Plan of the Relations of the Profunda Artery. In Front. Femoral vein, Profunda vein, Adductor longus. Inner Side. Pecfcineus, Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus. Profunda Artery. Outer Side. Vastus internus, Femur. Behind, Pectineus, Iliacus, Adductor brevis. Adductor magnus. Branches.—The liranches of the profunda artery are the external circumflex, internal circumflex, and three perforating arteries. The external circumflex artery passes outwards beneath the sartorius and rectiis and in front of the cinirens muscle, crossing between the divisions of the crural nerve, and di^■ides into three sets of branches : ascending, which pass upwards beneath the sar- torius, rectus, and tensor vaginte femoris, and inosculate with the terminal branches of the gluteal and circumflex iliac arteries ; de- scending, which pass downwards beneath the rectus and along the margin of the vastus externus muscle, distributing branches to the rectus, \'astus externus and crureus ; some of the lower twigs can lie traced as far as the knee, where they inosculate with the supei-ior articular artej'ies of tlie poy)liteal ; and transverse, which oontniue 41