585 ANTEKIOE CEURAL NEEVE. division of the obturator, being sometimes derived from it near its origin, and sometimes by sejDarate filaments from the third and foiu-th lumbar nerves. It jDasses down the inner border of the psoas muscle, crosses the os pubis, and dips beneath the pectineus, where it divides into branches. One of its branches is distributed to the pectineus, another supplies the hip-joint, while a third communi- cates with the anterior branch of the obturator nerve, and when of large size constitutes its cutaneous branch. As already stated, the existence of the accessory obturator nerve is uncertain. The ANTERIOR CRURAL is the largest of the divisions of the lumbar plexus ; it is formed by the union of branches from the second, third, and fourth lumbar nerves, and is distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the thigh, leg, and foot, to all the muscles of the front of the thigh (excepting one), to the iliacus, j)ectineus, femoral artery, and knee-joint. Emerging from beneath the psoas, the nerve passes downwards in the groove between that muscle and the iliacus, and beneath Poupart's ligament into the thigh, where it spreads out and divides into numerous branches. At Poupart's ligament it is separated from the femoral artery by the breadth of the psoas muscle, which at this point is scarcely more than half an inch in diameter, and by the iliac fascia, beneath which it lies. Branches.—Within the pelvis, the anterior crural nerve gives off three or four twigs to the iliacus muscle, and a branch to the femoral artery. The latter divides into filaments which entwine about the artery, and follow its course downwards in the thigh. Below Pou- part's ligament the crural nerve becomes flattened out, and divides into numerous branches, Mdiich may be arranged into two principal groups, superficial and deep. The separate branches of these groups are as follows :— Superficial. Deep. Middle cutaneous. Muscular, Internal cutaneous. Articular, Long or internal saphenous. The superficial branches are mainly cutaneous, but they supply motor filaments to two muscles, namely, pectineus and sartorius ; the deep branches are all motor, with the exception of the long saphenous, which is purely sensory. The middle cutaneous nerve pierces the fascia lata at about three inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into two branches, which pass down the inner and front part of the thigh, and are distributed to the integument as low as the knee-joint. At its upper part the external branch comnmnicates with the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve ; and below, the internal branch communicates with the internal cutaneous. One or both of these branches sometimes pierce the sartorius muscle. The internal cutaneous nerve passes inwards in front of the