230 OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS. with those of the pyramidalis nasi, corrugator siipercilii, and orbi- cxilans palpebraiaini ; immediately above the root of the nose the fibres of the right and left muscles are united, but as they pass upwards a small angular interval is left between them; they are inserted into the anterior extremity of the aponeurosis. Most of the Irontal hbres have no bony attachment, but a few are connected with the internal angular process of the frontal bone. The epicranial aponeurosis of the two sides covers the whole of the vertex of the .skull, and terminates in front and behind in narrow processes interposed between the fleshy bellies ; it is attached posteriorly to tlie occipital protuberance and superior curved line, and receives iG. 182.—Muscles of the head and face. I. Frontal portion of the occipito-frontalls. a. Its occipital portion. 3. Epicranial aponeu- rosis. 4. Orbicularis palpebrarum, which conceals the corrugator supercilii and tensor tarsi. 5. Pyramidalis nasi. 6. Compres- sor niisi. 7. Orbicularis oris. 8. Levator labii superioris alseque nasi; the adjoining fasciculus be- tween fig\n-es 8 and 9 is the labial portion of the muscle. 9. Levator labii.superioris proprius ; the lower part of the levator anguli oris i.s seen between the muscles 10 and II. 10. Zygomaticus minor. 11. Zygomaticus major. 12. Depressor labii inferioris. 13. Depressor anguli oris. 14. Levator labii in- ferioris. 15. Superficial poi-tion of the masseter. 16. Part of its deep portion. 17. Attrahens auriculam. 18. Buccinator. 19. AttoUens auriculam. 20. Temporal fascia covering the temporal muscle. 21. Retrahens auriculam. 22. An- terior belly of the digastric; the tendon is seen: passing through its aponeurotic pulley. 23. Stylo-hyoid muscle pierced by the superior belly of the digastric. 24. Mylo-hyoid. 25. Upper part of the sterno-mastoid. 26. Upper part of the trapezius. The muscle between 25 and 26 is the splenius. in front the attachment of the anterior bellies, ending about the middle of the forehead. By its lateral margins it gives origiii to the attollens and attrahens auriculam muscles, and is continued df)wii to the zygoma as a thin layer of fascia. Eelations.^—This muscle is in relation by its external surface the frontal and supraorlutal vessels, supraorbital and facial nerves, temporal vessels and auriculo-tera])oral nerve, occipital vessels and nerves, and integument, to which last it is closely adherent. Its under surface is attached to the jiericranium by a loose areolar tissue, which permits considerable movement. Nerve-supply.—Posterior or occij)ital portion by the posterior auriculai"; frontal portion by the temporal—both branches of tlie facial.