148 CARPUS. Articulations.—With jive bones : radius, scaphoid, os magnum, cuneiform, and unciform. Attachment of Muscles.—No muscles are attached to this bone. CUNEIFORM OR PYRAMIDAL.—This bone may be best dis- tinguished by an oval isolated facet, which articulates with the pisiform bone. Its palmar sur- face is narrow and rough ex- ternally for the attachment of ligaments ; internally it presents the characteristic facet for the pisiform just referred to. The dorsal surface is broad and rough for ligamentous attach- ment. The distal end of the cuneiform bone has a broad smooth surface for articulation with the unci- form ; the proximal surface is partly rough for the attachment of ligaments, and ])artly smooth for articulation with the trian- gular fibrocartilage. The oiiter side is marked l)y a circular facet corresjjonding to the one on the inner side of the semi- lunar ; the iK^ter surface is rough, and gives attachment to the in- ternal lateral ligament of the wrist. Recognition.—Hold the l)one with the pisiform articular facet upwards, and the broad articular surface directed forwards; the circular articular facet for the semilunar will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With three bones : semilunar, pisiform, and unciform; and with the triangular fibrocartilage of the wrist- joint. Attachment of Muscles.—To none. PISIFORM.—This bone may be recognised hy its small size, and by the possession of only one articular facet. Examined carefully, it will be observed to present four vside.s and two extremities ; one side is articular, the smooth facet approaching nearer to the proximal than to the distal extremity. The side opposite to this is rounded ; the remaining sides are, one slightly concave, the other slightly convex. Recognition.—If the bone be held with the articular surface directed downwards, and the overhanging portion pointing forwards. Fic. 134.—Diagram showing tlie dorsal sur- face of tlie bones of the carpus, with tlieir articulations. The right hand:—r. Lower end of radius, u. Lower end of ulna. F. Interarticular fibrocartilage, attached to the styloid process of the ulna, and to the margin of the articular surface of the radius, s. Scaplioid bone. l. Semilunar, r. Pisiform, t. Trapezium, t. Trapezoid. M. Os magnum. u. Unciform. Tlic figures both on the carpal and metacarpal bones refer to the number of bones with wliicli they articulate.