97 TEMPORAL BONE. of bone, the auditori/ process, whicli, when traced backwards, is seen to be continuous with the bone ensheathing the styloid process. The apex of the petrous bone is pierced by the inner opening of the carotid canal, and forms the posterior and external boundary of the middle lacerated foramen. The anterior surface, forming the back part of the middle fossa of the base of the skull, presents from base to apex, firstly, a slight depression, whicli corresponds to the position of the roof of the tympanic cavity; next, an eminence caused by the projection of the superior semicircular canal; thirdly, a groove leading to an irregular oblique opening, the hiatus Fallopii, for the transmission of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve ; another and smaller oblique foramen, immediately beneath the preceding, for the passage of the lesser petrosal nerve ; and lastly, near the apex of the bone, a depression for the Gasserian ganglion. The posterior surface forms the front of the posterior fossa of the skull; near its middle is the oblique entrance of the meatus audilorius internus, which gives passage to the seventh and eighth nerves and the auditory artery. Above the meatus auditorius in- ternus is a small oblique fissiu-e, and a minute fora- men ; the former lodges a process of the dura mater, and the foramen gives passage to a small vein. Furtlier out- wards, towards the mastoid portion of the bone, is a small slit, almost hidden by a thin plate of bone ; this is the aquceductus vestihuli, and transmits a small artery and vein of the vestibule and a process of dura mater. Below the meatus, and partly concealed by the margin of the posterior border of the bone, is a triangular opening, the termination of the aquceductus cochlem, through which passes a vein from the cochlea to the inferior petrosal sinus, and a process of dura mater. Fio. 102.—Right temporal boue, seen from below. I. Squamous portion. 2. Mastoid Ijortion. 3. Petrous portion. 4. Zygoma. 5. Tubercle of the zygoma. 6. Articular eminence. 7. Glenoid fossa. 8. Glaserian fissure. 9. External auditory meatus. 10. Styloid process. 11. Digastric fossa. 12. Occipital groove. 13. Stylo-mastoid foramen. 14. Jugular fossa. 15. Foramen for Jacobson's nerve. 16. Jugular notcb. 17. Aquseductus cochleae. 18, 18. Carotid canal. 19. Canals for the tensor tympaui muscle and Eusta- chian tube. eo. Mastoid foramen.