ETHMOID BONE. pterygoid, internal pterygoid, superior constrictor, tensor palati, laxalor tympani, levator palpebrte, obliquus superior, superior rectus, internal rectus, inferior rectus, and external rectus. ETHMOID BONE. The ethmoid (rjdfxos, a sieve) is a square-shaped cellular bone, situated betAveen the two orbits, at the root of the nose, and per- forated on its upper surface by a number of small openings, from which peculiarity it has received its name. It consists of a horizontal plate, a perpendicular lamella, and two lateral masses. The horizontal or cribriform plate connects the lateral masses vntli the jjerpendicular lamella, and is situated on the upper asj^ect of the bone. It is hollowed into two shallow grooves (olfactory grooves) which support the olfactory bulbs, and is pierced by numerous fora- mina, for the filaments of the olfactory nerve. In the middle of each groove the foramina pierce the bone comj)letely, but at the sides the openings communicate with minute canals which run in the sides of the central lamella, the lateral masses and turbinated bones. At the anterior extremity of the cribriform plate are two narrow slits, for the nasal branch of the fifth nerve ; its posterior border articu- lates with the ethmoidal spine of the sphenoid. The perpendicular lamella is a thin central plate, which articu- lates by its anterior border with the frontal spine and crest of the Fig. 107.—Ethmoid bone seen from above and be- hind. I. Perpendicular lamella. 2, 2. Lateral masses ; the figures are placed on the posterior border of the lateral mass at each side. 3. Crista galli. 4. Cribriform plate of the left side, pierced by its foramina. 5. ThelioUowspaceimmediately above and to the left of this number is the supe- rior meatus. 6. Superior turbinated bone. 7. Middle turbinated bone; the numbers, 5, 6, 7, are situated on the internal surface of the left lateral mass, near itsposterior parts. 8. External surface of the lateral mass, or os planum. 9. Superior or frontal border of the lateral mass, grooved by the anterior and posterior internal orbital canals. 10. Refers to the concavity of the middle turbinated bone, which is tlxe upper boundary of the middle meatus. 11. Unciform process. nasal bones, and by its posterior border Mitli the crest of the sphenoid and xipper edge of the vomer. Its inferior border is broad and bilaniinar ; it articulates with the septal cartilage of the nose. It is sunnounted superiorly by a thick and strong process, the crista qalli, Avhich projects mto the cavity of the skull, and gives attachment to the falx cerebri. From the Imse of the anterior border of this process there project forward two small plates, alar processes, which are re- ceived into corresponding depressions in the frontal bone, and often complete posteriorly the foramen ccecum. That portion of the per- pendicular plate which lies below the level of the cribriform plate assists m forming the septum of the nose.