TESTICLES. 783 A small convoluted duct, of variable length, is generally con- nected with the duct of the epididymis, just at the commencement of the vas deferens. This is the vasculum aberrans of Haller ; it -is attached to the epididymis by the areolar tissue in which that body is enveloped. Sometimes it becomes dilated towards its extremity, but more frequently retains the same diameter through- out. The rete testis is lined by a single layer of squamous cells. The lining cells of the vasa efferentia and upper part of the epididymis are columnar or prismatic in form, and are ciliated ; in the lower part of the epididymis the cilia disappear. The walls of these canals are of considerable thickness, and contain unstriped muscular fibre arranged for the most part in a circular manner. In front of the spermatic cord, and in contact with the globus major of the epididymis, is a minute irregular structure, which, on •microscopic examination, is found to be tubular. It is the remains of the Wolffian body, and is called the parepididymis or organ of - Giraldes. The vas deferens may be traced upwards, from the globus minor of the epididymis along the posterior part of the spermatic cord, and along the spermatic canal to the internal abdominal ring. From the ring it is reflected inwards to the side of the fundus of the bladder, and descends along its posterior surface, crossing the ureter, to the inner border of the vesicula seminalis. In the latter situation it becomes somewhat larger in size and sacculated (forming an ampulla), and terminates at the base of the prostate gland, by uniting with the duct of the vesicula seminalis, and constituting the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory duct, which is thus formed by the junction of the duct of the vesicula seminalis with the vas deferens, passes forwards in the outer wall of the sinus pocularis, and terminates by a slit-like opening by the side of the aperture of the " sinus. The TESTICLES IN THE EMBRYO are situated in the lumbar regions, immediately in front of and somewhat below the Icidneys. They have, connected with them inferiorly, a peculiar structure, which assists in their descent, and is called the gubernaculum testis. The gubernaculum is a soft and conical cord, composed of areolar tissue, containing in its areolae a gelatiniform fluid. In the abdomen it lies in front of the psoas muscle, and passes along the spermatic canal, which it serves to distend for the passage of the testis. It is attached by its superior and larger exti'emity to the lower end of the testis and epididymis, and by the inferior extremity to the bottom of the scrotum. The gubernaculum is surrounded hj a thin layer of muscular fibres, the cremaster, which passes upwards upon this body to be attached to the testis. Inferiorly the muscular fibres divide into three processes, which are thus attached : the external and broadest is connected to Poupart's ligament in the inguinal canal; the middle forms a lengthened band, which escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends to the bottom of the