COCHLEA. 64s extremities. Near one extremity of each of the canals is a dilatation of its cavity which is called amjmlla. I. The superior or perpendicular canal is directed transversely across the jjetrons bone, and forms that jjrominence on its anterior I surface which we have already desciibed. It commences by means J of an ampulla in the uj^per j^art of the vestibule, and terminates posteriorly by joining with the oblique canal, and forming a common canal which opens into the back part of the vestibule. • 2. The posterior or oblique canal corresponds with the posterior part of the petrous bone ; it commences by an ampullary dilatation in the jjosterior part of the vestibule, and curves nearly perpen- dicularly upwards to terminate in the common canal. In the am- pulla of this canal are numerous openings for nervous filaments. 3. The external or horizontal canal is directed outwards towards the base of the petrous bone, and is shorter than the two preceding. It commences by an ampullary dilatation above the fenestra ovalis, and terminates near to the common canal. ■ The COCHLEA (so called from its resemblance to a snail's shell) is the most anterior part of the labyrinth, corresponding by its aj)ex with the anterior wall of the petrous bone, and by its base with the anterior depression at the bottom of the cul-de-sac of the meatus auditorius inter- nus. Its apex is arched so as to form a sort of dome, which is called the cupola. It consists of a gradually tapering canal, about one inch and a half in length, which makes two turns and a half around a cen- tral axis called the modio- Pig. 375.—Vertic.il section of the cochlea of a calf lus. The first coil projects showing the modiolus and scalse. into the tympanum, forming that rounded elevation which has already been descrilied as the promontonj. The central axis or modiolus is large near its base, where it corresponds to the first turn of the cochlea, but diminishes as it proceeds towards the apex. Its external surface is composed of dense tissue, but its interior is-spongy, and is pierced by numerous canals, which run spirally in its length, transmitting the filaments of the cochlear nerve. The central canal is usually larger than the others; it transmits the artery of the uaodiolus as well as a nerve, and is called tuhulua ceiitrnlu modioli. The interior of the canal of tlie cochlea is partially divided into two passages oi- scalse l)y means of a thin and porous lamina of bone, the lamina spiralis ossea, which is wound spirally round the modiolus in the direction of the canal. It extends about two-thirds