CERVICAL NERVES. 564 Anatomy gives tlie relation of the point of origin of each nerve to tlie bodies and tips of the spinous processes of the vertebrae :— Level of Body of No. of Nerve. Level of Tip of Spine of Level of Body of No. of Nerve. Level of Tip of Spine of C I = 1 3 4 5 6 7 Tl T 2 3 4 5 6 7 C I 2 3 4 5 6 7 D I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 c 2 C 3c 4c Sc 7c I U 2d 3d 4d Sd 6 d D 8 9 10 II l"'2 9 10 II 12 L I 2 3 4 5 S I 2 3 4 5 C I 7d 8d 9d 10 d 11 d j 12 d }: I CERVICAL NERVES. The cervical nerves increase in size from the first to the fifth, and then remain the same size to the eighth. The first (subocci^ntal) passes out of the spinal canal between the occipital bone and atlas; the second between the posterior ring of the atlas and the lamina of the axis ; and the last between the last cervical and first dorsal vertebra. Each nerve, at its escape from the intervertebral foramen, divides into an anterior and a j)osterior division. The anterior divisions of the four upper cervical nerves form the cervical plexus; the posterior divisions, the iwsterior cervical flexus. The anterior divisions of the four inferior cervical together with the first dorsal form the brachial plexus. ANTERIOR CERVICAL NERVES.—The anterior division of the first cervical or suboccipital nerve escapes from the .spinal canal through the gi'oove on the posterior arch of the atlas, which supports the vertebral artery, lying loeneath that vessel. It descends in front of the transverse process of the atlas, sends twigs to the occipito- atlantal joint, rectus lateralis and rectus anticus minor, and forms an anastomotic loop by communicating with an ascending branch of the second nerve. Branches froni this loop communicate witli the pneumogastric nerve, hypoglossal nerve, and superior cerviciil ganglion of the symjsathetic. The anterior cord of the second cervical nerve, at its exit from the intervertebral foramen between the atlas and axis, gi^^es twigs to the rectus anticus major, scalenus medius, and levator anguli scapulae, and divides into three bran dies : ascending branch, which