126 REGIONS OF THE SKULL. Its base hy the scaplioid lossa. The external plate is broad : the space between the two is the pterygoid fossa ; it contains part of the internal pterygoid muscle, and the tensor palati. Externally to the external pterygoid plate is the zygomatic fossa. Behind the nasal fossae, 111 the middle line, is the under surface of the bodv of the sphenoid, and the basilar process of the occipital bone, and still larther back, the foramen magnum. At the base of the external pterygoid plate on each side, is the foramen ovale, and behind thi^ the foramen siomosum with the prominent spine which gives attacli- ment to the long internal lateral ligament of tlie lower jaw and laxator tympani muscle. Eunnmg outwards from the apex of the spinous process of the sphenoid bone is the fissure of Glaser, which crosses Fig. I20.—External or basilar surface of the base of the skull, i, i. The hard palate. The figures are placed on the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones. 2. Inci- sive foramen. 3. _Palate process of the palate bone, near the figure palatine foramen the curved line The large opening is the posterior 4. Palate spine; upon which the the digastric fossa. 21. Mastoid process. Tjone. 23. Posterior condylar fossa. number rests is the transverse ridge. 5. Vomer, dividing the openings of the posterior nares. 6. Internal pterygoid plate. 7. Scaphoid fossa. 8. External pterygoid plate. The interval between 6 and 8 (right side of the figure) is the pterygoid fossa. 9. Zygomatic fossa. 10. Basilar pro- cess of the occii)ital bone. n. Fora- men magnum. 12. Foramen ovale. 13. Foramen .spinosum. 14. Glenoid fossa. 15. Meatus auditorius exter- nus. 16. Foramen lacerum medium. 17. The carotid foramen of the left side. 18. Jugular foramen. 19. Styloid process. 20. Srylo-mastoid foramen. The elevation just to the right of the number is the jugular tubercle ; and the groove to its left One of the condyles of the occipital the glenoid fossa trans^^ersely, and di^ddes it into an anterior smooth surface, bounded by the eminentia articularis, for the condyle of the lower jaAv, and a posterior rough surface for a jiart of the parotid gland. Behind the foramen ovale and sj)inosum is the irregular fissure between the sjiinous process of the sphenoid bone and the petrous portion of the temporal, the foramen lacerum basis cranii (called also foramen lacerum medium), which lodges the internal carotid artery, and in which the carotid branch of the Vidian nerve joins the carotid plexus. Following the direction of this fissure outwards, we see the foramen for the Eustachian tube, and that for the tensor tympani muscle, separated from each other by the pro- cessus cochleariforinis. Behind the fissure is the pointed process