254 ELEVATOR MUSCLES OF THE HYOID BONE. Third Group.—Elevators of the Os Hyoides. Digastricus, Genio-hyoid, Stylo-hyoid, Genio-hyo-gloBsiis. Mylo-hyoid, Dissection.—These are best dissected by placing a liigli block beneath tlie neck, and throwing the head backwards. Tlie integu- ment lias been already dissected away, and the removal of some areolar tissue and fat brings them clearly into view. The DIGASTRICUS {d\s, twice ; yaar^p, belly ; biventer) is a small muscle situated immediately beneatli the side of the body of the lower jaw ; fleshy at each extremity, and tendinous in the" middle. It arises from the digastric fossa and anterior border of the mastoid process of the temporal bone ; pierces by its posterior' belly the stylo-hyoid muscle, and is inserted into a depression on the inner side of the lower jeL^v, close to the symphysis. The middle tendon is held in connection with the Ijody of the os hyoides by an aponeu- rotic loop, through which it plays as through a pulley ; the loop being lubricated by a synoA'ial membrane. A thin layer of aponeu- rosis is given off from the tendon of the digastricus at each side, which is connected with the body of the os hyoides, and forms a strong jjlane of fascia between the anterior portions of the two muscles. This fascia, the siq^ra-hyoidean, is continuous with the^ deep cervical fascia. wM Relations.—By its suijerficial surface with the platysma myoides,^ sterno-mastoid, trachelo-mastoid, anterior fasciculus of the stylo- hyoid muscle, parotid gland, and submaxillary gland. By its detp surface with the styloid muscles, hyo-glossus, mylo-hyoid, external carotid artery, lingual and facial arteries, internal carotid artei y, jugular vein, and hypoglossal nerve. Nerve-supply.—The anterior belly of the digastric muscle is supplied by the mylo-hyoid nerve, a branch of the inferior maxil- lary ; the posterior belly by a branch of the facial. The STYLO-HYOID is a small and slender muscle situated in immediate relation with the posterior lielly of the digastricus, by which it is pierced. It arises from the middle of the styloid process, its outer side, and is inserted in the body of the os hyoides near the union of the lesser cornu with the body. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the posterior belly of the digastricus, parotid gland and submaxillary gland ; its deep rela- tions are similar to those of the posterior belly of the digastricus. Nerve-supply.—A branch of the facial. Dissection.—The digastricus and stylo-hyoid must be removed from their connection with the lower jaA\- and os hyoides, and turned aside, in order to see the next muscle. The MYLO-HYOID (fivXr], mola, i.e., attached to the molar ridge of the lower jaw) is a loroad and ti-iangular plane of muscular fibres, forming, with its fellow of the opposite side, the floor of the mouth.