CONVOLUTIONS AND SULCI. fissure. The anterior border of the parietal lobe is formed by the ascending parietal convolution, which, as mentioned above, bounds the fissure of Eolando posteriorly. The occipital lobe (o), of small size, forms the posterior termina- tion of the cerebrum ; it is imperfectly limited above by the parieto- occipital fissure, but laterally and below is united with the parietal and temporo-sphenoidal lobes by annectant convolutions. It con- tains three ill-defined convolutions placed horizontally, and named first (lo), second (ii), and third (12) occipital gyri. The temporo-sphenoidal or temporal lobe (t) fills up the middle fossa of the skull, and is the deepest-seated portion of the cerebrum. It is separated from the frontal lobe and anterior part of the parietal lobe by the fissure of Sylvius, but is united to the occipital and parietal lobes posteriorly. It is marked by three fissures, the first of which lies immediately below the posterior part of the fissure of Sylvius, and as it runs in the same direction is named the parallel fissure; the other two are called the middle and inferior temporo- sphenoidal fissures. The chief convolutions are three in number, first {ov infra-marginal) (7), second (8), and third (9), temporo-sphenoidal gyri. Below these, on the under surface of the brain, are two temporo- occipital convolutions, the outer of which, being wider in the middle than at either end, is named the fusiform lobule; the inner one is named the lingual lobule, and is contimious at its posterior part with the hippocampal convolution. The central lobe or island of Reil (c) is situated in the fissure of Sylvius, being co^^ered by the convolutions of the frontal, parietal, and temporo-sphenoidal lobes, more especially the lower end of as- cending j)arietal and ascending frontal, and the posterior extremity of the inferior frontal convolution, these together constituting the opercidum. It corresponds in position to the outer surface of the corpus striatum, as may be well seen in a vertical transverse section of the brain (see Fig. 314). It is divided into four or five small con- volutions {gyri operti) which radiate from the centre of its posterior l)order, the sulci between which lodge the di^dsions of the middle cerebral artery. The sulci which separate the central lobe from the rest of the hemisphere are known as the anterior, posterior, and external fissures of Reil. The annectant convolutions are four in number ; the first (a) joins the parietal to the upper part of the occipital lobe, the second 0) connects the angular gyrus of the parietal with the first con- volution of the occipital lobe, and the third (y) and fourth (8) connect the second and third temporal convolutions witlx the occi- pital lobe. The Inner Surface of the Hemisphere. By slicing off one hemisphere to the level of the corpus callosum, a side view of the opposite hemisphere will be obtained, but to com- plete the study of the inner surface of the hemisphere a complete vertical section of a hardened brain sliould be referred to.