PALATE BONES. 113 foramen is foxuid opening from tlie orbital surface into the teinporal fossa ; it transmits the temporal branch of the orbital nerve and tlie orbital branch of the temporal artery. The frontal ^;?'oce.ss ascends perpendicularly to form the outer border of the orbit, and articulates with the external angular process of the frontal bone. The orbital process is a thick plate, which pro- jects inAvards from the frontal process, and unites with the great wing of the sphenoid to constitute the outer wall of the orbit. The maxillary process is broad, and articulates with the superior maxil- lai-y bone. The zygomatic process, narrower than the rest, projects backwards to unite Avitla the zygoma of the tempoi'al bone. The jjostero-inferior border of the bone is strong and rough, and gives attachment by its internal aspect to the masseter muscle ; the postero-superior border is thin and sharp, for the attachment of the temporal fascia. Development.—By a single centre : in rare instances by two or three. In many animals the malar bone is permanently divided into two portions, orbital and malar. Ossification commences in the. malar l)one soon after the vertebrte. Articulations.-—With/o?tr bones : three of the cranium, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid ; and one of the face, superior maxillary. Attachment of Muscles.—To five: levator labii superioris pro- prius, zygomaticus minor and major, masseter, and temporal. PALATE BONES. The j^alate bones are situated at the posterior part of the nares, -where they enter into the formation of the palate, side of the nose, and posterior part of the floor of the orbit. Each bone resembles in general form the letter L, and is divisible into a horizontal plate, a perpendicular plate, and a pterygoid process or tuberosity. The horizontal plate is quadrilateral; and presents two surfaces, Fio. 113.—Posterior view of the right palate bone in its natural position ; it is slightly tuiued on one side, to obtain a sight of the internal surface of the perpendicular plate (2). I. Horizontal plate of the bone; its upper or nasal surface. 2. Perpendicular plate; its internal or nasal surface. 3, lo, 11. Pterygoid process or tuberosity. 4. Internal border of the liorizontal plate, which, articu- lating with the similar border of the opposite bone, forms the nasal crest for the reception of the vomer. 5. The pomted process, which, with a similar process of the opposite bone, forms the palate spine. 6. Inferior tur- Dinal crest. 7. Spheno-palatine notch. 8. Orbital portion. 0. bupenor turbiiial crest. 10. The smooth surface of the tuberosity, which enters into the formation of the ptery- goid fossa. The facets 11 and 3 articulate with the two pterygoid plates, n with the internal, 3 with the external. one superior, which enters into the formation of the floor of the nares, the other inferior, forming the posterior part of the hard palate. The superior surface is concave, and rises towards its inner H