ii6 VOMER. as to bear some reseml)lance to one valve of a Invalve shell; hence its designation, concha inferior. The internal or convex mrface looks inwards and upwards, and forms the inferior boundary of the middle meatus of the nose ; it is marked l)y one or two longitudinal grooves or canals for branches of the nasal nerves and spheno-palatine ai-tery. The external or concave surface looks downwards and outwards, and constitutes the roof of the inferior meatus. The anterior border looks u])wards and forwards, is thin and somewhat concave, and articulates with the inferior turl^inal crest of the superior maxillary and with the lachrymal bone. The inferior border is convex, rounded, and free, and thicker than the rest of the bone. The anterior angle, attached to the superior maxillary bone, advances forward irearly to the anterior margin of the nares. The -posterior angle, sharp and pointed, is prolonged backwards on the internal pterygoid plate. The superior angle gives origin to three thin and laminated jDrocesses. The most anterior of these, lachrymal process, derived from the upper part of the anterior border, articulates with the lachrymal bone; it is grooved on the external aspect and assists in completing the nasal duct. The posterior process, ethmoidal process, derived directly from the superior angle, articulates with the unciform process of the ethmoid bone ; the middle process, maxillary process, proceeding also from the superior border, is reflected downwards, and assists in completing the inner wall of the antrum, articulating with the superior maxillary and palate bones. Recognition.—If the bone be held with its convex lower edge directed downwards, and the end nearest to the groove for the nasal duct looking forwards, the maxillary process will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Development.—By a single centre, which appears at about the fifth month of foetal life. It aftbrds no attachment to muscles. Articulations.—With four bones : ethmoid, superior maxillary, lachryiual, and palate. VOMER. The vomer {vomer, a ploughshare) is a thin, quadrilateral plate of bone, forming the posterioi' and inferior part of the septum of the nares. . . The superior border is Ijroad and expanded, to articulate, m the middle, with the under surface of the body of the sphenoid ; it has projecting on each side a horizontal process or ala, by means of which it articulates Avith the vaginal processes of the sphenoid. The anterior part of this border is hollowed into a sheath for the recep- tion of the rostrum of the sphenoid. The inferior border is thm and uneven, and is received into the grooved summit of the palate crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones. The posterior border is sharp and free, and forms the posterior division ot