514 CEKEBRUM. at till! jiiuctiou of tliL! internal and uppej' surfaces a band ui white fibres will be noticed constituting tlie peduncle of the pinedl hody. Between the u])])er edge of tlic pulvinar and the peduncle of tlie pineal body is a triangular depi'cssion called trigonum hahmiihn. Anteriorly, the thalami are connected with the corpoi-a albicfintia by means of two white bands, which are the ternnnations of tli(- crura of the fornix. Externally, they are in relation with tlie corpoj striata and hemisplieres. In their interior the thalami are chiefly composed of grey matter arranged in three masses, tlie anterior, ex- ternal, and internal nuclei. Third Ventricle.—The third ventricle is the fissure between tlie two thalami optici, and is the remains of the anterior cerebral vesicle. It is bounded above by the under surface of the velum interposituni, from which are suspended the choroid plexuses of the third ven- tricle, and is separated by the velum from the body of the fornix. Its jloor is formed by the lamina cinerea, the tuber cinereurii, infundibuhim, corpora albicantia, and locus perfoi'atus posticus. Laterally, it is bounded by the thalami optici and peduncles of the pineal body ; anteriorly, by the anterior commissure and anterior crura of the fornix ; and posteriorly, by the posterior commissure and the aqueduct of Sylvius. The third ventricle is crossed by three commissures, anterior, middle, and posterior ; and communicates 11\ two openings, called foramen of Monro and aqueduct of Syhdus, with the lateral and fourth ventricles. The anterior commissure is a small rounded white cord, which connects tlie corpora striata of the two sides, and reaches the sub- stance of the hemispheres ; it lies immediately in front of the crura of the fornix, and is united by its anterior margin with the septuu. lucidum. The middle or soft commissure consists of grey sub- stance, which is continuous with the grey lining of the ventricle ; it connects the adjacent sides of the thalami optici. The posterior commissure, smaller than the anterior, is a flattened white cord, connecting the two thalami optici jjosteriorly ; it is j^laced beneath the peduncles of the pineal body near their origin, and has beneath it the aqueduct of Sylvius. The foramen of Monro is the medium of communication be- tween the two lateral and third ventricles, and transmits superiorly the choroid plexus and veins of the corj)US striatum. The aqueduct of Sylvius, or iter a tertio ad quartuvi ventricnlum, leads backwards beneath the posterior commissure and through the base of the corpora quadrigemina to the uj^per part of the fourth ventricle. Corpora Quadrigemina.—The corpora quadrigemina, or optic lobes, are situated immediately behind the third ventricle and i)OS- terior commissure, and beneath the posterior border of the corpus callosum. They form, indeed, at this point, the inferior boundary of the transverse fissure of the hemispheres. The anterior pair of these bodies, grey in colour, are named nates; the posterior pair, white and much smaller than the anterior, are termed testes. From