HUMERUS. 142 surface is a rounded protuberance, capitellum or eminentia cafitata, whicli articulates witli the cup-shapetl depression on the head of the radius ; tlie internal portion is a concave and pulley-like surface, trochlea, for articulation with the ulna. It will be noticed that the capitellum is limited to the anterior and lower aspect of the bone, and is not seen from behind, while the t)-ochlear surface is even more marked behind than in front; the latter is bounded on its inner side by a salient ridge. Projecting beyond the articular surface at each side are the external and interyial epicondyle, the latter being consider- ably the longer ; and running upwards from the epicondyles along the borders of the bone are the supracondylar ridges, of which the external is the most prominent. Immediately in front of the troch- lea is a small depression for receiving the coronoid process of the ulna during flexion of the fore-arm {coronoid fossa); and immedi- ately behind it a large and deep fossa, for containing the olecranon process during extension (oleci aiion fossa) ; above the trochlea is a small pit (radial fossa), which receives the anterior part of the head of the radius in complete flexion. The average length of the humerus is, in the male thirteen inches, and in the female twelve inches. Development.—By seven centres ; one for the shaft, one for the head, one for the tuberosities, one for the eminentia capitata, one for the trochlea, and one for each epicondyle, the internal preceding the external. Ossification commences in the shaft of the humerus in the eighth week ; in the head during the first year, and in the tubero- sities during the third year ; in the eminentia capitata and trochlea during the third and eleventh year ; and in the epicondyles during the fifth and fifteenth. At the time of birth the shaft is ossified, but the extremities are cartilaginous ; the centre for the head and that for the tuberosities unite during the fifth year. The entire bone is consolidated at twenty. Articulations.—With the glenoid cavity of the scai:)ula, the ulna, and radius. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty four: by the greater tubero- sity, supra-spinatus, infi'a-spinatus, and teres minor ; lesser t ubero- sity, subscapularis ; external bicipital ridge, pectoralis major ; internal bicipital ridge and groove, teres major and latissimus dorsi ; shaft, external and internal head of the triceps, deltoid, coraco-brachialis, and bracliialis anticus ; external supracondylar ridge and epicondyle extensors" and supinators of the fore-arm, \iz., supinator longus, extensor carpi radialis longior, extensor carpi radialis bre\aor, extensor communis digitorum, extensoi- minimi digiti, ex:tensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis ; internal epicondyle flexors and one pronator, viz., pronator radii teres, flexor carpi T-adialis, palmaris longus, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris.