SMALL INTESTINES. 734 numerously in the jejunum than in the ileum. They are alsso found in the large intestine. Peyer's Glands or patches (glandulse agminatas) are confined to the jejunum and ileum, heiug larger and more numerous in tln^ lower part of the latter. To the naked eye they appear as oval patches on the mucous membrane, of about from one to three inches in length, and about an inch in breadth. They are paler in colour than the surrounding memlirane, and are somewhat raised ahoxc the general level. They run in the direction of the length of the intestine, and are generally found on the side opposite to the attached border. On more close inspection they are found to be formed of u collection of solitary glands in cloi^e proximity to each other ; hence their name, "aggregate glands." The sur- face mucous membrane in whicli they are embedded is free from villi, and the Lieberkiihn follicles are ar- ranged in circles around each nodule. The patches vary from twenty to forty in number. Vessels of the Mucous Coat.— The distribution of the finer arterial vessels and capillaries in the mucous membrane of the intestinal canal, in relation to the glands, is worthy of attention. The small arteries divide into fine capillaries in the submucous coat; these fine capil- laries enter the spaces between the tubular glands, and form l\y their communications a plexu.s around the glands, in their cour.si' to the surface. Ha"\dng reached the surface of the mucous mem- brane, the capillaries beconic increased in size, and form a horizontal plexus around the apertures of the glands, and these larger caj)illaries, taking a reti'O- grade course, unite to form small venous trunks, by which the blood is returned to the venous circulation. Hence the glands are provided for their secreting function with fine capillaries, while tlie capillaries which contribute to the nutrition and secretion of the surface of the mucous membrane are of a coarser kind. Vessels and Nerves of the Alimentary Canal.—The arteries of the alimentai'y canal, as they supply the tube from above down- wards, are—the'pterygo-palatine, ascending pharyngeal, superior thyroid, and inferior thyroid, in the neck ; oesophageal in the thorax ; gastric, hepatic, splenic, superior and inferior mesenteric, in the abdomen ; and inferior mesenteric, internal iliac, and internal Fio. 447.—Vertical section of the in- testinal mucous membrane, bring- ing into view two Peyerian bodies. z. Villi. 1. Follicles of Lieberkiihn. c. Submucous coat, p, p. Peyerian nodules, one of them shown in sec- tion, the other not cut open. Fig. 448.—Circulation in the mucous mem- brane of the intes- tine. I. Artery. 2. Fine capillary net- work, proceeding from the artery and surroiTnding the tubular glands. 3. Superficial capillary network around the mouths of the tubu- lar glands. 4. Vein foi-med by the union of capillaries re- turning the blood of the superficial capillary network.