EPITHELIUM. 8 Fjg. 7.— Old epithelium cells from the mouth. 1. Squamous. 2. Columnar. 3. Glandular. 4. Transitional. 5. Ciliated. r. Squamous, Scaly, oi' Tesselated Epithelium is so called be- cause the cells appear as thin flattened scales ; they frecjuently have in their centre a small nucleus and nu- cleolus, which are of soft consistence ; the rest of the cell is more dense. In the surface cells of the epidei-mis the nu- cleus and nucleolus disappear, the cells being converted into thin plates of horny consistence. On the skin, the mucous membrane of the oral cavity, lower half of pharynx, ccsophagns, nasal duct, tympanic cavity, ^-agina, female ui-ethra, bladder, ureter, pelvis of the kidney, and on the conjunctiva of the eye they form the surface layer of a thick mass of cells, the deeper constituents of which are commonly sphei'oidal or fusiform in shape. The scales are somewhat larger in the mouth and fauces than elsewhere, and in longest diameter measure to of an inch ; in the vagina between ar^-n and ; and on the skin ^-Jq. The nucleus, which is round or oval in shape and flattened, measures in scales from the mouth 0^00 inch. In the deeji layers of a stratified epithelium, and especially in the rete mucosum of the skin, there are found numerous cells with fine fibres or spikes projecting from their edges ; they are called prickle-cells. The processes Y\G. 8.—Prickle of neighbouring cells are joined in such a manner as cells from reu to leave little canals or intercellular channels between viucomm. ^^^^^^^^ 2. Columnar or Cylinder Epithelium consists of cells which have an elongated or pyriform shape, their bases being directed to the free surface, and their Fio. g.—Portion of col- umnar epithelium from one of the villi of the small intestines. 1. Nu- cleus of the cell. 2. Basement membrane. apices to the basement membrane to which thev are attached. They are ranged side by side like columns, and are con- nected together 1)y a small amount of iiilercelbdar or cement si(b- stance. Each column contains near its middle a nucleus, which gives it a swollen appearance, and the nucleus possesses one or more nucleoli ; from the traiis]iarehcy of the column the nucleus may be seen through its base. This form of epithelium is found in the alimentary canal from the cardiac end of the stomach to the anus, in the intestinal glands, in the manimarv and lachrymal glands, in 8 0 0