531 TENTOKIUM AND FALX CEREBELLI. longitudinal sinus, and along the free edge the inferior longitudinal sinus, these vessels being situated between the two layers of which the membrane is composed. The tentorium cerebelli {te7iiorium, a tent) is a root of dura mater (raised in the centre and sloping down at the sides) thrown across the cerebellum and attached at each side to the margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; behind, to the transverse ridge of the occipital bone which lodges the lateral sinuses ; and m front to the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone and to the anterior and posterior clinoid processes. It supports Fig. 317.—Sinuses and membriines of the brain (side view), i. Superior longitudinal sinus. 2. Falx cerebri. 3. Fifth nerve. 4. Inferior longitudinal sinus. 5. Fourth nerve. 6. Vense Galeni. 7. Third nerve. 8. Tentoriuni cerebelli. g. Second nerve. 10. Straight sinus. 11. Crista galli of ethmoid. 12. Torcular Herophili. 13. First nerve. 14. Falx cerebelli. 15. Sixth nerve. 16. Eighth, ninth, and tenth nerves. 17. Seventh and eighth nerves. 18. Vertebral artery. 19. Eiistachiixn tube. 20. First cervical nerve. 21. Twelfth iierve. 22. Posterior root of second cervical nerve. 23. Anterior root of second cervical nerve. 24. Ligamentum denticulatum. the posterior lobes of the cerebrum and prevents their pressure on the cerebellum, leaving a small opening anteriorly {swperior occipital foramen), for the transmission of the crura cerebri. Its attached bor- der contains the lateral and superior petrosal sinuses, and the junction between it and the falx cerebri is channelled by the straight sinus. The falx cerebelli is a small process, generally double, attached to the vertical ridge of the occipital bone beneath the lateral sinus, and to the tentorium. It lodges the occipital sinuses and is received into the indentation between tlie two hemispheres of the cerebellum. Removal of the Brain.—The tentorium and falx cerebelli cannot