93 FEONTAL BONE. at the inner tliivd of tliis ridge is a notch, sometimes conveL'ted into a foramen—the supraorbital notch, wliich gives passage to the supra- orbital artery, veins, and nerve. Between the two superciliary ridges is a projection, the glabella; this portion of the bone denotes by its prominence the situation of the frontal sinuses. Extending upwards and backwards from the external angular process is a sharij ridge, the commencement of the temporal crest, and beneath the ridge a depressed surface, forming part of the temporal fossa, and giving attachment to the temporal muscle. The orbito-nasal portion of the bone consists of two thin processes, the orbital plates, which form the roof of the orbits, and an interven- ing notch which lodges the ethmoid bone, and is called the ethmoidal fissibve. The edges of the ethmoidal fissure are hollowed into cavities, Avhich, by their union with the ethmoid bone, complete the eth- moidal cells. Crossing these edges transversely are two small grooves, which are converted into canals by articulation with the ethmoid : these are the anterior and posterior internal orbital (or ethmoidal) canals; they open on the inner wall of the orbit,—the anterior transmitting the anterior ethmoidal vessels and nasal nerve, the posterior giving passage to the posterior ethmoidal vessels. At the anterior termination of these edges are the irregular openings which lead into the frontal sinuses ; and between the two internal angular j)rocesses is a rough excavation which receives the nasal bones, and a projecting process, the nasal spine. On each orbital plate, imme- diately beneath the external angular process, is a shallow depression which lodges the lachrymal gland ; and beneath the internal angular process a small pit {trochlear fossa), sometimes a tubercle, to which the cartilaginous pulley of the superior oblique muscle of the eye is attached. Internal Surface.—Along the middle line of this surface is a grooved ridge, the edges of the ridge giving attachment to the falx cerebri, the groove lodging the superior longitudinal sinus. At the commencement of the ridge is an opening, sometimes completed by the ethmoid Ijone, t\\e foramen ccecum: This opening lodges a process of the dura mater, and occasionally gives passage to a small vein which communicates with the nasal veins. On each side of the vertical ridge are some slight depressions which lodge the Pacchio- nian bodies, and branching grooves for meningeal vessels. There are also numerous shallow depressions called digital fossm, which correspond with the convolutions of tlie anterior lobes of the cerebrum ; these are especially distinct on the orbital plates. The superior bonier is thick and strongly serrated, bevelled at the expense of the internal table in the middle, where it rests on the junction of the two parietal, and at the expense of the external table on each side where it receives the lateral pressure of those bones. The inferior border is thin, irregular, and squamous, and articulates with the sphenoid bone. Development.—By tioo centres, one for each lateral half, which appear in the orbital arches about the seventh week. Tlie two