CARPUS. TEAPEZOID.—This bone is small, oblong, quadrilateral, and bent near its middle. Its dorsal surface is wide and convex, its palmar very narrow and flattened. It has four articular surfaces sepa- rated by slight ridges ; the proximal of these is quadrilateral, and articulates with the scaphoid ; the distal one is saddle-shaped for the second metacai'pal bone ; the internal surface is smooth and concave for the os magnum, and the external is convex for the trapezium. Recognition.—Hold the bone with the narrow free surface up- wards, and the saddle-shaped surface looking forwards ; the convex articular surface will point to the appropriate hand. Articulations.—With four bones : trapezium, os magnum, sca- phoid, and second metacarpal. Attachment of Muscles.—Part of the flexor brevis poUicis. OS MAGNUM.—This is the largest bone of the carpus ; it is divisible into a head or proximal, and a body or distal extremity. The rounded head articulates by its proximal and external surfaces with the semilunar and scaphoid l)ones. Its palmar and dorsal sur- faces are Ijoth roiTgh; the latter l)eing square and flat, the formej" I'ounded and prominent. Its distal extremity is divided into three small facets for articulation with the second, third, and foi;rth metacarpal bones ; its internal surface is rough distally for an interosseous ligament, smooth ])roximally for articulation ^\'ith the unciform. By its external surface it articulates by means of a small facet with the trapezoid, and proximal to this facet is a rough space for another interosseous ligament. The proximal articular surface encroaches on the external surface but not on the internal, so that the formei' is easily identified by this j^eculiarity. Recognition.—If the bone be held with the flat and rougli dorsal surface downwards, and the liead directed backwards, the side of the head on to which the proximal articular facet is continued will point to the appropri- ate hand. Articulations.—With seven bones: scaphoid, semilunar, trapezoid, unci- form, and the second, third, and fourth metacarpal bones. Fin. 136.—Left hand viewed on its anterior or p.ilmar aspect. i. !Scaphoid bone. 2. Semilunar. 3. Cuneifoini. 4. Pisiform. 5. Jrapezium. 6. Groove in the trapezium which lodges the ten- don of the flexor carpi radialis. 7. Trapezoid. 8. Os magnum. Q. Unciform. 10, jo. The five metacarpal bones. 11, 11. First row of phalanges. 12, 12. Second row. 13, 13. Third row, or un- gual phalanges. 14. First pha- lanx of the thumb. 15. Second and last phalanx of the thumb.