CARPUS. 149 the concave border will point to the hand to which the bone ^^Articulations—With the cuneiform bone only. Attachment of Muscles.—To two : flexor carpi ulnans, and abductor minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament, TRAPEZIUM.—This bone may be distinguished by a deep groove for the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis muscle, and by the saddle- shaped distal articular facet. Its 'palmar surface is marked by this f^roove and by a prominent tubercle which overhangs it, which gives attachment to the abductor, flexor brevis, and flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis muscles, and to the anterior annular ligament. The proximal extremity of the trapezium has a facet for articulation with the scaphoid, and its distal extremity one of large size, concave from side to side, convex from above downwards, for articulation with the metacarpal'bone of the thumb. Internally it presents two articular facets—the upper, large and concave, for the trapezoid ; the lower, small and flat, for the extremity of the second metacarpal bone. Fig. 133.—Bones of the carpus of the right hand, separated so as to show the form of tlie individual bones, s. Sc;iplioid: the letter is placed over the surface which articulates with the radius, i. Its dorsal sur- face. 2. Surface to articulate with the trapezium and trapezoid, the two facets divided by a ridge. 3. Concave articulating surface for the head of the os magnum, l. Semi- lunar : the letter is placed over the surface which articulates with tlic I'adius. 4. Surface to articulate with the scaphoid. 5. Surface to arti- 6. Border of the surface which articulates Surface to articulate with tlie semilunar. 8. Surface to articulate with tlie xiiiciform. p. Pisiform, g. Articular facet. T. Trapezium : tlie letter is placed on the stn-face which articulates with the sca- phoid. TO. Surface to articulate with tlie trapezoid. 11. Articulating surface for the metacarpal bone of the index finger. 12. Articulating surlace for the meta- carpal bone of the thumb, tz. Trapezoid. 13. Articulating surface for the sca- phoid. 14. Articulating surface for the OS magnum, m. Os magnimi : the letter is placed on the head of the bone. 15. Rough surface of the dorsum of the bone. 16. Articulating surface for the unciform. 17. Articulating surface for the meta- carpal bone of the middle finger, u. Unciform : the letter is placed on the surface which articulates with the semilunar and cuneiform. 18. Articulating surface for the ring finger. 19. Articulating surface for the little finger. 20. Rough point forming part of the free border of the carpus. Its dorsal and external surfaces are rough for ligamentous attach- ments. Recognition.—If the bone be held with the grooved surface up- wards, and the surface with two facets forwards, the saddle-shaped surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With four bones : scaphoid, trapezoid, and two first metacarpals. Attachment of Muscles.—To three: abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, and flexor ossis metacarpi poUicis. culate with the head of the os magnum, with the unciform, c. Cuneiform. 7