539 FOUKTH AND FIFTH NERVES. FOURTH PAIR—PATHETICI (trochlearis). The fourtli is the smallest cerebral nerve ; it arises from a nucleus beneath that of the third nerve in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius ; it passes across the outer border of the ^'alve of Vieussens, and wind- ing around the crus cerebri to the extremity of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, pierces the dura mater below the third nerve, and passes forward in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus to the sphenoidal fissure. In its course in the outer wall of the sinus it is situated at first below the motor oculi, but afterwards ascends and becomes the highest of the ner\'es entering tlie orbit by the sphenoidal fissure. On entering the orbit the nerve crosses the levator palpe- brae muscle near its origin, and is distributed on the orbital surface of the superior oblique or trochlearis muscle; hence its synonym trochlearis. The fibres of origin of the two nerves communicate with each other, forming a kind of commissure, on the ujjper surface of the valve of Vieussens. Branches.—Wliile in the cavernous sinus the fourth nerve gives off a recurrent branch, and sends a branch of communication to the ophthalmic nerve ; the recurrent brcmch, consisting of sympathetic filaments derived from the carotid plexus, passes backwards between the layers of the tentorium, and divides into two or three filaments, which are distributed to the lining membrane of the lateral sinus. FIFTH PAIR.—TRIFACIAL (trigeminus). The fifth nerve, the great sensitive nerve of the head and face, and the largest cranial nerve, is analogous to the spinal nerves in its origin by two roots from the anterior and posterior columns of the spinal cord, and in the existence of a ganglion on the posterior root. It arises, or rather makes its appearance at the surface of the brain, on the anterior part of the lateral and constricted jjortion of the pons Varolii, and consists of a large and small fasciculus, separated by a narrow interspace, the larger fasciculus being the jwsterior or sensory root; the smaller one, the anterior or motor root. The sensory root is composed of from seventy to a hundred filaments each enclosed in a sheath of pia mater, and the entire bundle is bound together into a single nerve and connected with the motor root by a sheath of arachnoid membrane. The nerve then passes through an oval opening in the border of the tentorium, near the extremity of the petrous hone, and spreads out into a large semilunar ganglion, the Gasserian. If the ganglion be turned over, it will be seen that the anterior root lies against its under surface without having any connection with it, and may Ije followed onwards to the inferior maxillary nerve. The Gasserian ganglion divides into three branches—ophthalmic, superior maxillary, and inferior maxillary. Deep Origin.—The motor root arises'(i) from a nucleus in the