6 LYMPH AND CHYLE. as migrator 1/ or wander cells. The white corpuscles are l)y soiiie observers regarded as an early stage of the red corjniscles. In addition to the red and white corpuscles of the 1)lood, other solid particles have been described under the name of hmmatoblasts by Hayem, and of hlood-iolatelets by Bizzozero. They are found in the midst of the interlacing threads of fil)rin in clot, after washing awav the corpuscles, as minute, round, colourless, disc-like jmrticles, gene- rally aggregated into masses. They have also been observed in the living blood in the smaller vessels of the rat's mesentery; their exact nature is uncertain. The Liquor Sanguinis, or Plasma of the blood, is composed of serum, and of two fibrin-factors which unite when the Ijlood is drawn from the body to form fibrin, and thus determine the coagulation of the blood. Tlie serum is the liquor .sanguinis deprived of its fibrin ; it has a specific gravity of 1.027, alkaline in reaction, and contains albumen, salts, fatty matter, gases, and sugar. Fibrin is formed by the union of two fibrin-factors, called fibrino- plastin and fibrinogen. Fibrinoplastin, or paraglobulin, is in j)art contained in the white corpuscles, and in part held in solution in the liquor sanguinis ; it can be precipitated from the liquor san- guinis, in the form of a white powder, l)y diluting that fluid with ten times its bulk of ice-cold water, and then passing a stream of CO., through it. Fibrinogen is held in solution in the liquor san- guinis, and can be also thrown down as a white powder by a more copious dilution, and a more complete saturation with COo than is requisite to precipitate fibrinoplastin. The combination of these factors is brought about by means of a third substance called the fibrin-ferment. Fibrin can lie obtained from fresh blood by whipping it with twigs, as fine fibrils of a pale straw-colour, which are in- soluble in water, alcohol, or ether. Gases of the Blood.—The blood contains a very large volume of gases, jmrtly in combination, partly free. These are Carlwnic Acid, Nitrogen, and Oxygen. They differ in their proportion in arterial and venous blood, as shown in the following table :— Oxygen. Carbonic Acid. Nitrogen. Vols. Vols. Vols. Arterial blood . . 16 30 i to 2 Venous blood . . 6 to 10 35 i to 2 The oxygen is for the most part in loose combination \yith the haemoglobin of the red corpuscles ; the carbonic acid is in com- bination with the salts of the serum, especially with the salts of sodium ; the nitrogen is suspended in the liquor sanguinis. LYMPH AND CHYLE. Lymph is a nearly colourless, transparent fluid, contuined in a special system of vessels called lymphatics or absorbents. The lym- phatics of the small intestine carry, during digestion, a milky fluid