KNEE-JOINT. 217 anterior part of the condylar notch, and, by its base, is lost m the mass of fat Avhich projects into the joint beneath the patella. The alar ligaments are two fringed folds of synovial membrane, extending from the ligamentum mucosum, along the edges ol the mass of fat, to the sides of the patella. . . . , . ,1 , The synovial membrane of the knee-jomt is by far the most extensive in the bod v. It commences near the margins of the carti- laginous surfaces of the condyles of the femur, it covers botli surfaces of the semilunar fibro-cartilages, and is reflected upon the crucial ligaments, and inner surface of the ligaments which form the circum- ference of the joint. On each side of the patella it lines the capsular Fig. 176.—Longitudinal section of the left knee- joint, showing the reflections of its synovial membrane, i. Cancellous structure of the lower part of the femur. 2. Tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg. 3. Patella. 4. Ligamentum patellae. 5. Cancellous struc- ture of the head of the tibia. 6. A bursa situated between the ligamentum patellas and head of the tibia. 7. Mass of fat project- ing into the ca-vity of the joint below the patella. ** The synovial membrane. 8. The pouch of synovial membrane which ascends between the tendon of the extensor muscles of the leg and front of the lower extremity of the femur. 9. One of the alar ligaments; the other has been removed with the opposite .section. 10. Ligamentum mucosum left en- tire ; the section being made to its inner side. 11. Anterior or external crucial ligament. 12. Posterior ligament. ligament, and forms a pouch of considerable size between the extensor tendon and front of the femur ; it passes upwards for fully two inches above the patella, and is supported and raised during the movements of the limb by a small muscle, the subcrureiis, which is inserted into it. It also forms the folds in the interior of the joint, called " ligamentum mucosum " and " ligamenta alaria." Between the ligamentum patellae and synovial membrane is a considerable mass of fat, which presses the membrane towards the interior of the joint, and occupies the fossa between the condyles. Actions.—The knee-joint is one of the strongest of the articula- tions of the body, while, at the same time, it admits of the most perfect degree of movement in the direction of flexion and extension. During flexion the articular surface of the tibia glides forward on the condyles of the femur ; the lateral ligaments, the posterior ligament, and the anterior crucial ligament are relaxed ; while the ligamentum patella; being on the stretch, serves to press the adipose mass behind it into the vacuity formed in the front of the joint. In complete flexion the posterior crucial ligament is rendered tense,