HEART. 659 in a tubular form, and at length becomes lost in their outer coat. The vessels which are partly covered by it are eight in number, namely, the aorta, superior vena cava, four pulmonary veins, and right and left divisions of the pulmonary artery. The serous mem- brane invests the heart with the commencement of its great vessels as high as the arch of the aorta, and is then reflected upon the in- ternal surface of the fibrous layer. The aorta and loulmonary artery are contained in the same tube of pericardium, having been formed by the division of the primitive aorta ; it will consequently be foimd impossible to pass anything between them. Where the serous layer is reflected from the heart on to the bloodvessels, it forms a series of pouches, the largest of which, called the great oblique sinus, is situated between the inferior cava on the right and the left inferior pul- monary vein. Another, but narrower, pouch runs between the aorta and imlmonary artery above, and the sujierior cava and superior pulmonary vein l^elow, and is called the transverse simis. A crescentic fold of pericardium is found lying across the front of the upper left pulmonary vein ; it is called the vestigial fold, and contains the remains of the left sujoerior vena cava. In intimate structure the fibrous layei- is composed of strong interlacing fibres, the serous layer consisting of a thin stratum of elastic tissue disposed in a network, adherent by one surface to the fibrous layer, and smooth on the free surface, where it gives support to a single or double lamina of tesselated endothelium. The bag of the pericardium has few vessels and nerves, the latter being derived from the phrenic and recurrent branch of the right pneumogastric. The pericardium is connected with the sternum by two weak fibrous bands, the superior and inferior sterno-jjericardiac ligaments; it is further steadied and fixed by its connection with the central tendon of the diaphragm below, and the thoracic and deep cervical fasciae above. HEART. The heart is placed obliquely in the chest, the base being directed upwards and backwards towards the right shoulder, and correspond- ing to the mterval between the fifth and eiglitli dorsal vertebrte • the cqoex forwards and to the left, pointing to the space between the fifth and sixth rib, at about two and a half inches from the sternum. Its posterior or under side is flattened, and rests on the tendinous portion of the diaphragm ; its anterior side is rounded and convex-; the lower or right border is thin {margo acutios) and longer than_ the left border; tlie latter is formed by the left ven- tricle, and IS thick and rounded (marqo obtusus). The heart is divided by a deep transverse groove, auriculo^ventricular ciroovr into an upper or auricular, and a lower or ventricular portion- in the latter, a less distinct and shallower gi'oove, runs from base to apex both on the front and back, interventricular groove, and marks out the right from the left ventricular cavity. In the auriculo-