ORBITAL MUSCLES. 234 4- Ocular Group.— Levatpr palpebrse, Rectus intenius, Rectus superior, Rectus externus, Rectus inferior, 01)liquus superior, Obliquus inferior. Dissection.—To open the orbit (the calvariuiu and brain liaving been removed) the fi-ontal bone must be sawn tlirougli at tlie inner extremity-of tlie orbital ridge, the saw being directed to the supra- OT'bital notch ; and, externally, at its outer extremity. The roof of the orl)it may then be comminuted with the liammer—a process easily accomplished, on account of the thinness of the orbital plate of tlie frontal bone and lesser wing of the sphenoid. The super- ciliary portion of the orbit may next be driven forwards hy a smart blow, and tlie external angular process and external wall of the orbit outwards in the same manner; the broken fragments of the I'oof of tlie orljit should then be removed. Remove the perios- teum from the whole of the upper surface of the exposed orlnt, and examine the parts beneath. Tlie LEVATOR PALPEBR.aE SUPERIORIS is a long, thin, and triangular muscle situated at the upper part of the orbit in the middle line ; it m-ises from the under surface of the lesser wing of tlie s})henoid, above and in front of the optic foramen, and is inserted into the upper bordei- of the superior tarsal plate by a bi-oad but thin tendon. Relations.—By its uj^i^er surface with the fourth nerve, supra- orbital nerve and artery, pei'iosteum of the orbit, and, in front, iniier face of the broad tarsal ligament. By its under surface it rests on the superior rectus, globe of the eye, and conjunctiva ; il j'eceives its nerve and artery by this aspect. NerV"e-supply.—Superior division of the third nerve. The RECTUS SUPERIOR arises from the upper margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous sheath of the optic nerve : and is inserted into the upper surface of the globe of the eye at a point somewhat more tliau three lines from tlie margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its uiTper surface with the levator palpebra? muscle ; by the uiuler surface with the optic nerve, ophthalmic artery and nasal nerve, and, in front, \\dtli the globe of the eye, the tendon of the superior oblicj^ue muscle being interj^osed. Nerve-supply.—Superior division of the third nerve. The RECTUS INFERIOR arises from the inferior margin of the optic foramen by a tendon (ligament of Zinn) which is common to it and the internal and external rectus, and from the fibrous sheath of the 02)tic nerve ; it is inserted into the infei'ior surface of the globe of the eye, a little more than two lines from the margin of the cornea. Relations.—By its upfer surface with the optic nerve, inferior ])ranch of the third nerve, adipose tissue of the orbit, and under