SERRATITS MAGNUS. clavius, and is stretched across from the cartilage of the first rib to the coracoid process. It becomes thinner as it passes doAvnwards, and may be traced to the upper edge of the pectoralis minor ; it encloses that muscle, and from its lower border is continued down- wards to join the axillary fascia and the fascia covering the short head of the biceps. Between the subclavius and pectoralis minor it covers in the first jmrt of the axillary artery, and is pierced by the cephalic vein, acromial thoracic artery and vein, superior thoracic artery and anterior thoracic nerves. The SUBCLAVIUS arises by a round tendon from the cartilage and adjacent osseous part of the first rib ; it is inserted into the under surface of the clavicle near the coraco-clavicular ligament. It lies in a groove on the inferior aspect of the clavicle. Relations.—By its upper surface with the clavicle. By the lotver with the subclavian artery and vein and brachial j)lexus, which separate it from the first rib. In front with the pectoralis major, the costo-coracoid membrane being interposed. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the fifth and sixth cervical. Actions.—The pectoralis major draws the arm across the thorax, while its upper fibres assist the upper part of the trapezius in raising the shoulder, as in supporting weights. The lower fibres dej^ress the shoulder with the aid of the latissimus dorsi. Taking its fixed point from the shoulder, the pectoralis major assists the pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus magnus in drawing up ancl expand- ing the chest. The pectoralis minor, in addition to this action, draws the coracoid process downwards and forwards, and rotates the scapula on the chest wall in such a manner as to direct the glenoid cavitv downwards. The subclavius draws the clavicle downwards and forwards, and thereby assists in steadying the shoulder. All the muscles of this group are agents in forced inspiration, but are in- capable of acting in that capacity until the shoulders are fixed. Lateral Thoracic Region. Serratus Magnus. The SERRATUS MAGNUS (serratus, indented like the edge of a saw), In-oad, thin, and trapezoid in shape, arises by nine fleshy serra- tions from the eight upper ribs (two of the serrations being attaclied to the second rib), and extends backwards upon the side of the chest to be_ inserted into the whole length of the base of the scapula its anterior aspect. In structure, the muscle is composed of three por- tions : superior, formed l)y the first and second serrations and inserted into the inner sui'face of the superior angle of the scaiuila ; middle. composed of the third and fourth serrations and inserted into the gi-eater part of the posterior border ; inferior, consisting of the last hve serrations : these latter interdigitate with the oblinuus externus ancl torm a thick muscular fasciculus, which is