455 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATEE. middle line, and is named the torcular Herophili. It is con- tinuous with the lateral sinus of the same side, and communicates, by a transverse channel, with the commencement of the lateral sinus of the opposite side. The inferior longitudinal sinus is situated in the free margin of the falx cerebri; it is cylindrical in form, and extends from near the crista galli to the anterior border of the tentorium, where it termi- 2iates in the straight sinus. It receives in its course several veins from the falx and sometimes one or two from the internal surface of the hemispheres. The straight sinus is the sinus of the tentorium ; it is situated at the line of union of the falx with the tentorium ; is prismoid in form, and extends across the tentorium, terminating by bending outwards in a direction opposite to that taken by the superior Fig. 275.—Sinuses of the upper and back part of the skull. I. Superior longitudinal sinus. 2, 2. Superior cerebral veins opening into the sinus from behind for- wards. 3. Falx cerebri. 4. Inferior longitudi- nal sinus. 5. Straight sinus. 6. Vense Galeni. 7. Torcular Herophili. 8. The lateral sinuses, with the occipital sin- uses between them, g. The termination of the inferior petrosal sinus of one side. io..'Bulbs of the internal jugular veins, corresponding with the j ugular fossae. 11. Internal jugular veins. longitudinal sinus, and forming the lateral sinus of that side. Besides the inferior longitudinal sinus it receives the vence Galeni, the cerebral veins from the inferior part of the posterior lobes, and the superior cerebellar veins. The circular sinus is situated in the sella turcica, surrounding the pituitary body ; it consists of an anterior and posterior portion, the former being usually the larger. It receives veins from the pituitary body, the dura mater and the bone, and forms a communi- cation between the two cavernous sinuses. The transverse or basilar sinus consists of a plexus of veins lying on the basilar portion of the occipital bone. It communicates with the two inferior petrosal sinuses, and with the anterior spinal veins. The occipital sinuses are two canals of small size, situated at the back of the foramen magnum ; as they ascend they unite to form a