732 SMALL INTESTINES. The villi are little conical or club-shaped projections, about om- fourth of a line in length. They are confined to the small intes- tine, and are so thickly set, especially at the upper part of tlie tuljc. that they resemble the nap of velvet, and give rise to tlie villous or velvety appearance presented by a well-washed piece of intestiiic suspended in water. They are lai-gest and most numerous in tin- duodenum and jejunum, and number from lo to i8 to the sfpiaic milliuietre ; they are fewer and less numerous in flie ileum, beiii;,' only 8 to 14 to the millimetre. In structure each villus consists of a process of the basement membrane, which is covered with a layer of columnar epithelial cells. In its interior are contained a network of capillaries, lymphoid tissue, connectiAe tissue, and a small lacteal vessel, the lattei' being the agent for the selective absorp- tion of nutriment. The lacteal lies in the centre, and has connected with it the cells of the lymphoid tissue, which again lie in contact with the basement membrane, through which they are in immediate rela- tion with the epithelial cells. Through this channel the nutritive materials taken tiji by the epithelial cells are transmitted to the lacteal, though in what precise method has not yet been determined. Each -vallus contains some fibres of unstriped muscle prolonged into it from the musciUaris mucosae. Lieberkiilin's follicles are minute tubules about 2V ^ ^^^^ length, somewhat like the gastric follicles, but smaller. They are found all over the surface of the small intestine, between the villi, and forming circles roimd the nodules of Peyer's patches. They are — Au iutestinrii composcd of an involution of the ba.se- fl,«, cf. Columnar ment membrane, and their epithelium is columnar. Brunner's Glands. — These racemose or lobulated glands are small yellowish each surrounded by a small cai)sule of i Fio. 443 villus. epitheliuiB. b, b. Capill.iry network, c, c. Longitu- dinal muscular bundles. d. Lymphatic capillary. and flattened glands, ., - v areolar tissue, and situated in the submucous coat of the ah- mentary canal. They are identical in structure with the race- mose glands of the mouth, and open on the surface of the mucous membrane by means of an excretory duct. They are confined to the duodenum, extending from the pylorus, Avhere they are most abundant, to the entrance of the ductus communis choledochus. \ on Brunn com]iared them to a second pancreas, and after liim_they liave been named iir«?mer'.s glands or duodenal glands. Their ayenige size is a quarter to half a line, and they secrete a cleai- alkalnie