I30 NASAL FOSSAE. Each nasal fossa is divided into three irregular longitudinal pas- sages, or meatuses, by three processes of Ijone, wliich ])roject from its outer wall—the superior, middle, and inferior turbinated hone ; the superior and middle turbinated bone being processes of the ethmoid ; the inferior, a distinct bone of the face. The superior meatus oc- cupies the superior and posterior part of each fossa ; it is situated between the superior and middle turbinated bone, and has o]jening into it two foramina—viz., foramen of the posterior ethmoidal celLs, and spheno-palatine foramen. The sphenoidal sinuses usually open into the upper part of the nasal fossae, immediately behind tlie superior turbinated bone. The middle meatus is the space between Fig. 121.—Longitudinal section of the nasal fossae made immediately to the right of the middle line, the bony septum removed in order to show the external wall of the left fossa. 1. Frontal bone. 2. Nasal bone. 3. Crista gulli. The groove between i and 3 is the lateral boundary of the foramen caecum. 4. Cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 5. Sphenoidal cells. Bones 2, 4, and 5 form the supe- rior bouudarj' of the nasal fossa. 6. Basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. 7, 7. Palate process of supe- rior maxillary bone. The groove between 7, 7, is the lateral half of the incisive canal, and the dark aperture in the groove the inferior termination of the left naso-pala- tine canal. 8. Nasal spine. 9. Palate process of palate bone. a. Superior turbinated bone. b. Su- perior meatus, c. A probe passed into the posterior ethmoidal cells, d. Opening of the sphenoidal cells into the superior meatus, e. Spheno-palatine foramen. /. Middle turbinated bone, g, g. Middle meatus, li. A probe passed into the in- fundibulum leading from the frontal sinuses and anterior ethmoidal cells; the triangular aperture immediately above the letter is the opening of the antrum. i. Inferior turbinated bone, k, k. Inferior meatus. I, I. A probe passed up the nasal duct, showing the diiection of that canal, m. Internal pterygoid plate. n. Its hamular process. 0. External pterygoid plate, p. Root of pterygoid processes. q. Posterior palatine foramina. 7-. Roof of the left orbit, s. Optic foramen. t. Groove for the last turn of the internal carotid artery converted into a carotico- clinoid foramen, v. Sella turcica, z. Posterior clinoid process. the middle and inferior turbinated bone ; it also jjresents two fora- mina, the opening of the infundib^dum (the common ojieniiig of the anterior ethmoidal cells and frontal sinus), and of the antrum. The largest of the three passages is the inferior meatus, which is the space between the inferior turbinated l)one and tlie floor of the nasal fossa ; in it there are two foramina, the termination of the nasal duct, and the opening of the anterior palatine canal. In the recent state the Eustachian tube looks forward into the nares, and opens into the pharyn.x just behind the inferior meatus. The nasal fossa; commence upon the face by a large irregular opening, the anterior nares, and terminate posteriorly in the tAvo posterior nares.