221 ANKLE-JOINT. relation with the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor lonsjus hallucis. . „ . The external lateral ligament consists of three strong fasciculi which proceed from the inner side of the external malleolus, and radiate in three different directions. The anterior fasciculus passes forward to be attached to the astragalus ; the posterior, backward, to be connected with the astragalus posteriorly ; and the middle, longer than the other two, descends to be inserted into the outer side of the 03 calcis. J 1 ii • The posterior ligament consists of a few scattered and tlim fibres which are attached above to the external malleolus, the back part of the lower end of the tibia, and to the posterior inferior tibio- fibular ligament, and below to the posterior surface of the astragalus, from the'external to the internal lateral ligaments. The synovial membrane is reflected upon the anterior and lateral Fig. 179.—Ligaments of outer side of ankle and foot. i. Anterior-inferior tibio- fibular ligament. 2. Middle fasciculus of external lateral ligament of ankle. 3. Anterior fasciculus. 4. External calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. 5. External calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. 6. Interosseous calcaneo-astragaloid ligament. 7. Superior astragalo-scaphoid ligament. 8. External calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 9. Superior scaplio-cuneiform ligament. 10. Internal calcaneo-cuboid ligament. II. Dorsal ligament between external and middle cuneiform. 12. Dor.^al ligament between scaphoid and cuboid. 13. Dorsal ligament between external cuneiform and third metatarsal. 14. Dorsal ligament between cuboid and fifth metatarsal. 15. Dorsal ligament between middle cuneiform and second metatarsal. 16. Dorsal ligament between cuboid and third and fourth metatarsals. 17, 18, ig, 20. Dorsal ligaments between bases of metatarsal bones. ligaments, and on tlie transverse and posterior ligaments behind ; it also sends a fold upwards between the tibia and fibula. Actions.—The movements are mainly those of^ea;io?i and extension, the latter being accompanied by a slight inward movement of the toes, in consequence of the outer border of the articular surface of the astragalus being longer than the inner. Both the cupped lower end of the tibia and the corresponding surface of the astragalus are wider in front than behind ; hence, in complete extension the narrow part of the latter comes to occupy the wide part of tlie former,