686 THYROID BODY, in operations on the trachea. The lobes are somewhat conical in| shape, being larger below than above, and the smaller end is con- tinued upwards to the side of the thyroid cartilage. The isthmus isl connected with the lower third of the two lolies, and often gives origin to a process of variable length and size, called the pyramid or third lobe. The pyramid is generally situated on the left side of the isthmus, and is often derived from the left lobe ; it is fre- quently connected with the hyoid bone by a muscular Vjand, which receives the name of levator glandulce thyroidece. The left lobe is somewhat smaller than the right, the weight of the entire body Ijeing about one ounce and a half. It is, however, larger in young persons and females than in adult males, and undergoes a slight increase during menstruation. Its peruianent enlargement consti- tutes bronchocele, goitre, or the Derbyshire neck. Structure.—The structure of the thyroid is of a brownish-red colour, and is composed of a dense aggregation of minute and inde- pendent membranous cavities or vesicles en- closed by a plexus of capillary vessels, and connected together by areolar tissue. The vesicles are composed of a basement membrane lined by a columnar cinthelium of nucleated cells, and contain a clear yellowish fluid, in which are found cells; the latter measuring jJqq of an inch in diameter. Vessels and Nerves. —It is abundantly sup- plied with blood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. Some- times an additional ar- tery is derived from the arteria innominata, and ascends upon the front of the trachea to be distributed to the gland. The nerves are derived from the superior laryngeal and from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sym])athetic. The lymphatics are very numerous, and origi- nate for the most part in the connecti\'e tissue forming the stroma of the organ. THE LUNGS. The luugs are two conical oi-gans, situated one at each side of the chest, embracing the heart, and separated from each otlier by that organ.and by an interspace, the mediastinum. On the external or F:g. 400.—structure of the thyroid body. a. Con- nective-tissue stroma, h. Basement membrane, c. Epithelial cells.