474 LYMPHATICS. LYMPHATICS. Lymphatic vessels admit of a threefold division, into superficial, deep, and lacteals. The superficial li/mphatic vessels, on the surface of the body, follow the course of the veins, and pierce the deep fascia in convenient situations, to join the deep lymphatics. On the surface of organs they converge to the nearest lymphatic trunks. The superficial lymphatic glands are placed in the most protected situations of the superficial fascia, as in the hollow of the ham and groin in the lower extremity ; on the inner side of the arm in the upper extremity. The deep lymphatics, fewer in number and somewhat larger than the superficial vessels, accompany the deeper veins ; those from the lower parts of the body converging to the numerous glands seated around the iliac veins and inferior vena cava, and terminating in a large trunk situated on the vertebral column, the thoracic duct. From the upper part of the trunk of the body on the left side, and from the left side of the head and neck, they also proceed to the thoracic duct. Those on the right side of the head and neck, right upper extremity, and right side of the thorax, form a distinct duct which terminates at the point of junction of the subclavian with the internal jugular vein on the right side of the root of the neck. The lacteals are the lymphatic vessels of the small intestines ; they have received their distinctive appellation from conveying the milk-like product of digestion, the chyle, to the great centre of the lymphatic system, the thoracic duct. They are situated in the niesentery, and open into the numerous mesenteric glands in their course. When digestion is not proceeding they carry transparent lymph, like the other lymphatics. The lymphatic vessels and glands will be described according to the arrangement adopted for the veins, commencing with those of the head and neck, and proceeding next to those of the upper extremity, lower extremity, and trunk. LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Glands.—The superficial lymphatic glands of the head and face are small, few in number, and isolated ; they are—the occipital, which are situated near the origin of the occipito-frontalis muscle ; posterior auricular, behind the ear ; parotid, on the parotid gland ; zygomatic, in the zygomatic fossa ; buccal, on the buccinator muscle, and submaxillary, beneath the margin of the lower jaw. There are no deep lymphatic glands within the cranium. The superficial cervical lymphatic glands are few in number and small; they are situated in the course of the external jugular vein, between the sterno-mastoid and trapezius muscle, at the root of the neck, and about the larynx.