CRANIAL NERVES. 546 brancli of the internal maxillary artery. It sends a Ijrancli to the external pterygoid muscle, and is distrilnited to the buccinator and mucous membrane and integument of the clieek, communicating with the facial nerve. The internal pterygoid brancli is a long and slender nerve which passes inwards to tlie internal pterygoid muscle, and enters it on its deep surface. This nerve is remarkable for its connection with the otic ganglion, to which it is closely adherent. The external pterygoid branch is commonly derived from the buccal nerve. The posterior division of the inferior maxillary nerve splits into three branches— Auriculo-temporal, Inferior dental, Lingual. The AURICULO-TEMPORAL NERVE originates by two roots, be- tween which the middle meningeal artery takes its course, and passes directly backwards behind the articulation of the lower jaw. It then ascends between that articulation and the meatus auris, and, escaping from beneath the parotid gland, divides into two temporal Ijranches. While behind the temporo-maxillary articulation, it forms a kind of plexus, and sends off several branches. Its branches are—a small branch to the temporo-maxillary articu- lation ; two or three to the parotid gland ; two to the meatiis aurLs, Avliich enter the canal between the fibro-cartilage and jjrocessus auditorius ; two auricular branches to the pinna ; a communicating branch to the otic ganglion; two communicating branches to the facial nerve, and the tempoi'al branches. The auricular branches, superior and inferior, are distributed to the pinna above and below the meatus. The inferior brancli communicates with the sympathetic. The branches which communicate with the facial nerve embrace the external carotid artery in their course. The temporal branches are anterior and posterior : the anterior accompanies the anterior temporal artery, and supplies the integu- ment of the temporal region, communicating with branches of the facial, supra-orbital, subcutaneus malse, and lachrymal nerves ; the posterior is distributed to the upper part of the jDinna, attrahens auriculam muscle, and integument of the posterior -part of the temple. The INFERIOR DENTAL NERVE, the largest of the three branches of the ]30sterior division of the inferior maxillary, passes downwards with the inferior dental artery, at first between the two ijterj'-goid muscles, then between the internal lateral ligament and ramus of the lower jaw to the dental foramen, next it runs along the canal in the inferior maxillary bone, distributing branches to the teeth and gums, and divides into two terminal branches, incisive and mental. The branches of the inferior dental nerve, besides those given to the teeth, are the mylo-hyoid and the two terminal branches. The mylo-hyoid branch leaves the nerve just as it is about to