655 TASTE-BUDS. The fungiform papillae are irregularly dispersed over the dorsum of the tongue, and are easily recognised among the other papillse by their rounded heads, larger size, and red colour. A number of these papillae will generally be observed at the tip of the tongue. All these papillee have minute secondary papillae projecting from their surfaces, and these are coated with a very dense epithelial layer, which is generally flat over the circumvallate and fungiform papillse, but in the others forms hair-like processes, which vary greatly in their size and shape. The circumvallate and fungiform jiapillae appear alone to possess the special sense of taste, the filiform being much too dense at their aj)ices for the apprehension of delicate sensation, and hitherto no nerve filaments have been traced into the secondary papillse which surmount them. The filiform, however, are probably endowed with common sensation, and it is manifest that they perform important service in assisting mastication. Behind the papillse circumvallatse, at the root of the tongue, are a number of mucous glands (Ungual), which open on the surface. There is also a small cluster beneath the tip of the tongue. Taste-buds. — These are believed to be the special organs of taste ; they are found on the sides of the circumvallate papillse em- bedded in the sub- stance of the mucous membrane, one end being in contact with the corium, the other opening by minute pores on to the sur- face. They consist of numerous aggregated epithelial cells, the central ones being spindle - shaped, the peripheral ones flat- tened, with tapering ends The free end of each cell is sharp Fio -Taste-buds from the lateral'gustatoiy organ of a rabbi N and pointed, and projects through the pore ; the deep extremity is branched and connected with a plexus of nerve fibres. Vessels and Nerves.—The tongue is abundantly supplied with blood by the lingual arteries. The nerves are three in number, and of large size ; tlie gustatory or hncjual branch of the inferior maxillary is distributed to the papillse and mucous membrane generally of the fore-part and sides ot the tongue; it is the nerve of common sensation to those parts With It are distributed filaments of the chorda tvmpani; these seem to go chiefly to the papillae, and experiments tend to show that the sense of taste m the front and sides of the tongue is due to these, and not to tlie lingual filaments, as M-as formerly sup-