LUMBAR NERVES. nerve, and passes obliquely outwards l)etween the fibres of tlie psoas niagnus and across tlie quadratus lumborum to about the middle of the crest of the ilium. It then pierces the transversalis muscle, and between it and the internal oblique divides into its two terminal branches, iliac and hypogastric. The iliac branch, pierces the internal and external obliqiie, muscles close to their attachment, and a little behind tlie middle of the crest of the ilium ; it is distributed to the integument of th gluteal region as far down as the upper part of the hip. The hypogastric branch continues its course onwards, piercing Fig. 338. — Lumbar plexus. I. Right gaugliated cord of sympathetic. 2. Ab- dominal aorta. 3, 3. Last dorsal nerves. 4. Psoas parvus. 5. Quadratus lumbo- rum. 6. Psoas mag- nus. 7, 7. Ilio-hypo- gastric nerves. 8. Iliacus iuternu.s. 9, g. Ilio-lnguiual nerve. 10. Lumbo- sacral nerre. 11, II. Genito - crural nerves. 12. Gluteal nerve. 13. Iliac branch of ilio-hypo- gastric nerve. 14. Sacral plexus. 13, 15, 15. External cutaneous nerves. 17. Transversalis al 1- dominis. ig. Obli- quus internus. 21. Obliquus extemus. 23, 23. Anterior crural nerves. 25,25. Obturator nerves. 27, 27.Crural branch of genito - crural nerve. 29. Genital branch of genito- crural nei-ve. 31. External iliac ar- tery. 33. External abdominal ring. first the internal oblique, and just above the external abdominal ring the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is distributed to the integument of the hyiiogastric region and mons pubis. The ILIO-INGUINAL' NERVE, smaller than the preceding, also arises from the first lumbar nerve. It passes obliquely downwards and outwards below the ilio-hypogastric nerve, and crosses the quad- ratus lumborum and iliacus muscles to the anterior part of the crest of the ilium ; it then ]3ierces the transversalis muscle, and between that muscle and the obliquus internus communicates with the iho- hypogastric nerve. It next pierces the obliquus internus, and enters