MUSCLES AND FASCIA OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. 315 rectal fascia ; it is aljsent at the anterior border of tlie levator, wliere that muscle passes heneatli the prostate gland. Still another layer of the visceral pelvic fascia is found, clothing the external surface of the le^•ator ani; it is called the anal fascia ; it is con- tinuous at its anterior' extremity with the perineal fascia, and by its upper edge with the obturator fascia, and forms the inner boundarj' of the iscliio-rectal fossa. The veins of the bladder form a large and important plexus (vesical plexus) at the side of the base of that organ, between the lateral ligaments and recto-vesical fascia ; this plexus is continuous with a similar plexus on the prostate (prostatic plexus), placed he- tween the pubo-prostatic ligaments and the capsule of the gland. MUSCLES AND FASCIJ5 OF THE UPPEE EXTEEMITY. The superficial fascia of the upj)er extremity contains between its layers the superficial veins and lymphatics, and superficial nerves. The deep fascia is thin over the deltoid and pectoralis major muscle, but thick on the dorsum of the scapula, where it binds do'wn the infra-spinatus muscle. It is attached to the clavicle, coracoid process, acromion process, and .spine of the scapula, and jfornis separate sheaths for all the muscles of the scapula and rishoulder. In the lip^Jer arm it is somewhat stronger, receives fibres ifrom the lower border of the tendons of the pectoralis major and latis- isimus dorsi, as also from the costo-coracoid membrane and deltoid, ;md forms an anterior and posterior sheath for the muscles lying ' in front of and behind the humerus: It is attached to the condylai' ; ridges, by means of the internal and external intermuscular septum, and is inserted inferiorly into the two condyles, the ole- I ranon, and posterior border of the ulna, being continuous between tln'se points with the fascia of the forearm. Besides forming x'liarate sheaths for the muscles, the anterior portion of the '•lachial fascia gives a sheath likewise to the brachial vessels and median nerve. The intermuscular septa serve to separate the muscles on the li.ii'k ivoin those on the front of the upper arm, and also give an increased area for the attachment of those muscles. The external septum is pierced from l^ehind forwards by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery ; the internal is pierced from lore Ijackwards by the whmv nerve and inferior profunda and ■ 'iiastoniotica arteries. I Axillary Fascia.—A strong layer of deep fascia stretches across the base of the axillary space, it is continuous in front with the tfuscia which encloses the pectoralis muscle, and slopes downwards and backwards to join the fascia covering the latissimus dorsi ; on I Its uppei' surface it is joined by a layer descending from the pec-