MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. 243 where it becomes connected with the outer border of the depressor anguli oris and zygomaticns major. Nerve-supply.^—Supra-maxillary of facial. The LEVATOR LABII INFERIORIS (levator menti) is to be dis- sected by everting the lower li-p and raising the mucous membrane. It is a short but strong muscle arising from the incisive fossa of the lower jaw, and inserted into the integument of the chin. It is in relation with the mucous membrane of the moiith, with its fellow, and with the dejDressor labii inferioris. Nerve-supply.—Supra-maxillary of facial. The whole of the muscles of the face have attachments to the integu- ments, as well as to each other and to the bones, and it is chiefly in consequence of the integumentary attachments that they act as muscles -of expression, for it is by this means that the ridges and furrows which give such characteristic expressions to the face are produced. Actions.—The depressor labii inferioris draws the lower lip down- wards, and a little outwards. The depressor anguli oris, from the radiated direction of its fibres, will pull the angle of the mouth either downwards and forwards, or downwards and backwards, and be expressive of grief; or acting with the levator Miguli oris, zygo- maticns major, and risorius Santorini, will draw the angle of the mouth upwards and backwards, or directly backwards. The levator labii inferioris raises and jDrotrudes the integument of the cliin. 8. Maxillary Group.— Masseter, Buccinator, Temporal, Pterygoideus externus, Pterygoideus internus. Dissection.—The flap already, obtained must be carried as far back as the posterior margin of the ramus of the jaw, and the struc- tures which cover the masseter must be cut awayl Fascia.—The masseter muscle is covered by a strong layer of fascia continued on to it from the surface of the parotid' gland (parotideo-masseteric fascia) ; below, it may be traced into ■ the neck, where it is found to be continuous ^vith the anterior layer of the deep cervical fascia. It is intimately connected with the tendinous fibres of the muscle, and is attached above to the lower border of the zygomatic arch. The MASSETER (/xoo-o-ao/xat, to chew) is a short, thick, and some- what quadrilateral muscle, composed of two planes of filjres, super- ficial and deep. The superficial layer arises by a strong aponeurosis from the malar process of the superior maxillarv bone and lowei- border of the malar bone, and passes doAvuAvards "and backwards to be inserted into the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla The deep layer arises from the lower border of the malar bone and zygo- matic process of the temporal, and passes downwards and forwaixls to lie inserted into the upper half of the ramus. Relations.—By its external surface with the zygomaticns major nsorius Santorini and platysma myoides, parotid gland and Stenson's