601 SUBMAXILLAEY GANGLION. lesser petrosal nerve. The latter nerve arises from the tympanic plexus in the middle ear, communicates with the gangliform en- I largement on the facial nerve, traverses the petrous bone to emerge i on its anterior surface through a minute opening external to the hiatus Fallopii; it crosses the middle fossa of the skull, and passes through the foramen ovale (or a special foramen) to join the otic ganglion. It conveys nerve filaments from the facial nerve a-nd glosso-j)haryngeal nerve, those from the former constituting the motor root, and those from the latter the sensory root of the gan- ; glion; the sympathetic root coming from the nervi molles on the I middle meningeal artery. I The SUBMAXILLARY GANGLION (Wharton's) is a small round or triangular ganglion situated on the deep portion of the sub- FiG. 346.—Dissection show- ing inferior maxillary nerve and otic ganglion, i. Sen- sory portion of fifth nerve, with Gasserian ganglion. 2. Tensor tympani. 3. Motor portion of fifth, passing be- neath ganglion. 4. Malleus. 5. Small superficial petrosal nerve. 6. Incus. 7. Otic ganglion. 8. Facial nerve. 9. Chorda tympani. 10. Membrana tympani. 11. Tensor palati. 12. Middle meningeal artery. 13, 13. Lingual nerve. 14. Auri- cuio-temporal nerve. 15. Inferior dental nerve. 16. Kxternal pterygoid. 17. Internal pterygoid. 18. In- ternal maxillary artery. 20, 20. Mylo-hyoid nerve. maxillary gland, in close relation with the lingual nerve, and near the posterior border of the mylo-hyoid muscle. Its branches of distribution, six or eight in number, divide into many filaments, which supply the side of the tongue the sub- maxiUary gland, sublingual gland, and Wharton's duct. Its branches of communication are two or three from and to the lingual nerve ; one from the chorda tympani ; two or three which form a plexus with branches of the hyjDoglossal nerve : and one or two filaments which pass to the facial artery, and commu- nicate with the nervi molles from the cervical portion of the sympathetic. Roots.—The motor root of the submaxillary ganglion is derived from the hypoglossal; the sensory root from the lingual branch of the interior maxillary, and the sympathetic root from the filaments wfiich accompany the facial artery (nervi molles) CAROTID PLEXUS._The ascending branch of'the superior cervi- cal ganglion enters the carotid canal with the internal carotid artery and divides into two branches, which form several loops of com- I