381 INNOMINATE ARTERY. coronary artery snpj)lies the left auricle and anterior surface of both ventricles. The right coronary passes forwards, between the root of the pulmonary artery and the right auricle, and runs from left to right in the auriculo-ventricular groove. It gives off a small branch which continues onwards transversely, between the left auricle and ventricle; the main trunk descends along the posterior aspect of the heart to its aj)ex, giving off twigs which supply the posterior aspect of both ventricles. The coronary arteries anastomose with each other on the surface of the heart, and by the branches distributed to the walls of the great ^'essels ; but in the walls of the heart their branches are for the most part " terminal arteries," without anastomoses. INNOMINATE ARTERY. The innominate artery (brachio-cephalic) (Fig. 250, 23) is the first and largest artery given off by the arch of the aorta. It is an inch and a half in length, and arises from the arch behind the junction of the first and second pieces of the sternum ; it ascends obliquely towards the right sterno-clavicular articulation, where it divides into the right carotid and right subclavian artery. Plan of the Relations of the Innominate Artery. In Front. Sternum, Sterno-hyoid muscle, Sterno-thyroid muscle, Remains of thymus gland, Left brachio-cephalic vein, Right inferior thyroid veins, Inferior cervical cardiac branch of right vagus. Right Side. Right brachio-cephalic vem. Right vagus nerve. Pleura. Innominate Artery. Left Side. Remains of thymus, Left common carotid artery. Left inferior thyroid vein. Trachea. Behind. Trachea, The innominate artery occasionally gives off a small branch, thyroidea ima (lowest thyroid), which ascends along the middle of the trachea to the thyroid gland. A knowledge of its existence is important in performing the operation of tracheotomy. COMMON CAROTID ARTERIES. fu'^?^^"""^^"^' arteries (/capa, the head) arise, the right from the bifurcation of the innominate artery opposite the right sterno-