584 LUMBAR NERVES. border of the brim of the pelvis, to the obturator foramen, where it joins the obturator artery. Having escaped from the pelvis, it divides into an anterior and pos- terior braiicli. The anterior branch passes downwards in front of the adductor brevis, supplies that muscle together with the pectineus, gracilis, and adductor longus, and at the lower border of the latter unites with the internal cutaneous and long saphenous nerve, to form a plexus. It then passes onwards to the femoral artery, to which it distributes filaments. In its course this nerve gives off an articular branch to the hip-joint; and a cuta- neous branch, which jjierces the fascia lata at the knee, communi- cates with the long saphenous nerve, and is distributed to the in- tegument of the inner side of the leg as far as its middle. The cuta- neous branch is often, wanting, its ])lace being supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve, and sometimes by the acces- sory obturator. the posterior branch pierces the obturator ex- ternus muscle, to which and to the adductor magnus it distributes branches ; it also gives off an articular branch which pierces the ad- ductor magnus muscle, and accompanies the popliteal artery to the knee-joint. ^ . ■ i • i, The accessory obturator nerve, small and inconstant, is a lugn Fig. 339.—Lumbar and sacral plex- uses, with the nerves of the lower extremity, i. The first four lumbar nerves; which, with a branch from the last dor- sal, constitute the lumbar plexus. 2. The four upper sacral nerves; wliicli, with the last lumbar, form the sacral plexus. 3. The ilio-hypo- gastric and ilio-iii- guinal nerves. 4. G e n i t o - c r u r a 1 nerve. 5. External cutaneous nerve. 6. Anterior crural nerve. 7. Its mus- cular branches. 8. Middle cutaneous branches. 9, 10. Internal cuta- neous branches. II. The long or internal saphe- nous. 12. Obtu- rator nerve. 13. Gluteal nerve, a branch of the lum- bo-sacral. 14. In- ternal pudic nerve. 15. Lesser isehiatic nerve. 16. Greater isehiatic nerve. 17. Internal popliteal nerve. 18. Ex- ternal popliteal nerve. 19. Mus- cular branches. 20. Posterior tibial nerve, dividing at 21 into the two plantar nerves. 22. External saphe- nous nerve. 23. Anterior tibial nerve. 24. Musculo- cutaneous nerve, piercing the deep fascia, and divid- ing into two cuta- neous branches for the supply of the dorsum of the foot. 23U