RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. 205 anterior interosseous arlery and nerve ; behind, with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, extensor indicis, and near the wrist with the anterior interosseous artery and posterior in- terosseous nerve. The anterior inferior radio-ulnar ligament is a thin band of fibres, passing transversely between the anterior surface of the lower end of the radius and ulna. The posterior inferior radio-ulnar liga- ment, also thin and loose, has the same dis- position on the posterior surface of the articu- lation. The triangular interarticular fibro-carti- lage acts the part of a ligament between the lower extremity of the radius and ulna. It is inserted by its apex into a depression on the inner surface of the styloid process of the ulna, and attached by its base to the edge of the radius. This fibro-cartilage is lined on the upper surface by a synovial membrane, which forms a remarkably loose capsule between the radius and ulna, and is called the membrana sacciformis. By its lower surface it enters into the articulation of the wrist-joint. Actions.—The movements taking place between the radius and ulna are—rotation of the former upon the latter, rotation forwards being termed pronation, and rotation backwards sivpination; in the former the palm of the hand comes to be directed downwards, in the latter it looks upwards. In these movements the head of the radius turns upon its axis, within its orbicular ligament and lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna ; while inferiorly, the radius presents a concavity whicli moves on the rounded head of the ulna. The ulna also moves, although in much less degree, in a direction opposite to that of the radius; this movement depends chiefly on rota- tion at the shoulder-joint, and to some extent on a laxity of the elbow-joint. The movements of the radius are chiefly limited by the anterior and posterior inferior ligaments ; hence these are not unfrequently ruptured in great muscular efforts. 7- WRIST-JOINT.—The wrist is a condyloid articulation; the articular surfaces entering into its formation being the radius and Fig. 168.—Upper part of ulna and orbicular ligameut. i. Olecra- non. 2. Tip of coronoid process. 3. Orbicular ligament. Fig. i6g.—Lower end of radius and ulna, with articular surfaces. I. Radius. 2. Ulna. 3. Inter- articular fibro-cartilage. 4. Ar- ticular end of radius. 5. Metn- brana sacciformis.