GLOSSARY OF ANATOMICAL TERMS. 802 AmtgdaL;?3 (Gk. afivyddX-r], an almond). The tonsils are bo called froin their resemblance to almonds. Anastomosis (Gk. dva, by, and (TTo/xd, a mouth). The intercommunicu tion of vessels. Anatomy (Gk. dva, through, and re/xvu, I cut). The Greek equivalent " Dissection." Anchylosis (Gk. dyKvXos, crooked). An unnatural union between bones. Anconeus (Gk. dyKcov, the elbow). A muscle situated near the elbow. Annulus (Lat. annulus, a ring). A circle or ring. Anti—as in anti-tragus, anti-helix, &c. (Gk. dvrl, against). Opposite, or opposed to. Antrum (Lat. antrum, a cave). The name given to a cavity in the 8uperi(ji maxillary bone, and a much smaller one in the mastoid. Anus (Lat. anus, an opening). The termination of the rectum which serves as an outlet for the fasces. Aobta (Gk. dopTTjp, a belt or strap to hang anything to). The main artery of the body is probably so called because it apparently suspends the heart. Aponeueosis (Gk. dird, from, and vevpov, a nerve). A tendinous expansion, so called because the early anatomists did not distinguish between tendons and nerves. Apophysis (Gk. d-n-6, from, and ^vu, I grow). A projection from the surface of a bone. Appendices efiploic^e (Lat.). Small fringes of fat attached to the large intestine. Arachnoid (Gk. dpax^V^ ^ spider's web, and elSos, like). The middle membrane of the brain. Arouatum (Lat. arcuatus, bow-shaped). Name given, from their shape, to tendinous bands connecting the diaphragm with the last rib and first lumbar vertebra. Areola (Lat. diminutive of area, a void space). Term applied to inter- spaces in fibrous tissue. Artery (Gk. drjp, air or spirit, and r-qpiw, I keep). A vessel carrying blood from the heart. The ancients supposed the arteries contained the vital spirit or soul, and hence the name. Arthrodia (Gk. oLpdpov, a joint). An articulation admitting of a gliding movement. Arthrology (Gk. &pdp6v, a joint, and \6705, a discourse). A treatise on joints. Articulation (Lat. articulus, a joint). The means by which the bones of the skeleton are connected. Arytenoid (Gk. dpiraiva, a pitcher, and elSos, like). The two pyramidal cartilages of the larynx, so called from the supposed resemblance of the two together to the mouth of a pitcher. AsTERiON (Gk. aarrjp, a star). The point of junction of the occipital, parietal, and temporal bones. Astragalus (Gk. darpdyaXos, a die). One of the bones of the tarsus. Atlas (Gk. rXdw, I sustain). The vertebra which supports the head. Attollens (Lat. attollo, I raise up). Raising. The attollens auriculam muscle raises the pinna. Attrahens (Lat. ad, to, and tralio, I draw). Drawing towards. The anterior extrinsic muscle of the ear is so called because it draws the ear forwards.