122 KEGIONS OF THE SKULL. llie imrietal foramen is generally a little flattened ; it has received t lie name of ohelion. On the inner or cerehral surface of this region is a shallow groove^ extending along the middle line from before backwards, for the su])erior longitudinal sinus ; at each side of this groove are several small fossoe for the Pacchionian Ijodies, and farther outwai'ds, digital fossae corresponding with the convexities of the convolutions, and numerous ramified grooves for lodging the brandies of the meningeal arteries. Each lateral region of the slaill is divisible into three portions ; temporal, mastoid, and zygomatic. The temporal portion or temporal fossa is bounded above and behind by the temporal crest, in front by the external angular process of the frontal and by the malar bone, and below by the zygoma. It Fig. II8.—Front view of tlie skull, i. Frontal portion of the frontal bone. The 2 immediately over the root of the nose refers to the glabella; the 3 over the orbit to the .siipiaorbital ridge. 4. Optic foramen. 5. Sphen- oidal fissure. 6. Spiieno-maxillary fissure. 7. The comiiieucement of the nasal duct. The figures 4, 5, 6, 7, are within the orbit. 8. Opening of tlie anterior nares, divided into two parts by the vomer; the figure is (ilaced npon the latter, g. Infraorbital fora- men. 10. Malar bone. 11. Symphysis of tlie lower jaw. 12. Mental fora- men. 13. Ramus of the lower jaw. 14. Parietal bone. 15. Coronal suture. 16. Temporal bone. 17. Squamo- parietal suture. 18. Upper part of the great wing of the sphenoid bone. 19. Commencement of the temporal crest. 20. Zygoma. 21. Mastoid \»o- cess. is formed by part of the frontal, great wing of the sphenoid, parietal, squamous poi'tion of the temporal, malar Ijone, and zygoma, and is crossed by six sutui'es, the transverse of the face, coronal, squamo- parietal, spheno-parietal, spheno-malar, and squamo-sjjhenoidal; it lodges the temjDoral muscle with the deep temj^oral arteries and nerves. The mastoid portion is rough, for the attachment of muscles. On its posterior part is the mastoid foramen ; and below, the mastoid process. In front of the mastoid process is the external auditory meatus, surrounded by the external auditory process ; and in front of the meatus the glenoid cavity, bounded above l;)y the middle I'oot of the zygoma, and in front by the eminentia articularis. ;^The ziigomatic portion, or fossa, is the irregular ca\-ity below the zygoma, bounded in front by the superior niaxillar}^ bone, internally