AXILLARY ARTERY. 4o8 buted to tlie pectoral muscles and walls of the chest. It anastomoses with the intercostal and mammary arteries. The acromial thoracic (thoracic axis) is a short trunk which proceeds froin the axillary in the space above the pectoralis minor muscle, and divides into four sets of branches : j^ectoral, which are distributed to tlie pectoral muscles, serratus magnus, and mammary ffland ; ucroviicil, which pass outwards to the acromion, and inoscu- late with branches of the supra-scapular artery; descending (thoracica humei'aria), a single branch, wlaich follows the interspace between the deltoid and pectoralis major muscle,- and is in relation with tlie cephalic vein ; and one or more clavicular branches which pass to tlie subclavius muscle and supply it. The inferior or long thoracic (external mammary) descends along the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the side of the chest. It is distributed to the jjectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, and mammary gland: inosculating with the superior thoracic, intercostal, and mammary arteries. The alar thoracic is a small branch distributed to the plexus of nerves and glands in the axilla. It is frequently wanting, its place being supplied by a branch derived from one of the other thoracic branches. The subscapular artery, the largest of the branches of the axillary, runs along the lower border of the subscapular muscle, to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it inosculates with the posterior scapular, a branch from the subclavian. It supplies the muscles of the under surface and inferior border of the scapula, and the side of the chest. At about an inch and a half from the axillary, it gives off a large branch, the dorsalis scapulae, which passes back- wards through the triangular space bounded by the teres minor, teres major, and scajDular head of the triceps, and beneath the infra-spinatus muscle to the dorsum of the scapula, where it is dis- tributed, inosculating with the supra-scapular and posterior scapular arteries. The circumflex arteries wind around the neck of the humerus. The anterior, very small, passes beneath the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, and sends a branch upwards along the bicipital groove to supply the shoulder-joint; it then passes be- neath the deltoid, and distributes branches to that muscle, which anastomose with the posterior circumflex and acromial thoracic arteries. The posterior circumflex, of larger size, passes liackwards through the quadrangular space bounded by the teres minor and majoi-, the scapular head of the triceps, and humerus, and is distributed to the deltoid muscle and shoulder-joint; it anastomoses with the anterior circumflex, subscapular, acromial thoracic, and superior profunda arteries. Sometimes this artery is a branch of the superior profunda of the brachial; it then ascends behind the tendon of the teres major, and is distributed to the deltoid without passing through the quadrangular space.