486 SPINAL CORD. enlargements. The uppermost of these corresponds with the origin of the nerves destined to the upper extremities (cervical) ; and the lower enlargement (hombar) is situated near the termination of thu cord, and corres^jonds with the attachment of the nerves intended for the supply of the lower limbs. Tlie cervical enlargement is widest in the transverse diameter, and extends from the thii-d cervical vertebra to the first dorsal; corresponding, therefore, to the origin of the nerves of the brachial plexus. The lumbar enlarge- ment is widest from before backwards ; it corresponds to the origin of the lumbar and sacral :ierves, and extends from the tenth dorsal vertebra to the upper part of the conns meduUaris. The spinal cord gives off near its termination an assemblage of nerves Avhicli has received the name of cauda equina; the cauda ecLuina 1;^ formed by the roots of the lumbar and sacral nerves elongated by the growth of the spine, the ganglia of the posterior roots being held in connection "with the intervertebral foramina through which the nerves pass. The spinal cord is held in its place by its connection above -witl: the medulla oljlongata at the foramen magnum, and below by the attachment of the filum terminale to the base of the coccyx ; laterally it is secured by a membrane, the ligamentum clentatum, which jjasses from its lateral aspect to join the dura mater, and by the spinal nerves which are fixed to the membranes and bones at the inter- A^ertebral foramina. It is much smaller than the canal in which it lies, being separated from the osseous walls by its membranes, by venous plexuses and areolar tissue. In form, the spinal cord is a fiattened cylinder, and presents on it> anterior surface a fissure, which extends into the cord to the dei)tli of one-third its diametei', and is occupied by a fold of pia mater. This is the anterior median fissure. If the sides of this fissure be gently separated, they will be seen to be connected at the bottom by a layer of white substance, the anterior white commissure. In the middle line behind and corresponding with the anterior fissure is the posterior median fissure, which contains a few blood- vessels and a little connective tissue {neuroglia). It extends nior-' deeply into the cord than the anterior fissure, and reaches the gre\ substance of the interior forming the posterior grey commissure. These two fissures divide the spinal cord into two lateral portions, ■ which are connected to each other by the white commissure whicli forms the bottom of the anterior fissure, and by a mass of grey matter situated behind it. A little external to the posterior median fissure on each side is a slight Hne, the posterior intermediate septum, Avhich marks the limits of the posterior niedian columns. These columns are most apparent in the cervical i-egion, and beconn- continuous in the medulla oblongata, with the posterior pyranuds, or funiculi graciles. , On the lateral aspects of the cord two other lines are observed, the anterior and posterior lateral grooves, corresponding with the attachment of the anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves.