220 ANKLE-JOINT. ■ The synovial membrane of the inferior tibio-fibular articulation IS a told of the synovial membrane of the ankle-joint, reflected upwards for a short distance between the two bones. Actions.—Between the tibia and fibula there' exists a slight degree of movement, which is calculated to enable the latter to resist injury by yielding ibr a trifling extent to forcible pressure. 4. ANKLE-JOINT.—The ankle is a ginglymus articulation ; the surfaces entering into its formation are the under surface of the tibia with Its malleolus and the malleolus of the fibula, above ; and the surface of the astragalus with its two lateral facets, below. The ligaments are four in number :— Anterior, Internal lateral. External lateral. Posterior. The anterior ligament is a thin membranous layer, passing from the margin of the tibia to the astragalus in front of its articular sur- FiG. 178.—Ligaments of inner side of ankle and foot. 1,2, 3, 4. Different parts of internal lateral ligament of ankle. 5, 6. Inferior calcaiieo-scaphoid ligament. 7. Internal ligament between internal cuneiform and first metatarsal. 8. Ligament between the scaphoid and internal cuneiform, g. Inferior ligament between internal cuneiform and first metatarsal. 10. Inferior ligament of first metatarso- phalangeal joint. face. It is in relation, in front, with the tendons of the extensors of the great and lesser toes, tibialis auticus, peroneus tertius, and ante- rior tibial vessels and nerves. Posteriorly it lies in contact with a stratum of extra-synovial adipose tissue and the synovial membrane. The internal lateral or deltoid ligament is a triangular layer of fibres, attached superiorly, by its apex, to the internal malleolus ; inferiorly, by an expanded base, to the astragalus, os calcis, and scaphoid bones. Beneath the superficial layer of this ligament is a stronger and thicker fasciculus, which connects the apex of the internal malleolus with the side of the astragalus. The internal lateral ligament is covered iu and partly concealed by the tendon of the tibialis posticus, and, at its posterior part, is in