PELVIC FASCIA. 313 bodv at the level of the lower border of the pubic symphysis. ^ roru this^line of attachment, the parietal pelvic fascia passes down oyer the inner surface of the obturator internus to the ramus of the ischium and pubes and the greater and lesser sciatic ligaments, to all of which structures it is very firmly attached ; it is here known as the obturator fascia. Where the internal pudic vessels and nerve pass inside the tuberosity of ischium, this fascia forms a canal for them in conjunction with the falciform edge of the great_ sciatic lioament; this'is called Alcock's canal. Across the pubic arch the parietal layer is continued to form the so-called posterior layer of the triangular ligament; this portion is attached above to the sub-pubic ligauieut, on each side to the ramus of the pubes, and below is continuous with the triangular ligament (anterior layer). Traced backwards the parietal layer is found to clothe the pyri- PiG. 220.—Transverse section of the pelvis, seen from behind, showing the arrange- ment of the pelvic fascia. i. Bladder. 2. Vesicula seminalis of one side divided. 3. Rectum. 4. Iliac fascia, covering in the iliacus and psoas (5); and forming a sheath for tlie exter- nal iliac vessels (6). 7. Anterior crural nerve excluded from thesheatli. 8. Pelvic fascia, q. Its ascend- ing layer, forming the lateral ligament of the bladder of one side, and a sheath to the vesical plexus of veins. 10. Recto-vesical fascia. 11. Rectal fascia. 12. Levator ani. 13. internus, covered in by the obturator fascia, which also forms a sheath ternal pudic vessels and nerve (14). 15. Anal fascia investing the under tlie levator ani. Figures 14, 15 are placed in the ischio-rectal fossa. Obturator for the in- surface of forniis muscle (fascia of the pyriformis) and sacral plexus, being- pierced by the branches of the internal pudic artery ; it is here very thin and ill-defined, and, becoming more so as it passes backwards, is lost in the loose connective tissue and fat filling in the interval between the rectum and front of the sacruui. The visceral layer of the pelvic fascia is derived from the inner surface of the parietal layer along a line drawn from the inner surface of the body of the pubes to the spine of the ischium. I Along this line the fascia is thickened and shining, hence it is known as the white line ; it gives attachment to the origin of the levator ani muscle. The visceral layer is reflected backwards from the symphysis pubis on the upper surface of the prostate gland and npfV nf l^lo^I^b... T1.,% „,1 ,..,4J. .,i„,l c • . ,1