SUPEEIOK MAXILLARY NEEVE. 543 outwcords between the nasal bone and cartilage, supplies the integii- ment of the exterior of the nose as far as its tip. The branches of the nasal nerve aTe—ga7ujlionic, ciliary, and infra-trochlear. The ganglionic branch, about half an inch in length and of small size, enters the upper angle of the ophthalmic ganglion, and consti- tutes its superior or long root. It is often joined by the sympathetic root of the ganglion derived from the cavernous plexus. The long ciliary branches are two or three filaments given off from the nerve as it crosses the optic nerve. They pierce the sclerotic coat near the short ciliary nerves, and passing through the globe of the eye between the sclerotic and choroid, are distributed to the iris. The infra-trochlear branch is given off close to the anterior in- ternal orbital foramen. It passes forward along the upjDer border of the internal rectus to the inner angle of the eye, where it com- municates with the supra-trochlear nerve, and is distributed to the lachrymal sac and inner angle of the orbit. The SUPERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE, larger than the preceding, is the nerve of sensation of the teeth of the upper jaw, the hard and soft palate, tonsils, antrum maxillare, and muscles and integument of the lower eyelid, cheek, and upper lip. Proceeding from the middle of the Gasserian ganglion, it passes forward through the foramen rotundum, crosses the spheiio-maxillary fossa, and enters the canal in the floor of the orbit, along which it runs to the infra- orbita,l foramen. Emerging on the face, beneath the levator labii superioris muscle, it becomes the infra-orhital nerve, and divides into palpebral, nasal, and labial branches, which form a plexus with the facial nerve. The branches of the superior maxillary nerve are divisible into three groups : namely, those given off in the splieno-maxillary fossa ; 4 those given off in the infra-orbital canal; and those given off on the i| face. They may be thus arranged :— i i Orbital, or temjDoro-malar, Spheno-maxillary fossa . . < Si^heno-palatine, ( Posterior dental. Infra-orbital canal . . 1 Middle dental, \ Anterior dental. ( Palpebral, On the face } Nasal, ( Labial. The orbital branch enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fissure, and divides into two brandies, temporal and malar ; the femporal branch ascends along the outer Avail of the orbit, and after receiving a branch from the lachrymal nerve, passes through a canal in the malar bone, and enters the temporal fossa ; it then pierces the temporal muscle and fascia, and is distributed to the integument of the temple and side of the forehead, communicating with the