LUMBAR NERVES. 581 lateral cutaneous branch of the second intercostal nerve; after piercing the external intercostal muscle, it passes downwards into the axilla and commnnicates with a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve of Wrisberg. It then perforates the deep fascia, and is dis- tributed to the integument of the inner and back part of the arm to about the middle, and to the integument covering the lower part of the scapula. On the back of the arm it communicates with the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. This nerve sometimes takes the place of the nerve of Wrisberg. There are five pairs of lumbar nerves, of which the first makes its appearance between the first and second lumbar vertebra ; the last between the fifth lumbar and the base of the sacrum. The anterior divisions increase in size from above downwards. They communi- cate at their origin with the lumbar ganglia of the symj)athetic, and pass obliquely outwards behind the psoas magnus, or between its fasciculi, sending twigs to that muscle and to the quadratus lum- borum. In this situation each nerve divides into two branches, a superior branch which ascends to form a loop of commvmication with the nerve above ; and an inferior branch which descends to join in like manner the nerve below. The communications which are thus established constitute the lumbar plexus. The posterior divisions diminish in size from above downwards ; they pass backwards between the transverse processes of the corre- sponding vertebrse, and each nerve divides into an internal and ex- ternal branch. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, passes inwards to be distributed to the multifidus spin.ie and inter-spinales. The externcd branches communicate with each other by several looj)S, and, after supplying the deeper muscles, pierce the sacro-lumbalis to reach the integument, to which they are distributed. The exter- nal branches of the three upper lumbar nerves descend over the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, and are distributed to the integument of the gluteal region. LUMBAR PLEXUS.—The lumbar plexus is formed by the com- munications and anastomoses which take place between the anterior divisions of the four upper lumbar nerves, and between the latter and the last dorsal. It is narrow above, increases in breadth in- feriorly, and is situated between the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae and quadratus lumborum behind, and the psoas magnus muscle in front. The branches of the lumbar plexus are the— The ILIO-HYPOGASTRIC NERVE proceeds from the first lumbar LUMBAR NERVES. External cutaneous, Obturator, Anterior crural.