INTEENAL EAR. 643 2. In tlie inner wall are the— Ridge of tlie aquoeductus Fallopii, Fenestra ovalis, Pyramid, Promontory, witli the grooves for nerves, Fenestra rotunda. 3. In the posterior wall are the— Opening of the mastoid cells. Opening for Jacobson's nerve, Opening of entrance of chorda tympani. 4. In the anterior wall are the— Canal for tensor tympani muscle. Eustachian tube. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the tymj^anum are the anterior tympanic from the internal maxillary, the tympanic from the internal carotid, the stylo-mastoid from the jjosterior auricular, and the petrosal from the middle meningeal; occasionally there is also a small branch of the ascending pharyngeal, which ascends by the side of the Eustachian tube to reach the tympanum. The veins terminate in the middle meningeal and pharyngeal veins, which form a plexus near the articulation of the lower jaw, and emj)ty into the internal jugular vein. The nerves are—i. Minute branches of the facial distributed to the stajiedius muscle. 2. The cliorda tympani nerve, Avhich leaves the facial nerve near the stylo-mastoid foramen, and arches upwards to enter the tympanum at the root of the pyramid ; it then passes for- wards between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to reach the canal of Huguier, through which it escajjes. 3. The tymjMuic plexus, formed by the tympanic branch of the glosso- pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve), filaments from the carotid plexus, the lesser petrosal nerve from the otic ganglion, and a branch from the gi'eater petrosal nerve. The branches of the plexus lie in shallow grooves on the surface of the promontory, and contain numerous ganglion cells, both in the course of the filaments and at the points where they unite ; they are distributed to tlie mucous membrane of the tympanum. Eustachian tube, and mastoid cells. 4. A filament from the otic ganglion to the tensor tympani muscle. INTERNAL EAR. The internal ear is called the labyrinth, from its complexity ; it consists of an osseous cavity and certain membranous structures contained therein, the latter constituting the membranous labv- rinth. The OSSEOUS LABYRINTH presents a series of cavities, which