LACHRYMAL BONES. Ill vomer. The prolongation of this ridge forwards beyond the level of the facial siu^face of the bone is the nasal spine. Near the anterior extremity of the internal border is seen a deep groove, which, ex- panding' inferiorly, forms Avith its fellow of the opposite side the ■incidve foramen. When the hard palate (completed by the junction of the two bones) is viewed from below, this foramen is seen to con- tain four smaller foramina, two of which are placed in the middle line, one before the other (foramina of Scarpa), the anterior transmitting the left naso-palatine nerve and the posterior the right; the other two (foramina of Stenson), being placed laterally, form the entrance to the anterior palatine canals and give passage to the anterior palatine arteries. These all open above into the inferior meatus of the nose. Development.—By/o?(.r centres : one for the anterior part of the palate and incisive portion of the alveolar process (intermaxillary) ; one for that portion of the bone lying internally to the infraorbital canal and foramen; one for that portion lying externally to the infraorbital groove and canal; and one for the palate process. The antrum first begins to be formed about the fourth month of foetal life. The superior maxillary bone is one of the earliest to show signs of ossification, this action beginning in the alveolar prcjcess, and being associated with the early development of teeth. Articulations.—With nine bones ; viz., two of the cranium, and all the bones of the face, excepting the inferior maxillary. These are, frontal and ethmoid ; nasal, lachrymal, malai', inferior turbi- nated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Attachment of Muscles.—To ticelve: orbicularis palpebrarum, ol)liquus inferior oculi, levator labii superioris alseque nasi, levator labii superioris jjroprius, levator anguli oris, compressor nasi, dilatator naris, depressor alte nasi, buccinator, masseter, orbicularis oris and internal i^terygoid. LACHRYMAL BONES. The lacluymal (called os unguis from an imagined I'esemblance to a finger-nail) is a thin oval-shaped plate of bone, situated in front Fir;. HI.—Lachrymal bone of the right side viewed on its external or orbital surface, i. Orbital portion of the bone. 2. Lachrymal portion ; the prominent ridge between these two portions is the crest. 3. Lower termination of the crest, the hamulus lachry- raalis. 4. Superior border, which articulates with the frontal bone. 5. Posterior border, which articulates with the ethmoid bone. 6. Anterior border, which articulates with the superior maxillary bone. 7. The border which articulates with the inferior turbmated bone. and at the inner angle of the orbit. It may be divided into an external and internal surface and four l)orders. The external surface IS smooth, and marked by a vertical ridge, the lachrymal crest, into