6s6 ORGAN OF 'J'AS'J'E. I M I I l)Osed. Many observers believe tliat tlie clioi-da tyinpani filaments are really derived from the glosso-pliaryngeal nerve ; that tliey join the. facial nerve at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascend through the lower i)art of the aqueduct of Fallopius to the iter chorda? poste- rins. Traversing the tympanum in the manner already desci-iljedj and leaving the cavity through the canal of Huguier, the chorda joins the lingual branch of the fifth in the pterygoid region, and with it is distrilnited to the tongue. The glosso-pharyngeal nerve is distributed to the back part of the tongue, and more especially to the circiunvallate papillae ; it endows those parts with the sense of taste. Tlie hypoglossal nerve is the motor nerve distributed to the extrinsic muscles of the tongue, and to most of the intrinsic fibres. A branch of the facial nerve, however, is transmitted along the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and in j)art supplies the intrinsic muscles (Hirschfeld). The terminal filaments of the sezisory nerves are supposed in some cases to become attached to the inner ends of the epithelial cells, especially those forming the taste-buds ; the connection bearing a close regiemblance to that observed in the retina, the cochlea, and the nasal mucous membrane. The mucous membrane which invests the tongue is continuous with the derma along the margin of the lips. On either side of the frtenum linguae it may be traced through the sublingual ducts into the sublingual glands, and along Wliarton's ducts into the sub- maxillary glands ; from the sides of the cheeks it passes through the opening of Stenson's ducts to the parotid glands ; in the fauce-s, it forms the assemblage of mucous crypts called tonsils, and may thence be traced downwards into the larynx and pharynx, where it is continuous with the general gastro-pulmonary mucous membrane. Beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth are a number of small glands, M-hich pour their secretion upon the surface. A con- siderable number of these bodies are situated within the lips, in the palate, and in the floor of the mouth. They are named according to their position—lahial glanyfs, palatal glands, and buccal glands.