RIBS. consists. Ossification commences in the manubrium towards the end of the sixth month of foetal life, in the second segment about the seventh or eighth month, in the third and fourth about the time of birth, and in the fifth segment during the first year. The osseous centre for the ensiform cartilage is very variable in its advent, being first apparent at any period from the sixth to the fifteenth year, or even later. Frequently, additional nuclei appear in several of the segments, this being more especially the case with the manubrium, in which as many as six centres have occasionally been oljserved ; in the third, fourth, and fifth segments there are frequently two centres which are jilaced laterally, and it is the irregular union of these pairs that gi-\'es rise to the foramina occasionally seen in the sternum towards its lower part. Union of the pieces of the sternum commences from below and proceeds upwards ; the fifth piece unites with the fourth at about puberty, the fourth and third betAveen twenty and twenty-five, the third and second between twenty-five and thirty. The ensiform appendix becomes joined to the body of the sternum at forty or fifty years ; and the manuljrium to the liody only in very old age. Two small pisiform pieces have been described by Beclard and Breschet, as being situated uj^on and somewhat be- hind each extremity of the supra-sternal notch of the upper border of the manubrium. Articulations.—With the clavicles and seven costal cartilages on each side. Attachment of Muscles.—To nine pairs and one single muscle —viz., by its anterior surface to the pectoralis major, by its upper border to the sterno-mastoid, by the upjjer and poderior part of the mamibritim to the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid, l)y the posterior surface of the body to the triangularis sterni, and by the ensiform cartilage to the external oblique, internal oblique, transversalis, rectus, and diaphragm. RIBS. The ribs are twelve in number at each side ; the first seven are connected with the sternum by the costal cartilage, and are thence named sternal or true ribs ; the remaining five are the asternal ox- false ribs ; and the last two, shorter than the rest, and free at their extremities, are the floating ribs. The ribs increase in length from the first to the eighth, wlience they diminish to the twelfth ; in breadth they diminish gradually from the first to the last, and, with the exception of the last two, are broader at the anterior than at the posterior end. The first rib is horizontal in direction ; all the rest are oblique, the anterior extremity falling considerably below the posterior. Each ril) presents an external and internal surface, a superior and inferior border, and two extremities ; it is curved to correspond with the arch of the thorax, and twisted, so that, when laid on a horizontal surface, one end is tilted up. The external surface is convex, and marked by the attachment