533 SUB-AIUCHNOID SPACES. arachnoid space. Another space formed in a similar manner between the under part of the cerebellum and the medulla oblongata, is the posterior siib-arachnoid space; and a third space, situated over the corpora quadrigemina and corpus callosum, may be termed the supe- rior suh-arachnoid space. These spaces communicate freely with each other, the anterior and posterior across the crura cerebelli, the ante- rior and the superior around the crura cerebri, and the latter and the posterior across the cerebellum in the course of the vermiform processes. The posterior space comnnmicates by means of an open- ing called the foramen of Magendie with the cavity of the_ fourth ventricle ; and the anterior space has two small openings in its wall behind the roots of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, which communicate with a pouch-like prolongation of the arachnoid beneath the flocculus. They communicate also with a still larger space formed by the loose disjDOsition of the arachnoid around the spinal cord, the spinal sub- arachnoid space. The whole of these spaces, with the lesser spaces between the convolutions of the hemispheres, constitute one large and continuous cavity which is filled with a limpid serous secretion, the sub-arachnoid or cerebrospinal fluid, a fluid which is necessary for the regulation of pressure, and protection of the cerebro-spinal mass. The arachnoid is connected to the pia mater by a delicate areolar tissue, which in the sub-arachnoid space is loose and filamen- tous. The serous secretion of the sub-dural space is very small in cpiantity as compared with the sub-arachnoid fluid. The arachnoid does not enter into the ventricles of the brain, but is reflected inwards upon the vense Galeni for a short distance only, and returns upon those vessels to the dura mater of the tentorium. It surrounds the nerves as they originate from the Ijrain, and forms a sheath around them to their point of exit from the skull. Vessels of considerable size, but few in number, and branches of cranial nerves, are found in the arachnoid. Structure.—The arachnoid cousists of interlacing bundles of tine fibrous tissue, the interstices of which are occupied Ij}^ spread-out cells. Its outer surface is covered by a layer of endothelium. On its inner surface it gives off mimerous bundles of fibres which form trabeculse and traverse the sub-arachnoid spaces ; both the surface of the membrane and the trabeculas are covered by endothelial cells. Cerebro-Spinal Fluid.—This is a limpid fluid, slightly alkaline in reaction, containing albumen, a trace of grape sugar, and the salts of the blood. The pia mater is an areolo-vascular membrane composed of in- numerable vessels held together by fine bundles of connective tissue. It invests the whole surface of the brain, dipping into the sulci be- t\\ ^een the convolutions, and forming a fold in its interior called velum interjoositum. It also forms folds in other situations, as in the third and fourth ventricles, and in the anterior fissure of the spinal cord. This membrane differs in structure in different parts of the cerebro-spinal axis. Thus, on the surface of the cerebrum, in contact with tlie soft grey matter of the brain, it is extremely vas-