PLEUE^ AND MEDIASTINA. 693 PLEURA. Each lung is enclosed and its structure supported by a sei'ous membrane, the pleura, which invests it as far as the root, and is then reflected on the parietes of the chest. That portion of the membrane which is in relation with the lung is called pleura pid- monalis, and that in contact with the parietes, pleura costalis. The pulmonary pleura is very thin, is elastic, and inseparably connected with the structure of the lung ; the costal pleura is thick and strong, has very little elasticity, and can be readily strij)ped off the ribs and intercostal muscles which it covers. The latter, besides forming the internal lining to the ribs and intercostal muscles, also covers the diaphragm and thoracic surface of the vessels at the root of the neck, extending for somewhat more than an inch above the margin of the first rib. At the lower border of the root of the lung is a fold of the pleura, which extends down by the side of the posterior mediastinum to the diaphragm, and serves to retain the low'er part of the lung in jDOsition. This fold is the broad ligament of the lung, ligamentum latum pulmonis. At the right side, where the diaphragm is pressed uj)wards by the liver, the cavity of the j)leura is shorter than on the left; while the left pleural cavity, in consequence of the encroachment of the heart on the left side of the chest, is narrower than the right. The right pleura extends at its' anterior limit to the lower border of the seventh rib, in the axillary line to the ninth rib, and behind to the eleventh rib. The left pleura reaches to a lower level all round than the right; in the axillary line it touches the lower border of the tenth rib. MEDIASTINUM. The two pleural sacs do not communicate with each other, but liave between them a space which contains all the viscera of the chest with the exception of the lungs. This is called the inter- pleural space or mediastinum. The mediastinum is divided into an anterior, middle, posterior, and superior portion. The anterior mediastinum is a triangular space, bounded in front by the sternum, triangularis sterni, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles ; behind by the pericardium and the remains of the thymus gland, and at each side by the pleura. It contains a quantity of "loose areolar tissue, in which are found some lymphatic vessels passing upwards from the liver, and mediastinal lymphatic glands. Dissection of the anterior mediastinum.—This space is best displayed by (i) dividing the sternum transversely on a level Avith the lower border of the first costal cartilages ; (2) dividing the same bone transversely between the fifth and sixth costal cartilages ; (3) cutting the sternum obliquely, commencing iiear the light end of the first cut,_ and terminating at the left end of the second. The two halves of the sternum can now be separated and the anterior mediastinum exjjosed. (Turner.)