PRONATOR RADII TERES. 327 of that bone. Tlie three heads, passing downwards in different directions, unite to form a broad muscle, which is inserted into the olecranon process of the ulna, and sends an expansion to the deep fascia of the forearm. A small bursa is situated between the tendon of the muscle and the upper part of the olecranon. Beneath the lower part of the triceps are two small fasciculi arising from the humerus, and descending one on either side of the fossa of the olecranon to be inserted into the capsule of the elbow-joint. These have been named sub-anconeus; they are analogous to the sub-crureus. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the deep and superficial fascia and integument. By its anterior surface with the superior profunda artery, muscido-spiral nerve, humerus, intermuscular septa which separate it from the brachialis anticus, and elbow-joint. The scapidar head is in relation posteriorly with the deltoid and teres minor ; anteriorly with the subscapularis, teres major, and latissi- mus dorsi ; and externally with the posterior circumflex vessels and nerve. Nerve-supply.—The musculo-spiral nerve. Actions.—The triceps brachii is an extensor of the forearm. When the arm has been raised at the shoulder, the long head assists the teres major and latissimus dorsi, in drawing it down again to the side of the chest. Anterior Brachial Region. Superficial Layer. Pronator radii teres. Flexor carpi radialis, Palmaris longus. Flexor sublimis digitorum. Flexor carpi ulnaris. Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view by making an incision through the integument along the middle line of the fore- arm, crossing each extremity by a transverse incision, and turning aside the flaps. The superficial and deep fascia are then to be removed. The PRONATOR RADII TERES arises by two heads : one from the anterior aspect of the inner condyle of the humerus, fascia of the forearm, and intermuscular se])ttim ; the other from the inner side of the coronoid process of the ulna ; the median nerve passing between them. Its tendon is flat, and is inserted into the middle of the outer side of the shaft of the I'adius. The two heads of this muscle are l)est examined hy cutting through that which rises from the inner condyle, and turning it aside. The second head will then he seen with the median nerve lying across it. Relations.—Bv its antei 'lOr SUrfaCP. with flip rlpi:>ii fnecin nf tlio