599 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. The SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION (Meckel's), the largest of the cranial ganglia of the sympathetic, is situated in the spheno-maxillary fossa, a little below the superior maxillary nerve. It is of small size, of a reddish-grey colour, and triangular in shape; and is placed on the posterior part of the spheno-palatine nerves which it only partially involves. Its branches are divisible into four groups : ascending, descending, internal, and posterior. The ascending branches are three or four small filaments which are distributed to the periosteum of the orbit. One of these branches sometimes joins the ophthalmic ganglion, one the sixth nerve, and two the optic nerve. The descending branches are the three palatine nerves—anterior, middle, and jjosterior. The anterior or large palatine nerve descends from the ganglion through the descending palatine canal, and emerges at the posterior palatine foramen. It then passes forward in a groove in the hard j)alate, to the mucous membrane of which it is distril^uted, and reaches the incisive foramen, where it communicates with the naso-palatine nerve. While in the descending palatine canal, this nerve gives off several branches {inferior nasal), which enter the nose through open- ings in the palate bone, and are distributed to the middle and inferior meatus, inferior spongy bone, and antrum. The middle or external palatine nerve descends externally to the j>receding to the posterior palatine foramen, and distributes branches to the tonsil, soft ]Dalate, and uvula. The posterior or small palatine nerve quits the other nerves to enter a distinct canal, from which it emerges by a separate open- ing behind the posterior palatine foramen. It is distributed to the hard j^alate and gums near the point of its emergence, and also to the tonsil, soft palate, and uvula. The middle and posterior pala- tine nerves join with the branches of the glosso-pharyngeal in the formation of a plexus around the tonsil. The internal branches are the superior nasal and naso-palatine. The superior nasal nerves, four or five in number, enter the nasal fossa tlirough the spheno-palatine foramen, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the superior meatus, and superior and middle spongy bone. They are formed almost entirely by filaments derived from the superior maxillary nerve, which do not pass through Meckel's ganglion. The naso-palatine nerve (Scarpa) enters the nasal fossa through the spheno-palatine foramen, and crosses the roof of the nares to reach the septum, to which it gives filaments. It then curves downwards and forwards along the vomer, to the naso-palatine canal, and passes through that canal to the palate, to which and to the papilla behind the incisor teeth it is distributed. The two nerves are contained in canals situated at the junction of the two superior maxillary bones, termed the canals of Scarpa ; the right nerve is placed behind, the left in front. This nerve was described by Cloquet as uniting with its fellow in the naso-palatine canal and