49 VEINS. VEINS. The veins care tlie vessels which return tlie hlood to the heart, after it has been circuhxted by tlie arteries through the various tissues of the body. They are much thinner in structure than the arteries, so that when emptied of their blood they become flattened and collapsed. The -veins of tlie systemic circulation convey the dark-coloured and impure or venous blood from the capillary system to the right auricle of the heart, and they are found after death to be more or less dis- tended witli that fluid. The veins of the pulmonary circulation contain during life the pure or arterial blood, which they transmit fro]n the capillaries of the lungs to the left auricle. The veins commence by minute branches which are continuous with the cajjillaries, and convei'ge to constitute larger and larger brandies, till they terminate in the main trunks which convey the venous 1.)lood directly to the heart. In diameter they are larger than the arteries, and, like those vessels, their coml)ined arese would con- stitute a hollow cone, whereof the apex is placed at the heart, and the base at the surface of the body. It follows from this arrange- ment, that the blood in returning to the heart is jiassing from a larger into a smaller channel, and therefore that it increases in rapidity during its course. Veins admit of division into superficial and deep. The Sui)erficial veins return the blood from the integunient and superficial structures, and take their course between the layers of the superficial fascia ; they then pierce the deep fascia in the most convenient and protected situations, and terminate in the deep veins. They are unaccompanied by arteries, and are the vessels usually selected for venesection. Tlie Deep veins are situated among the deeper structures of the body, and generally in relation with the arteries ; in the limbs they are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and they return the venous blood from the capillaries of the deep tissues. In com- pany with all the smaller, and also with the secondary arteries, as the ])rachial, radial, and ulnar in the upper, and the tibial and peroneal in the lower extremity, there are two veins placed one at each side of the artery, and named vencti comites. The larger arteries, as the axillary, subclavian, carotid, popliteal, femoral, are accom- panied by a single venous trunk ; and certain veins, such as those of the cranium, spinal canal, liver, and larger veins of bones, run apart from arteries. The communications between veins are more frequent than those ol ai'teries, and they take place between the larger as well as the smaller vessels ; the vena) comites communicate with each other in their course by means of short transvei'se branches which pass across from one to the otlier. The ottice of these inosculations is very apparent, as tending to obviate the obstructions to which veins are D