795 ROUND LIGAMENTS. nancy, false corpora lutea, disappear in tlie course of one or two luontlis, and leave behind them a scarcely perceptible trace of their existence. Formation of Ova.—The ova are formed from the germ epithe- lium on the surface of the ovary, the cells becoming enlarged and penetrating into the substance of the ovum as shown at ^/, Fig. 490. After passing downwards for a short distance they lose their surface connection, and become enveloped by layers of condensed stroma constituting the walls of the Graafian vesicles ; the germ cell thus comes to form the ovum, its nucleus the germinal vesicle, and a nucleolus which soon appears in the centre of the nucleus the germinal spot. The cells of the membrana granulosa are the pro- duct of the nuclei of the fibro-nuclear tissue forming the stroma. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the ovaries are branches of the uterine and ovarian. The arteries enter the ovary along its inferior border by numerous minute trunks, which pass in a serpen- tine course through its stroma, to be distributed chiefly to the walls of the ovisacs, forming an exterior coarse and interior fine capillary plexus. The veins constitute an ovarian plexus, which terminates in the uterine plexus. The lymphatics, few in number, terminate in the pelvic and lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the spermatic plexus, and take the course of the arteries. The ROUND LIGAMENTS are two niusculo-fibrous cords between four and five inches long, situated within the layers of the broad ligaments, and extending from the upper angles of the uterus and along the inguinal canals to the mons Veneris, in which they are lost. They are composed of smooth muscular fibre and areolar tissue, but towards the internal abdominal rings, have also numei'ous fasciculi of striated muscular fibres. The round ligaments are accompanied by a small artery, by several filaments of the spermatic plexus of nerves, by a plexus of veins, and by a process of the peritoneum which represents the serous membrane investing the spermatic coi'd in the male. In the young subject, this process extends for a short distance along the spermatic canal, and is deno- minated the canal of Nuck : it is sometimes pervious in the adult. The round ligaments serve to retain the uterus in position in the pelvis, and, during utero-gestatioii, to draw the anterior surface of the organ against the abdominal parietes. EXTERNAL ORGANS OF GENERATION. The female organs of generation are divisible into internal and external; the internal are contained within the pelvis, and have been already descriljed ; they are—the vagina, uterus, ovaries, and Fallopian tubes. The external organs are the mons Veneris, lal)ia majora, labia minora, clitoris, meatus urinarius, and opening of the vagina. • The mons Veneris is the eminence of integument, situated on