6i4 ORGANS OF SENSE. the middle meatus ; and that Ijetweeu tlie inferior and the floor of the fossa, the inferior meatus. ^ The openings into these spaces have been described along with the | bones of the skull, p. 129. It should, however, be noted that two 1 of the openings there mentioned, namelv, the spheno-palatine and ! anterior palatine foramina, are not seen" in the recent state, being ! covered by the mucous membrane. In the position of the anterior { palatine canal there is, not unfrequently, a small csecal tube, the remains of a structure present in the man during embryonic life, and called the organ of Jacohson. This organ is present in mammals generally in adult life, and appears as a double tube in the nasal septum, supported by a plate of cartilage, the cartilage of Jacohson. ■ The mucous membrane of the nasal fossa3 is called j^ituitary, or Schneiclcrian; the former name being derived from the nature of its secretion, the latter from Schneider, who was the first to show that the secretion of the nose proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not from the brain, as was previously imagined. It is closely adherent to the periosteum, constituting what is called a fibro- mucous membrane, and is continuous with the general gastro - pulmonary mucous membrane. From the nasal fosspe it may be traced throiigh the openings in the meatuses, into the sphenoidal and ethmoidal cells ; into the frontal sinuses ; into the antrum maxillare ; through the nasal duct to the surface of the eye, where it is con- tinuous with the conjunctiva ; along the Eustacliian tulles into the tym- panum and mastoid cells, to which it and through the posterior nares into the pharynx and mouth, and tlience through the lungs and alimen- tary canal. Bigelow has pointed out that the mucous membrane covering the middle and inferior turbinated bones contains a true cavernous structure, similar to that of the corpus cavernosum penis. The cavernous spaces are irregular in shajje and variable in size; they approach quite near to the surface of the mucous membrane and the bone, and they communicate freely with eacli other. The surface of the membrane is furnished with laminated squa- mous epithelium near the aperture of the nares, and with ciliated columnar epithelium in the respiratory tract; in the latter it is also furnished with mucous glands, which are especially numerous on the septum at its posterior part. The mucous membrane whicli covers the upper and middle turl)inated bones and the up])er jiart of the se])tum (the olfactory tract) is of a darker colour, softer and more pulpy, its epithelium is columnar and non-ciliated, and tlio Fig. 351.—A section of the mucous membrane in the olfactory re- gion. 1. Coloured part of the epitlielium. 2. Nucleus. 3. Deeper parf., containing olfactory- cells and filaments. 4. Connec- tive tissue. 5, 5. Mucous glands. 6, 6. Nerve twigs giving off ter- minal branches. forms the lining membrane ;