621 GLOBE OF THE EYE. prevents the tears being driven back wlien sucli pressure is applied, as in winking ; and as a consequence they are then driven forward into the lachrymal sac. The two fasciculi of the tensor tarsi muscle are inserted into the canaliculi, and serve to draw them iuAvards and compress them. The lachrymal sac is the dilated upper extremity of the nasal duct. It is lodged in the groove of the lachrymal bone, and is often distinguished internally from the nasal duct by a semilunar or cir- cular valve. The sac consists of mucous membrane, but is covered in and retained in place by a fibrous expansion, derived from the tendon of the orbicularis, which is inserted into the ridge on the lachrymal bone ; it is also covered by the tensor tarsi muscle, which arises from the same ridge, and when in action makes pressure on the lachrymal sac. The nasal duct is a short canal, about three-quarters of an inch in length, directed downwards, backwards, and a little outwards to the inferior meatus of the nose, into which it opens. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous with the conjunctiva above, and with the j)ituitary membrane of the nose below ; it frequently forms an imperfect valve (valve of Hasner) at the lower opening of the duct. The mucous membrane of tbe canaliculi is covered by a stratified scaly epithelium, and that of the lachrymal sac and nasal duct by columnar ciliated cells. Vessels and Nerves.—The lachrymal gland is supplied with blood by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic artery, with nerves by the lachrymal branch of the ophthalmic, and the orbital branch of the superior maxillary. GLOBE OF THE EYE. The globe or ball of the eye is irregularly spheroidal in form, liaving the segment of a smaller sphere (the cornea) projecting from it anteriorly, and being slightly flattened behind. Its transverse diameter is about 24 mm., the horizontal 23.5 mm., and the vertical 23.1 mm. Around the eyeball is a layer of fascia which separates it from the fat of the orbit, and enables it to move smoothly ; this is the so-called tunica vaginalis oculi, or capsule of Tenon; it is pierced by the tendons of the straight and oblique muscles, and is connected with the sclerotic by means of delicate fibrous threads. The globe of the eye is composed of a strong external fibrous coat, called the sclerotic, with its clear anterior portion, the cornea; a middle vascular and pigmentary covering, the choroid, which is also continued forwards to form a partition, the iris; and an internal nervous tunic, the retina. It encloses certain refracting media, for the purpose of bringing rays of light to a focus on the retina ; these are the vitreous and aqueoxhs humour, and the cnjstalline lens. External Tunic—Sclerotic—The sclerotic ((r/(X7;p6?,hard) forms the outer covering of the posterior four-fifths of the globe of the