VEINS OF THE NECK. 459 Tlie anterior jugular vein conmiences on the os liyoides by several small veins and by a branch from the temporo-maxillary, and passes downwards along the mid-line of the neck to the sternum ; it then turns outwards behind the lower part of the sterno-mastoid and opens into the subclavian vein, near the termination of the external jugular. The two veins communicate with each other, and with the external and internal jugular veins. The anterior jugular is very variable in size, sometimes almost or entirely replacing the external jugular, and at others being represented only by a few small branches. The internal jugular vein, formed by the convergence of the lateral and inferior petrosal sinus, commences at the under surface of the jugular foramen on each side of the base of the skull, by a considerable dilatation (the bulb of the internal jugular vein), and descends the side of the neck, lying, in the first instance, to the outer side of the internal carotid, then on the outer side of the common carotid artery to the root of the neck, where it unites with the subclavian, and constitutes the innominate vein. At its com- mencement, the internal jugular vein is posterior and external to the internal carotid artery and eighth, ninth, and tenth pairs of nerves, the hypoglossal nerve being behind it; lower down, the vein and artery are on the same plane, the glosso-pharyngeal and hypoglossal nerves passing forwards between them, the pneumogastric being be- tween and behind in the same sheath, and the spinal accessory nerve, crossing obliquely behind or before the vein at its upper part. It is provided with a pair of valves, placed near its termination. The tributaries which the internal jugular receives in its course are—pharyngeal, lingual, deep division of the temporo-maxillary, facial, middle thyroid, and sometimes the occipital. The vertebral vein descends by the side of the vertebral artery, in the canal formed by the foramina in the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, and at the root of the neck opens into the subclavian vein close to its termination. In the lower part of the vertebral canal it frequently divides into two branches, one of which advances forwards, while the other passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, before open- ing into the subclavian vein. On the right side it crosses the first part of the subclavian artery. The tributaries which it receives in its course are the posterior condylar vein, muscular veins, cervical meningo-rachidian veins, and near its termination the superficial and deep cervical veins. The inferior thyroid veins, two, and frequently more in number, are situated one on each side of the trachea, and receive the venous blood from the thyroid gland. They communicate with each other, and with the middle and superior thyroid veins, and form a plexus on the front of the trachea. The right vein terminates in the right innominate vein, just at its union with the superior cava ; the left in the left innominate vein.