597 SYMPATHETIC NEKVES. SYMPATHETIC NEEVES. The sympathetic consists of a vertebral and prevertebral portion. Tlie vertebral portion is composed of a series of ganglia united by a longitudinal cord ; it descends along each side of the vertebral column from the head to the coccyx, communicates with the cranial and spinal nerves, and distributes branches to the internal organs and viscera. The prevertebral portion is that part of the sympa- thetic which appertains to the viscera, comprising the numerous ganglia and plexuses of the head, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The sympathetic nerve communicates with the cerebro-sjiinal nerves immediately at their exit from the cranium and vertebral canal. With the fourth and sixth nerve, however, it unites in the cavernous sinus; with the olfactory in the nose ; and with the auditory in the meatus auditorius internus. The branches of distriliution accompany the arteries which suj)ply the different organs, and form communications around them which are called plexuses, and take the name of the artery with which they are associated ; thus we have the mesenteric plexus, hepatic plexus, and splenic plexus. The chief ganglia in the head are four in number ; namely, the ophthalmic or lenticular, the spheno-palatine or Meckel's, the otic or Arnold's, and the submaxillary ; three in the neck, superior, middle, and inferior cervical; twelve in the dorsal region ; four in the lumbar region ; and four or five in the sacral region. Each ganglion may be considered as a distinct centre, recei^dng and giving branches in four different directions, viz., superior or ascending, to communicate with the ganglion above ; inferior or descending, to communicate with the ganglion below ; external, to communicate with the spinal nerves ; and internal, to communicate with the sympathetic filaments of the opposite side, and be distributed to the viscera. As regards the spinal nerves it receives as well as gives, the white fibres of the sympathetic being derived from the cerebro- spinal nerves. CRANIAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. Cranial Ganglia. Ophthalmic, or lenticular ganglion, Spheno-palatine, or Meckel's ganglion, Otic, or Arnold's ganglion, Submaxillary ganglion. The OPHTHALMIC GANGLION {ciliary; lenticular) is a small quadrangular and flattened ganglion situated within the orbit, between the optic nerve and external rectus muscle ; it is in close * relation with the optic nerve and generally with the ophthalmic