TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT. Fig. 214.—Diagrammatic view of the anterior layer of the triangular ligament and the structures passing through it. I. Process passing down to central tendinous point. 2. Triangular ligament. 3. Doi-sal vein of penis. 4. Urethra. 5. Dorsal artery. 6. Artery of corpus eaver- nosum. 7. Artery of bulb. 8. Duct of Cowper's gland, g. Internal pudic artery. ramus of the pubes and iscliiuni. At the posterior border of the transver.salis perinei muscle, it has attached to it the deep layer of the superficial fascia, and with it. is prolonged back on tlie levator ani muscle, as the anal fascia. At an inch and a half from the symphysis pubis, in the middle line, it is connected to the central tendinous point of the perineum. About an inch below the symphysis pubis it is pierced for the passage of the membranous jjortion of the urethra, which is contained between it and the parietal layer of the pelvic fascia behind. Immediately below the sub-pubic ligament the dorsal vein of the penis passes back through it to join the jirostatic plexus, and on each side, a little in front of this, the pudic arteries jDass through it to enter the corpora cavernosa penis. Between this liga- ment and the pelvic fascia are situated the compressor urethraj muscle, the internal pudic arteries, the arteries of the corjjus cavernosum, dorsiim of the penis and bidb, Cowper's glands, the membranous part of the urethra, the dorsal vein of the penis, the dor- sal nerve, lymphatic vessels, and a plexus of veins. Sometimes the triangular ligament is described as consisting of two layers, anterior and jjosterior, the former being the deep perineal fascia, and the latter the layer of j)elvic fascia passing across the pelvic arch. When the ligament is thus described, the structures above enumerated are said to be placed between the two layers of the triangular ligament. The BULBO-CAVERNOSI {acceleratores urince) arise from a tendin- ous point in the centre of the perineum, and from the fibrous rapW of the two muscles. From tliis origin the fibres diverge like the barbs of a j)en ; the posterior to be inserted into the triangular liga- ment ; the middle, to encircle the corpus spongiosum and meet on its upper side ; the anterior, to spread out on the corpus cavernosum at each side, and be inserted partly into its fibrous structure, and partly into the fascia on the dorsum of the penis. The posterior and middle insertions of these muscles are best seen by carefully raising one muscle from the corpus spongiosum and tracing its fibres. The ISCHIO-CAVERNOSUS (erector penis) arises from the tuberositv of the ischium and from the ramus of the pubes behind the extremity of the crus, and curves around the root of the penis ; to be inserted into the upper surface of the corpus cavernosum, where it is con- tinuous with a strong fascia which covers the dorsum of the organ, the fascia jjenis. Nerve-supply.—Th(; jieriueal 1)ranch of the pudic nerve supplies the acceleratores uriiuc and the erector tomiis.