797 VESTIBULE OF THE VAGINA. The corpus cavernosum clitoridis, like that of the penis, is composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, and is susceptible of erection. Like the penis, also, it is provided with two small muscles, the erectores clitoridis. At about an inch behind the clitoris, is the entrance of the vagina, an elliptical opening, marked by a prominent margin. Tlie entrance to the vagina is closed in the virgin by a duplicature of mucous membrane of a semilunar form, which is stretched across the opening ; this is the hymen. Sometimes the membrane forms a comj)lete septum, and gives rise to inconvenience by preventing the escape of the menstrual effusion. It is then called an imper- forate hymen. The hymen must not be considered a necessary accompaniment of virginity, for its existence is uncertain. Wlien present, it assumes a variety of appearances ; it may be a mem- branous fringe, with round opening in the centre ; or a semilunar fold, leaving an opening in front ; or a transverse septum, having an opening both in front and behind ; or a vertical band with an opening at each side. The rupture of the hymen, or its rudimentary existence, gives rise to the appearance of a fringe of papillae around the opening of the vagina ; these are called carunculse msrrtiformes. The triangular smooth surface between the clitoris and the en- trance of the vagina, which is bounded at each side by the upj)er portions of the nymphte, is the vestibule. At the posterior jjart of the vestibule and near the margin of the vagina is the opening of the urethra, the meatus urinarius ; and around tlie meatus an elevation of the mucous membi'ane formed by the aggregation of numerous mucous glands. This prominence serves as a guide to finding the meatus in the operation of in- troducing the female catheter. Beneath the vestibule at each side, and extending from the clitoris to the side of the \-agina, are two oblong or pyriform bodies, consisting of erectile tissue enclosed in a tliiu layer of fibrous membrane. These bodies are narrow above, broad and rounded below, and are teraied by Kobelt, who considers them analogous to the bulb of the male urethra, the bulbi vestibuli. Beliind these bodies and lying against the outer wall of the vagina are two small glands, analogous to Cowjier's glands in the male subject; they are the glands of Bar- tholin or Duvernay. Each gland opens by means of a long excre- tory duct on the inner side of the corresponding nympha. In front of the masses of erectile tissue forming the bulb of the vestibule is a smaller plexus of vessels continuous with those of that body behind and with the erectile tissue of the glans clitoridis in front ; it has been named by Kobelt the pars intermedia, and is supjDosed to cor- res]5ond with that part of the corpus spongiosum penis lying in front of the bulb of the urethra in the male. The mucous membrane of the external organs, about a quarter of a line in thickness, is composed of areolar and elastic tissue, without fat, and rich in capillary vessels. It is furnished with