304 TRIANGULAK LIGAMENT. t inued backwards on the outer surface of the levator ani, to join the anal tascia. It is continued forwards to blend with the deep fascia ot the penis. In the middle line it has on its deep aspect a septal prolongation, complete behind but incomplete in front, so that air or lluid injected beneath the fascia would fill up one side of the pouch which It foi-ms, then passing forwards to where the septum is incomplete, would infiltrate tlie other side. The attachment of the membranous layer to the deep perineal fascia explains why an ex- travasation of fluid under that membrane could not pass back into Fig. 213.—The pubic arch and perineal fascise. The corpora cavernosi and corpus spongiosum with the muscles wliich lie upon them, as well as the vessels and nerves, have been removed, i, i, i. The deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia divided by a A-shaped incision into tliree flaps ; the hiteral flaps are turned over tlie ramus of the pubes and ischium at each side, to which tliey are firmly attached ; the posterior flap is continuous with the deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament. 2. The triangular ligament of the urethra. 3. Opening for the passage of the membranous portion of the urethra, previously to the entrance of the latter into the bulb. 4. Two projections of the triangular ligament corresponding with the position of Cowper's glands. the jDOsterior half of the perineum, but could find its way, as it often does, into the scrotum and up over the abdomen. Muscular Triangle.—The space between Colles' fascia and the triangidar ligament is occupied by the bulb of the urethra, corpus spongiosum, crura penis, bulbo-cavernosi, ischio-cavernosi and traiis- versus perinei muscles, antei'ior and posterior superficial perineal nerves, superficial perineal and transverse perineal vessels, and a few lymphatic vessels. The deep perineal fascia or triangular ligament of the urethra is a strong ajjoneurotic sheet which is stretched across the inter-pnbic arch. It is attached firmly to the sub-pubic ligament, and to the