SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. I lO maxillaiy fissure ; and, anteriorly, by a convex margin, partly smootli and partly rough, the smooth portion forming part of the lower border of the orbit, the rough portion articulating with the maUr bone. The middle of this surface is channelled hj a deep gi-oove and canal, the infraorbital, which terminates at the infraorlntal foramen ; and near the root of the nasal process is a slight de- pression, marking the origin of the inferior oblique muscle of the eyeball. The four processes of the superior maxillary bone are, the nasal, malar, alveolar, and palate. The nasal process ascends hj the side of the nose, to which it forms the lateral boundary, and articulates with the frontal and nasal bones. By its external surface it gives attachment to the levator lahii superioris alceque nasi, and to the orUcularis palpebrarum muscle. Its internal surface contributes to form the outer wall of the nares, and is marked transversely by a horizontal ridge, sujierior turbinal crest, wliich divides it into two portions, one above the ridge irregular and uneven, for giving attachment to and completing the cells of the lateral mass of the ethmoid ; the other below, smooth and concave, corresponding with the middle meatus. The posterior border is thick, and grooved for the nasal duct; while the prominent margin in front of that groove is continuous with the lower border of the orbit; this margin is marked by a small tubercle {lachrymal tubercle), which serves as a guide to the introduction of the knife in opening into the lachrymal sac. The malar process, large and irregular, is situated at the angle of separation between the facial and zygomatic surface, and presents a triangular surface for articulation with the malar bone. The alveolar process forms the lower margin of the bone ; it is spongy and cellular in texture, and excavated into deep holes for the reception of eight teeth. By its outer surface, as far forwards as the first niolar tooth, it gives oiigin to the buccinator muscle. The ante- rior portion containing the sockets of the incisor teeth, together with a small jiortion of the palate process, has a separate centre of ossifica- tion, and in the lower animals remains separate througlioTit life as the intermaxillary or premaxillary bone. In young human skulls, a fissure riinning backwards from the outer edge of the second incisor nearly to the incisive foramen, indicates the line of junction of the premaxillary l^one with the rest of the maxilla ; and in cases of cleft palate (there hehig an arrest of development) this ])ortion is present as a distinct bone. The palate process is thick and strong, and projects horizontally inwards from the inner surface of tlie body of the bone. Superiorly, it is concave and smooth, and forms the floor of the nares ; inferiorli/, it is also concave, but uneven, and assists in the formation of tlie roof of the palate. The latter surface is marked by a deep groove, wliich lodges the antei'ior palatine nerve and artery. Its internal edge is raised into a ridge (nasal or palate crest), which, with a corresjionding ridge in the opposite bone, forms a grooA^e for the reception of the