490 SPINAL CORD. Fig 291. — Transverse section of the spinal cord, showing the roots of the spinal nerves, i. Anterior root. 2. Posterior root, witli its ganglion. internal. Experiments on animals, and observation of areas of degeneration after disease or injury in man, have, however, demon- strated that physiologically the columns or tracts are more nume- rous than this, and the following, briefly stated, are those generally recognised :—The inner portion of the anterioi' column bordering on the anterior median fissuie is known as the direct ^niraniidal tract or column of Tiirck (Fig. 290, 10) ; the rest of the anterior column is called the anterior root zone or hods bundle (11). On the surface of the lateral part of the cord, extend- ing forwards from the posterioi- nerve roots, is a thin bundle of fibres called the direct lateral cerebellar tract (15), and beneath this a thicker mass of fibres, the crossed pyramidal tract (13), between which and the grey matter is a thin layer called the lateral limiting layer ^ close to the lateral J'-^'J reticular formation (16) ; the rest of the lateral column is called the mixed zone, but this has been again diWded into the deep part or anterior (jround fibres (i2)j and the superficial part, the antero - lateral sen- sory tract (14). The posterior column1 ^ ah'eady described, is div'ided into the postero-external or column of Bur- dach (17), and the postero - internal or column of Goll (18). Origin of the Nerves. — The spinal nerves arise by two roots, the distinctiA'^e ohai- acters of whicli, outside the spinal cord, will be de- scribed hereafter: Fio. 292.—Diagram illustrating the paths probably taken by the fibres of the nerve-roots on entering the spinal cord (Schiifer). a.m./. Anterior median fissure. p.m.f. Posterior median fissui'e. c.c. Central canal. S.Jl. Sub- stantia gelatinosa of Rolando, a.a. Funiculi of anterior root of a nerve, p. Funiculus of posterior root of a nerve. By following the fibres i, 2, 3, Aic, their coiirse tb rough the grey matter of the spinal cord may be traced. their connection with the nerve centre is here noted. The anterior roots pass through the substance of the white