LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. I97 ■which, pass obliquely across the union of the two bones from side to side, and form an interlacement in front of the symphysis. The posterior pubic ligament consists of a few irregular bands of fibres uniting the pubic bones posteriorly. The superior pubic ligament is a thick band of fibres connecting the angles of the pubes superiorly, and filling the inequalities of the surface of the bones. The sub-pubic ligament is a thick arch of fibres connecting the two bones inferiorly, and forming the upper boundary of the pubic arch. The interosseous fibro-cartilage unites the two surfaces of the pubic bones in the same manner as the intervertebral substance con- nects the bodies of the vertebrae. It resembles the intervertebral substance also in being composed of oblique fibres disposed in con- centric layers, which are more dense towards the surface than near the centre. It is thick in front, and thin behind ; and a synovial membrane is found in the upper and posterior j)art of the articulation. This articulation becomes movable towards the latter term of pregnancy, and admits of a slight degree of separation of its sur- faces. The obturator membrane is not a ligament of articulation, but simply a ligamentous membrane stretched across the obturator fora- men. It gives attachment by its surfaces to the two obturator muscles, and leaves a space in the upper part of the foramen for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. LIGAMENTS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The ligaments of the upper extremity may be arranged in the order of the articulations of the difterent bones ; they are :— 1. Sterno-clavicular articula- 8. Articulation between the tion. carpal bones. 2. Scapulo-clavicular articula- 9. Carpo-metacarpal articula- tion, tions. 3. Ligaments of the scapula. 10. Metacarpo - phalangeal arti- 4. ^ Shoulder-joint. culations. 5. Elbow-joint. ii. Articulations of the pha- 6. Riidio-ulnar articulations. langes. 7. Wrist-joint. I. STERNO-CLAVICULAR ARTICULATION.—The sterno-clavicu- lar is an arthrodial articulation ; its ligaments are :— Anterior sterno-clavicular, Inter-clavicular, Posterior sterno-clavicular, Costo-clavicular (rhomboid), Interarticular fibro-cartilage, Two synovial membranes. The anterior sterno-clavicular ligament is a broad ligamen-