332 ACTIONS OF FLEXOR MUSCLES OF FOREARM. extends from a little above tlie annulai- ligament to about the middle of the palm. Tlie .smaller sheath surrounds the flexoi- longus pollicis, and extends from above the annulai- ligament to the base of the second phalanx of the thumb. Between the two sheaths the median nerve lies, or it may occupy the larger sheath along with the flexor tendons. Each of the iingers lias a digital synovial sheath commencing above the metacarpo-phalangeal joint and terminating at the base of the last phalanx ; the digital sheath of the little finger generally communicates with the common sheatli Ijeneath the annular ligament. The commonest variations in tlie synovial sheaths are shown in Fig. 229. Nerve-supply.—Anterior interosseous, a branch of the median. Dissection.—If the tendons of the last two muscles be drawn aside or divided, the third muscle of this group will be brought iuto A'iew, lying across the lower part of the two Ijoues. The PRONATOR QUADRATUS arises from the anterior and inner side of the ulna, and is inseried into the front of the radius. This muscle occupies about the lower fourth of the two bones, is broad at its origin, and narrower at its insertion. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the tendons of the supi- nator longus, flexor carpi radialis, flexor longus pollicis, flexor pro- fundus digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris, radial artery and veins, and ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its -posterior surface with the radius, ubia, and interosseous membrane. Nerve-supply.—Anterior interosseous, a branch of the median. Actions.—The pronator radii teres and pronator quadratus rotate the radius upon the ulna, and render the hand prone. The remain- ing muscles are flexors : two flexors of the wrist, flexor carpi radialis and ulnaris ; two of the fingers, flexor sublimis and profundus, the former flexing the second phalanges, the latter the last; one flexor of the last phalanx of the thumb, flexor longus pollicis. The palmaris longus is primarily a tensor of the palmar fascia, and secondly a flexor of the wrist and forearm. The muscles which arise from the internal condyle of the humerus act as flexors of the elbow-joiut, those which pass to the radial side of the hand and arm being more effective in this respect than the muscles on the ulnar side. The flexor carpi ulnaris is an effective pronator in the early part of its action, and when the hand is j^laced in the position of supination. The superficial and deep flexors of the fingers assist in producing flexion of the wrist, after the flexion of the fingers is completed, or when the fingers are fixed by being pressed against an opposing surface. Posterior Brachial Region. Superficial Layer. Supinator longus. Extensor minimi digiti, Extensor carpi radialis longior, Extensor carpi ulnaris, Extensor carpi radialis brevior, Anconeus. Extensor communis digitorum,