578 DORSAL NERVES. muscular and cutaneous branches, the trunk of the nerve gives off an articular branch, which enters the shoulder-joint at its posterior and under part. DORSAL NERVES. The dorsal nerves are twelve in number at each side, the fiisi appearing between the first and second dorsal vertebra, the last between the twelfth dorsal and first lumbar. They are smallei- than the lower cervical nerves, diminish gradually in size from tlie first to the tenth, and then increase to the twelfth. Each nerve, as soon as it has escaped from the intervertebral foramen, sej^arates into an anterior and posterior division ; the anterior divisions being the intercostal nerves, the posterior the dorsal branches of the dorsal nerves. M The dorsal branches pass directly Ijackwards between the trans-1 verse processes of the vertebrae, lying internally to the anterior ■ costo-transvei'se ligament, and each nerve divides into an mternalm and external branch. The intcryial branches diminish in size fromH the first to the last. The six upper branches pass inwards between I the semi-spinalis dorsi and multifidus spinte, and, piercing theB rhomboid, trapezius, and latissimus dorsi, become cutaneous close ■ to the spinous jorocesses, and are then reflected outwards to supplyH the integument. The six lower branches are lost in the muscles offl the spine. H The external branches increase in size from above downwards, andfl make their appearance in the line of separation between the longis^B simus dorsi and sacro-lumbalis. The six upper branches are dis^| tributed to those muscles and the levatores costarum. The si^H lower, after supplying the same muscles, pierce the serratus iDOsticui^B inferior and latissimus dorsi in a line with the angles of the rib^H and becoming cutaneous, are directed downwards and forwards ove^f the side of the trunk. INTERCOSTAL NERVES.—The anterior cords of the dorsa" nerves, twelve in number at each side, are the intercostal nerves. Each intercostal nerve passes outwards in the intercostal sjiace iu company with the intercostal vessels, below which it lies ; at the commencement of its course it rests on the external intercostal muscle ; farther outwards it is placed between the two planes of intercostal muscles ; beyond the middle of the rib it enters the sub- stance of the internal intercostal and reaches its inner surface, being in contact with the pleura ; finally, at the anterior extremity of the intercostal space, it crosses in front of tlie triangularis stern i and internal mammary vessels, and piercing the internal intei-costal muscle and pectoralis major, is distributed to the integument of the front of the chest and mammary gland, under the name of anterior cutaneous. The intercostal nerve, near its origin, sends one or i two filaments to the neighbouring dorsal ganglion of the synipa-1 thetic and midway between the vertebral column and sternmn, . while'situated between the intercostal muscles, gives off a lateral \