25 BONE. new bone, and these form the lacnnse and canalicnli. Vessels penetrate from the surface into the growing bone, and becoming enclosed in the calcareous deposit, determine the formation of the Haversian canals, and, in the tabular bones of the skull, of the cranial diflo'e. As the ossification commences in the centres of tlie tabular bones and spreads to the circumference, their angles are necessarily the last to ossify, so that at the time of birth, and for some months afterwards, spaces are left Ijetween the bones, filled by membrane only. Intracartilaginous Ossification.—Before the commencement of ossification, the cartilage cells are small in size, have a rounded form, and are evenly distributed throughout the matrix. The first indication of ai^proaching ossification is, that these cells become more numerous, increase in and become oval in form. Blood-vessels size. to be arranged Fio. 38.—Vertical sec- tion through carti- lage and incipient . ■, - , bono of the shaft of I'OWS placed the femur of an vertically to infant a fortnight ^.i t,,,,.f„pp „f old. o. Rows of car- ^^^^ SUliace 01 tilage cells. 6. Line of ossification, c. Close osseous net- work, first formed. li. Looser structure resulting Ironi re- absorption. also, which have hitherto been absent, are now observable in the softened and changing carti- lage ; these grow from the perichondrium in tufts, and are surrounded by a layer of im- perfectly formed connective tissue. Another noticeable feature may also be observed in a section of a bone in whicli ossification has com- menced, name- ly, that near the ossific cen- tre, the carti- lage cells come the new bone. Between these rows calcareous matter gets de- posited, form- ing trabecula), and as development advances, bands are tin-own across to join neighbouring trabeculoe; the rows of cartilage cells come thus to be enclosed in spaces (primary areoldi), the walls of which are formed by calcai'eous mattei'. Fio. 39.—Intrusion of periosteal osteo- blasts in inti'acixrtilaginous ossification. I. Fibrotis layer of periosteum. 2. Os- teoblastic layer. 3. Giant cells. 4. Peri- osteal cells penetrating into calcified cartilage. 5. The same cells com- pletely cut off from their periosteal connection. 6. Cells imbedded in new bone and determining the formation of lacunsB. At the .same time, a deposit of bony matter is taking ])lace be- neath the periosteum, through the agency of the osteoblastic cells de