ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. ill the main, cartificial. The most distinct muscle is the crico-thyroid, and next to this the crico-arytenoideus posticus ; the others are so united as to form a complete sphincter muscle, sphincter laryngis, which encloses the cavity of the glottis, and spreads out over the vocal cords and arytenoid cartilages, some of the fibres even reaching to the cornicula larviigis. Actions—The crico-arytenoidei postici open the glottis while all the rest close it. The arytenoideus approximates the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly, and the crico-arytenoidei laterales and thyro- aiytenoidei anteriorly ; the latter, moreover, close the glottis mesi- ally. The crico-thyroidei are tensors of the vocal cords, and these muscles, together with the thyro-arytenoidei, regulate the tension, position, and vibrating length of the vocal cords. The crico-thyroid muscles effect the tension of the vocal cords by rotating the inferior cornua of the thyroid on the cricoid; by this Fig. 396.—Side view of larynx, one ala of thyroid cut through and turned down. i. Great cornu of hyoid. 2. Lesser comu. 3. Cartilage triticea in thyro-hyoid ligament. 4. Body of hyoid. 5. Thyro-hyoid membrane. 6. Epiglottis. 7. Superior cornu of thyroid. 8. Front of thyro-hyoid membrane. 9. Coi-ni- culum laryngis. 10. Aryteuo-epiglottideus. II. Arytenoideus. 12. Thyroid. 13. Muscular angle of arytenoid. 14, Thyro-arytenoideus. 15. Crico-arytenoideus posticus. 16. Crico-ary- tenoideus lateralis. 17. Articulation between inferior cornu of tliyroid and cricoid (laid open). 18. Crico-thyroid (turned down). 19. Cricoid. 20. Lower part of right ala ot thyroid (turned down). 21. Tracliea. action the anterior portion of the thyroid is drawn downwards, and made to approximate the upper edge of the cricoid, thus separating it further from the arytenoid to which the vocal cords are fixed. The crico-arytenoidei postici separate the vocal cords by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages outwards and down- wards. The crico-arytenoidei laterales, by drawing the outer angles of the arytenoid cartilages forwards, approximate the anterior angles to which the vocal cords are attached. The thyro-arytenoidei draw the arytenoid cartilages forwards, and, by their connection with the vocal cords, make the whole length or any segment of the cords tense. The thyro-epiglottideus acts principally by compressing the glands of the sacculus lai^yngis and the sac itself : by its attachment to the epiglottis it would act feebly upon that valve. The aryteno-epi- glottideus superior serves to keep the mucous membrane of the sides of the opening of the glottis tense, when the larynx is drawn