OPHTHALMIC VEINS. 458 The spheno-parietal sinuses are two minute blood-channels which run under the border of the lesser wing of the sphenoid. They commence by small meningeal veins, and terminate in the commencement of the cavernous sinuses. OPHTHALMIC VEINS.—The veins of each orbit are two in number. superior and iyiferior. The superior ophthalmic vein, much the larger of the two, commences near the root of the nose by com- munications with the angular and supra-orbital branches of the facial vein ; it runs along the inner side of the orbit with the oph- thalmic artery, then crosses the optic nerve from within outwards, and passing through the sphenoidal fissure joins the cavernous sinus. Its tributaries are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, anterior and jjosterior ciliary, central vein of the retina, muscular, and lachrymal veins. The inferior ophthalmic vein is derived from the posterior ciliary and inferior muscular branches, it runs near the floor of the orbit, communicates through the spheno-maxillary fissure ^vith the pterygoid plexus, and terminates in the same way as the ujoper branch, which it often joins. VEINS OF THE NECK. The veins of the neck which return the blood from the head are— External jugular, Internal jugular, Anterior jugular. Vertebral. The external jugular vein, the continuation of the superficial division of the temporo-maxillary, augmented by the junction of the posterior auricular, and sometimes of the occii^ital, commences at the lower border of the parotid gland, in front of the sterno-mastoid muscle. It descends the neck in the direction of a line drawn from the angle of the lower jaw to the middle of the clavicle, crosses the sterno-mastoid, and terminates near the posterior and inferior attach- ment of that muscle, in the subclavian vein. It is provided with two pairs of valves, one situated near its entrance into the subclavian vein, and the other about the middle of the neck. In its course downwards, it lies on the anterior lamella of the deep cerWcal fascia, which separates it from the sterno-mastoid muscle, and is covered in by the platysma myoides and superficial fascia; at the root of the neck it pierces the deep cervical fascia. It is accom- panied, for the upper half of its course, l)y the auricularis magnus nerve. The branches which it receives are the occipital cutaneous and posterior cervical cutaneous, and, near its termination, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular. Frequently a branch of considerable size, called posterior external jugular, collects the blood from the occipital region and muscles of the back of the neck ; it runs between the splenius and trapezius, and joins the external jugular about the middle of its course.