THE SKIN. 64 bulbs and tlae sudoriferous glands are embedded. The superlicial strata contain much yellow elastic tissue, the quantity of which varies in different jjarts of tlie Ijody, being much increa.sed in tlie neighliourhood of joints. The deep strata contain unstriped muscular fibi-es, eitlier gathered into bundles or dispersed among the fibrous tissue. In some parts the muscular tissue is so thick as to form a distinct layer, as in the "tunica dartos" of the scrotum, in the nijjple and its areola, the j)enis and the perineum. There- are also distinct bands of muscle connected with the hair follicle.- ; these will be descriljed in speaking of the hairs. Tlii-oughout the whole of the reticular layer connective-tissue cor- puscles ai'e found ; thej^ generally anastomose so as to form a net- work. The papillary or superficial layer of the derma is raised in tlie form of conical prominences or papillcB. On the general surf arc of the body the papillae are short and exceedingly minute ; l)ut in other situations, as the palmar surface of the hands and fingeis, and the plantar surface of tlie feet and toes, they are long and of large size. They also ditt'er in arrangement; for, on the genei'al surface, they are distributed at unequal distances and without order ; whereas, on the palms and soles, and on the corresponding surfaces of the fingers and toes, they are collected into little squai-e chimps, containing from ten to twenty i^apillse, and these little clum2)s are disposed in parallel rows. It is this arrangement in rows that gives rise to the chai'acteiistic parallel ridges and furro^\■s which are met with on the hands and feet. The papillfe in these little square clumps are for the most part uniform in size and length, hwi every here and there one papilla may be obserA-ed Avhich is longer than the rest. The largest papillae of the derma are those which produce the nail. In structure the papilla is com- ]josed of homogeneous, nucleated, and fibrillated areolar tissue, with a few transverse elastic fibi'es. The papillae are separated from the ejiidermis by an apparently homogeneous basement membrane which becomes evident as a transparent line, when the tissue is treated with a solution of chloride of gold. The papillaj are divi- sible into vascular and nervous, the former pi'edominating; some of the nervous papillae are occupied by a peculiai' form of nerve ter- mination called the tactile corpuscle of Meissner or Wagner. The EPIDERMIS or cuticle (scari'skin) covei's the superficial surface of the derma, which it serves to envelop and defend. That surface of the epidermis which is exposed to the influence of the atmosphere and exterior sources of injury, is hard and horny in texture, and consists of many layers of horny cell-]ilates, which are not aftected by acetic acid, and in which no nucleus can l)e made out; they form the stratum corneum. Beneath these cells is a layer in which the outlines of the cells become indistinct, so that they appear to form a homogeneous/ stratum, wherein nuclei are seen at intei'vals ; this is called the stratum lucidum. In the succeeding layers the cells have a granular appearance, and contain a peculiar matter named eleidhi; they arc