PIGMENT. i6 Fig. 24. — Fenestrated membrane from the mid- dle coat of the carotid artery of a horse. Whartonian gelatine), and also forms the vitreous liumour of tin- eye. In the early embryonic coiidilion all connective tissue con- sists of a pellucid jelly, in which nucleated corpuscles are embedded, and yields a chemical principle called mucin; in the viti-eous humour the cells disappear, only the jelly I'emaining, but in the um1)ilicul cord the cor'puscles branch and become con- nected so as to foi'in trabeculse, Ijetweeu which the jelly lies. Reticular Tissue is found in all lym- ]>hatic glands, in the phaiynx and tonsils, the solitary and agminate glands of the intestine, the thymus gland, and in tin- spleen. It consists of vamiiied nucleated cells, the branches of Avhich are .so con- nected with each other as to form a net- work, the meshes being commonly filled Avith lymi?li corpuscles. From its presence in lymphatic glands it has been named " adenoid" and " lymphoid " tissue. Simple Membrane was formerly siipposed to be structureless, but is now known to be made up of liattened cells united edge to edge. It forms a the membrana profvia or supporting meml)rane of the ejiithelial cells in mucous membrane and in secreting glands, and is often sjjoken of as basement metnhrane. PIGMENT. Pigment of a black or dark brown colour is found in the dee])er layers of the cells of the epidermis {rete Fio. 25.—Reticular tissue from the mucosiim), especially in certain i\ ^Tnviiiifnvni annendix of a rabbit. _ „ .,,.,.,^4 vernuform appendix of a rabbit „[^^^f. ^S the perineum, SCrotum, T Deeper portion m horizontal s^"-"" ' : f ,1 ^' • i - . . , . ,^,,(1 penis, also in the choroid coal of the eye, the olfactory mucous membrane, the ])ia mater of the spinal cord, and the lungs. It con- section : a. framework ; b. lymph canals. 2. Superficial portion : a. and b. as in i ; c. follicular gland lined with column.ar epithelium. sists of minute gi-anules, composed chietly of carbon, embedded in the pr(itoplasm of epithelial or other cells, so as often completely to obscure the colourless and transparent nucleus ; the gramiles often exhibit movements in the substance of the containing cell. The cells are sometimes hexiigonal in form and arranged side by side as in the pigmentary layer of the retina of the eye, some-