LYMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. 486 abdominal viscera, and their eiferent vessels terminate in the re- ceptaculum chyli. The deep lymphatic glands of the pelvis are the external iliac, internal iliac, and sacral. The external iliac are placed ai'ound the external iliac vessels, being in continnation, by one extremity, with the femoral lymphatics; by the other, with the lumbar glands. The internal iliac glands are situated in the course of the inter- nal iliac vessels, and the sacral glands rest on the concave surface of tlie sacrum. Both sets of glands have efferent vessels which empty into the lumbal' chain of glands. Vessels.—The deep lymphatic vessels are continued upwards from the thigh beneath Poupart's ligament, and along the external iliac vessels to the lumbar glands, receiving in their cour.se the epi- gastric, circumflex iliac, and ilio-lumbar lymphatic vessels. Those from the parietes of the pelvis, and from the gluteal, ischiatic, and obturator vessels, follow the course of the internal iliac veins, and unite with the lumbar lymphatics. The lumbar lymphatic vessels, after receiving all the lymphatics from the lower extremities, pelvis, and loins, terminate by several large trunks in the receitta- culum chyli. LYMPHATICS OF THE VISCERA. LUNGS.—The lymphatic vessels of the lungs, of large size, are distributed over every part of the surface, and through the texture of those organs. They are divisible into a superficial set which lies immediately beneath the pleura, and a deep set which accompanies the ramifications of the bronchial tubes, and jjulmonary arteries ; they converge to the bronchial glands, ten or twelve in num- ber, situated around the bifurcation of the trachea and roots of the lungs. Some of these glands, of small size, may be traced in connec- tion with the bronchial tubes into the substance of the lungs. The efferent vessels from the bronchial glands unite with those from the tracheal and esophageal glands, and terminate on the left side in the thoracic duct at the root of the neck, and on the right in the ductus lymphaticus dexter. The bronchial glands in the adult jDresent a variable tint of broAvn, and in old age a deep black colour. In infancy they have none of this pigment, and are not to be dis- tinguished from lymj)hatic glands in other situations. HEART.—The lymphatic vessels of the heart originate in the subserous areolar tissue of the surface, and in the deeper tissues of that organ, and follow the course of the coronary vessels, princi]3ally, along the right border of the heart to the glands situated around the arch of the aorta, and to the bronchial glands, whence they proceed to the root of the neck, and terininate in the thoracic duct. The cardiac glands are three or four in number. The pericardiac and thymic lymphatic vessels proceed to join the anterior mediastinal and bronchial glands.