GALL-BLADDER. 750 portal vein tlirougli the portal canals and into the interlobular fissures ; they originate in the spaces described above as separating the capillaries from the biliary cells. There are also superficial lymphatic plexuses beneath the peritoneum, those on the upper convex surface communicating with the lymphatics of the dia- hragm and thorax. The nerves form the hepatic plexus, and are erived from the solar plexus and the left pneumogastric and right l^hrenic nerves. The branches entering the liver are very small ; they run with the arteries and ducts in the portal canals, those on the former having minute ganglia in their course. Some of the branches form an interlobular plexus, which gives twigs to the surface of the hepatic cells. Foetal Liver.—^The liver is one of the first formed abdominal organs in. the embryo, consisting primarily of two small masses of hypo-blastic origin, which grow out from the duodenum just beyond the stomach, and jDcnetrate the meso-blastic mass between those organs and the abdominal wall. The cells rapidly increase in number, those of hypo-blastic origin forming solid cylinders which ramify and anastomose with each other, and finally constitute the secretory portion of the gland ; the meso-blastic cells included within the network of the former constituting the areolar and vascular structure of the organ. Subsequently the solid cylinders are hollowed in their interior and form the biliary ducts. At the sixth week the liver fills the whole abdomen, and is one-half the weight of the entire embryo. At the fourth month the liver is of immense size in proportion to the bulk of the foetus. At birth it is of very large size, and occupies the whole upper part of the abdomen. The left lobe is as large as the right, and the falciform ligament corresponds with the middle line of the body. The liver diminishes rapidly after birth, probably from obliteration of the umbilical veiru GALL-BLADDER. | The gall-bladder (Fig. 457) is the reservoir of the bile ; it is a pyriform sac, situated in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and extending from the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the free margin. It is divided into a body, fundus, and neck ; the fundus or bi'oad extremity in the natural position of the liver is placed downiwards, and frequently projects beyond the free margin of the liver, while the neck, small and con- stricted, is directed upwards. The fundus comes in contact with the abdominal wall opposite the ninth costal cartilage of the right side. The gall-bladder is composed of three coats, serous, fibrous, and mucous. The serous coat is partial, is derived from the peritoneum, and covers that side only which is unattached to the liver. The middle or fibrous coat is a thin but strong fibrous layer, composed of dense areolar tissue, and connected on the one side with the liver, on the other with the peritoneum. There also exists in this layer a stratum of unstriped muscular fibres, which are longitudinal and