668 HEART. wall of the ventricle, the other at the junction of the septum ven- triculorum with the posterior wall. The semilunar valves are placed around the conmiencement of the aorta, like those of tlie pulmonary artery ; they are similar in structure, and are attached to the scalloped border by which the aorta is connected with the ventricle. The nodule in the centre of each fold is larger than those of the pulmonary valves, and it was these that Aranzi particularly described ; but the term corpora Arantii is now applied indiscriminately to both. The fossse be- tween the semilunar valves and the cylinder of the artery are larger than those of the pulmonary artery, and are called the sinus aortici (sinuses of Valsalva). The part of the ventricle which leads upwards to the aorta is sometimes described as the aortic vestibule or conus arteriosus; its surface is smooth from the absence of columnae carneae, and from its walls containing a large amount of fibrous tissue it does not collapse when the heart empties. The interventricular septum is of about the same thickness as the wall of the left ventricle; it is thickest below and gradually thins as it ascends. At its iipper and anterior part there is a small area where the muscular fibres are entirely absent, and the septal wall consists only of fibrous tissue between two layers of endocardium ; this is called the undefended space or membranous2)art of th e septum. It is situated between the aortic and left ai;riculo-ventricular openings. Position of the Heart in Relation to the Chest Wall. Two-thirds of the heart lie to the left of the middle line, only the right auricle lying to the right of it; its extreme limit to the right is about one inch from the border of the sternum, and to the left two and a half inches from the edge of that bone. The upper margin of the auricles corresponds to a line drawn from the second right to the first left intercostal space. The right auricle lies behind the lower part of the sternum, its outer edge being situate at about an inch to the outer side of the right border of the bone. The left auricle lies on the left of the sternum, in a line running from the second left inter- costal space to the upper border of the fourth left cartilage. The right ventricle extends from the third to the sixth cartilage of the left side near the sternum, the part nearest the surface being the conus arteriosus. The left border, formed by the left ventricle, may be defined by a line curved to the left, and extending from the edge of the sternum in the third left intercostal space, to the fifth space at about three and a half inches from the middle line The apex of the heart, also formed by the left ventricle, is situated behind the fifth intercostal space, about two inches below the nipple, and half an inch to its inner side. The right auricido-ventricular opening (tricuspid valve) corresponds to the iniddle of the sternum, on a line Avith the fourth costal cartilages. Tlie left auriculo-ventricular Oldening (mitral valve) lies behind the third intercostal sj^ace of the