342 ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE HAND. heads from adjoining sides of tlie Imses of the metacarpal Ijones. They are inserted into the base of the first phalanges, and into the aponeurosis of the extensor tendons. The first is inserted into the index finger, and from its use is called abductor indicis; the second and third are inserted into the middle finger, compensating its exclusion from the palmar group ; the fourth is attached to the ring finger ; so that each finger is pro- vided with two interossei, with the exception of the little finger, as may be shown by means of a table, thus :— Index finger, | '^V^^ (abductor indicis), ' (one palmar. Middle finger, two dorsal. Rhig finger, j "^^e dorsal, ^ ^ ' ( one palmar. Little finger, remaining palmar (adductor minimi digiti). Relations.—By their dorsal surface with a thin aponeurosis, which separates them from the tendons on the dorsum of the hand. By their palmar surface with the muscles and tendons in the palm of the hand. By one side with the metacarpal l^one; by the other with the corresponding palmar interosseous. The abductor indici.'; is in relation by its palmar surface with the adductor pollicis and flexor brevis pollicis. The radial artery passes into the palm of the liand between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle (abductor indicis) ; and the perforating branches of the deep ijalmar arch, between the heads of the other dorsal interossei. Nerve-supply.—All the inteimseous muscles are sui)plied by the ulnar nerve. Actions.—The actions of the muscles of the hand are exj^ressed in their names. Those of the radial region belong to the thumb, and provide for three of its. movements, abduction, adduction, and flexion. The ulnai' grou^i, in like manner, are subservient to the same motions of the little finger. The lumbi'icales are accessory in their actions to the deep flexoi's ; they were called by the earlier anatomists fidicinii—i.e., fiddlers' muscles, from an idea that they might eft'ect the rapid movements hj which the performer is enabled to produce the various notes on that instrument. The seven in- terossei and the four lumbricales have a double action on the fingers in consequence of being inserted partly into the bases of the first phalanges and partly into the expansion of the extensor tendon. They thus become flexors of the fingers at the metacarpo-phalangeal joint, and extensors of the two last phalanges ; the foi-mer action being due to their osseous, and the latter to their tendinous insertion. The interossei are, however, chiefly concerned in flexion of the first phalanx, since the greater part of their insertion is into that bone ; the lumbricales, again, almost entirely jmss to the extensor tendon, and they thus combine the action of the flexors with that of the ex- tensors, so as to give fineness and firmness of digital action (Clark).