647 MEMBRANOUS VESTIBULE of connective tisstie containing some scattered pigment cells ; it is con- nected with the periosteum by well-marked fibrous bands along which blood-vessels run. The tunica propna is transparent and apparently structureless, and is thinnest where the membranous tube is m con- tact with the osseous wall; it presents towards the cavity of the tube a number of papillary projections covered by the cells of the inner coat. The epithelial layer is formed throughout of a single layer of flattened cells. . p , a ^ The membranous vestibule consists of two sacs, a greater and a lesser. The greater sac, called the utricle (sacculus communis , rests in the depression called fovea hemi-elliptica in the upper and back part of the vestibule ; it is oblong and slightly flattened from within outAvards. Its inner wall is thickened, where it receives numerous Fig. 377.—Labyrinth of tlie left ear showing its cavities and the membranous labyrinth: I. Cavity of the vestibule; the figure rests on the utricle. 2. Ampulla of the perpen- dicular semicivcular canal, receiving a fas- ciculus from the superior branch of the vestibular nerve (3). 4. Perpendicular canal with its contained membranous canal. 5. Ampulla of the horizontal semicircular canal, receiving a fasciculus from the supe- rior branch of the vestibular nerve. 6. Ter- mination of the membranous canal of the horizontal semicircular canal, in the utricle. 7. Ampulla of the oblique semicircular canal, receiving a fasciculus from the infe- rior branch of the vestibular nerve. 8. Ob- • lique semicircular canal. 9. The common canal, resulting from the union of the per- pendicular with the oblique semicircular • canal. 10. Membranous common canal • terminating in the utricle, ii. The otolith • ■ of the utricle seen through the membranous parietes. A fasciculus from the inferior branch of the vestibular nerve distributed to the utricle near the otolith. 12. Saccule ; its otolith is seen through its membranous parietes, and a fasciculus derived from the middle branch of the vestibular nerve is distributed to it. 13. First turn of the cochlea; the figure points to the scala tympani. 14. Extremity of the scala • tympani, the fenestra robmda. 15. Lamina spiralis : the figure is situated in the scala vestibuli. 16. Opening of the scala vestibuli into the vestibule. 17. Second turn of the cochlea ; the figure is placed on the lamina spiralis, and therefore in ^ the scala vestibuli, the scala tympani being beneath the lamina. 18. Remaining half-turn of the cochlea; tlie figure is placed in the scala tympani. 19. Lamina spiralis terminating in its falciform extremity. The dark space included within the falciform curve of the extremity of the lamina spiralis is the helicotrema. 20. Inftmdibulum. branches of the vestibular nerve (macula acustica). Firmly attached to the wall of the utricle, is a small aggregation of crystals of carbonate of lime ; these are irregular in shape, and are called otoliths (ear-stones), or otoconia (ear-dust). The cavity of the utricle is continuous with that of the membranous semicircular canals, but is distinct from that of the saccule. The lesser sac, called the saccule (sacculus proprius), is spherical in shape, and is situated in the lower and anterior part of the vestibule, lying in the depression of the fovea hemispherica. It