NERVE FIBRES. ;u'e al.so of two kinds, nerve fibres and nerve cells. The ftlires form the channels of com- munication Ijetween the centres and the organs, and when gathered together into hundles form nerves ; the cells are restricted in their distribution to the nerA'e centres, ganglia, and certain of the organs of sense. . NERVE FIBRES are of two kinds—white or medullatecl, and grey or non-medullated. The white or medullated nerve fibres form the white matter of the brain, spinal cord, and nerves. When examined imme- diately after removal from the body they seem to be structureless, and are lionnded Ijy a wavy outline. In a short time, howe'S'er, their ajipearance changes, and they come to present a doul)le boundary line ; the fibre now consists of three parts, an outer delicate, transparent covering, a central thread, firm and solid in consistence, and between these a substance which has a wavy or irregular margin, and often a nodulated aspect. The outer layer is called the iij-imi^tve sheath or neurolemma; it is so fine and transparent as to be difficiilt of demonstration, and, indeed, it is only when a break takes place in the substance of the fibre that it becomes visible ; it is elastic and apparently structureless. The j)rimitive sheath disappears when nerves enter the substance of the brain or spinal cord, and is also al:)sent from many ner-s'es in their peripheral distribution. Beneath the primitive sheath at wide intervals are small nucleated masses of proto- plasm ; they are the nerve corpuscles; they correspond to the nuclei found beneath the sarcolemma of muscle, but are much less numerous. The pulpy substance which lies between the primitive sheath and the central thread is called the medullary sheath {lohite matter of Schwann). It is viscous, clear, transparent, and easily susceptible of coagulation, and is convertecl in its coagulated state into an opaque, granular, white substance. It is found to consist to a large extent of fatty matter, and, after nerves have been some time removed from the body, becomes ir- regular in outline, its margins l)ecome -r Fill. 47.—Medullated nerve fibre, a. Axis cylinder •<!. Medullary sheath. ?! Nucleus. 2). Granular pro toplasm ai-ound nucleiis r. Node of Ranvier. i, i Dissepiments in medul lary sheath. ■ G