PULMONARY VEINS. 473 the name of coronary veins. Of these the one placed most ante- riorly is the smallest: it runs from the cardiac towards the pyloric end of the curve, receives branches from the pylorus and upper part of the duodenum, and ends in the portal vein. The posterior branch, mucli the largest, runs from the pyloric towards the cardiac end, and at about an inch and a half from the oesophagus winds to the posterior surface of the stomach, crosses the splenic artery, and terminates in the portal vein above the preceding. The PORTAL VEIN (venaporta), formed l)y the union of the splenic and superior mesenteric veins iDehind the pancreas, ascends through the right border of the lesser omentum to the transverse fissure of the liver, where it divides into two branches, one for each lateral lobe. In the right border of the lesser omentum it is situated behind and between the hepatic artery and ductus communis choledochus, and is surrounded by the hepatic plexus of nerves and lymphatics. At the transverse fissure each primary branch divides into numerous secondary branches which ramify through the portal canals, and give off vaginal and interlobular veins, and the latter terminate in the lobiilar venous plexus of the lobules of the liver. The portal vein within the liver receives the venous blood from the capillaries of the hepatic artery. Communications with the Systemic Veins.—The veins form- ing the portal system communicate with the systemic veins— (i) By the inosculation of the inferior htemorrhoidal tributaries of the inferior mesenteric with those of the internal iliac ; (2) by com- munications between the left renal vein and the veins of the intes- tines, especially those of the colon and duodenum ; and (3) by the inosculation of superficial branches of the portal veins of the liver with the phrenic veins. PULMONARY VEINS. The pulmonary veins, four in number, return the arterial blood from the lungs to the left auricle of the heart; they differ from veins in general, in the area of their cylinders being less than that of the coi-responding arteries, in carrying arterial blood, in being devoid of valves, and in accompanying singly each branch of the pulmonary artery. They commence in the capillaries upon the parietes of the alveolar passages and air-cells, and unite to form a single trunk for each lobe. The vein of the middle lobe of the right lung unites with the superior vein, so as to form the two trunks which open into the left auricle. Sometimes they remain separate, and then there are three pulmonary veins on the right side. The right pul- monary veins pass behind the right auricle to the left auricle ; the left pass in front of the descending aorta ; they both pierce the pericardium. Within the lung the branches of the pulmonary veins are l)ehind the bronchial tubes, and those of the pulmonary' artery in front; but at the root of the lungs the veins are in front, next the arteries, and then the bronchi.