MECHANISM OF DEGLUTITION. 26s with tliose of the muscle of tlie opposite side ; and is inserted with the stylo-pharyngens into the inner surface of the pharynx and posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. This muscle is broad above where it forms the whole thickness of the lower half of the soft palate, narrow in the posterior pillar, and again broad and thm in the pharynx where it spreads out preyiously to its insertion. The levator palati passes to its insertion lietween the two fasciculi of origin of this muscle. Relations.—In the soft palate it is in relation with the mucous membrane both by its anterior and posterior surface ; above, with the levator palati, and heloiv, with the mucous glands situated along the margin of the arch of the palate. In the posterior ]nllar, it is sur- rou]ided for tAvo-thirds of its extent by mucous membrane. In the pharynx, it is in relation by its outer surface with the superior and middle constrictor muscle, by its inner surface vnth the mucous membrane. Nerve-supply.—The palato-glossus is supplied by the facial nerve, and the palato-pharyngeus from Meckel's ganglion and the pharyngeal plexus. Actions.—The azygos uvulae shortens the uvula. In speaking and singing, the uvula is by its muscles placed in contact with the posterior wall of the j^harynx, and in that position serves to steady the palate and prevent the vibration of its edge. The levator palati raises the soft palate, while the tensor spreads it out laterally 80 as to form a septum between the pharynx and posterior nares. Tlie palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus constrict the opening of the fauces, and drawing down the soft palate, serve to press the mass of food from the dorsum of the tongue into the pharynx. The action of the i^haryngeal muscles on the Eustachian tube has been much debated ; the generally received view is, that while the lower opening is always in some measure patent, it is distinctly enlai'ged by these muscles in the act of swallowing. Mechanism of Deglutition.—Deglutition is performed by means of the tongue and the muscles of the soft palate, fauces, and pharynx. The food bolus is pushed towards the fauces by the application of the tongue to the hard palate, the base of the tongue being also carried upwards and backwards by the action of the stylo-glossus muscles ; in this way the bolus is caused to pass between the anterior pillars of the fauces, the muscles of which (the palato-glossi) contract upon it._ Tlie palato-pharyngeus muscles forming the posterior pillars of the fauces also contract and narrow the faucial opening, the interval between them being filled up by the uvula ; the tensor palati muscles make tense, and the levator palati draAv upwards and backwards the soft palate till it nearly touches the posterior wall of the pharynx, thus ])reventing the food from passing upwards to the nasal cavity. At the same time the larynx is drawn upwards beneath the lower jaw by the elevator muscles of the os hyoides, and the thyroid cartilage is carried beneath the hj^oid bone 'by the thyro-hyoid muscles so as to allow the epiglottis to fall over the