KNEE-JOINT. 215 ments on eacli side ; the fibres are attached above to the margin of the articular surface of the femur, and to the upper edge and lateral margins of the patella, while they are inserted below into the inner and outer tuberosities of the tibia. They are intimately connected with the lateral expansions of the tendons of the vastus externus, vastus internus, and crureus, and receive additional fibres from the tendons of the biceps, semi- tendinosus, and sartorius. The true ligaments within the joint are the crucial, transverse, and coronary. The anterior or external crucial ligament arises from the depression on the head of the tibia in front of the spinous process, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the inner surface of the outer condyle of the femur, as far back as its posterior border. It is smaller than the posterior. The posterior or internal crucial ligament arises from the de^Dression on the head of the tibia behind the spinous process, and passes upwards and forwards to be inserted into the intercondylar hollow, and outer surface of the inner condyle of the femur. This li<^ament is less oblique and larger than the anterior. The anterior crucial ligament limits extension, and the posterior limits flexion ; they also limit rotation when the leg is flexed. The transverse ligament is a small slip of fibres which extends transversely from the external semilunar fibro-carti- lage, near its anterior extremity, to the anterior convexity of the internal cartilage. The coronary ligaments are the short fibres by which the convex borders of the semilunar cartilages are connected to the head of the tibia and ligaments surrounding the joint. The semilunar fibre-cartilages are two falciform plates of fibro- FiG. 174.—Posterior view of the ligaments of the knee-joint, i, i. Internal lateral liga- ment. 2. Longexternallateralligament. 3. Tendon of semi-membranosns. 4. 4. Popliteus. 5, 5. Prolongations of tendon of semi-membranosus. 6. Outer head of gastrocnemius. 7. Inner head of gastroc- nemius. 8, 15. Posterior ligament (of Winslow). 9. Opening in capsule. 10. Posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament. II. Tendon of adductor magnus. 12. Tendon of biceps. 13. Prolongation from tendon of semi-membranosus to posterior ligament.