I LYMPHATICS OF THE TRUNK. 479 LYMPHATICS OF THE TRUNK. The lymphatics of the trunk may be arranged under three heads, superficial, deep, and visceral. The superficial lymphatic vessels of the upper half of the trunk pass upwards and outwards at each side, and converge, some to the axillary glands, others to the glands at the root of the neck. The lymphatics from the mammary glands follow the lower border of the pectoralis major, communicating, by means of a chain of lymphatic glands, with the axillary glands. The superficial lym- phatic vessels of the lower half of the trunk, gluteal region, peri- neum, and external organs of generation, converge to the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. One or two small glands are situated at each side of the dorsal vein of the penis, near the suspen- sory ligament; from these, as from the superficial lymphatics, the efferent vessels pass into the superior group of superficial inguinal glands. Glands.—The deep lymphatic glands of the thorax are the intercostal, anterior mediastinal, and cesophageal. The intercostal glands, of small size, are situated on each side of the vertebral column, near the articulations of the lieads of the ribs, and in the course of the intercostal arteries. The anterior mediastinal glands are situated along the course of the internal mammary arteries ; they are six or seven in number at each side, and receive the lymphatic vessels from the anterior wall of the chest, the mediastinum, thymus gland, and pericardium. The oesophageal or posterior mediastinal glands, fifteen or twenty in number, are situated in the course of the cusojohagus, and receive the lymphatics of that tube ; they communicate above with the deep cervical glands, on each side with the intercostal, and belo^w Avith the abdominal glands. Vessels.—The deep lymphatic vessels of the thorax are the intercostal, internal mammary, and diaphragmatic. The intercostal lymphatic vessels follow the course of the veins of the same name ; and reaching the vertebral column, curve down- wards, to terminate in the thoracic duct. The internal mammary lymphatics commence in the parietes of the abdomen communicating with the epigastric lymphatics. Tliey ascend by the side of the internal mammary vessels, being joined in their course by the anterior intercostals, and terminate at the root of the neck, on the right side in the tributaries of the ductus lympliaticus dexter; on the left, in the thoracic duct. The dia- 2)hmgmcdic lympliatics pursue the direction of their corresponding veins, and terminate, some in front, in the internal mammary vessels, and some behind in the postei'ior mediastinal lymithatics. Glands.—Tlie deep lymphatic glands of the abdomen are the lumbar glands : they are numerous, and seated around the common iliac vessels, the aorta, and vena cava. They receiA'e the lymphatic vessels from the lower extremities, pelvis, testicles and some of the