77P VESICUL^ SEMINALES. in front and behind the urethra, and radiate into the lateral loljes. The urethra, in passing through the prostate, lies one-third nearer its upper, than its lower, surface. The arteries of the prostate are small, and derived from the in- ferior vesical and middle hsemorrhoidal; they distribute numerous capillaries to the glandular structure of the organ. The veins form a rich plexus in the submucous tissue of the urethra, and anotlier of larger vessels on the exterior of the gland ; the latter receives from the front the veins of the penis, and terminates in the vesical plexus. Lymphatics are distributed with the veins betM'een the two layers of the capsule. VESICUL^ SEMINALES. On the under surface of the base of the bladder, and converging towards the base of the prostate gland, are two lobulated and some- what pyriform bodies, about two inches in length, the vesiculae •.seminales. Their upper surface is in contact with the base of the bladder ; the under side rests on the rectum, sejDarated only by the I'ecto-vesical fascia ; the larger extremities are directed backwards and outwards, and the smaller ends almost meet at the base of the prostate. They enclose between them a triangular space, which is „ , . , ■. ■ . . bounded posteriori , Fio. 474.—Posterior aspect - - ^ . •'. of the male bladder ; the serous covering is re- moved in order to show the muscular coat. i. Body of the bladder. 2. Superior fundus. 3. In- ferior fundus or base. 4. Urachus. 5, 5. Ure- ters. 6, 5. Vasa defei-- ■ entia. 7, 7. Vesiculae seminales. The trian- gular area, bounded by the vasa defeventia and vesiculae seminales at either side, a dotted line above, and the figure 3 below, is the space cor- responding with the tri- gonum vesicae. The dotted line, forming the base of this triangular area, marks the limit of the rccto-vesical fold of peritoneum. by the recto-vesical fold of peritoneum, and corresponds with the trigonum vesiccE on the inte- rior of the bladder. Each vesicula is formed by the con- volutions of a single tube, wdiich gives off several irregulai' csecal sacculi and )ranches. It is en- closed in a thin fibrous memljrane, and is constricted beneath the isthmus of theprostategland, where it terminates in the ejaculatory duct. The vas deferens, somewhat enlarged and sacctilated, lies along the inner border of each vesicula, and is included in its fibrous investment; it unites with the vesicvda beneath the istlunus of the prostate, in the forma- tion of the ejaculatory duct. The ejaculatory duct is about three-quarters of an inch n\ length, and running forwards, first between the base of the prostate and the isthmus, and then through the tissue of the veru moutanum,