370 FIBULAR REGION. loiigus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor loiigiis lialliicis. At the inner malleolus, the relation of the tendons is, tiljialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, both in the same sheath ; then a broad groove, which lodges the posterior tibial artery, venaj coniites, and nerve ; and lastly, the Hexor longus hallucis. Actions.—The popliteus is a flexor of the tibia upon the thigh, carrying it at the same time inwards so as to invert the leg, the joint being so arranged that rotation is only possible when the leg is flexed. It is especially brought into play at the commencement of flexion of the knee, producing the inward rotation of the tiljia (oi- outward rotation of the femur), which is essential to that action. The flexor longus hallucis and flexor longus digitorum are the long flexors of the toes ; their tendons are connected in the foot by a short tendinous band, hence they necessarily act together. The tibialis posticus is an extensor of the tarsus upon the leg, and in this respect is an antagonist to the tibialis anticus. It combines with the til)ialis anticus in adduction of the foot. Fibular Region. Peroneus longus, Peroneus brevis. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by continuing the dissec- tion of the anterior tibial region outwards beyond the fibula to the border of the posterior tibial region. The PERONEUS LONGUS {-rrepovrj, fibula) arises from the head and upper two-thirds of the outer side of the fibula, from the deep fascia and intermuscular septa, and terminates in a long tendon which passes behind the external malleolus, aud obliquely across the sole of the foot, through the groove in the cuboid bone (converted into a canal by a fibrous band), to be inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe and under surface of the internal cuneiform bone. Its tendon is thickened where it glides behind the external malleolus, and a sesamoid bone is de- velojied in that part which jslays against the cuboid bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, peroneus breAds, os calcis, cuboid bone, and, near the head of the fibula, the external popliteal nerve. By its anterior border it is separated from the extensor longus digitorum by the attachment of the fascia of the leg to the fibula ; and, by the posterior border, by the same medium from the soleus and flexor longus hallucis. The tendon of the peroneus longus is furnished with three fibrous sheaths and as many synovial memlji'anes ; the first is situated behind the external malleolus, and is common to this muscle and the peroneus brevis, the second at the outer side of the os calcis, the third on the cuboid bone. Nerve-supply.—Mitsculo-cutaneous nerve, a branch of the pero- neal nerve. The PERONEUS BREVIS lies beneath the peroneus longus : it