721 PHAEYNX. strono' and thick above, but thins as it passes downwards, and at the lowe^part of the pliarynx is distinguishable only as a layer of diffuse areolar tissue. The mucous membrane varies greatly in its char- acter in different parts of the pha- rynx ; it is tliick where it clothes the base of the skull, hwt thinner in the neighbour- hood of the Eus- tachian tube, and near the j^osterior nares; in the latter situations nume- rous racemose glands are seated in the submucous Fig. 431.—Pharynx laid open from behind. 1. Section carried trans- versely through the base of the skull. 2, 2. Walls of the pharynx drawn aside. 3, 3. Posterior nares, sei^arated by the vomer. 4. Extremity of one Eustachian tube. 5. Soft palate. 6. Pos- terior pillar of the soft palate. 7. Anterior pil- lar ; the tonsil is seen in the niche between the two pillars. 8. Root of the tongue, partly con- cealed by the uvula. 9. Epiglottis, overhanging (10) the cordiform opening of the larynx. II. Posterior part of the larynx. 12. Opening of the oesophagus. 13. ffisophagus. 14. Tra- chea. tissue, and jDour their secretion on to the surface of the iuenil)rane. Lymphoid tissue is everywhere abundant, and at the back part of the pharynx, forms a glandular mass stretching across between the openings of the two Eustachian tubes, which receives the name of the ijharyngeal tonsil. In the middle line, near the base of the skull, there is in the young child a small recess in the mucous niemlirane, called the hursa plumjugea; it sometimes remains permanent throughout adult life. At its anterior part the i^harynx has opening into it seven fora- mina, viz :— Posterior nares, two. Eustachian tubes, two, Mouth, Larynx. CEsoiDhagus. ' The posterior nares are the two large openings at the upper and front part of the pharynx. On each side of these openings, and parallel with the posterior termination of the inferior tui'binated bone, is the depression in the mucous membrane, marking the aperture of the Eustachian tube. It is bounded above and inter- nally by a prominent ridge, formed by the margin of the cartilage, covered by thick mucous membrane. Between the opening of the Eustachian tube and the liack of the pharynx is a somewhat tri- angular depression, which has been named the fossa of Rosenmilller. Beneath tlie posterior nares is the isthmus faucium, tlie large opening into the mouth, partly veiled by tlie soft palate ; and beneath the root of the tongue, the cordiform opening of the larynx. 'Jlie oesophageal opening is the lower constricted portion of the pharynx. 2 z