66 THE ttKlN. 4® formed become larger hy drawing nourislimeiit fiom llie coriiim, and it is probable tliat they also divide to t'orin other cells. As this pro- cess goes on, the newest-formed cells pnsh the older ones away irom the corinm, and as the latter ascend towards the surface of tlie skin they nndergo certain changes. In consecpience of the pi-essui-e which they sustain they become flattened ; as they get beyond the ivange of nutrition they become altered in consistence, and finally they become subject to evaporation. Thus it happens that the ceil which is at first spherical becomes elliptical, then becomes still more flattened, and at length desiccates into a thin membi'anous scale, in which no nucleus is apparent; in this last form it is thrown off'. The superficial cells of the rete mucosum are marked on their surface by irregular ridges and furrows, and sometimes by small spines ; the ridges do not fit into the furrows, but the result of their presence is that minute channels are left between the cells which probably serve for tlie passage of nutrient fluid. Wa;nder-cells are often observed among the cells of the rete miicosum. The under surface of the epidermis is accurately modelled on the papillary layer of the derma, each papilla having its appropriate sheath in the newly- formed rete mucosum, and each ir- regularity of surface of the former ha\dng its re^jresentative in the soft tissue of the latter. On the external surface, this character is lost; the minute elevations corresponding with the pa- pillcE are, as it were, polished down, and the surface is' rendered smooth and uniform. The palmar and plantar sur- face of the hands and feet are, however, an exception to this rule ; for here, in consequence of the large size of the papillae and their peculiar arrangement in rows, ridges correspond- ing with the papillse are strongly marked on the sujjerficial surface of the epidermis. The epidermis is remarkaljle for its thickness in situations where the papillae are large, as in the palms and soles. In other situations, it assumes a character Avliich is also due to the nature of the surface of the derma ; namely, that of being marked Ijy a network of linear furrows wliich trace out the surface into small polygonal and diamond-shaped areas. These lines cori-espond with the folds of the derma produced by its movements, and are most numerous where those movements are greatest, as in the flexures and on the convexities of joints. The dark colour of the skin among the natives of the South is due to the presence of pigment granules in the deep cells of the rete Fig. 77.—Diagram illustrative of the development ot the epider- mis and of epithelia in general. 1. A new cell. 2. The cell seen to be increased in size. 3. The spheroidal cell. 4. The ov.alcell. 5. The elliptical cell. 6. The flattened cell; which, by con- tact of its vsralls, is speedily con- verted into a scale. 7. A nu- cleated scale as seen on its flat surface. 8. A cluster of such scales.