579 ABDOMINAL INTERCOSTAL NERVES. cutaneous branch wlaiclx pierces the external intercostal muscle and divides into an anterior and posterior twig for the supply of the integument of the side of the thorax. Abdominal Intercostals.—This description applies in full only to the six upper intercostal nerves; the six lower, with the excep- tion of tlie last, cross the cartilages of the ribs where the thorax is deficient and take their course between the internal oblique and trans versalis muscles to the sheath of the rectus, and, after supply- ing tliat muscle, to the linea alba, by the side of which they reach the integument constituting the anterior cutaneous nerves of the "abdomen. The first and the last intercostal nerves are exceptions to this general scheme of distribution. The first ascends over the first rib to join the brachial plexus, and gives off only a small branch, to take the usual course of the other intercostal nerves. The last or twelfth nerve lies below the last rib, and after crossing the quaclratus lumborum takes its coxirse between the internal oblique and trans- versalis muscle like the other inferior intercostals. Near its origin it sends a branch, the dorsi-lumbar, downwards to join the first lumbar nerve. The branches of the intercostal nerves are—muscular, lateral cutaneous, and anterior cutaneous. The muscular branches are small twigs distributed to the inter- costal and neighbouring muscles. The lateral cutaneous nerves, given off from the intercostals at about the middle of the lateral half of the thorax, pierce the ex- ternal intercostal muscle and pass between the fibres of the serratus magnus above and the obliquus externus below to reach the surface. The lateral cutaneous nerve then divides into an anterior and pos- terior branch. The anterior branches are directed forwards to sup- ply the integument of the antero-lateral aspect of the trunk, some of the superior branches turning around the inferior border of the pectoralis major to the mammary gland. The posterior branches take their coui-se backwards to supply the integument of the postero- lateral aspect of the trunk, some of the superior turning around the posterior border of the axilla to reach the integument over the lower part of the scapula and latissimus dorsi; and that from the third intercostal being distributed to the integument of the axilla and neighbouring jiart of the arm. The first intercostal gives oft" no lateral cutaneous nerve ; the lateral cutaneous Ijranch of the second intercostal nerve will be presently described, under the name of intercosto-humeral nerve. The lateral cutaneous branch of the last intercostal nerve pierces the internal and external oblique muscle, crosses the crest of the ilium just behind the tensor vaginse femoris, and is distributed to the integument of the anterior part of the gluteal region as low down as the trochanter major. The anterior cutaneous nerves are divided according to their osition into those of the thorax and those of the abdomen. Having