32 NERVE TISSUE. classed with the fornier. The striao are more faintly marked than those of oi-dinary stri])ed muscle, and tlie iibres are smaller, and have no sai'colemma ; they are reniarkaljle for their mimei-ous brandies and fre(juent anastomoses, and are formed ])y the union of distinct cells joined end to end. Each cell has a single nucleus near its centre and one or' two nucleoli ; they frequently contain small fatty granules which are greatly multiplied in fatty degenera- tion of the heart. NERVE TISSUE. The nervous system consists Fic. 46.—Nerve fibres of various kinds. a. Showing the axis cylinder and pri- mitive sheath, b. Another, with axis cylinder, jifter treatment witli bichro- mate of potash, c. A fibre, treated with collodiuin, .showing the axis cylinder, primitive sheatli, and nodes of Ranvier. d. A non medullatcd fibre, .showing the axis cylinder and primitive sheath. c.A non-medull.ated fibre from the olfactory of tlic calf. /,.(/, h- Fiiie fibres from the brain with axi.s cylinders. The fibre g (niitu.s with the process of a ganglion cell by the branch marked *. brO-.spinal ganglia. of owve centres and of rounded 01 flattened cords, called nerves^ whicli connect the centres with each othei', and bring them into relation with the surface of the body, the muscles, and the different organs. The brain and spinal cord constitute the great nervous centre, or cerebro-spinal axis, and the great majority of the nerves spring from this centre or are connected with it. Theri' also exists a secondary system oi' nerves called sympathetic, the cen- tres of which occur in the form of numerous minute masses named ganglia, which are distributed chiefly in the thorax and alxlo- men, and are intimately connected with the nerves going to the organs contained in those cavities. The sympathetic and cerebro-spinal nerves have frequent communica- tions with each other, which form complicated net\\'orks or j^lexiLScs. The nerve tissues are readily separable into two forms, the white and the grey; the former con.sti- tutes the greater portion of the interior of the brain, the outer part of the spinal cord, and all the nerves which spring from these ; the latter exists in the in- terior of the spinal cord, on llie surface of the brain, in the in- terior of the Ijrain near its l);ise, and in the sympathetic and cere- The structural elements of the nervous system