345 FASCIA LATA. and passing outwards beliind tlie sheath of the femoral vessels, divides into two layers ; the anterior layer is continuous with that portion of the iliac fascia which forms the sheath of the iliacus and psoas muscle, the posterior layer is lost upon the capsule of the hip-joint. The interval between the falciform border of the iliac portion and the opposite surface of the pubic portion is closed by an areolo- fibrous layer, derived from the deep layer of the superficial fascia, and pierced by numerous openings for the passage of arteries, veins, and lymphatic vessels, the cribriform fascia. The cribriform fascia lies superficial to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and forms one of the coverings of femoral hernia. When the iliac portion of the fascia lata is removed from its attachment to Poupart's ligament Fig. 236.—Section of the struc- tures which pass beneath the crural arch. 1. Poupart's liga- ment. 2, 2. Iliac portion of the fascia lata, attached along the margin of the crest of the ilium, and along Poupart's ligament, as far as the spine of the puhes (3). 4. Pubic portion of the fascia lata, continuous at 3 with the iliac portion, and passing outwards behind the sheath of the femoral vessels to its outer border _at 3, where it divides into two layers; one is con- tinuous with the sheath of the psoas (6), and iliacus (7); the other (3) is lost upon the cap- sule of the hip-joint (9). TO. The anterior crural nerve. 11. Gim- bernat's ligament. 12. The crural ring. 13. Femoral vein. 14. Femoral artery; the two vessels and the ring are sur- rounded by the femoral sheath, and thin septa are sent between the anterior and posterior wall of the sheath, dividing the artery from the vein, and the vein from the crural canal. and turned aside, the sheath of the femoral vessels (the femoral or crural canal) is brought into view ; and if Poupart's ligament be carefully divided, the sheath may be isolated, and its continua- tion with the transversalis and iliac fascia demonstrated. In this view, the sheath of the femoral vessels is an infundibuliform con- tinuation of the abdominal fasciae, closely adherent to the vessels a little way down the thigh, but much larger than the vessels it contains at Poupart's ligament. If the sheath be opened, the artery and vein will be found lying side by side, and occupying the outer two-thirds of the sheath, leaving an inf undilDuliform interval between the vein and inner wall of the sheath ; this portion of the sheath is distinguished under a different title and called crural sheath. The superior opening of the space is named the femoral or crural ring; it is bounded in front by Poupart's ligament, behind by