AR'J'ICULA'JIONS. Instances of this form of joint a7'e nuinerons ; tliey conipreliend tliL" dhow and phalangeal joints in the u])pei' extremity ; tlie knee, ankle, and phalangeal joints in the lower extremity. The articula- tion of t he lower jaw exhibits an example of the combination of this form of joint with the preceding, the joint between the interarticular cartilage and eminentia articularis i)eing arthrodial, and that be- tween the cartilage and the condyle ginglymous. The form of the ginglymoid joint is soiiiewhat quadrilateral, each of its four sides being provided with a ligament, which is named from its position, anterior, posterior, infernal lateral, or external lateral. The lateral ligaments are thick and strong, and the chief bond of union between the bones. The anterior and fstei-ior are thin and loose in order to pei'mit the required extent of movement. Trochoides or lateral ginglymus (pivot-joint) is a form of joint f)f which there exist only two examples in the human body, namely, the articulation of the anterior arch of the atlas and transverse liga- ment with the odontoid process of the axis, and the superior radio- ulnar joint. In the first of these a ring conqDosed partly of bone and partly of ligament rotates round a ])ivot, in the second the rounded bone moves within a ring formed of ligamentous filjres ; in both the movement is purely rotatory. Condylarthrosis {condyloid articulation) is a variety of joint in which an ovoid condyle is received into an elliptical cavity, so as to permit of flexion, extension, abduction,adduction, and circumduction, but no axial rotation. Examples of this form are seen in the wrist- joint, and metacarpo-phalangeal and metatarso-phalangeal articula- tions. Enarthrosis (eV, in, apdpaxris) is the most extensive in its range of motion of all the movable joints. From the manner of connection and form of the bones in this articulation, it is called the ball-and- socket joint. There are two instances in the body, namely, the hi]) and the shoulder. The ball-and-socket joint has a circular form ; and, in place of the foui' distinct ligaments of the ginglymus, is enclosed in a bag of ligamentous membrane, called capsular licjament. We may add to the preceding the cari)o-metacarpal articulation of the thumb, although not strictly a ball-and-socket joint, from the great extent of motion which it enjoys, and from the nature of the ligament connecting the bones. Some authors make a s])ecial geiuis for tliis joint, under the title of art'.culation bj/ recipirocal surfaces. MOVEMENTS OF JOINTS. The motions of joints may be referred to four heads, viz.. Gliding, Angular movement. Circumduction, and Rotation. I. Gliding is the simple movement of one articulai- surface on another, and exists to a greater or less extent in all the joints. In the least movable joints, as in the cai'pus and tai'sus, this is the only motioii which is pei-niitted. Gliding is, in certain joints,