SUPINATOK LONGUS. 333 Dissection —Tlie iiiieguineut is to be divided and turned aside, and the fascia removed in tire same manner as for tlie anterior bracliial region. , . , The SUPINATOR LONGUS is placed along the radial border of the forearm. It arises from the npper two-thirds of tlie external supra- condylar ridge of the liumerus, reaching as higli as the musculo- spiral groove, and from the external intermus- cular septum, passes for- ward to the anterior as- ]iect of tlie elbow-joint, and ends in a long flat tendon, which descends the forearm to be inserted into the outer side of the base of the styloid process of the radius. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the extensor ossis iiieta- carpi pollicis, extensor prirai internodii pollicis, and deep fascia of the fore- arm. By its deep surface with the brachialis anti- cus, extensor carpi radiali.s longior, tendon of the biceps, supinator brevis, pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sul)- liniis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, pronator quadratus, radius, nius- culo-spiral nerve, radial and posterior interosseous nerve, and radial artery and veins. Nerve- suppl y.—A. special branch of the musculo-spiral. Dissection.—Tliis muscle must be divided through the middle, and the two ends turned aside to expose the next muscle. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS LONGIOR arises from the lower third of the external supi-acondylar ridge, immediately below the preceding, and from tlie intermuscular septum. Its tendon passes through a groove in the radius behind the styloid process, to l)e inserted into the base of the metacarpal lione of the inclex-finger. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the suijinatoi' longus. Fig. 230. — Superficial layer of muscles of tli'e posterior aspect of the forearm, i. Biceps. 2. Brachialis anticus. 3. Lower part of the triceps, inserted into the ole- cranon. 4. Supinator longus. 5. Extensor carpi radialis longior. 6. Extensor carpi radialis brevior. 7. Tendons of insertion of these two muscles. 8. Extensor commu- nis digitoi'u 111. 9. Ex- tensor minimi digiti. 10. Extensor carpi ulnaris. 11. Anco- neus. 12. Flexor carpi\xlnaris. 13. Ex- tensor ossis meta- carpi and extensor prinii internodii ly- ing together. 14. Ex- tensor secundi inter- nodii ; its tendon is seen crossing the tendons of the ex- tensor carpi radiali.s longior and brevior. 15. I*()sterior annular ligament. The ten- dons of the common extensor are seen on the back of the hand, and their mode of distribution on the dorsum of the fingers.