CEREBRUM. edge of the fornix, and being attached to the hippocampus major in the descending horn of the lateral ventricle, is also termed Uenia. hippocampi. The fornix is a white layer of medullary substance, of which a portion only is seen in this view of the ventricle. The anterior cornu is triangular in form, sweeping outwards and terminating by a point in the anterior lobe of the brain, at a short distance ivom its siu-face. It has projecting into its cavity the nucleus caudatus of the corjaus striatum. The posterior cornu curves inwards, as it extends back into the posterior lobe of the brain and likewise terminates near the surface. An elevation corresponding with the calcarine fissure on the inner surface of the hemisphere, projects into the area of this cornu, and is called the hippocam'pus vdnor or calcar avis. The middle or descending cornu, in descending into the middle kibe of the brain, forms a very considerable curve, and alters its direction several times as it proceeds. Hence it is described as passing backwards and outwards and dowTiwards, and then turning forwards and inwards. This complex expression of a very simple curve has given origin to a symbol, formed of the primary letters of the term, by \\ hich the student is enabled to recollect more easily the course of the cornu, bodfi. It is the largest of the three cornua, and terminates close to the fissure of Sylvius, after having cur^■ed around the crus cerebri. The middle cornu should now be laid open by inserting the, little finger into its cavity, and making it serve as a director for the scalpel in cutting away the side of the hemisphere, so as to expose it completely. The superior boundary of the middle cornu is formed by the fibres of the corpus callosum, as they arch downwards to reach the temporo-sphenoidal lobe ; with these the tail of the nucleus caudatus and the fibi-es of the ttenia semicircularis are united. The inferior wall presents for examination the following parts :— Hippocampus major. Corpus fimbriatuiu, Pes hippocampi. Choroid plexus, Pes accessorius. Fascia dentata, Transverse fissure. The hippocampus major or cornu ammonis is a considerable projection from the inferior wall, and extends tlie whole length of the middle cornu. Its extremity is likened to the foot of an animal, from its presenting a number of knuckle-like elevations on the sur- face, and is named 2^es hipiJocamjn. Tlie hippocampus major corre- sponds to the sulcus on the inner side of the gyrus foi'nicatus, as that convolution winds I'ound beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum to end in the uncinate gyrus. If the hippocampus he cut across the section will be seen to resemble the extremity of a convoluted scroll, consisting of alternate layers of white and grey substanci'. 4i