214 KNEE-JOINT. and heads of the gastrociieiriius. The middle portion of the liga- ment supports tlie iiopliteal artery and vein, and is perforuled Ijy several openings for the passage of branches of the azygos articular artery and the nerves of the joint. The internal lateral ligament ligamentous fibres attached above is a broad and trapezoid layer of to the tubercle on tlie internal condyle of the femur, and below to the inner tuberosity and upper part of the shaft of the tibia. It is intimately connected with the edge of the internal semilunar cartilage and with the coronary ligament, and by its posterior edge becomes blended with the ligament of Winslow. It is crossed at its lower part by the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi-tendinosus, from which it is separated by a synovial bursa, and has passing beneath it the anterior slip of the semi- membranosus tendon and the in- ferior internal articular artery. External Lateral Ligaments. —The long external lateral liga- ment is a strong and round cord, which descends from the pos- terior part of the tubercle on the external condyle of the femur to the outer part of the head of the fibula. It is covered in by the tendon of the biceps, and has passing beneath it the tendon of origin of the popliteus muscle, and the inferior external arti- cular artery. The short external lateral ligament is an irregular fasci- culus situated behind the pre- ceding, arising from the external condyle near the origin of the head of the gastrocnemius muscle, and inserted into the middle of the outer surface of the head of the fibula. It is firmly connected with the external semilunar fibro-cartilage, and appears principally intended to connect that cartilage with the fibula: sometimes it is lost superiorly in the capsular ligament without reaching the femur The capsular ligament consists of thin fibres which fill up the interval left between the patella in the centre and the lateral liga- FiG. 173.—Anterior view of the ligaments of the knee-joint, i. Ligamentum pa- tellse. 2. Patella covered by ligamentous fibres. 3. Tubercle of tibia. 4. Tendon of rectus. 5. Long external lateral liga- ment. 6, 6. Internal lateral ligament. 7. Head of fibula. 8. Insertion of sartorius. 9. Tendon of popliteus. 10. Insertion of gracilis. 11. Tendon of adductor magnus prolonged into internal lateral ligament. 12. Insertion of semi-tendinosus.