467 VEINS OF THE ABDOMEN. opening in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, terminates in the inferior and posterior part of the right auricle. It has no valves. It is in relation from below upwards, in front with the mesentery, transverse duodenum, portal vein, pancreas, and liver, which latter nearly and sometimes completely surrounds it; behind it rests on the vertebral column and right crus of the diaphragm, from which it is separated by the right renal artery and right lumbar arteries ; to the right it has the peritoneum and sympathetic nerve; to the left the aorta. The tributaries which the inferior vena cava receives in its course are the— Lumbar, Supra-renal, Eight spermatic, Inferior phrenic. Renal, Hepatic. The lumbar veins, four in number at each side, collect the venous blood from the muscles and integument of the loins, and spinal veins : the left are longer than the right on account of the position of the vena cava, and pass behind the aorta in order to reach that vessel. These veins commiinicate with each other by branches which j^ass in front of the transverse processes of the vertebrae {ascending lumbar vein). The right spermatic vein is formed by the two veins which return the blood from the venous plexus of the spermatic cord (spermatic or pampiniform plexus). These veins follow the course of the spermatic artery, and unite to form the single trunk which opens into the inferior vena cava. The left spermatic vein terminates in the left renal vein. The ovarian veins represent the spermatic veins of the male, and collect the venous liloocl from the ovaries, round ligaments, and Fallopian tubes. They communicate with the uterine sinuses, and terminate as in the male. The renal or emulgent veins return the blood from the kidneys ; their branches are situated in front of the divisions of the renal arteries, and the left opens into the vena cava somewhat higher than the right. ^ The left is longer than the right in consequence of the position of the vena cava, and crosses the aorta immediately below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It receives the left spermatic vein, which terminates in it at right angles : hence the jnore frequent occurrence of varicocele on the left than on the right side ; it also receives the left inferior phrenic and left supra-renal. - The supra-renal veins terminate pai-tly in the renal veins, and partly in tlie inferior vena cava. The inferior phrenic veins return the blood from the ramifica- tions of the phrenic arteries ; they o]ien into the inferior vena cava. The hepatic veins form two principal trunks and numerous •smaller channels wliich open into the inferior vena cava, while that vessel is situated in the posterior border of the liver. The hepatic veins commence in the liver by minute venules, the intralobular