SPHENOID BONE. sixth nerves, and some brandies from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, with the ophthahnic vein. ^ The greater wings (alce-sphenoids) present three surfaces; a superior or cerebral, ^^•hich forms' part of the middle fossa of the base of the skull; an anterior surface, which assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit; and an external surface, divided into two parts by the pterygoid ridge. The superior surface is concave, and receives the anterior part of the temporo-splienoidal lobe of the cerebrum ; at its internal border, where the greater wing joins the body, and immediately behind the sphenoidal fissure, is a circular opening, foramen rotundum, through which passes the superior maxillary branch of the fifth nerve. Behind and external to this, is a large foramen c^Wadi foramen ovale; it transmits the inferio]' maxillary di\asion of tlie fifth nerve, the small meningeal artery, and lesser petrosal nerve. At the inner side of the foramen ovale a small opening is sometimes found ; it is the foramen Vesalii, and transmits a small vein. The anterior or orbital surface looks into the orbit; it is cpiadrilateral in shape, and its posterior border, which bounds the sphenoidal fissure inferiorly, is usually marked by a slight pro- minence, for the attachment of part of the external rectus muscle ; its inferior edge forms the outer boundary of the spheno-maxillary fissure ; its outer edge is rough for articulation with tlie malar bone. The superior part of the external surface enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, the inferior portion forms part of the zygomatic fossa. Tlie ptenjgoid ridge, dividing the two, gives attachment to the upper origin of the ]Dterygoideus externus muscle. The spinous processes are the posterior terminations of the greater wings ; they project backwards, and are received into the angular interval between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bones. Near its apex each process is pierced by a small opening, foramen spinosum, for the middle meningeal vessels, and extending downwards from the apex is a short spine, which gives attachment to the long internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and to the laxator tympani muscle. The external border of the spinous process is rough, to articulate with the lower border of the squamous portion of the temporal bone ; the internal border forms the anterior Ijoundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii, and is somewhat grooved for the reception of the Eustachian tube. The pterygoid processes descend perpendicularly from the base of the greater wings, and form in the articulated skull the lateral boundaries of the posterior nares. Each process consists of an ex- ternal and internal plate, partly united in front, but divergent beliind, so as to enclose a space called the pterygoid fossa, and sepa- rated below by an interval, the pterygoid notch, which receives the tuberosity of the palate bone. The external plate is broad and thin, giving attachment, by its external surface, to the external pterygoid muscle, and by its internal surface to the internal pterygoid. The internal pterygoid plate is long and narrow, terminating at its extre- mity by a curved hook, the ham.ular process, around which plays the