INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 43° foramen to the space between the gemellus inferior and quadratuf; I'emoiis, where it inosculates with the ischiatic artery. In its course it inosculates also with the internal circumflex, and sends a small branch through the notch in the acetabulum to supply the liga- mentum teres. The obturator artery sometimes arises from the external iliac, but more frequently from the epigastric branch of that artery, in which case it runs down directly to the obturator foramen, either on the outer or inner side of the crural ring,—if to the inner side it is in contact with Gimbernat's ligament, and is in danger in the operation for femoral hernia ; fortunately it is but rarely found in this dan- gerous position. The ISCHIATIC ARTERY is thfelarger of the two terminal branches of the anterior division of the internal iliac. It passes downward.'; in front of the pyriformis and sacral plexus of nerves, lying inter- nally to the pudic artery, to the lower part of the great ischiatic foramen, where it escapes from the pelvis between the inferior border of the pyriformis and coccygeus. It then descends in the space between the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium in company with the ischiatic nerves, and divides into several branches, the principal of which are—coccygeal, inferior gluteal, comes nervi ischiatici, and muscular. The coccygeal branch pierces the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, and is distributed to the coccygeus and levator ani, and to the integument around the anus and coccyx. The inferior gluteal branches, three or four in number and of large size, are distributed to the gluteiis maximiis muscle, anasto- mosing with branches of the superior gluteal artery. The comes nervi ischiatici is a slender l^ranch, which accom- panies the great ischiatic nerve, extending as far as the lower part of the thigh. The muscular branches supply the muscles of the posterior part of the hip and thigh, and inosculate with the internal and ex- ternal circumflex arteries, obturator, and sixperior perforating ; some branches are also sent to the hip-joint. The INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY, the other terminal branch of the anterior trunk of the internal iliac, descends externally to the ischiatic artery to the lower j)art of the great ischiatic foramen. It emerges from the pelvis through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen between the lower border of the j)yriformis and the coccygeus, crosses the spine of the ischium, and re-enters the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen ; in the next place it passes forward on the internal obturator muscle, enclosed in the sheath of obturator fascia forming Alcock's canal, to the ramus of the ischium, being situated at about an inch from the margin of the tuberosity; it then ascends by the side of the ramus of the ischium and pubes, and near the symphysis pubis pierces the triangular ligament of the perineum and divides into two terminal branclies, the artery of the corpus cavernosum and the arteiy of the dorsum of the penis.