256 muscles' of the tongue. closely connected with its fellow and with the Ijorder of the following. Relations.—By its superficial or inferior surface with the mylo- hyoid ; by the deeio or superior surface with the lower border of tlie genio-hyo-glossus. Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal nerve. The GENIO-HYO-GLOSSUS {yXSxraa, the tongue) is a triangular muscle, narrow and pointed at its origin from the lower jaw, Ijroad and fan-shaped at its attachment to the tongue. It arises from a tubercle aljove that of the genio-hyoid, and spreads out to be inserted into the Avliole length of the tongue, from base to apex, and into the body of the os hyoides. Relations.^—By its inner surface with its fellow of the oppo.sile side. By its outer surface with the mylo-hyoid, hyo-glossus, stylo- glossus, lingualis, sublingual gland, lingual artery, gustatory ner\ e, and hypoglossal nerve. By its upper border with mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, in the situation of the frsenum lingua'; V)y its loiver border with the genio-hyoid. Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal nerve. Actions.—All the memljers of this group of muscles act on the OS hyoides when the lower jaw is fixed, and on the lower jaw when the OS hyoides is drawn downwards and fixed by its depressor muscles. They act, therefore, as depressors of the jaw or as elevatoi s of the hyoid bone. The genio-hyo-glossus is, moreover, a muscle of the tongue ; its action upon tliat organ will be considered witli the next group. Fourth Group.—Muscles of the Tongue. Genio-hyo-glossus, Lingualis, Hyo-glossus, Stylo-glossus, Palato-glossus. Dissection.—These are already exposed by the preparation we have just made ; there remains, therefore, only to dissect and examine thena. The substance of the tongue is chiefly composed of muscular fibres; these are divisible into two sets, the extrinsic and in- trinsic. The extrinsic muscles are the genio-hyo-glossus, hyo- glossus, stylo-glossus and palato-glossus. The intrinsic muscles of the tongue form the great bulk of that organ, and are known collectively under the general title of lingualis. The genio-hyo-glossus, the first of these muscles, has been de- scribed with the last group. , ^ The HYO-GLOSSUS is a square-shaped plane of muscle, arising from the whole length of the great cornu, the lesser cornu, and side of the body of the os hyoides ; and inserted between the stylo-glos.sus and lingualis into the side of the tongue. The direction of the fibres which arise from the body is obliquely backwards ; those from the <'-reat cornu pass obliquely forwards ; hence they are described by