S40 CRANIAL NERVES. i tioor of tlie fourtli ventiiclc, iiuiuediately Ijelow tlie lateral rece.>.s and (2) from grey matter in the sides of the Sylvian aqueduct ((h- scendiny root). The sensory root springs (i) from a long nucleus placed beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle and extending into the medulla in tlie region of the funiculus cuneatus (ascendinrj root). and (2) fi'om the nerve cells of the formatio reticularis in the medulla and pons. The OPHTHALMIC NERVE is the nerve of sensation of the eyel)all, lachrymal gland, mucous membrane of the eye and nose, integuirieut of the forehead and nose, and muscles of the eyebrow and foreliead. It arises from the upper part of the Gasserian ganglion by a short trunk, about three-quarters of an inch in length ; passes forwards iu the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, lying externally to the other nerves, and divides into three 1)ranches. Previously to its division it receives several filaments from the carotid plexus, and gives off a small recurrent nerve, which passes backwards with the recurrent branch of the fourth nerve between the two layers of the tentorium to the lin- ing membrane of lateral sinus. The branches of the ophthalmic nerve are the— Frontal, Lachrymal, Nasal. The frontal nerve enters the orbit imme- diately to the outer side of the fourth nerve, and passing forwards, for some distance, upon the leA'ator palpebrae muscle, divides into a supra-orbital and supra-troclilear branch. The supra - orbital branch, the proper cou- FiG. 321. —Superficial dissection of the nerves of tinuatioil of the lierve, the orbit, i. Supra-trochlear nerve. 2. Supra- ,-,nc:opq nnt nf the orbit orbital nerve. 3. Obliquus superior. 4. Lachry- paSSes OUt 01 uie vi_ mal gland. 5. Infra-trochlear nerve. 6. Levator through the SUpra-Oroitai palpebras superioris. 7. Nasal nerve (fifth). 8. notcll, ill company with Frontal nerve (fifth). 9. Optic nerve. 10. Rectus , cmva nvhUil tvtevY superior, n. Third nerve. 12. Lachrymal nerve, the SUpia-Ollntai aitei), 13. Fourth nerve. 14. Gasserian ganglion of fifth, and after giving Illa- 15. Sixth nerve. ments to the upper eye- lid, muscles of the forehead and ])ericraiiium, divides into two cutaneous branches, internal and external. The internal branch pierces the occipito-frontalis and is distributed to the integument as