SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. bone; it presents a deep depression towards its centre, the caninr fossa, which gives attachment to tlie levator ancjuli ort^: Immechately above this fossa is t\.. infraorbital foroLen, th ternii tion oi the infraorbital canal, transmitting the infraorbital nerv.- and artery ; and above the infraorbital foramen is tlie lower mS . o the orbit, continuous externally with the rough articular surff of the malar process, and internally with a thick ascending platc- of't Wl T^Tl ^'^TT • "l^^-a^^'^^ital foramen and the margin' or the orbit, tha levator lahii SK.penoris 23roprius muscle haa its orifriu Towards the middle line of the face the external surface is bounded" by the concave border of the opening of the nose; this border i< projected forwards at its inferior termination into a sharij process forming, A^vith a similar process of the opposite bone, the nasal spine iieneath the nasal spine, and above the two superior incisor teeth is a slight depression, the incisive ov myrtifarm fossa, which gives origin to the depressor labii superioris alceque nasi muscle. Above and a Fig. 109.—Superior maxillary bone of the right side as seen on its lateral aspect, i. External or facial surface; the depression in whicli tliecipher is placed IS the canine fossa. 2. Posterior, or zygomatic sur- face. 3. Superior or orbital surface. 4. Infra- orbital foramen, situated immediately below the cipher. 5. Infraorbital canal, leading to the infra- orbital foiamen. 6. Inferior border of tbe orbit 7. Malar process. 8. Nasal process. 9. Lateral boundary of the anterior nares. 10. Xasal spine. II. Incisive or myrtiform fossa. 12. Alveolar pro- cess. 13. The internal border of the orbital surface, which articulates with the eth ni oid and nalate bone! 14. Concavity which articulates with the lachrymal bone, and forms the commencement of the nasal duct. 15. Nasal crest of the palate process, i. Two incisor teeth, c. Canine, h. Two bicuspid teeth. m. Three molars. little to tlie outer side of the fossa the compressor nasi has its origin. The myrtiform fos.sa is divided from the canine fossa by a perisen- dicular ridge {cunine ridge) corresponding with the root of the canine tooth. The inferior boundary of the facial surface is the alveolar jDrocess which contains the teeth of the upper jaw ; and the facial is separated from the zygomatic surface by a strong projecting eminence, the malar process. The internal or nasal surface presents a large irregular opening, leading into the antrum ; this opening is nearly closed in the articu- lated skull by the ethmoid, palate, lachrymal, and inferior turbi- nated bone. In front of the opening of the antrum, is the strong ascending plate of the nasal process, marked inferiorly by a rough horizontal ridge, inferior tnrbinal crest, which gives attachment to the inferior turbinated bone. The concave depression immediately above this ridge corresponds with the middle meatus of the nose, that below the ridge with the inferior meatus. BetAveen the nasal process and the opening of the antrum is a deep vertical groove,