tinuous with the skin 613 NASAL FOSS^. nostril. foiir small cartilaginous plates (sesamoid cartilages), wliicli are appendages of the alar cartilage. The whole of the cartilages are connected with each other, and to the bones, by perichon- drium, Avhich, from its membranous structure, permits of the freedom of motion existing be- tween them. The lower margin and back part of the ala of the nose is devoid of cartilage, and is com- posed of areolar and elastic tissue to which the skin is closely ad- herent ; it resembles the lobule of the ear. 5. The mucous mem- brane, lining the inte- rior of the nose, is con- externally, and with the pituitary membrane of the nasal fossae within. Around the en- trance of the nostrils it is provided with the vibrissa;. 6. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the nose are—the lateral nasal from the facial, the artery of the septum from the superior coronary, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and the infra-orbital. Its nerves are—the facial, infra-orbital, infra-trochlear, and nasal branch of the ojihthalmic. NASAL FOSS^. To obtain a good view of the nasal fossce, the face must be divided through the nose by a vertical incision, a little to one side of the middle line. The nasal fossae are two irregular, compressed cavities, extending backwards from the nose to the pharynx. They are bounded supe- riorhj by the lateral cartilages of the nose, and by the nasal bones, ethmoid, and sphenoid ; inferiorly by the hard palate ; and, in the middle line, they are separated by a bony and cartilaginous septum. A plan of the boundaries of the nasal fossae will be found at p. 129. On the outer wall of each fossa, in the dried skull, are three pro- jecting processes, termed spongy bones. The two superior belong to the ethmoid, the inferior is a separate bone. In the fresh fossse these are covered with mucous membrane, and serve to increase the surface of that membrane by their prominence and convoluted form. The space intervening between the superior and middle spongy bone is the superior meatus ; the space between the middle and inferior, Fig. 350. — The cartilages and bones of the nose viewed from the side. 1. Nasal bone. 2. Nasal pro- cess of the superior max- illary bone. 3. Cartilage of the septum. 4. Lateral car- tilage. 5, 5. Alar carti- lage. 6. Inner portion of the alar cartilage. 7. Sesamoid cartilages. 8. Areolar tis- sue of the ala nasi. g. Aper- ture of the