'75 PART III. ARTHROLOGY. Articulations or joints are the means by wliicli the bones of the skeleton are united" together, tlie same terms being also applied to the union between cartilages when these are adapted for movenient on each other, as, for instance, in the larynx. The connections between the bones may take place simply l)y the intervention of a small quantity of connective tissue, and the union be so close as to render movement impossil)le, forming an immovable joint, or Syn- arthrosis ; or the bones may be widely separated, and tlie substance lying between them and connecting them together may be so yield- ing as to admit of a limited degree of movement in several direc- tions, forming a yielding joint, or Amphi-arthrosis. In all the articulations of the limbs, however, Ave find a more elaborate and perfect arrangement admitting of much freer motion, constituting a movable joint, or Diarthrosis. In the latter the expanded ends of the bones are coated by a thin layer of cartilage, are connected togetlier l)y l)ands of fibrous tissue called ligaments, and are lubri- cated by the Huid secreted by a synovial memljrane which lines the inner surface of the ligaments ; in many joints, also, a disc of libro-cartilage is interposed between the articulai' surfaces, and the cavity divided into two, the advantages of a double joint being thus secured. The structures entering into the composition of a joint are bone, cartilage, areolar and adipose tissue, elastic tissue, fibrous tissue, and synovial memljrane ; the microscopic anatomy of these has been fully descril)ed in Part I. of this work, but it remains to point out their peculiar arrangement in the construction of joints. The ariiciUar ends of lone/ hones are expanded and rendered either I concave or convex, so as to fit each other ; they are formed of can- cellous tissue with an outer thin coating of dense bone. This layer of compact bone is called the articular lamella; it is distinguished from ordinary bone by the absence of Haversian canals, the large ^ size of the lacunae, and by the canaliculi being few in number, and so short as not to communicate with those derived from neighbour- ing lacuna). The vessels of the cancellous tissue do not penetrate the articular lamella, but turn back in loops before reaching it. In some places the bones are produced into projecting processes which