LUMBAK NERVES. 586 noiis nerve. 23. 17. Branches to sheath of the femoral arteiy, and divides into an anterior and an inner branch. Previously to its division it gives off three cutaneoii> filaments, which pierce the fascia near the internal saphena vein, and following tha course of that ves- sel, are distributed to the integument of the inner side of the thigh as low down as tlie knee. The upper- most of these fila- ments passes tlirough the sa- phenous opening, the middle bi- comes subcuta- neous at about the middle of the thigh, and the lowest pierces the fascia at its lower third. The anterior branch 2)asses down the imier side of the thigh, and pierces the fascia at its lower third, near the internal saphena vein. It then divides into two twigs, one of which continues onwards to the inner side of the knee; while the other curves outwards to its outer side, com- municating in its course with n branch of the long saphenous nerve. The inner branch descends along the inner and posterior Ijorder of the sartorius muscle to the knee, Avhere it pierces the fascia lata, and gives off several cutaneous twigs. It then sends a small braneli of communication to the long saphenous nerve, and passes dowu- FiG. 340.—Nerves of the thigh, i. Gangliated cord of sympathetic. 2. Third lum- bar nerve 3. Branches to iliacus inter- nus. 4. Fourth lumbar nerve. 5. Anterior cru- ral nerve. 6. Lumbo - sacral nerve. 7. Branch to pso- as. 8. Obturator nerve. 9. Ex- ternal cutane- ous nerve (cut). 10. Nerve to pectineus. 11. Superficial di- vision of ante- rior crural nerve (cut). 12. Superficial di- vision of ob- turator nei-ve. 13, 13. Sartori- us muscle. 14, 14. Adductor longus. 15. Bi'aiich to rec- tus. 16. Deep divisiou of ob- turator nerve. vastus inter- nus and cru- reus. 18. Ad- ductor brevis. 19. Branch to vastus inter- ims. 20. Ad- ductor magnus. 21. Vastus ex- teruus. 22, 22. Internal saphe- Rectus femoris. 24. Patellar branch of sa- phenous nerve. 25. Vastus in- terniis. 26. Gra- cilis. 26