542 CRANIAL NERVES. branch passea over the gland whicli it supplies on the upper surface The mfarior branch sup])lies the under surface of the gland upper lid, and outer angle of the eye. It gives off a branch which passes downwards to join the orbital branch of the superior maxillary, and from the connection between these two nerves, temporo-malar fila- ments are derived which pass through foramina in the malar bone to be distributed to the outer part of the face and the temple, communi- cating with branches of the facial and auriculo-temporal nerves. The nasal nerve enters the orbit between the two heads of the external rectus and between the two branches of the third nerve. It Fio. 323.—Nerves of the orbit seen from tlie outer side. i. Section of frontal bone. 2. Superior maxillary bone. 3. Part of si)henoid bone. 4. Levator palpebrae and supe- rior rectus muscles. 5. Superior oblique muscle. 6. Infe- rior oblique. 7. Ocular half of the external rectus drawn forwards. 8. Orbital half of the external rec- tus turned down- wards. On this muscle the sixth nerve is seen divid- ing into branches. 9. Inferior rectus. 10. Optic nerve. 11. Internal caro- tid artei-y emerg- ing from the eavei'nous sinus. 12. Ophthalmic artery. 13. Third nerve. 14. Branch of the third nerve to the inferior oblique muscle. Between this and the sixth nerve (8) is seen the branch which supplies the inferior rectus; its branch to the ophthalmic ganglion is seen proceeding from the upper side of the trunk of the nerve, at the bottom of the orbit. 15. Fourth nerve. 16. Trunk of the fifth nerve. 17. Gasserian ganglion. 18. Ophthalmic nerve. 19. Superior maxillary nerve. 20. Inferior maxillary nerve. 21. Frontal nerve. 22. Supra-orbital nerve. 23. Lacli- rymal nerve. 24. Nasal nerve; the small nerve seen between the nasal and frontal, is one of the branches of the upper division of the third nerve. 25. Nasal nerve passing over the internal rectus muscle to the anterior internal orbital for.atnen. 26. Infra-trochlear nerve. 27. A long ciliary branch of the nasal; another long ciliary branch is seen proceeding from tlie lower aspect of the nerve. 28. Long root of the ophthalmic ganglion, proceeding from the nasal nerve, and receiving the sympathetic root which joins it at an acute angle. 29. Ophthalmic ganglion, giving off from its fore-part the short ciliary nerves. 30. Globe of the eye. crosses the optic nerve in company with the o]ihtlialmic artery, and, passing over the internal rectus, enters the anterior internal orbital foramen,, by which it is conducted to the cribi'iform plate of the ethmoid bone. It then passes through the slit-like opening by the side of the crista galli, and descends into the nose, where it divides into an internal and external branch. The internal branch is dis- tributed to the mucous membrane ; tlie external branch, passing