SACRUM AND COCCYX. 86 witli a co]'ves]ion(ling iiotcli in the upper boi'der of the coccyx, foriiLS the foramen for tlie transmission of tlie fifth sacral nerve. The sacrum presents some \'ariety in respect of curvature, and of the numT)er of pieces which enter into its structure. The curve is often very sliglit, and situated only near the hjwer pai-t of the Ijone ; while in other subjects it is considerable, and occurs at the middle of the sacrum. It is sometimes composed of six pieces, moi-e rarely (jf four, and, occasionally, the first and second pieces remain perma- nently separate. The female sacrum is wider and shorter than the male, its ciu'vature is less, and is almost confined to the lower pai-t of the bone ; it also forms a greater angle with the rest of the A'erte- bral colvimn. Development.—By thirty-jive points of ossification ; five for each of the first three pieces—viz., one for the body, one for each lateral portion, and one for each lamina; and three for each of the last two—namely, one for the T)ody and one for each lateral portion. In the progress of growth, and after puberty, fourteen epiphyseal centres are added—namely, two for the surfaces of each body, one for eacli auricular siirface, and one for the thin edge of each lateral border. Ossification begins in the bodies of the sacral pieces .Somewhat later than in those of the true vertebrae ; the first three appearing during the eighth and ninth week, and the last two at about the middle of intra-uterine existence. Ossification of the laminae takes place during the interval between the sixth and ninth month. The epiphyses for the upper and inider surface of the bodies are developecV during the interval between the fifteenth and eighteenth year ; and for the auricular and marginal piece, after twenty. The two lower vertebral pieces, although the last to appear, are the first to be com^jleted (between the fourth and fifth year), and unite by their bodies. The luiion of the bodies takes place from below upwards, and finishes between the twenty-fifth and thirtieth year with the first two pieces. Articulation.—With four bones ; the last lumbar vertebra, osfsa innominata, and coccyx. Attachment of Muscles.—To seven pairs ; in front, pyriformis ; on the side, coccygeus ; and heliind, gluteus maximus, latissimus dorsi, erector .spiute, and multifidus spina). 1^ The COCCYX {k6kkv^, cuckoo, resi'.mbling a cuckoo's beak) is coni- posed of foTU' small pieces, v.-hich form the caudal ternnnation of the ver- tebral column. The su])erior piece is broad, and expands laterally into two transverse processes ; it is surmounted by an o\ al articular surface and two cornua, the former to articulate with the apex of Fig. 92.—Front view of the coccyx, i, 2, 3, 4. The four pieces of the bone, s, 5. The trans- verse processes of the first piece. 6. Articu- lar surface for the ex- tremity of the sacrum. 7, 7. The cornvia which articulate with the sacral cornua.