KNEE-JOINT. 2l8 but flexion is also limited during life by the contact of the leg with the thigh. In complete extension all the ligaments are put on the stretch, with the exception of the ligamentum patellae and the posterior crucial ligament. In the movements of flexion and ex- tension the patella in turn presents to the femoral surface each of the three facets into which the condylar surfaces of that bone are divided, this coaptation being associated with gliding. At the terniination of the act of flexion the patella rests with its inner vertical facet (seventh facet) against the outer part of the internal condyle, and its upper and outer facet against the front of the external condyle. At the end of extension the external condyle reaches its resting position before the internal, so that the latter continues to move backwards, thus rotating the femur inwards upon the tibia. When the knee is semi-flexed, a partial degree of rotation is permitted. Bursse.—The bursse in the neighbourhood of the knee-joint are numerous and important; three large ones are placed in front, and numerous small ones at the back of the joint. Those in front are —first, one, large and superficial, placed between the patella and subcutaneous tissue, it is this which becomes enlarged in the disease known as "housemaid's knee;" second, one between the common extensor tendon and the lower part of the shaft of the femur, it frequently communicates with the synovial pouch of the joint; the third is placed between the ligamentum patellae and the head of the tibia ; it also, sometimes, communicates with the cavity of the joint. The bursa3 at the back of the joint are chiefly connected with the tendons of muscles ; the most important are the following :—One placed between the tendons of the semi-membranosus and inner head of the gastrocnemius and the internal condyle ; this is the largest bursa in the popliteal region, and extends from the posterior in- ferior part of the internal condyle to the back of the inner tubero- sity of the tibia as low down as the upper border of the popliteus muscle. A second bursa lies between the anterior surface of the semi-membranosus tendon and the inner tuberosity of the tibia. Other bursse exist, between the tendon of the popliteus and the external lateral ligament, between the same tendon and the outer tuberosity of the tibia, between the tendon of the biceps and the external lateral ligament, and beneath the outer head of the gas- trocnemius. Nerve-supply.—Branches of the obturator, anterior crural, ex- ternal and internal popliteal. 3. ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE TIBIA AND FIBULA.—The tibia and fibula are held firmly connected by means of seven liga- ments, namely : — Anterior, f ^ Anterior, K j Posterior, p""^^ Posterior, J Interosseous membrane, Transverse. Interosseous inferior,