PATELLA. 163 lesser trochanter between the thirteenth and fourteenth. Tlie lesser trochanter joins the shaft about the seventeenth year, the great trochanter in the eighteenth year, the head during the nineteenth year, and the lower extremity soon after twenty. Articulations.—With three bones: os innominatum, tibia, and patella. Attachment of Muscles.—To hoenty-threc: by the rjreaier tro- chanter, to the gluteus niedius and minimus, pyriformis, gemellus superior, obturator internus, gemellus inferior, obturator externus, and quadratus femoris; l)y the lesser trochanter, to the common tendon of the psoas and iliacus. By the linea aspera, its outer li}), to the vastus externus, gluteus maximus, and short head of the biceps ; by its inner lip, vastus internus, pectineus, adductoi- brevis, and adductor longus ; by its middle lip, adductor magnus ; by the anterior part of the bone, cruraeus and subcrurajus ; l)y its condyles. gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteus. PATELLA. The patella is a sesamoid bone, develojR-d in tlic lendou of tlie ([uadricejts extensor muscle, and iisually descril)ed as a Ijone of tlie lower extremity. It is heart-shaped in figure, the broad end Ijeing dii-ected up-wards, the apex downwards ; the external surface is convex, and the internal divided by a ridge into two smooth surfaces, to articulate with tlie condyles of the femur. Tlie external articular surface, corresponding with the external condyle, is the large)' of the two, and serves to indicate the leg to which the bone Ijelongs. Each surface pre'^ sents a faint transverse line near its lower end, another near its upper border, so as to di\ ide them into three facets ; the internal surface has also a vertical line near its inner edge. To the U]i]ier border of the bone are attached the rectus femoris and crureus muscles, and to the \\\)\m- part of the lateral margins the expanded tendons of the vastus externus and internus, and l)y tlie inferior pointed process it is attached, tlirough means of a strong band called the lirjamentum jHitcllai, to the tubercle of the tibia. Development.—By a single centre, at about the middle of the third year. Articulations.—With the two condvles of the femur. Attachment of Muscles.—To four: rectus, crurceus, Aastus internus, vastus externus ; and to the ligamentum patelhe. Fio. 142.—ratclla of tliu l ight side. i. Surface of articulation with the external condyle of the femur. 2. Sur- face of articulation ■witli the internal con- dyle. 3. Apex of tlic bone.