LUNG. 692 blood to the lungs, accompanies the bronchial tulies to the lung, and divides as the tubes divide. The branches terniinate in capillary vessels, which form a dense network in the parietes of the alveolar passages and air-cells, and then converge to form the pulmonary veins, by which the arterial blood, purified in its passage through the capillaries, is returned to the left auricle of the heart. In their course through the lung, the artery is commonly found above and behind the bronchial tube, while the vein is below and in front. The bronchial arteries, branches of the thoracic aorta, ramify on the parietes of the bronchial tubes, and terminate partly in bron- chial veins which convey the venous blood to the vena azygos on the right side, and superior intercostal vein on the left; and j)artly in the pulmonary capillaries. The lymphatics on the surface of the lung form a fine sub-pleural plexus, communicating by means of stomata with the pleural cavity. Those in the substance of the lung consist of two sets, one of which forms an elaborate plexus beneath the mucous membrane of the bron- chial tubes, and the other originates in capillaries between the air-cells and alveolar passages. They all ter- minate in the bronchial glands at the root of the lung. These glands, very numerous and often of largi- size, are placed at the roots of the lungs, around tlie bronchi, and at the bifurcation of the trachea. In early life they resemljle lymphatic glands in other situations ; but in old age, and often in the adult, are black, and filled with carbonaceous matter, and occasionally with cal- cai'eous deposits. . The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and sympathetic. They form two plexuses : anterior pulmonary plexus, situated upon the front of the root of the lungs, and composed chiefly of fila- ments from the deep cardiac plexus ; and posterior pulmonary plexus, on the posterior aspect of the voot of the lungs, composed principallv of branches from the pneumogastric. The branches from these plexuses follow the course of the bronchial tubes, and arc distributed to the intercellular passages and air-cells. Fig. 406.—Capillai-y network of an air cell. a. Capillary network. 6. Terminal branch of the pul- monary artery encircling the cell.