143 ULNA. ULNA. The iihia is divisible into a §haft and two extremities. The upper extremity is large, and forms principally the articu ation ot the elbow • the lower extremity is small, and is excluded trom the wrist-jrant by an interarticular fibrocartilage. The upper extremity presents a semilunar concavity of large size, the areater sigmoid notch, for articulation with the humerus ; and on the outer side a lesser sigmoid notch, for the head of the radius. Bounding the greater sigmoid notch posteriorly is the olecranon pro- cess, and overhanging it in front, a pointed eminence with a rough triangular base, the coronoid process. The olecranon process (coXeV?/, elbow ; Kpdvov, head) terminates in front by a sharp beak, which in full extension passes into the olecranon fossa on the humerus ; behind this is a rough and prominent surface or tuberosity for the attach- ment of the triceps muscle ; and on the posterior aspect of the process a smooth triangu- lar area which is sul^cutaneous. The coronoid process has also a sharp beak in front, and below this a triangular, rough surface {tuberosity of the ulna) for the brachialis anticus, immediately to the inner side of which one head of the pronator radii teres is attached. Below the lesser sigmoid notch is a rough pit, which gives attachment to some fibres of the supinator Ijrevis. The shaft is prismoid in form, and presents three surfaces, anterior, posterior, and internal ; and three borders. The anterior surface is occupied by the flexor profundus digitorum for the upper three-fourths of its extent; and below, by a depression for the pro- nator quadratus muscle. A little above its middle is the nutrient foramen, directed upwards. On the posterior surface, at the upper part of the bone, is the triangular uneven depression for the anconeus muscle, bounded inferiorly by an oblique ridge which runs downwards from the posterior extremity of the lesser sigmoid notch. Below the ridge, the surface is marked into several grooves for the attachment of the extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis, extensoi' secundi internodii pollicis, and extensor indicis muscles. The Fig. 131.—The two bones of the fore-iinii seen from the front, i. Shaft of the ulna. 2. Greater sigmoid notch. 3. Lesser sigmoid notch, with which the head of the radius is articu- lated. 4. Olecranon process. 5. Coronoid process. 6. Nutrient foramen. 7. The sliarp ridges upon the two bones to which the interosseous mem- brane is attached. 8. Capitulum ulnaj. 9. Styloid process. 10. Shaft of the radius. 11. Its head surrounded by the smooth border for articulation with the orbicular ligament. 12. Neck of the radius. 13. Its tubercle. 14. The oblique line. 15. Lower extremity of the bone. 16. Styloid pro- cess.