SECRETING GLANDS. 6o in thii mvicoiis iiuiinbmne of the alimentary canal, where the fibres may also be traced l)etweeii the glands, and into the villous pro- jections. Also, in sbme parts, and especially in th(! intestinal canal, it contains abundance of lymphoid tissue. The arrangement of the vessels of the capillaiy plexus differs in each situation, so that a portion of mucous membrane under examination can be recognised l^y its vessels alone —as, for instance, the villi of the intestines, the air-cells of tlie lung, &c. The epithelium of mucous meml:)rane may l)e in a single layer or stratified, and the individual cells may be scaly, columnar, or ciliated. A peculiar vai-iety of epithelium is often seen among the ordinary columnar i,jc,. 71. — '^^^^^ actively secreting mucous membrane, which Goblet cell has been named "goblet epithelium" or "goblet cells." clTeTofcat '^^^^ mode of its formation from the ordinai'y columnar cells has been already described (see }). 9). Submucous Tissue.—The corium is connected to the structures on which it lies by a layer of areolar tissue, which is dense and firm in some situations, where its filn-es are continuous with the inter- lacing fibres of the corium ; but in most it is loose, and permits the corium to glide on the surface on which it lies, so that it may 1 le thrown into folds, or rugcB. The laxity of this submucous tissue renders it liable to be distended with fluid, as a result of inflamma- tion, as in the case of chemosis of the conjunctiA^a and oedema of tlie glottis. The submucous tissue alloAvs of the ada^^tation of the mucous membrane to the altered size of the organ, according as it is distended or contracted ; it lodges the deeper and larger mucous glands, gi\'es space for the sul)division and distribution of the blood-vessels and nerves, and contains lymph spaces and lymphatic plexuses, in free communication with the lymphatic capillaries of the mucous meni- brane. The arrangement of the mucous membrane, and the structure of the glands in connection with it, will be desci-ibed along with the anatomy of the organs of which it constitutes a part. SECRETING GLANDS. The simplest example of secreting structure is to be found in the serous membranes, which have on their surface a layei^ of endothelial cells, performing tlie work of secretion; beneath this, a sul)endothelial layer foi'med of connective-tissue corpuscles embedded in an albu- minous ground substance, while in the ground substance and beneath it there is a fine plexus of capillary vessels, furnishing the blood from which the secretion is separated. However complicated glands may appeal', it is easy to recognise in them the same three essential constituents as in serous membranes, namely, secreting cells, supporting tissue, and capillary vessels, but