ANTERIOR THORACIC REGION. 317 The palmar fascia is divided into three portions. A central portion, whicli occupies tlie middle of the palm, and two lateral l)ortions, which are thin and enclose the muscles of the borders of the hand, being continuous with the dorsal fascia. The central portion i.s strong and tendinous : it is narrow at the wiist, where it is attached to the annular ligament and receives the insertion of the tendon of the palmaris longus, and broad over the heads of the metacarj)al bones, where it divides into four jirocesses, each of which subdivides to embrace the I'oot of the corresponding finger. These processes are attached at the middle line to the sheath of the tendons, and at the side of each tingei- to the lateral and transverse ligament. The fascia is strengthened at this point of division by strong fasciculi of transverse fibres ; the arched interval caused by the bifurcation of each slip gives passage to the tendons of the flexor muscles, while the greater arches between the fingers transmit the digital vessels and nerves, and lumbricalis muscles. The palmar fascia is intimately adherent to the skin of the palm by numerous fine fibrous bands, and- gives attachment by its inner margin to the palmaris l)reA'is muscle. Beneath the skin of the fingers some tendinous liands are found, which are jirobably the representatives of the deeji fascia. They have been described by Cleland under the name of phalangeo- cutaneous ligaments, and pass from the sides of the liase of the first i^halanx of each finger to the skill on the back of the second, and from the sides of the l)ase of the second phalanx to the deep surface of the skin forming the pulp of the finger. Anterior Thoracic Region. Dissection.—Make an incision along the line of the clavicle, from the ujjper part of the sternum to the acromion process, and thence down the arm as far as the level of the lower border of the latis- sinius dorsi; a second carried transversely outwards from the base of the ensiform cartilage to the posterior border of the axilla ; and connect the two by a third, carried longitudinally along the middle of the sternum. The integument and superficial fascia are to be dissected separately from ott" the fibres of the muscle, and always in the direction of their course. For this purpose the dissector, if he have the right arm, will commence with the lower angle of the Hap; if the left, with the upper angle. He will thus expose the pectoralis major muscle in its whole extent. Pectoral is major, Pectoralis minor, Subclavius. The PECTORALIS MAJOR arises from the sternal half of the clavicle, fi-om half the sternum its whole length, from the cartilages of all t^ie true ribs, excepting tlie first and last, and from the apo- neurosis of the external obli.^ue muscle of the abdomen. From this extensive origin the fibr-es convei'ge to lie inserted bv a broad and folded tendon into the external bicipital ridge of the'humerus.