INFRA-SPINATUS AND TERES MUSCLES. 321 tlie greater tuberosity of tlie huinerus, the tendon being united near its attachment witli that of tlie infra-spinatus. The tendon cannot he seen until the acromion process is removed. Relations.—By its ui:i'per surface with the trapezius, clavicle, acromion, and coraco-acromial ligament. From the trapezius it is separated hj a strong fascia. By its loiver surface with the supra- .spinous fossa, supra-scapular vessels and nerve, origin of the omo- hyoid muscle, and upper j^art of the shoulder-joint. Nerve-supply.—The supra-scapular nerve, a branch from the fifth and sixth cervical. The INFRA-SPINATUS {infra, beneath; spina, the spine) is covered in by a layer of tendinous fascia, which must be removed before the fibres of the muscle can be seen, the deltoid muscle having been previously turned down from its scapular origin. It arises from the vfhole of the infra-spinous fossa, excej)ting the in- ferior angle, axillaiy border, and a small portion near the neck of the bone : from the spine of the scapula, and from the investing fascia; it is inserted into the middle depression of the greater tuberosity of the humerus, its tendon being blended with that of the supra-spinatus above and the teres minor below. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the deltoid, latissimus dorsi, trapezius, and integument. By its anterior surface with the infra-spinous fossa, supra-scapular and dorsal scapular vessels, and shoulder-joint. By its tipper border it is in relation with the spine of the scapula, and by the loioer with the teres major and minor, being closely united with the latter. Nerve-supply.—The supra-scapular nerve. The TERES MINOR {teres, round) arises from the posterior surface of the axillary border of the scapula for about the middle third of its extent ; it is connected with the lower border of the preceding muscle, and is inserted into the inferior depression of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. The tendons of the three preceding muscles are in immediate contact with the shoulder-joint. Relations.—By its posterior surface with the deltoid and integu- ment. By its anterior surface with the inferior border and part of the dorsum of the scapula, dorsalis scapulae vessels, scapular head of the triceps, and shoulder-joint. By its upper border mth the infra-spina- tus ; l)y the loiver with the teres major, and long head of the tricejDS. Nerve-supply.—A branch of the circumflex nerve. This branch is distinguished by a ganglionic enlargement, just before it enters the muscle. The TERES MAJOR nmscle arises from the dorsal surface of the inferior angle of the scapula, and from its axillary border ; it is mserted into tlie internal l)icipital ridge of the humerus, immediately liehind the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. At its origin this muscle IS covered liy the latissimus dorsi, but the latter shortly afterwards curves around its lower border and becomes placed in front; the two tendons at their insertion, one lying behind the other, are separated by a bursa.