DUCTS OF THE SALIVAKY GLANDS. 709 and flattened by pressure between tlie basement membrane and mucigenous cells ; these are called marginal cells {lunula of Gianuzzi). In serous alveoli the gland cells almost completely fill the alveolus, and M'hen the gland is at rest they are packed with distinct granules which obscure the nucleus ; during secretion the granules decrease in number and are limited to the periphery of the cell, so that the nucleus becomes distinct. The ducts of the salivary glands consist of a strong fibrous outer coat, beneath which are longitudinal and circular elastic layers, mixed with a few fibres of unstriped muscle ; the lining membrane is formed by a ^cfr. ^'eiitlte?i.UcSm basement membrane supportmg colum- tiie duct of a saii- nar epithelial cells. The epithelium J^SL. fimma^™'^' is remarkable for its vertical striation /jMffll ^/r.Grauularproto- at the part resting on the basement //|||j|U\str. plasm, str. strise. niembrane,j)robablydue to the presence ''sf'ir^-T^^' of rod-like bodies in the protoplasm. Vessels and Nerves.—The parotid gland is abundantly supj^lied with arteries by the external carotid ; the submaxillary by the facial and lingual; and the sublingual by the sublingual and submental branches of the lingual artery. The capillaries form a network around and in contact with the glandular vesicles. The nerves of the parotid gland are derived from the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary, from the auricularis magnus, and from the nervi molles accompanying the external carotid artery. In some animals the parotid also receives filaments from the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, through the lesser petrosal nerve and otic ganglion, but this distribution has not been proved to obtain in the human subject. The submaxillary gland is supplied by the branches of the submaxillary ganglion, chorda tymi3ani, sympa- thetic, lingual branch of the fifth, and sometimes filaments from the iiiylo-hyoid nerve ; and the sublingual by filaments from the sub- maxillary ganglion and lingual branch of the fifth nerve. Each salivary gland has three nerves distributed to it: (i) secretory filaments ending in the gland epithelium; (2) afferent branches, l)assing from the mucous surface on which the gland duct opens to the salivary centre ; and (3) vaso-clilator twigs to the blood-vessels supplying the gland. TEETH. Man is provided with two sets of teeth, wliicli appear the one in succession to the other ; the first are the teeth of childhood—they are called temporary, deciduous, or milk-teeth ; the second continue until old age, and are named permanent. The permanent teeth are thirty-two in number, sixteen in each jaw ; they are divisil)le into foiu' classes : incisors, of which there are four in each jaw, two central and two lateral; canine, two above and two below ; bicuspid or premolar, four above and four below ; and molars, six above and six below. '