238 ACTION OF ORBITAL MUSCLES. their uclion, the oblique muscle coiTecting the tendency of the rectus to cany the eyeball inwards, and to rotate the ball o)i its own axin. Ill all oblique movements of direction there is a combination of two recti with one oblique muscle ; the actions performed l)y the several niuscles, and the way in which they are associated, are well shown in the subjoined table taken from Beaunis' work :— Number of Muscles in Activity. One . Two . Direction of Line of Regard. Inwards . Outwards I Upwards. I Downwards. 'Inwards and Up- wards . Inwards and Down- wards . Thkee Outwards and U})- wards . Outwards and Down wards . Muscles Acting. Internal rectus. External rectus, f Superior rectus. ) Inferior oblique, j Inferior rectus. I Superior oblique. {Internal rectus. Superior rectus. Inferior oblique. {Internal rectus. Inferior rectus. Superior oblique. {External rectus. Superior rectus. Inferior oblique. !External rectus. Inferior rectus. Superior oblique. 5. Nasal Group.— Pyramidalis nasi, Compressor nasi, Dilatator naris. Depressor alae nasi. Dissection.—The incision ah'eady made down the centre of the nose is to be continued round the margin of the ala to the lower edge of the septum, from thence down the middle of the upper lij) to its free margin ; from this point it should be carried round the mouth to the middle of the lower lip, and from thence verticjiUy downwards to the chin. The whole of the flajj must now be c<xre- fuUy dissected back, care being taken to keep the knife very close to the inner sui'face of the skin. The PYRAMIDALIS NASI is a small pyramidal slip of muscular fibres sent downwards on the bridge of the nose by the occipito- frontalis. It becomes tendinous and is inserted into the tendinous expansion of the compressor nasi. Relations.—By its upper surface with the integument; by its under surface with the periosteum of the frontal and nasal bone. Its outer border corresponds with the edge of the orbicularis palpebrarum; its inner border with its fellow, from which it is separated by a narrow areolar interval. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial