288 EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING received between corresponding jiroceHses of the serratus niagiuiB the three lower, of the lati.ssinius doi-si. The fleshy fasciculi pro- ceeding from this extensive origin tei'iuinate on the front of the abdomen in a broad aponeurosis, and ])Osterioi'ly are inserted into the outer lip of the crest of the ilium for the anterior two-third length, and into the anterior superior spinous process. Tlie uj.<j- neurosis is united, in front, by its under surface, with tliat of tlie obhquus internus, forming the anterior wall of the sheath of the rectus, and is ivserted into the linea allia, front of the pubes, sjjine of the ]uibes, and pectineal line. The lower border of the aponeurosis, whicli is stretched between the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium and the spine of the pubes, is round from being folded inwards, and forms Poupart's ligament; the insertion into the pectineal line is Gimbernat's ligament. Just above the crest of the pubes is the external abdominal ring, a triangular opening formed by tlie separation of the filjres of the aponeurosis of the external oblique. It is oljlitpie in direction, and corresponds with the course of the fibres of the aponeurosis. It is bounded l)elow by the crest of the i)ubes ; on either side by the borders of the aponeurosis, which are termed pillars; and above In- some curved fibres (intercohomnar) which originate from Poupart's ligament, and cross the ujiper angle of the ring, to give it strength. 'Jlie external pillar, which is at the same time inferior from the obliquity of the opening, is inserted into tile spine of the ]nil)es; the internal or superior p)illar forms an interlacement with its fellow of the opposite side over the front of the symplwsis pubis. The inner fibres of the outer pillar pass behind the spermatic cord and internal pillar of the ring, and expanding into a thin triangular sheet interlace with the corresponding' fibres of the opposite side on the back j)art of the crest and symphysis pubis ; they receiA e the name of triangular fascia. The external abdominal ring gi\ es passage to the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female : they are both invested in their passage through it by a prolongation of the intercolumnar fil)res of the external obli<{ue muscle, the intercolumnar fascia, or spermatic fascia. Relations.—By its external surface with the superficial fascia, integument, cutaneous vessels and nerves, particularly the super- ficial epigastric and superficial circumflex iliac A'essels, and latissinius dorsi, by which it is overlapjied posteriorly. By its internal surface with the internal oblique, lower part of the eight inferior i-il>s and intercostal muscles, cremaster, sjjerinatic cord in the male, and romid ligament in the female. The upper boi'der of the external oblique is continuous with the pectoralis major. Nerve-supply.—Anterior branches of the lower intercostals. Dissection.—The external oblique is now to be removed by making an incision from the anterior siq^erior sj^ine of the ilium towards the umbilicus as fat as the aponeurosis can be sepai'feted from the subjacent muscle. From this latter point an incision is to