752 PANCREAS. colon, llie posterior surface is grooved for the splenic vein ai.d tunnelled l,y a complete canal for tlie superior mesenteric and por!!.! veins, and superior mesenteric artery ; it is also in relation witli tl,- tei mination of the inferior mesenteric vein, left crus of the diaphragm and left supra-renal hody. The upper border presents a deep groove' sometimes a canal, for the splenic artery anh vein, and i.s in rela- tion with the oljlupie portion of the duodenum, lobus Spigelii, aixl ca>liac axis ; and the lower border is separated from the t?ansvei<,- portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and ^■eil, On the posterior part of the head of the pancreas is a lobular fohl ot the gland which completes the canal of the superior mesenteric vessels, and is called the h,sser pavcreas. The tail lies on the left kidne}, and its extremity is iii contact with the spleen. Tlie pancreatic duct (duct of Wirsung) com- mences at the small ex- tremity of the organ Ijv the union of the ducts from the lobules; it is continued onwards from left to right, gradually increasing in size, to the lower part of the descend- ing duodenum, where it terminates on the ijapilla of mucous membrane, common to it and the common bile duct. The duct receives numerous branches M^iich open into it on all sides from the lobules of the gland, and at its termination is slightly dilated and passes obliquely between the muscular and mucous coat of the intestine to reach the j)apilla. The duct which receives the secretion from the lesser pancreas is called the ductus imncreaticus minor; it opens into the principal duct near the duodenum, and sometimes i^asses separately into that intestine. In structure the pancreas resents the ordinary composition of an acino-tubular gland, being made up of lobes, and these of reddish- yellow polyhedral lobules, which latter consist of smaller lobules, and the smallest lobules of the ramifications of minute ducts, ter- minating in tub alar aheoli. The alveoli are distinctly tubular, and sometimes are convoluted ; the cells lining them are columnar, and when the gland is at rest they completely fill the cavity and leave scarcely any lumen. They display an inner granular and an outer striated zoiie. In many parts tlie middle of the alveolus is occupied by spindle-shaped cells (centro-acinar cells). Intercellular passages Fio. 458.—Section of the pancreas nf a dug, sliowiii^f the inner trranular zone and outer clear, striated Kone. il. Terininatidii of a duct in the tubular alveoli, a.