74 VERTEBRAL COLUMN, strnctiive. Upon the extei'iov of tlie bones care processes and rougli surfaces for tlie attacliuient of muscles, and foramina for tlie ti-aiis- mission of vessels and nerves. The character of long Ijones is, there- fore, theii- general type of striu-ture and their divisibility inU) a central portion and extremities, and not so much theii- length ; foi- there are certain long bones, as the second phalanges of the toes, which are less than a quartei' of an inch in length, and which, in some instances, exceed in breadth their longitudinal axis. The long bones are, the clavicle, humerus, radius and ulna, femur, tibia and fibula, metacarpal bones, metatarsal, phalanges, and ribs. Flat bones are com2)Osed of two layers of dense bone with inter- mediate loose structure. They are adapted to enclose cavities ; have processes upon their surface for the attachment of muscles ; and are perforated l)y foramina for the passage of nutrient vessels to the cavities in their interior, and for the transmission of vessels and nerves. They articulate with long bones by means of smooth sur- faces plated with cartilage, and with each other, either l)y fib]-o- cartilaginons tissue, as at the symphysis pubis ; or by suture, as in the bones of the skull. The two condensed layers of the bones of the skull are named, tables ; and the intermediate open structure, diploe. The flat bones are, the occipital, parietal, frontal, nasal, lachrymal, vomer, sternum, scapulte, and innominate bones. Short bones ha^^^e an exterior shell of dense bone filled vrith spongy or cancellous suljstance ; of this sort are the bones of the carpus and tarsus, and the seasamoid bones, including the patella. The irregular bones include all that remain after the long, short, ^nd flat bones have been excluded. They are essentially irregular in their form, in some parts flat, in others short and thick ; and are constructed on the same general principle as other bones. The bones of this class are, the temporal, sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, inferior maxillary, palate, inferior turbinated, hyoid, ver- tebrae, sacrum, and coccyx. The skeleton is divisilile into : I. The vertebral column, or central axis. 2. The head and face, or superior development of the central axis. 3. The hyoid arch. 4. The shoulder girdle and ujiper ex- tremities. 5. The pelvic girdle and lower extremities. VERTEBRAL COLUMN. The vertebral column is the central axis which supports the head, thorax, and upper extremities. It consists of numerous sepa- rate bones called vertebroi, which, although possessing a limited degree of motion on each other, yet give to the whole column considerable flexibility. The vertebrae admit of a division into true and false. The true vertebrce are twenty-foui- in number, and are classed, according to the three regions of the trunk which they occu])y, into cervical, dorsal, and lumbar. The false or fixed vertebras consist of nine