13 CONNECTIVE TISSUE, a con- of glands, and in tlie interior of organs supporting tlieir proper tissues. Adipose Tissue, or Fat, may be described as areolar tissue the meshes of which are occupiecl by vesicles containing oil. It is chiefly found immediately beneath the skin, forming there tinuous layer over nearly the whole surface of the bo"dy, the panniculus adiposus; it also exists very plentifully in the mesentery and omenta of the abdomen, round the joints, on the surface of the heart, round the kidneys, and entering into the formation of the marrow of bones. It consists of vesicles which measure from to of an inch, filled with oil; they are aggregated together so as to form little masses or lobules, and are contained in the meshes of areolar tissue. A nucleiis generally exists at one side of the vesicle, but is commonly obscured by the oily contents ; it is the I'emai'ns of the protoplasm of the cell from Avhich the vesicle was formed. The vesicles are usually glolnilar in form, unless they have been compressed, when they l:)ecome hexagonal or polyhedral. After death the contents of the vesicles often crystallise, appearing as groups crystals, which are supposed to consist chiefly of margaric acid. Each lobule of fattv tissue has entei'- FiG. 18.—Areolar and adipose tissue, a, a. Fat vesicles. 6, b. Fibres of areolar tissue. of flne aciculai- mg it a small artery, and leaving it a small vein, these being connected to getlier by a very fine plexus of capil- lary vessels. No adipose tissue is found, in health, in the subcutaneous tissue of the eyelids or penis, nor in the lungs (except near their roots), nor in the cavity of the cranium. Fibrous Tissue.—This tissue forms the periosteum of bones, ligaments to bind the bones together, tendons for the attachment of muscles, strong pro- tecting coats for certain organs, and fasciae to separate the miiscles from each other. Thus two forms of it are described—the fascicular, where the fibres are gathered up into bundles so as to foi'm a i-ounded or flattened band, and membranous, where they are spread out so a.s to form a thin sheet. It is composed of fine filaments gathered into bundles, and having all the characters and properties of the white fibres described as forming the gi-eater part of areolar tissue. These are either arranged parallel to each other, as in the formation of tendons and ligaments, or they spread out, cross, and get inter- FiG. ir —Fat vesicles from omen- tum, .showing nuclei at the margins of the vesicles.