RELATIONS OF ANTERIOE TIBIAL. 443 anterior tibial region. It tlien runs down the anterior aspect of the leg to the ankle-joint, where it becomes the clorsalis pedis. Relations.—In its course it rests on the interosseous membrane (to which it is connected by a little tendinous arch which is thrown across it), the lower part of the tibia, and the anterior ligament of the joint. In its upper third it is situated between the tilnalis anticus and extensor longus digitoriim, lower down between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius hallucis ; and just before it reaches the ankle it is crossed by the tendon of the extensor propnu.s haUucis, and becomes placed between that tendon and the tendons of the extensor longus digitorum. Its immediate relations are the venee comites and anterior tibial nerve ; the latter lies at first to its outer side, at about the middle of the leg it is placed superficially to the artery, and at the ankle is again at its outer side. Plan of the Relations of the Anterior Tibial Artery, Front. Integument, superficial and deep fascia, Tibialis anticus, Extensoi- longus digitorum, Extensor proprius hallucis, Anterior tibial nerve. Inner Side. Tibialis anticus, Tendon of extensor prius hallucis. pro- Anterior Tibial Artery. Outer Side. Anterior tibial nerve, Extensor longus digitorum, Extensor proprius hallucis, Tendons of extensor lon- gus digitorum. Behind. Interosseous membrane. Tibia (lower fourth), Ankle-joint. Branches.—Tlie branches of the anterior tibial artery are the— External malleolar. Reciu'rent, Muscular, Intei'nal malleolar. The recurrent branch (anterior tibial recurrent) passes upwards beneatli the origin of the tibalis anticus muscle to the front of the knee-joint, upon which it is distributed, anastomosing with the articular In-anches of the popliteal artery. The muscular branches are numerous ; they supply the muscles of the anterior tibial region. Some of them pass through the interos- seous membrane to the muscles of the back of the leg and anastomose As-ith branches of the posterior tibial and peroneal. The malleolar arteries are distributed to the ankle-joint; tlie external, passing beneatli the tendons of the ex-tensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, inosculates Avith the anterior peroneal artery and dorsalis pedis ; the internal, beneath the tendons of the extensor