TEMPORAL ARTERY. 389 Tliis arteiy has behind it, the vertebral cohimn, rectus anticus maior muscle, and superior laryngeal nerve ; m front, the stylo- pharyngeus muscle ; on the inner side, the pharynx ; on the outer side, the internal carotid artery and superior cervical ganglion ot the sympathetic. Its branches are :— Pharyngeal, Prevertebral, Meningeal. The pharyngeal branches are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx, extending upwards to the soft palate, tonsils, and Eustachian tube, and downwards nearly to the commencement of the oesophagus. The prevertebral branch pierces the prevertebral fascia and is distributed to the rectus anticus muscles, superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and ninth, tenth, and eleventh pairs of nerves. It anastomoses with the ascending cervical artery. The inferior meningeal branches pass through the jugular fora- men or anterior condylar foramen, and often through the fibrous tissue closing the middle lacerated foramen ; they end in the dura mater. The PAROTIDEAN ARTERIES are four or five large branches which are given off from the external carotid whilst in the parotid gland. They are distributed to the structure of the gland, their terminal branches reaching the integument of the side of the face, and masseter muscle. The TEMPORAL ARTERY is one of the two terminal branches of the external carotid. It ascends over the root of the zygoma ; and at about an inch and a half above the zygomatic arch, divides into an anterior and posterior temporal branch. The anterior temporal is distributed over the front of the temple and arch of the skull, and anastomoses with the opposite anterioi' temporal and with the supraorbital and frontal artery. The posterior temporal curves upwards and backwards, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side, with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries. The trunk of the temporal artery is covered by the parotid gland and attraliens auriculam muscle, and rests on tlie temporal fascia. The branches of the temporal artery are—some small offsets to the parotid gland and articulation of the lower jaw, and the fol- lowing :— Anterior auricular. Transverse facial. Middle temporal. The anterior auricular branches, two in number, are distributed to the anterior portion of the pinna. The transverse facial arises from the temporal immediately below the zygoma, and runs transversely across the face, resting on the masseter muscle, and lying parallel with and a little above Stenson's duct. It anastomoses with tlie facial and infraorbital arteries.