282 INTERCOSTAL MUSCLES. intercostal membrane) which is continued onwards to the sternum. Their fibres are directed oljliquely downwards and forwards, pur- suing the same line with those of the external olilique muscle of the abdomen. Tliey are thicker than the internal intercostals, and more tendinous in stiaicture. The INTERNAL INTERCOSTALS, also eleven on each side, com- mence anteriorly at the sternum, and extend backwards as far a.s the angle of the rihs, whence they are prolonged to the vertebral column by a thin aponeurosis (posterior intercostal membrane). Their fibres are directed obliquely downwards and backwards, correspond- ing with those of the internal oblique muscle of the abdomen, and crossing those of the external intercostals. In structiire the intercostal muscles consist of an admixture of muscular and tendinous fibres. They arise from the two lips of the lower border of the rib, the external from the outer liji, the internal from the inner ; and are inserted into the upper border of the rib > lielow, encroaching somewhat on its surfaces. Nerve-supply.—The intercostal nerves. The SUBCOSTALS are nine or ten small muscles situated within the thorax at its posterior part, and lying upon the ribs. They increase in size from above downwards, and the direction of their fibres corresponds with that of the internal intercostals. Each muscle arises from the front of a rib, and is inserted into the front of the rib but one below. They are most constant on the lower ribs. Relations,—The external intercostals, by their external surface with the muscles which immediately invest the chest, viz., pectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, serratus posticus sujierior and inferior, scalenus posticus, sacro-lumbalis and longissimus dorsi Avith their continuations, cervicalis ascendens and transversalis cervicis, levatores costarum, and obliquus externus abdominis. By their in- ternal surface with the internal intercostals, intercostal vessels and nerves, and posteriorly witli the pleura, a thin layer of fascia being interposed. The internal intercostals, by their external surface with the external intercostals, and intercostal vessels and nerves ; by their internal surface with the costal pleura, triangularis sterni, subcostals, and diaphragm. The TRIANGULARIS STERNI, situated upon the inner wall of the front of the chest, arises by a thin aponeurosis from the side of the sternum, ensiform cartilage, and sternal extremities of the costal cartilages from the third to the sixth or seventh ; it is inserted by fieshy digitations into the second, third, fourth, and fifth costal cartilages and corresponding ril)S. Relations.--By its external surface with the sternum, ensiforni cartilage, costal cartilages, internal intercostal muscles, and internal mammary vessels. By its internal surface with the costal ])leiira, areolar tissue of the anterior mediastinum, and diajihragm. The lower fibres of the triangularis sterni are continuous with those the transversalis abdominis. Nerve-supply.—The intercostal nerves.