CAVITY OF THE TYMPANUM. 641 ' The tensor tympani arises from tlie spinous process of the sphenoid, the petrous portion of the temporal bone and the Eus- tachian tube, and passes forwards in a distinct canal, separated from the tube by the processus cochleariformis. It bends nearly at a right angle over the end of that process, and passes, to be inserted into the inner part of the handle of tlie malleus near its base. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. The stapedius arises from the interior of the j)yramid and descending part of the aquseductus Fallopii, it becomes tendinous, and escapes from the summit of the pyramid to be inserted into the neck of the stapes, posteriorly. It is supplied by the tympanic branch of the facial nerve. Actions.—The action of the tensor muscle is sufficiently indicated by its name, but that of the stapedius is more difficult to understand. It seems, however, evident that by its contraction it will tend to pull the foot of the stapes out of the fenestra ovalis, and thus prevent ■too forcible excitation of the delicate internal ear. Foramina.—The openings in the tympanum are nine in number, five large and foior small; they are— Large Openings. Small Openings. Meatus auditorius, Entrance of chorda tyjnpaui, Fenestra ovalis, Exit of chorda tympani, Fenestra rotunda. For the tensor tym];)ani, Mastoid cells, For the stapedius. Eustachian tube. The opening of the meatus auditorius has been already de- scribed. The fenestra ovalis (fenestra vestibuli) is a reniform opening, situated at the bottom of a small oval fossa in the upper part of the inner ^vtlll of the tympanum, directly opposite the meatus. The long diameter of the fenestra is horizontal, and its convex border directed upwards. It is the opening of communication between the tympanum and vestibule, and is closed by the foot of the stapes and by the lining membrane of both cavities. The fenestra rotunda (fenestra cochleas) is somewhat triangular in form, and situated in the inner wall of the tympanum, below and rather posteriorly to the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a bony elevation, called the promontory; it lies at the bottom of a funnel-shaped depression, and serves to establish a communica- tion between the tympanum and cochlea. In the fresh subject it is closed by a proper membrane (m. tympani secundaria) as well as by the lining of both cavities. The mastoid cells are the cavities contained in the interior of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. In the majority of casep, the lower and posterior cells are diploetic, contain marrow, and do not communicate witli the cavity of the tym])anuin ; and the upper ones are xmeumat ic, and in communication witli tlie tympanic cavity.