STRUCTURE OF CAPILLARIES. 48 uniform .size in any particular organ, Fro. 62.—Transition of a minute artery into capillary vessels—from the brain, i. Minute artery. 2. Transitional capillary. 3. Coarse capillary with thick coat, represented by a double contour line. 4. Fine capillai'y, with single contour. The nuclei are seen widely scattered in 4 and 3; more closely congre- gated in 2; and still more so in i. fi. The transverse elongated nuclei of muscular cells; the muscular coat of the artery. directly into .small veins, so that the hlood does not enter the ca])il- lai'y .system. Structure of Capillaries.—Tlie capillaries are tlie smallest and sinqjlest of the blood-ve.ssels, iheii' wall being foi'ined by a single layer of flattened endotlielial cells, the edges of which can be brought into view by j)encil]ing the surface with nitrate of silver. The cells are irregular in shape, being often pointed at their extremities and sinuous at their edges. They are united togethei- by an albuminous cementing substance, and are connected e.xternally with the pro- cesses of the connective-tissue corpuscles of the neighbouring ti.ssue.s (Klein). During intlammatifm, the connecting cement of the cells often gives way so as to leave pores or stomata, through which the white corpuscles of the blood (and occasionally the red ones) pass. In certain parts the capillai'ies have, in addition to their endothelial lining, an outer coat, formed by a net^'ork of branched connective- tissue cells. Although capillaries are, as stated al)ove, remarkable for their they differ in this respect in different localities, l)eing smalle.st in the brain and lung, and largest in the mari'ow of bones ; the)' are small also in muscle and large in skin and mucous membrane. They ditter greatly in the size and arrange- ment of the meshes which they form, and consequently in the amount of blood Avhich they supply to the tis- sue.s, the network l)eing very close in the lungs and choroid coat of the. eye, in most mucous membranes and in glands, and very wide in ligaments, tendons, and similar structures. In muscle, nerve, and tendon the meshes of ihe capillary plexus are long and narrow ; in the lungs, adipose ti.ssue, and secreting glands they are rounded or polygonal ; while in the skin and mucous mem-, branes the capillaries ai-e drawn out into long loops.