PUDIC NERVE. 591 below the pyriformis muscle, and enters the deep aspect of the gluteus maximus, to which it is distributed. The PUDIC NERVE arises from the lowest part of the sacral plexus and passes out of the pehds through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle. It crosses the spine of_ the ischium, and re-entering the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, accompanies the internal pudic artery through Alcock's canal, lying iuferiorly to the artery and enclosed in the same sheath. Near its origin it gives off the inferior hmmorrhoidal nerve, and in the outer wall of the ischio-rectal fossa divides into a superior and inferior branch. The inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve, often a branch of the sacral plexus, crosses the ischio-rectal fossa with the vessels of the same name, and descends to the termination of the rectum to be distributed to the sphincter ani and integument. The dorsalis penis nerve, the superior division of the internal pudic, ascends along the posterior surface of the ramus of the ischium, pierces the triangular ligament, and accompanies the arteria dorsalis penis to the glans, to which it is distributed. At the root of the penis the nerve gives off a cutaneous branch which runs along the side of the organ, gives filaments to the corpus cavernosum, and with its fellow of the opposite side sujoplies the integument of the iipper two-thirds of the penis. The perineal nerve or inferior terminal branch, larger than the preceding, pursues the course of the superficial perineal artery in the perineum and divides into cutaneous and muscular branches. The cutaneous branches (superficial perineal), two in number, fosterior and anterior, enter the ischio-rectal fossa and pass forward with the superficial perineal artery to be distributed to the integu- ment of the perineum, scrotum, and under part of the joenis. The posterior superficial perineal nerve sends a few filaments to the in- tegument of the anus and sphincter ani; while the anterior gives oft' one or two twigs to the levator ani. Tlie muscular branches proceed from a single trunk, which passes inwards behind tlie transversus perinei muscle; they are distributed to the transversus perinei, accelerator urinse, and erector ])enis. The perineal nerve also sends two or three filaments to the corpus spongiosum. In the female the pudic nerve is distributed to the parts analo- gous to those of the male. The superior branch supplies the clitoris ; the inferior the vulva and perineum. Tlie LESSER ISCHIATIC NERVE arises from the second and third sacral nerves ; it passes out of the pelvis tlirough the great sacro- ischiatic foramen below the pyriformis muscle, and continues its course downwards through the thigh to the lower part of the popli- teal region, where it pierces the fascia and becomes subcutaneous. It then accompanies the external saphena vein to the lower part of the leg, and communicates with the external saphenous nerve. The branches of the lesser iscliiatic nerve are all cutaneous ; they d