NERVE TERMINATIONS. soft substance in a small rounded tubercle, and not unfrequently is bifid or even The end bulbs of Krause have been ascertained to exist in the sclerotic conjunctiva, the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, the soft palate and tongue, the lips, and in the skm of the glans penis and glans clitoi-idis. They are usually spheroidal or oval m shape, and measure aljout of an inch in diameter. They con- j^ist of a capsule of connective tissue containing a which is transparent and apparently granular, and has embedded in it numerous oval nuclei. A medul- lated nerve fibre enters its under surface, and as it passes in, generally loses its medullary sheath ; the axis cylinder may be traced into the cen- tral matrix, where it terininates by diAading into two or more In'anches. They thus closely resemble the Pa- cinian corpuscles. The end bulbs which pass to the genital organs differ in some respects from those just described, and have been named (jenital nerve corpuscles; they are characterised by the existence of numerous constrictions which give them a mulberry-like appearance. Motor Nerve Endings. — Of these there are two varieties; namely, those passing to striated muscle, and those distributed to the non-striated. The former have received the name of motoricU end plates. The nerves passing to a voluntary muscle retain their medullary sheath, and primi- tive sheath, till tliey reach the sar- colemma, when the former ceases, and the latter becomes continuous with the sarcolemma. The axis cylinder pierces the sarcolemma and expands l)eneath it, so as to pro- diice a prominence {nerve eminence)., often divided into lobes, and containing many clear oval nuclei. In unstriped oi- involuntary muscle the nerve fibres are arranged in very fine plexuses over the surface of the muscle cells, and some histologists state that the terminal filaments can be traced into the nucleus or nucleolus of the cell. SYMPATHETIC NERVE.—The sympathetic or ganglionic nerve, or system of organic ncrA^es, has received its various designations from its numberless communications and anastomoses, from its coui- Via. 56.—End bulbs, i. From the cou- juiictiva of a calf. 2. From that of a human being, a. Bulb. c. Nerve fibre ending in an axis cylinder (6).