LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. 183 separated by the veins of the body of each vertebra ; it thus comes to present a festooned or dentate margin. It is composed, like the anterior ligament, of shorter and longer fibres, arranged in a similar manner. It is broader above than below, the reverse of the anterior common ligament, and is thicker in the dorsal than in the cervical or lumbar region. At its upper end it is continuous with the posterior occipito-axial ligament. The intervertebral substance is a lenticular disc of fibro-carti- lage, interposed between the bodies of the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum, and retaining them firmly in connection with each other. The discs vary in thickness in different parts of the column and at different points of the same disc, being thickest in the lumbar region, deeper in front than behind in the cervical and luml)ar regions, and contribute to the Fig. i49.-Diagram of an inter- . , • ° c J1 ^ 1 r vertebral disc divided vei-tically. formation of the natural curves of a, the pulpy centre; at b, the the vertebral Coli;mn. The aggregate fibrous ring; at e, the cartilagin- thirlrnpss nf t,hp intervprtebral sub- covering of the body of the tnicivness 01 tne interverteuiai suo vertebra; rf, the periosteum. stance has been estimated at one- fourth that of the entire vertebral column, exclusive of the sacrum and coccyx. Wlien the intervertebral substance is bisected either horizontally or vertically, it is seen to be composed of a series of layers of fil)ro- cartilage mixed Avith fibrous tissue. The central part of each inter- vertebral disc is much softer than the rest; it has the appearance of pulp, and is so elastic as to rise above the level of the section as soon as its division is completed. Examined from the exterior, the layers are found to consist of fibres passing obliquely between the two vertebras, in one layer passing from left to right, in the next from right to left, alternating in each successive layer. Examined micro- scopically, the central pulp is found to be composed of fine fibrous tissue su])porting cells some of which resemble those of cartilage ; it is generally regarded as a persistent part of the chorda dorsalis. The central pulp and several layers of fibres surrounding it, are separated from the bone of the vertebral bodies by a thin layer of cartilage. Arches.—The ligamenta subflava are two thin planes of yellow fibrous tissue, situated between the arches of the vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum.. From the imbricated position of the laminae, they are attached to the posterior surface of the vertebra below, and the anterior surface of the arch of the vertebra above, being separated from each other in the cervical region at the middle line by a slight interspace filled with areolar tissue. In the dorsal and lumbar regions they are continued for a little way on to the roots of the spinoiTS processes, where they unite with the interspinous ligaments and with each other. They counteract, by their elasticity, the efforts