21 BONE. Fig. 32.—Section of the body of a vertebra — perpendicular and transverse bars. i. Opening for vena basis vertebrfe. ethmoid and spongy bones of the face, the tliin jjartitions of which are formed of a single plate of bone. This isnourished from the outside, no vessels entering into its substance. Bone exists in the form of plates or lamellte, which can be seen by ex- amining a thin slice of bone after it lias been softened by steeping in diluted hydrochloric acid. The fibrous character of the lamellDe can be demonstrated by tearing strips from softened bones, by which it will be seen that the direction of the plates is in that of the length of a bone. When thus torn asunder, the lamellae are found to be connected by fine perforating fibres, which pass vertically through several layers, and thus fasten them together ; they are believed to be comjoosed of white fibrous tissue. Periosteum.—This is a fibrous membrane which covers the ex- terior of all bones, except where they are encrusted with cartilage. It is a tough unyielding tissue, which adds to the strength and elas- ticity of the bones, and adhering very firmly, forms the means of attachment of the muscles and tendons. Its principal use is to attbrtl a support and l:)ed to the vessels entering the bone, and it may there- fore ha called the nourishing membrane to the exterior of the l)one. It consists of two layers. The outer, composed of fibrous tissue, supports the blood-vessels, and gives oft" filamentous threads which accompany the branches of the vessels into the Haversian canals ; on its inner aspect, this layer contains a considerable admixture of elastic fibres. The inner layer consists of a number of jDrotoplasmic cells (osteoblasts) which in the young bone aj)pear as granular cor- puscles, but in the old bone are found only as a flattened epithelial layer, separated from the rest of the periosteum by a narrow cleft or lymph space. Minute Structure of Bone.—A thin layer of the exterior of a bone derives its nourish- ment from the periosteum, and a similar layer of the inner sui'face is nourished by tlie vessels of the marrow, but in most bones there is a consideral)le amount of dense tissue, wliich is too far removed from either to draw its support therefrom, Tliis intervening portion is .supplied by 1)1ood-vessels which enter little channels pi'o- vided for the purpose. These Haversian canals, as they are called, are little tubes running for the most part in the direction of tlie length of a hone, Imt so obliquely as to form frequent comnumications with each other-, and tliose near the external and internal surfaces with these Fig. 33.—Plan of a section of a long bone. i. Perios- teum. 2. Periosteal layer of bone. 3. Inner surface of bone. 4. Peri-niednllary layer of bone. 5. Dense tissue beyond the reach of the periosteal and me- dullary vessels constitut- ing the Haversian .system. 6. MeduUaj-y cavity.