203 ELBOW-JOINT. The posterior ligament is a broad and loose layer passing trans- versely across the olecranon fossa, and from the sides of the fossa to the base of the olecranon ; it is connected at each side with the lateral ligaments. It is covered in by the tendon of the triceps. The internal lateral ligament is a thick triangular layer, attached above, by its apex, to the internal condyle of the humerus ; and below, by its expanded border, to the margin of the greater sigmoid cavity of the ulna, extending from the coronoid process to the olecranon. At its insertion it is intermingled with some trans- verse fibres; and posteriorly is in relation with the ulnar nerve. The external lateral ligament is a strong and narrow band which descends from the ex- ternal condyle of the humerus, to be inserted into the orbicular ligament and the ridge on the ulna with which the posterior part of the latter ligament is connected. The ligament is closely united with the tendon of origin of the supinator brevis muscle. The four Fig. 166.—Lig.aments of the elbow-joint, inner side. i. An- terior ligament. 2. Internal lateral liga- ment. 3. Orbicular ligament. 4. Ob- lique ligament. 5. Interosseous mem- brane. 6. Internal cpicondyle of the humerus, which con- ceals tlie posterior ligament. pre- ceding ligaments are sometimes described as one under the name of capsular liga- ment. The synovial membrane is ex- tensive, and is re- flected from the margins of the cartilaginous sur- faces of the bones upon the inner ligaments, surface of the It forms an articulating sac between the head of the radius and the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna. The muscles immediately sur- rounding and in contact with the elbow-joint are—w front, brachialis anticus ; inner side, pronator radii teres, flexor sublimis digitorum, and flexor carpi ulnaris ; externally, extensor carpi radialis brevior, extensor communis digitorum, ex- Fin. 167.—Exter- nal view of the elbow-joint, i. Humerus. 2. Ulna. 3. Radius. 4. External lat- eral ligament inserted infe- riorly into (5) the orbicular ligament. 6. Posterior ex- tremity of the orbicular liga- ment, spread- ing out at its insertion into the ulna. 7. Anterior liga- ment, scarcely apparent in this view of the ar- ticulation. 8. Posterior liga- ment, thrown into folds by the extension of the joint.