231 ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM. Actions.—The occipital portion acting alone draws the scalp backwards. The frontal portion, if it has its fixed point above, draws the eyebrows upwards and produces transverse wrinkles in the forehead, as in expressing surprise, wonder, attention, or terror ; if its fixed point be below it draws forward the scalp. By the alternate action of the two portions the scalp is drawn to and fro on the underlying pericranium. 2. Orbital Group.— Orbicularis palpebrarum, Corrugator supercilii, Tensor tarsi. Dissection.—Great care is requisite in the dissection of the first of these muscles, from the total absence of sulocutaneous fat over the eyelids, and the extreme delicacy of the musciilar fibres which cover them. A hook should be introduced into the paljiebral fissure at the outer canthus, and one of the other hooks of the set fastened to the table, so as to put the eyelids slightly on the stretch ; an incision should be made along the margin of each lid, and the cut already made from the scalj) to the root of the nose should be carried onwards to the tip of that organ. The skin is now to be raised from the margin of the lids as a delicate layer not thicker than ordinary tissue-paper. In order completely to expose the orbicularis it will be necessary to make an additional incision, after the skin has been raised from the lids, from the outer canthus of the eye on to the lateral aspect of the head. ' The ORBICULARIS PALPEBRARUM is a spliincter muscle, sur- rounding the orbit and eyelids, and consists of two jiortions, external and internal. The external or orbital portion arises from a short tendon, tendo oculi, situated at the inner angle of the eye, and from the internal angular process of the frontal lione ; it encircles the orliit, and is inserted into the nasal process of the superior maxillary and lower border of the tendo oculi, some of its fibres being continuous with the upper segment. This poi'tion of the muscle becomes intimately l)lended with the occipito-frontalis and corrugator supercilii; it also sends off slips which communicate with the muscles of tlie upper lip. The internal or pal2)ehral jjortion forms a curved plane of fibres on the eyelids, thinner and paler than the orl)ital portion ; externally these fibres are attached to the external palpebral ligament and border of the orbit, some being continuous witli the orbital portion ; internally they are attached to the l)orders of the lacus lachrymalis and tendo oculi. The fibres of the palpebral i)ortion nearest the edges of the lids are thicker than the lest, and are termed ciliary. A few fibres placed Mdthin the line of the eyelashes and separated hj them from the rest of the orbicularis, have been described as a distinct muscle under the name of ciliary/ muscle of Riolan. The tendo oculi (internal tarsal liqament), about two lines in length and one in })readth, is attached by one end to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, close to the edge of the