244 MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. duct, transverse facial artery, pes anserinus, and integument. By its internal surface with the temporal muscle, buccinator, from which it is separated by a mass of fat, and I'amus of the lower jaw. By its posterior border witli the parotid gland ; by tlie anterior border with the facial artery and vein. Nerve-supply.—Masseteric branch of the inferior maxillary of the fifth cereljral nerve. Fascia.—The strong aponeurotic layer wliich covers the temporal muscle is called the temporal fascia or aponeurosis ; it is attached above to the posterioi- boi'dei' of tlie malar bone aiul the upper temporal crest on the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones. Below it separates into two layers, between which there is a small (piantity of fat, a small nerve derived from the orl)ital branch of the sujjerior maxil- lary nerve, and the orbital Ijranch of the temporal artery. Of these two layers one is attached to tlie outer, and the other to the inner surface of the zygoma. Dissection.—Make an incision along the upjier border of the zygoma, foi' the purpose of separating the temporal fascia from its attachment. Then saw through the zygomatic process of the malar l)one, and through the root of the zygoma near the meatus auditorius. Draw down the zygoma, and with it the origin of the masseter, and dissect the latter muscle away from the ramus and angle of the inferior maxilla. Now remove the temporal fascia from the resi of its attachment, and the whole of the temporal muscle will bo brought into view. The TEMPORAL is a broad and radiating muscle, occiijiying a considerable extent of the side of the head, and filling the temporal fossa. It arises by tendinous filjres froui the wliole length of the inferior temporal crest, and by muscular fibres from the temporal fascia and entire surface of the temporal fossa, excejDting the anterior or malar wall. Its fibres converge to a strong and narrow tendon, which is inserted into the apex, internal surface, and anterior border of the coronoid process of the lower jaw, as far down as the junction of the body and ramus. Relations.—By its external surface with the temporal fascia (which separates it from the attoUens and attraliens auriculam muscles, and temporal vessels and nerves) and with the zygoma and masseter. By its internal sitrface with the bones forming the temporal fossa, the external pterygoid muscle, part of the Iniccinator, and the internal maxillary artery with its deep temporal branches. Nerve-supply.—Temporal branches of the inferior maxillary of the fifth cerebral nerve. Dissection,—Saw through the ramus of the lower jaw a little above the level of the crowns of the lower molar teeth, then divide the neck of the condyle with saw and bone-forceps. Now turn up the coronoid process and portion of ramus thus detached, together with the teuiporal muscle (which may be dissected from the fossa), and a view of the entire extent of the buccinator and extei'nal pleiy- "oid muscles will be oljtained. I