TEMPORAL BONE. 96 The Mastoid portion (fiaa-Tos etSof, nipple-like) forms the posterior part of the bone ; it is thick and hollowed between its tables into nuniei'ous cavities. Those situated near the apex and back part of the l^one are small and generally filled with marrow ; the upper and anterior cavities, much larger in size, contain air, and are m com- munication with the tympanic cavity. One of the latter, largei' and more constant than the rest, is named the ^mastoid antrum. Ou its external surface the mastoid portion is rough for the attachment of muscles, and near the posterior border of the bone is an irregului' opening, sometimes large, and sometimes so small as to be almost indistinguishable, called the mastoid foramen, which transmits ii vein to the lateral sinus, and a small artery to the dura mater. The; inferior part of the mastoid portion is round and expanded, the mastoid process. Directly to the inner side of, and partly concealed by it, is a deep groove, the digastric fossa, for the digastric muscle, and a little more internally the occipital groove, which lodges the occipital artery, a branch of the external carotid. On its internal surface the mastoid portion presents a broad and shallow groove (fossa sigmoideu) for the lateral sinus, and terminating in this groove the internal opening of the mastoid foramen. The superior border of the mastoid Fio. loi.—Section of the temporal bone, right side, showing the curved direction of the external audi- tory meatus. I. Edge of the auditory process. 2. Groove into whicli the membrana tympani i> inserted. The obliquity of the line from 2 to 3 iudieates the oblique terniinatiou of the meatus, and the consequent oblique direci ion of the mem- brani tympani. 4, 4. Cavity of tlie tympanum. 5. Opening of the liustachiau tube. 6. Part of the aquseductus Fallopii. 7. Part of carotid canal. portion is dentated, and articidates with the posterior inferior angk^ of the parietal bone ; its posterior border is thick, and less serrated, and articulates with the inferior border of the occipital bone. The external auditory meatus is a slightly curved canal, about half an inch in length, and rather longer on its floor than on its roof ; it is narrower in the middle than at either end, and is broadest in its horizontal diameter, and terminates at the outer wall of t\u' tympanum by an abru]3t oval border. Within the margin of this border is a groove for the insertion of the membrani tympani. The Petrous portion of the temporal bone is named from its extreme hardness and density (neTpos, a rock). It is a three-sided pyramid, projecting horizontally forwards into the base of the skull, the base being partly applied against the internal surface of the squamous and mastoid portions, and partly exposed as the opening of the ear ; its apex is received into the triangular interval between the spinous process of the sphenoid and the basilar jjrocess of the occipital bone. For convenience of description it is divisible into base, apex, three surfaces, anterior, ])osterior, and 1)asilar; an( three borders, superior, anterior, and posterior. The base is pierced by the external auditory meatus, sui-rounded by a rough process