METACARPUS. Attachment of Muscles—Part of the flexor brevis pollicis. UNCIFORM.—This is a triangular-shaped bone, remarkable for a long and curved process, which projects from its palmar aspect. The palmar surface is free, and is distinguished by the hooked process just mentioned ; the dorsal surface is broad and rough. Its distal extremity presents a double articular surface for the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones ; its proximal extremity is convex for articulation with the semilunar ; externally it has two facets, with an intervening rouo-h space, these being for articulation with the os magnum ; and intnnalli/ it has an oblong smooth facet for the cuneiform, and below this a rough edge for attachment of ligaments. Eecognition.—If the bone be held with the uncinate process upwards, and the double facet forwards, the two small articular surfaces, with the intervening rough portion, will point to the ap- propriate hand. Articulation.—With five bones : semilunar, os magnum, cunei- form, and fourth and fifth metacarpals. Attachment of Muscles.—To two : flexor ossis metacarpi minimi digiti and flexor brevis minimi digiti; and to the anterior annular ligament. Development of the Carpus.—The bones of the carpus are each developed by a single centre ; they are cartilaginous at birth. Ossi- fication commences towards the end of the first year in the os magnum and unciform ; at the end of the third year, in the cunei- form ; during the fifth year, in the trapezium and semilunar ; during the sixth, in the scaphoid ; eighth, in the trapezoid ; and twelfth, in the pisiform. The latter bone is the last in the skeleton to ossify ; it is, in reality, a sesamoid bone of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris. The number of articulations which each bone of the carpus main- tains with surrounding bones may be expressed in figures, which will facilitate the student's recollection; the cipher for the first row is 5531, and for the second 4475. METACARPUS. The bones of the metacarpus are five in number. They are long bones, divisible into a head, shaft, and base. The head is rounded at the distal extremity, forming an articular surface which extends farther on the front than on the back of the bone; each lateral aspect presents a small tubercle Avith a pit below it for the attachment of the lateral ligaments of the meta- carpo-phalangeal joint. The shaft is prismoid ; its posterior surface, upon which the extensor tendon lies, is flat; its anterior surface presents a ridge dividing two sloping surfaces for the attachment of the interossei muscles. The base is irregularly quadrilateral, and rough for the insertion of tendons and ligaments ; it presents three articular surfaces : one at each side for adjoining metacarpal bones, and one at the extremity for the carpus.