SPHENOID BONE. 100 The styloid process is commonly formed by two osseous deposits, one (the tijmpano-hyal) at the base, before birth ; the other (dijlo-hyal) at the tip, after birth ; the latter often remains separate during the whole of life. The squamo-zygomatic portion is developed from membrane, the other j)ortions from cartilage. At the time of birth the temporal iDone consists of three pieces ; the mastoid antrum is present, but the mastoid cells do not commence to be formed till the ninth year. From the above description it will be seen that the total number of centres of ossification is eight. Articulations.—With five bones : occipital, parietal, sphenoid, inferior maxillary, and malar. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen: by squamous portion, to the temporal; by the zygoma, to the masseter ; l)y the mastoid portion, to the occipito-frontalis, splenius capitis, sterno-mastoid, trachelo-mastoid, digastricus, and retrahens auriculam ; by the styloid process, to the stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-hyoid, stylo-glossus, and two ligaments, stylo-hyoid and stylo-maxillary; and by the petrozis portion, to the levator palati, tensor tympani, and stapedius. SPHENOID BONE. The sphenoid (acjiriv, a wedge) is an irregular bone, situated at the base of the skull, wedged between the other bones of the cranium, and entering into the formation of the cranium, orbits, and nasal fossae. It bears some resemblance, in form, to a bat with its wings extended, and is divisible into body, wings, and processes. The body forms the central mass of the bone, from which the wings and processes are projected. From the upper and anterior part of the body extend, one to each side, two small triangular plates, the lesser wings; from each side, and expanding laterally, are the greater wings; proceeding backwards from the base of the greater Wings, the spinous processes, and downwards, the pterygoid processes. The body presents for examination a superior or cerebral surface, an antero-inferior surface, and a posterior surface. Superior Surface.—At the anterior extremity of this surface is a small projecting plate, the ethmoidal spine, which articulates with the cribriform plate of the ethmoid ; and spreading out on each side the lesser loings. Behind the ethmoidal spine in the middle line is a shallow transverse groove which lodges the optic commissure; behind this is a rounded elevation, the olivary process; and on each side of the posterior margin of that process a tubercle, the middle chnmd 2?rocess (KXivrj, a bed). Passing outwards and forwards from the groove just mentioned are the optic foramina, which transmit the optic nerves and ophthalmic arteries. Behind the optic foramina are two sharp tuljercles, the anterior clinoid processes, which are the inner terminations of the lesser wings. Beneath these processes, on the sides of the olivary process, are two depressions for the last turn ot the internal carotid arteries ; they are often converted into foramina