320 SUBSCAPULARIS. Relations.—iiy its anperficial surface with llie ])ectorali,s major and iiiiiiov, sub.sca})ulai'is, ]atissiiiiu.s doi'si, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the rilw and intercostal muscles, to M'liich it is connected hy loose areolar tissue. Nerve-supply.—Posterior thoracic nerve, from tlie fifth and sixth cervical. Actions.—The serratns magnus is the great muscle of forced inspii'atiun, raising the ribs when the shoulders are fixed, and tlierel>y increasing the cavity of the chest. By drawing the scapula for- M'avdn it allows of the further outstretching of the arm after it has Ijeen raised, as in the action called extension in fencing. Along with the trapezius it rotates the scapula so as to i^roject its inferior angle, and thus assists in raising the arm above the level of the shoulder. It is also of service in all movements of pushing. Anterior Scapular Region. Subscapularis. The SUBSCAPULARIS arises from the whole of the ventral sui-face of tlie scapula excepting the sujjerior and inferior angle and pos- terior border, and terminates by a broad and thick tendon, which is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and by muscular fibres into the surface of bone immediately below that process. In structure the subscapularis is composed of eight or ten fasciculi, four or five of which arise from one side of as many aponeurotic processes attaclied to the ridges of the venter of the scapula ; and four or five proceed from the other side of the aponeurotic processes and from the surface of bone intervening between them. Its tendon forms part of the capsule of the shoulder-joint, glides over a large bursa which separates it from the base of the coracoid process, and is lined l)y a prolongation of the synovial membrane of the articulation. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the serratus magnus, coraco-brachialis, and axillary vessels and nerves. By its posterior surface with the scapula and shoulder-joint. Nerve - supply.—The short and middle subscapular nerves, branches from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus. Action.—It rotates the head of the humerus in^-ards, and is a ]jowerful defence to the joint. "When the arm is raised, it draws the humerus downwards. Posterior Scapular Region. Supra-spinatus, Teres minor, Infra-sjiinatus, Teres major. The SUPRA-SPINATUS muscle (supra, al)ove ; sjnna, the .spine) arises from the sujn'a-spinous fossa, sjiine of the scapula, and pro]ier im esliuf fascia ; and is inserted into the ui)permost depression on