SYNOVIAL MEMBKANES. 57 t-ndotlielial cells ^vitli sinuous edges and clear oval nuclei, each con- taining one or more nucleoli. Openings exist in many of the serous membranes, M'hich, as stated above, communicate with the lymphatic capillaries ; they are called stomata, are commonly oval in shape, and are bordered by cells which are thicker and of a more granular character than those covering the rest of the surface (see Fig. i6, p. ij). As these cells are actively groAving, and often produce free corpuscles, they have been described by Klein under the name of germinating endothelium. Besides the stoniata, other interruptions in the epithelial layer have been noted. These are called pseudo-stomata ; they are not true openings, liut are p)rocesses of protoplasm sent up to 1 he surface by the con- nective-tissue cells of ilie subserous tissue. Tlie deep layer of serous membranes con- sists of a connective-tis- sue ground substance formed of yelloAV and white fibres, and sup- porting the capillary vessels and lym- phatics ; the ground Fig. 70.—Endotbelium from abdominal surface of cen- tral tendon of diaphragm of a rabbit, stained witli nitrate of silver, a. I;arge endothelial cells covering the general surface of the membrane. 6. Smaller cells over a lymphatic capillary, in vyliich several pseudo-stomata may be seen. substance also contains branching connective-tissue cells lying in cell spaces, many of the processes of which pass up between the epi- thelial cells of the surface and form pseudo-stomata. The fluid secreted by serous membranes is almost identical with the fluid part of lymph, and from the fact that the cavities formed by serous inenibranes freely communicate with the lymphatic system througli the medium of the stomata, it is now generally held' that they are indeed lymph spaces or sacs. As witliclrawn from healthy serous cavities the fluid coagulates spontaneously, but Avhen it accumulates under conditions of disease (in dropsy, for instance), it requires for its coagulation the addition of some sul)stance containing globulin. SYNOVIAL MEMBRANES. These membranes are nearly identical in structure witli the serous membranes, but the secretion is more viscid and something like the white of egg, whence the name. They line the cavities of joints, and are interposed between tendons and bones when much friction or pi'essure is produced during their movenients.