GLUTEAL REGION. 348 The Plantar Fascia consists of three portions, middle and tw lateral. The middle portion is thick and dense, and comi^osed of stro aponeurotic fibres, closely interwoven with eacli other. It is a tached posteriorly to the inferior surface of the tuberosities of t" OS calcis, and terminates under the heads of the metatarsal Ijoues i five fasciculi. Each of these fasciculi bifurcates to embrace the base of the corresponding toe, and is attached in the middle to the shwitli of the flexor tendons, and at either side to the head of the metatai-sal bone. The point of division of the fascia into fasciculi is strengthened l)y transverse bands, which preserve the solidity of the fascia at its broadest part. The intervals between the toes give jiassage to the digital arteries and nerves and lumbricales muscles. The lateral portions are thin, and cover the sides of the sole of the foot; they are continuous behind with the internal and external annular ligament; and on the mesial side with the central jiortioii. The inner portion is continuous along the border of the foot with the fascia of the dorsum ; the oider portion is attached to the os calcis and base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, forming between these points a thick band, which gives origin to part of the abductor minimi digiti muscle. Besides constituting a sti'ong layer of investment and defence t(j the soft parts situated in the sole of the foot, these three portions of fascia send processes inwards, which form sheaths for the different muscles. A strong septum {interrmiscular septim) is given off from each side of the middle portion of the plantar fascia, which is attached to the tarsal bones, and di^^des the muscles into three groups, middle and two lateral; and transverse septa are stretched between these to separate the layers. The superficial layer of muscles derive part of their origin from the plantar fascia. Dissection.—The subject l)eing turned on its face, and a block placed beneath the pubes to support the pelvis, the student coni- niences the dissection of this region by carrying an incision from the apex of the coccyx along the crest of the ilium to its anterior superior spinous process ; or vice versa, if he be on the left side. He then reflects the integument, superficial fascia, and deep fascia, which latter is very thin over this muscle, from the gluteus maximus, follow- ing rigidly the course of its fibres ; and having exposed the muscle in its entire extent, he dissects the integument and superficial fascia from off the deep fascia which binds down the gluteus medius, the other portion of the region. Gluteal Region. Gluteus maximus, Gluteus medius. Gluteus minimus, Pyriformis. Gemellus superior. Obturator internus. Gemellus inferior. Obturator externus. Quadratus femoris.