MUSCLES OF THE BACK. The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MINOR arises from the spinous tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, beneath the inferior curved line. The RECTUS CAPITIS LATERALIS arisen from the transverse process of tlie atlas, and is inserted into the rough surface of the occi])ital bone, externally to the condyle. Tlie OBLIQUUS INFERIOR CAPITIS (major) arises from the spinous process of the axis, and passes oblicpiely outwards to be inserted into the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas. The OBLIQUUS SUPERIOR CAPITIS (minor) arises from the extremity of the transverse process of the atlas, and passes obliqueh- inwards to be inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone, be- tween the curved lines, and directly behind the mastoid process. Relations.—By theii- superjicial surface the recti and obliqui are in relation with a strong aponeurosis which sepa- rates them from the complexus. By their deep surface with the atlas and axis. The rectus posticus major partly covers in the rectus minor. The rectus lateralis is in relation by its anterim- surface with the internal jugular vein, and by its posterior surface with the vertebral artery. Nerve-supply.—The recti and obliqui are supplied Ijy the pos- terior di\'isions of the first and second cervical nerves. Fifi. 198.—Suboccipital region, i. Occiiiital artery and nerve piercing the trapezius. 2. Trapezius. 3. Occipital artery. 4. Com[)lexus. 5. Vertebral artery. 6. Rectus capitis posticus minor. 7. Sub- occipital nerve. 8. Rectus capitis posticus major. 9. Great occipital nerve. 10. Obliquus superior. II. Semi-spinalis colli. 12. Steruo-mastoid. 14. Splenius capitis. 16. Traclielo-mastoid. 18. Ob- liquus inferior. Sixth Layer. Multitidus sj)iiia^, Rotatoi'es spina), Interspinales, Inter-transversales. Dissection.—The semi-spinales muscles mu.st lie i-emoved to obtain a good view of the multitidus s]nna3, which lies lieneatli them, and lills up the concavity between the spinous and transver-se processes, the whole length of the vei-tebral column.