MINUTE STRUCTURE. -671 rings ; tliey are looped and irregular in tlieir arrangement, and are common to both auricles. The circular begin at the apex of the appendix and are continued on to the body of the auricle ; they have on their interior a number of fibres which are arranged longi- tudinally. The circular fibres belonging to each auricle are distinct from those of its fellow. Other fibres surround the entrance of the venoe cavfB and pulmonary veins and are continued for some distance along these vessels. Minute Structure. The cardiac pericardium (epicardium), is a thin layer, composed of sub-serous areolar tissue formed by a network of fine elastic fibres, adherent by the deep surface to the muscular structure of the heart; this sup- ports on its free surface a single layer of polygonal endothelial cells, in the midst of Avliich stomata are found, communicating with the sub-pericardial lymphatics. Beneath the pericardium, especially in the grooves of the heart, is more or less adipose tissue, which is sometimes distributed more ex- tensively over the surface of the organ. The endocardium, or lining membrane of the heart, is also thin, hixt thicker in the auricles than in the ventricles, and especially in the left auricle. It consists of three layers—namely, (i) a thin stratum of white fibrous areolar tissue, which connects it to the muscular striicture ; (2) a middle layer, composed of elastic tissue, which is so abundant in tlie auricles as to constitute a fig. 390.—Endothc- fenestrated membrane ; and (3) a layer of poly- Unm of the endo- gonal endothelial cells. Muscular fibres similar carduim. to those of the wall of the heart are also found in certain parts. In the ventricles the endocardium is transparent; in the auricles, particularly the left, it is opaque and white ; it is continuous with the lining membrane of the vessels which open into the heart. Beneath the endocardium of the ventricles in some animals, as the horse and sheep, peculiar beaded,-reticulating fibres are found, and have been named the fibres of Purldnje. Tliey are formed of large clear nucleated cells joined end to end, surrounded by gi-anular material; the outer part of the cells shows evidences of transverse .striation. 'I'hey are believed to represent a stage in the develop- ment of the heart muscle, and are not present in the adult human heart. The auriculo-ventricular valves are composed of two layers of endocardium, connected in the l)ody of the valve by areolo-tibrous tissue, mingled with a network of elastic fibres ; towards the edges of tlie valve, the two layers become blended with each other, and form a single membrane. Occasionallv the muscular fibres of the heart wall are continued into these valves. The chords tendinece