726 STOMACH. Fig. 435.—Portion of the mucous membrane of the stomach, showing the polygonal alveoli, and at the bottom of these the openings of the gastric follicles. the pylorus being disposed circularly, those over the rest of the interior longitudinally. The circular fold at the pylorus along with the muscular ring, constitutes the pyloric valve. The surface of the mucous mem- brane is covered with small dejiressions called alveoli, of a polygonal form, averaging j-i^ of an inch in diameter. They are aeeper, more marked, and more numerous near the jjylorus. In the bottom of each alveolus, and in the mucous membrane between them, are to be seen minute circular orifices of tubular glands. Four or five open into each alveolus. The gastric follicles, as they are called, are small tubes arranged i3erpendiculaiiy to the mucous surface, their closed extremities resting against the sub- mucous tissue. They are more numerous and longer at the pyloric than at the cardiac end of the stomach, and in the former situation are frequently divided at their deep extremities so as to form compound follicles. They vary in length from to t?^ of an inch, and in width from 'KUT) ^0 Tj^o inch. Two kinds of glands may be distinguished ; the first (which, it is believed, simply secrete mucus) are called mucous glands ; they are SlfflHiBiliil' ^lost numerous near the py- jHiiJiiHIlIi lorus, and are therefore some- times termed pyloric glands. The second kind are named cardiac glands, from the part of the stomach where they are most found ; as they are sup- posed to be specially engaged in the secretion of the gastric juice, they have also been named peptic glands. In both there is a basement mem- brane formed by flattened cells joined edge to edge, and from which processes spring, some to join the cells of the retiform tissue of the mucous membrane, and others to penetrate between the epithelial cells which line the glands. The lining cells differ in their character and arrangement in the two kinds of glands ; in the mucous glands they are throughout of the columnar variety, similar to those covering the surface of the mucous membrane, the only change observable in them being that in the deeper part of the gland they become cul)ical in form instead of elongated. In the cardiac glands the columnar epitlielium is found only ni the upper part (neck) of the gland, the deeper cells being splie- PiG. 436.—Perpendicu- lar section of the stomach in the py- loric region, show- ing its coats and the gastric glands; from the pig. I. Gastric glands. 2. Muscu- lavis mucosse. 3. Submucous coat, in which a vessel has been divided. 4. Transverse fibres of the muscubir coat. 5. Longitudinal fibi-es of the muscular coat. 6. Serous coat.