LAEYNX. 675 bond of union between the left jDulmonary artery and the concavity of the arch of the aorta. The current through the umbilical cord being arrested, the hypo- gastric arteries likewise contract and become impervious. The umbilical vein and ductus venosus, also deprived of their circulating current, become reduced to fibrous cords, the former being the round ligament of the liver, and the lattei' a fibrous band which may be traced along the fissure of the ductus venosus to the inferior vena cava. OEGANS OF EESPIEATION AND VOICE. The organs of respiration are the two lungs, with their air-tube, the trachea, to the ajjper part of which is adapted an apj)aratus of cartilages, constituting the organ of voice, or larynx. THE LARYNX. The larynx is situated at the fore-part of the neck, between the trachea and base of the tongue. It is a short tube, of an hour-glass form, and is composed of cartilages, ligaments, muscles, vessels, nerves, and mucous membrane. , The cartilages are nine in number, three of which are single and placed in the middle line ; the other six are arranged in three j)airs jilaced symmetrically on each side. They are the— 'J'hyroid, Two cornicula laryngis. Cricoid, Two cuneiform. Two arytenoid, Epiglottis. The thyroid {6vpe6s JSos, like a shield) is the largest cartilage of the larynx : it consists of two lateral portions, or alae, Avhich meet at an angle in front, and form the projection which is known by the name of pomum Adami. In the male, after puberty, the angle of union of tlie two alse is acute ; in the female, and before puberty in the male, it is obtuse. When the pomum Adami is j)rominent a bursa mucosa is often found between it and the skin. ' Each ala is quadrilateral in shape, and forms a rounded border posteriorly, which terminates above, in the superior cornu, and l)elow, in the inferior cornu ; the former pass upwards and slightly backwards, and are connected by means of the thyro-hyoid ligaments with tlie extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides; the latter curve downwards and inwards, and terminate by a sniooth facet, by means of which they articulate with the lateral aspect of the cricoid cartilage. On the side of the ala is an oblique line or ridge, directed downwards and forwards, and bounded at each 'ex- tremity by a tubercle. Into this line tlie sterno-tliyroid muscle is inserted, and from it the thyro-hyoid takes origin ; the triangular area behind it gives attachment to the inferior constrictor of the