499 BASE OF THE BRAIN. cerebral artery which enter the brain in this situation to supjily the grey substance of the cori^us striatum. The optic commissure is situated in the middle line ; it is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. The tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey substance situated immediately behind the optic commissure, and in front of the cor- pora albicantia. From its centre there projects a small conical body of grey substance, apparently a prolongation of the tuber cinereum, the infundibulum. The infundibulum is hollow, enclosing a short ctecal canal, which communicates with the cavity of the third ventricle ; and, below the termination of the canal, the conical process becomes connected with the pituitai'y body. The infun- dibulum and tuber cinereum form jiart of the floor of the third ventricle. The pituitary body (hypojDhysis cerebri) is a small, flattened reddish-grey body, situated in the sella turcica, and closely retained in that situation by the dura mater and arachnoid. It consists of two lobes, closely j)ressfed together, the anterior lobe being the larger of the two and oblong in shape, the posterior roimd. Both lobes are connected witli the infundibulum, but the latter is so soft in texture as to be generally torn through in the removal of the brain. Indeed, for the purposes of the student, it is better to eftect this separation with the knife, and leave the pituitary body in situ, to be examined with the base of the cranium. The corpora albicantia (mammillaria, bulbi fornicis) are tw(» white convex bodies, having the shaj^e and size of peas, situated behind the tuber cinereum, and between the crura cerebri. They are a part of the anterior crura of the fornix, which, after their origin from the thalami optici, descend to the base of the brain, and making a sudden curve upon themselves jirevioiisly to their ascent to the lateral ventricles, constitute the corpora albicantia. When divided by section, these bodies will be found to be composed of a capsule of white substance, containing grey matter, the gi'ey matter of the two corpora being connected by means of a commissure. The locus perforatus posticus (jjons Tarini) is a layer of whitish- gi'ey substance, connected in front with the corpora albicantia, behind Avith the pons Varolii, and on each side with the crura cerebri, be- tween which it is situated. It is perforated by several thick tufts of arteries derived from the posterior cerebral which are distributed to the thalami optici and third venti'icle, of M-hich latter it assists in forming the flooi'. The crura cerebri (peduncles of the cerebrum) are two thick white cords, which issue from the anterior border of the pons Varolii, and di^-erge to enter the thalami optici and corpora striata. The third nerve will be observed to arise from the inner side of each crus, and the fourtli nerve winds ai-ound its outer border from above. The diverging ci'ura cerebri behind, the tempoi'o-sphenoidal lobes at the sides, and the end of the longitudinal fissure in front, limit