ORGAN OF HEARING. 640 Fig. 374.—Small bones of the tym- panum. A. Incus. B. Malleus, c. The three bones articulated. D. Stapes. E. The foot of the stapes. I. Processus gracilis of the malleus. 2. Processus brevis. Os orbiculare. of the mastoid cells by means of a ligament; the long process descends nearly parallel with the liandle of the malleus, and curves inwai'ds near its termination. At its extremit v is a small globular projection, the os orbiculare, which in the foetus is a separate piece, but becomes anchylo^ed to the long process of the incus in tin- adult ; this process articulates with the head of the stapes. The stapes is shaped like a stirruji, to which it bears a close resemblance. Its head articulates with the os orl)i- culare, and the two branches (cruia) are connected by their extremities wiih a flat, oval-shaped plate, representiuir the foot of the stirrui^. The foot (if the stirruj) is received into the fenesti a ovalis, to the margin of which it is connected by means of a ligament; it is in contact, by its surface, \sdth tlif membrana vestibuli, and is covered in by the mucous lining of the tympanum. The neck of the stapes gives attacli- ment to the stapedius muscle. The ossicula auditus are retained in position and moved ujioii themselves by means of ligaments and muscles. The ligaments are five in number : the suspensory ligament •<! the malleus (Fig. 373, s.l.m.), which is attached by one extremity in the upper wall of the tympanum, and by the other to the head of the malleus ; the anterior ligament of the malleus (formerly descriljed as the laxator ti/mpani muscle), a broad and strong'band which con- nects the anterior wall of the tympanum with the malleus, in a line extending from the base of the processus Folianus to the head ; tlie external ligament of the malleus (Fig. 373, l.c.m.), a fan-shaped band of fibres radiating from the processus brevis to the sides of the Rivinian recess ; the posterior ligament of the incus, a short and thick Itand, which serves to attach the extremity of the short process of that bone to the margin of the 0])ening of the mastoid cells ; and the annuhir ligament, which connects the margin of the foot of the stapes Avitli the circumference of the fenestra ovalis ; it is continuous with tlie periosteum of the vestibular wall and with tliat covering the foot oi the stapes. Between the head of the malleus and the incus, and between the incus and stajies, there are distinct joints ; the bones being uniti'il by ligaments, the osseous surfaces coated with cartilage, and tlie joints lined l)y complete synovial membranes. The muscles of the tympanum are two in numlier, the— 1 Tensor tympani, Stapedius.