392 BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The middle meningeal is (imbraced at its origin l>y the two root.s of the auriculo-teinporal nerve ; it ascends behind tlie teniporo- niaxillary ai-ticulation to the foramen sjjinosum in the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and entering the cranium, divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch crosses tin- great ala of the sphenoid to the groove or canal in the anterioi- inferior angle of the parietal bone, and divides into brandies whicli ramify on the external surface of the dura mater, and anastomose with corresponding branches from the opposite side. The posterior branch crosses the squamous portion of the temporal bone, to the posterior part of the dura mater and cranium. The liranches of the middle meningeal artery are distributed chiefly to the bones of the skull ; in the middle fossa it sends ;i small petrosal branch through the hiatus Fallopii to the facial nerve, and branches to the Gasserian ganglion. The lesser meningeal is a small branch which ascends to the foramen ovale, and passes into the skull to be distributed to the Gasserian ganglion and dura mater. It gives off a twig to the nasal fossae and soft palate. The lesser meningeal is often derived from the middle, instead of from the internal maxillary directly ;—the tympanic also occasion- ally springs from the same trunk. The muscular branches are distributed, as their names imply, to the five muscles of the maxillary region ; the deep temporal branches are two in number, anterior and jDosterior ; they inosculate with the middle and superficial temporal. The pterygoid branches are distributed to the two muscles of that name. The masseteric artery passes outwards, behind the tendon of the temjooral muscle and over the sigmoid notch, to the masseter muscle. The buccal branch, arising opposite the anterior part of the pterygoid muscle, passes downwards with the buccal nerve to the buccinator muscle. It inosculates with the facial and transverse facial arteries. The superior dental or alveolar artery is given oft" from the internal maxillary, just as that vessel is about to make its turn inwards to reach the sj)heno-maxillary fossa. It descends on the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and sends its branches through several small foramina to supply the posterior teeth of the upper jaw, and the antrum. The terminal branches are continued forwards on the alveolar process, to be disti'ibuted to the gums and sockets of the teeth. The infraorbital appears, from its size, to be the proper con- tinuation of the artery. It runs along the infraorbital canal with the superior maxillary nerve, sending branches upwards into the orbit, and downwards, through canals in the bone, to supply the mucous membrane of the antrum and the teeth of the upper jaw, and emerges on the face at the infraorbital foramen. The branch which supplies the incisor teeth is the anterior dental artery; on the face the infraorbital inosculates with the facial and transverse facial arteries.