HEART. 66o ventricular and interventricular grooves lie the arteries, veins, neiTe plexuses, and lymjihatics of the organ. The front of the lieart is chiefly formed of the wall of the right ventj-icle ; the left l)order and apex by the left ventricle ; the extreme right edge by the right auricle ; and the posterior surface mainly Ijy the left ventricle, with a small part of the right ventricle and left auricle. At the base, above the auriculo-ventricular groove, are the auricles, surmoimted by their auricular appendages ; these are lappet-like pi'ocesses which overlap the root of the j)ulmonary artery. The lungs extend on to the margins of the heart, especially during inspiration, so that when they are fully inflated only a small triangular part not more than two inches in extent is left uncovered. The pulmonary artery is the large anterior vessel at the root of the heart; it crosses obliquely the commencement of the aorta. The right is the venous side of the heart; it receives into its auricle the venous blood from every part of the body, by the superior and inferior cava and coronary sinus. From the auricle the blood passes into the ventricle, and from the ventricle througli the pulmonary artery to tlie capillaries of the lungs. From these it is returned as arterial blood to the left auricle ; from the left auricle it passes into the left ventricle, and from the left ventricle is carried through the aorta, to be distributed to every part of the body and again returned to the heart by the veins. This constitutes the course of the adult circulation. The heart is best studied in situ. If, however, it be removed from the body, it should be placed in the position indicated by the above description of its situation. An incision should be made from the superior to the inferior cava, and joined by one at right angles to it, passing into the auricular appendage. The blood must then be removed. The RIGHT AURICLE is larger than the left, and consists of a principal cavity and an auricular appendix ; the former is the part into which the great veins empty their blood, and it hence receives the name of sinus venosus or atrium. The interior of the auricle presents for examination five openings, two valves, two relics of fcetal structure, and tAvo peculiarities in the proper structure of the auricle. To facilitate remembrance they may be thus arranged :— Valves . ^ Qoj-onary valve. The superior vena cava returns the blood from the upper hal of the body, and opens into the upper and back part of the auricle. The inferior vena cava returns the blood from the lower hal of the body, and opens through the lower and posterior wall, close to the partition between the auricles (septum auricularum). The