TRANSVEKSALIS. 291 Tlie TRANSVERSALIS is the internal flat muscle of tlie abdo- luc-ii, and is tninsverse in the'direction of its fibres, as implied in Its name. It arisen from the outer third of Poupart's ligament, from tlie anterior two-thirds of the internal lip of the crest of the ilium ; ri uni the spinous and transverse processes of the lumbar vertebi'te through the medium of the aponeurosis, and from the inner surface lit the six inferior costal cartilages, interdigitatiug with the fibres of tlie diajjliragm. The superior fibres, proceeding from the cartilage 111' the seventh rib, are inserted into the ensiform cartilage ; the Ulterior fibres, proceeding from Poujjart's ligament, curve down- wards to be inserted by means of a tendinous exjDansion common lo it, and the internal oblique, the conjoined tendon, into the crest of t he pubes and pectineal line ; while the fibres intermediate between these points terminate near,the outer border of the rectus in an apo- neurosis, which is continued onwards to the linea alba. The upper ] K irtion of the ajjoneurosis, closely united with the posterior lamella (if the aponeurosis of the internal oblique, assists in forming the ; II isterior wall of the sheath of the rectus, while the inferior portion, ' iiiiunencing at a point midway between the umbilicus and pubes, i> Lontinued with the undivided aponeurosis of the internal oblique in front of the rectus. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal oljlique, the internal surface of the six lower ribs, and internal intercostal muscles. By its internal surface with the transversalis fascia, Avhich separates it from the peritoneum, with the psoas magnus, tlie lower part of the rectus, and pyraniidalis. The spermatic cord and oblique inguinal hernia pass beneath the loiver harder, but have no direct relation with it. The upper harder is continuous with the diaphragm and triangularis sterni. Nerve-supply.—Anterior branches of lower intercostals. Lumbar Fascia.—The posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis divides into three lamellae, anterior, middle, and posterior, which constitute the fascia lumhorum. The anterior lamella, thin and membranous, is attached to the base of the transverse processes of tlie lumbar vertebree ; the middle lamella, of considerable thickness, to their apices ; the posterior layer receives the posterior aponeurosis of tlie internal oblique, and is attached to the spines of the lumbar vertebra3; near the Ijorder of the erector spina;, it becomes united with the aponeurosis of the latissimus dorsi and serratus posticus inferior. Between the anterior and middle lamella is lodged the quadratus lumborum ; and between the middle and posterior layer, the erector spinse and multifidus spina?, which are thus furnished with aponeurotic sheaths. The anterior layer is attached above to the lower margin of the last j-ib and forms the lUjamentum arcuatum externum. Dissection.—To dissect the rectus muscle, its sheath should be opened by a vertical incision extending from over the cartilages of the lower ril)s to the front of the os pubis. The sheath may then he dissected ott and turned aside ; this is easily done excepting at