5o8 CEREBRUM. are the lateral ventricles. To e xpose them completely, their upper boundary sliould Ije removed with the scissors. In making tliis dis- section tlie thin and diaphanous lining membrane of the ventricles may fre(|uently be seen. LATERAL VENTRICLES.—Each lateral ventricle is divided inUj a central cavity and three smaller cavities called cornua. The ante- rior cornu curves forwards and outwards in the anterior ]ol>e ; llie middle cornu descends into the nuddle lobe; and the posterior cornu passes backwards in tlie i)osterior lol)e, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. The central cavity is triangular in form, being bounded al)Ove {roof) by the coi'pus callosum ; internall}- by the septum lucidum, which separates it from the opposite ven- tricle ; and below {floor) hj the following parts, taken in their order of position from before backwards : — Corpus striatum, Choroid plexus. Tenia semicircularis, Corpus fimbriatum. Thalamus opticus, Fornix. The corpus striatum is named from the striated lines of white and grey matter which are seen upon cutting into its substance. The portion of it which is seen in the lateral ventricle is the intra- ventricular nucleus or nucleus caudatus. Its anterior extremity forms a rounded projection in the anterior cornu ; from whence it may be traced outwards and backwards, along the outer border of the optic thalamus, and separated from it by the stria terminalis. It becomes much narrower as we trace it backwards (the ajojjearance thus pro- duced giving rise to the name of nucleus caudatus), and its extremity will be found in the roof of the middle or descending horn. The other parts of the corpus striatum will be described when the structures seen in a transverse section of the brain are under con- sideration. The taenia semicircularis or stria terminalis is a narrow whitish band, extending along the posterior border of the corpus striatum, and serving as a bond of connection between that body and the thalamus opticus. It joins the anterior pillar of the fornix and is continued with it to the corpora albicantia. The tenia is partly con- cealed by a large vein {vena corimris striati), which receives numerous small veins from the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, and terminates in the vena Galeni of its own side. The thalamus opticus {thalamus, a bed) is an oblong body, having a thin coating of white substance on its surface ; and ha.s received its name from liaving tlie optic tract lying against its under surface. It is the inferior ganglion of the cerebrum. Part only of the thalamus is seen in the floor of the lateral ventricle ; we must, therefore, defer its further description until we can examine it in its entire extent. The choroid plexus (xoptoj/, ei8os, resembling the chorion) is a vascular fringe extending obliquely across the iloor of the lateral ventricle, and sinking into the middle cornu. Anteriorly, it is I