769 PEOSTATE GLAND. PROSTATE GLAND. The prostate gland (Trpota-TTjfii, to stand in front of) is situated in front of the neck of the bladder, behind the triangular ligament and pelvic fascia, and upon the rectum, through which latter it may be felt with the finger. It measures about one and a half inches across at its base, is about an inch and a quarter from base to apex, and its depth is nearly an inch ; it weighs from six di-achms to an ounce. It surrounds the commencement of the urethra for a little more than an inch of its extent, and resembles a Spanish chestnut both in size and form ; the base being directed backwards towards the neck of the bladder, the apex forwards, and the flattened side towards the rectum. It is retained firmly in position by the anterior and lateral ligaments of the bladder, and by a process of the pelvic fascia, which forms a sheath around it. It consists of three imperfectly defined lobes, two lateral and a middle lobe or isthmus ; the lateral lobes are distinguished by an indentation at the base of the gland, and a slight furrow on its upper and lower surface. The third lobe (prometria) is a small mass which passes between the two lateral Fig. 473.—Transverse section througla the middle of the prostate gland, u. The urethra, encroached on below by the caput galliuaginis. s. Sinus pocularis. de. Ejaculatory ducts. The upper m shows the deep sphincter muscular fibres, the lower m the muscular bands penetrating into tlie lateral lobes, p. Glandular substance. lobes at the back part of the under surface of the organ ; it is generally imperfectly marked in the normal state of the gland, but becomes evident when enlarged ; when prominent it corresponds to the elevation at the neck of the bladder called the uvula. Structure.—It is covered by a thick and strong fibrous capsule, derived from the recto-vesical fascia behind and deep layer of the triangular ligament in front, and divisible into two layers, between which the prostatic plexus of veins is i^aced. Its proper structure IS composed of smooth muscle and glandular tissue, the latter being not more than one-third or one-fourth of the whole, and consisting of from thirty to fifty compound racemose glands, of a pyriform shape. Its secretion is poured into the prostatic portion of the urethra by fifteen or twenty excretory ducts. The ducts of the lateral lobes open into the urethra at each side of the veru mon- tenum ; those of the third lobe open upon and behind the veru The greater part of the prostate is formed of unstriped muscle mixed with white and yellow fibrous tissue ; the muscle fibres are many of them arranged circularly around the urethra, and are continuous with tliose ot the sphincter vesicfe ; others pass transversely across 3 c