367 SOLEUS AND POPLITEUS. the two muscles. It corresponds to the palmaris longus in the forearm. Nerve-supply.—Internal popliteal nerve. The SOLEUS (solea, a sole) is the broad muscle upon which the plantaris rests. It arises from the head and upper half of the fibula, from the oblique line and middle third of the inner border of. the tibia, and from a tendinous arch thrown across between these two portions. Its fibres converge to the tendo-Achillis, by which it is ■ inserted into the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis. The tendinous arch gives passage to the popliteal vessels and nerve in their course to the leg. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gastrocnemius and plantaris. By its deep surface with the intermuscular fascia, which separates it from the flexor longus digitorum, tibialis posticus, flexor longus hallucis, posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and pero- neal vessels. Nerve-supply.—Internal jDopliteal. Actions.—^The three muscles of the calf draw powerfully on the OS calcis, and lift the heel; continuing their action they raise the entire body. This movement is attained by means of a lever of the second power, the fulcrum (the toes) being at one end, the weight (the body supported on the tibia) in the middle, and the power (these muscles) at the other extremity. They are, therefore, the walking muscles, and perform all move- ments that require the support of the whole body from the ground, as dancing, leaping, &c. Taking their fixed point from below, they steady the leg upon the foot. The gastrocnemius is also a powerful flexor of the leg on the thigh. Deep Layer. Popliteus, Flexor longus digitorum. Flexor longus hallucis, Tibialis posticus. Dissection.—After the removal of the soleus, the deep layer will be found bound down by an intermuscular fascia which is to be • dissected away ; the muscles may then be examined. The POPLITEUS muscle {^oples, the ham of the leg) for ms the floor of the popliteal region at its lower part, and is bound tightly - down by a strong fascia derived from the middle slip of the tendon of the semi-membranosus niuscle. It arises by a rounded tendon from a deep groove at the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, beneath the external lateral ligament and within the capsular ligament of the joint; and spreading obliquely over the head of the tibia, is inserted into the surface of the bone above its oblique line. This line is sometimes called, from l^eing the limit of insertion of the popliteus muscle, the poyliteal line. During flexion of the limb, the tendon of origin of this muscle lies in the groove on the outer side of the external condyle of the femur. It is homologous with the pronator radii teres in the forearm.