642 ORGAN OF HEARING. Sometimes the whole of the cells contain air, while in other speci- mens the mastoid process is sclerosed and there is no general ex- cavation. In all cases, however, a cavity is found at the upper and anterior part of the mastoid which communicates with the tympanic cavity, and is called the mastoid antrum; it is present even in infancy, and corresponds in position to the triangular area bounded above Ijy the superior root of the zygoma, below by the edge of the external auditory meatus, and behind by the commencement of the rough surface of the mastoid. The Eustachian tube is a short canal about an inch and three- quarters in length, extending obliquely between the pharynx and the anterior edge of the tympanic membrane. It is directed do\\-n- wards, forwards, and inwards, and opens anteriorly, behind tlie inferior meatus of the nose, into the pharynx. It consists of an osseous and a fibro-cartilaginous portion, the former of which has been already described in connection with the temporal bone. The cartilage of the Eustachian tube is of a triangular form, having its inferior angles rolled up towards each other, but leaving between them a gap on the under side, which is filled up with fibrous tissue. On its anterior aspect is a muscular band, continuous with the tensor palati, and named by Riidinger dilatator tubce. The tube narrow where it opens into the tympanum, but expands anteriorly, so as to become wide and trumpet-shaped. The smaller openings serve for the transmission of the chorda tympani nerve, and the two muscles of the tympanum. The opening by which the chorda tympani enters the tympanum is at about the middle of its posterior wall, and near the root of the pyramid. The opening of exit for the chorda tymjjani is at the inner end of the fissure of Glaser in the outer wall of the tympanum. The nerve is usually contained in a canal (called the canal of Huguier) distinct from the fissure of Glaser. The opening for the tensor tympani muscle is in the anterior wall, immediately above the oj)ening of the Eustachian tube. The opening for the stapedius muscle is at the apex of a conical bony eminence, the pyramid, which is situated at the back part of the inner wall of the tymj)anum, immediately behind the fenestra ovalis. Directly above the fenestra ovalis is a rounded ridge formed liy projection of the aquoiductxhs Fallopii. Beneath the fenestra ovalis and separating it from the fenestra rotunda is the promontory, a rounded prominence formed by the projection of the first turn of the cochlea. It is channelled on its surface by three small groo%'es which lodge the three tympanic branches of Jacobson's nerve. The foramina and processes of the tympanum may be arranged, according to their situation, into four groups :— I. In the external wall, from above downwards, are the— Meatus auditorius, closed by the membrana tympani. Fissure of Glaser, Canal of Huguier.