463 SAPHENA VEINS. mphena. They commence on the dorsum of the foot in a venous arch which lies across the metatarsus ; this venous arch receives the digital veins by its convex side. The external saphena vein commences at the outer extremity of the venous arch and on the outer border of the foot. It passes behind the outer ankle, ascends along the posterior aspect of the leg, lying in the groove between the two bellies of the gastrocnemius muscle, and jpierces the deep fascia in the popliteal region to join the i^opliteal vein. It receives several cutaneous branches in the popliteal region pre-\dously to perforating the deep fascia, and is in relation in its course witli the external saphenous nerve. The internal saphena vein commences at the inner extremity of the venous arch of the dorsum and on the inner side of the foot and great toe. It ascends in front of the inner ankle and along the inner side of the leg ; it then passes behind the inner condyle of the femur and along the inner side of the thigh to the saphenous opening where it pierces the sheath of the femoral vessels, and terminates in the femoral vein, at about one inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. It receives in its course the cutaneous veins of the leg and thigh, and communicates freely with the deep veins. At the saphenous opening it is joined by the superficial epigastric and circumflex iliac vein, and by the external pudics. The situa- tion of this vein in the thigh is not unfrequently occupied by two or even three trunks of nearly equal size. It is accompanied in its course below the knee by the long saphenous nerve. Fig. 281. — External saphena vein and its counections. i. Ex- ternal saphena. 2. Popliteal. 3. Dorsal vein of the foot. VEINS OF THE TRUNK. The veins of the trunk may be divided into—i. The superior vena cava, with its formative branches. 2. The inferior vena cava, with Its formative branches. 3. The azygos veins. 4. The vertebral and spinal veins. 5. The cardiac veins. 6. The portal vein. 7. The pulmonary veins. SUPERIOR VENA CAVA, WITH ITS FORMATIVE BRANCHES. The innominate veins are two large trunks, formed by the union of the internal jugular and subclavian vein at each side of tlie root ot the neck.