406 BRANCHES OF SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. the dura mater, enters the skull through the foramen magnum. The two arteries unite at the lower border of the pons Varolii, to form the basilar artery. At its origin the artery is behind the in- ternal jugular vein, and as it ascends comes to be placed between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles ; on the left side, it i« crossed by the thoracic duct. In the foramina of the transverse pro- cesses of the vertebrae the artery lies in front of the cervical nerves, and has the vertebral vein in front of it. The sub-occipital nerve passes out beneath it where it lies on the groove of the atlas. As i enters the cranium the vertebral artery is placed between the hypo- glossal nerve and the anterior root of the sub-occipital nerve, Ijeneath the first process of the ligamentum denticulatum ; it next winds round the medulla and lies between it and the basilar jiortion of the occipital bone. If the two arteries differ in size, the left is generally the larger. The basilar artery formed by the union of the two vertebrals is so named from its position at the base of the brain ; it runs forward in the groove on the midline of the pons Varolii, and at the anterior border of the pons di\ddes into four terminal branches, two to each side. Branches.—The branches of the vertebral artery are the fol- lowing :— Lateral spinal, Anterior spinal. Muscular, or Sub-occipital, Posterior spinal. Posterior meningeal. Posterior inferior cerebellar. Thfe lateral spinal branches enter the intervertebral foramina, and taking the course of the roots of the spinal nerves, reach the spinal canals, where each divides into two branches, one to be distri- buted to the spinal cord, anastomosing Mdth the other spinal arteries, and the second branch passing to the body of the vertebra. The muscular or sub-occipital branches are distributed to the deep muscles of the neck, as the vertebral artery curves round the articular process of the atlas ; they anastomose with the deep cervical and occipital arteries. The posterior meningeal are one or two small branches which enter the cranium tlu-ough the foramen magnum, to be distributed to the dura mater of the cerebellar fossae, and to the falx cerebelli. The anterior spinal is a small branch which unites with its fellow of the opposite side on the front of the medulla oblongata. The artery formed by the union of these two vessels descends along the anterior aspect of the spinal cord, to which it distributes branches ; they anastomose with the other spinal arteries. The posterior spinal winds around the medulla oblongata to the iiosterior aspect of the cord, and descends on each side to the cauda equina. It communicates very freely with the spinal branches of the intercostal and lumbar arteries, and near its origin sends a branch upwards to the fourth ventricle. The posterior inferior cerebellar arteries wmd around the