6o4 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. The inferior branches pass some before and some Ijehind the subclavian artery, to join the first thoracic ganglion. The external branches consist of two sets; one which com- mimicates with the sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical, and first dorsal nerves, and one which accompanies the vertebral artery along the vertebral canal, forming the vertebral plexus. The plexus sends filaments to all the branches given olF by that artery, and communicates in the cranium with the filaments of the carotid plexus accompanying the branches of the internal carotid artery. The internal branch is the inferior cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus minoi". CARDIAC NERVES.—The cardiac nerves are three in number at each side—namely, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior cardiac nerve {nervus superfioialis cordis) proceeds from the lower part of the superior cervical ganglion ; it descends the neck behind the common carotid artery and parallel with the trachea, crosses the inferior thyroid artery, and running by the side of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, enters the chest. The nerve of the right side passes either in front of or behind the subclavian artery and along the posterior aspect of the arteria innominata to the deep cardiac plexus. The left superior cardiac nerve runs by the side of the left carotid artery, and crosses the arch of the aorta to the super- ficial cardiac plexus. In its course it receives branches from the pneiunogastric nerve and its external laryngeal branch, and sends filaments to the thyroid gland and trachea. The middle cardiac nerve (nervus cardiacus viagnus) proceeds from the middle cervical ganglion, or in its absence, from the cord of communication between the superior and inferior ganglion. It is the largest of the three nerves, and lies parallel with the recurrent laryngeal. At the root of the neck it divides into several branches, which pass some before and some behind the subclavian artery, communicates with the superior and inferior cardiac, pneumogastric, and recurrent nerves, and descends to the bifurcation of the trachea, to join the deep cardiac plexus. On the left side this nerve passes between the left carotid and subclavian arteries to reach the chest, and terminates in the left side of the deep cardiac plexus. The inferior cardiac nerve (nervus cardiacus minor) arises from the inferior cervical gauglion, communicates with the recurrent laryngeal and middle cardiac nerves, passes behind the subclavian artery and descends to the front of the bifurcation of the trachea, to the deep cardiac plexus. The nerve of the left side often unites with the middle cardiac nerve, either before or immediately after they enter the thorax, the combined cord joining the deep cardiac ^^The SUPERFICIAL CARDIAC PLEXUS is situated immediately beneath the arch of the aorta and in front of the right pulinonary artery. It receives the superior cardiac nerve of the left side ana the inferior cardiac branch of the left pneumogastric nerve, botn