JEJUNUM AND ILEUM. 729 and pancreatic duct open into the internal and posterior side of the perpendicular portion, a little below its middle. ' The third or transverse portion of the duodenum, the longest and narrowest of the three, lies behind the diverging layers of the transverse meso-colon, with which and with the stomach it is in relation in front; above, it is in contact with the lower border of the pancreas, the superior mesenteric artery and vein being interposed ; and, behind, it rests on the inferior vena cava, left renal vein, the two crura of the diaphragm, and aorta. The extremity of the duodenum is held in place by a band of non-striated muscle and connective tissue, which descends to it from the coeliac axis and left crus of the diaj)hragm, and is named the musculus suspensorius duodeni. The jejunum (jejimus, empty) is named from being generally found empty. It forms the upper two-fifths of the small intestijie ; .commencing at the bend of the duodenum, on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and terminating in the ileum. It is wider and thicker than the rest of the intestine, has a pinkish tinge from I containing more mucous membrane than the ileum, and is situated ' in the umbilical and left iliac regions. The ileum (e'tXeiv, to twist, to convolute) includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It is somewhat smaller in calibre, thinner in texture, and paler than the jejunum ; but there is no mark by which to distinguish the termination of the one or the commencement of the other. It is situated in the umbilical and hypogastric regions and jDelvic cavity, and terminates in the riglit ,1 iliac fossa, by opening at an obtuse angle into the commencement of 1 the colon, I The jejunum and ileum are surrounded, above and at the sides, , by the colon ; in front they are in relation with the omentum and ! abdominal parietes ; they are retained in position by the mesentery, i which connects them with the posterior wall of the abdomen; and below they descend into the cavity of the pelvis. At about the ' lower third of the ileum a pouch-like process or diverticulum of the intestine is occasionally seen. This is a vestige of embryonic structure, and results from the obliteration of the omi^halo-mesen- ' teric or ^dtelline duct at a short distance from the cylinder of the intestine. Structure of the Intestinal Canal. The intestinal canal, like the stomach, has four coats—se?-OMs, irmcsrular, submucous, and mucous. i SEROUS COAT.—Tlie serous layer of the small intestine is formed by the peritoneum. Tlie first or ascending portion of the duodenum is completely covered l)y the serous memljrane, with the excei)ti()n of the points of attacliment of the omenta. Tlie descending portion has only a partial covering on its anterior surface, derived from the I'ight meso-