388 BRANCHES OF EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY, quently tei'ininates at the angle of the nose or mouth, and is rarely symmetrical on both sides of the lace. The OCCIPITAL ARTERY, smaller than the anterior branches, passes backwards behind the jmrotid gland and beneath the j^osterioi- belly of the digastric, traclielo-mastoid, and sterno-mastoid to the occipital groove in the mastoid portion of the tempoi-al bone. It then ascends between the splenius and com])lexus, pierces the tra- pezius, and is distributed to the back of the head, anastomosing with the opposite occipital, posterior auricular, and temporal arteries. The hypoglossal nerve curves around this artery opposite the angle of the jaw and near its origin from the external carotid. The occi- pital artery is sometimes derived from the ascending cervical of the thyroid axis, or from the internal carotid. Branches.—It gives off several muscular branches to the sterno- mastoid, digastric, stylo-hyoid, and deep muscles in its course, a small branch to the external ear, and two larger branches, inferior meningeal and princeps cervicis. The inferior meningeal ascends by the side of the internal jugular vein, and passes through the jugular foramen, to be dis- tributed to the dura mater. The arteria princeps cervicis is a large and irregular branch. It descends the neck between the complexus and semi-spinalis colli, and inosculates with the deep cervical of the subclavian and with branches of the vertebral. This branch is the means of estab- lishing an important collateral circulation 1)etween the branches of the carotid and subclavian, after ligature of the common carotid artery. A small mastoid branch enters the skull through the mastoid foramen, and is distributed to the dura mater. The POSTERIOR AURICULAR ARTERY arises from the external carotid, al)ove the level of the digastric and stylo-hyoid muscles, and ascends by the side of the styloid process and behind the parotid gland, to the back part of the concha. It is distributed l>y two l)ranches to the external ear (auricular branch), and side of the head (occipital branch), anastomosing with the occipital and temporal artery ; some of its branches pass through fissures in the fibro-cartilage to reach the anterior surface of the pinna. Branches.—The posterior auricular gives off a branch to the digastric muscle, and several branches to the parotid gland ; it then gives off the stylo-mastoid, which enters the stylo-mastoid foramen to be distributed to the aqufeductus Fallopii, labyrinth, mastoid cells, and tympanum; a twig accompanies the chorda tympani under the name of tympanica superior. One branch of the stylo-mastoid artery forms with tlie anterior tympanic artery an anastomic circle round the drum of the ear. The ASCENDING PHARYNGEAL ARTERY, the smallest ol the branches of the external cai'otid, arises from that trunk near its origin (or at the point of bifui'cation of the common carotid), and ascends to the base of the skull. i