f jiiS PECTORALIS MAJOR. The pectoralis major admits of division into three portions, clavi- ctdar, sternal, and costal; the two former are 6ei)arated from eacli other by a well-marked areolar interspace ; the latter is distin- guished not only by its origin, hut also l)y forming a fold beneatli the sternal portion, and lying behind it at its insertion. At the latter 2)oint the three portions are superimposed, the clavicular being in front, the sternal next, the costal behind ; the clavicular portion being prolonged at its insertion to the lower extremity of tlie bicii^ital ridge, the costal portion to its upper end. The clavicular portion, which arises highest up, is inserted lowest down, and the costal portion which arises lowest is inserted highest on the liumerus. Relations.—By its external surface with the fibres of origin of the platysma myoides, mammary gland, superficial fascia, and in- tegument. By its internal surface, on the thorax, with the clavicle, sternum, costal cartilages, intercostal nuiscles, sul)clavius, pectoralis minor, and serratus magnus ; in the axilla, with the axillary vessels and glands. B}^ its external border with the deltoid, from which it is separated above by an areolar interspace lodging the cephalic \-eiii and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its loii-er harder forms the anterior boundary of the axillary space. Nerve-supply.—External and internal anterior thoracic Ijranclies of the brachial jjlexus. Dissection.—The pectoralis major is to be removed l)v dividing its fibres along the lower Ijorder of the clavicle, and then carrying the incision perpendicularly downwards, j^arallel to the sternum, and at about three inches from its Ijorder. DiWde some loose areolar tissue, and several small branches of the thoracic arteries, and reflect the muscle outwards. We thus bring into view a region of con- siderable interest, in the middle of which is situated the pectoralis minor. The PECTORALIS MINOR arises by three digitations from tlit- front, upper border and outer surface of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs near their cartilages, and from the intercostal fascia ; and is inserted by a broad tendon into the anterior border and upper surface of the coracoid process of the scapula. It is closely united at its insertion with the coraco-brachialis. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pectoralis major and superior thoracic" vessels and nerves. By its posterior s?«/flce with the ribs, intercostal muscles, serratus magnus, axillary space, and axillary vessels and nerves. Its xipper border forms the lower boun- dary of a triangular space, bounded above by the costo-coracoid membrane, and internally by the ril)s ; in this space are found the axillary vessels and nerves. Nerve-supply.—Internal antei-ior thoracic from the inner cord ot the l)rachial ]i]exus. Costo-coracoid Membrane.—In oider to see the next muscle it is necessary to I'emove a strong sheet of fascia which covers it in; this is called the costo-coracoid membrane. It is a process of deep cervical fascia which, passing beneath the clavicle, encloses the sub-