207 WKIST-JOINT. md the internal lateral ligament, a fourth separating the radial jxtensors from the posterior ligaments, a fifth beneath the tendons )f the common extensor, and a sixth beneath the tendon of the jxtensor carpi nlnaris. 8. ARTICULATIONS BETWEEN THE CARPAL BONES.—These ire arthrodial joints, with the exception of the conjoined head ot ihe OS magnuni and unciform, which is received into a cup formed by the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bone, and constitutes an ^narthrosis. The ligaments are :— Dorsal, Interosseous fibro-cartilages, Palmar, Annular. The dorsal ligaments are ligamentous bands that pass trans- versely and longitudinally from bone to bone on the dorsal surface of the carpus. The palmar ligaments are fasciculi of the same kind, but stronger than the dorsal, having the like disposition on the palmar surface. The interosseous ligaments are fibro-cartilaginous lainellse situated between the adjoining bones in each range : in the upper range they close the upper part of the space between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones ; in the lower range they are stronger than in the upper, and connect the os magnum on the one side to the unciform, on the other to the trapezoid, leaving intervals through which the synovial membrane is continued to the bases of the meta- carpal bones. The anterior annular ligament is a firm ligamentous band, which connects the bones of the two sides of the carpus. It is attached by one extremity to the trapezium and scaphoid, by the other to the unciform process of the unciform and base of the pisi- form bones, and forms an arch over the anterior surface of the carpus, beneath which the tendons of the long flexors and the median nerve pass into the palm of the hand. The posterior annular ligament is a flattened band of fibrous tissue about half an inch in breadth, passing across from the lower end and styloid process of the radius to the cuneiform, pisiform, and base of the fifth metacarpal. It assists the posterior ligament of the wrist-joint in binding the] hand to the forearm, and in carry- ing the hand with the radius in pronation. A more complete de- scription of this ligament and the preceding will be found in the section on the muscles and fasciae. The articulation of the pisiform bone with the cuneiform is provided with a separate synovial membrane, protected by fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, which form a kind of capsule around the joint, and are inserted into the cuneiform bone. This bone is also connected with the unciform and base of the metacarpal of the little finger by two strong fibrous bands. Synovial Cavities.—There are Jive synovial cavities between the articulations of the carpus :— The first is situated between the lower end of the ulna and the