rOPLITEAL SPACE. 440 anterior aspect of the thigli. One of these Ijranches, larger tlian the rest, arises from the femoi'al immediately helow the origin of the ])rofnncla, and passing ontwards between the sartorius and rectus, divides into branches, which are distrilnited to all the muscles of the anterior aspect of the thigh. This may be named the sv/jje-rior vmscular artery. The anastomotica magna arises from the femoral near its tei - mination at the o])ening in the adductor magnus, and divides into a superficial and deep branch. The sxqoerficial branch accompanies the internal saphenous nerve to the knee, and piercing the fascia lata is distri- buted to the integument. The deep branch passes onwards through the substance of the vastus internus muscle, resting on the tendon of the ad- ductor magnus to the knee, where it inoscu- lates with the internal articular branches of the popliteal, and the recur- rent of the anterior tibial. It also sends a branch through the vastus inter- nus, which supi^lies the synovial membrane of the joint, and inosculates with the superior exter- nal articular artery and external circiimflex. POPLITEAL SPACE. This is a space of a diamond shape, situated at the back of the knee- joint. It is bounded be- low by the outer and inner heads of the gas- trocnemius, above by the outer and inner ham- strings, in front by the torius. 12. Plautaris. 13. Gastrooueniius, inner posterior ligament of the head. 14. Gastrocnemius, outer head. 15. Short VnPP-inint nnd is covered saphenous nerve. 16. Communioans perouei Knee . Oim,ana lb COjeieu nerve. 17. External saphena vein. 19. Longsaphe- m behind by the lascia nous nerve. lata of the thigh. It con- tains the popliteal vessels and their branches, the divisions of the 16 Fio. 269.—Popliteal space, i. Branch of the small sciatic nerve (cut). 2. Biceps and external pop- liteal nerve. 3. Semi-tendinosus. 4. Internal pop- liteal nerve. 5. Semi-meniljranosus. 6. Popliteal vein. 7. Superior internal articular artery and nerve. 8. Popliteal artery. 9. Gracilis. 10. Supe- rior external articular artery and nerve. II. Sar-