CONVOLUTIONS AND SULCI. sphenoidal convolution. 9. Third teiuporo-sphenoidal convolution. lo. First occipi- tul convolution. 11. Second occipital convolution. 12. Third occipital convolution, a. First or upper external anneetant convolution. /3. Second external annectunr convolution, y. Third external anneetant convolution. S. Fourth external an- neetant convolution. an irregular area, the interpeduncular space. Tlie structures therein situated form tlie floor of the tliird ventricle ; they are the hunina cinerea, tuber cinereuni, infundilnilum, corpora albicantia, and locus jDerforatus posticus. Tlie pons Varolii has been already described. On its lateral aspect is the thick bundle of filaments belonging to the fifth nerve ; lying against its posterior border are the se\'enth and eighth pairs of ner^•es, and between it and the anterior pyramid of the medulla the -•^ixth nerve has its origin. The medulla oblongata is described at p. 491. Convolutions and Sulci. The cerebrum is divided into five lobes, which, although inti- mately connected with each other in their deeper parts, are sepa- I'ated on the surface by well-defined fissures or sulci ; they are the frontal, parietal, occipital, temporo-sphenoidal, and central. The fissures which form the boundaries of these lobes are three in number—the fissure of Sylvius, fissure of Rolando, and parieto- occipital fissure : these will be first descriljed, after which the dif- ferent lobes and the convohitions Avill be studied in detail. Fissure of Sylvius (Fig. 299, c, e).—This fissure has already l)een mentioned in connection Avith the structures at the base of the brain ; it consists of two portions, one of which (c) passes almost A'ertically upwards into the frontal lobe ; the other (e) is directed obliquely upwards and backwards, and serves to separate the parietal from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. The group of convolutions placed l)etween the tAVO limljs of the fissure of Sylvius were collectively named l.)y Broca the opercuUim of the insula, but are better known as the lobe of Broca ; on turning them aside the central lobe or island of Reil is lii'ought into Aaew. Fissure of Rolando (Figs. 299 and 300, d).—Placed nearly in the centre of the outer surface of the cerebrum, this fissure is found to commence near the margin of the longitudinal fissure, and to run doATOAvards and forwards, to terminate a little l)eliind the bifurcation of the fi ssure of Syh'iiis. It divides the frontal from the parietal lobe, and is bounded througlumt its entii'e length l)y two convolu- tions, the one in front l)eing the ascending frontal, the one behind the ascending parietal. The chief motor areas of the cortex are situated in the convolutions bordering on this fissure. The parieto-occipital fissure is less distinctly marked than the two just descril)ed ; it is l^est seen on the inner surface of the hemi- sphere (Fig. 301, p o). It commences near the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, Avhere it is united with the calcarine fissure, and passing upAvards and l)ackwards appears on the margin of the