ACTION OF THE MUSCLES OF KESPIEATION. 283 The LEVATORES COSTARUM are divided into long and short. The short, twelve in number at each side, arise from the apex and lower border of the transverse process of the last cervical and eleven upper dorsal vertebrfB ; and pass downwards and outwards radiating ill their descent, to be inserted into the upper border of all the ribs, between the tubercle and angle. The uppermost muscle is the smallest, and their breadth increases from above downwards. The long muscles, four in number at each side, arise from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebra, the seventh to the tenth, and are inserted into the four lower ribs ; each muscle passing over a rib in its descent, and being attached to the rib below as tar as its angle. The long muscles lie superficially to tlie sliort ones and increase in size from alDove do^TOAvards. Relations.—By their su-perjicial surface with tlie sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, and transversalis cer- 'icis. By their deep surface with the ribs and intercostal spaces; the short muscles close the intercostal spaces, and are united by their ex- ternal border with the ex- ternal iiitercostals. Nerve - supply.—The posterior divisions of the dorsal iierA^es. Actions of the Respira- tory Muscles.—Respiration is produced by the alternate largement and diminu- tion of the capacity of the thorax ; the former result- ing in the influx of air, or inspiration, and the latter in an expulsion of air, or thoracic cavity takes in its three diameters, the vertical, trans- verse, and antero-posterior; the vertical measurement being in- creased by the descent of the diaphragm which forms the fioor of the cavity, and by the elevation of the first rib ; the transverse diameter hy the elevation and rotation of the ribs ; and the antero- posterior l)y the raising of tlie ribs and forward projection of the sternum. Ordinary tranquil inspiration is performed by the descent of the diaphragm and the elevation of the ribs and sternum by means of the intercostal muscles ; Avhen the act is more forcibly performed these are aided by the levatoi'es costarum, scalene muscles, and serratus posticus superior. In full inspiration the scapula is fixed by means of the muscles which connect it with the vertebral column ; the powerful muscles which pass from the shoulder to the Pi(i. igg.—Intercostal muscles and levatores cos- tarum. IV. Fourth dorsal vertebra. V. Fifth rib. T, I. Levatoies costarum muscles, long and short. 2. ISxternal intercostal. 3. In- ternal intercostal. expiration. The enlargement of the