236 CAPSULE OF TENON. sheath of the optic nerve ; it passes forward to the pulley at the internal angular process of the frontal bone ; its tendon is then reflected outwards beneath the superior rectus to the outer part of the globe of the eye, where it is inserted into the sclerotic coat, at about midway between the margin of the cornea and the ojitic nerve. The trochlea ovpulley of the superior oblique muscle is a cartilaginous ring attached to the depression beneath the internal angular process of the frontal bone by bands of white fibrous tissue. The ring is Hat, about a line in width, and provided with a synovial membrane, which is continued, together with a fibrous sheath, for a short dis- tance, upon the tendon. Sometimes the ring is supported, or in part formed, by a process of bone. Relations,—By its superior surface with the fourth nerve, supra- trochlear_ nerve, superior rectus, and periosteum of the orbit. By the inferior surface with the adipose tissue of the orbit, globe of the eye, upper border of the internal rectus, and the vessels and nerves crossing that border. Nerve-supply.—The fourth nerve. The OBLIQUUS INFERIOR, a thin and narrow muscle, arises from the inner margin of the superior maxillary bone, immediately external to the lachrymal groove, and passes beneath the inferior rectus, to be inserted into the outer and posterior pai't of the eyeball, at about two lines from the entrance of the optic ner^^e. Relations.—By its superior surface with the inferior rectus muscle and eyeball; by the inferior surface with the periosteum of the floor of the orliit, and external rectus. Nerve-supply.—Inferior division of the third nerve. CAPSULE OF TENON.—The muscles of the orbit are separated from the globe of the eyeball and structures immediately surround- ing the optic nerve, by a fascia, which is continuous with the broad tarsal ligament and tarsal cartilages. This fascia is termed tunica vaginalis oculi, or capsule of Tenon. It surrounds the eyeball except at the anterior part where it is reflected on the inside of the conjunctiva and eyelids, and is pierced anteriorly, for the passage of the six orbital muscles, by six openings, through which the tendons of the muscles play as through pulleys. Tubular pro- longations are continued on to the muscles as they pierce the capsule, but soon become lost in their sheaths. From this fascia processes pass off into the fat of the orbit, and diAdde the cavity into a number of loculi filled with fat. The most important of these l^ands passes across the lower part of the orbit, and is attached to the malar and lachi'ymal liones ; it slings up the orbital contents, and hence has been called the suspensory ligament by Lockwood. Other bands pass from the malar and lachrymal bones to the sheaths around the external and internal recti muscles ; they serve to check the external and internal rotation of the eyeball, and have been named the external and internal check ligaments. The capsule of Tenon is a serous membrane and is lined vAth endothelium ; it consists of a parietal and visceral layer, and the