PEKITONEUM. 702 nection witli the front of the sacrum. Besides this, there are some minor folds m the pelvis, as the recto-vesical fohl, the false liga- ments of the bladder, and the broad ligaments of the uterus The ligaments of the liver, uterus, and urinary bladder will be fully discussed in the description of those organs. The appendices epiploicse are small irregular pouches of tlie peritoneum, filled with fat, and attached like fringes to the coh>^\, and upper part of the rectum. _ Three other duplicatures of the peritoneum are situated in tlici sides of the abdomen; they are the gastro-phrenic ligament, the gastro-splenic omentum, the ascending and descending meso-colon, and the costo-colic ligament. The gastro-phrenic ligament is a small duplicature of the peritoneum, which descends from tlie diaphragm to the extremity of the oesophagus, and lesser curve of the stomach. The gastro-splenic omentum (ligamentum gastio- lienale) is the duplicature which connects the spleen to the stomacli. The ascending meso-colon is the fold which connects the upj.er part of the ascending colon with the posterior wall of the abdomen ; and the descending meso-colon, that which retains the sigmoid flexure in connection with the abdominal wall. The costo-colic ligament (sustentaculum lienis) is a fold of peritoneum which stretches from the diaphragm al^out the level of the tenth (iv eleventh rib on the left side, to the splenic flexure of the colon ; it supports the spleen. Review of the Relations of the Peritoneum to the Abdomi- nal Viscera.—The liver is entirely covered by peritoneum, excepting a triangular area on its upper surface, where the coronary and falci- form ligaments meet, and its posterior border, including the lol)ns Spigelii. The stomach may be considered as 2>ractically entirely covered by peritoneum, but Cathcart has pointed out that there is a triangular area at the back where it rests against the left crus of the dia]Dhragm which is uncovered. The spleen is entirely covered. The ascending duodenum and the whole of the jejunum and ilium are entirely enveloped ; the descending and transverse parts of the duodenum are covered only in front. The transverse colon has peritoneum all round it. The ascending and descending portions vary in their arrangement; the ca3cum is usually completely covered so that there is a meso-caecum, and the same thing is true of the sigmoid flexu.re, a meso-sigmoid being generally present. The ascending and descending parts of the large bowel are commonly covered only in front, but in many cases tlie descending colon has a meso-colon and is thus completely covered, and in less frequent examples the ascending colon is in the same condition. The ujiper part of the rectum has a meso-rectum ; the part below this is covered only on the front and sides ; the next part has ijeritoneum only in front, and the last has no relation to that membrane. The jiancreas, kidneys, and sui^ra-renal capsules are covered only in front. The relation of the peritoneum to the pelvic organs will be considered when the organs themselves are described.