38 NERVES. Fit;. 52.—Structure of ganglionic nerve cell. A. According to Beale. b. According to Arnold, a. Central fibre, b. Spiral fibre. c. Capsule of ganglion. iiucltiiis of the cell and the spiral fibre witli tlic nucleolus. Tlic two liljres on leaving tlie cell run in opposite directions in the A nerve Avitli whicli the gang- lion is connected. A commissure is a col- lection of nei-\e fibres act- ing as a link of communi- cation between two nerve (centres. A nerve is a rounded oi' flattened cord of nerve fibres ^vhich forms the channel of connection between tlu; ner\ e centi'es and all the parts of tlie body. The nerve cords aie surrounded by a strong sheath of -fibrous membrane called epineurmm, which not only preserA'es their rounded form, but forms se])ta which pass into the interior of the cord, subdividing it into a number of strands or funiculi. Each funiculus is also surrounded by a membrane called perineurium^ composed of fine connecti^'e tissue arranged in concentric lamelliie, with lymph clefts be- tween them; in the surface laj^ers, there is a preponderance of elastic tissue. Tlie lamellae are lined on both their surfaces by a single layer of flattened epithelial cells. The nerve fibres in each funiculus are held together by very fine connective-tissue fibres, forming the endoueuriuvi; thesi- run longitudinally, and serve to support the blood-vessels distri- buted to the nerve. Branching of Nerves.—A branch of a nerve consists of several funiculi which leave the parent trunk and become in- vested with an epineuriiim de- rived from its sheath. Inosculation or Communi- cation.—Nerves frequently form junctions of a portion of their substance so as to become complex in structure, but in such cases the individual nerve fibres do not as a rule communicate willi Fk;. 53.—Section of a small nerve, i. Perineurium. 2. Lymph space beneath perineurium. 3. Lymph space pene- trating into centre of nerve. 4. En- doneurium. 5. Nerve fibres cut across. 6. Nuclei of endoneurium.