416 ULNAR ARTERY. the oblique ligament, and descends between the superficial and deep layer of muscles of the foiearm to tlie back of the wrist, where it inosculates witli the anterior interosseous and posterior carpal branches of the radial and ulnar. At its upper part it gives off a recurrent branch, posterior interosseous recurrent, which lo- turns upon the elbow between the anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris, and supinator brevis, and anastomoses with the posterior terminal branches of the superior profunda. The muscular branches of the ulnar artery are distributed to the muscles of the ulnar border of the forearm. The anterior carpal, a branch of small size, passes outwards upon the front of the wrist-joint, and contributes to form the anterior carpal arch by inosculating with the anterior carpal branch of the radial artery. The posterior carpal, larger than the preceding, passes beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris muscle to the back of the wrist-joint, where it inosculates with the posterior carpal branch of the radial artery, and forms a loosterior carpal arch. The metacarpal, often a branch of the preceding, passes along the inner border of the metacarpal bone of the little finger, and forms the dorsal collateral branch of that finger. The communicating or deep ulnar branch arises close to the annular ligament, and dips between the abductor minimi digiti and flexor brevis to inosculate with the termination of the deep palmar arch. It is accompanied by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar nerve. The digital branches, four in number, are given off from the convexity of the superficial palmar arch. The first and smallest is distributed to the ulnar side of the little finger. The other three are short trunks, which divide between the heads of the metacarpal bones, and form the collateral branch of the radial side of the little finger, the collateral branches of the ring and middle finger, and the collateral branch of the ulnar side of the index finger. On the last phalanx, the collateral arteries communicate and form an arch, from which numerous branches are given off to the tip of the finger. The arteries of the hand are subject to frequent variety of distri- bution. THORACIC AORTA. The thoracic aorta commences at the lower border and left side of the fifth dorsal vertebra, passes slightly to the right as it descends, and terminates in front of the last dorsal vertebra by passing through the aortic opening of the diaphragm. Relations.—The artery is situated in the posterior mediastinum of the thorax, and has behind it the vertebral column and vena azygos minor. The esophagus lies first to its right side, then in front, and at the upper surface of the diaphragm is placed to the left of the artery although still in front of it.