561 HYPOGLOSSAL NEEVE. The branches of the hypoglossal nerve are—branches of communi- cation and branches of distribution. The branches of communication of the hypoglossal nerve are— several to the pnenmogastric, with which nerve it is closely united ; one or two with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic ; and one or two with the loop between the first and second cervical nerves. The branches of distribution are— Descendens cervicis, Tliyro-hyoid, Muscular. The descendens cervicis (descendens noni) is a long and slender nerve, which quits the hypoglossal just as it is about to form its arch around the occipital artery, and descends on the sheath of the carotid vessels. Just below the middle of the neck it forms a looj) {ansa hypoglossi) with the commnnicans cervicis, derived from the second and third cervical nerves. From the convexity of this loop branches are sent to the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and both Fig. 330.—Anatomy of the side of the neck, showing the nerves of the tongue. I. Temporal bone. 2. Stylo- hyoid muscle. 3. Stylo-glossus. 4. Stylo-pharyngeus. 5. Tongue. 6, 18. Hyo-glossus muscle. 7. Geuio-hyo- glossus. 8. Genio-hyoid. 9. Sterno- hyoid muscle. 10. Sterno-thyroid. II. Thyro-hyoid, upon which the thyro-hyoid branch of the hypoglossal nerve is seen ramifying. 12. Omo- hyoid crossing the common carotid artery (13) and internal jugular vein (14). 15. External carotid giving off its branches. 16. Internal carotid. 17. Lingual branch of fifth giving a twig to the submaxillary ganglion (18), and communicating a little far- ther on with the hypoglossal nerve. 19. Submaxillary, or Wharton's duct, passing forwards to the sublingual gland. The submaxillary ganglion is the small round body between figrures 18 and 19. 20. Glosso-pharyn- geal nerve. 21. Hypoglossal nerve curving around the occipital artery. 22. Descendens cervicis nerve, form- ing a loop with (23) the comraunicans cervicis, which is seen arising by filaments from the upper cervical nerves. 24. Pnenmogastric nerve. 25. Facial nerve. bellies of the omo-hyoid ; sometimes also a twig is given off to the cardiac ple.xus, and occasionally one to the phrenic nerve. The descendens cervicis probably arises from the upper cervical nerves, and is only temporarily associated with the hypoglossal (Luschka); this view receives confirmation from the fact that in 2 N