RADIO-ULNAR ARTICULATION. 204 tensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, and supinator brevis ; behind, triceps and anconeus. Nerves.—The chief supply of the joint is derived from the ulnar nerve, but it also receives twigs from the muscular-cutaneous and median. Actions,—The movements of the elbow-joint are flexion and extension. These movements are oblique, so that the forearm is inclined inwards in flexion and outwards in extension. Flexion is limited by the meeting of the soft parts of the arm and forearm, and extension by the muscles and ligaments on the front of the joint becoming tense ; these effects being produced before the coro- noid and olecranon processes reach the bottom of their respective fossae. Bursae.—The bursae in connection with this joint are only three in number : the first of these lies between the tendons of the ex- tensor carpi radialis brevior and extensor communis digitorum, and the external lateral ligament; the second between the olecranon and posterior ligament; and the third between the olecranon and the superficial structures. 6. RADIO ULNAR ARTICULATION.—The radius and ulna are firmly held together by ligaments, connected with both extremities of the bones, and with the shaft; they are :— Orbicular, Anterior inferior radio-ulnar. Oblique, Posterior inferior radio-ulnar. Interosseous, Interarticular fibro-cartilage. The orbicular ligament (annular, coronary) is a firm band, several lines in breadth, which surrounds the head of the radius, and is attached by each end to an extremity of the lesser sigmoid cavity. Some of the lower fibres are continued round beneath the sigmoid cavity so as to form a complete circle. It is strongest behind w^here it receives the external lateral ligament, and is lined on its inner surface by a reflection of the synovial membrane of the elbow'- joint; it gives attachment to fibres of the supinator brevis muscle. The oblique ligament is a narrow slip of ligamentous fibres, descending obliquely from the base of the coronoid process of the ulna to the inner side of the radius, a little below its tuberosity. Its fibres run in the opposite direction to those of the interosseous membrane. The interosseous membrane is a broad and thin plane of apo- neurotic fibres passing obliquely downwards from the sharp ridge on the radius to that on the ulna. It is deficient superiorly, broader in the middle than at each extremity, and perforated at its lower part for the passage of the anterior interosseous artery. The pos- terior interosseous artery passes backwards between the oblique ligament and upper border of the interosseous membrane. The interosseous membrane affords an extensive surface for the attachment of muscles ; and is in relation, in front, with the flexor profundus digitorum, flexor longus poUicis, pronator quadratus, and