772 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. Tysoni. The integument around tlie base of the glans forms a loose fold, the prepuce, which, in the collapsed state of the organ, may- be drawn ovei' the glans, Init, in its distended state, is oljliteratecf, and serves to facilitate its enlargement. The internal surface of tin' prepuce is lined by mucous membrane, whicli, as above desci'ibed, is reflected over the glans, and, at the meatus urinarius, is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra. The superficial fascia of the penis is thin, and its areolar struc- ture free from fat; it is continuous with the superficial fascia of tlie abdomen above, and with the dartos and superficial fascia of the perineum below. The suspensory ligament of the penis is an elastic fibrous mem- brane of triangular form, attached by its apex to the symphysis pubis ; and by its base, to the body of the penis. Near the latter attachment it separates into two layers, to give passage to the dorsal vessels and nerves of the penis. The penis is composed of the corpus cavernosum and corpus spoyigiosum, and contains in its interior the longest portion of the urethra. The corpus cavernosum is distinguished into two lateral portions (corjiora cavernosa) by an imperfect septum and a superior and in- ferior groove, and is divided posteriorly into two crura. It is firmly adherent, by means of its crura, to the rami of the pubes and iscliium; and each crus, previously to its junction with its fellow, pre- sents a slight enlargement, wliich was named by Kobelt, the bulb. The corj^us cavernosum forms, anteriorly, a single rounded extremity, which is received into a fossa in the base of the glans ; the superior groove lodges the dorsal vessels of the jDenis, and the inferior receives the corpus spongiosum. Its fibrous tunic is thick, elastic, and extremely firm, and sends a number of fibroiis bands and cords (trabeculse) inwards from the inferior groove, which, cross the interior in a radiating direc- tion, and are inserted into the inner walls of the tunic. These trabeculse are most abun- dant at the middle line, where they are ranged vertically, side by side, somewhat like the teeth of a comb, and constitute the imperfect partition of the corpus cavernosum, called septum pectiniforme. The septum is more complete at its posterior than towards its anterior part. The tunic of the corpus cavernosum consists of two layers of fibrous fasciculi. The external is longitudinal and forms a kind of close net by the frequent interchange ot fibrous bundles; it is common to the two corpora cavernosa. The internal, less thick, forms a circle around each lateral mass, and also constitxites the septum pectini- forme. From its anterior extremity it gives off small fibrous bands, t 1 ;{ Pio. 475.—Transverse sec- tion of the penis. i. Dorsal vein. 2. Dorsal artery. 3. Dorsal nerve. 4. Artery of corpus cavernosum. s- Septum pectiniforme. 6. Ure- thra, surrounded by corpus spongiosum.