75 CERVICAL VERTEBRA. pieces united into two bones, the sacrum and coccyx. Tlie arrange- ment of the vertebrae may be better comprehended by means of the accompanjdng table :— True vertebrce ( ^ Cervical, -p^^g^ vertebrte ( 5 Sacrum, ^4 - 9 14 Coccyx. Characters of a Vertebra.—A vertebra consists of a body or centrum, two lamina3, a spinous process, two transverse processes, and four articular processes. The body or centrum is the solid part of the vertebra ; and, by its articulation with adjoining vertebrae, gives strength and support to the trunk. It is flattened above and below, convex in front, and slightly concave behind. Its anterior surface is constricted around the middle, and j)ierced by numerous small openings, which give passage to nutrient vessels. On its posterior surface is a single irregular opening, or several, for the exit of the venee basis vertebrae. The lamince commence upon the sides of the posterior part of the body of the vertebrae by two pedicles; they then expand, and, arching backwards, enclose a foramen {neural canal), which serves for the jDrotection of the spinal cord. The upper and lower borders of the laminae are rough for the attachment of the ligamenta subflava. The concavities above and l^elow the pedicles are the intervertebral notches. The spinous process stands backwards from the angle of union of the laminae. It is the succession of these projecting processes along the middle line of the back, that has given rise to the common designa- tion of the vertebral column, the spine. The use of the spinous pro- cess is for the attachment of muscles. The transverse processes project one at each side from the laminae of the vertebra; they also are intended for the attachment of muscles. The articular processes, four in number, stand upwards and downwards from the laminae, to articulate with the vertebra above and below. Cervical Vertebrae.—In a cervical vertebra the body is smaller than in tlie other regions ; it is broad from side to side, con- cave on the upper surface and convex below, so that, when articu- lated, the vertebrae lock the one into the other. The lateral borders of the upper surface are produced into prominent ridges, and the anterior edge of the lower surface overlaps that of the vertebra Ijelow. The lamince are narrow and long, and the included spinal foramen large and triangular. The superior intervertebral notches are slightly deeper than the inferior; the inferior being the broadest. The spinous process is short and bifid at the extremity, increasing in length from the fourth to the seventh. The transverse processes are also short and bifid, and deeply grooved along the upper surface for tlie cervical nerves. Piercing the base of the transverse process is tlie vertebral foramen, which gives passage to the vertebral artery and vein, aiid vertebral plexus of nerves. The artery connnonly passes only through the vertel)ral foramina of