794 OVAEIES. of fatty granules; the cells quickly lose their definition afl..^ (leath, and then the epithelium assumes the appearance whi, 1, has gained for it the name of membrana granulosa, namely, a granular layer Avith numerous nuclei. The membrana granuh^a torms a uniform lining to the OA-isac, excepting on the side nearc4 the surface of the ovary, where the cells are accumulated into a small eminence, termed discus proligerus or germinal eminence ihis germinal eminence contains a minute globular nucleated" vesicle, the ovum. The fluid contents of the ovisac, liquor follicvI; are a clear yellowish fluid, and a few free albuminous cells detached' from the membrana granulosa. 'I'he Graafian vesicles are vei \- small in the outer part of the ovary, but are tliere so numerous as to give a granular character distinct from that of the rest of tlie organ ; hence it is defined as the cortical portion. In the deeiiei' portions they are less numerous but larger and more mature, and as they increase in size they displace the cells of the cortical portion in order to reach the surface of the organ. Ovum.—The ovum, measuring in its mature state about ^-i^ of an inch in diameter, is a globular vesicle consisting of a cell mem- brane, the vitelline membrane, a yelk or vitellus, and a vesicular nucleated nucleus, the vesicular nucleus being the germinal vesicle, and the nucleolus the germinal spot. The cell membrane is clear and transimrent, and has received the name of zona pellucida; with high magnifying powers, it is, however, possible to make out fine striae passing radially through the membrane, and it is for this reason named the zona striata or striate membrane. The yelk, yellowish and viscid, consists of protoplasm filled with granules and nuclei, and traversed by an extremely fine reticulum. The germinal vesicle measures about inch, and consists of a nuclear network supporting nucleoplasm. As the ovisac attains maturity, it approaches nearer and nearer the capsule of the ovary, and pressing against the capsule renders it so thin that moderate pressure, such as that made by the fibriated extremity of the Fallopian tube, causes the protrusion and rupture both of the ovisac and the capsule of the ovary. By this rupture the ovum is expelled, carrying with it the germinal eminence and part of the membrana granulosa, which in its new relation is termed the germinal disc, discus proligerus. The ovisac, now emptied of its contents, is quickly filled with a sanguineous fluid, i-esulting from the tearing of its vessels, the internal iDortion of the tuniea fibrosa becomes thickened and plicated, and converted into a yelloM' vascular tissue, while the external layer of the tunic retains it> character of a white fibrous membrane. This is the corpus luteuni, a yellowish mass with fast-diminishing cavity, jDlicated structuie, vascular, and enclosed in a thin fibrous layer. It retains these characters up to the second or third month of pregnane}', and then slowly diminishes in size, being gradually lost some months aftei- parturition is complete, or reduced to a small whitish oi" dark coloured mass. The corpora lutea, which are independent of preg-