HEART. 672 consist of a fasciculus of tendinous fibres invested by a thin layer of endocardium. The semilunar valves are composed of a thin stratum of elastic and areolar tissue, the elastic tissue forming a fine network in tlie substance of the latter, and the free surface being invested by a single or double layer of endothelium. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the heart are derived from the left and right coronary ; the capillaries form a fine netwoi-k around the muscular fasciculi as in other muscles ; the veins accom- pany the arteries, and empty themselves by the common coronary vein into the right auricle ; the Thebesian and right cardiac veins discharging their blood directly into the auricle. The valves of the heart are non-vascular, with the exception of the auriculo-ventri- cular valves when they contain muscular fibre. Lymphatic vessels are scanty in the bag of the ])ericardium, but numerous beneath the visceral layer ; they follow the grooves of the heart, and terminate in the glands situated beneath the arch of the aorta, and upon the bifurcation of the trachea. The nerves of the heart are numerous, and derived from the cardiac j^lexuses, which are formed by filaments fi'om the sym- ]iathetic and pneumogastric nerve, and reach the substance of the organ by means of the anterior and posterior coronary plexus. The nervous filaments partly accompany the vessels, partly cross theij- course, anastomose with each other at acute angles, and pierce the surface of the heart to reach its substance and the endocardium. The nerves are grey, being composed of fine pale fibres, a few only of the larger nerves containing in addition an admixture of medullated fibres. Wliere the nerve filaments intersect each other there are minute ganglionic enlargements, which receiA^e the name of ganglia of Remak. Size and Weight of the Heart.—Roughly stated, the heart is about equal in size to the closed fist of the individual; it measures about five inches in length, three and a half in greatest width, and two and a half in greatest thickness. The average weight of the heart in the male is eleven ounces, and in the female about nine ounces. M Foetal Heart and Foetal Circulation. ^ Foetal Heart.—At the time of birth the heart is large in pro- portion to the size of the body ; the walls of the two ventricles are of nearly equal thickness, and are relatively thicker than in adult life ; the right and left auricles communicate by an oval opening, foramen ovale (Foramen of Botal). Both ventricles ]iour their blood into the aorta, this being accomplished in the case of the right ventricle by means of a trunk connecting the pulmonary artery with the junction of the transverse and descending parts of the arch, ductus arteriosus ; the Eustachian valve is large, and serves to prevent the blood from the inferior cava passing into the auricnlo- ventricular opening, directing it into the foramen ovale. Foetal Circulation.—The pure blood is brought from the placenta