SPINAL COED. 487 The anterior lateral groove is a mere trace, marked only by the attachment of the filaments of the anterior roots ; the posterior lateral groove is somewhat more evident. These fissures and grooves divide the cord into columns, those of the two sides accurately corresponding, and receiving the same names. The column between the anterior median fissure and anterior nerve roots is called the anterior column ; that between the anterior and posterior nerve roots, the lateral column,—the two together being often spoken of as the antero-lateral column. Between the posterior median fissure and the posterior nerve roots is the posterior column, which is again di\dded by the posterior intermediate septum into a postero-internal column (Column of Goll) and a postero-external (Golumn of Burdach). Internal Structure.—If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, its internal structure may be seen and examined. It will then appear to be com- posed of two hollow cylin- —^ ders of white substance ^ ' ^' placed side by side, and connected by a narrow ivhite commissure. Each cylinder is filled with grey substance, which is con- nected by a commissure of the same matter {grey commissure). The grey matter is both relatively and absolutely the greatest in quantity in the lumbar portion of the cord ; the white matter is relatively the greatest in amount in the dorsal region, and ab- solutely greatest in the cervical region. The form of the grey substance, as observed in the section, is that of two irregularly curved or crescentic lines joined by a transverse band. The extremities of the curved lines cor- responding witli the sulci of origin of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves are termed 1"JG. 289.—Transverse section of half the spinal cord. I, I. Anterior median fissure. 2, 2. Pos- terior median fissure. 3. Central canal. 4. Pos- terior commissure. 5. Anterior commissure. 6. Posterior column. 7. Lateral column. 8. An- terior column, g. Posterior root. 10. Anterior root, a, a. Caput cornu posterioris. 6. Cervix cornn. c. Posterior vesicular column, rf. Inter- inedio-lateral tract, e, e. Fibres of the anterior roots joining the anterior horn. /. Fibres run- ning from anterior to posterior cornu. cornua ; the anterior cornu is short and thick ; the posterior cornu, long and slender, reaches nearly to the surface of the posterior lateral sulcus. The back part of the posterior horn is enlarged, and is called