INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. 403 by common trunks and run along the borders of the rib. Besides supplying the intercostal muscles, they send branches to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland. The perforating arteries pass forward to the front of the chest througli the first six intercostal spaces ; they then turn outwards, and after giving some bi'anches to the front of the sternum, are dis- tributed to the pectoral muscles and mammary gland. Those intended for the mammaiy gland are of larger size than the rest. The musculo-phrenic artery, proceeding from the internal mam- mary at the interspace between the sixth and seventh ribs, passes downwards and outwards over the cartilages of the false ribs to the last intercostal space. It pierces the diaphragm at the attachment of that muscle to the eighth rib, and sends branches to its muscular structure, and others to the intercostal spaces of the false ribs which form the anterior intercostal arteries of those spaces, and are dis- tributed in the same way as those above described. The superior epigastric artery descends in the sheath of the rectus muscle, and gives off branches which are distributed to the muscles of the abdominal wall. It anastomoses with the deep ej)igastric, a branch of the external iliac. The mammary arteries are remarkable for the number of their inosculations, and for the distant parts of the arterial system which they serve to connect. They anastomose with each other, and their inosculations, with the thoracic aorta, encircle the thorax. On the parietes of this cavity their branches connect the axillary and sub- clavian arteries : on the diaphragm they form a link in the chain of inosculations between the subclavian artery and abdominal aorta ; and in the parietes of the abdomen they form an anastomosis most remarkable for the distance between those vessels which it serves to connect—namely, the arteries of the superior and inferior extremities. The THYROID AXIS is a short trunk which arises from the front of the subclavian close to the inner border of the anterior scalenus, and divides almost immediately into three branches, inferior thyroid, supra-scapular, and transversalis colli. ' The INFERIOR THYROID ARTERY ascends obliquely in a ser- pentine course behind the sheath of the carotid vessels, and in front of the longus colli, to the inferior and posterior part of the thyroid gland, to which it is distributed. It is in relation with the middle cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, which lies in front of it. It gives off the following branches :— Inferior laryngeal. Ascending cer\-ical. The inferior laryngeal accompanies the recurrent laryngeal nerve to the larynx and is distributed to the muscles and mucous meni- Tracheal, CEsophageal. brane.