GLOSSAEY OF ANATOMICAL TEEMS. 815 Parietal (Lat. paries, the wall of a house). The term applied to two of the bones of the cranium. Parotid (Gk. irapd, near, and ods, the ear). The salivary gland situated just in front of the ear. Patella (Lat. patella, a small pan). The knee-pan, or cap of the knee. Pectineal (Lat. pccten, the pubic bone). The term applied to prominences of the pubic bone. Pectoralis (Lat. pectus, the breast). The term applied to two muscles of the breast. Pelvis (Lat. pelvis, a basin). The osseous girdle which contains the in- ternal organs of generation. Penis (Lat. penis, a tail). The male organ of generation. Penniform (Lat. pcnna, a feather, and forma, likeness). Feather-shaped ; a term applied to those muscles that have their fibres arranged on one side of a long tendon. Peptic (Lat. pepticus, digestive). Pertaining to digestion. Perfokans (Lat. p)erforare, to pierce through). A designation of the flexor pi'ofimclus digitorum from its perforating the tendon of the flexor sublimis. Pericardium (Gk. irepl, around, and Kapdia, the heart). The membrane which surrounds the heart. Perichondrium (Gk. irepi, around, xo'^^/^os, cartilage). The membrane that covers the free surface of cartilage. Pericranium (Gk. irepi, around, and Kpdviov, the cranium). The periosteum of the cranium. Perimysium (Gk. Trepi, around, and fj,vs, muscle). The areolar sheath surrounding muscular fibre. Perineum (Gk. wepi, around, and vaiw, I am situated). The space between the anus and the scrotum, or anus and vagina. Perineurium (Gk. wepi, around, and vevpov, a nerve). The sheath which encloses the funiculi of a nerve. Periosteum (Gk. irepi, around, and bareov, a bone). The membrane which covers the outside of a bone. Periotic (Gk. irepi, around, and ov%, the ear). The petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal bone. Peritoneum (Gk. irepi, about, and Teivu, I stretch). The serous membrane which lines the abdominal and pelvic cavities. Peroneal (Gk. irepbvi), the pin of a buckle). Belonging to the fibula. Pes (Lat. pes, the foot). A term applied to parts resembling a foot. Pes anserinus (Lat. pics, a foot, and anserinus, belonging to a goose). The goose's foot. The name of a plexus of nerves formed by the facial, or portio dura of the seventh pair, on the side of the face. Pes accessorius (Lat. pes, a foot, and accessio, I add to). A swellino- at the junction of the posterior and middle horns of the lateral ventricles. Pes hippocampi (Lat. pes, a foot, and hippocampus). The termination or foot of the hippocampus major. Petrous (Gk. wirpa, a rock). The term applied to the hardest portion of the temporal bone. Petrosal. Peter's _ patches. The groups of lymphoid nodules in the small in- testine. Phalanx (Gk. ^d\ay^, a rank of soldiers). A term applied to the bones of the fingers and toes, from their regularity.