631 REFRACTING MEDIA. The refracting media of the eye are the aqueous and vitreous humours, and the lens; but in conjunction with these we shall also describe the suspensory ligament and capsule of the lens. The aqueous humour fills up the space between the cornea and the capsule of the lens with its suspensory ligament; it is a weakly albuminous fluid, with an alkaline reaction, and a specific gravity very little greater than that of water. The anterior chamber is the space intervening between the cornea in front, and the iris and pupil behind. The posterior chamber was formerly described as the space between the posterior surface of the iris and pupil in front, and the ciliary processes, suspensory ligament, and lens behind,—but it is now known that the iris at the edge of the pupil is m absolute Fig. 367.—Section through yellow spot of the retina, a. Layer of modified cones. b. Kxternal limiting layer, c. Outer gi-auular layer, d. Outer molecular layer. e. Inner granular layer. /. Layer of nerve cells, g. Layer of nerve fibres, and in- ternal limiting layer. contact with the capsule of the lens, so that the term must be restricted to the triangular interval existing between the ciliary processes, suspensory ligament, and iris, at the attached margin of the latter. The vitreous humour forms the principal bulk of the globe of the eye, and supports the delicate retina internally. It is a trans- parent and highly albuminous substance, enclosed in a delicate homo- geneous membrane, the hyaloid membrane. Hannover supposed that septa of the hyaloid membrane also formed cavities for the con- tained fluid, but microscopic examination has shown that such is not the case in the adult, though there undoubtedly are fibres in the centre of the vitreous in the foetus. Scattered through its substance are a number of corpuscles of various shapes and sizes, many ex- hibiting amoeboid movements, and near the periphery stellate and spindle-shaped cells have been described. The centre of the vitreous is traversed by a minute canal (canal of Stilling) extending from