468 AZYGOS VEINS. veins, in the centre of each hjbule ; the.«e pom- their l)]ood' mUi larger vessels, the suhlohular veins; and the sublobulai- veins con- stitute, by their convergence and union, the hepatic trunkn, which terminate in the inferior vena cava. AZYGOS VEINS. The azygos veins (Fig. 282) form a system of comnuniication be- tween the superior and inferior vena cava, and serve to return the blood from that part of the trunk of the body in which those vessel.^ are deficient, on account of their connection with the heart. This system consists of four sets of vessels, namely— Vena azygos major. Vena azygos minor superior, Vena azygos minor inferior. Intercostal veins. The vena azygos major commences in the lumbar region as a continuation of the ascending lumbar vein; sometimes it is joined by a branch directly from the inferior vena cava, or by one from the renal vein. It j^asses through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, lying on the right side of the thoracic duct and aorta, and ascends along the right side of the vertebral column to the third dorsal A'ertebra, where it arches forwards over the right bi-onchus, and ter- minates in the superior vena cava. It receives all the intercostal veins of the right side with the exception of those of the lii'st space, the vena azygos minor superior and inferior, some uisophageal A'eins, and right bronchial A'ein. The vena azygos minor superior is formed by the union of tlie intercostal veins of the left side fi'om the fourth to the eighth ; it communicates with the left supeiior intercostal vein, and crosses the body of. the eighth dorsal vertebra behind the. aorta to empty into the vena azygos major. The vena azygos minor inferior commences in the luml)ar region, on the left side, as the ascending lumbar vein, or by a conmiunication witli the renal vein. It enters the chest through the left crus of the diaphragm and ascends the left side of the vertebral column, crosses the ninth doi'sal vertebra and opens into the vena azygos major. It receives the three lowei' intercostal veins of the left side and some Ijranches from the mediastinum. The azygos veins have no valves. The intercostal veins vary somewhat in their arrangement, but the following seems to be the most common disposition :—On the right side, the vein of the first space joins the right innominate vein, or the termination of the vertebral; the veins of the second and third, or second, third, and fourth spaces, form a common trunk which terminates in the vena azygos major as it winds round the root of the lung ; the veins of the remaining spaces empty directly into the vena azygos major. On the left side, the vein from the first space accompanies the superior intercostal artery, and empties into