762 KIDNEYS. Fro. the latter the lumen is distinct, and the cells form a flattened la> .•> thickened hei'e and there by the presence of nuclei; in the fori'm i' the cells appro.xiinate in ^ character to those of tlic convoluted tulies, un'l although the whole tiihu is wider than the de- scending limb the luiiu ii is much narrower. In the spiral tube of Schachowa the lining cells are columnai', are firndy united by inter- locking processes, and have the part next tlie basement membrane apparently composed nf A'ertical rods; towards its termination, howeveT, the cells become shorter, less tibrillated, and split into ridges with furro\\-s between. The first con- voluted tube has an epi- thelium which corre- sponds in all essentials with that of the spiral tube. The neck of tlie Malpigliian capsule is lined with cubical epithelium, and in maii\' animals this is furnished with cilia ; but in the human kidney thev have not up to the present been demonstrated. The Malpighian bodies are found only in the cortical substanic of the kidney, and form the most distinctive feature of the structni e of the organ. Two vessels are connected with each Malpighian body, one entering it, afferent vessel, and the other leaving it, efferent vessel; the glomerulus and its vessels resemble in appearance fruif supported on its stalk. The capsiile is lined liy a flattened epithe- lium, which may also be traced on to the surface of the glomerulus, being most distinct in the latter situation where the caj^sule opens into the first convoluted tube. The epithelial cells in the capsnle are supported by a basement membrane formed of flattened epitlie- lial cells. Blood-vessels.—The renal artery, derived from the aorta, enleis the kidney between the vein and ureter, and di^•ides into four or tiM^ large trunks which pass between the papillae to entei- that portion of the cortical substance placed between the pyramids of the medulla ; here they divide and subdivide, and give oil" small branches, wliii'h communicate across the bases of the pyramids so as to form imper- fect arches between the cortical and medullary substance. From 468.—Epithelium of the ui-iniferous tubules. From ascending limb of looped tubule of Heule. From spiral tubule. 3. From collecting tubule. Froaa convoluted tubule. 5. From irregul;ir tubule.