OS INNOMINATUM. 154 ili um, ischium, und pubes. The ilium is the superior, broad, and expanded portion wliich forms tlie prominence of the hip, and arti- culates with the sacrum. Tlie ischium is the inferior and strong part of the bone on which the body rests in sitting. The pubes is that portion which forms the front of the pelvis, and gives support to the external organs of generation. The Ilium may be described as divisible into an internal and external surface, a crest, and an anterioi' and posterior border. The internal surface is bounded above by the crest, l^elow by a i^rominent line, the pectineal line, and before and behind by the anterior and posterior border. It is concave and smooth for the anterior two-thirds of its extent, and lodges the iliacus muscle. The posterior third is rough, for articulation with the sacrum, and divided by a deep groove into two ])arts ; an anterior or auricular Fig. 137.—Os iiinominatum of the right side. i. Ilium; its external surface. 2. Ischium. 3. Pubes. 4. Crest of the ilium. The * is situated upon the widest portion of the crest of the ilium. 5. Middle curved line. 6. Inferior curved line. 7. Burlace for the gluteus raaximus, and superior curved line. 8. Anterior superior spinous pi-ocess. 9. Anterior inferior spinous process. 10. Posterior superior spinous process. 11. Posterior infe- rior spinous process. 12. Spine of the ischium. 13. Great sacro-ischiatic notch. 14. Les- ser sacro-ischiatic notch. 15. Tuberosity of the ischium, showing its tliree facets. 16. Ramus of the ischium. 17. Superior ramus of the pubes. 18. Inferiorramus of the pubes. portion, shaped like the pinna of the ear, and coated by cartilage m the fresh bone ; and a posterior portion, very rough and uneven, for the attachment of the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. The external surface {dorsum of the ilium) is uneven, partly convex, and partly concave : it is bounded above by the crest; below by a prominent arch, which forms the upper margin of the acetabulum ; and, before and behind, by the anterior and posterior border. At the posterior part, a rough line marks off a triangular area which gives attachment to the gluteus maximus ; the line is continued anteriorly into the outer lip of the crest, and is called the superior or posterior curved line. Near the middle of this surface is a second ridge which is called the middle curved line; it commences at about an inch and a half from the anterior extremity of tlie cre.sl, and terminates in the upper part of the greater sacro-ischiatic notch.