MEDULLA OBLONGATA. matter into the grey matter of the anterior cornu, which they enter in several bundles. Their fibres maybe traced to (i) the antero- external grovip of cells, (2) the lateral white cohimns, (3) the posterior cornu, (4) the anterior part of the commissure, and (5) the antero-internal grouj) of cells (J. E. Whitaker). The posterior roots enter the cord in two distinct bundles— external and internal. The fibres of the outer bundle can be traced to (i) the nerve-cells of the■ posterior horn, (2) the anterior horn, and (3) the posterior part of the commissure. The fibres of the inner bundle do not pass directly into the grey matter, but enter the white substance of the postero-external column, and from thence pass into the grey centre ; they have been traced to (i) the antero- external cells of the anterior horn, (2) the cells of the posterior vesicular column, and (3) the posterior part of the commissure (J. E. Whitaker). THE ENCEPHALON. The encej)halon, or that j)art of the cerebro-spinal centre contained within the cranium, consists of the medulla oblongata, pons Varolii, cerebrum, and cerebellum. The whole mass weighs on an average about fifty ounces for the male, and forty-four and a half for tlie female. MEDULLA OBLONGATA. The medulla oblongata is the upper enlarged portion of the spinal cord. It is oblique in its position, its upper surface looking upwards and backwards, and its lower downwards and forwards ; the former constitutes the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle, the latter lies on the basilar portion of the occipital bone. Its upper or posterior part is lodged in the vallecula of the cerebellum. It is somewhat conical in shape, and a little more than an inch in length, extending from the pons Varolii to a point corresponding with the upper border of the atlas. The anterior and posterior median fissures of the cord are continued into the medulla, and the former terminates at the lower edge of the pons in a smaU recess called the foramen ccecum of Vicq d'Azyr. The posterior fissure expands about tlie middle of the medulla into a diamond-shaped cavity, the fourth ventricle, the presence of which causes the back of the medulla to be flattened. The anterior median fissure is interrupted at its lower part by the crossing of nerve-filjres between the two halves of the medulla, this being known as the decussation of the pyramids; this inter- change consists m the mass of fibres from the lateral column ot the one side passing to the anterior pyramid of the other side {crossed pyramidal tract). The upper part of the meduUa on its anterior aspect is distin- guished by an oval prominence at each side called the olivary body ; this is about half an inch in lengtli, and extends to the inferior border of the pons.