BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 402 The posterior cerebral arteries, the other two terminal branches of tlie basilar, wind around the cms cerebri at each side, and are distril)uted to the posterior lobes of tlie cerebrum. Tliey are sepa- rated from the superior cerebellar arteries near their origin, by the third pair of nerves, and are in close relation with the lourth paii- in their course around the crura cerebri. Anteriorly, near tlieii- origin, they give oft' a tuft of small medullary vessels which enter the locus perforatus to supply the optic thalamus and corpora quad- rigeinina. They I'eceive the posterior communicating arteries from the internal carotid, and send a branch called posterior clwroid, to the velum interpositum and choroid plexus. The communications established between the anterior cerebral arteries in front, and the internal carotids and jjosterior cerebi'al arteries behind, by the communicating arteries, constitute the circle of Willis. This remarkable vascular communication at the Ijase of the brain is formed l)y the anterior communicating branch, anterior cerebrals, and internal carotid arteries in front, and by the posterioi' communicating, posterior cerebrals, and basilar artery behind. A more full description of the arteries of the brain will l^e found in Part VI. The INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY arises from the under side of the subclavian, and })asses down behind the subclavian vein to the cartilage of the first rib. It then descends by the side of the sternum, resting on the cartilages of the ribs, to the level of the sixth intercostal space, where it divides into two terminal branches, superior epigastric and musciilo-phrenic. At its origin the artery is covered by the internal jugular and subclavian veins, and as it enters the chest it is crossed by the phrenic nerve ; it then gets under cover of the pleura, and lower down lies between the triangularis sterni and internal intercostal muscles. The branches of the internal mammary are— Comes nervi phrenici, Anterior intercostal. Mediastinal, Perforating, Pericardiac, Musculo-phrenic, _ Thymic, Superior epigastric. The comes nervi phrenici, a long and slender branch given oft" by the artery as it enters the chest, descends with the phrenic nerve between the pleura and pericardium to the diaphragm, to which it is distributed, inosculating with the musculo-phrenic and abdominal phrenic arteries. The mediastinal, pericardiac, and thymic branches are small vessels distributed to the anterior mediastinum, pericardium, and thymus gland. Some sternal branches are sent to supply the ster- num and triangularis sterni muscle. The anterior intercostals supply the intercostal muscles of the front of the chest, and inosculate with the aortic intercostals ; to each space there are two arteries which either arise separately or