VAGUS NERVE. 555 Second cervical nerve looping with first. 15. Pharyngeal plexus on inferior con- strictor. 16. Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 17. Superior cardiac nerve of pueumogastric. 18. Third cervical nerve. 19. Thyroid body. 20. Fourth cervical nerve. 21, 21. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 22. Spinal accessory communi- cating with cervical nerves. 23. Trachea. 24. Middle cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 25. Middle cardiac nerve of pneuiuogastric. 26. Phrenic nerve (cut). 27. Left carotid artery. 28. Brachial plexus. 29. Phrenic nerve (cut). 30. Inferior cervical ganghon of sympathetic. 31. Pulmonary plexus of pneumognstric. 32. Thoracic aorta. 33. CEsophageal plexus. 34. Vena azygos minor superior. 35. Vena azygos minor inferior. 36. Gangliated cord of sympathetic. tube : tliose of communication join tlie carotid plexus in the carotid canal, tlie petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve (great petrosal nerve), and lesser petrosal nerve. The carotid branches are several filaments which follow the trunk of the internal carotid artery, and communicate with the nervi molles of the sympathetic and pharyngeal branch of the pueumogastric. _ The muscular branch divides into filaments, which are distri-1* buted to the stylo-pharyngeus, and constrictor muscles. ■> .'JrC?)^ The pharyngeal branches are two or three filaments which are distributed to the pharynx and unite with the pharyngeal branches of the pueumogastric, external laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves to form the pharyngeal plexus. The tonsillitic branches proceed from the glosso-pharyngeal ■nerve, near its termination; they form a plexus (circukis tonsil- laris) around the base of the tonsil, from which numerous filaments are given ofl^ to the mucous membrane of the fauces and soft palate. These filaments communicate with the descefnding palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion. The lingual branches enter the substance of the tongue beneath the hyo-glossus and stylo-glossus muscle, and are distributed to the mucous membrane of the side and base of the tongue, and to tlie epiglottis and fauces. TENTH NERVE. The pneumogastric or vagus nerve is the nerve of the re- spiratory organs and upper part of the alimentary canal, supplying liranches to the larynx, trachea, lungs, pharynx, oesophagus, and stomach, and also giving branches to the heart. It arises by ten or fifteen filaments from the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, immediately below the glosso-pharyngeal, and passes out of tlie skull through the inner extremity of the jugular foramen, enclosed in a sheath of dura mater common to it and the spinal accessory. The nerve then takes its course down the side of the neck, lying at first between the internal jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and lower down behind and between that vein and the common carotid artery and enclosed in the same sheath. At the root of the neck the course of the nerve on the two sides is diff'erent. The right nerve enters the chest by passing between the subclavian artery and vein, and descends by the side of the trachea to the pos- terior part of the root of the right lung ; it then proceeds as a double cord along the posterior aspect of the oesophagus to the corresponding