COMMON ILIAC ARTEKIES. 427 Varieties in the Branclies of the Abdominal Aorta.—The phrenic arteries are very rarely both derived from the aorta. One or both may be branches of the cceliac axis ; one may proceed from the gastric artery, from the renal, or from the upper lumbar. There are occasionally'three or more phrenic arteries. The coeliac axis is variable in length, and gives off its branches irregularly. _ There are sometimes two or even three hepatic arteries, one of which may be derived from the gastric or from the superior mesenteric. The colica media is sometimes derived from the hepatic artery. The spermatic arteries are variable both in origin and number. The right spermatic may be a branch of the renal; the left, of the in- ferior mesenteric. The supra-renal arteries may be derived from the phrenic or renal arteries. COMMON ILIAC ARTERIES. The abdominal aorta divides opposite the fourth lumbar vertebra (or the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth) into the two common iliac arteries. Sometimes the bifurcation takes place as high as the third, and occasionally as low as the fifth. The common iliac arteries are about two inches in length ; they diverge from the termination of the aorta, and pass downwards and outwards at each side to the margin of the pelvis, opposite the sacro-iliac sym- physis, where they divide into the internal and external iliac. In old persons the common iliac arteries are more or less dilated and curved in their course. The right artery is somewhat longer than the left, and forms a more obtuse angle with the termination of the aorta ; the angle of bifurcation is greater in the female than in the male. Relations.—The relations of the two arteries are different at the two sides of the body. The right common iliac is in relation in front with the peritoneum, small intestines and sympathetic nerves, and is crossed at its bifurcation by the ureter. It is in relation behind with the two common iliac veins and last lumbar vertebra, and externally with the psoas magnus, vena cava, and right common iliac vein. The left is in relation in front with the peritoneum and sympathetic nerves, and is crossed by the rectum and superior hsemorrhoidal artery, and, at its bifurcation, by the ureter. It is in relation behind with the left common iliac vein and last lumbar vertebra, and externallv with the psoas magnus. The INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY is a short trunk, varying in length from an incli to two inches. It descends obliquely forwards to a point opposite the upper margin of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, where it divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk. In the fcetus, the internal iliac artery, under the name of hypogastric or umbilical, is continued onwards by the side of the upper part of the bladder to near its apex, whence it ascends by the side of the linea alba and urachus to the umbilicus, where it becomes the true um- bilical artery. After birth, this artery ceases to be pervious beyond