UKETHEA. 775 Cowper's glands, prostate gland, vasa deferentia, and yesiculte seniinales. It is provided with a stratified squamous epithelium corresponding with that of the bladder, and has opening on to its surface numerous mucous recesses or crypts, and the ducts of the glands lying in the submucous tissue. The submucous coat is loose, and contains a convoluted vascular structure resembling erec- tile tissue ; it also contains numei'ous racemose mucous glands, which 21 Fig. 477.—Longitudinal section of the bladder, prostate gland, and penis, showing the urethra, i. Urachus. 2. Recto-vesical fold of peritoneum. 3. Opening of the right ureter. 4. A slight ridge, formed by the muscle of the ureter, and ex- tending from the tei'miuation of the ureter to the commencement of the urethra. This ridge forms the lateral boundary of the trigonum vesicte. 5. Coinmencement of the urethra; the elevation of mucous membrane immediately below the figure is the uvula vesicas. The constriction of the bladder at this point is the neck of the bladder. 6. Prostatic portion of the urethra. 7. Prostate gland; the differ- ence of thickness of the gland above and below the urethra is shown. 8. Isthmus, or third lobe of the prostate, immediately beneath which the ejaculatory duct is seen passing. 9. Right vesicula seminalis ; the vas deferens is seen to be cut short off, close to its junction with the ejaculatory duct. 10. Membranous portion of the urethra. 11. Cowper's gland of the right side, with its duct. 12. Bulbous portion of the urethra ; throughout the wliole length of the urethra of the corpus spongiosum numerous lacunaj are seen. 13. Fossa navicularis. 14. Corpus eaver- nosum, cut somewhat obliquely to the right side, near its lower part. 15. Right cms peni.s. 16. Near the upper part of the corpus cavernosum, the section has fallen a little to the left of the middle line ; a portion of the septum pectiniforme is consequently seen. This figure also indicates the thickness of the fibrous in- vestment of the corpus cavernosum, and its abrupt termination at the base of (17) the glans penis. 18. Lower sesrment of the glans. 19. Meatus urinai-ius. 20. Corpus spongiosum. 21. Bulb of the corpus spongiosum. open on the surface of the mucous membrane {glands of Liitre). The glands are mo.st abundant along the floor of the urethra, espe- cially in the bulbous portion. The muscular coat consists of unstriped muscular fibres, the outer layer of wliich is arranged circularly and is continuous with the circular muscular layer of the bladder ; the inner layer is longitudinal. The urethra is about eight inches in length, and divided into a prostatic, membranous, and spongij portion.