REGIONS OF THE SKULL. 124 cavernous sinus, and orbital nerves; and farther outwards the lollowing foramina, from before backwards : Hphenoidcd fissure (fora- men lacerum anterius) for the transmission of tlie tliird, fourth, three branches of the ophthahuic division of the fifth, and the sixtli nerve, and ophthalmic vein ; foramen rotundum, for the superior maxillary nerve ; foramen ovale, for the inferior maxillary nerve, lesser meningeal artery, and lesser petrosal nerve; foramen Vesalii for a small vein ; foramen spinosum., for the middle meningeal artery ; foramen lacerum basis cranii (foramen lacerum medium), which is, in the recent state, closed in by fibrous tissue below, and is crossed by the internal carotid artery, carotid plexus, and petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve. On the anterior surface of tlie petrous portion of the temporal bone is a groove, leading to a fissured open- "iG. 119.—Cerebral surface of the base of the skull. I. One side of the anterior fossa; the figure is placed on tlie roof of the orbit, formed by the orbital plate of the frontal boue. 2. Lesser wing of the sphenoid. 3, Crista galli. 4. Foramen caecum. 5. Cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 6. Olivary process. 7. Optic fora- men. 8. Anterior clinoid process, g. Carotid groove for the internal carotid artery and cavernous sinus. 10, II, 12. Middle fossa. 10 marks the gi-eat wing of the sphenoid. 11. Squamous portion of the temporal bone. 12. Petrous portion. 13. Sella turcica. 14. Basilar portion of the sphenoid and occipital bone. The uneven ridge between Nos. 13, 14, is the dorsum selte, and the pro- minent angles of this ridge tlie posterior clinoid processes. 15. Fora- men rotundum. 16. Foramen ovale. 17. Foramen spinosum; the small Irregular opening between 17 and 12 is the hiatus Fallopii. 18. Posterior fossa, ig, 19. Groove for the lateral sinu.s. 20. Ridge which gives attach- ment to the falx cerebelli. 21. Foramen magnum. 22. Meatus auditorius interuus. 23. Jugular foramen. iug, the hiatus Fallo])ii, for the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve ; and immediately beneath this a smaller foramen, for the lessei' petrosal nerve. Towards the apex of the petrous portion is the notch for the fifth nerve, and below it a slight depression for the Gasserian ganglion. Farther outwards is the eminence which marks the position of the perpendicular semi-circular canal. Proceeding from the foramen spinosum are two groo^'es, which indicate the course of the trunks of tlie middle meningeal artery. The whole fossa lodges the temporo-sphenoidal lobes of the cerebrum. The fosterior fossa, larger than the other two, is formed by the occipital bone, petrous and mastoid portion of the temporals, and by a small part of the sphenoid and parietals. It is bounded in front by the uppei' border of the petrous portion and dorsum sella?, and