6ro SYMPATHETIC NERVES. PELVIC PLEXUSES. The inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus on each side is placed in the lower part of the pelvic cavity, at the side of the rectum and bladder, extending in the female to the side of the vagina also. TIjc nerve filaments are derived from the hypogastric plexus ; they form frequent communications, and small ganglia are situated at the point- of intersection ; additional filaments are derived from the second, third, and fourth sacral nerves, and from the two upper sacral sym- j)athetic ganglia. The plexus gives off branches to all the pelvic viscera, which follow the distribution of the internal iliac artery, and receive the same names as the branches of that vessel wliicli they accompany. The nerves distributed to the bladder and vagina contain more nerve filaments derived from spinal nerves than tlic other branches of the plexus. The hsemorrhoidal plexus arises from the back of the pelvic plexus, and passes to the rectum, where it communicates with the superior hsemorrhoidal branches of the inferior mesenteric plexus. The vesical plexus comes from the front of the pelvic plexus. The nerves at first accompany the vesical arteries, but afterwards leave them, and penetrate the muscular coat to reach the mucous membrane. They are chiefly distributed to the base and sides ol' the bladder, and form secondary plexuses on the vasa defereutia and vesicnlfB seminales. The prostatic plexus is given off by the lower part of the pehdc plexus. It consists of nerves of considerable size, which are dis- tributed to the prostate gland, vesiculse seminales, and penis ; those passing to the latter organ are named cavernous nerves, being dis- tributed to the corpus cavernosum. The vaginal plexus, derived from the lower part of the pelvic plexus, is distributed to the mucous membrane and erectile tissue of the vagina. The uterine plexus, given oft' by the upper part of the pelvic plexus, accompanies the branches of the uterine artery, between the layers of the broad ligament, to the side of the uterus. The nerves are for the most part distributed to the mucous membrane of the lower part of the body and cervix, several large ganglia being found in the plexus by the side of the cervix ; other branches pass to the mnscidar coat, penetrating as far as the fundus. SACRAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The sacral ganglia are four or five in number at each side. They are situated on the sacrum, close to the anterior sacral foramina, and resemble the lumbar ganglia in form and mode of connection, although much smaller in size. 1 The external or communicating branches are two from each | ganglion, which pass outwards to communicate with, the anterior j sacral nerves and with the coccygeal nerve.