TESTICLES. 779 genital braiicli of the genito-crural nerve, and tlie inguinal branch of the ilio-inguinal. The vas deferens, the excretory duct of the testicle, is situated along the posterior border of the cord, where it may be distin- . guislied by the hard and cordy sensation which it communicates to the fingers. It is about a line or a line and a half in thickness ; its parietes are thick and tough, and its canal from one-fourth to one-third the diameter of the entire duct. In structure it is com- posed of three coats—an external or fibrous coat, Avhich is thin; a middle or muscular coat, which is reinarkable for its thickness, and consists of three layers of smooth muscular fibre, namely, ex- ternal longitudinal, middle circular, and internal longitudinal; and an internal or mucous coat, the mucous membrane being -pale in colour, disposed in longitudinal pleats, and coated with a columnar epithelium, composed of cells containing yellowish pigment granules. In the dilated portion, near its termination (amiJuUa), it presents a reticular appearance, like that of the vesiculte seminales. The coverings of the spermatic cord are—the spermatic fascia, cremaster muscle, and fascia propria. The spermatic fascia is a j)rolongation of the intercolumnar fascia, deriA'ed from the borders of the external abdominal ring during the descent of the testicle in the foetus. The cremasteric covering, erythroid, is the thin mus- cular expansion formed by the spreading out of the fibres of the cremaster, which is likewise carried down by the testicle during its descent. The fascia propria is a continuation of the infundibuliform process from the transversalis fascia, which immediately invests the vessels of the cord, and is also obtained during the descent of the testicle. The TESTICLE is a small oblong and rounded gland, about an inch and a half in length, somewliat comj)ressed at the sides and behind, and suspended in the cavity of the scrotum by the spermatic cord. Its position in the scrotum is oblique, so that the upper extremity is directed upwards and forwards, and a little outwards ; the lower, downwards and backwards, and a little inwards ; the convex border looks forwards and downwards, and the flattened border to which the cord is attached, backwards and ujnvards. Lying against its outer and posterior border is a flattened body which follows the course of the testicle, and extends from its upper to its lower ex- tremity ; this body is named, from its relation to the testis, epi- did37inis (eVt, upon ; St'Su/xo?, the testicle); it is divided into a central part or body, an upper extremity, head or globus major, and a lower extreinity, tail or globus minor. The globus major is situated against the upper end of the testicle, to which it is closely adherent; the globus minor is placed at its lower end, is attached to the testicle by areolar tissue, and curves upwards, to become continuous with the vas deferens. Tlie testicle is invested by three tunics—tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica" vasculosa, and is connected to the inner surface of the dartos by a large quantity of extremely loose areolar tissue,