722 (ESOPHAGUS. (ESOPHAGUS. The'a>sopliagus (o'Uiv, to bear ; (f^dyav, to eat) is a sliglitly flexiious canal, inclining to the left in the neck, to the right in tlie upi)er part of the thorax, and again to the left in its course through the posterior mediastinum ; it commences at the termination of the pharynx, opposite the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and upper border of the sixth cervical vertebra, and descends the neck, behind and rather to the left of the trachea. It then passes behind the arch of the aorta and left bronchus, and along the posterior mediastinum, lying in front of the thoracic aorta ; at the lower part of the thorax it lies slightly to the left of the aorta, and passing through the oesophageal opening in the diapliragm enters the al)- domen, and terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach opposite the lower border of the tenth dorsal vertebra. As it follows the curves of the verteljral column, it presents in its upper part an antero-pos- terior ilex are. It is about nine or ten inches in length, is narrowest at its com- mencement, and is also slightly constricted where it passes through the dia- phragm. In the relaxed condition its mucous mem- brane assumes the condi- tion of longitudinal folds, which lie in contact Antli each other; when dis- tended the folds disappear. Fio. 432.-Transverse section of cesopbagus. «. ^. KelatloilS. — 5e/mirf, it Outer fibrous covering, b. Longitudinal mus- lies upon the lOllgUS COlll cular fibres, c. Circular m-ascular fibres, d. niuscles and vertebral Submucous coat. e. Musculans mucosa. • , .i^. nn'rlrllp nf Mucous membrane, g. Stratified epithelium, column. 111 the miClClle 01 h. Racemose gland, i. Section of an artery. the tliorax upoil the thora- cic duct, and at the lower part upon the thoracic aorta. In front, i has the trachea, left bronchus, and pericardium. At the sides, the recurrent laryngeal nerves, carotid sheaths, thyroid body, and 2ileura .sacs. As it deviates to the left in the lower part of the neck, it li more intimate relation with the left carotid sheath than Avith the right. The vagus nerves lie at first on each side of the asophagup, but they form a plexus around it (plexus guise), and the left nerve