AETERIES. 43 ARTERIES. Tlie arteries are tlie cylindrical tul)e.s which convey the blood from the ventricles of the heart to every part of the body. They are dense in structure, and preserve for the most part the cylindrical form when eni];)tied of their l)lood, which is their condition after death : hence they were considered by the ancients as the vessels for the transmission of the vital spirits, and were therefore named arteries (drjp Trjpeiv, to contain air). The whole of the arteries of the systemic circulation proceed from a single trunk, named the aorta, from which they are given off as branches, and divide and subdiAdde to their ultimate ramifications, constituting the great arterial tree which pervades by its minute .subdivisions every part of the animal frame. From the aorta the branches for the most part pass off at i-ight angles, as if for the purpose of checking the impetus with which tlie blood would other- wise rush along their cylinders from the main trunk ; but in the linilis a very different arrangement exists ; the branches are given off from the principal artery at an acute angle, so that no impedi- ment may be offered to the free circulation of the blood. The division of arterie^i is usually dichotonious, as of the aorta into the I wo common iliacs, common carotid into the external and internal, ^^c. ; but in some few instances a short trunk divides suddenly into several l)ranches which proceed in different directions : this mode of division is termed axis, as the thyroid and cocliac axis. In the division of an artery into two branches, it is observed that the combined ai'ea of the two branches is somewhat greater than that of the single trunk ; and if the combined area of all the bi'aiiclies at the periphery of the body were compared with that of the aorta, it would l)e seen that the blood, in passing from the aorta into the numerous distributing Ijranches, was flowing through a conical space, of Avhicli the apex might be represented by the aorta, and the base by the surface of the body. The advantage of this jn-ovision in facilitating the circulation is sufliciently oljAdous ; for the increased channel Avhicli is thus provided for the current of the blood, serves to compensate for the retarding influence of friction, resulting from the distance of the heart and the division of the vessels. The main arteries of the limbs run on the flexor aspect, as they are in that situation less liable to external injury or to over-stretching in tlie luoveuient of the joints, than if placed on the extensor aspect. Communications between arteries are free and numerous, and increase in frequency with the diminution in size of the branches ; so that, through the medium of the minute ramifications, the entire body may be considered as one uninterrupted circle of inosculations or anastomoses {dva, between, o-ro/za, mouth). This increase in the frequency of anastomosis in tlie smaller branches is a provision for counteracting the greater liability to impediment existing in them