TRIANGLES OF THE NECK. 251 the shoulder of the same side, and carry the face towards the oppo- site side. If the head be fixed, they can raise the sternum in forced insj^iration. Regional Anatomy of the Neck, The region of the neck is divided into two great tiiangles by the sterno-mastoid muscle. The posterior triangle is bovmded by the posterior border of the muscle, by the claAdcle, and by the anterior edge of the trapezius. The anterior triangle is bounded by the anterior Ijorder of the sterno-mastoid, by the lower border of the inferior inaxilla, and a line drawn from the angle of this bone to the mastoid process, and by the mesial line. The posterior triangle is subdivided into two by the scapular belly of the omo-hyoid muscle. The posterior superior triangle (occi- pital triangle) is bounded by the posterior border of the sterno-mas- toid, the anterior edge of the trapezius, and the posterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed from above downwards by the splenius capitis, levator anguli scapulce, scalenus posticus, scalemis medius, and upper digitation of the serratus magnus muscles. It contains the superficial descending branches of the cervical plexus, the spinal accessory ner\^e, the transversalis colli artery and vein, the super- ficialis colli artery, and the cervical lymphatics and glands. The posterior inferior or subclavian triangle is bounded by the clavicle, the posterior Ijelly of the omo-hyoid, and the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. This triangle contains the third part of the subclavian artery, above and behind which are the trunks of the brachial plexus ; below, and in front of it, almost overlapped by the clavicle, the subclavian vein, in close proximity to which, behind the clavicle, is the suprascapular artery, both of which vessels, although not strictly in the triangle, are apt to invade it as soon as the fascia is divided in the operation for ligature of the subclavian. The external jugular vein terminates in the sub- clavian \ein aljout the middle of this space; near its termination it receives the transversalis colli and suprascapular veins. This triangle also contains a small nerve to the subclavius, muscle and a lymphatic gland. The anterior triangle has been divided into three—the inferior carotid, the superior carotid, and the submaxillary. The inferior carotid triangle is bounded by the mesial line, the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid. Its floor is formed by the longus colli muscle and vertebral column, and its roof by the integument, superficial fascia, platysma myoides, and deep cervical fascia. It contains the sterno- hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, common carotid artery, internal .jugular vein, inferior thyroid arterv, superior thyroid artery, thyroid body, lower part of larynx, trachea, lower part of pharvnx,' a'so- phagus, recurrent laryngeal nerve, descendens and conimunicans ceryicis nerves, sympatlietic nerves, inferior thyroid veins, and one or two lymphatic glands.