VAGUS NEEVE. 557 of the trunk, and crosses behind the internal carotid artery to the upper border of the middle constrictor, nijon which it forms the pharyngeal plexus assisted by branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, suj)erior laryngeal, and sympathetic. One small branch, called, the Ungual branch of the vagus, is derived from the pharyngeal branches of this nerve and the glosso-pharyn- geal ; it joins the hypo- glossal nerve, as that trunk winds round the occipital artery, and is distributed with it. Tlie pharyngeal plexus is distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. The superior laryn- geal nerve arises from the ganglion of the trunk, and descends behind the internal carotid artery to the opening in the thyro- hyoid membrane, through which it j^asses with the superior lar- yngeal artery, and is distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx, communi- cating with the inferior laryngeal nerve. Be- liind the internal caro- tid it gives off the external laryngeal branch, which sends a twig to the pharyngeal plexus, and then de- scends to supply the inferior constrictor, ci'ico - thyroid muscle and thyroid gland. This branch communicates inferiorly with Uie superior cardiac nerve and superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Fig. 328. — Origin and distribution of the glosso-pharyn- geal, pneumogas- tric, and spinal accessory nerves. I, 3, 4. Medulla oblongata, i. An- terior pyramid. 2. Pons Varolii. 3. Olivary body. 4. Kestifoim body. 5. Facial nerve. 6. Origin of the glosso-pharyngeal. 7. Ganglion of An- dersch. 8. Trunk of the nerve. 9. Spinal accessory nerve. 10. Gan- glion of the root of the pneumogas- tric. II. Ganglion of the trunk. 12. Trunk. 13. Pha- ryngeal branch forming the pha- ryngeal plexus (14) assisted by a branch from the glosso - pharyngeal (8), and one from the superior laryn- geal nerve (15). 16. Cardiac branches. 17. Recurrent la- ryngeal branch. 18. Anterior pul- monary and car- diac branches, ig. Posterior pulmo- nary branches. 20. CEsophageal plex- us. 21. Gastric branches. 22. Oii- giu of the spi n al ac- cessory nerve. 23. Branch to the ster- no-mastoid mus- cle. 24. Branches to the trape^iius.