STRUCTUEE OF THE BLADDER. 767 prostate gland and-ascend upon the anterior surface of tlie bladder to tlie fundus, where they are inserted into the subserous tissue, some being continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the posterior surface of the organ, and others prolonged upon tlie urachus. The longitudinal fasciculi of the posterior surface and sides of the l)ladder, attached superiorly to the subserous tissue, and partly continuous with those of the opposite aspect, while some are prolonged upon the urachus, are attached inferiorly to the prostate gland, those in the middle line being lost in the deep muscular layer of the neck of the bladder. The middle layer consists of circular fibres which are mo.st numerous at the cervix, where they form a moderately thick stratum, the sphincter vesicae, and are then continued onwards around the prostatic urethra. The internal layer ("submucous layer ; Ellis), thinner than the ]H-eceding, is composed of fibres which are oblicpie and scattered in the fundus and body of the bladder, but become longitudinal in its lower part and base, and are continued into the urethra. At the base of the bladder this layer is strength- ened b)^ the longitudinal fibres of the ureters. The three muscular layers comuiunicate ■with each other by means of a frequent inter- change of fasciculi. The areolar or submucous coat is the thick layer of areolar tissue interposed between the nuicous and nuiscular coat, and form- ing the bond of union betw^een them. The mucous coat is thick and smooth, of a pale-rose colour, and exactly moulded on the muscular coat, to which it is loosely con- nected by the subnmcous coat. When the l)ladder is empty it is thrown into folds or rnija;, excepting in the triangular ai-ea at the neck called the trigone. The mucous membrane is continiious through the ureters with the lining membrane of the pelvis of the kidney, and through the urethra with that of the seminiferous ducts, prostate gland, and Cowper's glands. It is provided with a stratified e|)ithelium similar to that of the ureters, the deeper cells of which are conical or fusiform ; the intermediate pyriforiu, and the superficial s^jheroidal or flattened, and of unequal size. It has a thin layer of nuiscularis mucosaj on its outer surface. The mucous membrane is rich in vessels, which are most abundant, as are the nerves, in the cervix and fundus ; the nerves are not numerous. On the internal surface of the base of the bladder is a triangular smootli plane, the trigonum vesicas or vesical trigone (Fig. 474), on which the mucous membrane is paler and thinner than the rest, and is not thrown into folds when the viscus is emi)ty. Calculi resting on this part give rise to nuich sufi'ering on account of the greater number of nerves distributed to the cervix vesica}. The tiigone is bounded at each side by the raised ridge, cori-esponding with the muscles of tlie ureters, at each ])osterior angle by the openings of the ureters, and, in front, by a slight elevation of tlie mucous membrane at the entrance of the urethra, called uvula vesica;. The external surface of the base of the bladder correspondin"- with the trigone is also triangular, and separated from the rectum