739 ILIO-C^CAL VALVE. of the sficculi of tlie large intestine. In the rectum it forms three valvular folds {valves of Houston), one of which is situated near the commencement of that part of the intestine ; the second, extend- ing from the side of the tube, is j^laced opposite the middle of the sacrum ; and the third, which is the largest and most constant, pro- jects from the anterior wall of the bowel opposite the prostate gland. Besides these folds, the membrane in the empty state of the intestine is thrown into longitudinal pleats somewhat similar to those of the oesophagus ; these have been named the columns of the rectum (colmnnce recti of Morgagni). The mucous membrane of the rectum is connected to the muscular coat by a loose areolar tissue, as in the oesophagus. One character serves infallibly to distinguish the mucous mem- l)rane of the small intestine from that of the large, namely, that the former is studded over throughout by minute conical processes called villi, which are entirely absent from tlie latter. The mucous membrane of the large intestine is furnished with Lieberklihn's follicles, resembling those of the small intestine ; they are, however, more numerous, are much longer, and contain a larger number of mucous-cells. The lymphoid tissue of the large bowel forms spherical masses, like those described in the structure of the small bowel under the name of solitary glands, but they are smallei' and less prominent. They are especially numerous in the cjecum and vermiform appendix. The epithelium on the surface of the large intestine is columnar, and the mucous membrane has on its deep aspect a definite muscularis mucoste. Ilio-caecal Valve.—At the termination of the ileum in the large intestine, the mucous membrane forms two semilunar folds, strengthened by the muscular coat. The termination of the ileuuv is oblique and flattened, and constitutes the division between the CEecum and colon, the two folds of mucous membrane being the ileo- ccecal or ileo-colic valve (valve of Bauhin or valve of Tulpius). The position of these folds is such that one belongs to the caecum, the other to the colon, the opening between them being oblong and oval, and not inaptly compared to a button-hole ; moreover, the colic flap somewhat overlaps the coecal fiap, and is so disposed in relation to the entrance of the ileum that the contents of the small bowel are necessarily discharged into the caecum. The upper or ileo-colic fold is horizontal in its direction, the lower or ileo-csecal is nearly ver- tical ; both folds are prolonged on each side for some distance beyond the ends of the opening, these prolongations being called frennla or relinucnla. The opening from the ileum to the ctecum is rounded and wide at its anterior and left end, narro>V and pointed at the posterior. Tlie description of the vessels and nerves distributed to the alimentary canal has l)een given with the anatomy of the small intestine.