773 PENIS. which are prolonged into the substance of the glans penis. The fibres of the fibrous coat penetrate into the interior, and there form the trabemlce of the cavernous erectile tissue. The corpus spongiosum is situated along the under surface of the corpus cavernosum, in its inferior groove. It commences by its posterior extremity between and beneath the crura penis, where it forms an enlargement, the bulb, and terminates anteriorly by another expansion, the glans penis. Its middle portion, or body, is nearly cylindrical, and tapers gradually from the posterior to the anterior extremity. The bulb is adherent to the triangular liga- ment by means of a prolongation of fibrous membrane ; in the rest of its extent the corpus spongiosum is attached to the corpus caver- nosum by areolar tissue, and by veins which pass upwards to reach the dorsal vein. It is composed of erectile tissue, enclosed in a dense fibroiis layer much thinner than that of the corj)US caver- nosum, and contains the sj)ongy portion of the urethra, which lies nearer its upper than its lower wall. The bulb shows a tendency to division into two lobes, an appearance which is due to the existence of a thin longitudinal septum in its interior. The fibrous tunic of the corpus spongiosum, unlike that of the corpus cavernosum, consists only of circular fibres which are re- flected inwards along the middle line, forming a septum which is complete only in the bulb ; the reflected fibres of this sejDtum em- brace the urethra through its entire length, and exclude the latter from the proper structure of the corpus spongiosum. Erectile tissue is a peculiar cellulo-vascular structure, entering in considerable qiiantity into the composition of the organs of genera- tion. It consists of bands of fibrous and elastic tissue (with a few muscular fibres) which pass from the capsule of the oi'gan into its interior, and there divide and unite in such a manner as to produce a system of cavities communicating freely with each other. The cavities are smaller in the glans penis, corpus spongiosum, and cir- cumference of the corpus cavernosum than in the central part of the latter, where they are large and dilated ; they are lined by a layer of flattened endothelial cells, continuous with those lining tlie arteries and veins. The cavernous spaces are at all times filled with blood, but become overcharged and distended during erection of the organ, in consequence of pressure upon its large veins retarding the venous flow. The arteries are convoluted in the passive state of the penis, but straightened in its distended condition ; they terminate in large capillaries, which do not form a plexus, as in other situations, but open directly into the cavernous spaces. Some of the finer twigs of the arteries have a peculiar, twisted, and dilated or tendril-like appearance, first described by Miiller under the name of arterice helicince. The helicine arteries are somewhat dilated where they lie in the trabeculiB, and are bound down by small fibrous bands, possibly for the purpose of limiting their distension. The venous plexus conveys the blood into the efl'erent veins of the penis, bv which it is returned to the general circulation.