THORACIC GANGLIA. 607 ! plexus. It is distributed with the branches of the coronary artery i on the anterior aspect of the heart. The posterior coronary plexus proceeds from the deep cardiac , plexus, and principally from its left division. It follows the course i of the arteries distributed to the posterior aspect of the heart. THORACIC PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The thoracic portion of the sympathetic nerve is the trunk of the sympathetic in its course through the cavity of the thorax. It lies by the side of the vertebral column on the heads of the ribs and inter- costal spaces, but at its lowest part comes into relation with the sides of the bodies of the two last dorsal vertebrae. The THORACIC GANGLIA (Fig. 348) are twelve in number at each side. They are flattened and tri- angular, or present the colour and irregular CARDIAC anA] AORTIC PULMONARY OBSOPHAGEAL in form, and peculiar reddish-grey pearly lustre of sym- pathetic ganglia in general; they rest against the heads of the ribs, and are covered by the pleura cos- talis. The first two ganglia and the last are usually the largest; the latter being situated on the side of the body of the last dorsal vertebra. Their branches are branches of communication and branches of distribution. Some ascending fila- ments from the first ganglion assist in tlie formation of the vertebral plexus. Tlie external or communicating branches, usually two in number for each ganglion, communicate with the intercostal nerves ; of these, one is greyish in colour, and is believed to pass from the gan- glion to the spinal nerve ; the other, of a wliite colour, probably is spinal in its origin, and is distriliuted with the sympathetic nerves. The internal or visceral branches proceeding from the five or six upper ganglia, are of small size, and distributed to the aorta heart, oesophagus, vertebral cohimn, and lungs. The branches to \ \ 1 ^\ \ \ z ^ \ \l \ \ , LESSER S-^'- SPLANCHNIC SPLANCHNIC Fia. 348.—Diagram of the thoracic sympathetic chain, and the branches given off from it. Opposite 3, the eommiuiications with one of the dorsal nerves are shown.