licive been described as runuing between the gland cells. The ditds are composed of ai'eolar and elastic tissue, and lined by a columnar epithelium. In the walls of the ducts are numerous small racemose mucous glands like those in the hepatic ducts. The secretion of tlie pancreas is a clear fluid containing few cells. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the pancreas are branches of the splenic, hepatic, and superior mesenteric ; the veins open into the splenic and superior mesenteric veins ; the lymphatics terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are filaments of the solar plexus. THE SPLEEN. The spleen is an oblong flattened organ, of a dark bluish-red colour, situated in the left hypochondriac region. It is very variable in size and weight, but on an average is about five inches in length, and weighs six ounces; it is spongy and vascular in texture, and Fig. 459.—a. Trabecule of Spleen, b. An artery cut obliquely. exceedingly friable. The external surface is convex, the internal slightly concave, indented along the ]uiddle line, and pierced by several large and irregular openings for the entrance and exit of vessels ; this is the hiium Hems. The upper extremity is somewhat larger than the lower, and rounded ; the inferior is flattened ; the posterior border is obtuse, the anterior shai'p, and marked by several notches. The spleen is in relation by its external or convex surface with the diaphragm, which separates it from the ninth, tenth, and eleventh ribs ; by its concave surface, with the great end of the stomach, small extremity of the pancreas, gastro-splenic omentum with its vessels, left kidney and supra-renal body, and left crus of the diaphragm ; by its upper end with the diaphragm, and some- times with the extremity of the left lobe of the liver ; and, by its lower end, with the left extremity of the transverse arch of the colon. It is connected to the stomach by the gastro-splenic omentum, and is supported by a fold of peritoneum passing from the diaphragm to the splenic flexure of the colon, and called the phreno-colic ligament or s\hspe7Lsorij Ivjament of the spleen. 3 B