139 SCAPULA. ment to the long tendon of the biceps. At the anterior and upper part of the glenoid cavity a rudimentary notch is observed in its margin ; this is interesting as corresponding to the notch at the inner side of the acetabulum. The superior angle is thin and pointed. The inferior angle is thick, and smooth upon the posterior surface for the origin of the teres major, and for a large bursa over which the ujij^er border of the latissimus dorsi muscle j^lays ; it also occa- sionally gives origin to a few fibres of the latter muscle. The spine of the scapula, triangular in form, crosses the upper part of the dorsum of the bone ; it commences at the posterior border hy a smooth triangular surface over which the fan-shaped tendon of the trapezius glides, and terminates at the point of the shoulder in the acromion ])rocess. At a short distance from its origin, where the tri- angular surface rises to the level of the sj)ine, is a prominent tubercle, which marks the ter- mination of the line of attach- ment of the tendon of the trapezius. The anterior border of the spine is smooth and concave, it arises near the neck of the scapula, and is continued into the under surface of the acromion; it encloses a notch, the great scapular notch, between it and the glenoid cavity. The free border of the spine is rough and subcutaneous, and gives at- tachment, by two projecting lips, to the trapezius above and deltoid Ijelow ; the surfaces of the spine enter into the formation of the supra- and infra - spinous fossa. The nutrient foramina of the scapula are situated in the base of the spine. The acromion, somewhat tri- angular in form, is flattened from above downwards; it over- hangs the glenoid cavity, the upper surface being rough and subcutaneous the lower smooth. Near its extremitv, on the tla^cle articular surface, for the end of the The coracoid process is a thick, round, and curved process of bone, arising from the upper part of the neck of the scapula, and Fio. 128!—Postevioi- view of the scapula. I. Supra-spinous fossa. 2. Infra- spinous fossa. 3. Superior border. 4. Supra-scapular notch. 5. Axillary' border. 6. Head of the scapula and glenoid cavity. 7. Inferior angle. 8. Neclc of the scapula; the ridge opposite tlie figure g^ives origin to the long head oif the triceps, g. Pos- terior border or base of the scapula. 10. The spine. 11. Triangular smooth surface, over which the tendon of the trapezius glides. 12. Acromion process. 13. One of the nutrient for- amina. 14. Coracoid process.