513 THALAMI OPTICI. aud form tlie narrow white band called corpios fimbriatum or tcBnia hip2)ocampi. In the middle line the fornix lies in contact by its upper surface with the corpus callosum, and by its under surface with the velum interpositum. The fornix may now be removed by dividing it across anteriorly, and turning it backwards, at the same time separating its lateral connections with the hippocampi. On examining its under surface it will be noticed that where the posterior pillars diverge from each other they expose the fibres of the corpus callosum, and that these are for the most part transverse. The appearance presented by the lateral bars formed by the fornix and the transverse lines of the corpus callosum, has been named the lyra from a fancied resem- blance to a harp. Velum Interpositum,—Beneath the fornix is the velum inter- positum (tela choroidea), a fold of pia mater introduced into the interior of the brain through the transverse fissure. It extends from the foramen of Monro in front to the back j)art of the splenium of the corj)US callosum behind ; laterally, it passes beneath the edge of the fornix and reaches the floor of the lateral ventricles, where it is connected with the choroid jjlexuses of those cavities. In this way it gives to the edge of the fornix that fringed ajDpearance from which its name of corpus Jimbriatuvi has been deiived. On its under surface the velum forms the roof of the third ventricle, having attached to it the choroid plexuses of the latter cavity ; and at the back part it is intimately connected with the pineal body. In the centre of its upper aspect run twa. veins, the veins of Galen, which receive blood from the interior of the ventricles, and empty it into the straight sinus. The velum interpositum is coated with an epithelium identical with that of the choroid jjlexuses ; and around the pineal body the areolar tissue is abundant and strong. If the vehim interpositum be raised and turned back, an opera- tion to be conducted with care, particularly at its posterior part, where it invests the pineal body, the thalami optici and the cavity of the third ventricle will be brought into view. Thalami Optici.—The thalami optici are two oval bodies, of a white colour superficially, inserted between the two diverging portions of the corpora striata, and resting upon the upper surface of the crura cerebri. In the middle line a fissure exists between them which is called the third ventricle. The anterior part forms a rounded prominence immediately behind the tosnia seniicircularis and is called the anterior tubercle ; the posterior extremity forms a free rounded border, projecting into the transverse fissure of the brain, the 2^osterior tubercle or pulvinar. Beneath the latter lie two small rounded elevations, the external and internal geniculate bodies separated from each other by one of the roots of the optic nerve.' The corpus geniculatum externum, the larger of the two, and of a greyish colour, is the principal origin of the optic nerve. The upper surface of the optic thalamus is marked by a shallow groove, which distinguishes the limit of the floor of the lateral ventricle ; and 2 K