INTERNAL MAXILLARY ARTERY. 391 pterygoid muscle. These are to be carefully freed from fat and areolar tissue, and then examined. The internal maxillary artery commences in the substance of the parotid gland, ojijiosite the meatus auditorius externus ; it passes in the first instance horizontally forward behind the neck of the lower jaw ; next, curves around the lower border of the external pterygoid muscle near its insertion, and ascends obliquely foi'wards upon the outer side of that muscle ; it then passes inwards between the two heads of the external pterj^goid, and enters the spheno-maxillary fossa. Occasionally it takes its course between the two j)terygoid muscles, without appearing on the outer surface of the external pterygoid. For the purposes of description it admits of division into three portions : maxillary, pterygoid, and spheno-maxillary. Relations.—The maxillary portion is situated between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament and inferior dental nerve, and lies parallel with the auriculo-temporal nerve ; the ptery- goid portion between the external ]Dterygoid muscle, and the masseter and temporal muscle, or between the two pterygoid muscles. The s2Jhe7io-maxillary portion lies between the two heads of the external pterygoid muscle, and, in the spheno-maxillary fossa, is in relation with Meckel's ganglion. Branches.—Maxillary Portion. Anterior tympanic, Inferior dental. Middle meningeal. Lesser meningeal. Pterygoid Portion. Deep temporal, Pterygoid, Masseteric, Buccal. Sjjheno-maxillary Portion. Superior dental, Spheno-palatine, Infra-orbital, Descending palatine, Pterygo-palatine, Vidian. The anterior tympanic branch passes into the tympanum through the fissure of Glaser, and is distributed to the cavity of the tympanum and membrana tympani; on tlie latter it inoscu- lates with the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular artery, and with the Vidian artery. It gives off an auricular branch to the lining membrane of the external auditory meatus and outer surface of the drum of the ear. The inferior dental descends to the dental foramen, and enters the canal of the lower jaw in company with the inferior dental nerve. Opposite the bicuspid teeth it divides into two branches, one of which is continued onwards within the bone as far as the symphysis, to supply the incisor teeth ; while the other, mental, escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and submental Ijranches of the facial. It supplies the alveoli and teeth of the lower jaw, sending small branches along the canals m their roots. At the inferior dental foramen, it gives ott a mijlo-hxjmd branch, which accompanies the mylo-hyoid nerve