LAKYNX. 68o consists of deep fibres arranged transversely, and passing between the arytenoid cai'tilages, and of two oblique bands crossing each other and continuous by their outer ends with the thyro - arytenoideus. The uppermost fibres run to the carti- lages of Santorini, and the lower ones blend with those of the thyro- arytenoideus, and crico - arytenoideus lateralis (Kanthack). The four muscles of the epiglottis are — Thyro-epiglottideus, Aryteno-eiDiglottideus superior, Aryteno-epiglottideus inferior, Hyo-epiglottideus. The thjo-o-epiglottideus appears to be formed by the upper fibres of the thyro-arytenoideus muscle ; they spread out on the external surface of the sac- culus laryngis, and in the aryteno-epi- glottidean fold of mucous membrane, on which they are lost; a few of the anterior fibres being continued onwards to the side of the ejiiglottis (depressor eiDiglottidis). The aryteno-epiglottideus superior consists of a few scattered muscular fibres, which pass forward in the fold of mucous membrane forming the late- ral boundary of the entrance into the larynx, from the apex of the arytenoid cartilage to the side of the epiglottis. The aryteno-epiglottideus inferior, closely coimected with the sacculus laryngis, may be seen l)y raising the mucous membrane immediately above the ventricle of the larjnix. It arises by a narrow and fibrous origin from the arytenoid cartilage, just above the attach- ment of the vocal cord ; and passiug forwards and a little upwards expands over the upper half or two-thirds of the sacculus laryngis ; it is inserted by a bi'oad attachment into the side of the epiglottis. The hyo-epiglottideus has not hitherto been described as a normal muscle of the human larynx. From the investigations, however, of Dr. John Macintja'e in the dissecting-room of St. Mungo's College, it would appear that it is invai'iably present, although vaiying much in the degree of its development. It generally consists of three muscular slips lying beneath the glosso- epiglottidean folds, and passing from the iiyoid bone to the front of the epiglottis. The muscles of the larynx are so intimately connected with each other, that the sejjaration into those above named and described is Fig. 395.—Posterior view of the larynx, i. Epiglottis. 2. Ary- teno-epiglottideus. 3. Superior cornu of thyroid. 4. Oblique fibres of aiytenoideus. 5. Ary- teno-epiglottidean fold. 6. Deep fibres of arytenoideus. 7. Cor- nieulum lai'yngis. 8. Mus- cular angle of arytenoid. 9. Thyroid cartihige. 10. Crico- arytenoideus posticus. 11. Arti- culation of cricoid with thyroid. 12. Trachea. 13. Cricoid carti- lage.