699 PERITONEUM. forming the lesser omentum. They then, in the same manner, surround the stomach, and meeting at its lower border, descend for some distance in front of the intestines, and return to the transverse colon, forming the great omentum ; they then surround the trans- verse colon, and pass directly backwards to the vertebral column, forming the transverse meso-colon. Here the two layers separate ; the 'posterior ascends in front of the pancreas and aorta, and returns to the posterior jDart of the diaj)hragm, where it becomes the posterior layer with which we commenced. The anterior descends, invests all the small intestines, and returning to the vertebral column, forms the mesentery. It then descends into the pelvis in front of the rectum, which it holds in its place by means of a fold called meso- rectum, forms a pouch, the recto-vesical fold, between the rectum and the bladder, ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder, forming its false ligaments, and returns upon the anterior jDarietes of the abdomen to the diaphragm, whence we first traced it. In the female, after descending into the pelvis in front of the rectum, it is reflected upon the posterior surface of the vagina and uterus. It then descends on the anterior surface of the uterus, and forms at either side the broad ligaments of that organ. From the uterus it ascends upon the posterior surface of the bladder, and anterior parietes of tlie abdomen, and is continued, as in the male, to the diaphragm. In like manner the peritoneum can be traced as a continuous slieet from one side to the other side of the abdomen. Thus, if we commence at the middle line in front and follow it across the ab- domen below the level of the transverse colon, "we shall find that it passes from the abdo- minal Avail to the right iliac fossa where it covers in the caecum and as- colon, the meso - caecum and ascending meso-colon ; it ti l en passes in- cending forming Fig. 410.—Transverse section of the abdomen at the level of the foramen of Winslow. The arrow passes from the greater to the lesser cavity of the peritoneum tlirough the foramen of Winslow which is shown in section. S. Stomach. P. Pancreas Sp. Spleen. K. Kidney. V. Vertebra. A, Aorta. wards and forms the mesentery which attaclies the small intestines to the vertebra] column, and may be traced from thence to the left iliac