MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE 257 Albinus as two muscles, under the names of basio-glossus and cerato-glossus, to which he added a tliird fasciculus, arising from the lesser cornu, and spreading along the side of the tongue, the chondro-glossus. The basio-glossus slightly overlaps the upper part of the cerato-glossus, and is separated from it by the transverse portion of the stvlo-glossus. i -. -j Relations—By its external surface with the digastric, stylo-hyoid, stylo-glossus, inylo-hyoid, gustatory nerve, hypoglossal nerve, Whar- ton's duct, and sublingual gland. By its internal surface with the middle constrictor of the pharynx, liiigualis, genio-hyo-glossus, lingual artery, and glosso-pharyngeal nerve. Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal nerve. THE LINGUALIS.—Muscular fibres may be seen towards the apex of the tongue, issuing from the interval be- tween the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus ; these constitute the lin- ;ualis longitudinalis inferior. It consists of a small fasciculus of fibres 'unning longitudinally rom the base, where it is attached to the oshyoides, to the apex of the tongue. The other muscles en- tering into the structure of the tongue, are the lingualis longitudinalis Fig. 190.—Extrinsic and intrinsic muscles of the mmprinr vpI t^miorfiri- tongue, '.i. Mucous membrane. 2. Superficial superior vei SUpcmci longitudinal lingualis. 3. Transverse lingualis. ans, the ImgUailS trans- 4, 4. inferior longitudinal lingualis. 5, 5. Genio- versus, and the lingualis hyo-giossus. 6, 6. Hyo-giossus. 7. stylo-glossus. verticalis. The lingua- lis superior forms a thin plane on the upper surface of the organ, lying immediately beneath the mucous membrane, and is intermixed ■with fine areolar and adipose tissue. This layer is thicker in front than behind, and is covered posteriorly by a thin stratum of transverse fibres derived from tlie hyo-glossus. The lingualis transversus con- stitutes the chief bulk of the tongue; it lies between the lingualis superior and inferior, its fibres being attached at the middle line to the fibrous septum of the tongue, and laterally to the mucous mem- brane ; some of its fibres are continuous Avith those of the stylo- glossus, hyo-glossus, and jDalato-glossus. The lingualis verticalis forms a series of curves in each half of the tongue, intersecting the ti'ansverse lingualis, and extending from the dorsum to the under surface, where many of the fibr.es become continuous with these of the genio-hyo-glossus. The fibres of the muscular struc- ture of the tongue are separated from each other by a large quantity of very fine fat and some ghmdular tissue. The lateral halves of