GLOSSAEY OF ANATOMICAL TEEMS. 805 Circumduction (Lat. circum, around, and duco, I lead). The slight degree of motion which takes place between the head of a bone and the socket, while the extremity of the limb is made to describe a large circle. CiRCUMVALLATE (Lat. circumvallatus, trenched about). Claustrum (Lat. claudo, I shut). A layer of grey matter in the outer capsule of the corpus striatum. Clavicle (Lat. davis, a key). The collar bone. Cleido-mastoid (Gk. /cXet's, a key, fj-aaros, a nipple, and et8os, like). Con- nected with the clavicle and mastoid process. Clinoid (Gk. kXLvt}, a bed, and elSos, like). The processes wliich border the sella turcica are so called because they bear some resemblance to the posts of a bedstead. Clitoris (Gk. kXelvw, I shut up). The homologue in the female of the penis of the male. Coaptation (Lat. con, together, and aplo, I fit). The bringing successive articular areas into relation with another articular surface. Coccyx (Gk. kokkv^, a cuckoo). The last bone of the vertebral column in man. It is supposed to resemble a cuckoo's beak. Cochlea (Gk. /c6xXos, a shell-fish). A spiral cavity in the internal ear. CcELiAC (Gk. KolXia, the belly). Belonging to the belly. Colon (Gk. kw\ov, the colon). The large intestine. Commissure (Lat. committere, to unite). A joining together. Complexus (Lat. complecti, to comprise). A muscle at the back of the neck, so called because of the intricate mixture of its muscular and tendinous parts. Concha (Gk. kovxv, a shell). The central part of the external ear. Condyle (Gk. k6v8v\os, a knuckle). Term applied to certain articular osseous processes. Conjunctiva (Lat. con, together, and jiingo, I join). The mucous mem- brane of the front of the eye, which connects the lids with the eyeball. Conoid (Gk. kQvos, a cone, and el8os, like). A cone-shaped portion of the coraco-clavicular ligament is so called. Constrictor (Lat. constringcrc, to bind tightly together). A muscle which constricts or closes any opening of the body. Coracoid (Gk. KSpa^, a raven, and eUos, like). A process of the scapula supposed to resemble a raven's beak. CORiuM (Gk. xopi'Oi', leather). The deep layer of the skin. Cornea (Lat. corncus, horny). The anterior transparent part of the eye. CoRNUA (Lat. cornu, a horn). Processes which project like horns. Corona (Lat. corona, a crown). Forming a circlet like a crown. Corpus (Lat. corpus, a body, pi. corpora). A body. Hence we have the following :— Corpora albicantia (Lat. albico, I become white). Two whitish masses of nerve substance at the base of the brain. „ Arantii. Fibrous nodules in the semilunar valves of the heart, so named after the anatomist, Aranzi of Boloirna. „ cavernosa (Lat. eaverna, a cavern). Two ehmgated bodies, formed of erectile tissue, and forming the chief bulk of the penis and clitoris. „ geniculata (Lat. gcnicultim, a knot). Two small promi- nences of nerve matter situated at the back part of each thalamus opticus.