BASE OF THE BRAIN. 497 the pons it is necessary to study a transverse section, such as that shown in Fig. 297. The superficial transverse fibres (po-.) are separated from the deep (po.^) by the mass of ascending fibres from the anterior pyramid (py.). Near the middle of the section is a large collection of the deep transverse fibres, called the trapezium (t.) from the fact that in certain lower animals it assumes the appearance of an irregular four-sided figure. Behind the trapezium is a continua- tion of the formatio reticularis, already described in the sections of the medulla; in the middle line is an imperfect raphe formed of nerve-cells and non-meduUated fibres. At the back are the nuclei for the origin of the sixth, seventh, and eighth nerves (indicated in the figure by Roman numerals), and nerve strands are seen proceeding from these and traversing the j)ons. The ascending root of the fifth nerve is seen cut across (a.v.), enclosed by a con- tinuation of the greij substance of Rolando; while a special nuclerxs (o.s.), called the superior olivary nucleus, is situated behind the lateral fibres of the trapezium. Some writers describe a small grey nucleus among the superficial transverse fibres, and name it the nucleus of the pons. CEREBRUM. The cerebrmn jDresents on its surface a number of slightly convex elevations, the convolutions (gyri), which are separated from each other by sulci of various depth. It is divided superiorly into two hemispheres by the great longitudinal fissure, which lodges the falx cerebri, and marks the original develoj)nient of the brain by two symmetrical halves. Base of the Brain. The student should first study the Ijase of the brain ; for this purpose the organ should be turned upon its upper surface. The arachnoid membrane, some parts of the pia mater, and the circle of Willis, must be carefully cleared away, in order to expose all the parts to be examined. These he will find to be as follows :— Longitudinal fissure, Infundibulum ; Corpus callosum. Pituitary body, Lamina cinerea, Corpora albicantia, Olfactory nerves, Locus perforatus, Fissure of Sylvius, Crura cerebri; Substantia perforata ; Pons Varolii, Optic commissure, Crura cerebelli. Tuber cinereum, Medulla oblongata. The longitudinal fissure is the space separating the two hemi- spheres ; it is continued downwards to the base of the brain, and divides the two anterior lobes. In this fissure the anterior cerebral arteries ascend towards the corpus callosum ; and if the two lobes be slightly drawn asunder, the anterior border (genu) of the corpus 2 I