284 MUSCLES OF THE)ABDOMEN. ribs are then brought into play, and by their action elevate the ribs ; these are the pectoralis major and minor, serratus magnus, and latis- simus dorsi. Much difference of opinion prevails as to the action of the external and internal intercostals, many anatomists adliei'ing: to the theory taught l)y liamberger that the external are insjiiratory,. and the internal expiratory muscles ; while others accept tlie \ie\v so forcibly expounded by Hutchinson that the Avhole of tlie external and the part of the internal lying between the costal cartilages act in inspiration, and the rest of the internal intercostals in expiration. Duclienne, as the result of direct experiment on the muscles, sup- ported the theory that both muscles act in common as muscles of inspiration, by raising the ribs, and so increasing the capacity of the thorax ; and the same view has been adopted by Henle and Luschka. Ordinary tranquil expiration is not a muscular act, but an elastic and mechanical recoil, due to the elasticity of 1?he lung-substance and the recoil of the chest wall after the muscles of inspiration have ceased to act. In forced expiration all tlie muscles which depress the I'ibs are brought into action, more especially those forming the abdominal wall (ol)liqui, transversales, and recti), and the ti^iangularis sterni and sacro-lumbalis. Lastly, it shoiild be noted tliat certain muscles usually classed with those of expiration, from their being attached to the lower ribs, may in consequence of that attachment assist in inspii-ation, by giving a point of fixation and support for the act ion of the diaphragm ; such are the serratus posticus inferior and quad- ratus lumborum. The levatores costarum are generally regarded as muscles of inspiration, but Von Elmer considers them to be chieliy brought into play in lateral flexion of the dorsal spine. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE ABDOMEN. The nauscles of the abdominal region are the— Obliquus externus (descendens), Rectus, Obliquus internus (ascendens), Pyramidalis, Cremaster, Quadratus lumborum, Ti-ansversalis, Psoas parvus. mi Diaphragm. Dissection.—The dissection oP the abdominal muscles is to be commenced by making three incisions:—The first, vertical, in the middle line, from over the lower part of the sternum to the pubes; the second, transverse, from the top of the first incision aci-oss the cheBt, as far back as the, knife can be carried ; the third, ohhqne, from the umbilicus, downwards and outwards, to the anterior supe- rior spine of the ilium. The three fla]is included by these incisions should then be dissected liack in the direction of the libres of the external oblique muscle, beginning at the angle of each. Tlie in- tegument and superflcial fas'cia should be dissected off separately, so jis'^to enal)le the student to examine the relation of the vessels to the parts connected with hernia.