ORGAN OF HEARING. 646 across the diameter of tlie canal, and consists of two thin lamellae, between wliich, and through the perforations on their surfaces, the filaments of the cochlear nerve reach the membranous portion of the cochlea. The upper of the two passages thus separated is called the scala vestibuli, the lower the scala tympani. At the apex of the cochlea the osseous lamina terminates by a liook-shaped process (hamidus lamince spiralis) ; and here also the scalse communicate by means of a small opening called the helico- trema. Inferiorly, one of the two scalae, the scala vestibuli, termi- nates by an oval aperture in the anterior part of the vestibule ; while the other, the scala tymj)ani, becomes somewhat expanded, and opens into the tympanum through the fenestra rotunda. The internal surface of the osseous labyrinth is lined by a thin layer of periosteum which is separated from the membranous struc- tures contained in its cavities by a limj)id fluid called the perilymph (liquor Cotunnii). In the cochlea the periosteum invests the two surfaces of the bony lamina spiralis. The fenestra ovalis and fenesti'a rotunda are closed by an extension of this membrane across them, assisted by the membrane of the cavity of the tympanum, and a proper intermediate layer {memhrana secundaria). Besides lining • the interior of the osseous cavity, the periosteum sends two delicate processes along the aqueducts of the vestibule and cochlea, to the dura mater, with which they are continuous. These processes are the remains of a communication originally existing between the dura | mater and the cavity of the labyrinth. * MEMBRANOUS LABYRINTH.—This consists of certain membra- nous bags contained within the osseous cavity of the vestibule and semicircular canals, and of the structures which serve to complete the I spiral lamina of the f cochlea. The membranous laby- rinth of the semicircular canals and vestibule has the same general shape as the osseous cavity in which it is contained ; it} floats in the perilymph, and is held in position by numerous nerve fila- ments derived chiefly from the vestibular wall, and by fine fibrous bands derived from the periosteum of the osseous labyrinth. It contains in its interior a fluid similar to the perilymph, which is called endolymph, and is secreted bv its lining membrane. Structure.—In structure this part of the membranous labynnlli consists of three layers—an outer, fibrous ; a middle, homogeneous (tunica propria); and an inner, epithelial. The fibrous layer consist--^ Fig. 376. — Membranous labyrinth, a. Superior semicircular canal. 6. Posterior semicircular canal. c. External semicircular canal. d. Utricle, e. Saccule. /. Canalis reuniens. g. Membranous cochlea.