MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. 245 The BUCCINATOR (buccina, a trumpet), tlie trumpeter's muscle, ai-ises from tlie base of the alveolar processes of the superior and in- ferior maxillary bones, corresponding to the three molar teeth, and the pterygo-maxiUary ligament. This ligament is the raphe of union between the buccinator and superior constrictor muscles, and is attached by one extremity to the hamular process of the internal pterygoid plate, and by tlie other to the extremity of the molar ridge of the lower jaw. The fibres of the muscle converge towards the angle of the mouth, where some are continuous with the levator and depressor anguli oris, and the greater number cross each other, the superior being continuous with the inferior segment of the orbicularis oris, the inferior with the superior segment. The fibres along the upper border of the muscle pass directly into the upper fibres of the orbicularis and do not decussate, and those along the lower border in like manner pass directly into the lower fibres of that muscle. The muscle is in^'ested externally by a thin fascia (buccal) which extends backwards to the pharynx. Relations.—By its external surface, posteriorly, Avith a large and rounded mass of fat, which separates the muscle from the ramus of the lower jaw, temporal, and masseter : anteriorly with the risorius Santorini, zygomatici, levator anguli oris, and depressor anguli oris. It is also in relation with a part of Stenson's duct (which pierces it opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw), with the trans- \'erse facial artery, branches of the facial and buccal nerves, and facial and buccal arteries and veins. By its internal surface with the buccal glands and mucous membrane of the mouth. Nerve-supply.—Buccal branch of facial, which supplies it on its superficial surface. The PTERYGOIDEUS EXTERNUS is a short and thick muscle, broader at its origin than at its insertion. It arises by two heads, one from the pterygoid ridge on the under surface of the great wing of the sphenoid ; the other from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, tuberosity of the palate bone and tuberosity of the superior maxillai'y. The fibres pass backwards to be inserted into a depression on the anterior aspect of the neck of the lower jaw, and into the interarticular fibro-cartilage. The internal maxillary artery passes between the two heads of this muscle, and the lower head is commonly pierced by the Iniccal branch of the fifth nerve. Relations.—By its external surface with the ramus of the lower jaw, temporal muscle, and internal maxillary artery ; by its internal surface witli the intei'ual pterygoid muscle, internal lateral liga- ment of the jaw, middle lueningeal artery, and inferior maxillary nerve ; by its wpper harder with the muscular branches of the inferior maxillary nerve. Nerve-supply.—Buccal branch of inferior maxillary. Dissection.—The condyle of the jaw must now be removed from its socket, and, together with the external pterygoid, be turned over towards the nose, so as to expose the internal pterygoid. The PTERYGOIDEUS INTERNUS is a thick quadrangular muscle