102 SPHENOID BONE. and are partially closed by two thin plates of bone (frequently broken away), the sphenoidal spongy bones (Ijones of Bertin). On eacli side of the sphenoidal cells are the outlets of the optic foramina, and other openings to l)e presently described ; the lesser and greater wings; and, l)elow, the pterygoid processes. At the under surface of the body are two thin plates of bone {vaginal processes), proceeding fi-om the base of the pterygoid process at each side, articulating with the alse of the vomer. On each of these plates, close to tlie root of the pterygoid process, is a groove converted into a canal Ijy the palate bone, t\i& fterygo-palatine canal for the pterygo-palatine nerve and pharyngeal artery ; and traversing the root of the jjterygoid process at its union with the body of the bone, is the ptenjgoid or Vidian canal, which gives passage to the Vidian nerve and artery. The posterior surface of the body is flat and rough, and articu- lates with the l^asilar process of the occipital bone ; after the twenty- lifth year this union is usually completed by iDone. The posterior surface is continuous at each side A\'ith the spinous process, and in the angle of union is the termination of the Vidian canal. The lesser wings (orbito-sphenoids) are thin and triangular, the base being attached to the upper and anterior part of the body of the sphenoid ; and the apex, jjrolonged outwards, terminating in an Fig. io6.—Aiitero-inferior view of the sphenoid bone. i. Eth- moidal spine. 2. The rostrum. 3. Sphenoidal spongy bone partly closing the left opening of the sphenoidal cells. 4. Les- ."^er wing. 5. Optic foramen, piercing the base of the lesser wing. 6. Sphenoidal fissure. 7. Foramen rotunduni. 8. Or- bital surface of the greater wing. g. Its temporal sur- face. 10. The pterygoid ridge. 11. Pterygo-p,alatine canal. 12. Foramen of entrance of the Vidian canal. 13. Internal pterygoid plate. 14. Hamular process. 15. External pterygoid plate. 16. Fora- men spinosum. 17. Foramen ovale. 18. Extremity of the spinous process of the sphenoid. acute point. The anterior border, irregularly serrated, articulates with the orbital plate of the frontal; the posterior, free and rounded, is received into the fissure of Sylvius of the cerel)rum. The inner extremity of this border is the' anterior clinoid process ; it is sup- poi'ted by a short pillar of bone, which forms the inferior boundary of the optic foramen, and gives attachment by its anterior surface to part of the common tendon of the muscles of the orbit. The lesser wing forms the posterior part of the roof of the orbit. Between the lesser and greater wings is a triangular slit, broad internally, btit narrowing almost to a point at its outer extremity---this is the sphenoidal fissure {foramen lacemon anterius) ; it transmits the third, fourth, three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth, the