CliANIAL NEKVES. 560 to tli(i foramen lacerum posterius. It communicates in its couisc witli the posterior root of the first cervical nerve, and entei-ing the skull hy tlie foramen magirum, leaves it again by the jugular foramen, and becomes applied against the posterior aspect 0? tlie ganglion of the ti'unk of the ])neumogastric, being contained in tlie same sheath of dura uiater. The accessory portion arises from the lateral aspect of the medulla, immediately Ijelow the vagus ; its fibres being traceable through the medulla to a grey nucleus in the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The two jjortions lie together, in the same compartment of the jugular foramen as the vagus, and often become intimately united so as to form a short trunk. Immediately after leaAdng the foramen the accessory portion of the nerve joins the ganglion of the trank of the vagus, and probably endows that nerve with motor power. The spinal jiortion is continued downwards behind, but sometimes in front of, the internal jugular vein, to the upper and deep part of the sterno-mastoid, pierces that muscle obliquely, and descends across the posterior triangle of the neck to the deep surface of the trapezius, to which it is distributed, its branches being continued downwards to near the lower border of the muscle. In the substance of the sterno-mastoid it communicates witli branches of the cervical plexus, and in the posterior triangular space with the third and fourth cervical nerves. TWELFTH NERVE. HYPOGLOSSAL NERVE.—The hypoglossal is a nerve of motion, distributed to all the extrinsic muscles of the tongue, the geuio-hyoid and the thyro-hyoid. It arises from the groove between the anterior pyramid and olivary body by ten or fifteen filaments, which are col- lected into two bundles, and escape from the cranium through the anterior condylar foramen. At its exit from tlie cranium, the nerve lies behind the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein, then passing forward between the artery and vein it descends to a point parallel with the angle of the lower jaw. It next cuim ? forward around the occipital artery, with which it forms a loop, and crossing the external carotid and lower part of the hyo-glossus muscle to the genio-hyo-glossus, sends filaments onwards with ■ the anterior fibres of that muscle as far as the tip of the tongue. f While resting on the hyo-glossus muscle it is flattened, and lie- jj neath the mylo-hyoid communicates with the lingual branch of the fifth nerve. _ At its origin, the hypoglossal nerve sometimes communicates with the posterior root of the first cervical nerve. Its deep origin may be traced to one of the nuclei of grey substance, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, whei-e it decussates with its fellow of tlie o]iiio- site side. I