198 STERNO-CLAVIOULAR ARTICULATION. — , ami ueiiiuu witu me mier- w nbro-caitilage and synovial membranes, posterior sterno-clavicular ligament is a broad baud g the posterior surface of the articulation. It is in relation by its anterior surface with the interarticular fibro-cartilage and synovial membranes ; and behind, with the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid muscle. The anterior and posterior sterno-clavicular ligaments, together with a few short fibres connecting the bones above, are sometimes described as forming one ligament, which is then called capsular. The inter-clavicular ligament is a cord-like band which crosses from the extremity of one clavicle to that of the other, and is closely adherent to the upper border of the sternum. The costo-clavicular or rhomboid ligament is a thick fasciculus of fibres, connecting the sternal extremity of the clavicle with the cartilage of the first rib. It is placed obliquely between the rib and under surl'ace of the clavicle ; and is in relation, in front, with the tendon of origin of the subclavius muscle, and behind with the subclavian vein. The interarticular fibro-cartilage is nearly circular in form, and thicker at the edges than in the centre. It is attached above, to the clavicle ; below, to the cartilage of the first rib ; and through- out the rest of its circumference, to the anterior and posterior sterno- clavicular ligaments. It divides the joint into two cavities, which are lined by separate synovial membranes; is sometimes pierced through its centre, and not unfrequently deficient, to a greater or less extent, at its lower part. . One of the synovial cavities lies between the end of the clavicle and interarticular cartilage, the other between the sternum and the cartilage ; the former is more loose than the latter. Actions.—The movements of the sterno-clavicular articulation are—a gliding movement of the clavicle on tlie fibro-cartilage, or of the latter on the sternum, in the directions forward, backward, upward, and downward ; and circumduction. The upward and downward movements take place between the clavicle and inter- FiG. 163.—Ligaments of the ster- no-clavicular iind chondro-sternal articulations, i. Anterior sterno- clavicular ligament. 2. Inter- clavicular ligament. 3. Costo- clavicular or rhomboid ligament, seen on both sides. 4. Inter- articular fibro-cartilage, brought into view by the removal of the anterior and posterior lisraments. 5. Anterior chondro-sternal liya- ments of the first and second ribs.