264 MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. one side, and removed, and the superior constrictor dissected away irom its pterygoid origin, to bring the next muscle into view. The TENSOR PALATI {drcumfiexus) is a slender and flattened muscle ; it arises from the scaphoid fossa at the base of the internal pterygoid plate, from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, the edge of the tympanic plate of the temporal bone, and from the anterior aspect of the Eustachian tube. It lies between the in- ternal pterygoid muscle and internal pterygoid plate; the tendon winds around the hamular process of the latter, and expands into an aponeurosis, which is inserted into the transverse ridge on the horizontal portion of the palate bone, by means of the palatine aponeurosis. The tendon as it passes round the hamular process is contained in a synovial sheath. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle; by its internal surface with the levator palati, internal pterygoid plate, and superior constrictor. In the soft palate, its tendinous expansion is placed in front of the other muscles, and in contact with the mucous membrane. Nerve-supply.—From the otic ganglion, the motor root of which is the facial nerve. Palatine Aponeurosis.—A firm but not well-defined elastic mem- brane extends from the posterior border of the palate ]Dlate into the velum of the palate ; it thins as it descends, and at the sides becomes continuous with the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It gives attachment to portions of all the palatine muscles. The AZYGOS UVULAE (motor uvulce) is a pair of small muscles situated along the mid-line of the soft palate. They arise from the spine of the palate bone and aponeurosis of the soft palate, and are inserted into the uvula. By their anterior surface they are in re- lation with the levatores palati, palato-glossi, and anterior fasciculus of the ]Dalato-pharyngei; posteriorly they have the thin posterior fasciculus of the palato-pharyngei and the mucous meml^rane. Nerve-supply.—Probably from Meckel's ganglion, the nerve fibres being, however, ultimately traceable to the facial nerve. Dissection.—The two next muscles are brought into view by raising the mucous membrane from the pillars of the soft jjalate at each side. The PALATO-GLOSSUS {constrictor isthmi faucium) is a small fasciculus of fibres, which arises in the soft jialate as a radiated expansion continuous with its fellow of the ojjposite side ; and descends to be inserted into the side of the tongue, Avhere its fibres mingle with those of the transverse lingualis. It is the prominence of this small muscle, covered by mucous meuiTirane, that constitutes the anterior jiillar of the soft palate. It has been named constrictor isthmi faucium, from a function it perforins in common with the palato-pharyngeus—viz., constricting the opening of tlie fauces. The PALATO-PHARYNGEUS {constrictor isthmi faucium posterior) forms the j)Osterior pillar of the fauces; it arises by two fasciculi from the raphe of the soft palate, where its fibres are continuous