9 EPITHELIUM. Fig. io.—Columnar epitbelium from the small intestine. Separate cells showing nucleus and nucleolus. FiPt. II.—Appearance of the surface formed by the apposition of the bases of several cells. the male urethra, vas deferens, seminal vesicles, Cowper's glands, glands of Bartholine, and uterine glands. Many of the cells have projecting processes on their edges, hj which they arc connected with similar pro- cesses in neighho;uing cells, the in- terstices left between the processes being filled in by lymphoid or other small cells. Tlie protoplasm both of the cell and nucleus appears gi-anular, this appearance being due to the presence of an intercellular and internucleai' network. Such cells often haA^e vacuoles in theii' substance ; others contain fatty globules or mucin. The mucin frequently distends the cell so much as to push the nucleus towards the attached end of the cell, and by still further distention bursts the cell, leaving a hollow cavity at the free extremity ; such cells are then called goblet or chalice cells. Columnar cells, especially those in the mucous membrane of the intes- tine, have an appearance of fine vertical striation at the free edge ; these stria) are probably minute rods or columns, and the part of the cell containing them is sometimes sepai'ated off from tlie I'est of the protoplasm liy a transverse line or plate. In the cells of the smaller salivary ducts, and in some of those lining the uriniferous tulles of the kidney, it is the attached border, and not the free one, which is striated. 3. Spheroidal or Glandular Epithelium is composed of cells which are spheroidal in shape, but often become more or less polyhedral from compression. This form of epithelium occurs in secreting glands such as the liver and pancreas, the salivary, gastric, and intestinal glands, and the glands of the skin. They appear granular owing to the presence of a fine reticulum in the cell and nucleus, and generally contain the materials which the gland secretes. 4- Transitional Epithelium is the early form of all the varieties Fig. 12.—Goblet-cells from the epi- thelium of an intestinal villus from the human subject, treated with Midler's fluid {Schulze). a. Goblet- cells. 6. Cylinder-cells. Fig. 13.-Saccule of a sebaceous gland.a.Gland ceUs clothing the walls, b. Those which have been cast ofif, filled with oil globules, andoccupying the lumen of tlie sac.