603 CEEVICAL GANGLIA. i the side of the internal carotid, and divides into two branches ; one lying to the outer, the other to the inner side of that vessel. The two branches enter the carotid canal, and, by their communications with each other and with the carotid branch of the Vidian, consti- tute the carotid plexus. The inferior or descending branch, sometimes two, is the cord of communication with the middle cervical ganglion. The external branches are numerous, and may be divided into two sets : those which communicate with the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and hypoglossal nerve, and those which communi- cate with the first four cervical nerves. The internal branches are three in number : pharyngeal, to assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus ; laryngeal, to join the superior laryngeal nerve, and its branches; and superior cardiac nerve, or nervus superticialis cordis. The anterior branches accompany the external carotid artery with its branches, around which they form plexuses, and here and there small ganglia; they are named, from the softness of their texture, nervi moUes, and from their reddish hue, nervi subrufi. The branches accompanying the facial artery are conducted by that vessel to the submaxillary ganglion, and those which accompany the internal maxillary artery reach the otic ganglion through the medium of the middle meningeal artery. Small ganglia are found on these plexuses, and are named from the arteries on which they are situated. Tlie largest of these is placed between the external and internal carotid arteries in the angle of bifurcation of the common carotid ; it is named the inter- carotid ganglion or gland, and has been described by Luschka as not truly ganglionic, but similar in structure to the coccygeal gland. The middle cervical ganglion (thyroid ganglion) is small, and sometimes wanting. It is situated opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, and rests against the inferior thyroid artery. Its superior branch, or branches, ascend to communicate with the superior cervical ganglion. Its inferior branches descend to join the inferior cervical gan- glion ; one of these frequently passes in front of the subclavian artery, the other behind it. Its external branches communicate with the fifth and sixth I cervical nerves. Its internal branches are filaments which accompany the in- j ferior thyroid artery, inferior thyroid plexus; and the middle I cardiac nerve, nervus cardiacus magnus. The inferior cervical ganglion (vertebral ganglion) is much , larger than the preceding, and constant in its existence. It is of a semilunar form, and situated on the base of the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, immediately behind the vertebral ' artery ; hence its designation, '■'■vertebral ganglion J' Its superior branches communicate with the middle cervical ganglion.