PARIETAL BONE. 90 called the posterior fordanelle. The inferior angle is the extremity ol" the basilar process, which in the adult is united with the sphenoid. The lateral angles, at each side, project into tlie interval formed by the articulation of the posterior and inferior angle of the parietal M'ith the mastoid portion of the temporal bone. Development.—By seven centres ; four for the four parts of the expanded portion divided by the crucial ridge, one for each condylai- part and one for the Imsilar portion. Ossification commences in the expanded portion of the bone during the eighth week. At birth the bone consists of four distinct pieces, called respectively supra- occipital, two ex-occipitals, and basi-occipital, the division between the basi- occipital and each ex-occipital passing througli the anterior thii'd of the condyles. The three first unite during the third or fourth year, the last joins them about the fourth to the sixth year. After twenty- five the basilar process unites with the body of the sphenoid. The part above the occipital protuberances is developed from membrane, the rest from cartilage. Articulations.—With six bones; two parietal, two temporal, sphenoid, and atlas. Attachment of Muscles.—To ticelve pairs ; to the superior curved line, the occipito-frontalis, trapezius and sterno-mastoid; to the rough space betioeen the curved lines, complexus, and splenius capitis ; to the sjMce hetiveen the inferior curved line and foramen magmm, the rectus posticus major and minor, and obliquus superior ; to thi^ transverse process, the rectus lateralis ; and to the basilar process, the rectus anticus major and minor, and superior and middle con- strictors of the pharynx. PARIETAL BONE. The parietal Ijone (paries, a wall) is situated at the side and vertex of the skull; it is fpiadrilateral in form, and di^dsible into an Fig. 95.—External surface of the left parietal bone. i. Superior or saggital border. 2. Inferior or squamous border. 3. An- terior or coronal border. 4. Posterior or lanibdoidtU bor- der. 5. Upper tempord crest; the figure is situated imme- diately in front of the parietal eminence. 6. The parietiil for- amen, unusually large in the bone from which this figure was drawn. 7. Anterior in- ferior angle. S. Posterior in- ferior angle. external and internal surface, four borders, and four angles. The superior border is straight, to articulate with its fellow of the