298 MUSCLES OF THE ABDOMEN. Thirdly, in making for itself a new passage through the aljdoniiniil parietes, instead of following a natural channel ; and foui-thly, in the relation of tlie neck of its sac to the epigastric ai'tery ; tliat vessel lying to the outer side of the opening of the sac of direct hernia, and to the inner side of that of oldique hernia. The direct hernia passes through a triangular si)ace, bounded ou . the outer side by the deep epigastric artery, on the inner by tlie edge of the rectus muscle, and below by Poupart's ligament; thifi space is called the triangle of Hesselbach. All the forms of inguinal hernia are designated scrotal, when they have descended into the scrotum ; the oblique inguinal is most fre- quently found in this situation, from its follo\\-ing the com-se of the spermatic cord. MUSCLES OF THE POSTERIOR WALL OF THE ABDOMEN, AND DIAPHRAGM. Dissection.—The next two muscles can be examined only when the viscera of the al>domen are removed. To see the quadratus lumboruni, it is also necessary to divide and draw aside the psoas muscle and the anterior lamella of the posterior aponeurosis of the transversalis. The QUADRATUS LUMBORUM will be seen to consist of two portions :—one, the external, arisixg from the ilio-lumbar ligament and adjoining part of the crest of the ilium for Uvo inches in extent, and inserted into the apices of the transverse processes of the four upper hunbar vertebrae (sometimes also last dorsal) and last rilj ; the other, the internal and anterior portion, arises l)y tendinous slijis from the transverse processes of the three or foui' lowev Imnbar vertebrae, and passes iqjwards to be inserted into the lower border of the last ril). if the muscle be cut across or removed, the middle lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis will be seen, attached to the apices of the transverse processes; the quadratus being en- closed between the two lamellae as in a sheath. Eelations.—Enclosed in the sheath formed by the aponeiirosis of the transversalis muscle, it is in relation, in front, with the kidney, colon, psoas magnus, and diaphragm. Behind, Imt also separated l)y its sheath, A\-it]i the erector si)ina}. Nerve-supply.—Anterior branches of the luml)ar nerves. The PSOAS PARVUS is a small and infre(]uent miiscle whii'li arises from the last doi'sal and first lumbar vertebra and from the interverteliral substance betAveen them, and terminates in a long slender tendon whicli ex])ands inferiorly and is inserted into the pectineal line and enunence. The tendon is continuoiis by its outer bord(M- A\ ith tlie iliac fascia. Relations.—It rests on tlie psoas magnus, and is covered in by the peiiloneum ; sujieriorly it passes beneath the ligamentum arcuatuni internum of the diaphragm. Nerve-supply.—Branches of the lumbar plexus.