CCELIAC AXIS. 419 Behind. Thoracic duct, Receptaculum chyli, Left lumbar veins, Vertebral column. Branches.—The branches of the abdominal aorta are the following: Spermatic, The PHRENIC ARTERlfiS are given off (frequently by a common trunk) from the anterior part of the aorta as soon as that vessel has emerged through the aortic opening. Passing obliquely outwards on the under surface of the diaphragm, each artery divides into two branches, an internal branch, which runs forwards and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side in front of the oesophageal open- ing ; and an external branch, which proceeds outwards towards the great circumference of the muscle, and sends branches to the supra- renal capsules. The phrenic arteries inosculate with branches of the internal mammary, intercostal, epigastric, oesophageal, gastric, hepatic, and supra-renal arteries. They are not unfrequently de- rived from the coeliac axis, or from one of its divisions, and some- times they give origin to the supra-renal arteries. The CCELIAC AXIS is the first single trunk given off by the abdominal aorta. It arises opposite the upper border of the first lumbar vertebra, is about half an iiich in length, and divides into three large brandies, gastric, hepatic, and splenic. Relations.—The trunk of the coeliac axis has in relation with it, in front, the lesser omentum ; on the right side, the right semilunar ganglion and lobus Spigelii of the liver ; on the left side, the left semilunar ganglion and cardiac portion of the stomach ; and beloic, the upper border of the pancreas and lesser curve of the stomach. It is completely surrounded by the solar plexus. The GASTRIC ARTERY (coronaria ventriculi), the smallest of the three branches of the cculiac axis, ascends between the two layers of the lesser omentum to the cardiac orifice of the stomach, then runs along the lesser curvature to the pylorus, and inosculates with the pyloric branch of the hepatic. It is distributed to the lower extremity of tlie oesophagus and lesser curve of the stomach ; and anastomoses with the oesophageal arteries, vasa brevia of the splenic artery, and pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. The HEPATIC ARTERY curves forward, and ascends along the right border of the lesser omentum to the liver, where it divides into two branches (right and left), which enter the transverse fissure, and are distributed along the portal canals to the right and left lobes.* 2 For the mode of disti-ibution of the hepatic artery within the liver, see the structural Anatomy of that organ in the Part on Splanchnology. SujDerior mesenteric. Inferior mesenteric. Supra-renal, Renal, Lumbar, Sacra media.