AETERIES OF THE BEAIN. 527 in uiuuber, and of capillary luinuteness ; the iudividual branches also of each system are distributed to independent areas, and only comninnicate with their fello^x's at the margins of those areas, by few and small communications ; hence they are distinguished as end arteries. As a necessary result of this arrangement, one artery cannot take the place or perform the work of another, as we so often find to be the case in other parts of the body, but if an artery becomes plugged, the area to which it is distributed becomes deprived of nourisliment and rapidly undergoes degeneration. The following is a brief description of the chief branches of the three arteries men- tioned above. Anterior Cerebral.—The medullary, branches of this trunk are fcAV in number; they are given off close to its origin from the in- ternal carotid, pass through the anterior part of the substantia per- forata, and are distributed to the front of the corpus striatum, and genu of the corpus callosum. The cortical branches are four in number. The first of these is distributed to the internal orbital convolutions; the second to the anterior part of the marginal con- volution, the anterior part of the middle frontal convolution, and the superior frontal convolution; tlie third to the inner surface of the hemisphere as far back as the ascending portion of the calloso- marginal fissure. The fourth supplies the cpiadrate lobe, and gives off a Ibranch which enters the corpus callosum and supjilies its structure. Middle Cerebral.—This is the largest artery of the three, and from its position is frequently named the Sylvian artery; it is distributed chieliy to the motor convolutions of the brain. The medullary branches are numerous; they enter the openings in the substantia perforata, and passing directly uj)wards are distributed to the extraventricular nuclei of the corpus striatum, and the back part of the nucleus caudatus. The main trunk of the middle cerebral passes upwards in the fissure of Sylvius, and as it lies against the island of Reil divides into four cortical brandies. The first of these is distributed to the outer part of the orbital surface and inferior frontal convolution ; the second to the posterior part of the middle frontal and three-fourths of the ascending frontal convolution ; the third to the rest of the ascending frontal, ascending parietal, and anterior part of the superior parietal, and the fourth to the in- ferior parietal (supra-marginal) and superior temporo-sphenoidal convolution. Posterior Cerebral.—Most of the viedullari/ branches of this artery enter the locus perforatus posticus, but a few are given off on the outer side of the crus cerebri; both sets are distributed to the thalamus opticus, crus cerebri, and corpora quadrigemina. The cortical branches are three in number ; the first passes to the an- terior part of the uncinate gyrus, the second to the back part of the same convolution and the lower part of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and the tliird to the occipital lobe. The convolutions to which this artery is distributed are for tlie most part sensory in function.