538 CRANIAL NERVES. ceediiig' from this origin it winds around tlie cms cerebri a-s a flattened band, and joins with its fellow in front of the tubei- cine- renin to loi'ni tlie o'ptic conviuissure (chiasma). Tlie optic tract in united with the eras cerebri and tuber cinereum, and is covei-ed Ijy the ])ia mater ; the coniiuissure is also connected with the tuber cinereum, from which it receives fibres, and the nerve beyond the commissure diverges from its fellow, becomes rounded in form, and is enclosed in a sheath derived from the araclmoid, which is con- tinued upon it to the eyeball. In passing through the optic foramen the optic nerve receives a sheath from the dura mater, which splits at this point into two layers : one, which becomes the periosteum of the orbit; the other, the one in question, which foi-ms a sheath for the nerve, and is lost in the sclerotic coat of the eyeball. After a short course within the orbit the optic nerve pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats, and exjjands into the nervous membrane of the eyeball, the retina. Near the globe the nerve is pierced by a small artery, arteria centralis retinae, which runs through the central axis of the nerve and reaches the inner layers of the retina, to which it distributes branches. The optic commissure lies in a groo^^e in front of the olivary body of the sphenoid bone; is bounded by the lamina cinerea in front, by the substantia perforata at each side, and by the tuber cinereum behind. Within the commissure the innermost fibres of each optic nerve cross each other to pass to the eye of the opposite side ; the outer fibres continue their course uninterruptedly to the eye of the corresponding side. Some fibres pass in an arched direction from one nerve to the other behind, ancf others, taking a similar course in front, connect the two retinae. THIRD PAIR.—MOTORES OCULORUM. The motor oculi, a nerve of moderate size, arises from the inner side of the cms cerebri, close to the pons Varolii, and passes forward between the posterior cerebral and superior cerebellar arteries. Its deep origin has been traced through the locus niger, to a grey nucleus beneath the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius and beneath the corpora quadrigemina. It pierces the dura mater immediately in front of the posterior clinoid process ; descends obliquely in the external waU of the cavernous sinus ; and divides into two branches which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure and between the two heads of the external rectus muscle. The superior branch ascends, and supplies the superior rectus and levator palpebrse. The inferior sends a branch beneath the optic nerve to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and a long branch to the inferior oblique muscle. From the latter a short thick branch is given to the ophthalmic ganglion, forming its inferior root. _ The brandies of the third nerve enter the muscles on their ocular side. In the cavernous sinus it receives one or two filaments from the carotid plexus, and one from the ophthalmic nerve.