t DEVELOPMENT OF DENTINE. 717 stratum intermedium. During these changes, and for long after, the epithelium constituting the enamel organ remains connected with that on the siirface of the jaAV by a narrow process or neck. The dentinal papillce are first observed as slightly opaque spots at some little distance from the surface and at points corresponding to the flash-like expansions above described ; they are almost as early in making their a]Dpearance as the latter, but are at first much slower in develojiment, so that the enamel organ is for some time very large in proportion to the dentinal papilla. Not only does the dentinal paiailla grow upwards into the cupjoed ca"\dty formed hj the lower part of the enamel germ, but it also gives off lateral processes which pass to the sides of that organ, and by a continuous upward growth come later to enclose it and form the dental sac. At first the dentinal papilla only differs from the rest of ■ the substance of the jaw in being more vascular and containing more cells, but it soon assumes the form of the future tooth, becoming simply conical for a canine, having two cusps for a bicuspid, and four or five for a molar. The cells on the surface of it become distinguished from the rest by their columnar form and close aggregation, so that they form a compact layer, which, from the part it plays in the formation of the dentine, has been named the membrana eboris, the individual cells being called odontoblasts. These cells are furnished with processes by means of Avhich they commimi- : cate with each other, or ; with the cells deeper in I the pulp ; some of the pro- ■ cesses also pass into the dentine when it is formed, and become continuous with the protoplasm con- I tained in the dentinal i tubules, ' The enamel germ for I the permanent tooth is l)roduced by an outgrowth of epithelial cells from the iside of the neck of the enamel organ of the tem- porary tooth ; this passes ' to the back and inner side Fio. 428.—Dental sac of a tolerablj' matuve human foetus, partly diaorammatic. a\ Outer layer, and «2 deeper layer of fibrous wall of sac. b, b. Stel- late reticulum of enamel organ, c, c. Outer cells and d, d, inner cells of enamel organ, f. Dental papilla with its capillaries, rj. i, i. Continuation of connective tissue of the pavietes of the sac into the dental papilla. of the latter, and undergoes tlie same changes in sha]ie and composi- tion as have been described above to take place in the eerm of tlif germ of the