REGIONS OF THE SKULL. 123 by the external pterygoid plate, above by the part of the great wing oi" the sphenoid external to the pterygoid ridge, and lower part of the squamous portion of the temporal l)one ; and externally by the zygomatic arch and ramus of the loAver jaAv. It contains the external l^tervgoid, part of the temporal, and internal pterygoid muscles ; and the "internal maxillary artery and inferior maxillary nerve, with their branches. At the inner side and upper part of the zygomatic fossa are two fissures, spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary. The spheuo-maxUlary fissure, horizontal in direction, opens into the orbit, and is situated between the great wing of the sphenoid and the superior maxillary bone. It is completed externally by the malar bone. The ptcrygo-muxillary fissura is vertical, and descends at a right angle from the extremity of the preceding. It is situated between the pterygoid jjrocess and the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, and transmits the internal maxillary artery. At the angle of junction of these two fissures is a small space, the spheno-maxillary fossa, bounded by the sphenoid, palate, and superior maxillary bones. The base of the skull presents an internal or cerebral, and an external or basilar surface. The cerebral siirface is divisible into three parts, which are named anterior, middle, and posterior fossa of the base of the cranium. The anterior fossa is somewhat convex at each side, where it corre- sponds with the roof of the orbits ; and concave in the middle, in the situation of the ethmoid bone and interior part of the body of the sphenoid. The latter and the free edges of the lesser mngs constitute its posterior boundary. It supports the anterior lobes of the cerebrum. In the middle line of this fossa, at its anterior part, is the crista cialli; immediately in front of that process, the foramen cmcum, which gives passage to a small vein from the nose to the superior longitudinal sinus ; and on each side, the cribriforvi plate with its foramina, for the transmission of the filaments of the olfactory nerve, and a slit for the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve. On the outer edges of the cribriform plate are seen the openings of the anterior and posterior internal orbital foramina. Farther ba,ck in the middle line is the olivary process, and, at the sides of this process, the optic foramina, anterior and middle clinoid processes, and vertical grooves for the internal carotid arteries. The middle fossa of the base, deeper than the preceding, is bounded in Iront by the lesser wing of the sphenoid ; behind, by the upper border of tlie petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and is divided into two lateral parts by the sella turcica. It is formed by the posterior part of the body, great wing, and spinous process of the .s]MienoicI, and by the petrous and sciuamous portion of the temijoral bones. In the centre of this fossa is the sella turcica, which lodges the pituitary gland and circular sinus, bounded in front bv the anterior and middle, and behind by the dorsum sellm and posterior climid processes. On each side of the sella tiu-cica is carotid groove lor the internal carotid artery, cavernous plexus of nerves