EXTERNAL CUNEIFOEM AND CUBOID. 171 Articulations.—With/owr bones : scaphoid, internal and external cuneiform, and second metatarsal bone. EXTERNAL CUNEIFORM.—The external cuneiform is intermediate in size Ijetween the tw^o preceding, and placed, like the middle, with the broad end upwards, and sharp extremity downwards. It may be identitied by a triangular articular facet on its outer side. It presents for examination four surfaces, and a suiDerior and inferior extremity. The anterior mrface is wedge-shaped and articular throughout its entire depth, for articulation with the third meta- tarsal. The 'posterior surface^ also wedge-shaped, is articular only in its upper two-thirds, the lower part being rough for the attacliment of ligaments. The exttrnal surface presents posteriorly a large smooth oval articular surface for the cuboid bone, and anteriorly at its upper angle a small facet for the base of the fourth metatarsal. The internal sv.rface also has two facets separated by a rougli de- pression, one along the posterior margin for the middle cuneiform, and the other at the upper and anterior angle of the bone for tlie Ijase of the second metatarsal. The 'wpper extremity is flat, of an oblong s([uare form, and bevelled posteriorly, at the expense of the outer surface, into a sharp edge ; the loioer extremity forms a rounded I'idge which serves for the attachment of the tibialis posticus and l)art of the flexor brevis hallucis. Recognition.—Hold the bone with the ilat dorsal surface upwards and the narrower wedge-sliaped articular surface directed 1)ackwards ; the large oval articular facet for the cuboid will then itoint to the side to which the l)one belongs. Articulations.—With six bones : scaphoid, middle cuneiform, cuboid, and second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To the flexor brevis hallucis and tibialis posticus. CUBOID.—The cuboid Ijone is irregularly cnboid in shaj^e, and marked on its under surface by a deep groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. It presents for examination six surfaces, three articular and three non-articular. The nan-articular surfaces ave—superior, which is slightly convex, and assists in forming the dorsum of the foot; inferior, marked b}- a prominent ridge, the tuherositij, and a deep groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus ; and external, the smallest of the whole, and deeply notched by the commencement of the peroneal groove. The articular surfaces are --l)ostenor, of large size, and concavo-convex, to articulate with the OS calcis; anterior, of smaller size, divided by a slight ridge into two facets, for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones ; and internal, a small oval articular facet, \ipon a large and quadrangular surface, lor the external cuneiform bone. Recognition,—If the bone be held so that the plantar surface, with the i.eroneal groove, look downwards, and the largest articular .surface backwards, the small non-articular surface, marked by the deep notch, will point to the side to which the bone belongs *