397 SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. The ANTERIOR CEREBRAL ARTERY passes forwards in the great longitudinal fissiu'e between the two hemisjjheres of the brain ; then curves liackwards along the corpus callosum to its posterior extremity. Near its commencement it gives off medullary branches whicli pierce the anterior perforated space to be distributed to the anterior extremity of the caudate nucleus of the corpus striatum ; at its ter- mination it gives off a branch to the corjjus callosum. The two anterior cerebral arteries are connected soon after their origin by a short anastomosing trunk, the anterior communicating artery. The MIDDLE CEREBRAL ARTERY, or Sylvian artery, larger than the preceding, j^asses outwards along the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into branches, which supply the anterior and middle lobes of the brain, and the island of Reil. It gives off medullary branches which j^ass through the substantia perforata to the back part of the caudate nucleus, the lenticular nucleus and neighbouring part of the thalamus opticus. The POSTERIOR COMMUNICATING ARTERY, variable in size, sometimes douljle, and sometimes altogether wanting, passes back- wards and inosculates with the posterior cerebral, a branch of the basilar artery. Occasionally it is so large as to take the place of the posterior cerebral artery. The ANTERIOR CHOROID is a small branch which is given off from the internal carotid, near the origin of the posterior communi- cating artery, and passes beneath the edge of the middle lobe of the brain to enter the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is dis- tributed to the choroid plexus, and to the walls of the middle cornu. A more minute descxdption of the arteries of the brain, their communications and distribution, will be given along with the de- scriptive anatomy of that organ in Part VI. of this work. SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. . The subclavian artery on the right side arises from the innomi- nate artery, opposite the sterno-clavicular articulation ; on the left, from the arch of the aorta. The right is consequently shorter than the left, and situated nearer the anterior wall of the chest; it is also somewhat greater in diameter, from being a branch of a branch, in place of a division from the main trunk. On both sides the artery terminates at the lower border of the first rib, being there continued into the axillary artery. The course of the subclavian artery is divisible, for the sake of precision and surgical observation, into three portions ; the scalenus anticus forming the means of division. The first portion of the right and left arteries differs in its course and relations in correspondence with the dissimilarity of origin above referred to. The other two portions are alike on both sides. The first portion, on the right side, ascends obliquely outwards to Llie inner border of the scalenus anticus. On the Left side it ascends