46o VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. VEINS OF THE UPPER EXTREMITY. The veins of tlie ujiper extremity are deejD and superlicial. The deep veins accompany the branches and trunks of the arteries, and constitute their vence comites. The vente comites of the radial and ulnar artery are enclosed in the same sheath with those vessels, and terminate at the bend of the elbow in the brachial veins. The brachial vense comites are situated one at each side of the artery, and open into the axillary vein ; the axillary becomes the sub- clavian, and the subclavian unites with the internal jugular to form the innominate vein. The superficial veins of the arm are the— Anterior ulnar vein, Cephalic vein. Posterior ulnar vein. Median vein, Basilic vein. Median basilic, Radial vein, Median cephalic. The anterior ulnar vein collects the venous blood from the inner and palmar border of the hand, and ascends along the anterior aspect of the inner side of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where it joins with the posterior ulnar to form the basilic vein. The posterior ulnar vein commences on the dorsum of the hand by the ulnar termination of the venous arch, which receives the digital veins from the fingers, and, after being joined by a large vein, the vena salvatella, frqm the little finger, ascends along the posterior aspect of the forearm to the bend of the elbow, where it turns for- Avard and terminates by joining the anterior ulnar vein. The basilic vein {^aa-iklKos, royal, or princii^al), formed by the union of the anterior and posterior ubiar veins, ascends along the inner side of the upper arm, receives the median basilic vein, and near its middle jjierces the fascia; it then passes upwards to the axilla, and being joined by the brachial venae comites, becomes the axillary vein. The radial vein commences on the dorsum of the hand, by the radial termination of the venous arch, which receives the veins of the fingers. This origin is increased by the junction of some small veins from the thumb, and a branch from the venae comites of the deep palmar arch. The radial vein ascends the dorsal side of the forearm to a little below its middle, then lies on its anterior aspect to the bend of the elbow, where it unites with the median cephalic, to form the cephalic vein. The cephalic vein (KetpaXrj, the head) ascends along the outer side of the upper arm to its superior third ; it then enters the groove between the pectoralis major and deltoid muscle, where it is in rela- tion with the descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and terminates beneath the clavicle in the axillary vein. A large communiediting branch some-