LIVER. 746 the vascuhu' plexus, the columns or solid portions of the network constituting the secretory ]iortion of tlie gland ; the vessels are not in absolute contact with the liepatic cells, but are separated from them by a membrane formed of flattened cells, the sjiace left between this membrane and the capillary wall forming a lympli cliannel. In order to imderstand the relations which the cells l>ear to the vessels and ducts, it will be necessary to trace the two latter from the transverse fissure to the interior of the liver, and to note their arrangement in the jjortal canals, around the lobules, and in the substance of the lobules. The portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct run to- gether in the interioi' of the li^'er, beiui: contained in channel - formed by a layer of connective tissue called Glisson's cap- side, the channels re- ceiving the name of portal canals; the hepatic veins run a totally independent course, and terminate in the inferior vena ca^ a, where it lies against the under and posterior part of the liver. Glisson's capsule is the areolar tissue which envelops the hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, during their passage through the transverse fissure, and which continues to surround them in the interlobular fissures. It also constitutes the propei- capsule of the entire organ. Hence arises a division of the capsule into two portions, vaginal and inventing. The vaginal portion is that which invests the hepatic artery, hepatic duct, and portal vein, in the portal canals ; in the large canals it completely surroimds these vessels, but in the smaller i- situated only on that side which is occupied by the artery and duet. The investing jjortion is that which covers the exterior of the organ. The portal vein enters the liver at the transverse fissure, and ramifies throughout its structure in the ])ortal canals ; in the smaller canals Glisson's capsule only envelops the artery and duct, so that the portal vein is in direct contact with the lobules. The brandies of the portal vein are—vaginal, interlobular, and lobular. The vaginal branches are those which, being given off in the portal canals, have to pass through the sheath (vagina) of Glisson's capsule, previously to entering the interlobular spaces. Fig. 454.—Cells of the liver. One lai-ge mass show^s the shape they assume, by mutual presse.re. (a) The same free, when they become spheroidal. (0) More magnified. («) During active digestion containing refracting globules like fat. In