648 ORGAN OF HEARING. receives nerves throueh the lamina cribrosa, and contains otolitli- similar to those of the utricle. It is connected by means of a minute passage (canalis reuniens) with a small canal, which is contained within the membranous part of the cochlea, and is called scala media; it also sends a small canal along the aquaeductus vesti- buli, which ends blindly at the surface of the petrous bone. The membranous semicircular canals are about one-third the size of the osseous canals which lodge them ; they o])en into the utricle. They have dilatations which correspond to the ampulhf, but the dilatation of the membranous canals is proportional!\ greater than that of the osseous ones, so that at these places they nearly fill the osseous cavities in which they lie. Here also tlit: wall is much thickened, and on it branches of the vestibular nervu are thickly distributed. In the ampullae the tunica propria is very thick, and causes the wall to project into the cavity in the *.orm of a transverse partition (septum transversum); on this septum the epithelial cells are columnar, and surmounted by fine 10. 378.—Section tbrough one of the coils of tlie Cochlea, st, scala tyni- pani; sv, scala vestibuli ; cc, canalis cochleae or scala media ; e, membrane of Beissner; Us to hp, lamin i spiralis membranacea; II , limbus laminae spiralis; s> , sulcus spiralis; gs, gan- glion spirale seated on 51 r, thenerviis cocblearis, indi- cated by the black line ; Iso, lamina spiralis ossea ; t, membrana tectoria; h, niembrana basilaris ; c 0, organ of Corti; l.rp, liga- meiitum spirale ; c c, cells of Claudius, i. Inner rod of Corti. 2. Outer rod of Corti. but stiff hair-like processes (fila acustica). These canals contain endolymph, and have some few otoliths distributed over their epi- thelial lining. The membranous part of the cochlea* not only comi^letes the lamina spiralis, but also encloses a tube called the canalis membranacea or scala media, within which is a very complicated structure called the organ of Corti. The description of tlie membranous cochlea, therefore, resolves itself into a description of this canal, its boundaries, and the parts contained in it. Scala Media.—This canal is triangular in cross section, and i bounded externally by the osseous wall of the labyrinth, lined b its proper membrane. Internally it'is botmded by a thin shee * To understand the description of the membranous cochlea, it is necessary tha the student should constantly refer to Fig. 378.