622 ORGANS OF SENSE. eye. It i.s coutiimouw posteriorly witli the outer slieatli of tlie optic nerve derived from the dura mater, and is pierced by the ciliary nerves and arteiies. Anteriorly its hbres are continuous with the transparent ones of the cornea. It is thickest behind, ljut is strengthened in front l)y an expansion of the I'ecti tendons, forming the tunica albuginea; this is covered for the greater part of its extent by the conjunctiva, and by reason of its bi'illiant wliiteness gives occasion to the common expression, "the Avhite of the eye." In structure the sclerotic is found to consist of white fibrous tissue, witli some feAv elastic fibres and a great number of stellar nucleated cells ; the fibres are arranged in bvmdles which run Ijoth longitudi- nally and transversely, the superficial layers being chiefly longitu- dinal. The inner surface of the sclerotic is in contact with the choroid, and is connected to it by means of numerous tlireads of FifJ. 356.—General diagr,im of the eye. i. Cornea. 1'. Corneal conjunctiva. 2. Sclerotic. 2'. Outer sheath of tlie optic nerve, which is seen to be con- tinuous with the sclerotic. 3. Vascular layers of the choroid. 3'. Pigmentary layer. 4. Radiating por- tion of the ciliary muscle. 4'. Cut fibres of circular portion, or muscle of Mill- ler. 5,5. Ciliary processes. 6. Posterior chamber of the aqueous humour. 7,7. Iris. 8. Optic nerve. 8'. Optic cumulus. 8". Tel- low spot. g. Ora serrata. 10. Canal of Hannover. 11. Anterior chamber of the aqueous humour. 12. Crystalline lens. 13. Chamber of the vitreous humour. 14. Canal of Schlemm. r. Nervous layers of the retina. Bacillary and molecular layers of the retina. fibrous tissue and by small vessels ; these being tinged \\ith the pigmentary matter of the choroid have a brown ap]:)earance, and hence the term lamina fusca is applied. The lamina fusca is lined by a layer of endothelial cells and foi-ms the outer wall of the peri- choroidal lymph space. At the entrance of the optic nerve a tliin cribriform lamella, lamina cribrosa,* takes the place of the sclerotic ; it is pierced by a number of minute openings for the passage of the nervous filaments, and in the centre by a larger opening called porus opticus, for the entrance to the eyeball of the arteria cen- tralis retiufe. The cornea {comeios, horny) is the transparent prominent layer which constitutes the anterior fifth of the globe of the eye. When * The lamina cribrosa is generally described as the continuation of the sclerotic, but ir, seems more probable (as Dr. T. Reid suggests) that it is continuous with the cSd ; indeed, in an inflamed eyeball the fibres of the lamina have been d.stmctly traced into the choroid.