INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. ii8 extending from between tlie two Jii'st incisor teeth to the chin, is a sliglit ridge, crista mmUdis, which indicates the point of conjunction of the lateral halves of the Ijone in the young subject, tlie symphysis. The ridge expands below into a ti-iangular eminence, tlie mental protuberance (or mentum), and this at the lower edge of the Ijone is marked by a slight depression, the menial dimple. Immediately external to this ridge is a depression which gives oi'igin to the de- pressor laljii inferioris muscle ; and, corresponding with the i-oot of the lateral incisor tooth, another depression, the incisive fossa, for the levator labii inferioris. A few fibres of the orbicularis oris (accessory fibres) are attached to the Imse of the alveolar jirocess, immediately aboA^e the incisive fossa. Fartlier outwards is an oblique opening, the mental foramen, for the exit of the mental ner^■e and inferior dental artery ; and below tliis foramen, the commencement of a ridge, the external oblique ridge, which gives attachment to the depressor anguli oris. Near the posterior part of this surface is a rough impression made by the masseter muscle ; and, immediately in fi'ont of this impression, a groove for the facial artery. The external surface of the lower border of the bone gives attachment to some fibres of the platysma myoides muscle. The Imccinator muscle arises from the base of the alveolar process as far forwards as the first molar tooth. The projecting tiiberosity at the posterior extremity of the lower jaw, at the point where the body and ramus meet, is the angle. Upon the internal surface of the body of the bone, at the sym- physis, are two small pointed tubercles (mental tubercles); imme- FiG. 117.—The lower jaw. i. Body. 2. Ramus. 3. Symphysis. 4. Fossa for tlie depressor labii inferioris muscle. 5. Mental foramen. 6. External oblique ridge. 7. Groove for the facial artery ; the situation of the groove is marked by a notch in the bone a little in iront of the figure. 8. The angle. 9. Extremity of the raylo-hyoidean ridge. 10. Coronoid process. 11. Condyle. 12. Sigmoid notcli. 13. Inferior dental foramen. 14. Mylo-hyoidean groove. 15. Alveolar process, i. Middle and latei-al incisor tooth of one side. c. Canine tooth, b. Two bicuspids, m. Three molars. diately beneath these, two other tubercles less marked ; beneath them a ridge, and beneath the ridge two depressions of some size. These four points give attachment, from alwve downwards, to the genio-hyo-glossi, genio-hyoidei, part of the mylo-hvoidei, and digastric muscles. Running outwards into the body of the bone from the above ridge is a prominent line, the mylo-hyoidean ridge, which gives attachment to the mylo-hyoid muscle ; aboA^e its pos- terior termination, and near the margin of the ah-eolar process, the