i6i FEMUR. rough with and inserted. The upper border of the great trochanter gives attachment near its anterior extremity to the gemellus superior, obturator in- ternus, and gemellus inferior muscles, and a little behi'ud this to the pyriformis muscle. Passing downwards from the trochanter major in front of the bone is an oblique ridge, which forms the inferior boundary of the neck, the spiral line, Avhich if traced down- wards will l)e found to lead into the upper part of the linea asj^era ; in well-marked specimens, two snaall tubercles will l)e found on it, one near the great trochanter, and the other lower down ; they are called the external and internal cervical tubercles. Behind there is another oblique ridge, the intertrochanteric line, which terminates in a rounded tubercle on the posterior and inner side of the bone, the trochanter minor, for the insertion of the psoas and iliacus. The shaft of the femur is convex in front, and covered muscles; and somewhat concave and raised into prominent ridge behind, the linea aspera. The linea aspera near the upper extremity of the bone divides into three branches. -^ mm: K • The anterior branch is con- ITOlfflv'^^^. tinned forwards in front of the 'lesser troclianter, and is con- tinuous with the spiral line; tlie middle is continued directly upwards into the lesser troch- anter ; and the posterior, broad and sti'ongly marked, ascends to the base of the trochanter major. Towards the lower extremit}' of the bone the linea aspera divides into two ridges, which descend to the two condyles, and enclose a triangular ,space upon which rests the popliteal artery. The internal supra- condylar ridge is less marked than the external, and presents a broad and shallow groove for the passage of the femoral artery. The nutrient foramen is situ- ated in or near the linea aspera, at about one-third from its upper extT'emity, and is dii'ected obliquely from below upwards. The outer side of the shaft im- mediately abo\-e the condyles is very much thicker than"the inner side, a point to be borne in mind in division of the femur for the cure of knock-knee. 12 Fio. 140. — The right femur, seen on its an- terior as))ect. 1. The shaft. 2. Tlie head. 3. Tlie neck. 4. Great trochan- ter. 5. Spiral line. 6. Lesser trochanter. 7. External con- dyle. 8. Inter- nal condyle, g. Tuberosity lor the attach- ment of the external lateral ligament. 10. Fossa for the tendon of ori- gin of the pop- litens muscle, n. Tuberosity for the attach- ment of the internal lateral ligament. 12. Adductor spine.