ADDUCTOR MUSCLES. 359 ing muscle, behind; the crural nerve and iliacus muscle to the outer side ; and the femoral artery, by which it is slightly overlaid, to the inner side. Nerve-supply.—Branches from the lumbar plexus. ■ The PECTINEUS is a flat and quad- rangular muscle; it arises from the pectineal line {peden, a crest) of the os pubis, and from the surface of bone in front of that line. It is inserted into the ridge leading from the lesser tro- rhanter to the linea aspera of the fiiaur. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the jiubic portion of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femo- ral artery and vein and internal saphe- nous vein, and lower down with the I >rofunda artery. By. its posterior sur- face with the capsule of the hip-joint, (ibturator externus, and adductor brevis, tlie obturator vessels being interj)osed. By its external border with the psoas, the femoral artery resting on the line of interval. By its internal border with the outer edge of the adductor longus. Obturator hernia is situated directly bphind this miiscle, which forms one of its coverings. Nerve - supply. — This muscle re- ceives one branch from the anterior crural, and another from the obturator. The ADDUCTOR LONGUS (adducere, i to draw to), the most superficial of the three adductors, arises by a round and thick tendon from the front surface of the OS pubis, immediately below the angle of that bone; and, assuming a flattened and expanded form as it descends, is inserted into the middle third of the inner lip of the linea aspera. Fig. 239.—I 3. Pubes. Femur. 2. Ilium. 4. Obturator ex- ternus. 5. Upper portion of adductor magnus. 6. Upper portion of adductor brevis. 7. Lower {)art of the same muscle. 8. Middle portion of adductor magnus,- partly covered by ad- ductor brevis. 9. Lower part of adductor magnus, terminat- ing in a round tendon, 10. n. Opening for femoral artery. 12. Opening for the passage of the internal circumflex vessels. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, and near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein. By its posterior surface with the adductor brevis and magnus, anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve, and, near its insertion, profunda artery and vein. By its outer border with the pectineus ; by the inner border with the gracilis. •