SECEETING GLANDS. 62 mose gland. The salivary glands, ]janci-eas, niainiuarv gland, tlic acluymal gland, and Brunner'.s gland.s of the duodenum belong to tins clas.s. The racemose gland presents to the naked eye the appear- ance ot a number of little lobules, held together bv connective tissue, and by the small blood-vessels A\'hich enter or leave them. Each obule IS composed of a number of saccules, called acini, lined bv large protoplasmic cells, with nuclei near their attached mai-giiis. The cells are so large as ahiiost to fill the entire saccule, onlv a small central caA'ity or lumen being left between them. The cells are supported by a framework of connective tissue, which ser\-es also to connect the saccules, and to support a netwoi-k of capillarv vessels which supplies blood to the gland cells. The acini of a lobule open into a common duct, and the ducts from the lobules unite to form I I Fig. 74.—Jlocles of termiuation of uerves iu salivary glands, i aud 2. Braucliiug of the nerves between the salivary cells. 3. Termination of the nerve in the nucleus. 4. Union of a ganglion cell with a salivary cell. 5. Varicose nerve fibres eutering the cylindrical cells of the excretory ducts. larger ducts, which generally terminate in a single excretory channel for the whole organ ; sometimes, however, as in the lachrymal and sublingual glands, the terminal ducts are eight or ten in number. ' The ducts are lined with cylindrical epithelium. The blood-vessels distributed to glands are numerous and of large size. They are remarkable for their rapid inci-easc and diminution in size, according to the activity of the gland, o)' the reverse. The nerves distributed to glands are iiartly derived from the cerebro- spinal and partly from the sympathetic system ; many of the latter are distributed to the blood-vessels, and serve to regulate the supi")ly of blood to the gland. The nerves distributed to the sali\-ary glands I'orm a plexus Ijctween the lolniles, in the midst of which small ganglia are found. The plexus is composed cliieily of medullated