674 FCETAI, CIRCULATION. Passing along the aorta, a small quantity of this mixed blood is distributed by the external iliac arteries to the lower extremities; the greater portion is conveyed by the hypogastric branches of the internal iliac arteries to the placenta ; the hypogastric arteries pass forwards by the side of the fundus of the bladder, and upwards along the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, where they become the umbilical arteries. From a careful consideration of this circulation, we perceive—ist. That the pure blood from the placenta is distributed in considerable quantity to the liver, before entering the general circulation. Hence arises the abundant nutrition of that organ, and its enormous size in comparison with other viscera. 2dly. That the right auricle is the scene of meeting of a double cui-rent; the one coming from the inferior cava, the other from the superior, and that they must cross each other in their resjiective courses. The inferior cava opens almost directly into the left auricle ; and, by the aid of the Eustachian valve, the current in the cava is almost entirely excluded from the right auricle. 3dly. That the blood which circulates through the arch of the aorta comes directly from the placenta; and although mixed with the impure blood of the inferior cava, yet is propelled in such abundance to tlie head and upper extremities, as to provide for the increased nutrition of those parts, and prepare them, by their greater size and development, for the functions which they are required to perform at the instant of birth. 4thly. That the blood circulating in the descending aorta is very impure, being obtained principally from the returning current in the superior cava; a small quantity only being derived from the left ventricle. Yet it is from this impure blood that the nutrition of the lower extremities is provided ; hence we are not surprised at their insignificant develojjment at birth. 5thly. That there are three places where a certain admixture of impure with purer blood occurs, viz., (i) at the junction of the ductus venosus and inferior cava, (2) in the right auricle, and (3) at the junction of the ductus arteriosus and aorta ; the first of these is tlae only important mixture. After birth, the foramen ovale becomes gradually closed by a inembranous layer, which is developed from the margin of the opening on the left side and from below upwards, and completely separates the two auricles. The situation of the foramen is seen in the adult heart, on the septum auricularum, and is called the fossa ovalis; the prominent margin of this opening is tlie annnlus ovalis. As soon as the lungs have become inflated by the first act of inspiration, the blood of the pulmonary artery courses through its right and left branches into the lungs, to be returned to the left auricle by the ])ulmonary veins. Thus the pidmonary circulation is established. Then tlie ductus arteriosus contracts and degenerates into an impervious fibrous cord, serving in after-life simply as a