STRUCTURE OF ARTERIES. 44 than in the larger branches. Wliere freedom of circulation is (jf vital inq^ortance, this communication of the arteries is very remai k- able, as in the circle of Willis in the cranium. It is also strikingly seen in situations where obstruction is most likely to occur, as iut the distribution to the alimentary canal, around joints, or in the hand and foot. Upon this free communication existing evei'ywhere between arterial liranches is founded the principle of cure by the ligature of large arteries ; the ramifications of the branches given offl from the artery above the ligature inosciilate with those which pro- • ceed from the trunk of the vessel below the ligature; these anas-- tomosing branches enlarge and constitute a collateral circulation,, in which several large l)ranches perform the office of the single- obliterated trunk. Ai'teries pursue a fairly straight coui'se, l)ut in .some parts they ■ are tortuous ; this is the case in the arteries of the lips and uterus,. and in those passing up to the base of the brain. In some in.stances • the tortuous course is to permit of free motion of the parts crossed by the vessel; in other.s • it appears to have the effect of diminishing the force of the propulsion of' the blood. Structure of Arteries.. —Arteries are composed of three coats, external,. middle, and internal. The external coatt {tunica adventitia) is firm and strong; it is thin in the large arteries, Init' thicker than the middle coat in arteries of small and medium size, and is- composed of white fibrous - and elastic tissue. The white fil)res are arranged in close bundles, which run for the most part dia- gonally or obliquely across • the vessel ; they form by their inter- communica- tion a firm felted mem- with minute in- which lie a Drane, m Fifi. 57.—A small artery. At h, the homogeneous intei-nal layer; c, middle tunic formed of nn- striped muscular fibre ; (f, the external conncc- tive-tissue tunic. terspaces, numerous branched connective-tissue corpuscles. Among the white fibres a few elastic fibres are found; these are most numerous in the inner layers (that is to say, near the middle coat), and are arranged longitudinally. The interlacement of the fibres is closest in the inner layers, and becomes looser as we approach