213 KNEE-JOINT. crural from the lumbar plexus ; branches of the great sciatic, and of the nerve to the quadratus femoris, from the sacral plexus. Bursse.—Nine bursse are found in the neighbourhood of the hip- joint, five in front and four behind. Those on the front are as follows :—One of large size between the ilio-psoas tendon and the capsule, which often communicates with the cavity of the joint; another between the tendon of the gluteus medius and the great trochanter ; a third between the gluteus minimus and the great trochanter ; a fourth between the gluteus maximus and vastus ex- ternus ; and a fifth of large size and often multilocular between the gluteus maximus and great trochanter. The bursas situated at the back of the joint are :—One beneath the tendon of the obturator externus, another between the quadratus femoris and great tro- chanter, a third between the capsule and common tendon of the obturator internus and genielli, and a fourth between the quadratus femoris, obturator externus, and the back part of the capsule. 2. KNEE-JOINT.—The knee is a ginglymus articulation of large size, and provided with numerous ligaments ; the latter may be divided into an external and an internal set. External ligaments. ^Anterior or ligamentuni patellae. Posterior or ligamentum posticum Winslowii, Internal lateral, I Two external lateral, I Capsular ligament, 'Anterior or external crucial. Posterior or internal crucial. Transverse, Internal ligaments. Ligamentum mucosum, } r , Two ligamenta alaria, hgaments. Two semilunar fibro-cartilages, Synovial membrane. The anterior ligament, or ligamentuni patellae, is the prolonga- tion of the tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh downwards to the tubercle of the tibia. Between the upper part of this liga- ment and the knee-joint a pad of fat is placed, and between its lower part and tlie tibia there is a synovial bursa. The posterior ligament, or ligamentum posticum Winslowii, IS a broad expansion of ligamentous fibres, which covers the whole of the posterior aspect of the joint. It is divisible into two lateral portions, which invest the condyles of the femur, and a central portion which is depressed, and formed by the interlacement of fasciculi passing in diflferent directions. The strongest of these fasciculi is derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus, and passes obliquely upwards and outwards from the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia to the external condvle of the femur. Other accessory fasciculi are given off by the tendon of the popliteus