67 THE SKIN. mucosuBi. As the cells desiccate, the colour of the granules is lost, so that the cells of the superficial layers are very little darker iii the skin of the negro than in that of the Avhite man. The pores of the epidermis are the openings of the sweat ducts, liair follicles, and sebaceous glands. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the derma, which enter its structure through the areola) of the under surface of the corium, divide into innumerable intermediate vessels, which form a- rich capillary plexus in the superficial strata of the skin and in its papil- lary layer. In the papillce of some parts of the derma, as in the longitudinal plications beneath the nail, the capillary vessels form simple loops, but in other papillae they are convoluted to a greater or less degree in proportion to the size and importance of the jjapilla). CaiDillary jDlexuses are also found around the groups of fat vesicles, the sweat glands, and hair follicles. The lymphatic vessels form, in the suj^erficial strata of the derma, a plexus, the meshes of which are interwoven with those of the capillary and nervous plexus. In some parts of the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, lymphatics pass into the papillae, but do not reach their siuumit. The nerves of the derma, after entering the areolae of the deeper part of the corium, divide into minute fasciculi, which form a ter- FiG. 78.—Three groups of tactile papillae from the skin of the index finger, in vertical section. Some are supplied with vascular loops, some with tactile cor- puscles. minal plexus in the upper strata of the corium. From this plexus the primitive filn-es j)ass off to their distribution as loops, in the papillaj. In the less sensitive parts of the skin the loops are simple and more or less acute in their bend, in conformity with the figure of the papillae. In the sensitive parts, and especially in the tactile papillae of the pulps of the fingers, the nerves terminate in special sense organs, namely, end bulbs. Pacinian bodies, and tactile cor- puscles ; the two former have already been described (p. 39). Small ^Wlcose nerve fil)rils pass into the epidermis, and penetrate between tne cells of Malpighian layer, to terminate in minute bulbous ends, without anastomosing. The tactile corpuscles (discovered by Wagner and Meissner) are oval bodies about inch long, having exteriiallv a capsule of connective tissue with oval nuclei, some of the fibres "being wound round horizontally and in many places penetrating into the central