VEINS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 451 vein; a considerable trunk, tlie deep facial, or anterior internal maxillary, which returns the blood from the spheno-maxillary fossa, from the infraorbital, jjalatine. Vidian, and spheno-palatine veins, and joins the facial beneath the zygomatic process of the superior maxillary bone ; and the veins corresponding with the branches of the facial artery. It receives also a communicating branch from the temporo-maxillary, given off from that trunk near the angle of the jaw, and often, also, the ranine vein. The internal maxillary vein receives the veins from the zygo- matic and pterygoid fossae, which correspond generally with the branches of the internal maxillary artery ; they are so numerous and communicate so freely as to constitute a j^terygoid plexus, which is placed between the temporal and external pterygoid muscles. This plexus sends a small branch through the foramen Vesalii to join the cavernous sinus. Passing backwards behind the neck of the lower jaw, the internal maxillary joins the temporal to form the temporo- maxillary vein. The temporal vein commences on the vertex of the head by a plexiform network, which is continuous with the frontal, opjoosite temporal, auricular, and occipital veins. The ramifications of this plexus form an anterior and posterior branch which unite imme- diately above the zygoma; the trunk is here joined by another large vein, the middle temporal, which collects the blood from the temporal muscle and outer segment of the orbit, and pierces the temporal fascia near the root of the zygoma. The temj)oral vein then descends in the substance of the parotid gland and a little below the neck of the lower jaw joins with the internal maxillary to form the temporo-maxillary vein. The temporal vein receives the anterior aurictdar, masseteric, transverse facial, and parotid veins. The temporo-maxillary vein, a short trunk formed by the union of the temporal and internal maxillary, passes downwards in the substance of the parotid gland, lying in front of the external carotid artery; near the angle of the jaw it divides into two branches, one of which passes over the surface of the sterno-mastoid to form with the posterior auricular the external jugular ; the other joins the facial -s'ein, and forms with it a common trunk which ends in the internal jugular. The posterior auricular vein communicates Avith the plexus of the vertex of the head, and descends behind the ear to join the .superficial division of the temporo-maxillary and form the external jugular vein. It receives in its course the veins of the external ear and the stylo-mastoid vein. The occipital vein, commencing posteriorly in the plexus at the vertex of the head, follows the direction of the occipital artery, and passing deeply beneath the muscles of the back part of tlie neck, terminates in the deep cervical vein. It communicates with the lateral sinus by means of a large branch which passes through the mastoid foramen, the mastoid vein.