OCCIPITAL BONE. 87 the sacrum, the ktter with the sacral cornua. The lateral wings sometimes become connected witli the sacrum, and convert the notches tor the fifth pair of sacral nerves into foramina. The remaining three pieces diminish in size from above downwards. The borders of the bone are narrow, and give attachment to the coccygeus muscle ; the inferior extremity is rounded, and has at- tached to it the fibres of the external sphincter ani. Development.—By four centres, one for each piece, but, occa- sionally, one of the upper three pieces has an additional centre. Ossification commences in the first j)iece soon after birth ; in the second, between five and ten years ; in the third, between ten and fifteen ; and in the fourth, between fifteen and twenty. The pieces unite at an earlier jDeriod than the bodies of the sacrum, the first two pieces first, then the third and fourth, and lastly the second and third. Between forty and sixty years, the coccyx becomes consoli- dated Avith the sacrum ; this event taking place later in the female than in the male. . Articulations.—With the sacrum. Attachment of Muscles.—To three pairs, and one single muscle ; on each side the coccygeus, behind the gluteus maximus, in front th^ levator ani, at.the. tip the s^Dhincter ani. OF THE SKULL. The skull is divisible into two parts, the cranium and the face ; the former being adapted, by its forna, structure, and strength, to contain and protect the brain ; the latter, the chief organs of sense. The Cranium is composed of eight separate bones—viz., the Occipital, Two temporal. Two parietal. Sphenoid, Frontal, Ethmoid. OCCIPITAL BONE. This bone is situated at the posterior part and base of the cranium. It is trapezoid in figure, and divisil)le into two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. External Surface.—Is convex from above downwards and from side to side. Crossing the middle of the bone transversely, from one lateral angle to the other, is a prominent ridge, which, as shown in the diagram, commonly consists of an upper and lower line wdth a smooth surface betAveen them. The upper is called the hiqhest curved line, and the loAver the mjierior cicrved line. In the middle of the latter is a projection called the external occipital prottcberance, for the attachment of the li(jament%im nuchas; and descending from it a small vertical ridge, the external occipital crest. Above and below tlie superior curved line the surface is rough, for the attachment of muscles. About three-quarters of an inch beloAV the superior curved