LOBES OF THE CEREBELLUM. 517 the cerebellum, and is called the superior vermiform process ; the lower part is lodged within the vallecula, and is named the inferior vermiform process. The superior vermiform process is very indis- tinctly demarcated from the upper surface of the hemispheres, the folia of the latter being continued into it; at its anterior border, about eight folia form the central lobe, a portion of which is con- tinued upwards on to the superior medullary velum or valve of Vieussens, and is termed, from its shape, the lingula. The posterior superior lobe is only represented in the superior vermiform process by a single well-marked lamina, the folia cacuminis. The inferior vermiform process is divisible into four lobes, namely : (i) the tuber vallce situated in the incisura jDosterior, and connecting the postero- inferior and slender lobes of the two sides ; (2) in front of this the pyramid, a small, obtusely pointed eminence connecting the biventral lobes ; (3) the uvida, jDlaced between the two tonsils ; and (4) the nodule or laminated tubercle, forming a free pointed anterior termi- nation to the process. Connecting the uvula on each side with the tonsil is a ridge of grey matter, the furroioed band. On each side of the nodule is a thin layer of white matter, the posterior medullary velum; it has a membranous texture, and terminates anteriorly in a crescentic border; laterally, each process can be traced into the flocculus. Between the posterior veluni and the nodule and uvula is a deep fossa which is known as the siuallow's nest (nidus hirundinis). The anterior medullary velum is the valve of Vieussens, which will be described in connection with the fourth ventricle. The cerebellum is connected with the rest of the encej^halon by means of three pairs of rounded cords or peduncles, superior, middle, and inferior. The superior peduncle (processus e cerebello ad testes) forms the superior lateral boundary of the fourth ventricle, and is continued upwards and forwards upon the upper surface of the cms cerebri to the corpora quadrigemina, beneath which its fibres decus- sate Avith those of the corresponding process of the opjDosite side ; higher up they may be traced into tlie white centre of the hemi- sphere. The middle pedtmcle (processus ad pontcm) connects the two hemispheres of the cerebellum, and is constituted by the transverse fibres of the pons. The inferior peduncle (processus ad medullam) is the connection of the cerebellum with the medulla and spinal cord, and lias been already descrilied under the title of resti- form body or tract. The three peduncles together form the crus cerebelli of each side. Structure of the Cerebellum.—A horizontal section of the cerebellum shows it to be composed, like the cerebrum, of an internal white mass, and of grey cortical matter; but the grey niattei greatly preponderates, so that the white centre is relatively small The white substance resembles the trunk of a tree, from which branches are given ofi', and from the branches, branchlets and leaves the two latter being coated by a moderately thick and uniform layer of grey substance. The appearance thus produced has received the name of arhor vitce cerehelke. In each lateral half of the white