ACTIONS OF THE PERINEAL MUSCLES. 310 side from tlie ramus of tlic iscliiiim, and inserted into tlie central point of the perineum. Tlie COMPRESSOR URETHRiE lias tlie sanre origin and insertion, and exercises the same functions in the female as in the male. The SPHINCTER ANI and SPHINCTER ANI INTERNUS surround the lower extremil v of the rectum, as in the male. The LEVATOR ANI is inserted into the side of the vagina and rectum. The COCCYGEUS is identical with the same muscle in the male. Nerve-supply.- These muscles are supplied by the same nerves as the corresponding muscles of the male perineum. Actions.—The bulbo-cavemosi being continuous at the middle line, and attached at each side to the triangular ligament by means of their posterior fibres, support the Inilbons portion of the iirethra, and acting forcibly, propel the semen, or the last drops of urine from the canaL The posterior and middle fibres contribute to the erection of the corpus spongiosum, by compressing the veins leaving the bulb ; and the anterior fibres assist in the erection of the entiie organ by compressing the vena dorsalis, by means of their insertion into the fascia jjenis. The ischio-cavernoms spreads out on the dorsum of the organ into a membranous expansion (fascia penis), which compresses the dorsal vein during the action of the muscle, and especially after the erection of the organ has couimenced. Erection of the penis results from the retention of the blood in the venons spaces of the corpora cavernosi and corpus sjiongiosum, that retention being broiight about by the compression of the veins of those bodies by the bulbo-cavernosus and ischio-cavernosus muscles. The transverse mnscles serve to steady the tendinous centre, that the muscles attached to it may obtain a firm point of support. The compressor urethrce, taking its fixed point from the ramus of the ischium at each side, can compress the urethra so as to close it completely, after the manner of a sphincter. The external sphincter, being a cutaneous muscle, contracts the integiiment around the anus, and by its attachment to the tendinous centre of the perineum and point of the coccyx, assists the levator ani in giving support to the opening during expulsive efforts. The contraction of this muscle is usually involuntary, Imt may be made more forcible at will. The internal sphincter contracts the extremity of the cylinder of the intestine. The use of the levator ani is expressed in its name ; it is the antagonist of the diaphragm and abdominal expulsory muscles, and serves to support the rectum and vagina during their expulsive eft'orts. Yielding to the propulsive action of the abdominal muscles, it enables the outlet of the pelvis to bear a greater force than a resisting structure, and, on the remission of such action, restores the perineum to its original form. Along with the coccygeus it inverts the anal border of the rectum after its ])i-otrusion in defalcation. The coccygei muscles restore the coccyx to its natural position, after it has been pressed l)ackwards dui-uig deftecation or parturition.