STRUCTUKE OF THE KIDNEYS. 761 spiral as it descends—the spiral tubule of Schachowa. Entering the pyramid, the tubule becomes mnch narrower, and after a shorter or longer course bends on itself and again runs towards the cortex, becoming larger as it ascends, these two parts form the descending and ascending limb of the looped-tubule of Henle. On again entering the cortex, the uriniferous tubule becomes extremely irre- gular in outline, and is distinguished as the irregular tubule, and then again becoming convoluted forms the second convoluted tubule. The latter passes into a small junctional tubule, by which it is connected with one of the tubules in the Malpighian pyramids, called collecting tubules—these last uniting to form the excretory tubules already described as opening on to the apex of the papilla. The part of the pyramids near the cortex is called the boundary zone ; in it the tubules are collected into bundles, separated from each other by groups of small blood-vessels; and these, as they radiate from the pyramids into the cortex, form the medullary rays ; the cortical substance between and around their ends is called, on account of its intricacy, the labyrinth of the cortex. The Malijighian body, first convoluted tubule, irregular tubule, and second com^oluted tubule, are in the labyrinth ; the spiral and junctional tubule are in the medullary rays ; the descending and ascending limbs of the looped tubule of Henle, and the collecting tubules are in the boundary zone. The tubules are formed by a basement membrane supporting- epithelium ; they vary considerably in width in different jDarts of their course. Near the apex of the papilla the excreting tube measures from ^-J^ to of an inch ; the straight or collecting tubules are smaller, averaging of an inch ; the junctional and convoluted portions are about the same size as the straight tubules ; the looped tubules of Henle vary from joVo t° T2W ^^<^1^ ! ^^'^^^ the Malpighian capsules are from to tt^q of an inch in width. Epithelium of the tubules.—The ej)ithelium of the excretory tubes is columnar, and the lumen is large in proportion to the depth of the cells ; that in the collecting tubules is cubical, but the cells vary considerably as regards regularity and thickness. In the junctional tubules the eiuthelium is cubical but somewhat fattened, and the lumen is relatively large. The second convoluted tubule (intercalary tubule) has an epithelium the cells of which are rather long, have a highly refractive proto- plasm and a large nucleus, and possess at their bases lateral pro- jections which dovetail into those of neighbouring cells. The irregular tubule is distinguished by the fact that, notwithstanding its irregularities in size and shape, the lumen is nearly the same throughout, this being brought about by the inequalities in the size of the cells ; their protoplasm appears to be made up of a series of minute rods, placed vertically to the surface of the basement membrane. A difference exists in the appearance presented by the ascending and descending limb of the looped tubules of Henle ; in