KECTUM. 737 small intestines and great omentum, and beliind with the quadratus lumborum, left kidney and left cms of the diajDhragm. The sigmoid flexure, the narrowest j^art of the colon, curves upwards and to the right, then downwards and to the left, and is retained in its place by a sigmoid meso-colon. It is in relation, in front, with the small intestine and abdominal parietes ; and behind with the iliac fossa. Including the upper part of the rectum as far as the third sacral A'ertebra, it has been described by F. Treves as forming a lai'ge loop somewhat resembling the Greek letter Q, and he proposes the substitution of the title Omega loop for sigmoid flexitre. The rectum, the termination of the large intestine,'seven or eight inches in length, has received its name, not so much from the direc- tion of its course, as from the straightness of its form in comparison with the colon. It descends from opposite the left sacro-iliac sym^ physis, in front of the sacrum, forming a gentle curve to the right side, and then returning to the middle line ; oj)posite the extremity of the coccyx it curves backwards to terminate in the anus at about an inch in front of the apex of that bone. The rectum, therefore, forms a double flexure in its course, the one being directed from side to side, the other from before backwards. It is smaller in calibre at its upper part than tlie sigmoid flexure, Init becomes gradually larger as it descends, and its lower extremity, previously to its termina- tion at the anus, forms a dilatation of considerable but variable magnitiide. It is not sacculated like the colon, and has no separate longitudinal bands on it. With reference to its relations, the rectum is divided into three portions ; the first, including half its length, extends to about the middle of the sacrum, is completely surrounded by peritoneum, and connected to the sacrum l)y means of the meso-rectum. This por- tion is in relation above Avith the left sacro-iliac symphysis ; and below, witli the branches of the internal iliac artery, sacral plexus of nerves and left ureter; one or two convolutions of the small intestine are interposed between the front of the rectum and the bladder in the male ; and between the rectum and the uterus with its appendages in the female. The second portion, about three inches in length, is closely attached to the surface of the sacrum, and is at fii'st covered by peritoneum on the front and sides, but lower down has that membrane only in front; it is in relation by its lower part with the base of the bladder, vesicula) seminales, and prostate gland ; and in the female with tlie vagina. The third portion curves backwards from op])osite tlie prostate gland and tip of the coccyx to terminate in the anus ; it is emln-aced by the levatores ani, and is about one inch and a half in length. It has no peritoneal covering, and is separated by tlie recto-vesical fascia from the piustate gland, vasa deferentia,' vesicular seminales and trigone of the Ijladder. This portion is separated from the mem- branous part of the urethra by a triangular' space ; in the female the triangular space intervenes between the vagina and rectum, and constitutes by its base the perineal l.)ody. Immediately above its 3 A