59 MUCOUS MEMBEANE. epithelial layer ; but tliis aggregation only takes place in isolated patches, and'not over the whole membrane. The synovial membrane passes a little beyond the edge of the articular cartilage, and its cells becoming changed in form and losing their processes come to bear a close resemblance to cartilage cells ; it thus becomes quite impossil.)le to determine the exact spot at which the membrane ceases.. Blood-vessels are numerous in the deep layer of synovial mem- branes ; the>' extend for only a short distance beyond the edge of the cartilage, where they forin a circle of anastomosis, the loops of which are distinguished by dilatations. MUCOUS MEMBRANE. Mucous membrane is the tissue which lines all the internal pas- sages couimunicating with the surface of the body. It secretes a viscid fluid called mucus, which protects and lubricates its surface, so as to allo^v of the passage of substances which otherwise would injure or irritate it. There are two great tracts of mucous mem- lirane, called the gastro-pidmonary and genito-uriuary. The first communicates with the sui'face of the body at the edge of the eyelids, nostrils, uiouth, and anus ; the second at the orifice of the urethra in the male, of the "\ agina in the feuiale. Every duct which opens into either of these tracts is a tubular prolongation of the mucous mem- brane ; and the A'arious glands which pour their secretions into the alimentary canal on the one hand, and those connected with the bladder and organs of generation on the other, are hut complicated I'amifications of that meuibrane continued to them through their respecti\-e ducts. The structure of mucous membrane is analogous to that of serous uiembrane, but more couaplex. It consists of two po)'tions— one, the corium, a tough fibro-vascular layer ; the other the epi- thelium, coui]iosed of one or more layers of cells which rest on the coriuui. The coriuui in most situations is separated from the epithelial layer by a thin, transparent membrane—the basement membrane ; it is composed of fiatteued cells joined by tlieir edges, and is often pierced by numerous openings through which the deeper processes of the ei)ithelial cells pass. Underneath this filmy structui'e lies the capillary plexus, and on it i-est the epithelial cell's. The corium consists of a congeries of vessels—capillaries and lymphatics—woven into a couipact tissue by interlacing fibres of connective tissue. The ])ink colour of mucous membrane depends on the capillary plexus seen thi'ough the semi-transparent cellular epitlieliuiii. In certain situations plain or involuntary muscular libres occur as a thin but delinite layer on the deep aspect of the conuni, iorming the mvscularis mucosce; this is especially distinct