UTERUS. 788 vagina. Its position, liowevei-, varies very greatly with the varyini,' conditions of the bhidder and rectiun ; when tlie bladder is empty the body of the litems may be horizontal. It is convex on it- posterior surface, and somewhat flattened in front; in the uii- impregnated state it is about three inches in length, two in breadtli across its broadest part, and one in thickness; and is divisible into fundus, body, cervix, and os uteri. At the period of puberty the uterus weighs about one ounce and a half ; after parturition from two to three ounces ; and at the ninth month of utero-gestatioii from two to four pounds. The fundus and body are enclosed in a duplicature of perito- neum, which is connected with the sides of the pelvis, and forms a transverse septum between the bladder and rectum. The folds formed by this dupli- cature of peritoneum at each side of the organ are the broad ligaments. Tlie cervix is the lowest portion of the uterus ; it is distinguished from the body by a well-marked constriction ; around its cii - cumference is attached the upper end of the A'agina, and at its extremity is an opening which is nearly round in the virgin, and transverse after parturition, the OS uteri (os tincse), bounded before and behind by two labia ; the posterior labium being somewhat longer than the anterior, and somewhat less thick. Tlie opening of the os uteri is of consideral)]e size, and is named the os uteri externum : the canal then becomes narrowed, and at the upper end of the cervix is constricted into a smaller opening, the os internum. Beyond this point the canal of the cervix expands into the shallow triangular cavil>" of the uterus, the inferior angle corre- si^nding with the os internum, and the two superioi' angles, which are funnel- shaped and represent the original bicornule condition of the organ, with the com- mencement of the Fallopian tubes. Structure.—The uterus is composed of three tunics : of an external or serous coat. derived from the peritoneum, which constitutes the duplicatures at each side of the organ called the broad ligaments ; of a viiddlc or muscular coat, and of an internal^ or mucous membrane, Avhich lines its interior, and is continuous on the one hand with the nuicous lining of the Fallopian tubes, and on the other with that of the vagina. . ^ c 4. 11^ The peritoneum forms only a partial covering to the rront 01 the Fig. 486.—Median vertical sec- tion through uterus and upper part of vagina. a. Antei ior wall of vagina, p. Posterior wall.