670 HEART. STRirCTURE OF TH13 HEART. * Tlie heart is covered externally by a delicate serous nieniln-ane, tlie pericardium, and is lined within by another serous membrane, the endocardium; its walls consist for the most part of muscular fibres, forming the myocardium, with a considerable amount of fat, especially in the grooves on tlie surface, and beneath the pericardium. The large openings are surrounded by rings of fibrous tissue, and these are intimately connected with a fibro-cartilaginous mass situ- ated in the angle between the aortic and two auriculo-ventricular openings. Muscular Structure. j The muscular fibres of the heai't have been already described in the section on Histology (p. 31) ; but their arrangement in the auri-| cular and ventricular walls has still to be studied. " I Ventricles.—The fibres of the ventricles have a very intricate arrangement. They may be divided into seven layers, the fibres of which differ in direction. The fibres of the first layer run spirally downwards from left to right, but nearly verticallj-; those of the second laj^er take the same general direction, but are more inclined to the horizontal; those of the third layer are still more transvei'se, and the fourth layer is quite transverse. Passing the fourth layer, which occupies a central position in the ventricular Avails and form.'^ the boundary between the external and internal layers, the order of arrangement is reversed and the fibres of the remaining layers, viz., five, six, and seven, gradually return in an opposite direction and in an inverse order to the same relation to the vertical as that maintained by the first external layer. The fibres composing corre- sponding external and internal layers, such as layers one and seven, two and six, &c., are continuous in the left ventricle at the apex, and in the right ventricle in the track for the anterior coronary artery, the fibres of both ventricles being for the most part continuous like- wise at the base. The fibres of the right and left ventricles anteriorly and septally are to a certain extent independent of each other; whereas posteriorly many of them are common to both ventricles; i.e., the fibres pass from one ventricle to the other. At the apex the fibres are twisted round like a scroll or whorl, and then the external fibres enter into the interior of the ventricle, and some of them are continuous with tho?e of the musculi papillares, others with the innermost layer of spiral fil;)res. The fibres from the back and front of the ventricle enter the apex in two difterent bundles, so that the whorl is composed of a double set of fibres twisted round each other something like the fingers of the two hands when they are folded over each other and closed. • Auricles.—The muscular fibres of the auricles are disposed in three sets transverse, spiral, and circular. The transverse are most ex- ternal ; they extend over both cavities and enter the septum. _ The spiral are attached at each extremity to the auriailo-ventricular