CERVICAL VEETEBR^. 77 spinous process, whicli gi^TS origin to the rectus capitis posticus minor muscle ; and upon its upper surface, near the articular pro- cesses, a shallow gi-oove at each side (sometimes converted into a foramen), which represents a superior intervertebral notch, and suppoi'ts the vertebral artery (just before it perforates the diira mater) and the first cervical nerve. The intervertebral notches are peciiliar, from being situated behind the articular processes, instead of before them as in the other vertebrte. The transverse lyrocesses are not bifid ; they are remarkably large and long, and give attach- ment to the oblique muscles which rotate the head ; they are joierced l)y the foramina for the vertebral arteries. The articular processes are situated on the most bulky and strongest part of the atlas. The siqjerior are oval and concave, and look inwards, so as to form a kind of ciip for the condyles of the occipital bone, and are ada])ted to the nodding mo"\^ements of the head ; the inferior are circular, and nearly horizontal, to permit of the rotatory movements. Upon the inner face of the lateral mass which supports the articulai' pro- cesses, is a small tubercle at each side, to which the extremities of the transverse ligament are attached, a ligament which divides the ring of the atlas into two unequal segments : the smaller and ante- rior, for receiving the odontoid process of the axis ; the larger and posterior, to give passage to the spinal cord and its membranes. The Axis (vertebra dentata) is so named from having a pi'ocess shaped like a tooth, forming a pivot upon which the head turns. The Fig. 85.—A lateral view of the axis. i. The body ; the uumber is placed on the depression which gives attachment to the longus colli. 2. The odontoid process. 3. The smooth facet on the anterior surface of the odontoid process which articulates with the anterior arch of the atlas; the facet for the transverse ligament is beneath No. 2, where the constriction called the neck of the odontoid process is seen. 4. The lamina. 5. The spinous process. 6. The transverse process, pierced obliquely by the vertebral foramen. 7. The superior articular surface. 8. The inferior articulai- process. boch/ ifi of large size, and supports a strong process, the odontoid which rises perpendicularly from its upper surface. The odontoid process presents two articulating surfaces ; one on its anterior face to articulate with the anterior arch of the atlas ; the other on its lis- terior face for the transverse ligament: the latter surface constricts the base of the process, which has given rise to the term neck apiilied to this part The tip of the odontoid process is often marked bv a spme or ridge which gives attachment to the middle check ligament (hgamentum suspensorium dentis). Upon each side of its apex s a rough depression, for the attachment of the lateral odontoid or s rfL V" 1 'iT' tl^e anterior surtace of the ])ody of the vertebra, a vertical ridge, with a de- pression at each side for the attachment of the longus'com muscle The lammce are large and strong, and unite posteriorly to f oL a bifid