524 LINING MEM15RANE OF 'J'HE VENTRICLES. immediately above tlie locus niger, and reaching the surface of the tegmentum, forms a white band round its outer surface, below tlie con)ora (luadrigemina. The crusta is conqjosed entirely of longi- tudinal nerve l);indles communicating between the cerebrum and medulla, and the cerebrum and cerebellum. The middle l)and is the largest, and consists of the fibres of the pyramidal tract; the band on the outer side contains fibres passing to the temporo-occi- pital convolutions ; and that on the inner side, fibres connecting the frontal lobes and cerebellum. The two crusta are completely separate; the tegmenta are united, \mt their line of fusion is marked by an incomplete septum. The locus niger {s^ibstantia nigra) is composed of deeply pigmented nerve-cells with many branching processes; nothing is known of the connections or uses of this large mass of grey matter. Lining Membrane of the Ventricles. The lining membrane of the ventricles, ependyma veniriculorum, is a serous layer distinct from the arachnoid ; it lines the whole of the interior of the lateral ventricles, and is connected with the attached border of the choroid plexus, so as to exclude direct communication between the lateral ventricles and the exterior of the brain. From the lateral ventricles it is reflected through the foramen of Monro on each side into the third ventricle, Avhich it invests throughout. From the third it is conducted into the fourth ventricle, through, the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculuni, and after lining its interior becomes continuous inferiorly ^dth the sub-arachnoid tissue of the spinal cord. The lining mem- brane of the ventricles is provided with an epithelium which is ciliated in patches and is the source of the secretion which moistens and lubricates their interior. The fifth ventricle has a separate lining membrane. The epithelium of the e])endyma ventriculorum is siipported Ijy a delicate layer of modified connective tissue, similar to that de- scribed in the spinal cord iinder the name of neuroglia. White Matter of the Cerebrum. The white matter of the cerebrum consists of medullated nerve- fibres, varying in size in dift'ercnt parts, but generally smaller than those of the spinal cord and medulla. They may be conveniently arranged into three sets, viz., (r) ascending ovpeduncular, (2) transverse or commissural, and C3) longitiuiinal or collateral. The peduncular fibres may again be divided into {a) those ascend- ing in the crusta of the crus, and (6) those reaching the cerebrum through the tegmentum. The fibres derived from the crusta pass chiefly in the inner capsule of the corpus striatum, and from thence into llic white centre of the hemispheres, where they spread out in a fan-like arrangement, forming the corona radiata, and ultimately reach tlie f