530 MEMBRANES OF THE BRAIN. The dura mater is the firm whitish or greyish layer wliich is In-oiiglit into view when the calvarium is removed. It is a strong fibrous membrane, somewhat himinated in texture, and composed of white fil:)rous tissue. Lining the interior of the ci'anium, it Herve« as tlie intei'Tial periosteum of that cavity ; it is prolonged also into the spinal column, but is not adherent to the bones in that canal as in the cranium. It is very firndy attached to the mai'gin of the foT'amen magnum, and to the foramina of exit of the cranial nerves. From the internal surface of the dura mater, processes are directed inwards for the support and protection of parts of the l)rain ; Avhile from its exterior, other processes are ])rolonged outwards to form sheaths for the nerves as they quit the skull. Its external surface is rough and fibrous, and corresponds with the internal table of the skull. The internal surface is smooth, and lined by endothelium ; it was formerly regarded as a reflected layer of the arachnoid meml)rane. On the external sirrface of the dura mater the branches of the middle meningeal artery may be seen ramifying ; and in the middle line is a depressed groove, formed by the subsidence of the upper wall of the superior longitudinal sinus. The Pacchionian bodies {glandulce Pacchioni) are small, round, whitish granulations, occurring singly or in clusters, and forming small groups of various sizes along the margin of the longitudinal fissure of the cerebrum, and more particularly near the summit of the latter. They are absent in infancy, increase in numbers in adult life, and are abundant in the aged. They are simply enlarged of the arachnoid, and consist of a spongy tissue continuous Avith the sub-arachnoid tissue and of the same composition, covered by a layer of epithelial cells. When of large size they cause absorption of the bone, and so come to be lodged in depressions or j)its in the interior of the vertex of the skull. If the student cut through one side of the dura mater, in the direction of his incision through the skull, and turn it upwards towards the middle line, he will observe the smooth internal surface of this membrane. He will j)erceive also the large veins of the hemispheres passing from liehind forwards to open into the superior longitudinal sinus. If he introduce the handle of his scalpel bet-w een the dura mater and arachnoid, he will see a vertical layer of the former descending between the hemispheres ; and if he draw one side of the brain a little outwards, he will be enabled to perceive the extent of the process of membrane which is called the falx cerebri. The processes of dui'a mater which are sent inwards towards the interior of the skull are the fa'x cerebri, tentorium cerebelli, and fulx cerebelH. The falx cerebri (fnlx, a sickle, so named from its sickle-like appearance), narrow in front, broad beliind, and forming a sharp curved edge below, is attached in front to the crista galli process of the ethmoid bone, and behind to the tentorium cerebelli ; betAveen these points it is connected with the inner surface of the cranium in the middle line. Along the attached border runs the superior