556 EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. inner surface of the femur, but are not attached to it.' The muscle is inserted by a tendon common to it, the crureus, vastus extermis and rectus, into the front of tlie inner half of the base of the patella, but the lower fibres pass directly to the inner border of that boiK; without joining the tendon, and from this latter portion of tlu; muscle an aponeurosis is prolonged to be inserted immediately below the inner tuberosity of the tibia, some of its fibres joining the internal lateral ligament of the knee. In its upper jmrt the muscle is often blended with the crurens, but their line of separation may be made out by following the course of a small nerve which is derived from the upper branch to the vastus internus, and passes down Ijetween the vastus internus and crureus to be distributed to the subcrureus and upper part of the synovial pouch of the knee. Relations.—By its siiferjkial surface with the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sartorius, femoral artery and vein, and saphenous nerve, pec- tineus, adductor longus, brevis, and magnus, and fascia lata. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur. Nerve-supply.—Anterior crural nerve. The CRUREUS {cms, the leg) consists of four laminae, placed ond over the other ; separated above, at their origin, by intervals of barfl bone, but fused below. The first of these is placed superficially t the rest, and arises from the spiral line to the outer side of the ii ternal cervical tubercle ; its attachment passes from thence dow the outer surface of the bone to the gluteal ridge, and is continued downwards along the outer lip of the linea aspera and external inter muscular septum. Below the point where the linea aspera divide the fibres cease to arise from bone, but continue to spring from th| external intermuscular septum close to its attachment to the supr condylar line. The second layer lies beneath the first, and is attache lower down on the shaft of the femur, and the third and fourth in like manner lie beneath and below the second. Each layer arises entirely by fleshy fibres in the form of an arched process, which extends from the inner border of the shaft transversely across its front, and then obliquely down its outer surface for a short distance to the linea aspera, where it blends witli the adjacent layers of the crureus, the vastus externus and external intermuscular septum. The lower two-thirds of the anterior surface of the crureus is aponeurotic, the aponeurosis being narrow below, where it Lies in the middle of the limb, and spread out above, Avhere it covers the whole of the anterior and part of the outer surface. The crureus is inserted by means of the common tendon into the upper border of the patella.* Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external circum- flex vessels, rectus, vastus internus and externus. By its deep sur- face with the femur, sub-crureus, and synovial membrane of the knee-joint. * The above description of the extensor muscles is coudensed from an exhaustive account given by Mr. W. Roger WiUiams, M.R.C.S., in the Journal of Ana.U)m.y a»« Physiology, vol. xiii. p. 204.