OCCIPITAL BONE. 89 occipital protuberance), upon ■\vhicli rests the torcular Heropliili. In the centre of the basilar portion of the bone is the foramen viagnum, oblong in form, and larger behind than Ijefore, transmitting the sjjinal cord and its membranes, the spinal accessory nerves, and vertebral and posterior meningeal arteries, and having its anteiio]- constricted portion occupied by the tip of the odontoid process of the axis. Upon tlie lateral margins of the foramen magnum are two rougli eminences, which give attachment to the odontoid ligaments, and immediately above these, the openings of the anterior condylar foramina. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, grooved on its surface for supporting the medulla oblongata, and along each lateral border for tlie inferior petrossal sinus. On each side of the fgramen magnum is a groove, for the termination of the lateral sinus ; a smootli surface, which forms part of the jugular Fig. 94.—Internal surface of the occi- pital bone. I, Left cerebral fossa. 2. Left cerebellar fossa. 3. Groove for the posterior part of the supe- rior longitudinal sinus. 4. Spine for the falx cerebelli, and groove for the occipital sinuses. 5. Groove for the left lateral sinus. 6. In- ternal occipital protuberance. 7. Foramen magnum. 8. Basilar process, grooved tor the medulla oblongata. g. Termination of the gi-oove for the lateral sinus, boinided externally by the jugular eminence. 10. Jugular fossa ; this fossa is completed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone. 11. •Superior border. 12. Inferior border. 13. Border which arti- culates with the petrous portion of the temporal boue, grooved by the inferior petrosal sinus. 14. Anterior condylar foramen. fossa ; and a projecting process, whicli divides the two, and is called the jugular eminence. Into the jugular fossa will be seen opening the posterior condylar foramen. The superior borders are strongly serrated, and assist in forniin^^ the laniljdoidal suture ; the inferior are rough, not serrated, ancl articulate with tlie mastoid portion of the temporal bones The jugular eminence and side of the basilar process articulate with the petrous portion of tlie temporal bone, and the intervenino- space which is irregularly notched, forms the posterior boundary of the jugular foramen, or foramen lacerum posterius. The angles oi tlie occipital 1jone are, tlie superior, inferior, and two lateral. The sujmior angle is received into tlie interval formed by the union ot the posterior and superior angles of the imrietal bones, and corresponds with that portion of tlie fwtal head which is