482 LYMPHATICS OF 'J'HE PELVIS. those of the stiaictuve of the intestine, wliicli run in the muscular coat between the longitudinal and circular fibres, and also beneath the peritoneum, previously to entering the mesenteric glands; and those which commence in the villi, in the substance of the mucous membrane, and are named lacteals. The lacteals commence in the centre of each villus, as a caecal tubulus, which opens into a fine network, situated in the submucous tissue. From this network the lacteal vessels proceed to the mesen- teric glands, and from thence to the thoracic duct, in which they terminate. The lymphatic glands of the large intestines are situated along the attached margin of the intestine, in the meshes formed by the colic and hsemorrhoidal arteries previoiLsly to their dis- tribution. The lymphatic vessels take their course in two different directions ; those of the caecum, ascending colon, and transverse colon, after traversing their proper glands, proceed to the mesen- teric glands, and those of the descending colon and rectum to the lumbar glands. KIDNEY.—The lymphatic vessels of the kidney follow the direction of the blood-vessels to the lumbar glands situated around the aorta and inferior vena cava ; those of the supra-renal capsules, which are very large and numerous, terminate in the renal lym- phatics. PELVIS.—The lymphatic vessels of the bladder are most numerous at the base and on the posterior aspect of that organ; they communicate with the lymphatics of the vesiculae seminales and prostate, and terminate in the internal iliac glands. The lymphatics of the uterus consist of a superficial and deep set; the former being placed beneath the peritoneum, and the latter in the substance of the organ. Those of the cer\'ix and vagina join the internal iliac and sacral glands; those of the body and fundus enter the broad ligaments, and after receiving the lymphatics of the ovaries, broad ligaments, and Fallopian tubes, terminate in the lumbar glands. The lymphatic vessels of the testicle take the course of the spermatic cord, in which they are of large size; they terminate in the lumbar glands. THORACIC DUCT. The thoracic duct, the great trunk of the lymphatic and chylous system, commences in the abdomen by a considerable and somewhat triangular dilatation, the receptaculum chyli, which is situated on the front of the body of the second lumlmr vertebra, behind and between the aorta and inferior vena cava, and close to the tendon of the right crus of the diaphragm. From the upper part of the receptaculum chyli the thoracic duct ascends through the aortic opening of the diaphragm, and along the front of the vertebral column, lying between the thoracic aorta and vena azygos and upon the T'ight intercostal arteries, to the fourth dorsal vertebra. It then