I STEUCTUEE OF THE MAMMAEY GLAND. 799 up of smaller lobes or lobiiles, and tlie lobules of other lobules still more diminutive, the smallest lobules consisting of round or pyri- forni gland-vesicles or alveoli. The gland-vesicles or alveoli, about of an inch in diameter, are composed of a basement membrane, lined with an eintheliuw., which changes in character with the varying conditions of the organ, r When the gland is inactive, the alve- oli are very small, and the lining cells are small and granular. Wlien active secretion is going on, the alve- oli are large and distended with fluid, the epithelial cells are flattened out against the mucous membrane and contain fat globules. The alveoli ' communicate witli an excretorj'- duct, and the excretory ducts of all the lobules unite to form a common excretory duct or canal for each lobe, galactophorus duct. The duct, taking its course beneath the areola, dilates into an elongated sac or ampulla, and reaching the base of the mammilla, contracts in size and bends oiitwards into pio. 492.-Gland-ye8icles of the mam- that process to terminate at its mary gland during lactation, show- extremity by a small aperture. ^^f^th^ ^^^^"8^ ''^^'^ capillary There are from 15 to 25 ducts in t he nipple, a number corresponding with the number of lobes com- posing the gland. I The gland-vesicles are held together by a dense white areolar ! tissue, which unites the lobules into lobes, and connects the dif- 1 ferent lobes with eacli oilier, forming a covering for the whole, ; and being itself surrounded with adipose tissue. The galacto- I phorus ducts are composed of areolar tissue, with longitudinal and cii'cular elastic fibres, and, according to Henle, tliere is an indication I of longitudinal smooth muscular fibre ; they are lined by columnar • epithelium, passing into the squamous form near the ojDenings on the nipple. The mammilla or nipple is covered by a thin epidermis, present- ing more or less pigment in its rete inucosum ; it jjossesses at the extremity a number of papillse, between which are the lactiferous Openings, and it is composed internally of the ducts, united together and surrounded by areolar and smooth muscular tissue, the latter giving the nipple the faculty of erection and retraction. Tlie inte- gument of the areola, besides possessing a coloured epidermis with numerous large sudoriparous and sebaceous glands, the latter associated with fine hairs, is also provided with a layer of smooth muscular fibre, which gives it a power of contraction.