2o8 CARPO-METACAKPAL ARTICULATIONS. interarticular ftbro-cartilagc ; it has been described above, and is called sacciform, on account of forming a sacculus between the ulna and radius. The second is situated between the lower surface of the radius and interarticular fibro-cartilage above, and the first range of bones of the carpus below. The third, the most extensive of the synovial cavities of the wrist, is situated between the two rows of carpal bones, and passes between the bones of the first and between those of the second range, also between the carpal extremities of the four metacarpal bones of the fingers. The fourth is the synovial cavity of the articulation of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. The fifth is situated between the pisiform and cuneiform bones. Actions.—Very little movement exists between the bones in each range, but more is permitted between the two ranges. The most important movements are flexion and extension, but there is also a slight amount of lateral motion and of rotation in the medio-carpal articulation. The rotation takes place by the head of the os magnum and upper outer angle of the unciform moving in the socket formed by the three outer bones of the first row, together with some gliding backwards and forwards of the trapezium and trapezoid on the scaphoid. 9. CAEPO-METACARPAL ARTICULATIONS.—The second row of bones of the carpus articulates with the metacarpal bones of the iG. 171.—Diagram showing tlie disposition ot the chief synovial membranes iof the wrist-joint. 1. Sacciform membrane. 11. Second synovial cavity, iii. Thii d or large synovial cavity. iv. Synovial cavity between the trapezium and metacaipal bone of thumb. That of the pisiform bone is here omitted, i. Radius. 2. Ulna. 3. Internal lateral liga- ment. 4. External lateral liga- ment. 5. Cuneiform bone. 6. SemUunar. 7. Scaphoid. 8. Un- ciform, g. O.s magnum. 10. Tra- pezoid. II. Trapezium. 12. In- terarticulai- fibro-cartilage. 13. Metacarpal bone of thumb. 14. Metacarpal of little finger, -f In- terosseous metacarpal ligaments. Interosseous ligaments are also seen connecting the bones of each row of the carpus. four fingers by dorsal and palmar ligaments ; and the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium by a capsular ligament. There is also in the carpo-metacarpal articulation a thin interosseous band, which passes from the ulnar edge of the os magnum to the