78o MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. ill whicli fat is never deposited, ljut wliich is very susceptible of serous mhlti-ation. i v. ui The tunica vaginalis is a pouch of serous membrane derived Irom tJie mritoneuiu in tlie descent of tlie testicle, and afterwards obliterated irom the abdomen to within a short distance of the gland. It IS a shut sac, investing the organ, visceral portion, and tiien reflected so as to form a bag around its circumference, parietal portion On the outer side it forms a shallow pouch called diaital Jossa, between the testicle and the body of the epididymis. The visceral portion, tunica vaginalis propria, covers the surface of the tunica albugmea, and surrounds the epididymis, connecting it to the testicle by means of a duplicature. The parietal portion, tunica vaginalis communis, is attaclied by its external surface, through the medium of a quantity of loose areolar tissue, to the inner surface of Fig. 479.—Transverse section of the testicle. I. Cavity f>f the tunica vaginalis ; the most external layer is the parietal layer; and that in contact veith the organ, the visceral layer. 2. Tunica albuginea. 3. Medias- tinum testis giving off numerous fibrous cords in a radiated direction to tlie internal surface of the tunica albuginea. The cut extremities of the vessels below the figure belong to the rete testis ; and those above to the arteries and veins of the organ. 4. Tunica vasculosa. 5. One of the lobules, consisting of the convolutions of the tubuli seminiferi, and terminating by a single duct, the vas rectum. Corresponding lob- ules are seen between the other fibrous cords of the mediastinum. 6. Section of the epididymis. the dartos. Between the two layers is the smooth surface of the shut sac, moistened by its secretion. At the upper part of the testicle and in front of the globus major of the epididymis one or two small pedunculated bodies are commonly observed ; they are described as the hydatids of Morgagni, and are composed of connective tissue and blood-vessels with a covering of tunica vaginalis. The largest of these is regarded as the remains of a foetal structure called the duct of Mtiller. The tunica albuginea is a thick areolo-fibrous membrane, of a bluish-white colour, and the proper tunic of the testicle. It is adherent externally to the tunica vaginalis propria, and, from the union of a serous with a fibrous membrane, is regarded as a fibro- serous membrane, like the dura mater and pericardium. After surrounding the testicle, the tunica albuginea is reflected from its posterior border into tlie interior of the gland, and forms a project- ing longitudinal ridge, the mediastinum testis (corpus Highmori- anum), from which numerous fibrous coi'ds (trabecular septula) are given ofl", to be inserted into the inner surface of the tunic. Tlie mediastinum contains the blood-vessels and ducts in their passage