LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. 677 and posticus. The outer angle is a stout prominent process, which gives attachment to the crico-arytenoideus posticus and crico-arytenoideus lateralis muscles, and hence has been named the processus muscularis; the anterior angle is a sliarp and pointed process directed forwards ; it gives attachment to the inferior thyro- arytenoid ligament or true vocal cord, and has been named the ■processus vocalis. The cuneiform cartilages (cartilages of Wrisberg) are two small cylinders of yellow fibro-cartilage, about seven lines in length, and enlarged at each extremity. They lie in the aryteno-epiglottidean folds of mucous membrane. In the male, the cartilages of the larynx are more or less ossified, particularly in old age. The epiglottis (eViyXturTty, u]3on the tongue) is a fibro-cartilage of a yellowish colour, studded with a number of small mucous glands, lodged in shallow pits on its surface. It is shaped like an obcor- date leaf, and placed immediately in front of the opening of the larynx, which it partly closes when the larynx is drawn up beneath the base of the tongue. It is attached by its point to the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage by means of fibrous tissue forming the thyro-epiglottic ligament, and to the inner surface of the body of the hyoid bone by the kyo-epiglottic ligament; with the base of the tongue it is connected by folds of mucous membrane forming the frenula. or glosso-epiglottidean folds, and with the summit of the arytenoid cai- tilages by the aryteno-epiglottidean folds. Its laryngeal surface is concavo-convex from above downwards, and concave from side to side ; the convex portion projects into the anterior part of tlie upj^er opening of the larynx, and forms the cushion of the epiglottis. Ligaments.—-The ligaments of the larynx are numerous, and may be arranged into four groups : i. Those which articulate the thyroicl with the OS liyoides. 2. Those which connect it with the cricoid. 3. Ligaments of the arytenoid cartilages. 4. Ligaments of the epi- glottis. 1. The ligaments which connect the thyroid cartilage with the os hyoides are three in number. Two thyro-hyoid ligaments pass between the superior cornua of the thyroid and the extremities of the greater cornua of the os hyoides ; they are composed of yellow fibrous tissue, and often con- tain a sesamoid bone or cartilage (cartilage triticea). The thyro-hyoid membrane is a broad membranous layer, occu- pying tlie entire space between the upper bordei' of the thyroid cartilage and the upper and inner border of the os hyoides. It is pierced by the superior lai-yngeal nerve and artery. 2. The ligaments connecting the thyroid to the cricoid cartilage are also three in number :— Two capsular ligaments, with their synovial membranes, whicli form the articulation between the inferior cornua of the thyroid and the sides of the cricoid ; and the crico-thyroid membrane. The crico-thyroid membrane is a fan-shaped layer of yellow