'74 SESAMOID BONES. Development.—By hco centres ; one for tlie body and one for the metatarsal extremity. Ossification commences in these bones after the metatarsus, appearing firstly in last i)]ialanges, then in the first, and lastly m the middle row. The centres for the epiphyses appear during the fourth year for tlie first row, and the sixth year lor the otJier two rows. Tlie bones are comijleted at eigliteen. Articulations.—The first row with the metatarsal l)ones and second i)ha]anges ; the second, of the gi-eat toe, with the first pha- lanx ; of the other toes, with the first and third i)lialanges; the third, with tlie second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To twenty-three: to the first phalanges; great toe, innermost tendon of the extensor brevis digitorum, abductor hallucis, adductor liallucis, fiexoi- brevis liallucis, and transversus pedis ; second toe, first and second dorsal interosseous and lumbri- zaMa; third toe, third dorsal and first plantar interosseous and lunibricalis ; fourth toe, fourth dorsal and second plantar interosseous and lunibricalis ; fifth toe, tliird plantar interosseous, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti and lunibricalis. Berond phalanges : great toe, extensor longus liallucis, and flexor longiis hallucis ; other toes, one slip of the common tendon of the extensor loiigus and extensor breA-is digitorum, and flexor brevis digitorum. Third pha- langes: two slijjs of the common tendon of the extensor longus and extensor bre\'is digitorum, and the fiexor longus digitorum. SESAMOID BONES. These are small masses, cartilaginous in early life, osseous in the adult, developed in those tendons which exert a certain degree of force 111)011 the surface over which they glide, or where, by continued ]iressure and friction, the tendon would become a source of ii'ritation to neighbouring j)arts, as to joints. The best example of a sesamoid bone is the i?atella, developed in the common tendon of the quad- riceps extensor, and resting against the front of the knee-joint. Be- sides the patella, there are four paii'S of sesamoid bones constantly found, two on the iiietacarpo-phalangeal articulation of each thumb, and existing in the tendons' of insertion of the fiexor brevis ])ollici.>i, and two on the corresponding joint in the foot, in the tendons of the muscles inserted into the base of the first phalanx. In addition to these there is often a sesamoid bone on the iiietacarpo-plialangeiil joint of the little finger ; and on the corresponding joint in the foot, in the tendons inserted into the base of the first ])halaiix ; there is one also in the tendon of the ])eroneus longus muscle, where it glides through the groove in the cuboid bone ; sometimes in the tendons, as they wind around the inner and outer malleolus ; in the psoas and iliacus, where they glide over the os j^ubis ; and in the external head of the gastrocnemius. The bones of the tympanum, as they belong to the apparatus of hearing, will be described with the anatomy of the ear.