224 SYNOVIAL CAVITIES OF THE TARSUS. calcaneal, is lodged in the groove between the upper surface of the OS calcis and the lower of the astragalus. It is large and very strong, consists of vertical and oblique fibres, and serves to unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The second interosseous liga- ment, also very strong, is situated between the sides of the scaphoid and cuboid bone ; the three remaining interosseous ligaments con- nect strongly together the three cuneiform bones and the cuboid. Tlie synovial membranes of the tarsus are four in number : one, for the posterior astragalo-calcaneal articulation ; a second, for the anterior astragalo-calcaneal and astragalo-scaphoid articulation; oc- casionally an additional small synovial membrane is found in the Fig. i8i.—Diagram showing the arraugemeiit of the synovial lueinbraues of the tarsal joints, i. Synovial membrane of the ankle-joint, ii. That between the back of the iistraj^alus and os calcis. iii. That between the astragalus and scaphoid, and between the front of the astragalus and os calcis. iv. Between the OS calcis and cuboid, v. Between the cuneiform bones and scaphoid, vi. Between the internal cuneiform and metatarsal of big toe. vii. Between the middle meta- tarsal and two outer cuneiform bones, viii. Between the cuboid and outer meta- tarsals. IX. Between the third and fourth metatarsals, i. Tibia. 2. Astragalus. 3. Os calcis. 4. Scaphoid. 5. Cuboid. 6. External cuneiform. 7. Middle, and 8, Internal cuneiform. 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. Metatarsal bones. Interosseous ligaments are shown connecting the several bones of the tarsus and metatarsus. anterior astragalo-calcaneal joint; a tlm-d, for the calcaneo-cuboid articulation ; and a fourth, the large tarsal synovial membrane for the articulations between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones, the cuneiform bones with each other, the external cuneiform bone with the cuboid, and the two outer cuneiform bones with tlie bases of tlie second and third metatarsal bones. The prolongation which reaches the metatarsal bones passes forward between the internal and middle cuneiform bone. The synovial membrane between the two outer cuneiform and second and third metatarsal bones is often distinct from the large one ; it is so represented in Fig. 181, vii. A small synovial membrane is sometimes met with between the contiguous surfaces of the scaphoid and cuboid bone. 4