269 MUSCLES OF THE BACK. I. Muscles of the Back.—The region of the bach, in consequence of its extent, is common to the neck, upper extremities, and abdo- men ; and its muscles, which are numerous, may be arranged into six layers. First Layer. Trapezius, Latissimus dorsi. Dissection.—The muscles of this layer are to be dissected by making an incision along the middle line of the back, from the tubercle on the occipital bone to the coccyx. From the u.pper end of this incision carry a second transversely outwards to the back of the ear ; inferiorly an incision must be made from the extremity of the sacrum, along the crest of the ilium, to about its middle. For convenience of dissection, a fourth may be carried from the spine of the seventh cervical vertebra to the acromion process. The integument and superficial fascia, together, are to be dissected off the muscles in the course of their filires, over the whole of this region. Fasciae.—The superficial fascia of this region is continuous with that of the rest of the body; it is of considerable thickness and strength, and contains much pinkish fat. The deep fascia forms a dense fil^rous layer which is attached to the superior curved line of the occipital bone, tlie spines of the vertebra?, S2)ine of the scapula, crest of the ilium, and sacrum ; it is closely connected with the muscles, for which it forms sheaths, and is continuous with the deep cervical fascia and with the deep fascia of the abdominal and thoracic walls. The TRAPEZIUS muscle {trapezium, a quadrangle with unequal sides) arisKS from the inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, from the ligamentum nuchte, and from the supra- spinous ligament and spinous processes of the last cervical and all tlie dorsal vertebrae. The fibres converge from these various points, the upper and lower being oblic[ue, and the middle nearly horizontal, and are inserted into the scapxdar third of the clavicle, acromion process, and upper border of the spine of the scapula, as far back as its tubercle. Over the two lower cervical and two upper dorsal spines the origin is markedly aponeurotic, so as to present the appear- ance of a tendinous ellipse. The lower fil^res of the muscles termi- nate in a flattened tendon which plays over the smooth triangular area at the root of the spine of the scapula. When the trapezius is dissected on both sides, the two muscles resemble a trapezium, or diamond-shaped quadrangle, on the posterior part of the shoulders ; hence the muscle was formerly named cucullaris (cucullus, a monk's cowl). Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument and superficial fascia, to which it is closely adherent by its cervical portion, loosely by its dorsal portion. " Bv its deep surface, from above downwards, with the complexus, splenius, levator anguli