CILIARY MUSCLE. 627 and shape. Tliey have much the same structure as the choroid, and are composed of a vascular network and an internal pigmentary layer. Their periphery is connected with the ciliary muscle ; the central border is free, and nearly reaches the circumference of the lens ; the anterior surface is continuous with the uvea : the posterior surface receives the folds of the suspensory ligament of the lens. Each of the larger folds measures about of an inch in length, and of an inch in depth. The ciliary muscle (formerly described as the ciliari/ ligament) is situated internally to the canal of Schlemm. It forms a greyish- white ring round the anterior part of the choroid, and is found to consist of unstriped muscular tissue, the fibres of which are con- nected in front with the inner surface of the sclerotic, and the fibres of the membrane of Descemet; they pass inwards and backwards, and are attached to the choroid opposite and beyond the ciliary pro- cesses. Besides these fibres there are others, situated more inter- FiG. 361.—Section through the ciliary processes and periphery of the iris. a. Radiating fibres of the ciliary muscle, b. Circular fibres or muscle of Miiller. c. Circular fibres surrounded by radiating fibres, d. Circular fibres by themselves. e. Muscular fibres shown in their connection with the corneo-sclerotic junction. /. Iris. g. Uveal tract, h. Ligamentum pectinatum. nally, at the base of the ciliary processes ; these are disposed cir- cularly, and constitute the circular muscle of Miiller (sphincter ciliaris). The circular fibres are most developed in hypermetrojjic eyes, and are very scanty or altogether absent in those which are myopic (Iwanoff). INTERNAL TUNIC.—This consists of the retina, with its con- tinuation forwards, called the pars ciliaris retince. The retina is the inner nervous tunic of the eye, and that on which the images of external objects are produced. It is in contact by its external surface with the choroid, and by its internal surface with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour. It is firmly attached to the back part of the eye by means of the retinal artery and fibres of the optic nerve Avhich enter it, but is loosely applied to the inside of the choroid thr'oughout the rest of its extent. It terminates anteriorly, a little behind the ciliary processes, in a festooned edge, the ora serrata; but from this edge there are