3SO GLUTEAL REGION. and from the tliick fascia above mentioned. Its fibres convei'f.'c to a triangular rough surface on the outer part of the trochanl('f major, into which its tendon is inserted. Kelations.—By its superficial surface with the tensor vagiuaj femoris, gluteus maximus, and its own proper fascia. By its deep surface with the gluteus minimus and gluteal vessels and ner\c. By its lower border with the pyriformis muscle. A bursa is inter- posed between its tendon and the upper part of tlie trocliaiil. r major. Nerve-supply.—Superior gluteal nerve, from the sacral plexus. This muscle should now be removed from its origin and turned down, to expose the next, which is situated beneath it. The GLUTEUS MINIMUS is a radiate muscle arising from the surface of the dorsum ilii, Ijetween the middle and inferior curved lines ; its fibres converge to the anterior border of the trochantei' major, into which it is inserted by means of a rounded tendon. Relations.—By its superficial surface Avith the gluteus mediiis and gluteal vessels. By its 'deep surface with the ilium, long tendon of the rectus femoris, and capsule of the hip-joint. A bursa is interposed between its tendon and the trochanter. Nerve-supply.—Superior gluteal nerve. The PYRIFORMIS {pyriim, a pear), i.e., pear-shaped, arises from the anterior surface of the sacrum, by three little slips interposed between the anterior sacral foramina, from the first to the fourth, from the adjoining surface of the ilium, and from the greater sacro- ischiatic ligament. It passes out of the pehds through the great sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a rounded tendon intr^ the upper border of the trochanter major, behind the tendon of the obturator internus, with which it is often blended. Relations.—By its superficial or external surface with the sacnui; and gluteus maximus. By its deep or pelvic surface with the rectum, sacral plexus of nerves, branches of the internal iliac artery, great sacro-ischiatic notch, and capsule of the hip-joint. By its iqypi'r border with the gluteus medius and gluteal vessels and nerve. B} its loiver border with the gemellus superior, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the sacral plexus. The GEMELLUS SUPERIOR (gemellus, double, tvnn) is a small slip of muscle situated immediately below the pyriformis ; it arises from the spine of the ischium, and is inserted into the upper l:)order of the tenclon of the obturator internus, and into the upper border of the trochanter major. The gemellus superior is not unfrequently wanting. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerA'e. By its deep surface with the pelvis and capsule of the hip-joint. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the sacral plexus. The OBTURATOR INTERNUS arises from the innei' surface of the anterior wall of the pelvis, being attached to the margin of