MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE NECK. 247 MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE NECK. The muscles of the neck may be arranged into eight groups, cor- responding with the natural divisions of the region ; they are :— 1. Superficial group. 2. Depressors of the os hyoides and larynx. 3. Elevators of the os hyoides and larynx. 4. Lingual group. 5. Pharyngeal group. 6. Palatine group. 7. Prtevertebral group. 8. Laryngeal group. Superficial Group.— Platysma myoides. Sterno-cleido mastoid. Dissection.—The dissection of the neck should be commenced by making an incision along the middle line of its fore-part from the chin to the sternum, and bounding it superiorly and infei'iorly by two transverse incisions; the superior being carried along the margin of the lower jaw, and across the mastoid process to the pro- tuberance on the occipital bone, the inferior along the clavicle to the acromion process. The square tiap of integument thus included should be turned back from the entire side of the neck, which brings into view the superficial fascia, and on the removal of a thin layer of this the platysma myoides will be exposed. The superficial cervical fascia is a part of the common super- ficial fascia of the entire body, and is only interesting from contain- ing between its layers the jjlatysma myoides muscle. The PLATYSMA MYOIDES {TrXarvs fiis etSoy, broad muscle-like lamella) is a thin plane of musciilar fibres, situated beneath tlie integument on the side of the neck. It arises from the fascia over the pectoralis major and deltoid muscle, and from the clavicle and acromion ; it passes obliquely upwards and inwards to be inserted into the side of the chin, oblique line of the lower jaw, angle of the mouth, and integument of the face. The anterior fibres mingle beneath the chin with those of the muscle of the opposite side ; the next interlace with the depressor anguli oris and depressor labii inferioris ; the posterior fibres are disposed in a transverse direction across the lower part of the face, arising from the fascia over the parotid gland and masseter muscle, and inserted into the angle of the mouth, where they form part of the risorius Santorini muscle. The entire muscle is analogous to the cutaneous muscle of brutes, the'pannimlus carnosus. Relations.—By its external surface with the integument, with which it is closely adherent below, but loosely above. By its