494 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. longitudinal bundles of nerve-fibres, of masses of grey matter con- stituting nerve nuclei, and of nerve-fibres originating from them. If the section be made through the upper part of the decussation the appearance presented will be such as is shown in Fig, 295. In from and behind are the anterior and pontcrior median fissures {a.m.f. and p.m.f.); at the bottom of the anterior fissure is the decussation, proceed- ing from which a narrow band of fibres will be observed running outwards, forming the dee}) arciform tract (f-o^.). Behind the decassa- tion is the central canal surrounded by grey matter. In the front of the medulla, and bordering on the anterior fissure, is a large triangular mass of white matter, the anterior mraviid, on the surface of whiclj are the superficial arciform fibres (f.a.), and near its outer border Fig. 295.—Section of the medulla at the level of the decussation of the pyramids, a.m.f. Anterior mediitn fissure. 2).m.f. Posterior median fissure, py. Pyramid, n.ar. Nu- cleus of the arciform fibres, /.cii. Deep arciform fibres becoming superficial, o. Lower end of oli- vary nucleus, oh Accessory olivary nucleus. v.I. Nucleus lateralis. f.r. Formatio reticularis. f.a-. Arciform fibres coming from for- matio reticularis, g. Substantia gelatinosa (Rolando), a.v. Ascend- ing root of fifth nerve, n.c. Nu- cleus cuneatus. n.c'^. Exteniiil cuneate nucleus, f.c. Funiculus cuneatus. 71. g. Nucleus gracilis. f.g. Funiculus gracilis, c.c. Cen- tral canal, with grey nuclei lor (n.xi.) spinal accessory nerve, (n.xii.) Hypoglossal, s.d. Inferior decussation. a small grey nucleus, the arciform nucleus. The central part of tlu^ section is occupied by the formatio reticularis, a coarse network ol grey matter, containing nerve-cells, intersected by bundles of white fibres ; on the outer edge of this is a grey mass, the nucleus lateralis, which is the remains of the anterior horn of the spinal cord (n.L). Between the nucleu,s lateralis and the decussation is a long grey mass, the internal accessory olivary nucleus (o\), and outside there is an irregular nucleus (0.), which is the lower extremity of the corpus dentatum of the olive. At the back of the medulla is a large nucleus, the nucleus gracilis (n.g.), causing the projection of the cla\ .i oi funiculis gracilis (fg.), as already described ; external to this another large mass, the cuneate nucleus (n.c), lies in the deep part ot the funiculus cuneatus (f.c), a secondary smaller deposit near the sur- face of that column being called the external cuneate nucleus {n.c^.}.