MUSCLES OF THE HAND. 338 tensor minimi digiti supplies that finger with the power of exerting a distinct extension. MUSCLES OF THE HAND. Radial or Thenar Region, Abductor pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Flexor ossis metacarpi (opponens), Adductor pollicis. Dissection.—The hand is best dissected by making an incision along the middle of the jialm, from the Avrist to the Ijase of the middle finger, and crossing it at each extremity l>y a trans\-er.<c incision, then turning aside the flaps of integument. For exposing the niuscles of the radial region, the removal of the integument and fascia on the radial side will be sufficient. The ABDUCTOR POLLICIS is a thin flat muscle, which arises from the trapezium howQ and annular ligament. It is inserted into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Nerve-supply.—Median nerve. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external portion of the palmar fascia ; by its deep surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi. At its inner side it is separated by a narrow areolar interspace from the flexor brevis pollicis. This muscle must be divided from its origin and turned aside, in order to see the next. The FLEXOR OSSIS METACARPI or OPPONENS POLLICIS arisn^ from the trapezium d and annular ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the thumli on its radial liorder. Nerve - supply. — Median nerve. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the abductor pollicis. By its deep surface witli the trajDezo - metacar- pal articulation and metacarjjal bone. In- ternally with the flexor brevis pollicis. The flexor ossis metacarpi may now be divided from its origin and turned aside, in order to show the next muscle. The FLEXOR BREVIS POLLICIS consists of two portions, between which lies tlie tendon of the flexor lougus pollicis. The external portion arises from the trajjezium and annulai' ligament; the in- ternal jDortion from the trapezoid, os magnum, and base of the second and third metacarpal liones. They are inserted into the two sides of the base of the flrst phalanx of the thumb, having a sesamoid Fig. 232.—Insertion of tlie muscles of the thumb, a. Abductor jiollicis. h. Opponens pollicis. c. Outer head of flexor brevis. d. Tendon of extensor secundl internodii. e. Tendinous expansion of flexor brevis, joining tendon of extensor.