153 PHALANGES. PHALANGES. The phalanges {internodia) are the bones of the fingers ; they are named from their arrangement in rows, and are fourteen in number, three to each finger, and two to the thumb. In each finger the proximal phalanx is the longest, and the distal phalanx the shortest. In conformation they are long bones, di\dsible into a shaft and two extremities. The shaft is compressed from before backw-ards, convex on its posterior surface, and flat with raised edges in front. The meta- carpal extremity or base in the first row is a simple concave articular surface ; that in the other two rows a double concavity, separated by a slight ridge. The dicjital extremities of the first and second row present a pulley-like surface, concave in the middle, and convex at each side. The ungual extremity of the last phalanx is broad, rough, and expanded into a semilunar crest. Development.—By two centres ; one for the shaft, and one for the base. Ossification commences (during the eighth week) in the third or imgual phalanges, then in the first, and lastly in the second. The epiphyses of the first row appear during the third or fourth year, those of the second row during the fourth or fifth, and of the last during the sixth or seventh. The phalanges are perfected Ijy the twentieth year. Articulations.—The first row, with the metacarpal bones and second row of phalanges ; the second row, with the first and third ; the third, with the second row. Attachment of Muscles.—To the base of the first phalanx of the thumb fdur muscles, abductor pollicis, flexor brevis pollicis, adduc- tor pollicis, and extensor primi internodii; to the second phalanx, two, flexor longus pollicis, and extensor secundi internodii. To the first phalanx of the second, third, and fourth fingers, one dorsal and one palmar interosseous ; to that of the little finger, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and one palmar interosseous. To the second phalanges, flexor sublimis and extensor communis digi- torum ; to the last phalanges, flexor profundus and extensor communis digitorum. PELVIS AND LOWER EXTREMITY. The bones of the pelvis are the two ossa innominata, the sacrum, and the coccyx, forming the pelvic girdle; and those of the lower ex- tremity, the femur, patella, tibia and fibula, tarsus, metatarsus, and phalanges. OS INNOMINATUM. The OS innominatum (as coxce) is an irregular, flat bone, consisting in the young subject of three parts, which meet at the acetabulum. Hence it is described in the adult as divisible into three portions,