745 MINUTE STRUCTUKE OF THE LIVER. ff'jtli to i^th of an incli. When divided longitudinally, they have a foliated appearance, and transversely, a polygonal outline, with sharp or rounded angles, according to the smaller or greater quantity of areolar tissue contained in the liver. Each lobule is divided on its exterior into a base and a peripheral surface. The base corresponds with one extre- mity of the lobule, is flattened, and rests on an hepatic vein, which is thence named sublobular. The peri- pheral surface includes the rest of the surface of the lobule. In the centre of each lobule is a small vein, the intralobular, which is formed by the convergence of six or eight minute venules from the lobule. The intra- lobular vein thus constituted takes its course through the centre of the longitudinal Fig. 452.—Lobules of the liver. The lobules as they are seen on the sur- face of the liver, or when divided transversely, i. Intralobular vein in the centre of each lobule. 2. In- terlobular fissiu'e. 3. Interlobular space. axis of the lobule, l^ierces the middle of its base, and opens into the sublobular vein. The periphery of the lobule, with the exception of its base, which is always closely attached to a sublobular vein, is connected by means of its areolar tissue, with Fig. 453.—Longitudinal section of two lobules. 1. .\ superficial lobule, terminating abruptly, and re- sembling a section at its extremity. 2. A deep lobule, showing the foliated appearance of its section. 3. Intralobular vein, with its converging venules; the vein terminates iu a sublobular vein. 4. External siu-face of the lobule. the surfaces of surrounding lobules. Tlie interval between the lobules is the interlobular fissure, and the angular interstices formed by the apposition of several lobules are the interlobular spaces. In ultimate structure the lobule is composed of hepatic cells of a vascular plexus wldch receives its blood exteriorly from an interlolndar l)ranch of the portal vein and transmits it internally to the intralobular vein, the radicle of the hepatic vein, of stromal supporting tissue, and of the ultimate ramifications of the biliarv ducts. ^ The hepatic cells are nucleolo-nucleated cells, of a polyhedral figure, measuring about ^j^^ of an inch in diameter, and of a iDale amber colour. They have no distinct cell-wall, and when isolated possess the power of amceboid motion ; their contents are granular and often fatty vesicles of various sizes may be observed in theii' interior. The cells are arranged in a network correspondino- M'ith