630 ORGAN OF VISION. of the nerve fibres, and, externally, at the base of the bacillary layer. This stromal tissue also contains a large number of fibres which run vertically to the surface of the retina, and have been named the rods of Miiller. These appear to be connected externally with I'ods and cones ; some few. have been observed to join the cells of the granular layers, and some have been traced into the inter- nal limiting membrane. It is supposed that these elements connect the rods and cones with the fibres of the optic nerve, being connected intermediately with the cells of the granular layers and the multipolar cells above described ; hitherto, how- ever, this complete chain has not been satisfactorily demon- strated. At the yellow spot the retina becomes very much thinned, and the layers of which it is com- posed are one by one suppressed, until in the centre of the spot only a crowded layer of attenu- ated cones, a few cells of the outer granular layer, and a few nerve cells arranged like pave- ment epithelium, remain. At the entrance of the otitic nerve, on the other hand, the bacillary and granular layers are absent, and the layer of nerve cells exists only at the border of the colli- culus ; the nerve fibres are, how- ever, numerous, and form a very thick layer. Vessels.—The arteries of the retina are chiefly derived from the arteria centralis retinae, which enters the eye in the centre of the optic nerve, and breaks up immediately into branches, ramifying for the most part in the inner or nervous layers of the retina, the outer layers being entirely devoid of blood-vessels. The veins have a similar distribution, and terminate in the ophthalmic vein. The optic nerve and its terinination, the optic disc, receive only a few very fine branches from the arteria centralis, being chiefly supplied by vessels running inside tlie sheath and derived from the short ciliary arteries. Fig. 366.—Diagram of the structures com- posing the retina. A. The structures "viewed in situ. B. Shows the supposed connection between tlie components of the several layers, i. Bacillary layer (rods and cones). 2. Outer granular layer. 3. Outer molecular layer. 4. Inner granular layer. 5. Inner mole- cular layer. 6. Layer of nerve cells. 7. Layer of nerve fibres, a. Pigmentai-y layer. 6. External limiting membrane. c. Connecting trabeculfe (rods of Miiller). d. Internal limiting membrane.