697 EEGIONS OF ABDOMEN. divided into certain districts or regions. Tlins, if two transverse lines be carried around the body, tire one jaarallel with the cartilages of the ninth ribs, the other with the highest point of the crests of the ilia, the abdomen will be divided into three zones. Again, if a perpendicular line be drawn, at each side, from the cartilage of the eightli rib to the middle of Poupart's ligament, the three primary zones will each be subdivided into three compartments or regions, middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone being immediately over the small end of the stomach, is called epigastric (eVt yaarrjp, over the stomach). The two lateral regions being under the cartilages of the ribs, are called right and left hypochondriac (vtto xovdpot, under the cartilages). The middle region of the middle zone is the umbilical; the two lateral, the lumbar. The middle region of the inferior zone is the hypogastric (vtto yaarrjp, below the stomach); and the two lateral, the iliac. In addition to these divisions, we employ the term inguinal region, in reference to the vicinity of Poupart's ligament. Position of the Viscera.—The position of the viscera which occupy these several regions may be best xmderstood and remem bered, by arranging them in a tabular form, as follows :•— Right Hypochondriac. Right lobe of liver, Hepatiu flexure of co- lon, Upper end of kidney, Supra-renal capsule. Epigastric. Left lobe of liver. Part of right lobe, Gall-bladder, First and second parts of duodenum. Stomach, Pancreas, Part of spleen, Parts of both kidneys and supra-renal capsules. Left Hypochondriac. Great end of stomach. Spleen, Tail of pancreas. Splenic flexure of colon. Upper end of kidney. Supra-renal capsule. Right lumbar. Ascending colon. Lower part of kidney, Jejunum. Right Iliac. Caecum, Vermiform appendix. Ilium, Ureter. Umbilical. Great omentum, Mesentery, Transverse colon. Transverse duodenum. Small intestines, Part of both kidneys. Hypogastric. Ilium, (Bladder and uterus \\iien enlarged.) PERITONEUM. Left Lumbar. Descending colon. Lower ^sart of kidney. Jejunum. Left Iliac. Sigmoid flexure. Small intestines, Ureter. The peritoneum (nepireiveiv, to extend around) forms a completely shut sac, excepting in tlie female, where the peritoneum is perforated by the open extremities of tlie Fallopian tubes, and' is continuous with their mucous lining