PORTAL SYSTEM. 471 surface of the right ventricle ; one larger than the rest runs along the right border of the heart. They join to form a small trunk, which curves around the right auriculo-ventricular groove, to open directly into the auricle. The vense Thebesii are numerous minute veins which convey the venous blood directly from the substance of the heart into the right auricle. , • i • 1 The right or small coronary vein runs m the right auriculo- ventricular groove, and winds around the heart, to empty into the right end of the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus is a short but wide trunk which forms the true continuation of the great cardiac vein. It is situated at the back of the heart between the left auricle and ventricle, and is covered by the muscular fibres of the auricle ; it receives the great cardiac, posterior cardiac, and small coronary veins, and also a small vessel called the oblique vein which crosses the back of the left auricle. The coronary sinus opens into the back of the right auricle, the open- ing being guarded by a small fold of endocardium which receives the name of coronary or Thebesian valve. All the veins joining the sinus are guarded at their entrance by more or less complete valves, except tlie oblique vein. PORTAL SYSTEM. The portal system of-veins includes those belonging to the spleen, stomach, large and small intestine, and pancreas. Its vessels difter from veins in general in being devoid of valves, in terminating as well as commencing in capillaries, and in the great thickness of their muscular coat. After the blood contained in the portal vein has been distributed to the liver, it is gathered up by the hepatic veins, and conveyed into the inferior vena cava. The portal system is composed of four large veins which return the blood from the chylopoietic viscera ; they are the— Inferior mesenteric vein. Splenic vein, Superior mesenteric vein, Gastric veins. The inferior mesenteric vein receives its blood from the rectum by means of the hsemorrhoidal veins, and from the sigmoid flexure and descending colon, and ascends behind the transverse duodenum and pancreas, to terminate in the splenic vein. Its hsemorrhoidal branches inosculate with branches of the internal iliac vein, and thus establish a communication between the portal and general venous system. The superior mesenteric vein is formed by branches which collect the venous blood from the capillaries of the superior mesen- teric artery ; they constitute by their junction a large trunk, which ascends by the side of the corresponding artery, crosses the transverse portion of the duodenum, and unites behind the pancreas with the splenic in the formation of the portal vein.