249 STERNO-CLEIDO MASTOID. riorly, it will be found attached to the styloid process, from which it is reflected to the angle of the lower jaw, forming the stylo-maxil- lary ligament; followed downwards, a process of it will be found connected with the tendon of the omo-hyoid muscle, binding it down to the clavicle, while still low^er it becomes continuous with the costo-coracoid membrane. It is pierced in the posterior triangle of the neck by the external jugular vein. In the middle line the deep cervical fascia is thin above where it becomes attached to the hyoid bone, but as it descends it becomes thicker and splits into two layers, a superficial and a deep, between which there is a little fat and areolar tissue, as well as a lymphatic gland. The superficial of these layers is attached to the anterior edge of the sterno-mastoid, and below to the sternum and inter-clavicular ligament; the deep layer is intimately connected with the sterno-hyoid and sterno- thyroid, ensheathing them, and becoming attached to the posterior surface of the sternum. Still deeper in the anterior triangle, a thin sheet of fascia passes behind the depressor muscles of tlie hyoid to invest the thyroid body, and being continued on to the trachea may be traced to the fibrous layer of the pericardium, with which it blends. The deep cervical fascia also forms a sheath for the common carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and pneumogastric nerve, a fibrous sej^tum intervening between the artery and vein. That portion of the fascia which covers the muscles lying on the front of the vertebral column, and intervenes between them and the pharynx and oesophagus, is called the jore-vertebral fascia. Dissection,—Remove the deep cervical fascia and exjjose the sterno-mastoid muscle. The STERNO-CLEIDO MASTOID is the large oblicpie muscle of the neck, and is situated between tAvo layers of the deep cervical fascia. It arises, as implied by its name, from the sternum and clavicle (/cXeiSioj/), and passes obliquely upwards and backwards, to be inserted into the mastoid process of the temporal, and superior curved line of the occipital bone. The sternal portion arises by a rounded tendon, increases in breadth as it ascends, and spreads out to a considerable extent at its insertion. The clavicular portion is broad and fleshy, separate from the sternal portion below, but blended with the posterior surface of the latter as it ascends. The two portions of this muscle are sometimes described as separate muscles under the names of sterno-mastoid and cleido-mastoid, these being again occasionally subdivided, the first into sterno-mastoid and strnio-occifiial, and the second into cleido-mastoid and deido-ocdintal. The cleido-mastoid is the most deeply seated slip of the muscle, and has a separate attachment to the mastoid process; it is generallv perforated hy the spinal accessory nerve. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument, pla- tysina myoides, external jugular vein, superficial branches of the cervical plexus of nerves, and anterior layer of the deep cervical tascia. By its deep surface with the deep layer of the cervical fascia, stemo-clavicular articulation, sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, omo-