LIVER. 74° THE LIVER. The liver is the largest gland in the body, weighing ahout four pounds, and measuring through its longest diameter about twelve inches ; its breadth is commonly about six to seven inches, and its greatest thickness tliree and a half inches. It is situated in tlie right hypochondriac region, and extends across the epigastrium into the left hypochondrium, fre(piently reaching, by its left ex- tremity, the iipj)er end of the spleen. It is placed obliquely in tlie abdomen ; its convex surface looking upwards and forwards, the concave downwards and backwards. The anterior Ijorder is sharj) and free, and marked by a deep notch, and the j)Osterior rounded and broad. His has pointed out that the liver when in the body has three surfaces, and not two, as usually described. The additional Fm. 450.—Upper surface of the liver, i. Right lobe. 2. Left lobe. 3. Anterior or free border 4 Posterior or rounded border. 5. Falciform ligament. 6. Rounauga- ment 77 The two lateralligaments. 8. The space left uncovered by the perito- neum, and surrounded by the coronary hgament. 9. Inferior vena cava. 10. ^oml of the lobus Spigelii. 3. Fundus of tlie gall-bladder seen projecting beyona tiie anterior border of the right lobe. surface looks altogether backwards, and may hence be named the posterior surface ; it includes the posterior border, the whole of the Spigelian lobe, and a strip of the left lobe. The liver is in relation, superiorly and posteriorly, with the diaphragm ; mferiorly with the stomach, ascending ])ortion of tlie duodenum, transverse colon, right supra-renal l)ody, and right kidney ; and corresponds, by its free border, with the lower margin of the ribs. , ^ Ligaments —The liver is retained in its place by five ligaments, four of which are duplicatures of the ])eritoneum, situated on the convex surface of the organ ; the fifth is a fibrous cord which passes through a fossa in its under surface, from the umbilicus to the inferior vena cava. They are the— Falciform, Two lateral, Coronary, E-ound.