8oo MAMMARY GLANDS. The secretion of milk is elfected by tlie foi'mation of oil- giolmlert in the epithelial cells of tlie gland-vesicles ; the epithelial cells being perfected, are pushed outwards and displaced hy a new layer of similar cells which form beneath them ; they are thus cm - ried forward into tlie lacteal ducts, where the cell bursts and gi\ ( > exit to its oil-globules, now become milk-glohuks; and tlie cel]- membrane and nucleus are lost. These milk-globules suspended in a fluid, the milk-ijlasma, constitute the milk. Previously to concep- tion, the mammae only secrete a yellowish viscid mucus, and at llic commencement of lactation the milk is imperfect and termed coi't- strum, having entering into its composition a number of cells fille'l with yellow fat globiiles, named colostrum corpuscles. The mammary gland of the male is rudimentary ; it varies in size fi'om a quarter of an inch to two inches in breadth, by one three lines in thickness. It is firm in texture, presents no division into lobes, and its ducts are small without dilatations, and terminate in gland-vesicles larger than those of the female. At birth the mammary' gland measures between two and four lines in breadth, and presents from twelve to fifteen lolnilar divi- sions, and then goes on gradually, but very slowly, increasing in bulk. True gland-vesicles do not make their appearance until the period of menstruation, and are not fully developed throughout the entire gland until the first pregnancy. After the period of child- bearing, the gland generally degenerates, the gland-vesicles di.-^- apjsear, and in old age the organ passes into a state of atrophy, the ducts, with their epithelium in a state of fatty degeneration, alone remaining, surrounded by a cushion of fat which takes the place of the glandular tissue. Vessels and Nerves.—The mammse are supplied with a.rterii.< from the thoracic branches of the axillary, the intercostals, and internal mammary ; having entered the substance of the gland they divide into capillaries, which constitute a close network around the gland-vesicles. The veins form an incomplete circle around the base of the nipple, circulus verifsus Halleri, from which larger veins conduct the blood to the circumference of the gland, and by these communications form a plexus on its surface. They terminate in the axillary vein, internal mammary, intercostals, and jugular vein?. The lymphatics are abundant in the integument covering the mamniEe. In the gland itself the lymphatic capillaries commence in the fibrous connective tissue between the gland vesicles, and thr vessels formed therefrom accompany the veins and milk-ducts. The main lymphatic trunks run for the most part along the edge of the pectoralis major muscle to end in the axillary glands, but_ othei.- pass through the intercostal spaces to reach the anterior mediastinal glands. The nerves of the mammary gland are derived from the ante- rior cutaneous branches of the second, third, and fourth intei- costal nerves, and from the lateral cutaneous branches of the same nerves.