289 INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE. be made to the crest of the pubis, and the aponeurosis included in these incisions to be turned down to Poupart's ligament. The remainder of the muscle ihay be removed by carrying a perpen- dicular incision from the end of the first up to the chest, and dis-. secting off the aponeurosis and muscle. The INTERNAL OBLIQUE MUSCLE (obliquus internus abdominis, ascendens) is the middle flat muscle of the abdomen. It arises from the outer half of Poupart's ligament, from the middle of the crest of the ilium for the anterior two-thirds its length, and from the fascia luniborum. Its fibres diverge from their origin, those from Pou- part's ligament curving downwards, those from the anterior -part of the crest of the ilium passing transversely, and the rest ascending obliquely. The muscle is inserted into the jjectineal line and crest of the pubes, linea alba, and lower border of the four inferior ribs. Along the upper three-fourths of the linea semilifiiaris, the apo- neurosis of the internal oblique separates into two lamellae, which pass one in front, the other behind the rectus muscle to the linea alba, where they are inserted ; the former of these unites mth the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and the latter with that of the transversalis. Along the lower fourth of the linea semilunaris, the' aponeurosis does not divide, but passes in front of the rectus. The lowest fibres of the internal oblique are inserted into the crest and pectineal line of the pubes in common with those of the trans- versalis muscle. Hence the tendon of this insertion is called the conjoined tendon of the interiml oblique and transversalis. This tendon is situated directly behind the external abdominal ring, and serves to strengthen what would otherwise be a weak point in the abdomen. Sometimes the tendon is insufficient to resist the internal pressiire, and is forced through the external ring ; it then forms the distinctive covering of direct inguinal hernia. Nerve-supply.—Ilio-inguinal and ilio-hypogastric of first lumbar, and anterior branches of lower intercostal nerves. The spermatic cord passes beneath the arched border of the internal oblique muscle, between it and Poupart's ligament. The interval between this lower border and Poupart's ligament is there- fore called the spermatic or inguinal canal. During its passage some fibres are given oft' from the lower border of the muscle, which accompany the cord downwards to the testicle, and form loops around it; this is the cremaster muscle. The CREMASTER, considered as a distinct muscle, arises from the middle of Poupart's ligament, and forms a series of loops upon the spermatic cord. A few of its fibres are inserted into the tunica vagmalis ; the rest ascends along the inner side of the cord, to be inserted, with the conjoined tendon, into the crest of the pubes in front of the sheath of the rectus. Where the muscle spreads out over the tunica vaginalis and spermatic cord it receives the name of cremasteric fascia. Relations.—The internal oblique is in relation by its external stirface witli the external oblique, latissimus dorsi, spermatic cord, T