422 ABDOMINAL AORTA. The cystic artery, generally u biancli of the right hepatic, is of small size, and ramifies between the coats of tlie gall-bladder, pre- viously to its <listril)ution to the mucous membrane. The SPLENIC ARTERY, the largest of the three branches of the coeliac axis, passes horizontally to the left along the upper border of the pancreas, and divides into five or six large branches, which enter the hilum of the spleen, and are distributed to its structure. In its course the vessel is tortuous and serpentine, frequently making a complete turn upon itself. It lies in a narrow groove in the upper border of the pancreas, and is accompanied by the splenic vein which lies beneath it, and by the splenic plexus of nerves. The branches of the sjjlenic artery are the— Pancreatica3 parvae, Vasa brevia, Pancreatica magna, Gastro-epiploica sinistra. The pancreaticae parvse are numerous small branches distributed to the pancreas, as the splenic artery runs along its upper border. One of these, larger than the rest, follows the course of the pancreatic duct, and is called pancreatica magna. The vasa brevia are five or six branches of small size which pass from the extremity of the splenic artery and its terminal branches, between the layers of the gastro-splenic omentum, to the great end of the stomach, to which they are distributed, inosculating with branches of the gastric artery and gastro-epiploica sinistra. The gastro-epiploica sinistra appears to be the continuation of the splenic artery ; it passes forwards from left to right, along the great curve of the stomach, lying between the layers of the great omentum, and inosculates with the gastro-epiploica dextra. It is distributed to the greater curve of the stomach and great omentum. The SUPERIOR "mesenteric ARTERY, the second of the single trunks, and next in size to the celiac axis, arises from the aorta immediately below that vessel, and behind the pancreas. It jjasses forwards between the pancreas and transverse duodenum, and de- scends within the layers of the mesentery, to the right iliac fossa, where it terminates, much reduced iu size. In its course it forms a curve, the convexity being to the left, the concavity to the right; is in relation near its commencement with the portal vein, and is ac- companied by the vein of the same name, which lies in front of it, and by the superior mesenteric plexus of nerves. The branches of the superior mesenteric artery are— Pancr eati co-duodenalis I le o- coli ca, inferior, Colica dextra, Vasa intestiiii tenuis, Colica media. The pancreatico-duodenalis inferior is a small branch which arises from the superior mesenteric while behind the pancreas, and curves upwards along the line of junction of the pancreas, and duo- denum. It supplies both those organs, and inosculates with the pancreatico-duodenal branch of the hepatic.