OS HYOIDES. OS HYOIDES. The OS hyoides (lingual bone) gives su2:)port to the tongue, and attachment to numerous muscles in the neck. It is named from its resemblance to the Greek letter v, and consists of a central portion or body, of two larger cornua, which i:)roject backwards from the body ; and two lesser cornua, which ascend from the angle of viiiion between the body and the greater cornua. The body (basi-hyal) is somewhat quadrilateral, rough and convex on its antero-superior surface, by which it gives attachment to muscles; con- cave and smooth on the postero-in- ferior surface, by which it lies in con- tact with the thyro-hyoid membrane. The greater cornua {thyro-hyals) are flattened from above downwards, and terminated posteriorly by a tubercle ; and the lesser cornua (cerato-Iiyals), fig. 122.-The os hyoides seen conical in form, give attachment to fi'om before, i. Antero-superior, the stylo-hvoid ligaments. In earlv p"" "T^^"^ ?^ ^■ ' T ■ • , 1 r li- i^i Oreat cornu of the left side. ^. age and m the adult the cornua are Lesser cornu of the same side, connected with the body by distinct diarthrodial joints ; in old age they become united by bone. Development.—By five centres, one for the body, and one for each cornu. Ossification commences in the greater cornua and body during the last month of fa'tal life, and in the lesser cornua soon after birth. The cornua do not unite with the body till after middle life. Attachment of Muscles.—To eleven pairs : sterno-hyoid, thyro- hyoid, omo-hyoid, pulley of the digastricus, stylo-hyoid, mylo-hyoid, genio-hyoid, genio-hyo-glo.ssus, hyo-glossus, lingualis, and middle constrictor of the pharynx. It also gives attachment to the stylo- hyoid, thyro-hyoid, and hyo-epiglottic ligaments, and to the thvro- hyoid membrane. THE THORAX. The skeleton of the thorax consists of the dorsal vertebra? alreadv described, the sternum, ribs, and costal cartilages. ' STERNUM. The sternum (Fig. 123) is situated in the middle line of the front of the chest, and is oblique in direction, the superior end Ivin? within a few inches of the vertebral column, the inferior beine pro- jected forwards so as to be placed at a considerable distance from the spine. The bone is flat in front, and marked by five transverse lines