194 LIGAMENTS 0¥ THE PELVIS. 1st, Between the sacrum and ilmm. Anterior sacro-iliac, Posterior sacro-iliac. 2iul, Between the sacrum and ischium. Lesser sacro-ischiatic, Greater sacro-ischiatic. 4th, Between the sacrum and coccyx. Anterior sacro-coccygean, Posterior sacro-coccygean. Between the pubic bones. Anterior i^ubic, Superior luibic, Posterior jDubic, Sub-pubic, Interosseous fibro-cartilage. I. Between the Sacrum and Ilium.—This joint is commonly known as the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, but is sometimes called the sacro-iliac symphysis; it belongs to the class amphi-arthrosis. The anterior sacro-iliac ligament consists of numerous short ligamentous bands and fibres, which j^ass from bone to bone on the anterior surface of the joint. The posterior sacro-iliac or interosseous ligament is composed of numerous strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, which pass horizontally be- tween the rough surfaces of the posterior half of the sacro-iliac articulation, and constitute the principal bond of connection between the sacrum and ilium. They are lodged in the hollow between the posterior surface of the sacrum and the back- ward projection of the ilium. One fasciculus of this ligament, longer and larger than the rest, is distinguished, from its direc- tion, by the name of oblique sacro-iliac ligament. It is attached, by one extremity, to the pos- terior superior spine of the ilium ; and, by the other, to the third transverse tubercle on the posterior surface of the sacrum. The surfaces of the two bones forming the sacro-iliac articulation are partly connected by cartilage, and partly rough and connected by the interosseous ligament. The anterior or auricular half Fig. i6o.—Ldgaments of the pelvis and hip- joint. I. Lower part of the anterior com- mon ligament of the vertebi-se, extending downwards over the front of tlie sacrum. 2. Sacro-lumbar ligament. 3. Ilio-lumbar ligament. 4. Anterior sacro-iliac ligament. 5. Obturator membrane. 6. Poupart's liga- ment. 7. Gimbernat's ligament. 8. Cap- sular ligament of the hip-joint. 9. Ilio- femoral or accessory ligament.