782 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. ol these cones tubes of larger size proceed, which constitute, by their complex convolutions, the body of tlie epididymis. The tube, become gradually larger towards the lower end of the epididymis, aii<l ternunate in a single large and convoluted duct, the vas deferens. The walls of the seminal tuljules are formed of a basement mem- brane, consisting of several layers of flattened epithelial cells. Th- tubes are occupied by cells, which are in some ])laces situated at thi- circumference on]}, a small lumen oi cavity being left in the centre ; but in the adult testicle the\ generally form a con- fused mass filling uj) the entire tube. In many cases there is n pretty definite layei' of cubical or flat- tened cells next tin- basement membrane, and these have been named the outer or lining cells. Tlie cell - placed internally to these are large and clear ; the ajipear- ance of their nuclei indicates that they are proliferating, and they have accord- ingly been named the intermediate or proliferating cells. Within these, again, the cells ai'e united to form an almost indistinguishable mass, in which the heads of the spermatazoa are imbedded, the tails being free in tlie lumen of the tube (innermost or nutritive cells). Between the tubes the blood-vessels, lymphatics, and nerves ramify ; they are supported by a peculiar tissue containing a large quantity of nuclear and molecular elements, and in Avhicli there are lacunar spaces lined by a flattened eijithelium, these sjjaces being the radicles of the lymphatics. The epididymis is formed by the convolutions of the excretory seminal ducts, externally to the testis, and previously to theii' termination in the vas deferens. The more numerous convolutions and the aggregation of the coni vasculosi at tlie upper end of the organ constitute the globus major ; the continuation of the convo- lutions downwards is the body ; and the smaller number of con- volutions of the single tube at the lower extremity, tlie globus minor. The tubuli are connected together by filamentous ai'eolar tissue, and bands of fibrous tissue. Fio. 481.—Section of the tubuli seminiferi of a rat. a. Tubuli in which the spermatozoa are commencing to form. b. Spermatozoa more fully developed, c. Spermatozoa fully developed. (E. A. Scliiifer.)