144 ULNA. internal surface is covered in for the greater part of its extent by the llexor profundus digitorum. The anterior border is rounded, and gives origin by its lower fourth to the pronator quadratus. Tlie posterior is prominent, and aflbrds attacliment to the tendinous ex- pansion common to tlie llexor carpi ulnaiis, extensor carpi ulnaris, and flexor profundus digitorum ; expanding at tlie upper extremity into the triangular subcutaneous surface of the olecranon. The external or radial border is sharp and prominent, for the attach- ment of the interosseous membrane. The lower extremity tei^niiuates in a small rounded head, capi- hdum ulna;, fi'om the side of wliich projects the styloid process. The latter j^resents a deep notch at its base for the attachment of the apex of the triangular interarticular cartilage, and by its point gives attachment to the internal lateral ligament. On tlie posterior sur- face of the head is a groove, for the tendon of the extensor carpi nlnaris ; and on the side opposite the styloid process a smooth sur- face, for articulation -with the side of the radius. Development.—By three centres; one for the shaft, one for the inferior extremity, and one for the tip of the olecranon. Ossification commences in the ulna during the eighth week ; the ends of the torum, flexor carpi ulnaris, pronator quadratus, supinator brevis, anconeus, extensor carpi ulnaris, extensor ossis metiicai'iji pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, and extensor indicis. Toone are cartilaginous at l:)irth. The centre for the lower end aijj)ears at about the fifth, that for the tip of the olecranon about the tenth, year. The upper epij)liysis joins the shaft about the six- teenth year, and the lower epiphysis joins about the twentieth. Articulations.—With tu-o bones ; humerus and radius ; it is separated from the cunei- form bone of the carpus by the triangular interarticular cartilage. Attachment of Muscles. —To thirteen: by the ole- cranon to the tricejis, one head of the flexor carj)i ulnaris, and anconeus; by the coronoidpro- cess, brachialis anticus, pro- nator radii teres, flexor sub- limis digitorum, and flexor lirofundus digitorum ; by the sliaft, flexor profundus digi-