PELVIS. 159 pectineal line. The true pelvis is all that portion which is situated below this line, which thus forms the margin or brim of the true pelvis, while the included area is called the inlet. The form of the inlet IS heart-shaped, obtusely pointed in front at the symphysis pubis, expanded on each side, and encroached upon behind by a projection of the upper part of the sacrum, which is named the pro- montory. The cavity is somewhat encroached upon at each side bv a smooth quadrangular plane of bone, corresponding with the internal surface of the acetabulum, and prolonged posteriorly into the spine of the ischium. In front are two fossae around the ob- turator foramina, for lodging the obturator internus muscle at each side. The inferior tei'mination of the pelvis is very irregular, and is termed the outlet. It is bounded, in front, by the convergence of the rami of the ischium and pubes, which constitute the arch of the pubes; on eacli side by the tuberosity of the ischium, and two ii'regular fissures formed hj the greater and lesser saci'o-ischiatic notches; and behind by the lateral borders of the sacrum, and the coccyx. . The pelvis is placed obliquely with regard to the trunk of the Ijody, the inner surface of the pulies being directed upwards, and serving to support the weight of the abdominal "\dscera. The base of the sacrum rises nearly four inches above the ],evel of the upper border of the symphysis pubis, and the apex of the coccyx somewhat more than half an inch above its lower border. If a line were carried through the central axis of the inlet, it would impinge by one extremity against the iimbilicus, and l)y the other against the middle of the coccyx. The axis of the inlet is, therefore, di- rected wpwarils and forwards, while that of the outlet points downwards and forwards, and corresponds with a line drawn from the upper part of the sacrum, through the centre of the outlet. The axis of the cavity represents a curve, corre- sponding very nearly with the curve of the sacrum, the extremities being indicated by the central points of the inlet and outlet. A knowledge of the direction of these axes is important to the surgeon, as indicating the line in which instruments should be used in opera- tions upon the viscera of the pelvis, and the direction of force in the Fig. 139.—Angle of inclination of the brim of the pelvis 144° to tlie perpendicular,or 54° to the horizontal line.