TEMPORAL BONE. 94 pieces are separate at birth, and unite hy suture during tlie first year, the suture sometimes remaining permanent through life, frontal suture. The frontal sinuses make their appearance during Fio. 98.—Internal suiface of tlje frontal bone ; the bone is raised to chow the oi bito-nasal portion. I. Grooved ridge for the lodg. ment of the superior longitu- dinal sinus and attachment of the falx. 2. Foramen ca;cum. 3. Superior or coronal border of the bone; the figure is nltuated near that part which is bevelled at the expense of the internal table. 4. inferior border of the bone, 5. Orbital plate of the left side. 6. Cellular border of the ethmoidal fissure. The fora- men cfecum (2) is .seen through the ethmoidal fissure. 7. An- terior and posterior internal or- bital foramen. 8. Nasal spine. 9. Tlie depression for the lach- rymal gland. 10. Depression for tlie pulley of the .superior oblique muscle of the eye ; immediately to the left of this number is the supraorbital notch, and to its right the internal angular pro- cess. II. Opening leading into the frontal sinuses; the leading line crosses the internal angular process. 12. External angular process. The corresponding parts are seen on the other side of the figure. the seventh year, and inci^ease in size until old age. This bone is entirely developed in membrane. Articulations.—With twelve bones : two parietal, sphenoid, eth- FiG. gg.—Shows .articulation of nasal spine of frontal with neighbouring bones, i. Nasal. 2. Nasal spine of frontal. 3. Nasal process of superior maxillary. 4. Central lamella of ethmoid. 5. Lateral mass of ethmoid. 6. Anterior ethmoidal cell. 7. Superior meatus. moid, two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, and two malar. Attachment of Muscles.—To three pairs : corrugator superciln, to the inner end of the superciliary ridge ; temporal to the temporal fossa ; and orbicularis palpel)raruiii, to the internal angular process. TEMPORAL BONE. le temporal bone is situated at the side and base of the skull. Tl and contains in its interior the into a squamous, mastoid, and petrous portion organ of hearing. It is divisible