INTEENAL PUDIC AETERY. 431 Branches —The branches of the internal pudic artery within the pelvis are several small twigs to the levator ani and sacral nerves ; and occasionally a branch which takes the place of the inferior vesical or middle hasmorrhoidal artery. The branches given off externally to the pelvis are the— Inferior hzemorrhoidal, Ai'tery of the bulb, Superficial perineal, Artery of the corpus cavernosuui, (Transverse perineal), Artery of the dorsum of the penis. The inferior hsemorrhoidal arteries are three or four small Fig. 265.—Arteries of the perineum; on the right side the superficial arteries are seen, on the left the deep. i. The penis; the crus penis of the left side is cut through. 2. Bulbo-cavernosus muscles, enclosing the bulbous portion of the corpus spongiosum. 3. Ischio-cavernosus, spread out upon the crus penis of the right side. 4. Anus, surrounded by the sphincter ani. 5. Ramus of ischium and pubes. 6. Tuberosity of ischium. 7. Lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament. 8. Coccyx. 9. In- ternal pudic artery, crossing the spine of the ischium, and entering the perineum. 10. Inferior hsemorrhoidal bi-anches. n. Superficial perineal artery, giving off a small branch, transverse perineal, upon the transversus perinei muscle. 12. The same artery on tlie left side cut off. 13, Artery of the bulb. 14. The artery of the corpus cavernosura and artery of the dorsum of the penis. branches, given off by the internal pudic while behind the tuberosity of the iscliium. They cross the ischio-rectal fossa, and are distri- buted to the anus and to the muscles and integument of the anal region of the perineum, anastomosing with the branches of tlie middle hajmorrhoidal. Tlie superficial perineal artery is given off neai- the attachment of the crus petiis ; it pierces the connecting layer of the perineal fascia and triangular ligament, and runs forward across the trans- versus perinei muscle, and along the groove between the accelerator urinae and erector penis to the septum scroti, upon Avhich it ramifies under the name of arteria septi. It distributes branches to the scrotum and perineum. One of the latter, larger than the rest,