711 PREMOLAR AND MOLAR TEETH. cisors, convex before, concave behind, and tapering to a blunted point or cusp. The root is longer than that of all the other teetli, compressed at each side, and marked by a slight groove. The upper canine teeth (called eye-teeth) are longer and larger than the lower, and are situated a little behind and external to them. The bicuspid or premolar teeth, two at each side in each jaw, follow the canine, and are intermediate in size between them and the molars. The crown is compressed from before back- -age. wards, and surmounted by two tubercles, one internal, ^m^^ the other external, the latter being the largest. The neck is oval; the root is compressed, marked on each side by a deep groove, and bifid near its apex. The teeth of the upper jaw have a greater tendency to the division ■^^Qj-j^^jf^" of their roots than those of the lower, and the jDOsterior sm-facTof than the anterior pair. The lower bicuspids are smaller an upper than the upper ; their outer cusp is long and prominent, bicuspid, and is bent inwards ; the inner cusp is smaller, and is connected with the outer by a slight ridge. The molar teeth (grinders), three at each side in each jaw, are the largest of the permanent set. The first molar is the largest and Fig. 419.—Masti- Fig. 420.—Masticating surface Fig. 421.—Masticating surface eating surface and side view of first lower and side view of second of a first upper molar of right side. The lower molar of right side, molar of the small figures indicate the The small figures indicate left side. five cusps. the four cusps. broadest, and the third is the smallest, so that there is a gradation of size of these teeth. The crown is quadrilateral, and is surmounted by four or five tubercles (four in the upper, five in the loAver molars); the neck is large and round, and the root divided into several fangs. In the upper jaw the first and second molar teeth have three roots (sometimes four), more or less widely separated from each other, two of the roots being external, the otlier internal. In the lower there are but two roots, anterior and'posterior, fiattened from Ijehind forwards, and grooved so as to mark a tendency to division. The first lower molar has five cusps (Fig. 420), three outer aud two inner, the fifth cusp being postero-external; its anterior fang has two pulp cavities. The third molars, or wisdom- teeth (dentes sapientise), are smaller than the other tAvo ; they present three tid)ercles on the surface of the crown, and the root is single and grooved, appearing to be made up of four or five fangs com- pressed together, or partially divided. In the loAver jaw the fangs