128 SPHENO-MAXJLLARY FOSSA. glands. The central axis of eacli orbit is directed outwards, so that the axes of the two, continued into the skull through the optic foramina, would intersect over the middle of the sella turcica. The superior houndary of the orbit is formed by the orbital plate of the frontal bone, and part of the lesser wing of the sphenoid ; the inferior by part of the malar bone, superior maxillary, and orbital plate of the palate bone ; the ii( terncd, by the nasal process of the superior maxillary, lachrymal, os planum of the ethmoid, and part of the body of the sphenoid ; the external, by the orbital process of the malar bone and great wing of the sphenoid. These may be expressed more clearly in a tabular form :— Frontal. Sphenoid (lesser wing). Outer wall. Malar. Sphenoid (greater wing) Inner wall. Superior maxilla (nasal process). Lachrymal. Ethmoid (os planum). Sphenoid (body). Malar. Superior Maxillary. Palate. There are niae openings communicating with the orbit : the optic, for the admission of the optic nerve and oijhthalmic artery; the sphenoidal fisstire, for the transmission of the third, fourth, the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the fifth nerve, the sixth nerve, and the ophthalmic vein ; the spheno-viaxillary fissure, for the jjassage of the superior maxillary nerve and infraorbital artery to the opening of entrance of the infraorbital canal; temporo-malar foramina, two or three small openings in the orbital process of the malar bone, for the passage of filaments of the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve; anterior and j^osterior internal orbital foramina in the suture between the os planum and frontal bone, the former transmitting the nasal nerve and anterior ethmoidal vessels, the latter the posteiior ethmoidal vessels; the opening of the nasal duct; and the supraorbital notch or foramen, for the supraorbital nerve and artery. SPHENO MAXILLARY FOSSA. This is a small space situated between the bones of the head and those of the face ; it corresponds in position to the junction of the spheno-maxillary and pterygo-maxillary fissures. It is triangular in form, and is bounded above by the body of the sphenoid and orbital process of the palate, in front "by the superior maxillary, behind by the base of the pterygoid plate and lower part of the anterior surface