28 MUSCLE. Muscular fibres are of two kinds, voluntary and involuntary tlie former are the most numerous, foiiiiing tlie great musculaij masses whicli move tlie sevei al parts of the body ; tlie iuvoluntaryt muscular fibres assist in forming the walls of "the hollow viscera^ and the middle coat of arteries and veins ; they are also found ini the iris, ciliary muscle, and the bronchial tuljes. Peculiarities ini their stinicture also lead to muscular fibres being distinguislied as« striated and non-striated, the striated being voluntary in Iheirr action, and the non-striated involuntaiy, with the exception of the; heart, which, altliough involun-- tary in its action, is composed I of striated muscular fibre. Striated or voluntary mus- cular fibres are collected into bundles, held together by deli- cate ai'eolar tissue, and enclosed in a sheath or perimysium, foimed of areolar tissue, with an admixture of elastic tissue, which also sends processes in- wards between the fibres {e7i- doviysium). These bundles are called fasciculi, they are pris- matic in shape, and of difterent sizes in difterent muscles, the ajjparent coarseness or fineness of a muscle depending chiefly on the size of the fasciculi. The fibres themselves are cy- lindrical, or oval in shape, and are nearly uniform in sizt\ They average to of an inch in diameter, but in the facial muscles the fibres are much finer, some of them not 41.—I. Striated muscle fibre breaking „..„„„,i,-,,„ \ nf mi inch „p into primitive fibrilliB, more dis- exceeding 01 an incll. tiiict striatioii at b, and longit^udinal lines Each fibre IS enclosed 111 a ate; cz, nuclei. 2. A fibre, 6, torn through fdnjatii of transparent, aii])ai- at 0, with the sarcolemmapartially empty , , and visible. ^ i' ^ g^^-jy homogeneous, membrane, the sarcolemma or myohmma. So delicate is this structure that it only becomes visible when the contained fibrils become ru])tured, as in fig. 41. It is rather tough, and resembles elastic tissue in its physical and chemical properties. When examined under a high niicrosco])ic power the muscular fibres are found to l)e marked at regular intervals by transA-erse striic ; these are the characteristic markings which dis- tinguish this kind of muscle, not only from the unstrii)ed variety, but* also from e\-ery other tissue in' the body. The stripes are alternately light and dark, each stripe being about ^-^l^ of an