TIBIALIS POSTICUS, 369 Relations.—By its superficial surface with tlie intermuscular fascia, which separates it from the soleus, and with the posterior tibial vessels and nerve. By its deep surface with the tibia and tibialis posticus. In the sole of the foot its tendon is in relation with the abductor hallucis and flexor brevis digitorum, which lie super- ficially to it, and it crosses the tendon of the flexor longus Rallucis. At the point of crossing it receives a tendinous slij) of communi- cation. Nerve-supply.—Posterior tibial. Dissection.—The flexor longus hallucis must now be removed from its origin, and the flexor longus digitorum drawn aside, to bring into view the entire extent of the tibialis posticus. The TIBIALIS POSTICUS lies upon the interosseous membrane, between the two bones of the leg. It arises by two heads from the adjacent sides of the tibia and fibula their whole length except about two inches at the lower end, from the interosseoiis membrane, and from an a]5oneurosis which binds it in its place. Its tendon passes inwards beneath the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum, and runs in the same sheath ; it then passes through a proper sheath over the deltoid ligament, and beneath the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, to be inserted into the tuberosity of the scaphoid and internal cunei- form boixe, a process of its tendon being prolonged outwards to the external cuneiform, and other processes -being connected with the middle cuneiform, the cuboid, and the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. While in the common sheath behind the internal malleolus, the tendon of the tibialis posticus lies internally to that of the flexor longus digitorum, from which it is separated by a thin fibrous par- tition. A sesamoid bone is usually met with in the tendon close to its insertion. Eelations.—By its superficial surface with the intermuscular septum, flexor longus hallucis, flexor longus digitorum, posterior tibial vessels and nerve, peroneal vessels, and in the sole of the foot the abductor hallucis. By its deep surface with the interosseous membrane, fibula and tibia, ankle-joint and astragalus. The anterior til)ial artery passes between the two heads of the muscle. Nerve-supply.—Posterior tibial. The student will observe that the two latter muscles change their relative position to each other in their course. Thus, in the leg the position of the three muscles from within outAvards is, flexor 2 A Fig. 245.—Relations of parts behind the inner malleolus. 1,1. Tibialis posticus. 2. Tendo-Achillis. 3. Tibialis anticus. 4, 4. Flexor longus digitorum. 6. Pos- terior tibial artery. 8. Posterior tibial nerve. The tendon of the flexor longus hallucis is too deeply placed to be shown in this view.