LINGUAL ARTERY. 38S of tlie thyroid gland, forming a free anastomosis in its substance Avitli the branches of the inferior thyroid. The LINGUAL ARTERY ascends obliquely from its origin ; it then j^asses forwards parallel with the great cornu of the hyoid bone ; thirdly, it ascends to the under surface of the tongixe ; and foiu'thly, runs forwai'd in a serpentine direction to its tip, under the name of ranine artery^ where it terminates by being distribiited to the muscles and mucous membrane of the tongue. Eelations.—The first part of its course rests on the middle con- strictor muscle of the pharynx, being covered in by the tendon of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoid muscle ; the second is situated between the middle constrictor and hyo-glossus muscle, the latter separating it from the hypoglossal nerve ; in the third part of its course it lies between the hyo-glossus and genio-hyo-glossus ; and in the fourth (ranine), rests on the lingualis to the tip of the tongiie. Branches.—Hyoid, Dorsalis lingute. Sublingual, Eanine. The hyoid branch runs along the upper border of the os hyoides, and is distributed to the elevator muscles of the os hyoides near Fig. 252.—Lingual artery and branches, i. Stylo-glossus muscle. '2. Ranine artery 3. Doi-salis linguaj artery. 4. Genio-hyo-glossus muscle. 5. Middle constrictor 6. Genio-hyoid muscle. 7, 7. Hyo-glossus (cut). 8. Sublingual artery. 9. Ex- ternal carotid artery. II. Lingual artery. 13. Hyoid branch. tlieir insertion, inosculating with its fellow of the opposite side, and with the hyoid branch of the superior thyroid when that branch IS present. The dorsalis linguae springs from the artei'y beneath the hyo- glossus ; it ascends along the posterior border of the hyo-glossus muscle to the dorsum of the tongue, and is distributed to the tongue, fauces and epiglottis ; anastomosing with its fellow of the oppo- site side. ^ ^ riie sublingual branch runs forward on the genio-hyo-glossus muscle, and is distrilnited to the sublingual gland, mucous mem- 2 B