i73 PHALANGES. The fourth may be distinguished hy its smaller size, and by having a single articular surface on each side of the base, the facet on the outer side being bounded distally by a very deep pit for an inter- osseous ligament. When held with the base backwards and dorsal surface upwards, the most prominent angle at the base will point to the foot to which the bone belongs. The fifth is recognised by its broad base, and by the large tuberosity at its outer side. Development.—Each bone by tivo centres ; one for the body and one for the digital extremity in the four outer metatarsal bones ; and one for the body, the other for the base, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. In the latter toe there is frequently a second or distal epiphysis. Ossification appears in the shafts of these bones at about the eighth or ninth week ; the epiphyses appear in the heads of the metatarsals of the four outer toes about the third year, and in the base of that of the great toe iu the fifth year, consolida- tion being effected at eighteen. Articulations.—With the tarsal bones by one extremity, and first row of phalanges by the other. Tlie numl^er of tarsal "bones with which each metatarsal articulates from Avithin outwards, is the same as between the bones of the metacarpus and carpus, one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourtli, and one for the fifth. Attachment of Muscles.—To fourteen: to the first, peroneus longus and first dorsal interosseous ; to the second, two dorsal inter- ossei and transversus pedis ; to the third, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor hallucis and transvei'sus pedis ; to the fourth, two dorsal and one plantar interosseous, adductor hallucis and trans- versus pedis; to tlie fifth, one dorsal and one plantar interosseous, peroneus brevis, peroneus tertius, al)ductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and transversus pedis. PHALANGES. There are two phalanges in the great toe and three in the other toes, as in the hand. They are long bones, divisible into a central portion and extremities. The phalanges of the first row are convex above, concave on the under surface, and compressed from side to side. The proximal ex- tremity has a single concave articular surface, for the head of the metatarsal bone ; the distal extremity, a pullev-like surface, for the second phalanx. The second phalanr/es are short and diminuti\-e, but somewhat broader than those of the first row. The third or ungual phalanges, including the second phalanx of the great toe, are flattened from above downwards, spread out later- ally at the base to articulate with the second row, and at the oppo- site extrenuty to support the nail and the rounded extremitv of the toe.