192 ARTICULATIONS OF THE COSTAL CARTILAGES. The posterior costo-transverse ligament is a small but strong fasciculus, passing obli(picly from tlie tuliercle of the ril> to the apex of the transverse pi'ocess. The articulation l)etween the tubercle of the rib and the transvei'se process is provided with a small synovial mend)rane. This ligament is al)sent in the two last ribs. Several accessory bands are found passing Itetween tlie transverse ])rocesses and tlie ribs ; a Ijroad Ijand of this kind cormects the last rib with the transverse process of the first or second lundiar vertebra. Actions.—The movements permitted by the articulations of the ril)S are ujnvards, downwards, and nMghUj forioards and backwards; the movement increasing in extent from the head to the extremity of the rib. The forward and backward movement is trifling in tlie seventh superior, but greater in the inferior ribs ; the eleventh and twelfth are very movable. 7. ARTICULATION OF THE COSTAL CARTILAGES WITH THE STERNUM, AND WITH EACH OTHER. — The ligaments of the chondro-sternal articulations are :— Anterior chondro-sternal, Superior chondro-sternal, Posterior chondro-sternal. Inferior chondro-sternal, Synovial membranes. The anterior chondro-sternal ligament (anterior stellate liga- ment) is a thin band of ligamentous fibres, passing in a radiated direction from the extremity of the costal cartilage to the anterior surface of the sternum, and intermingling its fibres with those of the ligament of the opposite side, and with the tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoralis major muscle. The posterior chondro-sternal ligament, much smaller than the anterior, consists of a thin fasciculus of fibres, situated on the posterior surface of the articulation. The superior and inferior chondro-sternal ligaments are narrow fasciculi corresponding with the breadth of the cartilage, and connecting its superior and inferior liorder the side of the sternum. The synovial membrane is absent in the articulation of the first rib, its cartilage being usually adherent to the sternum ; that of the second rib has an interarticular ligament, with two synovial mem- branes ; the synovial meml)ranes of the other costal cartilages are single. 'the sixth and seventh ribs have several fasciculi of strong liga- mentous fibres, passing from the extremity of their cartilages to the anterior surface of the ensiform cartilage, which latter they are intended to support. They are named the chondro-xyphoid liga- TTP ftTL'tiS The "sixth, seventh, and eighth, and sometimes the fifth and the ninth costal cartilages, have articulations with each other, and a synovial membrane for each articulation. They are connected by li"amentous fibres {ligamenta corruscantia), which pass from one cartilage to the other.