So LUMBAE VERTEBRA. each side of the upper part of the l)ody. Tlie tenth has a single entire articular surface at eacli side. Tlie eleventh and twelfth have eacli a single entire articular surface at each side; lhe\- approach in character the luniljar vertebrae; their ti'ans\'ers(- processes are very short, and have no articulation with the coi- responding ribs. The articular facets are ])laced jiartly on tlie thick and strong laniinee, and partly on the bodies. The transveisc l)rocesses of the twelfth doi'sal vertebra are iiulinientary, and aic mai'ked by three elevations, the exLernal, inferior and superior tubercles, corres])onding to the transverse, accessory and nianiniillary tuljercles of lumbar vertel)ra3; traces of like tubercles are also observed in tin- tenth and eleventh vertebrae. The inferior articular processes oi the last dorsal are convex and look outwards. Lumbar Vertebrae.—These are the largest pieces of the vertebral column. The body is broad and large, its upper and lower surfaces are nearly flat, and present a kidney-shaped outline. The pedicles very strong; the laviince short, thick, and l >road; the inferior intervertebral notches very large, and the spinal foramen large and oval. The spinous process is thick and broad. The transverse processes FifJ. 88.—Lateral view of a lumbar ver tebra. i. The body. 2. The pedicle- 3. The superior intervertebral notch, 4. The inferior intervertebral notch 5. Tlie spinous process. 6. The trans: verse process. 7. The superior arti cular processes. 8. The inferior arti cular processes. 9. The mammilla jirocess. are slender, pointed, and directed ^■ery slightly backwards. Th superior articular processes are concave, and look backwards an inwards ; the inferior convex, looks forwards and outAA-ards. Th superior are much ^^-ider apart than the inferior, and embrace th inferior pair of .the vertebra above. Projecting backA\-ards and up wards from the superior articular process is a convex OA^al tubercl called the raammillary process (metapophysis), and in a well-mark vertebra there is at the base of this a smaller tubercle called th accessory process (anapophysis). The fifth lumbar vertebra differs from the rest in having th body very much bevelled posteriorly, so as to be thick in front an thin behind ; the transverse processes are thick and large, the lows articular processes are wider apart tlian the tipper, and the laniin project into the spinal foramen on each side. General Considerations.—Viewed as a whole, the vertebr column represents two pyramids applied base to base, the superio being formed by all the vertebrae from the second cervical to the las lumbar, the inferior by the sacrum and coccyx. Examined mo attentively, it will be seen to be composed of four irremilar pvramid applied to each other by their smaller extremities and by their bas