791 FALLOPIAN TUBES. The nerves of the uterus all increase in size during pregnancy, and again decrease after parturition. Appendages of the Uterus. The appendages of the uterus are enclosed by the lateral dui^lica- tures of peritoneum called the broad ligaments. They are the Fallopian tuhes and ovaries. The FALLOPIAN TUBES, or oviducts, are 'situated in tlie upper border of the broad ligaments, and are connected with the superior angles of the uterus. They are somewhat trumpet-shaped, being smaller at the uterine than at the free extremity. The narrow inner extremity has been named by Henle the isthvms, and the wider outer half the ampulla. Each tube is about four inches in length. and more or less flexuous in its course. The canal of the Fallopian tube is exceedingly minute ; its inner extremity opens by means of the ostium uterinum into the upper angle of the cavity of the uterus, and the opposite end into the cavity of the ]3eritoneum. The free or expanded extremity of the Fallopian tube presents a double and sometimes a triple series of small processes or fringes wliich surround the margin of the trum- pet or funnel-shaped opening, the ostium abdominale. This fringe- like appendage to the end of the tube has gained for it the appella- tion of the fimbriated extremity (morsus diaboli). A short liga- mentous cord proceeds from the fimbriated extremity to Ije attached to the distal end of the ovary. Structure.—The Fallopian tube is composed of three tunics—an external and serous investment derived from the peritoneum ; a Fig. 488.—Transverse section of Fallopian tube of a nulliparous female, sliowingf three tubes separated by intertubular tissue. I. Serous outer coat. 2. Inter- stitial connective tissue. 3. Muscular coat, cousisting chiefly of circular fibres. 4. Mucous membrane thrown into ir- regular folds. 5, 5. Lumen of tubes. At 6 the mucous membrane has been stripped off in making the section.— From a preparation by Dr. Milroy of Kilwinning. middle or muscular coat, consist- ing of circular (internal) and longitudinal (external) fibres, continuous with those of the uterus ; and an internal or lining mucous mem- l)rane, which is continuous on the one hand witli the mucous mem- brane of the uterus, and at the opposite extremity with the peritoneum.