42 BLOOD-VESSELS. position of a series of ganglia, and from its distribution chiefly to the viscera of the body. It consists of a cord of moderate thickness, which extends from the head to the coccyx, lying by the side of the vertebral column ; of a series of ganglia, some of which are fusiforni and others flattened and multangular ; of short branches of communi- cation from the spinal nerves ; and of jjeripheral Ijranches, which for the most jiart follow the trunks of arteries, and are distributed to the viscera, after uniting with ganglia in tlieir course, or forming smaller ganglia in their distribution. The elementary constituents of the ganglionic nerve are : meduUated nerve liljres of every degree of magnitude from coarse to fine, n'on-niedullated or ganglionic nei-ves, and nerve cells. The medullated nerve fibres are derived from the ■ anterior and posterior roots of the spinal nerves, chiefly from the latter ; enteiing the ganglion, they divide into an ascending and descending fasciculus, which pass upwards and downwards along: the main trunk of the nerve, or jDass oft" with the larger branches • in company with ganglionic nerves. The non-medullated fibres • originate in the multipolar cells of the sympathetic ganglia. In their peripheral terminations the branches of the sympathetic nerve present numerous minute, almost microscopic ganglia, which. are especially remarkable on the carotid arteries, in the pharyngeal! plexus, upon the heart, around the root and in the substance of the lungs, upon the supra-renal capsule, on the lymphatic glands, oni the posterior wall of the urinary bladder, and in the kidneys. In i structure these ganglia are identical with the larger ganglia. BLOOD-VESSELS. The blood is distriljuted throughout the body by means of a series- of tubes, which proceed from the heart, ramify through all the organs - and tissues, and again return to the heart; thus the blood in its- course constantly returns to the centre from whence it Avas sent forth,. and it is this which constitutes the circulation. The tubes which i carry the blood are called blood-vessels ; they are of three kinds— namely, those which convey the blood froui the heart to the tissues,. arteries ; those which run through the tissues and organs, capil- • laries ; and tliose by means of which the blood is returned from the tissues to the heart, veins. The artery proceeding from the leff ventricle of the lieart contiiins- the pure or arterial lilood, which is distributed throughout the entire system, and constitutes -with its returning veins the greater or sys- ■ temic circulation. That which eniiuiates from the right ventricle conveys the impure blood to the lungs ; and with its corresponding: veins establishes the lesser or imlmonary circulation.