258 MUSCLES OF THE TONGUE. the tongue are divided by a fibrous septum, which involves only the inner or medullary jiortion of the muscular mass, but is suffi- ciently complete to prevent anastomosis of the arteries of one side with those of the other. Nerve-supply.—The several layers of muscular fibre which con- stitute the lingualis muscle are chiefly supplied by the hypoglossal nerve, l)ut some filaments of the facial also reach them. The STYLO GLOSSUS arises from the apex of the styloid process and from tlie stylo-maxillary ligament; it divides on the side of the tongue into two parts, one transverse, which passes inwards between the two portions of the hyo-glossus, and is lost among the trans^'erse fibres of the substance of the tongue ; the other longitudinal, which spreads out upon the side of the tongue, and is jirolonged forwards with the inferior lingualis as far as its tip. Relations.—By its external surface with the internal pterygoid muscle, gustatory nerve, parotid gland, sublingual gland, and mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. By its internal surface with the tonsil, superior constrictor of the pharynx, and hyo-glossus. Nerve-supply.—The hypoglossal and facial nerves. The PALATO-GLOSSUS passes between the soft palate and the side of the base of the tongue, forming a prominence of the mucous membrane, which is called the anterior pillar of the fauces. Its tilires are spread out superiorly among the muscular fibres of the palato-pharyngeus, and inferiorly among the fibres of the stylo- glossus npon the side of the tongue. Nerve - supply.—This muscle is supplied by branches from Meckel's ganglion and the pharyngeal plexus ; the motor filaments being ultimately traceable to the facial. Actions.—The genio-hyo-glossus muscle eftects several move- ments of the tongue. When the tongue is steadied and pointed by the other muscles, the posterior fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus would dart it from the mouth, while its anterior fibres would restore it to its former j)osition. The whole length of the muscle acting on the tongue, would render it concave along the middle line, and form a channel for the current of fluid towards the pharynx, as in sucking. The apex of the tongue is directed to the roof of the mouth, and rendered couA^ex from before back- wards by the linguales. The hyo-glossi, by dra\ving do-«Ti the sides of the tongue, render it convex along the middle line. It is drawn upwards at its base by the palato-glossi, and backwards or to either side by the stylo-glossi. The ijalato-glossi muscles, assisted by the uvula, have the power of closing the fauces com- pletely, an action which takes place in deglutition. The lingualis fibres "are mainly brought into play in the production of articulate speech.