447 PLANTAK ARTEKIES. posterior tibial, freciueutly above the origin of the peroneal, and proceeds to the nutrient canal, which it traverses obliquely from above downwards. It is the largest nutrient artery of bone in the body. The muscular branches of the i^osterior tiljial artery are distri- buted to the soleus and deep muscles of the posterior aspect of the leg. One of these branches is deserving of notice, a recurrent branch, which arises from the j)osterior tibial above the origin of the peroneal artery, pierces the soleus, and is distributed on the inner side of the head of the tibia, anastomosing with the inferior internal articular. The communicatiiig branch crosses the back of the tibia, about two inches above its lower end ; it passes beneath the flexor longus hallucis tendon, and unites with the communicating branch of the peroneal. The internal calcanean branches, three or four in number, proceed from the posterior tibial artery immediately before its divi- sion ; they are distributed to the integument, to the inner side of the OS calcis, and to the muscles whicli arise from its inner tuber- osity ; and anastomose with the external calcanean branches of the posterior peroneal, and with all the neighbour- ing arteries. forming around the heel a net- Avork of inosculations, rete calcaiieum. PLANTAR AR- TERIES. The internal plan- tar artery proceeds from the bifurcation of the posterior tibial at the inner malleolus, and passes along the inner Ijorder of the foot beneath the ab- ductor hallucis, sup- ])lying the inner bor- der of the foot and great toe, and anasto- mosing with the digi- tal branches distri- Via. 272.—Arteries of the sole of the foot, thefirstand part of the second layer of mus- cles having been removed. I. Under and posterior part of the OS calcis ; to which the origins of the first layer of muscles remain attached. 2. Flexor ac- cessorivis. 3. Long flexor tendons. 4. Tendon of the peroneus longus. 5. Termination of the poste- rior tibial artery. 6. In- ternal plantar. 7. External plantar artery. 8. The plantar arch giving off four digital branches, which pass forwards on the inter- ossei muscles. Three of these arteries are seen dividing, near the heads of the metatarsal bones, into collateral branches for ad- joining toes. buted to the lattei-, The external plantar artery, mucli larger than the internal, passes oblupiely outwards between the first and second layer of the plantar muscles to the fourth metatarsal space. It then turns trans- versely inwards between the second and third layer, to the first metatarsal space, where it inosculates with the dorsalis pedis The