ERECTOR SPINiE. * 275 Erector Spinaj. Sacro-lumbalis, Lougissimus dorsi, Spinalis clorsi. Musciilus accessorius, Transversalis cervicis, Cervicalis ascendens. Traclielo-mastoid, The ERECTOR SPINJE arises from tlie posterior third of the crest of the ilium, the oblique sacro-iliac ligament, articular and spinous : tubercles of the sacrum, spinous processes and transverse processes of ■ the lumbar vertebrae ; the external portion being fleshy, the internal I tendinous. The tendinous portion is broad and flat, and gives origin I by its deep surface to a considerable part of tlie muscular fibres. In the lumbar region, the muscle proceeding from this extensiA'e origin is a broad and thick musculo-tendinous mass, on the surface of which, op23osite the last lib, a line of separation is apparent, tlie I outer portion, about one-third, l)eing the sacro-lumbalis, the inner ] two-thirds the longissimus dorsi. The sacro-lumbalis (ilio-costalis) ascends upon the chest inter- nally to the angles of the ribs, and is inserted by separate slips, the four upper tendinous, the two lower fleshy, into the angles of the six lower ribs. If this muscle be tiu'ued a little outwards, a number of tendinous : slips will be seen which take their origin from the upper border of the ribs near their angles, and terminate in muscular fasciculi, which l)rolong the sacro-lumbalis to the upper part of the chest. This is the musculus accessorius ad sacro-lumbalem ; it arises from the six lower ribs, and is inserted by separate tendons into the angles of the six upper ribs and transA^erse ju'ocess of the seventh cerAdcal j vertebra. The longissimus dorsi is inserted by two series of tendons, in- ternal and external; the internal being implanted into the accessory and transverse processes of all the lumbar, and transverse processes of all the dorsal vertebrae ; the external into the transverse processes I of the luinbar vertebrae, and all the ribs, excepting the first, be- I tween their tubercles and angles. ' I _ The spinalis dorsi is situated at the inner side of the lono-i.s- I simus dorsi, and arises from the spinous processes of the two uiiper ; lumbar and two lower dorsal vertebra3; it is inserted into the spinous processes of tlie upper dorsal vertebrae froni the second to the sixth or eighth. It also receives several fasciculi from the longissimus I dorsi and semi-spinalis dorsi. The two muscles form an ellipse I which einliraces the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrte. ' ' The lumbar fascia, with the spinal column, aponeurosis of the ' latissimus dorsi, and ribs, forms a complete osseo-aponeurotic sheath : tor the erector spinae. I The CERVICALIS ASCENDENS vel descendens is the continua- i