454 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. ing round the crus cerebri ; it conveys tlie blood from the anterior cerebral veins, deep Sylvian vein, and inferior striate veins. The veins of Galen also receive branches from the corpora quadrigeruina, pineal body and posterior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The cerebellar veins are disposed, like those of the cerebrum, on the surface of tlie lobes of the cerebellum ; they are situated, some on the superior, some on the inferior surface, while otliers occupy the borders of the organ. Those in the middle line of the uppei' surface terminate in tlie veins of Galen and straight sinus ; those of the under surface in the lateral and occipital sinuses. SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. The sinuses of the dura mater are irregular channels formed by the sj)litting of the layers of that membrane, and lined on their inner surface by a continuation of the internal coat of the veins. They are seventeen in number, six pairs and five single ones, and are as follows :— (Superior longitudinal sinus, Inferior longitudinal sinus, Straight sinus. Circular, Transverse. ' Two occipital sinuses, Two lateral sinuses, ,,o,-,.-. Two cavernous, felX pairs. -V rn • i 1 ^ 1 wo superior j)etrosal. Two inferior petrosal, ^ Two splieiio-parietal. The superior longitudinal sinus is situated in the attached margin of the falx cerebri, and extends along the middle line of the arch of the skull, from the foramen csecuni in the frontal, to the inner protuberance of the occipital bone. In the young child it receives a small vein from the nose which reaches it by jjassing through the foramen caecum, and not unfrequeiitly this remains permanent in the adult. It is triangular in form, small in front, and increases gradually in size as it passes backwards ; it receives the superior cerebral veins, numerous small veins from tlie diploi', and near the posterior extremity of the sagittal suture the jxtrietal veins from the pericranium and scalp. Examined in its interioi', it l^resents numerous transverse fibi'ous bands, the chordce JVillisii, which are stretched across its inferior angle ; and some small white granular masses, the glandulce Pacchioni; the oblique openings of the cerebral veins, with their valve-like margin, are also seen on the walls of the sinus. The termination of the superior longitudinal sinus forms a con- siderable dilatation, with which the straight sinus communicates in front, the lateral sinuses on each side, and the occipital sinuses below. This dilatation is generally situated to the right of the