687 LUNGS. thoracic side tliey are convex, and correspond with the form of tlie cavity of the chest; internally they are concave, to receive the con- vexity of the heart. Superiorly they terminate in a tapering cone, which extends above the level of the first rib into the root of the neck, and inferiorly they are broad and concave, and rest on the con- vex surface of the diaphragm. Theii' posterior border is rounded, broad, and long; the anterior, sharp, short, and marked by one or two deep fissures ; and the inferior border which surrounds the base is also sharp. The colour of the lungs is pinkish-grey, mottled, and variously marked with black. The surface is figured with irregularly polyhedral outlines, which represent the lobules of the organ, and the area of each of these polyhedral spaces is crossed by lighter lines representing smaller lobules. The weight of the lungs is about forty- two ounces, the right lung being twenty-two ounces and the left twenty ; the ratio to the weight of the body is as i to 37 in the male and I to 42 in the female. Each lung is divided into two lobes by a long and deep fissure, called the great fissure, which extends from the posteidor surface of the upper part of the organ downwards, and forwards to near the anterior angle of its base. In the right lung the upper lobe is sub- divided by a second fissure, which extends obliquely forward from the middle of the preceding to the anterior border of the organ, and marks oft' a small triangular lobe. The left lung presents a deep notch in its anterior border, at a point corresponding with the apex of the heart. The right lung is larger than the left, in consequence of the inclination of the heart to the left side. It is also shorter, from the gi'eat convexity of the liver, which presses the diaphragm upwards on the right side of the chest, considerably above the level of the left, and it has three lobes. The left lung is smaller, has only two lobes, but is longer than the right. The healthy lung is free at all parts of its surface, excepting along the lower two-thirds of the middle of its inner surface, where it is fixed, above by the root and below by a double layer of pleura called ligamentum latum pulmonis. The root is formed by the pulmonary artery, pulmonary veins, and divisions of the bronchus, together witli the bronchial vessels, lymphatic vessels and glands, and pul- monary plexuses of nerves. The groove on the surface of the lung where the vessels enter its substance is the hilum pulmonis, and the position of the large vessels in the root of the lung, as follows : from before, backwards, they are placed in a similar order on botii sides, viz. :— Pulmonary veins. Pulmonary artery. Bronchus. From above, downwards, the relative position of these structures 13 essentially the same on both sides, but on the right side there IS an additional bronchus (eparterial), which is placed above the