227 PART IV. MYOLOGY. In this section will be described the arrangement, attachments, and actions of tlie voluntary muscles, and the disposition of the fascia) sujiporting or connected with them. MUSCLES present various modifications in the arrangement of their fibres in relation to their tendinous structure. Sometimes they are longitudinal, and terminate at each extremity in tendon, the entire muscle being fusiform in shape ; in other situations they are disposed like the rays of a fan, converging to a tendinous jDoint, as the teuiporal, pectoral, glutei, &c., and constitute a radiate muscle. Again, they are penniform, converging like the barl)s of a feather to one side of a tendon, which runs the whole length of the muscle, as in the peronei; or hipenniform, converging to both sides of the tendon. In other muscles the fibres pass obliquely from the surface of a tendinous expansion spread out on one side, to that of another extended on the opposite side, as in tlie semi-membranosus ; or, they are composed of ])ennil'orm or bipenniform fasciculi, as in tlie deltoid, and constitute a compound muscle. In the broad muscle the tendon is s]iread out so as to form an expansion, called apoimi7-osis. The muscles are all symmetrical, and, with tlie exceptic^n of the s[)hincters and diaphragm, are arranged in pairs. It is calcidated that they number about 240 pairs, and that the weight of the total mass of muscle is about 63 lbs. in a man whose total body-weight is 150 lbs. The nomenclature of muscles is generally derived from some prominent character which the muscle presents ; thus, some are named from their situation, as the tibialis, peroneus, brachialis, temporal ; others from their use, as the flexors, extensors, abductors, levators, tensors, sphincters, &c. Some again from their form, as the trapezius, triangularis, deltoid, rhomboid, scalene, orbicidaris, «S:c. ; and others from their direction, as the rectus, obliquus, trans- versalis, «S:c. Certain muscles have received names expressive of their attachments, as the sterno-mastoid, sterno-hyoid, &c. ; and others, of their divisions, as the biceps, triceps, digastricus, com- plexus, &c.