FASCIyE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 343 In relation to tlie axis of the hand, the four dorsal interossei are abductors, the three palmar adductors. It will therefore be seen that each finger is provided with its proper adductor and abductor, two flexors, and (with the exception of the middle and ring finger) two extensors. The thumb has, moreover, a flexor (opponens) and extensor of the metacarpal bone ; and the little finger a flexor of the metacarpal bone (opponens) without an extensor. The palmaris brevis draws together the skin on the ulnar margin of the hand, and so increases the hypothenar eminence and deepens the hollow of the hand. MUSCLES AND FASCIAE OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. FASCI/E OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. The superficial fascia of the thigh consists of two layers, the superficial or fatty, and the deep or membranous. The first is continuous ■with that of the abdomen, and contains more or less fat, according to the subject. Between the two layers are contained the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and superficial external j)udic branches of the femoral artery and vein ; also the femoral and inguinal lymphatic glands and the vessels connected with them, the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the internal, middle, and external cutaneous nerves. The deep or membranous layer is thin but strong, and is attached to the fascia lata a short distance below Poupart's ligament. It is also closely connected to the fascia lata around the margin of the saphenous opening, which it closes, and here it is more dense than elsewhere, and being pierced by openings for the superficial vessels before alluded to, it is called the cribriform fascia, which forms one of the ( coverings of femoral hernia. It becomes incorporated with the I fascia lata as it descends, and at about six inches below the groin (becomes inseparably united with it. The deep fascia of the thigh is named, from its great extent, the fascia lata ; it is thick and strong upon the outer side of the limb, ; and thinner on its inner and posterior aspect. That portion of the i deep fascia which invests the gluteus maximus is very thin, but that y which covers in the gluteus medius is excessively thick, and gives origin, by its inner surface, to the superficial fibres of that muscle. Tl^e fascia lata is attached superiorly to Poupart's ligament, the crest of the ilium, sacrum, coccyx, tuberosity of the ischium, ramus of the |) ischium and pubes, hody of the pubes, and pectineal line ; it has also ! a deep attachment (ligamentum iliacum) to the anterior border of I the ilium, tendon of origin of the rectus muscle, and border of the acetabulum. It forms sheaths for the muscles of the thigh and I femoral vessels, and is connected with the linea aspera hj means of two intermuscular septa, external and internal; the former exteudnig from the insertion of the gluteus maximus to the external