135 RIBS AND COSTAL CARTILAGES. ment of the scalenus medius nmscle. There is no angle, and no groove on the under side. Beyond the tubercle is a narrow con- stricted neck ; and at the extremity, a head, presenting a single ar- ticular surface. The second rib, in some of its characters, resembles the first, being flattened from above do^vnwa^ds, and only slightly t^visted ; it presents near the middle a rough surface for the attachment of the second and third di"itations of the ser- Fig. 125.—First rib of left side. I. Scalene tubercle. n+ nrr-r.n^ 2. Groovc for subclaviaii vein. 3. Groove for sub- laxus magnuh. clavian artery. 4. Head. 5. Neck. 6. Articular The tenth, rib has a portion of tubercle. 7. Rough portion of tubercle, single articular surface 8. Anterior end. on its head. The eleventh and twelfth have each a single articular surface on the head, no neck or tubercle, and are pointed at the free extremity. The eleventh has a slight ridge, representing the angle, and a shallow groove on the lower border ; the twelfth has neither. Development.—The ribs are developed by three centres ; one for the central part, one for the head, and one for the tubercle. The last two liave no centre for the tnbercle. Ossification commences in the body somewhat before its appearance in the vertebrae ; the epi- physeal centres for the head and tubercle appear between sixteen and twenty, and are consolidated with the rest of the bone at twenty- five. Articulations.—Each rib articulates with tAvo vertebrae and one costal cartilage, with the exception of the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, which articulate each with a, single vertebra only. Attachment of Muscles.—Intercostal muscles, scalenus anticus, medius, and jiosticus, pectoralis minor, serratus magnxis, obliquus externus, latissimus dorsi, quadratus lumborum, serratus i^osticus superior, serratus posticus inferior, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi cervicalis ascendens, levatores costarum, transversalis, and dia- phragm. COSTAL CARTILAGES.—The costal cartilages serve to prolong the ribs foi-ward to the anterior part of the chest, and contribute mainly to the elasticity of the thorax. They are broad at their attachment with the ribs, and taper slightly towards the sternal end ; tliev diminish gradually in breadth from the first to the last ; in length they increase from the first to the seventh, and then decrease to the last. The cartilages of the first two ribs are horizontal in direc- tion ; the rest incline more and more upwards. In advanced age