434 EXTEENAL ILIAC ARTERY. The superficial branch passes backwards between the gluteus maxiinus and medius, and is distributed to the gluteus maximus and to the integument of the gluteal and sacral regions. The deep superior branch passes forwards along the middle curved line of the ilium, between the gluteus medius and minimus to the anterior superior spinous process, where it inosculates witli the superficial circumflex iliac and external circumflex of the femoral. There are fret^uently two arteries occupying the place of this branch. The deep inferior branches, two or three in number, cross the gluteus minimus obliquely to the trochanter major, where they in- osculate with branches of the external circumflex and ischiatic arteries, and send branches through the gluteus minimus to supply the capsule of the hip-joint. The EXTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY of- each side passes obliquely downwards along the inner border of the psoas muscle, from opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis to the femoral arch, where it becomes the femoral artery. Plan of the Relations of the External Iliac Artery. In Front. Peritoneum, intestines, and iliac fascia, Lymphatics, Spermatic vessels, Genito-crural nerve, Circumflex iliac vein. Inner Side. I Outer Side. External iliac vein, txiernai uiac. Psoas magnus, Vas deferens, I Iliac fascia. Behind. External iliac vein, , Psoas magnus. Branches.—Besides several small twigs which supply the lym- phatic glands and psoas muscle, the external iliac gives ott" two branches, the Deep epigastric, Deep circumflex iliac. The DEEP EPIGASTRIC ARTERY arises from the front of the external iliac near Poupart's ligament; and passing inwards between the peritoneum and transversalis fascia, ascends obliquely to the sheath of the rectus. It enters that sheath near its loAver third, passes upwards behind the rectus muscle, to which it is distributed, and, in the substance of that muscle, inosculates, near the ensiform cartilage, with the termination (superior epigastric) of the internal mammary arter}^ It lies internally to the internal alxlominal ring and immediately above the femoral ring, and is crossed near its origin by the vas deferens in the male, and the round ligament in the female.