720 PHARYNX. by their alveolus, but communicating through minute osseous canals with the mucous membrane of the mouth immediately beliind tlie corresponding deciduous teeth. The periods of appearance of the teeth are very irregular; it i> necessary, therefore, to have recourse to au average, which may Im- stated in a tabular form as follows, the teeth of the lower jaw pic- ceding those of the upper l)y a short interval. SUCCESSION OF TEETH. I. Temporary Teeth. Molar 2 Molar I Canine Incisors Canine Molar I Molar 2 Months. 24 12 18 g.7.7.9 18 12 24 2. Permanent Teeth. m u c3 « u <& Molar I Premolar 2 Premolar i 03 Incisors Canine Premolar i Premolar 2 H u ■a 0 Molar 2 m c3 "o Years. 17-21 12-13 6 10 9 II-I2 8.7.7.8 11-12 9 10 6 12-13 17-21 PHARYNX. The 2)haryiix (cfydpvy^, the throat) is a musculo-membranous sa about four and a half inches in length, situated on the cevvi portion of the vertebral column, and extending from the base 0 the skull to a point corresponding with the cricoid cartilage i front and the upper border of the sixth cervical vertebra behind It is widest opposite the hyoid bone, and narrowest where it termi nates in the oesophagus. It is comiDosed of mucous meinbran" muscles, and a strong aponeurosis ; and communicates in front wit the cavity of the nose, mouth, and larynx. Above, it is attache partly by muscle, but chiefly by aponeurosis, to the basilar proc" of the occipital bone and petrous j)ortion of the temporal bone ; an below, it is continuous with the oesophagus. It is loosely connecte by areolar tissue with the prevertebral fascia behind, and with th styloid process and muscles and the carotid sheath 011 each sideJ Its central attachment above is by means of a strong band having its origin from the pharyngeal tubercle on the occipital bone, ana l^assing down between the recti antici muscles to terminate in llie pharyngeal aponeurosis ; this band has been termed by Cleland the cranio-2'>haryngeal ligament. _ The pharyngeal aponeurosis is a strong sheet of fascia placed between the mucous membrane and muscles of the pharynx ; it is