623 CORNEA. examined from tlie exterior, its vertical diameter is seen to be about one-sixteentli shorter than its transverse, in consequence of the over- lapping above and below of the margin of the sclerotic ; on the in- terior its outline is circular. It is continuous with the sclerotic, and is connected \vith the iris, choroid, and ciliary processes. The thickness of the cornea is about one millimetre ; it is generally the same throughout, except at the perijihery, where it becomes a little thinner. Structure.—The cornea is divisible into four layers ; these are, I. Conjunctival epithelium ; 2. Anterior limiting layer ; 3. Cornea propria ; and 4. Membrane of Descemet or Demours. The first of these has been already described. The anterior limiting layer (anterior elastic lamina of Bowman) is a transparent and apparently structureless layer, having an average thickness of from ijo^oo T2W ^^^^^^ > devoid of laminae and corneal corpuscles, but otherwise is indistinguishable from the next layer, with which it is connected by fine threads running into the sub- stance of the latter. The cornea propria forms the bulk of the cornea. It consists of numerous layers of delicate transparent fibres, continuous externally mth those of the opaque sclerotic ; the fibres are collected into bundles, separated from each other by a ground substance similar to that in other connective tissues. Between the strata nucleated cells are found, which freely anasto- mose with each other, and appear to be stellate in sections made parallel to the surface of the cornea. The cells lie in spaces in the ground substance, which correspond to them accurately in size and shape. The spaces can be easily made out by painting the tissue with nitrate of silver ; they are generally held to be lymph chamiels. The membrane of Descemet or Demours forms the j)osterior layer of the cornea, and lines the chamber of the aqueous humour ; it con- sists of an elastic and an epithelial layei'. The elastic layer (jjosterior elastic lamina of Bowman) is about -006 mm. in thickness ; it is highly elastic, and when partially de- tached tends to curl up. The epithelium consists of a single layer of irregularly shaped nucleated cells. At the edges, the membrane of Descemet breaks up into threads, some of which are continued on to the iris to form the ligamentum pectina- tum, others terminate in the inner wall of the canal of Schlemm, and some few are connected with the ciliary muscle. The pro- cesses which pass to the iris are covered by a single layer of cells of the same kind as those lining the membrane of Descemet, but, as the cells do not pass over the intervals between ■"■'"^''"T'nnn m F'o. 357-—A vertical sec- tion of the cornea of an adult, showing the layers of which it is composed.