TEMPORO-MAXILLAKY AKTICULATION. of tlie external pterygoid miiscle ; internally the ligament is in I'elation with the internal pterygoid muscle. The middle meningeal artery in its njiward conise to the foramen Fia. 156.—Internul view of the articulation of the lower jaw. i. Section through the petrous portion of the temporal bone and spinous j)iocess of the sphenoid. 2. Internal .-lu-face of the ramus and body of the lower j;iw. 3. Capsular ligament. 4. Long in- ternal lateral ligament. 5. A small interval at its insertion througli which the mylo- hyoidean nerve passes. 6. Stylo-maxillary ligament, a process of the deep cervical fascia. spinosum, and the inferior dental nerve as it passes downwards to tlie dental canal, run along the outer side of this ligament. The capsular ligament consists of numerous irregular ligament- ous fih]-es, which pass from the edge of the glenoid cavity to the neck of the lower jaw, and surround the articulation. The capsule is thickest where it receives the acces- sory fil)res called external and short internal lateral ligaments ; it has inserted into it anteriorly a few fi))res of the external pterygoid muscle. The interarticular fibro-carti- lage is a thin oval plate, thicker at tlte edges tlian in the centre, ]tlaced horizontally between the liead of the condyle of the lower jaw and the glenoid cavity. Its upper surface is, from befoi'e Ivack- wards, concaveanterioi'lyandslightly convex posteriorly, the former por- tion fitting the eminentia articularis, and tlie latter the glenoid cavity ; its under surface is concave to receive the convex condyle. It is connected by its outer border with the external lateral ligament,and receivesin front some fibres of insertion of the external pterygoid muscle, the joint into two cavities, one being above, the other cartilage ; l)ut it is occasionally incomplete in the centre. Tlie synovial membranes are situated, one al)ove, below tlie fil)ro-cariilage, the former being tlie larger of the When the filjro-cartilage is perforated, the synovial coiiiiiiunicate. Besides the lowei Fin. 157.-—In this sketch a.section h.as been made through the joint to show the position of the interarticular fibrn-cirtilage, and ttic manner of its adaptation to tlie articulating surfaces, i. Glenoid fossa. 2. Em- inentia articularis. 3. Interaiticu- lar fibrn-cavtilage. 4. Suiierior syno- vial cavity. 5. Inferior synovial cavity. 6. An interarticular fibro- cartilage, removed from the joint, in order to show its oval and concave lorni ; it is seen from below. It divides lielow, the the othei' two. membranes jaw, there are several other joints provided