INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 119 superior constrictor muscle and pterygo-niaxillary ligament have their attachment. Immediately above the ridge, and by the side of the symphysis, is a smooth concave surface, which corresponds with the sublingual gland ; and below the ridge, and more externally, a deeper fossa for the submaxillary gland. The superior border of the body of the bone is the alveolar process, furnished in the adult with alveoli for sixteen teeth. The inferior border or base is rounded and smooth ; thick and everted in front to form the chin, and thinner behind where it merges into the angle of the bone. The ramus is a strong square-shaped process, differing in direction at various periods of life ; thus, in the foetus and infant, it is almost parallel with the body ; in youth it is oblique, and gradually ap- proaches tlie vertical direction until manhood ; in old age, after the loss of the teeth, it again declines, and assumes the oblique direction. On its external surface it is rough, for the attachment^ of the masseter muscle ; and at the junction of its posterior border with the body of the bone it has a rough tuberosity, the angle of the lower jaw, which gives attachment by its inner margin to the stylo- maxillary ligament. The upper extremity of the ramus presents two processes, sepa- rated by a concaA^e sweep, the sigmoid notch. The anterior is the coronoid process; it is sharp and pointed, and gives attachment to the temporal muscle. The posterior process is the condyle, which is flattened from before backwards, oblique in direction, and smooth on its upper surface, to articulate with the glenoid cavity of the temjDoral bone. The constriction around the base of the condyle is its nech, into the external aspect of which is attached the external lateral ligament. A fossa on the anterior part of the neck of the condyle gives attachment to the external pterygoid muscle. The sigmoid notch is crossed by the masseteric artery and nerve. The internal surface of the ramus is marked near its centre by a large oblique foramen, the inferior dental, for the entrance of the inferior dental artery and nerve into the dental canal. Bounding this opening is a sharp margin (lingiila mandibiolaris), to which is attached the long internal lateral ligament, and passing downwards from the opening a narrow groove which lodges the mylo-hyoid vessels and nerve. To the uneven surface above and in front of the inferior dental foramen is attached the' temiDoral muscle, and to the rough internal surface of the angle, the internal pterygoid. Development.—In its earliest condition the inferior maxilla consists of fibrous tissue investing a cartilaginous rod called the Curtilage of Meckel, formed in first post-oral or mandibular arch. Ossific deposit takes place (probably by several centres which fuse early), mainly in fibrous tissue, but the portion at the symphysis is formed Ijy direct ossification of the Cartilage of Meckel, and the condyle and back part of the ramus, including the angle, are formed from plates of cartilage unconnected with Meckel's cartilage. The lower jaw is the earliest of the bones of the skeleton to exhibit