68 APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. ]jai't or core. Tlie latter ai)peai's to be formed of modified coii- iiectiye tissue; the nerve fibi'es lose their medxdlaiy sheatli befoie entering it, they then run a con\-o]uted course (many of them be- coming varicose), and terminate in bulljous enlargements. APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. The appendages of the skin are the nails, hairs, sebaceous glands, and sweat glands and ducts. The NAILS are horny appendages of the skin, identical in forma- tion with the epidermis, of which they are a part. A nail is convex on its external surface, concave within, and im})lanted by means of a thin margin or root in a fold of the derma, which is "nearly two lines in depth, and acts the part of a follicle to the nail. At the bottom of the groove of the follicle are a number of filiform papillte, which produce the margin of the root, and, by a successive foj'ma- tion of new cells, push the nail onwards in its growth. The concave surface of the nail is in contact with the derma, and the latter forms the matrix of tlie nail, and is covered by papillse, which perform the double office of retaining the nail in its place, and gi^^ng it in- creased thickness b}^ the aduition of newly-formed cells to its under surface. It is this constant change occurring in the under surface of the nail, co-operating M'ith the continual formation taking place along the margin of the root, which ensures the gi'owth of the nail in the proj)er direction. The nail derives a peculiarity of ajjpear- ance from the disposition and form of the papillae of the matrix. Thus, beneath the root, and for a short distance ouAvards towai-ds its middle, the derma is covered l)y papillae which are more minute, and consequently less vascular than the j)apillae somewhat farther on. This patch of papillaj is bounded by a semilunar line, and that part of the nail covering it being lighter in colour than the rest, has been termed lunula. Beyond the lunula the papillae are raised into longitudinal pleats, which are exceedingly vascular, and give a deeper tint of redness to the nail. These pleat-like papillaj of the derma are well calculated by their form to offer an extensive surface both for the adhesion and formation of the nail. It is the deposit of horny laminas on the surface of these folds that gives rise to the ribbed appearance of the nail. The papillary suInstance of the derma which produces the nail is continuous around the circumference of the attached part of that organ with the derma of tlie surrounding skin, and the horny structure of the nail is consequently continuous with that of the epidermis. HAIRS are hoi ny ajipendages of the sldn, produced by the invo- lution and subsequent evolution of the epidermis ; the involution constituting the follicle in which the hair is enclosed, and the evolu- tion the shaft of the hair. Hairs vary much in size and length in dif- ferent parts of the body ; in some they are so short as not to a]ipear beyond the follicle ; in others they grow to a gi-eat length, as on the