UHINARY BLADDER. 768 by the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia. It i.s bouuclefl l,eln,„l vas.^'.f''''r'''?^ l'«"toue;uu and at each d y ;St te^^^^^^^^^^^ to a point at tlie base o^" t i ?! fW? 1 !i • ^"I'^overed by peritoneum, and for this rea'^oi, operation tor puncture of the bladder Vessels and Nerves.-The ari.rm' of the urinary bladder are the mperzor veszcal, three or four small branches which proceed from Ficj. 472. — Side, view of the vis- cera of the male pelvis, ill situ. The right side of the pelvis lias been removed by a vertical section made through the OS pubis near the symphysis; and another through the middle of the sacrum, i. Di- vided surface of the OS pubis. 2. Divided surface, of the sacrum. 3. Body of the bladder. 4. Its superior fundus; from the apex is seen passing up- wards tiie nra- chus. 5. E of the bladder. 6. Ureter. 7. Neck of the bladder. 8, 8. Pelvic fascia; the fibres immediately above 7, are given off from the pelvic fascia, and represent the anterior ligaments of the bladder. 9. Prostate gland. 10. Membranous portion of the uretlira. 11. Triangular lisrament. 12. One of Cowper's glands lying beneath t)ie membranous portion of the urethra. 13. Bulb of corpus spongiosum. 14. Body of corpus spongiosum. 15. Right erus penis. 16. Upper part of first portion of the rectum. 17. Recto-vesical fold of peritoneum. 18. Second portion of rectum. 19. Right vesicula seminalis. 20. Vas deferens. 21. The rectum covered by the descending layer of the pelvic fascia, just as it is making its bend backwards to constitute the third portion. 22. Part of the levator ani muscle investing the lower p:u-t of the rectum. 23. External sphincter ani. 24. Interval between Colles' fascia and the anterior layer of the triangular ligament; they are seen to be continuous beneath the figure. the commencement of the hypogastric artery, previously to its com- ]ilete obliteration ; an inferior vesical, from the internal iliac. The latter is distributed to the base of the bladder, vesicular seminales, and prostate gland. The veins are numerous and of large size, and form a plexus around the neck and at the base of tlie bladder; the plexus communicates with the prostatic plexus and hfeinorrhoidal veins. The nerves of the bladder are derived from the inferior hypogastric plexuses and their communications with the third and fourth sacral nerves. They form a gangliated plexus on the blood- vessels, and also form a network under the epithelium.