FIBULA. IS completed by tlie union of the uppei- ei)ii)hysis about ty-tiftli year. Two additional centres ai-e sometimes found femur ; the centre for the head of the bone appears either in the mntli month or soon after l)irtli, and that for the lower extremity Ouring tlie second year ; the lattei' is tlie first to join the diaphysis iJie lowei- epipliysis joins the shaft about the twentieth year, and tlie Ijone i i-.^-. -i i - ^i • „ . _ ^ > the twenty ^ in the tibia, one"'for the tubercle, tlie otiier^ fortiie'intelm^^ leohis. Articulations.—With three bones : femur, filnila, and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To te^iby the internal tuberosity to the semi-membranosus ; by the external tuberosity, til.ialis anticus and extensor longus digitoi'um ; l)y the tubercle, ligamentum patella); by the external surface of the shaft, tilnalis anticus ; l>y the posterior surface, popliteus, soleus, tlexoi- longus digitorum, and tibialis ]>os- ticus ; and l)y the internal surface to the sartoriiis, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus. FIBULA. The fibula {ivepovr}, a brooch, from its I'esemblance, in conjunction with the tibia, to the pin of an ancient l)i'ooch) is tlie outer and smaller bone of the leg; it is long and slender in figure, prismoid in shape, and, like other long bones, divisiWe into a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity or head is thick and large, and depressed at the upi)er part by a concave surface, which articulates with the external tuberosity of the tibia. Externally to this surface is a thick and rough prominence, terminated behind by a styloid process for the attachment of the long external lateral ligament of the knee- joint, and for the insertion of tlie tendon of the biceps. The lower extremity is flattened fi'om without inwards, and prolonged downwards beyond the articular surface of the tibia, forming the external malleolus. Its external side presents a rough and triangular surface, which is subcutaneous. On the internal sur- face is a smooth triangular facet to articulate with the astragalus, and a rough depression for the insertion of the interosseous ligament. Beliind the articular surface and l)etween it and the tip of the mal- leolus is a deej) fossa which lodges the posterior slip of the external lateral ligament. The anterior border is thin and sharp, the posterior broad and grooved for the tendons of the peronei muscles. The shaft of the fibula is prismoid, and jDresents three surfaces ; external, internal, and posterior ; and three borders. The external surface is the broadest of the three; it commences on the anterior part of the bone above, and curves around it so as to terminate on its posterior side below. This surface is completely occupied by the two peronei muscles. The internal surface commences on the side of the superior articular surface, and terminates below by narrowing to a ridge which is continuous with the anterior border of the mal- leolus. It ivS marked along its middle by the interosseous ridge, which