ISPITHELItJM. 16 of epitlielium, and generally has tlie character of small granular spheroidal cells. In the pelvis of the kidney, nreter, urinary hladder, and urethra, however, the transitional e))itheliuni is ])eculiar, con- sisting of three or four layers of cells. The su]-face cells are smooth on their upper surface, but hollowed underneath into i)its which receive the rounded ends of pear-slia])ed cells situated beneath them ; between the narrow necks of the pear-shaped cells there arc smaller cells, rounded or ii'regular in shape. 5. Ciliated Epithelium is chai'acterised by the presence of minute conical vibratile filaments or cilia mounted on the broad ends of columnar cells, or upon the free surface of those of the si^heroidal kind. The cilia are in constant action, and produce a wave-like motion, which carries the secretions in contact with them towards the outlet of the organ in which they exist. They have an average measurement in the human trachea of to ^^oa of an inch. Ciliated eiuthelium is found (i) in the mucous Fig 14.—Cells of the columnar ciliated epi- thelium of the nose, magnified 310 times. membrane of the lower part of the nasal cavities and the adjoining accessory cavities ; (2) in the nasal duct and lachrymal sac ; (3) the Eustachian tube and cavity of the tympanum ; (4) the upper part of the pharynx and upper surface of the soft jjalate ; (5) the larynx (excepting over the true vocal cords), trachea, bronchi, and bronchial tubes to their smallest branches; (6) the uterus and its glands, and the entire length of the Fallopian tubes ; (7) the vasa efferentia and coni vasculosi of the testicle ; (8) some part of the ventricles of the brain, and the whole length of the central canal of the s]iinal cord ; (9) the ducts of the lingual and pharyngeal glands ; (10) in the embryo, lining the a'sophagus, over the whole pharynx and jiart of the mucous membrane of the stomach. Ciliated cells possess an intercellular and intcrnuclear network. Fig 15.—Various forms of cili.itcd ei)ithulial cells, from the trachea of a cat.