l62 FEMUR. llie lower extremity oi' tliu feimii' is l)iuad and ])orou8, and divided l)y a sniootli diqueKsion in fionl,, and by a large fossa (inter- condylai' fossa) behind, into two condyles. The external condyle is tlie l^'oadest and most proniinenf, the internal the nari'owest and hjiigest; the difference in length dej)end- ing on the obliquity of the femur, in conserjuence of tlie se])aration of the two bones at their ujiper extreinity l)y the l)j'eadth of tlie l»elvis. Tlie difference in the length of the condyles has been ascer- tained to amount to about eight millimetres, this" being the average of a hundred observations (H. E. CJlai-k). The external condyle is marked on its outer side by a pronunent tubei-osity, which gives attachment to the external lateral % ligament ; and immediately beneath this is a fossa which lodges the tendon of origin of the popliteus. By the internal surface it gives attachment to the antericn- ci'ucial ligament of the knee-joint ; and by lioi' part, to the the its u])per and externa] head and ])]antaris, dyle ])i'ojects gastrocnemius Fu;. 141.—Uiagvaiii of under surface of condyles of femur. of The internal con- on its inner side into a tuberosity, to which is attached the internal lateral ligament; above this tuberosity, at the extremity of the internal supra-condylar i-idge, is a tul)ercle for the insertion of the tendon of the adductor magnus ; and above the posterior surface of the condyle, a depression from Avliich the internal head of the gastrocnemius arises. The outer side of the internal condyle is rough and concave, for the attachment of the ])ostei'ior crucial ligament. The lower articular surface of the femur is divisiljle into three ])arts, the two condylar surfaces, and i\vii)atellar surface ; thelatterismarked oft" from the two former by shallow de])ressions I'unning fi'om the free margins of the ai'ticulation into the iipper ])art of the intercoiidylar notch. In addition to the true condylar surface, the internal condyle has on its anterior face a small oblique surface, interposed between the condylar and patellar surfaces. The patellar or trochlear surface is the anterior jiart of the articular surface; its outer side extends higher up than its inner, and terminates l)y a nioi-e salient edge. Development.—By five centres ; one for the shaft, one for each exti'emitv, and one for each trochanter. The femur is the first of the long bones to show signs of ossification ; ossific matter is found immediately after the maxillaj and before the termination of the second month of embryonic life. The secondary deposits take place in the following order : in the condylar extremity diiring the last month of fcetal life ; in the head towards the end of the first year ; in the greater trochanter between the third and fourth year ; in the