CONNECTIVE TISSUE. 14 woven, so as to form a membranous slieet, as in fasciae and slieatlis of muscles. In tlie fascicular form white fibres exist almost exclusively ; in the membranous form there is a slight admixture of yellow elastic fibres. When a tendon is treated with acetic acid, the white fibi-es of which it is composed swell up and become transparent; there are then brought into view chains of ol)long flat- tened cells lying Ijetween the tissue ljundles ; these are nucleated, the nuclei of pairs of adjoining cells lying side by side. By the use of reagents it can be shown that these cells lie in cell spaces similar to those already described as lodging the cells of areolar tissue ; the cell spaces accurately correspond in size and shape to the cells which they Although the cells appear cubical in longitudinal view, transverse sections of the tendon shoAv them to be stellate, giving off nume- rous fine processes, which penetrate Ijetween contigu- ous bundles of the tendon. Fibrous tissue is white and glistening; it is very strong, Init is inelastic, un- less when intermixed with yellow fibres. It is con- verted into gelatine by boiling. Yellow Fibrous Tissue, or Elastic Tissue, enters Fig. 20.—Wliite or uon-elastic fibrous tissue. lodge. Fro. 21.—Caudal tendon of a young rat, showing the arrangement and form of the tendon cells. very generally into the striicture of tissues and organs in which the property of elasticity is an important quality. As an elastic and binding element it is present in the common areolar ti.ssue and superficial fascia, in the fascial sheaths of muscles, in the fil»rous capsules of different organs, as of the spleen, in the corium of the skin, in serous and mucous membi'anes, in the coats of blood-ves^sels and ducts ; and, in certain situations, is the sole tissue present, as in the ligamenta subflava, vocal cords, thyro-epiglottic ligament, crico-thyroid membrane, lateral thyro-hyoid and stylo-hyoid liga- ments, the memlii'anous layers connecting the cartilaginous rings of the trachea and l)ronchial tubes, and ligamentum suspensorium penis. It is most easily obtained from the ligamentum nucha) of the ox, sheej), or horse.