83 VEETEBRAL COLUMN. five secondary centres or epiphyses. Tlie primary centres are, one for ecacli lamina, and one for the body ; the epiphyses, one for the apex of the spinons process, one for that of each transverse process, one for the upper and one for the under surface of the body. Excep- .tions to this mode of development are met with in the atlas, axis, •'vertebra prominens, and lumbar vertebrae. The atlas has three centres ; one for each lateral mass, and one (sometimes two) for the anterior arch. The axis has six ; one (sometimes two) for the body ; two placed side by side in the base of the odontoid process, and a third at its tip ; lastly, one for each lamina. The vertebra prominens has two additional centres for the anterior or costal segments of the transverse processes, and the lumbar vert eh ne, two for the niammillary processes. The primary centres of the vertebrae make their appearance during the seventh or eighth week of embryonic existence, the laminee being ; somewhat in advance of the body. From the laminae are produced the spinous, transverse, and articular processes, and the sides of the body ; they unite, to complete the arch, one year after l)irth, and with the l)ody during the fifth year. The epiphyses for the extremi- ties of the spinous and transverse processes make their appearance at fifteen or sixteen, and become united to- the rest of the bone between twenty and twenty-five. The epiphyses of the body are somewhat later in appearance, and are consolidated between the peiiods of twenty-five and thirty years of age. The ossific centres for the lateral masses of the atlas a])pear at the same time as those of the other vertebrae ; they unite posteriorly at the end of the second year. The one or two centres of the anterior arch appear during the first year, and become consolidated with the lateral pieces during the fifth or sixth year. The axis develops its lateral j^ieces at the same time as the other vertebrae ; they join posteriorly soon after birth, and with the body during the fourth or fifth year. The centres for the body and odontoid process appear during the sixth month, and are consolidated during the third year. The body of the axis is more largely developed at birth than that of the other vertebrae. The costal segments of the vertebra prominens appear during the sixth month, and become united to the body at the fifth or sixth year ; they sometimes remain permanently separate, and constitute cervical ribs. The lumbar vertebrae have separate centi-es for the mammillary processes, but the transverse process of the first lumljar is sometimes developed altogether from a separate centre, and may I'emain permanently separate, in that case forming a lumbar rib. The ossification of the arches of the vertebrae commences from above, and proceeds gradually downwards ; hence arrest of develop- ment gives rise to spina bifida, generally in the loins. Ossification of tlie Ijodies, on the contrary, commences near the centre, and ]n-o- ceeds towards the extremities of the column ; hence imjierfection of the bodies occurs either in the upper or lower vertebrae. Attachment of Muscles.—To the atlas are attached nine pairs