609 LUMBAK GANGLIA. lesser splanchnic nerve. The nerves passing to the kidney from each plexus are about fifteen or twenty in number ; they accompany the branches of the renal artery and have numerous small ganglia upon them. Branches are given off from the renal plexuses to the inferior vena cava and sjoermatic plexuses. The superior mesenteric plexus has several small ganglia at the root of the artery ; and its nerves, which are whiter than those of the other plexuses, form a kind of nervous sheath to the artery and its branches. The aortic plexus is a continuation of the solar plexus down- wards on the aorta, for the supply of the inferior branches of that trunk ; it receives also branches from the renal plexuses and lumbar ganglia. It is the source of origin of the inferior mesenteric plexus and jjart of the spermatic plexus, and terminates below in the hypogastric j)lexus. It likewise distributes branches on the infe- rior vena cava. The spermatic plexus is derived from the renal j)lexus, but receives filaments from the aortic plexus. The inferior mesenteric plexus is derived chiefly from the aortic plexus. LUMBAR PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The lumbar portion of the trunk of the sympathetic is situated on the vertebral column, close to the anterior border of the psoas magnus muscle. It is continuous above, under the edge of the diaphragm, with the thoracic portion of the nerve, and below it descends upon the sacrum, in front of the anterior sacral foramina, to the coccyx. It presents four small ganglia and an intermediate cord. The lumbar ganglia, four in number at each side, of a pearly- grey colour and fusiform shape, are situated on the anterior part of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrce. Tlie branches of the lumbar ganglia are branches of communi- cation and branches of distribution. The external or communicating branches, two or three in number from each ganglion, and longer than in the other regions communicate with the lumbar nerves. ' The internal or visceral branches consist of two sets: the upper pass inwards in front of the abdominal aorta, and join the aortic plexus ; the lower cross the common iliac arteries, and unite over the promontory of the sacrum to form the hypogastric plexus. ° The hypogastric plexus is formed by the termination of the aortic plexus, and by the union of branches from the lower lumbar ganglia. It is situated over the promontory of the sacrum, between the two common ihac arteries, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lateral portions, inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexuses. 2 Q