I CORPUS CALLOSUM. commissure. It is situated in the middle line of the centrum ovale ] nil jus, but nearer the anterior than the posterior part of the brain, and ends anteriorly in a rounded border, genu, which may be traced downwards to the base of the brain in front of the commissure of the optic nerves ; it here gives off two narrow white bands called peduncles, which diverge from each other and pass backwards across the substantia perforata to the fissure of Syhdus, where they terminate. Posteriorly it forms a thick rounded fold, splenium, w hich is connected on its luider surface with the fornix; throughout the rest of its extent the corpus callosum is con- nected on its under sur- face with the septiun luci- dum. The length of the corpus callosum is about four inches. Along the middle line is the raphe, a linear depression between two slightly elevated longi- tudinal bands (chordce lon- llitadinales Lancisii); and, on each side of the raphe, may be seen the li7iece transversa}, which mark the direction of the fibres of which the corpus callosum is composed. These fibres may be traced into the hemispheres on each side, and they will be seen to be crossed at about an inch Fig. 303.—Section of the brain showing the cen- trum ovale majiis and corpus callosum. i, 1. Frontal lobes of the brain. 2, 2. Occipital lobes. 3, 3. Longitudinal fissure for the reception of tlie falx cerebri. 4, 4. Roof of the lateral ven- tricles. 5, 5. Genu of the corpus callosum. 6. Its body, upon which the lineaj transversas are seen. 7, 7. Splenium. 8. Rapb6. 9, 9. Stria; longitudinales laterales. from the raphe', by lateral longitudinal fibres, strim longitudinales laterales. Anteriorly and posteriorly the fibres of the corpus callosum cur\-e forwards and backwards into their correspond in ^ lobes. Beneath the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum is the transverse fissure of the cerebrum, which extends between the hemispheres and crura cerebri from near the fissure of Syhdus on one side, to the same point on the opposite side of the brain. It IS through this fissure that the pia mater communicates with the velum mterpositum. If a superficial incision be made through the corpus callosum on leach side of the raplie, two irregular cavities will be opened, which ;extend from one extremity of the hemispheres to the other; these