CAKDIAC YEIN8. 470 other by means of a complicated plexus. In front they form two longitnrlinal ti-unks (anterior longitwlinal spinal veins), extending the whole length of the column on each side of the posterior common ligament, and are joined on the body of each vertebra by transverse trunks, which pass beneath the ligament, and receive the large basi-vertebral veins from the interior of each vei-teljra. The pos- terior trunks (posterior longitudinal spinal veins) are smaller than the anterior; they are situated one on each side between the laminaj and the theca vertebralis ; they communicate with each other, with the anterior trunks, and with the dorsal-spinal A'eins. The meningo- rachidian veins communicate siiperiorly through the anterior con- dylar foramina with the internal jugulars ; in the neck they pour their blood into the vertebral veins ; in the thorax, into the inter- costals; and in the loins and pelvis into the lumbar and sacral veiiis, the communications being made through the intervertebral foramina. 3. The venae basis vertebrarum pass out through the large foramina in the posterior surfaces of the bodies of the vertebra?, and empty into the transverse branches of the anterior longitudinal spinal veins. They are contained in large tortuous channels in the .substance of the bones, similar to those in the diploe of the skull, and run parallel with the upper and lower surfaces of the bodies of the vertebrae. The canals become greatly developed in old age. 4. The meduUi-spinal veins are situated between the pia mater and arachnoid ; they communicate freely with each other to form plexuses, and send branches through the intervertebral foramina with each of the spinal nerves, to join the veins of the trunk. The A'eins of the spine have no valves. CARDIAC VEINS. The veins returning the blood from the substance of the heart are the— Great cardiac vein. Anterior cardiac veins. Posterior cardiac vein, Vente Thebesii, Right or small coronary vein. Coronary sinus. The great cardiac or coronary vein commences at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the anterior ventricular groove to the base of the ventricles ; it then curves around the left auriculo-ven- tricular groove to the posterior part of the heart, where it termi- nates in the coronary sinus, its opening being guarded by a valve of two segments. It receives in its course the left cardiac veins from the left auricle, and branches from the anterior wall of both ventricles. The posterior cardiac vein (frequently two in number)comniences also at the apex of the heart, and ascends along the posterior ventri- cular groove, to terminate in the coronary sinus. It receives, at right angles, the veins from the posterior aspect of the two ventricles. The anterior cardiac veins collect the blood from the anterior