LYMPHATICS OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 475 The deep cervical glands (glandulse concateiiatse) are numerous and of large size ; they are situated around tlie internal jugular vein and sheath of the carotid artery, by the side of the pharynx, ceso- ])hagus, and trachea, and extend from the base of the skull to the root of the neck, where they are in communication with the lym- phatic vessels and glands of the thorax. Vessels.—The superficial lymphatic vessels of the head and face are disposed in three groups : occipital, which take the course of the occipital vein to the occi- pital and deep cervical glands ; teviporal, which follow the branches of the temporal vein to the parotid and deep cer- vical glands ; and facial, which accompany the facial vein to the submaxillary lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatic vessels of the head are the meningeal and cerebral J the former are situated in comiection with the meningeal veins, and escape through foramina at the base of the skull, to join the deep cer- vical glands. The chief cerebral lymphatics are situated on the surface of the pia mater and in the choroid plexuses of the ventricles. They pass along with the internal carotid and verte- bral arteries and the internal jugular vein through the fora- mina at the base of the skull, to terminate in the deep cer- vical glands. In the substance of the brain the lymphatic capil- laries form perivascular spaces or cancels around all the blood-A-essels even to their smallest ramifications, and are in communication with similar spaces in the pia mater, and Avith the sub-arachnoid .space. The deep lymphatic vessels of the face proceed from the nasal fossEe, mouth, orbits, temporal fossae, and pharynx, and terminate in the submaxillary and deep cervical glands. The superficial and deep cervical lymphatic vessels accom- pany the jugular veins, passing from gland to gland ; at the root of - the neck they communicate with the thoracic lymphatic vessels, and terminate, on the right side, in the ductus lymphaticus dexter ; on the left, in the thoracic duct, near its termination. Fig. 285.—Superficial lymphatic vessels and fflaiids of the head and neck.