577 CIRCUMFLEX NERVE. The radial nerve runs along the radial side of the forearm to the commencement of its lower third; it there passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus, and, at about two inches above the wrist-joint, pierces the deep fascia and divides into an external and internal branch. The external branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the outer border of the thumb, and communicates with the posterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The internal branch crosses the direction of the extensor tendons of the thumb, and divides into several filaments for the supply of the ulnar border of the thumb, radial border of the index finger, and adjacent borders of the index and middle fingers. It communicates above the wrist with the pos- terior branch of the musculo-cu.taneous nerve, and on the back of the hand forms an arch by joining with the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve. On the backs of the fingers the digital branches com- municate with tliose of the median nerve. In the upper third of the forearm the radial nerve lies beneath the border of the supinator longus muscle; in the middle third it is in relation with the radial artery, lying to its outer side; and in the lower third it quits the artery, and passes beneath the tendon of the supinator longus to reach the back of the hand. The radial nerve is purely cutaneous in its distribution, giving no branches to muscles. The posterior interosseous nerve, somewhat larger than the radial, separates from the latter at the bend of the elbow, pierces the supinator brevis muscle and emerges from its lower border on the posterior aspect of the forearm, where it divides into branches which supply all the muscles of the posterior aspect of the forearm, with the exception of the anconeus, supinator longus, and extensor carpi radialis longior. In passing from the front to the back of the forearm it winds round the outer side of the radius, and does not pass between the two bones as the posterior interosseous artery does. One branch, longer than the rest, descends upon the interosseous membrane to the posterior part of the wrist, and forms a gangliform swelling (a common character of nerves which supply joints), from whicli numerous filaments are distributed to the wrist-joint and to the metacar]io-]:)halangeal articulations. The CIRCUMFLEX NERVE arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus in common with the musculo-spiral. It passes down- wards over the hovdev of the subscapularis muscle, winds around the neck of the humerus with the posterior circumflex artery, and splits into an upper and lower division ; the upper division is con- tinued onwards beneath the deltoid, and distributed to the anterior art of that muscle, some of its branches piercing the muscular bres and becoming cutaneous. Tlie lower division sends a branch (remarkable for a gangliform swelling) to the teres minor, several branches to the posterior part of the deltoid, and mounting upon the border of that muscle becomes cutaneous, supplying the integu- ment over its lowei' half hy means of several filaments. Besides its 2 o