INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. 432 crosses tlie perinevmi, resting on the transversiis perinei muscle, and is named the transverse perineal. Tliere are often two su])erficial perineal arteries. The artery of the bulb is given off from the pudic nearly opposit<; the opening for the transmission of the urethra; it passes almost transversely inwards behind the triangular ligament, and pierces that ligament to enter the corpus spongiosum at its bulbous ex- tremity. It is distributed in the corpus sj)ongiosum and gives a small branch downwards to Cowper's gland. The artery of the corpus cavernosum pierces the crus penis, and runs forward in the interior of the corpus cavernosum, Ijy the side of the septum pectiniforme. It ramifies in the parenchyma of the venous structure of the corpus cavernosum. The dorsal artery of the penis ascends l^etween the two crura and symphysis piibis to the dorsum penis, and rims forward through the suspensory ligament, in the groove of the corpus cavernosum, to the glans, distributing branches in its course to the body of the organ and integument. The pudic artery is sometimes small, and fails to give off some of its branches ; in such cases its distribution is supplemented by a separate artery called the accessory pudic. This branch is generally derived from the pudic before that vessel passes through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, but it sometimes springs from the inferior vesical, the obturator, or some other branch of the internal iliac. It passes along the side of the base of the bladder, and the lateral aspect of the prostate gland, pierces the triangular ligament to reach the root of the penis, and divides into the artery of the bulb and the dorsal artery of the penis ; or it may terminate in the superficial perineal artery. The INTERNAL PUDIC ARTERY in the female is smaller than in the male ; its branches, with their distribution, are, in principle, the same. The superficial perineal artery supplies the homologue of the lateral half of the scrotum, namely, the greater labium. The artery of the bulb supplies the bulb of the vestibule and commencement of the vagina ; the artery of the corpus cavernosum, the cavernous body of the clitoris ; and the arteria dorsalis clitoridis, the dorsum of that organ. Branches of the Posterior Trunk. The ILIO-LUMBAR ARTERY passes out between the obturator nerve and lumbo-sacral cord, and ascends beneath the external iliac vessels and psoas muscle, to the posterior part of the crest of the ilium, where it divides into two branches, a himhar branch M'hich supplies the psoas and quadratus lumborum, and sends a branch through the fifth intervertebral foramen to the spinal cord and it? membranes ; and an iliac branch which crosses the iliac fossa to the crest of the' ilium, and inosculates with the lumbar arteries and deep circumflex iliac; in its course it distributes branches to the iliacus and abdominal muscles.