ULNAR NERVE. 575 The branches of tlie ulnar nerve are— Articular, Dorsal branch, Muscular, Superficial. palmar. Cutaneous, Deep palmar. The articular branches are several filaments to the elbow-joint, given oft' from the nerve while lying in the groove between the inner condyle and olecranon. The muscular branches are distributed to the flexor carpi ulnaris and ulnar half of the flexor profundus digitorum. The cutaneous branch proceeds from about the middle of the nerve, and descends upon the ulnar artery to the hand, giving twigs to the integument in its coiirse. One branch from its upper part, sometimes a separate offset from the nerve and sometimes absent, pierces the fascia, and communicates with the internal cutaneous nerve. The dorsal branch passes Imckwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, at the lower fourth of the forearm, and divides into branches which supply the integument and two fingers and a half on the posterior aspect of the hand, communicating with the radial nerve, with which it forms an arch. The superficial palmar branch, after giving some twigs to the palmaris brevis and inner border of the hand, divides into three filaments, two of which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, and one to the adjoining borders of the little and ring fingers, while the third, a communicating branch, joins the median nerve. The deep palmar branch passes between the abductor and flexor minimi digiti, to the deep palmar arch, supplying the muscles of the little finger, interossei, two ulnar lumbricales, adductor pollicis, and inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The ulnar nerve supplies in the forearm the flexor carpi ulnaris and half the flexor profundus digitorum ; in the hand it supplies all the muscles of the palm which lie to the ulnar side of the tendon of the long flexor of the thumb except the two radial lumbricales. Its cutaneous branches are distributed to one and a half flngers on the front and two and a half on the back of the hand. The MUSCULO-SPIRAL NERVE, the largest branch of the brachial plexus, arises from its posterior trunk in common with the circum- rtex, and, descending behind the axillary and brachial artery, winds around the humerus between the triceps and the bone, and in com- pany with the superior profunda artery, pierces the external inter- muscular septum from behind forwards to reach the space between the brachialis anticus and supinator longus, and runs thence onwards to the bend of the elbow, where it divides into two branches, radial and posterior interosseous. The branches of the musculo-spiral nerve are— Muscular, Cutaneous, Radial, Posterior interosseous.