APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. 69 scalp ; wliile along tlie margins of the eyelids, and in the whiskers and beard, they are remarkable for their thickness. Hairs are generally more or less flattened in form, and on transverse section present an elliptical or reniform outline. This examination also demon- strates that the centre of the liair is porons and loose in texture, Avhile its periphery is dense ; thus affording ground for its division into a cortical and a medullary portion. The free extremity of a hair is gene- rally pointed, and sometimes split into two or three ttla- ments. Its attached extremity is implanted deeply in the in- tegument, extending through Fig. 79.—The haii-s and their connections. I. Hair bulb. 2. Inner sheath of tlie fol- licle. 3. Sebaceous gland. 4. Erector pili muscle. the derma into the subcutaneous areolar tissiie, where rounded by adipose tissue. The central extremity of a hair, is larger than its shaft, and is called the root or hidb. It is rounded or conical in shajje. The outer surface of tlie hair is coA'ered by a layer of flattened cells, wliich overlap each other at the edges like the tiles of a house. The bulk of the sliaft consists of cells wdiich have become flattened, elongated, and welded together, the union being .often so intimate that no indication of the individual elements fi/om which it is formed can lie made out, except liy the aid of chemical re- agents. Very small elongated nuclei it is sur- may be demonstrated among the fibres, and occasional dai'k streaks, some of which are due to deposits of ]iiginent, and others to air s'paces. The bull) of the hair has projecting into it a small process of papilla Irom the derma ; it contains blood- ve.«sels and nerves, and furnishes nutriment to the cells of the bulb, hy the multiplication of which the hair increases in size. Fici. 80.—Section of a hair follicle. I. Epidermic coat of follicle or root-sheath. 2. Dermic coat. a. Outer layer of dermic coat with blood-vessels, b, b, cut across; c, middle layer ; d, inner or hyaline layer; e, outer root-sheath ; /, rf, inner root-sheath ; h, cuticle of root- sheath ; i, hair. {Scha/er after Biesiadecki.) The hair is contained in a de- pre.ssion passing deeply into the reticular layer of the corium, and