EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. 354 tendinosus, a synovial bursa being interposed. At the knee-join I its posterior border is in relation with the internal saphena vein. SCARPA'S SPACE.—This is a triangular space of some surgical importance situated at the upper part of the thigh ; in its upper part femoral hernia takes place, and in its lower part ligature of the femoral artery is usually performed. Its base is formed by Pouparl's ligament, its inner border by the adductor longus, its outer bordor by the sartorius muscle, and its apex is at the point where the lattci' muscle crosses the artery. Its floor is formed by the iliacus, psoas, pectineus, adductor longus, and a small part of the adductor brevis. It contains tlie common femoral, superficial femoral, profunda femo- ris, and circumflex arteries, the superficial and profunda femoiis veins, anterior crural nerve and its branches, external cutaneous nerve and deep lymphatic vessels. A perpendicular line, drawn from the middle of the base to the apex of this triangle, immediately overlies the femoral artery with its sheath. The RECTUS FEMORIS is a fusiform muscle placed in the middle of the anterior aspect of the thigh. It arises by a flattened tendon from the space between tlie inferior curved line of the dorsum of the ilium and the upper margin of the acetabulum, its fibres being intimately blended with the circular fibres of the capsular ligament of the hip, and with the cotyloid ligament; this is usually described as the reflected head. The muscle is also connected by means of a rounded accessory band of condensed areolar tissue with tlie anterior inferior spine of the ilium, and by a falciform ^jrocess tr about an inch of the anterior border of the ilium above the inferi( r spine ; this connection is generally regarded as the direct continua- tion of the muscle, and is described as the straight head. These heads are connected by a deep process of the ilio-tibial band and by areolar and adipose tissue situated between the two layers of that process of fascia. The body of the muscle is spindle-shaped, and is composed of fleshy and tendinous fibres disposed in the following manner : the superior tendon as it descends spreads out into an aponeurosis which covers the anterior surface of the upper third of the muscle, and sends a tendinous band between the fleshy fibres as far as the lower third of the thigh ; the inferior tendon, in like manner, spreads out on the back part of the muscle, so as to form an aponeurosis which covers the lower two-thirds of that aspect Between these two the fleshy fibres pass, being arranged in a penni- form manner, those in the middle of the thigh being connected • anteriorly with the tendinous band above described as originating from the upper aponeurosis. The lower tendon becomes narrowed a few inches above the patella into a flat band which receives on • its borders the attachment of some fibres of the vastus externus and internus, and is inserted into the anterior edge of the upper surface of the patella. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus meduis, psoas and iliacus, sartorius ; and for the lower three-fourths of ite " extent with the fascia lata. By its deep surface with the capsule