FHONTAL BONE. 92 Development.—Ossified in membi'ane from a single centre wliicli appears in tlie parietal eminence in the seveutli week. At the time of birth the superior angles are unossifiecl, and intervals are thus left between the parietal and frontfil in front, and the parietal and occipital behind ; tliese are called tlie anterior and posterior fonta- nelles. Articulations.—With five bones; with the opposite ^jarietal, occipital, frontal, temporal, and sphenoid. Attachment of Muscles.—I'o one only, the temporal. The aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis glides over its upper surface. FRONTAL BONE. The frontal bone bears some resemblance in form to the under valve of a scallop-shell. It is situated at the anterior part of the cranium, forming the forehead, and assisting in the construction of the roof of the orbits and nose. Hence it is divisible into a superior or frontal portion, and an inferior or orbito-nasal portion. Each of these portions presents for examination an external and internal surface, borders, and processes. External Surface.—At about the middle of each lateral half of the frontal portion is a jDrojection, the frontal eminence. Below these Fig. 97.—External surface of the fi-ontal bone. i. Situation of the frontal eminence of the right side. 2. Superciliary ridge. 3. Supraorbital ridge. 4. External angular process. 5. Internal angular pi'ocess. 6. Supraorbital notch, for the tfaiismis.iiion of the supra- oi-bital nerve and artery. 7. Glabella. 8. Temporal crest, commencing from the external angular process (4). 9. Part of the temjioral fossa. 10. Nasal spine. points are the superciliary ridges, lai'ge towards their inner termina- tion, where they become continuous with the na.sal tuberosity, and becoming gradually smaller as they arch outwards: they support the eyebrows. Beneath the superciliary ridges are the sharp and prominent arches which form the upper margin of the orbits, the supraorbital ridges. Externally the supraorbital ridge terminates in the external angular fvocess, internally in the internal angular j^roccss;