ABDOMINAL AORTA. 426 The SUPRA-RENAL (capsular) are two small vessels which arise from tlie aorta immediately above the renal arteries, and are distri- buted to the supra-renal capsules. They ai'e sometimes branches of the phrenic or of the renal arteries. The RENAL ARTERIES (emulgent) are two large trunks given off from the sides of the aorta immediately below the superior mesen- teric artery ; the right is longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta, and passes behind the vena cava to the kidney of that side. The left is somewhat higher than the right. They divide into several large branches previously to entering the kidney, and ramify very minutely in its vascular portion. The renal arteries supply several small branches to the supra-renal capsules, and one to the ureter. The renal arteries are subject to great variation in their number and place of origin. Frequently two or three branches arise from different parts of the aorta; in other instances a single trunk springs from the front of the aorta, and divides into two branches, one for each kidney; other cases are recorded where the renal arteries spring from the common iliac, inferior mesenteric, middle sacral, and even from the internal iliac. The LUMBAR ARTERIES are four in number at each side ; they correspond with the intercostals in the chest. Each artery curves around the body of the lumbar vertebra beneath the psoas muscle, and divides into two branches: one, dorsal branch, passes backwards between the transverse processes, and is distributed to the vertebrtB and spinal cord and muscles of the back ; the other, parietal branch, taking its course behind the quadratus lumborum, sui^plies the abdominal muscles, and inosculates with branches of the internal mammary and epigastric arteries in front, the terminal twigs of the intercostals above, and the ilio-lumbar and circumflex iliac below. The first lumbar artery runs along the lower border of the last rib ; the last, along the crest of the ilium. In passing between the psoas muscle and the vertebrae, they are protected by a series of tendinous arches, which defend them and the communicating branches of the sym- pathetic nerve from pressure, during the action of the muscle. The SACRA MEDIA arises from the posterior part of the aorta just above its bifurcation, and descends along the middle of the anterior surface of the sacrum to the first piece of the coccyx, where it ter- minates by inosculating with the lateral sacral arteries. It dis- tributes branches to the rectum and anterior sacral nerves, and inosculates at either side with the lateral sacral arteries. Coccygeal Gland or Luschka's Gland.—Lying in front of the coccyx near its tip is a small mass, connected with the extremity of the middle sacral artery, and named by Luschka, who first described it, the coccygeal gland. It consists of a number of small arteries with terminal dilatations like minute aneurisms, held together by fibrous tissue, Avhich also forms a capsule for the whole mass ; in the meshes of the stroma one or two ganglion cells are found, and a few small nerves derived from the sympathetic prevertebral chain. It appears to be the remains of fwtal tissues.