RADIUS, H3 RADIUS, The radius is the rotatory bone of the fore-arm ; it is divisible into a shaft and two extremities : unHke the ulna, its upper extremity is small, and merely accessory to the formation of the elbow-jomt; while the lower extremity is large, and forms almost solely the joint of the wrist. . The upper extremity presents a rounded liead, depressed on its upper surface into a shallow cup for articulation with the capitellum of the humerus. Around the margin of the head is a smooth articular surface which is broad on the inner side, where it articulates with the lesser sigmoid notch of the ulna, and narrow in the rest of its circumference, to play in the orbicular ligament. Beneath the head is a constricted circular nech; and beneath the neck, on its inter- nal aspect, a prominent process, the tuberosity. The surface of the tuberosity is partly smooth and partly rough : rough behind, where it receives the attachment of the tendon of the biceps ; and smooth in front, where a bursa is interposed between the tendon and the bone. The shaft of the bone is prismoid, and presents three surfaces. The anterior surface is somewhat concave superiorly, where it lodges the flexor longus poUicis ; and flat below, where it supports the pronator quadratus. At about the uj)per third of this surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed upwards. The posterior surface is round above, where it sujjports the supinator brevis muscle, and marked below by several shallow oblique grooves, which aftbrd attachment to the extensor muscles of the thumb. The external sur- face is round and convex, and marked in its middle by a rongli impression for the insertion of the pronator radii teres ; it is separated from tlie anterior surface below by a rounded border, and above by a distinct ridge which runs forwards on to the anterior surface of the bone, and terminates in the lower part of the tuberosity ; this is called the oblique ridge, and gives attachment to the flexor sublimis digitorum. On the inner margin is a sharp and prominent crest, which gives attachment to the interosseous membrane. The lower extremity of the radius is broad and triangular, and provided with two articular surfaces ; one at the side of the l)one, which is concave to receive the rounded head of the ulna ; the other at the extremity, and marked by a slight ridge into two facets, ome external and triangular^ corresponding with the scaphoid ; the other square, with the semilunar bone. At the outer side of the extremity is a strong conical projection, the styloid process, which gives attacli- ment by its base to the tendon of the supinator longus, and by its apex to tlie external lateral ligament of the wrist-joint. The inner edge of the terminal articular surface affords attachment to the base of the triangular interarticular fibro-cartilage of the wrist-joint. Immediately in front of the styloid process is a groove, which lodges the tendons of the extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and ex-;