712 TEETH. are fretjuently separated to some distance from eacli other, and curved backwards so as to offer consideraljle resistance in the operation of extraction. The range of teeth in each jaw forms a pretty uniform curve, with- out any l^reak or diastema, such as occurs to some extent in the Quadrumana, and more markedly in the Rodents and Ruminants. Characters of the Temporary Teeth.—In general form these I'csemble the teeth of the permanent set, but they are smaller. The enamel which covers the crown terminates in a more distinct edge than in the permanent teeth, so that the neck is more evidently constricted. The canines are relatively shorter, and their crowns l)roader than those which succeed them. The second molar is the largest, being, indeed, larger than the second .jDermanent bicuspid which succeeds it. The first upper molar has only three cusps, the second has four ; the first lower molar has four and the second five cusps. The fangs are like those of the permanent set, but are smaller and more divergent. Structure of the Teeth. If a vertical section l)e made through a tooth, it will be fomid to be hollowed out in its interior into a small cavity, the ^;it^^j cavity, which has a general resemblance in its form to the external configuration of tlie tooth. It extends upwards a little into the cusps, and is prolonged downwards into the fangs, terminating at the extremity of eacli of the latter in a small opening which trans- mits the vessels and nerves. This cavity is filled with a soft, higlily vascular, and sen- sitive substance, called the dental 2nilp, which is continuous through the apertures at the extremity of the fangs Avith the periosteum on the outside of the tooth. The solid portion of the tooth is com- posed of three distinct structures :—(i) The dentine or ivory, A\'hich forms the bulk of the tooth ; (2) the enamel, which forms a thick covering to the crown; and (3) the cement, which covers the fang externally. Tlie dentine (ivory or tooth 1)one) is a r,G 422.-Yertical section of hard substance ha\dng some resemblance molar tooth, a. Enamel, b, to bone, l )ut on miciuscopic examination ,,. Cementum. c. Dentine appears to consist of very minute, taper- d. Osseous excrescence at . ii i. i i ,,„K,>,l/1nr^ iSi end of fang. e. Pulp cav- ing, and brandling tubules, embedded m ity. /. Lacunar spaces at ^ dense, homogeneous intertubular matrix, outer part of dentine. rj^-^^^^^ tubules commence by their larger ends in the wall of the pulp cavity, and pursue a radiating and serpentine course towards the i)eripliery of the tooth ; they give