CAKPUS. 146 tensor pniui mternodii; and, behind the pr<jce8s, a broader groove, fre(iuently divided by a slight ridge, for the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and ])i-evior ; Ijehind this is a i)roniinent ridge, and a deep nariow groove, for the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis ; and internal to this, another broad groove for the tendons of the extensor coninmnis digitorum, and extensor indicis: the ex- tensor minimi digiti running in a groove at the point of arti- culation of the radius and ulna. Development.—By three cen- tres ; one for the shaft, and one for each extremity. Ossifica- tion commences in the shaft soon after the humerus, and before the ulna. The inferior centre appears during the second year, the superior about the fifth. The upper epiphysis unites about puberty, the lower about the age of twenty. Articulations.—With four bones: humerus, ulna, scaphoid, and semilunar. Attachment of Muscles.— To nine : by the tuberosity to the biceps ; by the oblique ridge, supinator brevis, flexor sublimis dicjitorum ; by the anterior sur- FiG. 133.—Grooves at the back of tlie radius and ulna. i. Radius. 2. Ulna. 3. Groove for extensor ossis nietacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis. 4. Groove for extensor carpi radialis longior. 5. For extensor carpi radialis brevior. 6. For extensor secundi internodii pollicis. 7. For extensor communis digitorum and exten- sor indicis. 8. For extensor minimi digiti. face, flexor longUS pollicis and 9. For extensor carpi ulnaris. ^ pronator quadratus ; by the ex- ternal surface, pronator radii teres ; by the posterior surface, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis and extensor primi internodii; and by the stifloid process, supinator longus. CARPUS. The bones of the carpus are eight in number, arranged in two rows, consisting of four bones each : those of the jiroximal row, enumerating from the radial side, are the scaphoid, semilunar, cuneiform, and pisiform ; those of the distal row, in the same order, are the trapezium, trapezoid, os magnum, and unciform. With the exception of the semilunar, they all have the dorsal surface broad and convex, and the palmar contracted ; the semilunar differs from the rest, in that its dorsal surface is narrow and flattened