LYMPHATICS. (siiiuse.s), coiTespouding with tlie flaps of the valves, ^v\nc]l giva to the distended or injected vein a knotted appearance. The valves are most numerous in the veins of the extremities, particularly in the deeper veins, and they are generally absent in the very small veins, and in the veins of the viscera, as in the portal and cerebral veins, those of the liver, kidney, and uterus ; tliey are also absent in the lai'ge trunks, as in the vente cavse, venae azygos, innominate, pulmonary, and iliac veins. The trunk and branches of the umbilical vein are devoid of valves, as are also the ovarian veins, and the veins of the can- cellous tissue of l^one. Sinuses are venous channels, excaA'ated in the structure of an organ, and lined by the internal coat of the veins ; of this structure are the sinuses of the diira inatei', whose external covering is the filjrous tissue of the membrane. The external investment of the sinuses of the uterus is the tissue of that organ. Veins, like arteries, are sujjplied Avith nutritious vessels, the rasa vasorum; their nervous filaments, few in number and of small size, are derived from the sympathetic and spinal system ; they have been chiefly found on the largei' A'eins, as, the vena) cava), iliacs, crural, jugular, vertebral, and sinuses of the dura mater. Fig, -A. Part of a vein laid open, with two jiairs of valves. B. Longitudinal seu- tioa of a vein, sliowing the valves closed. LYMPHATICS. Lymphatic vessels form a secondary vascular system and sei've two important purposes, namely, to convey into the blood tlie products of intestinal digestion, and to return to the blood materials which having l)een once used do not I'cquire to be excreted, but may, after undergoing change or elaboration in the lymphatic vessels and glands, be again used for the building up of tissues. Tlie A^essels employed tor the first of these purposes are called lacteals, from the milkv lluid tliey convey ; the rest of the vessels are called lymphatics, froiu the fluid contained being clear and transparent (lym2)ha, water). These two kinds of vessels do not differ structurally from each other. The lymphatic system consists of three parts, "^vessels, capillaries, and glands. Lymphatic vessels are of two kinds — large vessels, as the thoracic, duct- and its trilnitaries ; and small vessels, such as are iound throughout the body generally. Both kinds possess a great numl)er of valves placed at very short distances from each other, so that when a lymphatic vessel is'inflatcd it ])resents a lieaded appear- ance. The valves are almost identical in structure and arrangement