225 TAKSO-METATAKSAL ARTICULATION, Actions.—The movements permitted by the articulation between the astragalus and os calcis, are a slight degree of gliding, in the direction fonoards and backwards, and laterally from side to side. The movements of the second range of tarsal bones are very trifling, being greater between the scaphoid and three cuneiform bones than in the other articulations. The movements occurring between the first and second range are the most considerable ; they are adduction and abdiLction; and, in a minor degree, flexion, which increases the arch of the foot, and extension, whicla flattens the arch. 6. TARSO-METATARSAL ARTICULATION.—The ligaments of this articulation are :— Dorsal, Plantar, Interosseous. The dorsal ligaments connect the metatarsal to the tarsal bones, and the metatarsal bones with each other. The base of the second metatarsal bone, articulating with the three cuneiform bones, receives a ligamentous slip from each, while the rest articulating with a single tarsal bone receive only a single tarsal slip. The plantar ligaments have a similar disposition on the plantar surface. The interosseous ligaments are situated between the bases of the metatarsal bones of the four lesser toes ; also between the base of the second and third metatarsal bones and the internal and external cuneiform bones. The metatarsal bone of the second toe being implanted by its base between the internal and external cuneiform bones, is the most strongly articulated of all the metatarsal bones. This disposition must be recollected in amputation at the tarso-metatarsal articu- lation. The synovial membranes of the tarso-metatarsal articulation are three in number : one for the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; one for the second and third metatarsal bones, which is continuous with the great tarsal synovial membrane ; and one for the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones. Actions.—The movements of the metatarsal on the tarsal bones and on each other are very slight; they are such only as contribute to the strength of the foot, by permitting a certain degree of yielding tu opposing forces. 7- METATARSO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATION.—The ligaments of this articulation, like those between the first phalanges and meta- carpal bones of the hand, are :— Inferior or plantar, Two lateral, Transverse. The inferior or plantar ligaments, thick and fibro-cartilaginous, iorm jjart of the articulating surface of the joint. The lateral ligaments, short and very strong, are situated one on each side of the joint. The transverse ligament is a strong band, which passes trans- versely between the plantar ligaments.