657 2 T PART VII. SPLANCHNOLOGY. That part of tlie science of anatomy wliicli treats of the viscera is named splanchnology, from the Greek words o-TrXayx^o"; viscns, and Xdvoj. The viscera of the human body are situated in the three great'internal cavities : cranio-spinal, thorax, and abdomen. The viscera of the cranio-spinal cavity, namely, the brain and spinal cord, with the principal organs of sense, have been already described, in conjunction with the nervous system. The viscera of the chest are : "the central organ of circulation, the heart; the organs of respiration, the lungs ; and the thymus gland. The abdominal viscera admit of a subdivision into those which properly belong to that cavity—viz., the alimentary canal, liver, pancreas, spleen, kid- neys, and'^supra-renal capsules ; and those of the pelvis : the bladder and internal organs of generation. THORAX. The thorax is the conical cavity situated at the upper part of the trunk of the body ; it is narrow above and broad below, and is bounded, in fronts by the sternum, six superior costal cartilages, ribs, and intercostal muscles ; laterally, by the ribs and intercostal muscles ; and, behind, by the ribs, intercostal muscles, and vertebral column, as low down as the upper border of the last rib and first lumbar vertebra ; superiorly, by the first rib at each side, the upper part of the sternum in front and the body of the second dorsal vertebra behind ; and, inferiorly, by the diaphragm. The superior opening of the thorax gives passage to the folloAving parts, namely, the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and longus colli muscles ; the remains of the thymus gland ; the trachea, CBSophagus, and thoracic duct; left carotid, left subclavian, innominate, superior intercostal, and internal mammary arteries ; the right and left innominate and inferior thyroid veins ; the pneumogastric, cardiac, left recurrent laryngeal, phrenic, and sympathetic nerves ; the anterior division of the first dorsal nerve ; and the upper part of the lungs and pleurse. The cavity of the thorax is much deeper on the jDosterior than on the anterior wall, in consequence of the obliquity of the diaphragm, and contains the heart enclosed in its pericardium, with the great