LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. 191 Fig. 158.—Transverse section of dorsal vertebra and lieads of ribs. i. Head of rib. 2. Transverse process of vertebra. 3. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament. 4. Interosseous costo-transvei'se ligament. 5. Posterior costo-transverse ligament. the middle fasciculus is attached to the intervertebral substance ; the inferior to the vertebra below. In the first rib the ligament is not divided, but its fibres pass to the body of the last cervical as well as the first dorsal. In like manner the ligaments connected with the tenth, eleventli, and twelfth ribs pass to the body of the ver- tebra above, as Avell as to that with which the head of the rib articulates. The capsular liga- ment is a thin layer of ligamentous filires surrounding the joint in the interval left by the anterior ligament; it is thickest above and below the articula- tion, and protects the synovial membranes. The interarticular ligament is a short band of fibres which passes between the sliarp crest on tlie head of the rib and the inter- vertebral substance. It divides the joint into two cavities, each being furnished with a separate synovial viembrane. The first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth ribs have no interarticular ligament, and consequently but one synovial membrane. The anterior (or superior) costo-transverse ligament is a broad l)and composed of two fas- ciculi, ^\-hich ascend from tlie crest- like ridge on the neck of the rib, to the transverse process immedi- ately above. The ligament sepa- rates the anterior from the dorsal branch of the intercostal nerve ; ' it is absent from the first rib. The middle costo-transverse ligament is a strong interosseous ligament passing directly between, the posterior surface of the neck of the rib, and the anterior surface of the transverse process against which It rests. It is rudimentary in the two inferior ribs. Fio. 159.—Posterior view of part of tlic dorsal portion of tli e vertebral column, shov7ingthe ligaments connecting the vertebrse with each other and the ribs with the vertebrae, i, i. Supraspin- ous ligament. 2, 2, 2. Ligaments subflavii, connecting the laminjB. 3. Anterior costo-transverse ligament. , 4. Posterior costo-transvei'se liga- mciits.