2o6 WKIST-JOINT. trian,t,'ul;u' libro-cartilage above, and the rounded surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones below ; its ligaments are four in number :— Anterior, Posterior, Internal lateral, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and membranous layer consist- ing of three fasciculi, which pass downwards and inwards between the anterior margin of the lower end of the radius and the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones. It is pierced by numerous small openings for vessels, and has lying in front of it the tendons of the flexor profundus digito- rum and flexor longus pollicis. The posterior ligament, also thin and loose, passes down- wards and inwards between the posterior surface of the radius and the posterior surface of the scaphoid, semilunar, and cunei- form bones. The internal lateral liga- ment extends from the styloid process of the ulna to the cunei- form and pisiform bones. The external lateral liga- ment is attached by one ex- tremity to the styloid process of the radius, and by the other to the side of the scaj^hoid bone, Fi<5.170.—I. Radius. 2. Interosseous mem- gome of its fibres being pro- brane. -?. Articulation between lower end j ^ j.i j. • ' j of ulna Ind interarticular fibro-cartilage longed to the trapezium and an- terior annular ligament. The radial artery rests on this liga- ment as it passes backwards to the first metacarpal space. Actions. — The movements of the wrist-joint are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction: no rotation opened. 4. Space for anterior interosseous artery. 5. External lateral ligament of wrist. 6. Lower end of ulna. 7. Anterior ligament of wrist. 8. Internal lateral liga- ment of wrist. 9. Tubercle of scaphoid. JO. Pisiform bone. 11. Trapezium. 12. Hook of unciform bone. 13. Articulation between trapezium and first metacarpal. 14. Anterior ligament of carpus. 16. Intermetacarpal and carpo - metacarpal ligaments. takes place at this joint. Nerve-supply.—The ulnar and posterior interosseous. Bursas.—The bursae in connection with this joint chiefly take the form of synovial sheaths for the tendons ; those more immediately in relation with the ligaments are as follows :—One between the tendon of. the flexor longus pollicis and the anterior ligament, one between the flexor profundus tendons and the same ligament, a third of rounded form between the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris