170 MIDDLE CUNEIFORM. inner Ijorder of tlie foot; it presents near its anterior extremity a smooth facet, into which part of tlie tendon of tlie til)ialis anticus is inserted. The concave is external, and is marked Ijy an inverted L- shaped articular surface, limited to its superior and posterior borders, for articulation with the middle cuneifoi'in and second metatarsjil bone. The long border is l<idney-sha]ied, and articulates with the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; the short border is posterior, and ai'ticulates with the scaphoid bone. The small extj-emity (edge) is sharp, and is dir-ected upwards ; the larger extremity (l)ase) looks towards the sole of the foot, and is rounded into a Itroad tuljerosity. Recognition.—^Place the bone so that the small extremity may look upwards and the kidney-shaped articular border foi'wards ; the depression in the middle of the latter will point to the side corre- sponding with the foot to which it belongs. Articulations.—With four liones : scaphoid, middle cuneiform, and first two luetatarsal bones. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tibialis anticus and posticus and ])eroneus longus. MIDDLE CUNEIFORM. —The middle cuneiform is the smallest of the three ; it is wedge-shaped, tlie broad extremity being placed upwards, the sharp end down- wards in the foot. It presents for examina- tion four articular sur- faces and two free bor- ders. The anterior and jjosterior surfaces have nothing worthy of re- mark, excepting that the former extends the whole de]ith of the bone, while the latter is limited to its upper two-thirds. The inter- nal lateral surface has an L-shaped articular facet, extending along its upper and posterior margins for the internal cuneiform ; the external has an articular facet limited to the posterior border for the external cuneiform bone. Recognition.—If the bone be held so that the flat dorsal surface look upwards, its broadest edge being towards the holder, the articular surface, limited to the po.sterior border, will point to the side to which the bone belongs. Fin. 146.—Sole of the left foot. I. Inner tuberositj' of the OS calcis. 2. Outer tuberosity. * Posterior tuberosity. 3. Gi-oove for the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis ; this tigui-e indicates also the sustentaculum tali, upon which it is placed. 4. Rounded head of the astra- galus. 5. Scaphoid bono. 6. Its tubercle. 7. Iti- ternal cuneiform bone ; its broad extremity. 8. Middle cuneiform bone. g. External cuneiform bone. 10, II. Cuboid bone. II. Groove for the tendon of the peroneus longus ; the promineucc between this groove and figure 10 is the tuberosity of the boue. 12, 12. Metatarsal bones. 13, 13. First pha- langes. 14, 14. Second phalanges of the foui- lesser toes. 15, 15. Third or ungu.il phalanges of the four lesser toes. 16. Last plialanx of the great toe.