MUSCLES OF NOSE. 239 The COMPRESSOR NASI is a tliin and triangular muscle-; it arises by its apex from the canine ridge of the superior maxillary hone, and spreads out upon the side of the nose into a thin tendinous expansion, which is continuous across the ridge with the muscle of the opposite side, and above with the tendon of the pyramidalis nasi. It is connected at its origin with a muscular fasciculus which is attached to the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone im- mediately below the origin of the levator labii superioris aloeque nasi. This muscular slip was termed by Albinus, muscuhis anomalus, from its attachment to bone by both ends. Relations.—By its superficial sur- face with the levator labii superioris proprius, levator labii superioris alaeqne nasi, and integument; by its deep surface with the superior maxil- lary and nasal bones, and with the alar and lateral cartilages of the nose. Nerve - supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. The DILATATOR NARIS is a thin .gs-Muscles of the n and indistinct muscular apparatus ex- panded on the ala of the nostril, and consisting of an anterior and poste- rior slip. The anterior slip (levator proprius alse nasi anterior) arises from the upper border and surface of the alar cartilage, and is inserted into the integument of the border of the nostril. The posterior slip (leva- tor proprius alae nasi posterior) arises from the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone and sesamoid cartilages, and is inserted into the posterior half of the integument of the border of the nostril. These muscles are difficult of dissection, from the close adhesion of the integument to the nasal cartilages. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. The DEPRESSOR ALiE NASI (depressor labii superioris alseque nasi) is brought into view by drawing upwards the upper lip and laising the mucous membrane. It arises from the incisive fossa of the superior maxillary bone, and passes upwards and inA\'ards to be inserted into the posterior part of the columna and ala nasi. It is closely connected with the deep surface of the orbicularis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the mucous membrane Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Upper part of the levator labii superioris alfe- que nasi turned aside. 3. Com- pressor nasi. 4. Musculus ano- malus. 5. Levator proprius alae nasi anterior. 6. Levator proprius ate nasi posterior. 7. Part of the depressor ahe nasi. 8. Upper seg- ment of the orbicularis oris. 9. Naso-labialis. lo. Accessory slips of the orbicularis.