353 SARTORIUS. may be crossed by one or two transverse incisions, as may be deemed most proper. The TENSOR VAGIN-S FEMORIS (stretcher of the sheath of the thigh) is a short flat muscle, situated on the outer side of the hip. It arises from the crest of the ilium, near its anterior superior spinous process, and from the notch be- tween the two anterior spinous j)rocesses, and is inserted between two layers of the fascia lata at about one-fourth down the thigh. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the fascia lata and integument. By its deep surface with an internal layer of the fascia lata, gluteus medius, rectus, and vastus externus. By its inner border near its origin with the sartorius. gluteal Nerve - supply. — Superior lierve. The SARTORIUS (tailor's muscle) is a long ribbon-like muscle, arising from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, and from the notch immediately below that process ; it crosses obliquely the upper third of the thigh, descends behind tlie inner condyle of the femur, and is inserted^ by an aponeurotic expan- sion into the upper part of the inner side of the tibia, nearly as far forward as the crest. This expansion covers in the in- sertion of the tendons of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus muscles. The inner border of the sartorius muscle is the guide to the operation for tying the femoral artery in the middle of its course, and the outer boundary of Scarpa's triangular space. This muscle is pierced by two nerves, the middle cutaneous and the patellar branch of tlie long saphenous. Nerve - supply. — Anterior crural nerve. Relations.— By its superficial siirface with the fascia lata and cutaneous nerves. By its deep surface with the psoas and iliacus, rectus, sheath of the femoral vessels, vastus internus, adductor longus, adductor magnus, gracilis, long saphenous nerve, internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. By its expanded insertion with the tendons of the gracilis and semi- z Fig. 238.—Muscles of the ante- rior femoral region. I. Crest of the ilium. 2. Its anterior superior spinous process. 3. Gluteus medius. 4. Tensor vaginae femoris ; its insertion into the fascia lata is shown inferiorly. 5. Sartorius. 6. Rectus. 7. Vastus externus. 8. Vastus internus. p. Pat- ella. 10. Iliacus internus. II. Psoas magnus. 12. Pec- tineus. 13. Adductor longua. 14. Part of the adductor magnus. 15. Gracilis.