339 ADDUCTOK POLLICIS. bone in eacli of their tendons to protect the joint, and send tendinous slips to join the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii at the back of the first phalanx. The outer head is joined by a considerable bundle of fibres from the inner, which passes obliquely behind the long flexor tendon in order to reach it. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the external portion of the palmar fascia. By its deep surface with the adductor pollicis, tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and trapezo-metacarjDal articula- tion. By its external surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. By its inner surface with the tendons of the long flexor muscles and first lumbricalis. Nerve-supply.—Outer head by the median nerve, inner by the ulnar. The ADDUCTOR POLLICIS is a triangular muscle ; it arises by a broad origin from the middle two-thirds of the palmar surface of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger ; the fibres converge to its insertion into the base of the first phalanx of the thumb and internal sesamoid bone, where it is united A\'ith the inner head of the flexoi* brevis. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the flexor brevis pollicis, tendons of the deep flexor of the fingers, lumbricales, and deep palmar arch. By its posterior surface with the metacarpal bones of the index and middle finger, the interossei of the second inter- osseous space, and the first dorsal interosseous. Its inferior border is subcutaneous. Nerve-supply.—Ulnar nerve. Ulnar or Hypothenar Region. Palmaris brevis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Abductor minimi digiti. Flexor ossis metacarj)i. Dissection.—Turn aside the ulnar flap of integument from the palm of the hand ; in doing this, a small subcutaneous muscle, the palmaris brevis, will be exposed. After examining this muscle, remove it with the deep fascia, in order to bring into view the muscles of the little finger. The PALMARIS BREVIS is a thin plane of muscular fibres about an inch in width, which arises from the annular ligament and palmar fascia, and passes transversely inwards to be inserted into the integu- ment of the inner border of the hand. Relations.— By its siqoerficial surface with the fat and integument of the inner portion of the palm. By its deep surface with the ulnar portion of the palmar fascia, which separates it from the ulnar artery, veins, and nerve, and from the muscles of the inner border of the hand. Nerve-supply.—Ulnar nerve. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI is a small tapering muscle which arises from the pisiform bone, where it is continuous witli the tendon