MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. 3o6 Tlie TRANSVERSUS PERINEI arisen from the i-ainus of the ischium at each side, aud is inserted into tlie central tendinous ])oi]it of the perineum, where it is connected with the bulbo-cavernosus and sphincter ani. Occasionally the transversus peiinei is of large sizi-. and spreads out as it approaches the middle line so as to l)econic fan-shaped. The posterior fibres are continuous with those of the Fic!. 215.—iMuscles of the perineum, i. Bulbo-cavernosi; the figure rests on the coi-pus spongiosum penis. 2. Corpus cavernosum of one side. 3. Iscliio-cavernosus of one side. 4. Transversus perinei of one side. 5. Muscular triangle, through which the triangular ligament is seen. 6. Sphincter ani; its anterior extremity cut off. 7. Levator ani of the left side; the deep space between the tuberosity of tlie ischium (8) and the anus, is the ischio-rectal fossa; the same fossa is seen on the opposite side. 9. Spine of the ischium. 10. Left coccygeus muscle. The boundaries of the perineum are well exhibited in this engi-aving. muscle of the opposite side ; but tlie anterior are prolonged forward.* upon the bulb and corpus spongiosum of the urethra. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the pudic nerve. Dissection.—To dissect the compressor urethrce, the three preced- ing muscles should be removed, so as to render the glistening surface of the triangular ligament apparent. This ligament should then he carefully dissected aA\'ay, and the corpus siDongiosum penis di-\-ided through its middle, separated from the corpus cavernosum, and drawn forwards in order to put on the stretch the membranous ]ior- tion of the urethra, with which the compressor muscles are con- nected. Tlie compressor uretlirse is, however, better seen in a dissection made from within the pelvis, after having turned doAVii the bladdei' from its attachment to the os jiubis, and removed a plexus of veins together with the pelvic fascia. The COMPRESSOR URETHR.ffi (constrictor urethrpe menibra- nacese), directed transversely across the perineum above the tri- angular ligament, arises from the i-amus of the pubes and ischium, their ])oint of union, and fi'om the anterior ligament of the bladder