MUSCLES OF THE FIFTH LAYER 277 and sixth cervical vertebrae ; and. is inserted into the rough surface of the occipital bone between the two curved lines, as far as the occipital spine. The complexus is marked in the upper part of the neck by a transverse tendinous intersection. A large fasciculus of the complexus lying sujjerficially to the rest of the muscle, and remarkable for consisting of two fleshy bellies with an intermediate tendon, is usually described under the name of biventer cervicis. Considered as a separate muscle, it arises by three or four slips from tlie transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae, from the fourth to the seventh ; and is inserted into the inner j^oi'tion of the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Nerve-supply.—The gTeat occipital, and internal branches of j)Osterior divisions of the six lower cervical and five upper dorsal nerves. Fifth Layer. Semi-spinales, Rectus posticus major. Rectus posticus minor, Rectus lateralis, Obliquus inferior, Obliquus sujjerior. Dissection.—The muscles of the preceding layer are to be re- moved by dividing them transversely througli 'the middle, and turning one extremity xip-\\'ards, the other clownwards. In this way the wliole of the muscles of the fourth layer may be dissected off, and tlie remaining muscles of the spine brought into a state to be examined. Tlie SEMI-SPINALES muscles are connected with the transverse and spinous processes of the vertebr£)e, spanning one-half the verte- bral column ; hence their name, semi-spinales. The semi-spinalis dorsi arises from the transverse j^rocesses of the dorsal vertebra; from the sixth to the tenth ; and is inserted into the spinous processes of the four upper dorsal and two lower cevyi- cal vertebra). It is united below with the spinalis dorsi, and above with the semi-spinalis colli; it also sends several small slips to the longissimus dorsi. Tlie semi-spinalis colli, larger than the preceding, arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal vertebrte • and IS inserted into the spinous processes of the cervical vertebra)'from the second to the fifth. Nerve-supply.—The semi-spinales are supplied by the internal l)ranclies of tlie postei'ior divisions of the dorsal and cervical nerves Occipital Group.—This group of small muscles is intended for llie movements of tlie cranium on the atlas, and atlas on the a\is The RECTUS CAPITIS POSTICUS MAJOR arises from the spinous process ot the axis, and is inserted into the inferior curved line of the occipital bone, \