METACARPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS. 209 base of the third and fourth metacarpal bones at their point of connection. , The dorsal ligaments are strong fasciculi which pass from the second ran^^e of carpal to the metacarpal bones ; with the exception of the little finger there are two fasciculi to each bone, namely, to the index finder, one each from the trapezium and trapezoid ; to the middle finger" one each from the trapezoid and os_ magnum ; to the ring finger^ one each from the os magnum and unciform ; and to the little finger, one from the unciform. The palmar ligaments are thin fasciculi arranged according to the same' plan on the palmar surface, but the third metacarpal has three slips, one from the ridge on the trapezium, one from the os magnum, and one from the unciform. The synovial cavity is a continuation of the great synovial cavity of the two rows of carpal bones. The capsular ligament of the thumb is one of the three true capsular ligaments of the skeleton ; the other two being the shoidder and hip. The articulation has a special synovial membrane. The metacarpal bones of the four fingers are firmly connected at their bases by means of dorsal and palmar ligaments, wdiich extend transversely from one bone to the other, and by interosseous liga- ments which pass between their contiguous surfaces. Their lateral articular facets are lined by a reflection of the great synovial mem- brane of the two rows of carpal bones. Actions.—The movements of the metacarpal on the carpal bones are restricted to a slight degree of gliding motion, with the excep- tion of the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium. In the latter, the movements are flexion, extension^ adduction, obdAidion, and circumduction. 10. METACARPO-PHALANGEAL ARTICULATIONS.—The meta- carpo-phiilangeal articulation is a condyloid joint; and its ligaments four in number :— Anterior, Two lateral, Transverse. The anterior ligaments (glenoid), thick and fibro-cartilaginous, form part of the articulating surface of the joints. They are grooved on their palmar surface for the lodgment of the flexor tendons, and by their deep aspect form part of the articular surface for the head of the metacarpal bone. At each side they are continuous with the lateral ligaments. The lateral ligaments are strong narrow fasciculi, holding the bones together at each side. The transverse ligament is a strong ligamentous band passing across the heads of the metacarpal bones of the four fino-ers and connected with the anterior ligaments. ° ' The expansion of the extensor tendon over the back of the fingers takes the place and performs the oflice of a posterior ligament. Actions.—The cliief motions which this articulation admits of 0