529 MEMBEANES OF THE BEAIN. diately behind the coronal suture. The horizontal limb of this fissure corresponds to a line drawn from a point an inch and an eighth behind the external angular process to a little below the most pro- minent part of the parietal eminence ; it is covered for the middle three-fifths of its course by the upper part of the squamous suture. Fissure of Rolando.—The upper end of this fissure is situated at a point on tlie line from the nasion to the inion measuring 55.6 per cent, of the whole line, starting from the front {Hare's line). It runs dowuAvards and forwards for about 3I inches, forming an angle of 67° with the line of the sagittal suture (middle line). Its lower end is situated about half an inch behind the bifurcation of the fissure of Sylvius and close to the horizontal limb, Keid, in order to define the i^osition of the fissure of Kolando more accurately, takes a base line from the lowest part of the infiva-oi'bital margin, through the external auditory meatus to the back of the head ; he next marks out the course of the fissure of Sylvius according to the above rules ; two vertical lines are then drawn, reaching from the base line to the line of the sagittal suture, one passing tli rough the depression in front of the auditory meatiis, and the other through the posterior border of the mastoid process. A line drawn from the u^iper end of the posterior line to the i^oint where the anterior one crosses the fissure of Sylvius, marks out the course of the fissure of Eolando. The parieto-occipital fissure runs horizontally outwards from the longitudinal fissure, at a iioint about one-fifth of an inch in front of the lambda. If the line marking the horizontal part of the fissure of Sylvius is continued backwards till it reaches the sagittal suture, the posterior inch of its course Avill mark the parieto-occipital fissure. Membranes of the Brain. Dissection.—To examine the brain with its meml)ranes, the upper part of the skidl must be removed, by sawing through the external table and breakiug the internal table Avith the chisel and hammer. After the calvarium has been loosened all round, it will require a considerable degree of force to tear the bone away from the dura mater. This adhesion is particularly firm at the sutures, where the dura mater is continuous with a membranous layer in- terposed between the edges of the bones ; in other situations the connection results from numerous vessels which permeate the inner tal)le of the skull. Tlie adliesion subsisting between the dura mater and bone is greater in the young subject and in old persons than in the adult. On lieiug torn away, the internal table Avill present numerous deeply grooved and rauiified cliannels, corresjwnding with the branches of the meningeal arteries. Along the middle line will be seen a groove corresponding with tlie superior longitudinal sinus, and on either side may be frecpiently observed some small fossfe, corresponding with the Pacchionian bodies. The membranes of the brain and spinal cord are—the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and pia mater. 2 L