349 GLUTEUS MAXIMUS. The GLUTEUS MAXIMUS (yXovros, nates) is the thick, fleshy mass • t' muscle, of a trapezoid shape, which forms the convexity of the nates. In structure it is coarse, being made up of fibres collected into large fasciculi, and thes6 again into distinct muscular masses, separated by deep furrows. It arises from the posterior fourth of ilie crest of the ilium, from the rough triangular surface between the crest and superior curved line, the posterior surface of the sacrum and coccyx, and from the great sacro-ischiatic ligament. It passes iililicpiely outwards and downwards, to be inserted into the rough line leading from the trochanter major to the linea asj)era, and is continuous by means of its tendon with the fascia lata covering the I inter side of the thigh, and with the ilio-tibial band. Several bursse are situated between this muscle and subjacent parts : one upon the tuberosity of the ischium, one between its tendon and the trochanter major, and one between it and the tendon of the vastus externi;s. Relations.—By its superficial surface with a thin aponeurotic fascia, which separates it from the superficial fascia and integument, and near its insertion, with the vastus externus. By its deep surface \\ith the gluteus medius, i^yriformis, gemelli, obturator internus, j quadratus femoris, sacro-ischiatic foramina, great sacro-ischiatic liga- ment, tulterosity of the ischium, semi-membranosus, semi-tendinosus, biceps, and adduc- tor niagnus ; glu- teal vessels and nerve, ischiatic vessels and nerves, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. By its upper bor- der it overlaps the gluteus medius ; and by the loioer border forms the lower margin of tlie nates. The gluteus maximus must be turned down from its ori- gin, in order to bring the next muscles into view. Nerve - supply. —Inferior gluteal branch of thelesser ischiatic nerve. The GLUTEUS MEDIUS is placed in front of, rather than beneath, the gluteus maximus ; and is covered in by a process of the deep fascia, which is very thick and dense. It arises from the outer surface ot the ilium between the superior and middle curved lines Fig.237.—Deepmus- cles of the gluteal region, i. Ilium. 2. Sacrum. 3. Pos- terior saero - iliac ligaments. 4. Tu- berosity of the is- chium. 5. Great sacro-ischiatic ligament. 6.Lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament. 7. Tro- chanter major. 8. Gluteus minimus. 9. Pyriformis. 10. Gemellus superior. 11. Obturator in- ternus, passingout of the lesser sacvo- ischiatic foramen. 12. Gemellus infe- rior. i3.Quadratns femoris. 14. Ad- ductor magnup. 15. Vastus exter- nus. 16. Biceps. 17. Gracilis. i8. Semi-tendinosus.