TOOTH-PULP. Tlie cortical substance, or cement, forms a thin coating over the root of the tooth, from the termination of the enamel to the opening in the apex of the fang. In structure it differs little from true hone, being characterised by the presence of lacunae and canaliculi (Fig. 423, c) ; but it generally has no Haversian canals, although these also may appear in the cement in old age. It increases in thicloiess as age advances, and gives rise to those exostosed appear- ances occasionally seen on the teeth of very old persons, or in those Avho have taken much mercury. In old age the pulp cavity is often filled up and obliterated by osseous substance analogous to the cement, but bearing also some resemblance to dentine. This is called osteodeyitine; it is traversed by canals which are surrounded by concentric laminae, like the Haversian canals of bone. The tooth pulp, as stated above, is continuous vni\\ the periosteum of the alveolus or alveolo-dental membrane. On its surface is a layer of fine columnar cells which are in close contact externally with the inner surface of the dentine, and contain oval nuclei at their bases ; as they were supposed to be instrumental in the formation of that tissue, they have received the name of " odontoblasts." Some authors state that they give off processes which pass into the den- tinal tubules and become continuous with the fibres therein con- tained. Beneath these, numerous fusiform or pyramidal cells are found, many of which wedge themselves in between the odonto- blasts, while others are continuous Avith the ramified cells of the reticulum to be presently mentioned. Klein believes that it is this deeper cell stratum and not the layer of odontoblasts which sends processes into the dentinal tubules. The cells of the pulp, as well as the blood-vessels and nerves, are supported by a fine reticulum formed by ramified nucleated cells. Numerous non-medullated nerve fibres run through the pulp, some of which have been traced to the layer of odontoblasts, and it is probable that they also pass into the dentine. A dense network of capillaries occupies the outer part of the pulp. Development of the Teeth. At the time when the germs of the teeth first make their appear- ance the lower jaw consists of embryonic tissue, composed chiefly of branched cells, in which a cartilaginous rod, the cartilage of Meckel, is embedded. At this period the superior maxillary pro- cesses, formed also of embryonic tissue, have just met and united with the pre-maxillary or inter-maxillary processes. In the position of the future alveolar border an upgrowth of epithelial cells produces two narrow ridges arranged in a horse-shoe form ; the groove between these ridges (formerly described as the frimitive dental groove) is almost entirely filled up with cells wliich are actively growing and rapidly increasing in number. Tliis growth of cells takes a down- ward as well as an upward course so as to invade the tissue occupy- ing the position of the future jaw, but instead of passing vertically downwards becomes inclined inwards at its lower extremity (see Fig.