PLANTAR ARTERIES. 448 transverse portion of the artery describes a sliglit curve, having the convexity forwards ; this is the plantar arch. Branches.—Tlie branches of the external plantaj- artery are the— Muscuhir, DVt 1 ^ collateral, Articular, digital, ^ pei-forating. Posterior perforating. The muscular and articular branches are distriljuted to the muscles of the sole of the foot and to the articulations of the tarsus. The digital branches are four in number ; the first is distributed . to the outer side of the little toe ; the three others pass forward to the cleft between the toes, and divide into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the three external toes, and the outei' side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, a small branch is sent upwards from each digital artery, to inosculate vnth the dorsal interosseous branclies of the metatarsal; these are the anterior per- forating arteries. The posterior perforating are three small branches which pass upwards between the heads of the three external dorsal interos- seous muscles to inosculate with the arch formed by the metatarsal artery. Varieties in the Arteries of the Lower Extremity.—The femoral artery occasionally divides at Poupart's ligament into t\wo branches, and sometimes into three ; the former is an instance of the high division of the profunda artery ; and in the latter the Ijranches are the profunda, superficial femoral, and internal circumilex. Tlie point of origin of the profunda artery varies considerably in different subjects, being sometimes nearer to and sometimes farther from Pou]3art's ligament, but more frequently the former. The branches of the popliteal artery are very liable to variety in size ; and in all these cases the compensating principle, so constant in the vascular system, is manifested. "When the anterior til)ial is of small size, the peroneal is large ; and in place of dividing into two terminal branches at the lower third of the leg, descends to the lower part of the inter- osseous membrane, and emerges upon the front of the ankle, to supply the dorsum of the foot, or the posterior tibial and plantar arteries are large, and the external plantar is continued between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, to be distributed to the dorsal surface of the foot. Sometimes the posterior tibial artery is small and thread-like ; and the peroneal, after descending to the ankle, curves inwards to the inner malleolus, and divides into two plantar arteries. If, in this case, the jjosterior tibial be sufficiently large to reach the ankle, it inosculates with the peroneal previously to the division of the latter. The internal plantar artery sometimes takes the distribution of the external plantar, which is short, and diminutive, and the latter not unfrequently replaces a deficient dorsalis pedis.