ORGAN OF VISION. 626 generally thrown into folds or ridges when the pujiil is moderately ■ dilated. On its anterior surface the fibres of the iris have mingled with them some elastic fibres continuous with those of the memlirane of Descemet, and are so arranged as to produce a festooned appearance. These festoons are very distinct in the eye of the ox and sheep; they form the ligamentum pectinatum. The epithelial cells of the membrane of Descemet are continued over the anterior surface of the iris. The blood-vessels of the iris are numerous, and their outer coat is intimately connected with the fibrous stroma; the arteries are derived from the long and anterior ciliary arteries, and from the circulus iridis major of the ciliary processes. In the foetus a delicate vascidar membrane closes in the pupil (mem- hrana pupillaris) ; it disappears about the seventh or eighth month. The nerves come from the ciliary branches of the lenticular ganglion, and from the long ciliary branch of the nasal. After forming a plexus near the ciliary margin of the iris, they divide into twigs which are distributed to the muscular fibres and anterior sur- face. The ciliary pro- cesses are formed by the plication of the anterior part of the ciliary region of the choroid. They may be seen in two ways, either by removing the iris from its attach- ment to the choroid, when a front Adew of the jjrocesses will be obtained, or by making a trans- verse section through the globe from behind, as in Fig. 360.—Ophthalmoscopic view of the fundus of the eye. A. Optic disc, b, b. Choroidal ring, c, c. Retinal arteries. d, d. Retinal veins. (7. Arteria centralis retinse dividing. h. Venous radicles uniting to form a trunk, n. Inner side. t. Outer aide. L. Physiological cup and lamina cribrosa. when they may be examined of the eye, Fig. 359. They consist of about eighty triangular folds, about one-third of which are smaller than the rest, and are interspersed at irregular intervals. The summits of the lai-ger processes have upon them smaller, secondary processes, varying greatly in their number, size,