MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 241 The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS AL^QUE NASI is a thin triangular muscle ; it arises from the upper part of the nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, and, becoming broader as it descends, is inserted by two portions, one into the ala of the nose, the other into the orbicularis oris and upper lip. , . , ■ Relations.—By its superficial surface with the orbicularis palpe- brarum, facial artery, and integument. By its deep surface with the superior maxillary bone, musculus anomalus, compressor nasi, dilatator naris, and alar cartilage. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. The LEVATOR LABII SUPERIORIS PROPRIUS is a thin quad- rilateral muscle; it arises from the lower border of the orbit, immediately above the infraorbital foramen, and passing obliquely downwards and inwards, is inserted into the integument of the upper lip, its deep fibres being blended with those of the orbicularis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the lower segment of the orljicularis palpebrarum, facial artery, and integument. By its deep surface with the compressor nasi, levator anguli oris, orbicularis oris, and infraorbital artery and nerve. ■ Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. The LEVATOR ANGULI ORIS arises from the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, and passes obliquely downwards and outwards to be inserted into the angle of the mouth ; its fibres being continued into the orbicularis and depressor anguli oris. Relations.^—By its superficial surface with the levator labii sui)erioris proprius, branches of the infraorbital artery and nerve, and inferiorly with the integument. By its deep surface with the superior maxillary bone and buccinator muscle. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. The ZYGOMATIC muscles are two slender fasciculi of fibres which arise from the malar bone, and are inserted into the upper lip. Tlie zygomaticus major descends to the angle of the mouth, and is continuous with the inferior segment of the orbicularis, depressor anguli oris, and risorius Santorini. The zygomaticus minor, lying in front of the major, becomes connected witli the outer border of the levator labii superioris proprius, and is attached to the integument of the upper lip. This muscle is in reality only a detached slip of the orbicularis palpebrarum. Relations.—The zygomaticus major is in relation by its super- ficial surface with the lower segment of the orbicularis j^alpeljraruni above, and with the fat of the cheek and integument for the rest of its extent. By its deep surface with the malar bone, masseter, buccinator, and facial vessels. Nerve-supply.—Infraorbital branch of facial. Actions.—The orbicularis oris produces the direct closure of the lips by means of its continuity, at the angles of the mouth, with the fibres of the buccinator. When acting singly in the forcible closure of the mouth, the integument is thrown into wrinkles, in consequence of its firm connection with the surface of the muscle ; its naso-labial 9