39 NERVE TERMINATIONS. each other, hut remain separated hj their medullary and primitive sheaths. In the nervous centres, however, in the peripheral dis- triluitioii of the nerves, and, in rare instances, in their trunks, the fibres themselves branch and form communications, so as to pro- duce a true anastomosis. Nerve tubules by their medullary sheath are insulated throughout their whole course. Plexus.—A plexus is an intricate intercommunication between the funiculi of adjacent nerves. Origin.—The apparent origin of a nerve is where it Ijecomea connected with the surface of a nerve centre. The real origin is where its fibres terminate in the substance of its nerve centre- often far away from where it plunges into the nerve surface. It is very difiicult to trace accurately the deeper connections of the ex- trenaties of nerve fibres, Init as in many instances they have been observed to be directly connected with multii)olar cells, the opinion is becoming general that all nerve fibres have a central connection Avith a nerve cell. NERVE TERMINATIONS.—Nerve fibres, whether of the inedul- lated or non-inedullated variety, when they approach their termi- nation, freely branch, and form numerous communications among themseh'es, the medullated fibres lose their medullary sheath, and Ijecome indistinguishable from the non-medullated kind. The axis cylinder takes part in the branching of the fibres, and becomes H]jlit u]i into very fine threads, consisting of only a few elementary fil)rils. The primitive sheath is continued as a covering to the divided fibres, for some distance after they ha^^e lost their medullary sheath, but at length becomes also lost; and the fine pale fil^rils Avhich form the termination of the nerve may then be traced as faint lines having a wavy course, and marked at short intervals by irregular varicosities. Sensory or afferent nerves and motor or efferent nerves have very dift'erent modes of termination, and require therefore a separate description. Sensory Nerve Endings.—Sensory nerves terminate either in ei)ithelial cells, as in the cornea and skin, or by special terminal organs, some of which fall to l)e described here, while others will come under consideration in the description of the organs of sense to Avhich they belong. We shall in this place sjDeak only of the Facinian corpuscles, and the end bulbs of Krause, leaving the rods and cones of the retina, the cells of Oorti and acoustic filaments oi the interna] ear, the taste buds of the tongue, the olfactory cells of the nose, and the tactile corfiLscles of the skin to be discussed in the description of the organs in which they are found. The Pacinian or Vater's Corpuscles are small oval or pyriform masses, varying in size from half a line to three lines in length, situated on the peripheral extremities of the nerve fibres, chiefly in the palm of the hand and sole of the foot, but also found in other parts, as the })enis and clitoris, bulb of the urethra, on the intercostal nerves, branches of the sacral plexus, on the cutaneous nerves of the