771 PENIS. opens on the mncons membrane of tlie urethra, by the side of or within the aperture of the sinus pocularis. The vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia are j)artly covered by a muscular layer, compressor vesicuke et ductus seminalis (Ellis) ; which is brought into view on raising the recto-vesical fascia. This muscular layer consists of transverse and longitudinal fibres, the transverse fibres Ijeing tlie most superficial, and continuous with the posterior border of the prostate gland ; the longit udinal fibres lying in contact with the vesiculte and vasa deferentia. In structure the vesiculse seminales are composed of three coats : external, a thin fibrous membrane, made up of condensed areolar tissue ; middle, a muscular coat, consisting of smooth muscular fibres arranged in two layers, longitudinal and circular ; and inter- nal, a thin mucous membrane, vascular, marked by a delicate reticulation of ridges and alveoli, and coated with a squamous epi- thelium of cells containing yellowish pigment granules. Opening on to the surface of the mucous membrane are a large number of tubular glands, which give to its surface a brownish-yellow colour. The vesiciilce are covered externally and their convolutions hold to- gether by a thin meml)rane of areolar tissue, and they are further I invested by the recto-vesical fascia, and the muscular stratum already I described. MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The organs of generation in the male are—the penis and testicles, with their ajDpendages. PENIS. T]ie penis is divisible into a body, root, and extremity. The , body is surrounded by a thin integument, which is remarkable for the looseness of its connection with the deeper parts of the organ, and for containing no adipose tissue. The root is broad, and firmly adherent to the rami of the pubes and ischium by means of two . strong processes, the crura, and connected to the symphysis pubis by an elastic fibrous membrane, the suspensory ligament. The extremity or glans penis resembles an obtuse cone, somewhat com- I jjressed from above downwards, and of a deeper red colour than the .surrounding skin. At its apex is a small vertical slit, the meatus urinarius, which is bounded hj two, more or less protuberant, labia ; and, extending backwards from the meatus, a grooved raj)he, to which a loose fold of nnicous membrane, the frsenum prseputii, is attached. Over the surface of the glans the integument takes on the characters of mucous membrane ; it is very intimately adherent to the tissue beneath it, is very vascular, and is covered with laro-e papillae, some of which contain vascular tufts and others nerve endings. Tlie base of the glans is marked by a projecting collar the corona glandis, in the groove beneath wliich {fossa glandis) are , placed tlie openings of numerous glands, the glandulae odoriferse