PEiEVEKTEBKAL MUSCLES. 268 tubercles of tlie transverse processes of all tlie cervical vertebrae excepting the first. Nerve-supply.—Branches of the lowei' cervical nerves. The SCALENUS POSTICUS, of small size, arises by a thin tendon from the second rib between its tubercle and angle, and divides superiorly into two or three tendons, which are inserted into the posterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lower cervical vertebrce. Nerve-supply.—Branches from the Inacliial and cervical plexus. The LONGUS COLLI is a long and fiat muscle, consisting of three portions, two oblique and one vertical. The superior oblique por- tion arises from the anterior tubercle of the atlas, and is inserted into the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the thii-d, fourth, and fifth cervical vertebra3. The inferior oblique portion arises from the transverse processes of the fifth and sixth cervical vertebrae, and passes down the neck to be inserted into the bodies of the two or three ujDiDer dorsal vertel3r8e. The vertical portion arises from tire bodies of the second, third, and fourth cervical vertebra;, and is inserted into the bodies of tlie three lower cervical and three upper dorsal vertebrte. In general terms, the muscle is attached to the bodies and trans- verse processes of the six superior cervical vertebrae above, and to the bodies of the last three cervical and first three dorsal below. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the pharynx, oesophagus ; sheath of the common carotid, internal jugular vein and pneumo- gastric nerve ; sympathetic nerve, inferior laryngeal ner\'e, and in- ferior thyroid artery. By its posterior surface it rests on the cervical and upper dorsal vertebrae. Nerve-supply.—Brachial plexus. Actions.—The rectus anticus major and minor preserve the equi- librium of the head upon the atlas ; and acting with the longus colli, flex and rotate the head and the cervical portion of the vertel)ral coliimn. The scaleni muscles are flexors of the ^'ertebral column ; and, acting from above, fix the first and second ribs for the inspira- tory muscles, and themselves act as muscles of forced inspiration. Eighth Group.—Muscles of the Larynx. These muscles are described with the anatomy of the larynx, in Part VII. MUSCLES AND FASCI/E OF THE TRUNK. The nuiscles of the trunk may l)e subdivided into four natural groups, viz. :— 1. Muscles of the l)ack. 2. Muscles of the thorax. 3. Muscles of the abdomen. 4. Muscles of the perinajum.