644 ORGAN OF HEARING. are channelled in the substance of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone, and is situated between the cavity of the tympanum and the ineatus auditorius internus. It is divided into three unequal portions ; these are the— Vestibule, Semicircular canals. Cochlea. The vestibule is the central part of the osseous labyrinth ; it i.s irregularly ovoid in shape, and a little flattened from without in- wards. In front it communicates with the cochlea, and behinil with the semicircular canals ; its outer wall separates it from tlie cavity of the tympanum, and its inner wall corresponds to llie bottom of the meatus auditorius internus. In the outer wall there is seen the reniform opening of the fen- estra ovalis, the margin of which presents a prominent ling towards the vestibule ; it is closed in the recent state by the foot of tlie stapes and its annular ligament, as well as Ijy the lining memljraue of the labyrinth and a special, membrane (membrana secundaria). In the anterior part of the inner wall is a circular dejiression which corresponds to the posterior segment of the cul-de-sac of the internal meatus ; it is called fovea hemispherica, and is pierc i d by a cluster of openings {macula crihrosa) through "which pass fila- ments of the vestibular branch of the auditory nerve, and twigs of the auditory artery. Behind this is a small ridge {crista vcst!- buli), and the commencement of a small canal called the aqim- ductus vestibuli, containing a tubular membranous sheath and a small vein. In the roof is another depression of oval form called/overt hemi- elliptica; it is separated from the fovea liemispherica by a sliglit ridge. Posteriorly, the five openings of the three semicircular canals are observed, the oblique and perpendicular canals joining by one ex- tremity and so entering by a common opening. In front the vestibule opens into the cochlea by means of a wiili', funnel-shaped opening, called a'pertura scala; vestihulce. " The openings of the vestibule may be.arranged, like those of tlie tympanum, into large and small. " The large openings are seven' in number :— Fenestra ovalis, Apertura scalsB vestibuli,; u;;ui ij;t^iiji , Eive openings of the semicircular daaials. The small openings ^ ^^^j^^r^^y^ Aqutcductus, vestibuli, j . ' 'Openings for small arteries',' ' Openings for filaments of th^ auflitoiy nejTe'. The SEMICIRCULAR CANALS are three bony jjassages com- municating with the vestibule, into ^-hiolF'fll^'opdn^Hj^Tjbth tlieir