LIVER. 17 44 from the commencement of the fissure foi' tlie vena cava. In some persons this hjbe is well m;ul'ed, in others it is small and ill-definerl. Position of the Liver in relation to the Abdominal and Thoracic Wall.—The up]jer convex surface reaches as high as tht^ level of the fifth right chondro-sternal articulation ; the lowei- border corresponds pretty accurately to the inferior mai'gin of the cartilages of the 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th ribs on the right side. The left lobe extends to about an inch to the left of the middle line, and lies against the anterior wall of the abdomen, its lower border bei]ig indicated by a line drawn from the ninth right to the eighth left costal cartilage. The gall-bladder has its fundus at the outer border of the rectus muscle, under the ninth right costal cartilage. Vessels and Nerves.—The vessels entering into the structure of the liver are also^(;e in number ; they are the— Hepatic artery. Hepatic veins, Lymphatics. Portal vein. Hepatic ducts. The hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct enter the liver together at the transverse fissure, and ramify through portal canals to every part of the organ ; so that their general direction is from below upwards, and from the centre towards the circumference. The hepatic veins commence at the circumference, and proceed from before backwards, to open into the vena cava at the posterior border of the liver. The portal vein, hepatic artery, and hepatic duct are enveloped in a loose areolar tissue, the cajDSule of Glisson, which permits them to contract upon themselves when emptied of their contents ; the hepatic veins, on the contrary, are closely adherent by their walls to the substance of the liver in which they run, and are unable to contract. ' The former will consequently be found in any section more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct, and the latter widely open and solitary. The lymphatics of the liver are described in the section dedicated to those vessels. The nerves of the liver are derived from the sisinal and symi)a- thetic system ; the former proceed from the right phrenic and right Ijneumogastric nerve, the latter from the hepatic plexus. The liver is composed of lobules, of areolar tissue which connects them together, of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves, and is enclosed and retained in its situation by the peritoneum. The serous coat, formed by the peritoneum, covers tlie whole surface of the liver, excepting' a ti-iangular area situated near the falciform ligaments. This coat is inseparable from the fibi-ous coat, or Glisson's capsule. The lohules are small granular bodies which vary in size from Minute Anatomy of the Liver.