OS CALCIS. TIxe superior surface is convex, and presents a large quadrilateral and smootli facet, somewhat broader in front than beliind, to articulate witli the tibia. The inferior surface is concave, and divided by a deep and rougli groove (sulcus tali), which lodges a strong interosseous ligament, into two facets—the posterior large and quadrangular, the anterior smaller and elliptical—which articulate Avith the os calcis. The internal border, ilat and uneven, is mai-ked by a pyriforni arti- cular surface, limited to the iipper half of this border, for the inner malleolus. The external presents a large triangulai- articular facet, extending the whole depth of the l)order, for the external malleolus, and is rough and concave in front. The anterior extremity presents a rounded head., encircled by a constriction somewhat resem])ling a neck ; the 2^osterior extremity is narrow, and mai'ked by a deep groove for tlie tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. Recognition.^—Hold the astragalus with the Ijroad convex ar- ticular sui'face upwards, and rounded head forwards ; the large triangular lateral articular surface will point to the side to which the bone lielongs. Articulations.—With four bones : tibia, fibula, os calcis, and scaphoid. OS CALCIS.—This bone may be known by its large size and oblong figure, hy tlie massi\'e ])ortion which forms the heel, and by two articular surfaces, separated by a broad groove, upon its upper side. The OS calcis is divisible into four surfaces, superior, inferior, external, and internal; and two extremities, anterior and 1 )Osterior. The superior stirface is convex behind and irregu- larly concave in front, where it jiresents two and sometimes tliree articular facets, diA'ided by a broad and shallow groove (sulcus calcanei), for the inter- osseous ligament. Theinferior .mrface is convex and rough, and l:)ounded posteriorly by the two inferior tuberosities, of which the internal is broad and large, the external smaller and prominent. The external surface is convex and subcu- taneous, and is often marked towards its anterior third by two grooves, separated by a tubercle, for the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis. The internal surface is concave and grooved for the tendons and vessels Fig. 145. — Dorsal surface of the left foot. I. Astraga- lus ; its superior quadrilateral arti- cular surface. 2. Head of tlie astra- galus which arti- culates with (4) the scaphoid bone. 3. Os calcis. 4. Scaphoid bone. 5. Internal cunei- Ibi'm bone. 6. Middle cuneiform bone. 7. External ciuieiform bone. 8. Cuboid bone. 9. Metatarsal bones of the first and second toes. 10. First phalanx nf the great toe. 11. Second phalanx of the great toe. 12. First phalanx of the second toe. 13. Second pha- lanx. 14. Third phalanx. s