229 CEANIAL GROUP OF MUSCLES. The Muscles and Fascia may be arranged in conformity with the general division of the body into—i. Those of the head and neck, 2. Those of the trunk. 3. Those of the npper extremity. 4. Tliose of the lower extremity. MUSCLES AND FASCIiE OF THE HEAD AND NECK. These admit of subdivision into those of the liead and face, and those of the neck. Muscles of the Head and i^'ace.—These muscles may l)e divided into groups corresponding witli the natural regions of the head and face ; the groups are eight in number, namely :— 1. Cranial groiip. 5. Nasal grouj). 2. Orbital group. 6. Superior lalnargi'oup. 3. Auricular group. 7. Inferior labial group. 4. Ocular group. 8. Maxillary group. I. Cranial Group.—Occipito-frontalis. Dissection.—The occipito-frontalis is to be dissected by making a longitudinal incision along the vertex of the head, from tlie root of the nose to tlie external occipital protuberance, and a second incision along the forehead and around the side of tlie head, to join the two extremities of the preceding. Dissect the integument and su])erficial fascia carefully outwards, beginning at tlie anterior angle of the tiajj, wliere the muscular fibres are thickest, and remove it altogether. Tliis dissection requires care ; for tlie muscle is A^ery thin, and with- out attention would be raised with the integument. Fascia.^—The superficial fascia forms a firm, dense layer, which is closely connected witli the integument and the surface of the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis ; behind it becomes continuous with the superficial fascia of the neck, and laterally it passes over tlie temporal aponeurosis, and may be traced nearly as far as the zygoma. It contains lietween its layers the muscles of the auricle, and the superficial vessels and nerves. There is no deep fascia on the face or head, nor is it required ; for here the muscles are closely applied against the bones, upon which they depend for support, whilst in the extremities the support is derived from the dense layer of fascia by which they are invested, and whicli forms for each muscle a distinct slieath. Tlie OCCIPITO-FRONTALIS is a broad musculo-aponeurotic layer, whicli covers the whole side of the vertex of tlie skull, from the occiput to the eyebrow. It consists of two fleshy bellies and an in- tervening tendinous aponeurosis. The occipital portion arises from the outer two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occipital bone, and from tlie mastoid portion of tlie temporal; its fibres pass upwards to be inserted into the posterior margin of the apo- neurosis. The frontal portion is thinner and ])aler than the occi- pital, but covers a larger extent of surface ; its fibres are continuous