3 KARYOKINESIS. amajboid protoplasm. (3.) Tlie protoplasm is able to wrap itself around a foreign particle of matter with which it is brought in con- tact, and again to withdraw from it: this is called a movement of in- tussusception. The nutrition of protoplasm consists in its taking up material from without and converting it into substance like itself ; upon this selective and constructive j)ower depends the development and growth of all organised bodies, whether animal or vegetable. Tlie nihdeus consists of a small spherical or oval body embedded in the protoplasm, and generally surrounded by a definite mem- brane. The nuclear substance is divisible into a nuclear fluid and a nucleoylasm or miclear network. The fluid does not take on stain readily, and hence has been named achromatin, while the network, from its affinity for the stain, has been called chromatin or chromo- ])lasm. The nuclear network sometimes contains one or more granules or globules, called nucleoli, situated at the intersections of the fibres. The multiplication of protoplasmic masses, or cell-multiplica- tion, takes -place by direct or indirect division. Direct Division, or Karyostenosis, consists in the division of the nucleus without any changes taking place in its structure, followed by the division of the protoplasm. This was formerly supposed to be the common mode of cell - division, but recent investigation shows that neither in animal nor vege- table cells is direct cell-division common. Indirect Division, wherein the division of the cell is preceded by a series of complex changes in the nuclear network. These, briefiy stated, are as fol- lows :— (i.) The nxicleus becomes enlarged, and the chromo- plasm, which in the rest- ing nucleus forms a net- iS IZZT f'T^t'^ t-Vicws of various stages of karyokinesi. mto a number of fine fila- a. Resting nucleus. 6. and c. Varieties of con- mentS, and these become volution, a. Wreath or spirem. e. and f. Aster convoluted so as to form ^ ^^"^ ^-^^^"''itovial division. Diasterstage. a ",s/cem" (Fig. 4, c). (2.) A series of fibrils appears in the achromatic part of the nucleus, arranged in the form of a spindle ^tlie achromatic spindle); these meet at each pole of the nucleus, and a Pig. 3.—Direct cell-division or karyostenosis. a. Fully formed cell. b.,Division of nucleus and cell. c. Divi- .sion of nucleus and cell substance complete, d. Forma- tion of two new cells. or Karyokinesis, or Mitosis, is a process