572 BEACH IAL PLEXUS. and bracliialis anticus in the vipper arm, and the integument of the outer side of the forearm as far as the wrist and hand. It also gives a branch to the elbow-joint, and another which accompanies the nutrient artery to the interior of the humerus. The INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE, one of the internal and smaller branches of the brachial plexus, arises from the plexus in common with the ulnar and internal head of the median, and pasM-,s down the inner side of the arm in company with the basilic vein, giving off several cutaneous filaments in its course. At about the middle of the upper arm it pierces the deep fascia by the side of the basilic vein and divides into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior branch, the larger of the two, divides into seA'eral branches which pass in front of, and sometimes behind the median basilic vein at the bend of the elbow, and descend in the course of the palmaris longus muscle to the wrist, distributing filaments to the integument in their- course and communicating with the anterior branch of the musculo-cutaneous on the outer side, and its own internal branch on the inner side of the forearm. The posttr 'u r branch sends oft' several twigs to tlie integument over the inner con- dyle and olecranon, passes behind the inner condyle, and descenrls the forearm in the course of the ulnar vein as far as the wrist, sup- plying the integument of the imier side of the forearm, and com- municating with the external branch of the same nerve in front, and the dorsal branch of the ulnar nerve at the wrist. The LESSER INTERNAL CUTANEOUS NERVE, or nerve of Wrisberg, the smallest of the brachial nerves, arises with the preceding from the inner cord of the plexus, and issuing from 1 be- neath the axillary vein descends the inner side of the arm, to the middle of its posterior aspect, where it pierces the fascia and is dis- tributed to the integument of the lower third of the upper arm as far as the olecranon. While in the axilla, the nerve of Wrislx-rg communicates with the intercosto-humeral nerve, and sometimes its place is taken by the latter. It also communicates with the postei im branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. The MEDIAN NERVE, named from its median position in the arm and forearm, arises by two heads which proceed from the outer and inner cord of the plexus and eml^race the axillary artery. The nerve lies at first to the outer side of the brachial artery, but crosses it in the middle, sometimes in front and sometimes behind, and getting to its inner side descends to the bend of the elbow. It next passes - between tlie two heads of the pronator radii teres and beneath the flexor sublimis digitorum, and runs down the middle of the forearm, lying between the latter muscle and the flexor profundus to the wrist. It then dips beneath the annular ligament and enters the palm of the hand. Just above the wrist it is superficial, lying be- tween the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and flexor sublimis dio'itorum. In the foreaim the nerve is accompanied by a small branch of the anterior interosseous artery. The branches of the median nerve are—