UTERUS. 790 The muscularis vrucoste forms the greater iparl of the tliickiie.ss of the uterine wall; the hhrem form concentric rings in the fundus, round the opeinngs of the Fallopian tubes, and in the cervix foriu the sphincters of the external and internal os uteri. In the cervix uteri the mucous membrane is somewhat thicker than in the fundus, and on the anterior and posterio]- surface of its canal is disposefl iii folds, plicae palmatae, which have received the name of arbor vitae uterina. In the lower part of the cervix, moreover, are found tili- form pa])illa3, invested by a ciliated epithelium. The mucous glands of the uterus, or uterine glanda, are minute follicles corresponding in length with the thickness of the mucous membrane, very numerous, sometimes simple, sometimes bifid, and sometimes spirally twisted. Their structure reseni1)les other mucous glands, namely, a Ijasement membrane, an epithelium of prismatic cells, with their broad bases and nuclei towards the basement mem- brane, and their narrow ends towards the lumen of the gland. The cells near the mouth of the follicle are surmounted by cilia, the deeper ones being devoid of them. The glands become much en- larged during pregnancy. In the cervix uteri, between the plicae palmatte, are found other mucous follicles which secrete the peculiar transparent mucus of that region. It is these follicles in an imper- forate state which constitute the small transparent vesicles termed ovula Nabothi, seen in the canal of the cervix around the os uteri, and sometimes in its cavity. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the uterus are—the uterine from the internal iliac, and the ovarian from the aorta ; they ramify through the muscidar and mucous coat, forming a plexus of larger vessels in the deep portion of the latter, and of smaller vessels in its su])erficial poi'tion ; from the smaller vessels are given off the capil- laries, which constitute a fine plexus around the glands and a coarse plexus at the surface, the l:)lood from the latter passing into the veins. The veins take the course of the arteries, and terminate in the venous plexus situated on each side of the body of the uterus. In the im- pregnated womb, the veins are so much dilated as to deserve the name of sinuses; they .are thin in structure, and devoid of valves, and their great number in the muscular coat gives a spongy appear- ance to the walls of the jji'egnant uterus. The lymphatics are ]iumerous, the deep commencing in the mucous membrane, the su])erficial taking their course in the subserous tissue ; they follow the direction of the blood-vessels, and terminate in the pelvic and lumbar glands. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric and spermatic plexuses, and from the sacral plexus. They fornr a very elaborate plexus, in the midst of which numerous ganglia are found. Of these latter the chief are—one, called the hypogastric or cervical ganglion, which is situated at the side of the cervix just behind the uretei-; another, sjyermatic ganglion, which supplies the fundus uteri ; and a number of smaller ones, called posterior and anterior subperi- tonectl, vesical, and vaginal ganglia.