LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. with a coiiiplete interarticular cartilage, and, consequently, with two synovial membranes ; they are—the sterno-clavicular, acromio- clavicular, and the articulation of the ulna with the cuneiform bone. The interai'ticular fibro-cartilages of the knee-joint are i)artia], and thei'e is but one synovial membrane. The articulations of the heads of tlie ribs with the vertebrae have two synovial membranes separated by an interarticular ligament without tibro-cartilage. Connected with the lower jaw, though not with the joint, is the stylo-maxillary ligament, a process of the deep cervical fascia extended l^etween the i)oint of the styloid process and the angle of the jaw. It is attaclied to the jaw Ijetween the insertions of the masseter and internal pterygoid muscle ; it separates tlie parotid from the submaxillary gland, and gives attachment to some fibres of the stylo-glossus muscle. Actions.^—The movements of the lower jaw are—dejyression, by which the mouth is opened ; elevation, by which it is closed ; a /or- ivard and backivard movement ; and a movement from side to side. In the movement of depression the interarticular cartilage glides for- ward on the eminentia articulaiis, carrying with it the condyle. In elevation the fibro-cartilage and condyle are returned to their original position. forward and backward movement is a gliding of the libro-cartilage on the eminentia articularis in the antero-posterior direction ; and the movement from side to side, in the lateral direc- tion. The articulation between the condyle and fibro-cartilage forms a true ginglymus or hinge-joint, that between the fibro-cartilage and eminentia articularis an arthrodial or gliding joint. The arteries of the temporo-maxillary joint are derived from the posterior auricular, anterior tympanic of internal maxillary, inferior or ascending palatine of facial, temporal, and nuddle meningeal. The nerves are chiefly derived from the auriculo-temj)oral, but some filaments also come from the masseteric branch of inferior maxillarv. 6. ARTICULATION OF THE RIBS WITH THE VERTEBR^ffi.— The ligaments of these articulations are remarkaljle for their strength, l^eing in fact so strong as to render dislocation impossible ; the neck of the rib must break before displacement could occur : they are divisible into two groups :—(i) Those connecting the head of the rib with the bodies of the vertebrae ; and (2) Those connecting the yieck and tubercle of the rib with the transverse processes. ist Group. 2nd Groiip. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate. Anterior costo-transverse, Capsular, Middle costo-transverse, Interarticular ligament. Posterior costo-ti-ansverse. Two synovial membranes. The anterior costo-vertebral- or stellate ligament (costo- central. Fig. 147) consists of three short bands of ligamentous fibres which radiate from tlie anterior part of the head of the rib. The superior band passes upwards to be attached to t,he vertebra above ;