396 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. liead, and to the pericranium. At the supraorhital foramen it sends a branch inwards to the diploci. The ethmoidal arteries posterior and anterior pass througli the internal orbital foramina, and arc distributed to the falx cereljri and to the ethmoidal cells and nasal fossae. The latter accompanies tlic nasal nerve, and sends a branch to the frontal sinus. The Ijrancht^ distributed to the dura mater are called anterior vieningeal. The palpebral arteries superior and inferior are given off from the ophthalmic, near the inner angle of the orbit; they encircle the eyelids, forming a supeiior and an inferior arch near the borders of the lids, between the orbicularis palpebrarum and tarsal cartilage. At the outer angle of the eyelids, the superior palpeliral inosculates with the^.orbital branch of the temporal artery. The inferior jjal- pebral artery sends a branch to the caruncula lachrymaUs and lachrymal sac. The frontal artery, one of the terminal branches of the ophthal- mic, emerges from the orbit at its inner angle, and ascends along tlic middle of the forehead. It is distributed to the integument, muscle.-, and pericranium, and anastomoses Avith the supraorbital artery. The nasal artery, the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, passes out of the orbit above the tendo oculi, and diAddes into two branches ; one of which inosculates with the angular artery, while the other, dorsalis nasi, runs along the ridge of the nose, and is dis- tributed to the integument of that organ. The nasal artery sends a small branch to the lachrymal sac. The muscular branches, usually two in number, sujjerior and inferior, supply the muscles of the orbit; and at the anterior part o! the globe of the eye give off the anterior ciliary arteries, which pierce the sclerotic near its margin of connection with the cornea, and are distributed to the iris. The ciliary arteries are divisible into three groups, short, long, and anterior. The short ciliary, from ten to fifteen in number, pierce the sclerotic around the entrance to the optic nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary, two in numbei', pierce the sclerotic at opposite sides of the globe of the eye, and pass forwards between it and the choroid to the iris. They form an arterial circle around the circumference of the iris by inosculat- ing with each other, and from this circle branches are given off which ramify in the substance of the iris, and form a second circle around the pupil. The arteria centralis retinae pierces the optic nerve obliquely, about a quarter of an inch from the globe of the eye, and passes forwards in the centre of its cylinder to the retina, where it divides into branches, which ramify in the inner layer of that membrane. It supplies the retina and hyaloid membrane. In the foetus a small branch of this artery is seen to run through the centre of the vitreous humour to the posterior surface of the lens ; it is, however, com- monly absent in the adult.