262 MUSCLES OF THE PHAEYNX. The third sjjace forms the interval between tlie middle and iuferioi' constrictors ; it corresponds to the lateral part of the thyroid-hyoid membrane, and transmits the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. Maxillo-Pharyngeal Space.—Between the side of the pharynx and ramus of the lower jaw is a triangular interval, the maxillo- pharyngeal space, which is bounded at the injier side hy the supe- rior constrictor muscle ; at the outer side by the internal pterygoid muscle ; and hehind by the rectus anticus major and vertelwal column. In this space are situated the internal carotid artery, ascending pharyngeal artery, internal jugular vein, glosso-pharyn- geal, iDneumogastric, spinal accessory, sympathetic, and hypoglossal nerves. The STYLO-PHARYNGEUS is a long and slender muscle arising from the inner side of the l^ase of the styloid process; it descends between the superior and middle constrictor muscles, and spreads out beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx ; it is inserted partly into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage and partly into the internal face of the inferior constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface with the stylo-glossus muscle, external carotid artery, parotid gland, and middle constrictor. By its internal surface with the internal carotid artery, internal jugular vein, superior constrictor, palato-pharyngeus, and mucous membrane. Along its lower border is seen the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, which crosses it opposite the root of the tongue, to pass between the superior and middle constrictor and behind the hyo-glossus. Nerve-supply.—Glosso-j)haryngeal nerve. Associated in function with the preceding is a small muscle, not always present, the salpingo-pharyngeus (aaXTny^, a tube), which arises from the lower border of the Eustachian tube near its apertm-e, and passes down upon the inner surface of the side of the phar}Tix, where it becomes united with the palato-pharyngeus. The palato-pharyngeus is described mth the muscles of the soft palate. Actions.—The three constrictor muscles are important agents in deglutition ; they contract upon the morsel of food as soon as it is received by the pharynx, and convey it downwards into the oeso- phagus. Constriction of the pharynx takes place by the anterior wall of the cavity being di'awn backwards, and at the same time there is a slight upward movement of the hyoid bone and larynx in con- sequence of the oblique direction of most of the fibres of the middle and inferior constrictors. The stylo-pharyngei draw the pharynx upwards, and widen it laterally. The palato-pharyngei also draw it upwards, and with the aid of the uvula close the opening of the fauces. The salpingo-pharyngei are elevators of the upper part of the pharynx. A more complete description of the mechanism of deglutition will be given alter the palate muscles have been described.