ARTICULATIONS. 179 bones of the cranium during growth. A variation in the formation of the serrated suture is seen in the coronal suture, where the edge of the bone is bevelled at the expense of tlie inner table of the one bone, and of the outer table of the other at one part; and in another part'these conditions are reversed. This condition is sometimes described under the name of sutura limbosa. The harmonia suture {(Ipelv, to adapt) is the simple apposition of contiguous surfaces, the surfaces being more or less rough. This suture is seen in the con- nection between the superior maxillary bones, or of the palate pro- cesses of the palate bone Avith each other. The squamous suture is formed by the overlapping of the lower border of the parietal bone, by the thin scale-like edge of the squamous portion of the temporal. Schindylesis {a-xtv^vXTjais, a fissure) is the reception of one bone into a sheath or fissure of another, as occurs in the articulation of the rostrum of the sphenoid with the vomer, or of the latter a\ ith the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid, and with the nasal crest of the superior maxillary and palate bones. Gomphosis (yo/xc^oy, a nail) is expressive of a union similar to that of a peg driven into a socket, and is used to describe the articulation of the teeth with the ah'eoli of the upper and lower jaws. The term is, however, misleading, as the teeth are not held in place simply by their impact, but by the fibrous tissue forming the alveolo-dental membrane. AMPHI-ARTHROSIS (d/i0t, both, apdpcoo-ts) is a joint intermediate in aptitude for motion l^etween the immovable synarthrosis and the movable diarthrosis. Two forms of it are described, namely, those where the union takes place entirely by means of fibro-cartilage, withoxit any joint cavity, and those Avhere some part of the joint is formed by surfaces coated with articular cartilage, between which tliere is a small synovial cavity. Examples of the first are seen in the union between the bodies of the vertebrcc, the sacrum with tlie coccyx, and the pieces of the sternum ; and of the second, tlie sacro- iliac and pubic symphyses (avv (j)vdv, to grow together). DIARTHROSIS (Sta,'through, apepaais) is the movable articula- tion which constitutes by far the greater number of the joints of tlie body. The degree of motion in this class has given rise to a subdi\ ision into five genera : Arthrodia, Ginglymus, Trochoides, Condylarthrosis, and Enarthrosis. Arthrodia is the movable joint in which the extent of motion is slight and limited, as in the articulations of the clavicle, ril)s, articular processes of the vertebras, axis with the atlas, radius with the ulna, fibula with the tibia, carpal and metacarpal, tarsal and metatarsal bones. It is formed by the apposition of two nearly plane articular surfaces. The movement is very limited, but by l)ringing together a number of small bones articulated in this way, gi-eat pliability is obtained, as may be observed in the carpus. Ginglymus (ytyyXu^xoj, a hinge), or hinge-joint, is the movement of bones upon each other in two directions only, viz., forwards and backwards ; but the degree of motion may be very considerable.