445 POSTEKIOK TIBIAL AKTERY. arch, and opposite the heads of the inetatarsaL.bones are joined l^y the anterior perforating branches from the digital arteries. The interosseous artery of the fourth interosseous sj)ace, in addition to the two dorsal collateral branches into which it bifurcates, sends a third branch to the outer side of the little toe. The dorsalis hallucis runs forward upon the first dorsal inter- osseous muscle, and at the base of the first phalanx divides into two branches, one of which passes inwards beneath the tendon of the extensor proprius hallucis, and is distributed to the inner border of tlie great toe, while the other, bifurcates into two dorsal collateral digital branches for the adjacent sides of the great and second toe. The arteria magna hallucis arises from the dorsalis pedis, while in the metatarsal space and just before its inosculation with the external plantar artery. It sends a digital branch to the inner border of the great toe on its plantar aspect, and bifurcates to supply the plantar collateral digital brandies of the great and second toe. POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The posterior til)ial artery j)asses obliquely downwards along the tibial side of the leg from the lower border of the jiopliteus muscle to the concavity of the os calcis, Avhere it divides into the internal and external plantar artery. In its course it is accompanied by venae comites, and by the posterior tibial nerve, which lies to its inner side at first, and to its outer side for the rest of its course. Plan of the Relations of the Posterior Tiljial Artery. S^lpcrficialll/. Integument and fascia, Gastrocnemius, Soleus, Deep fascia, Intermuscular fascia, Posterior tibial nerve. Inner Side. Posterior tibial nerve i (upper third), Vein. Posterior Tibial Artery. Outer Side. Posterior tibial nerve (lower two-thirds), Vein. Deepli/. Tibialis posticus, Flexor longus digitorum, Tibia, Ankle-joint. Branches.—The Ijranches of the posterior tibial artery are the— Peroneal, Internal calcanean, N"trient, Internal plantar, Muscular and cutaneous. External plantar. Coiumunicating,