SACEAL NERVES. 590 nerves and one-lialf the fourth. The plexus is triangular in form, its base corresponding with the whole length of the sacrum, and its apex with the lower part of the great sacro-ischiatic foramen. It is in relation behind with the pyriformis muscle, and in front with the pelvic fascia, which separates it from the internal iliac vessels and the viscera of the pelvis. The branches of the sacral plexus are— Visceral, Pudic, Muscular, Lesser ischiatic, Superior gluteal. Greater ischiatic. Inferior gluteal. The visceral nerves are three or four large branches derived from the fourth and fifth sacral nerves : they ascend by the side of the rectum and bladder; in the female by the side of the rectum, vagina, uterus, and bladder; and interlace with branches of the hypogastric plexus, sending in their course numerous filaments to the pelvic viscera. The muscular branches are one or two twigs to the levator ani; an obturator branch, which curves around the sj^ine of the ischium along with the pudic vessels and nerve, to reach the internal surface of the obturator internus muscle; two twigs to the pyriforviis; a branch to the gemellus su2)erior ; and a branch of moderate size, which descends between the gemelli muscles and the ischium, and is dis- tributed to the gemellus inferior, qnadratus femoris, and cajjsule of the hijJ-joint. The SUPERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE arises from the lumbo-sacral near its junction with the first sacral nerve; it passes out of the pelvis with the gkiteal artery, through the great sacro-ischiatic fora- men above the pyriformis muscle, and divides into a superior and an inferior branch. The superior branch follows the direction of the middle curved line of tlie ilium, accompanying the deep superior branch of the gluteal artery, and sends filaments to the gluteiis medius and minimus. The inferior branch passes obliquely doAvnwaixls and forwards between the gluteus medius and minimus, distributing numerous filaments to both, and terminates in the tensor vaginte femoris muscle. The superior gluteal nerve should, properly, be described with the himbar plexus, as its fibres are entirely derived therefrom, the sacral plexus contributing nothing to its formation; its descrij^tion with the latter is, however, so thoroughly sanctioned by usage that. we hesitate to make a change. The INFERIOR GLUTEAL NERVE is often described as a branch of the lesser ischiatic, with which it is intimately comiected. It arises from the lumbo-sacral cord and first and second sacral nerves, escapes from the pelvis through the greater sacro-sciatic foramen,