632 ORGAN OF VISION. the optic-iierve entrance to the back of the lens; it is filled with clear fluid. Anteriorly the hyaloid is connected with the posterior part of the capsnle of the lens, while a thickened prolongation of it forms the suspensory ligament of the lens. The crystalline lens is situated im- mediately behind the pupil, and sur- rounded Ijy the ciliary processes, which neai/ly reach its margin. It is more convex on its posterior than its anterior surface, and is embedded in the anterior part of the vitreous humour, from which it is separated l)y the hyaloid memljrane. It is invested by a peculiar transparent and elastic membrane, the capsule of tit e lens, Avhich is thicker in front than be- hind, in consequence of the suspensory ligament joining it on that aspect. The capsule is connected with the lens in front by means of a single layer of "granular and nucleated polygonal cells," which, at its edge, become con- tinuous with the nucleated fibres of the The lens is re- tained in its place by means of the susijensory ligament, to be presently described. Structure.—^The lens consists of con- centric layers, of which the external are soft, the next firmer, and the central form a hardened nucleus. They are best demon- strated by boiling or by immersion in alcohol, when they are easily separated from each other. Another division of the lens takes place at the same time : it splits into three triangular seg- ments, having the sharp edge directed towards the centre, and the l)ase towards the circumference. The concentric lamina? are composed of minute hexagonal filires, united with each other by means of irregularly serrated edges, the serrations of which accu- rately fit into each other. Some of the superficial fibres possess nuclei, which are usually arranged in regular zones, and are con- tinuous in series with the nuclei of the cells between the capsule and lens anteriorly (Babuchin). The suspensory ligament of the lens—Retzius (Zonule of Zinn, Zonula ciliaris)—is a firm, transparent membrane, passing froni the fore-part of the circumference of the lens to join the hya- loid membrane nearly opposite the ora serrata. It is gathered up into numerous pleats which fit into the depressions between the ciliary processes, and when withdrawn carry Avith them some of the pigment which covers those j)rocesses. Structurally, it is found to consist of pale longitudinal parallel fibres, resembling those of Pig. 368.—The crystalline leii.s I. The laminae of whicli the lens itself (Fig. 368) lens is composed. 2. The cells • - - > o - contained between the capsule and front of the lens. 3. Cap- sule of the lens. 4. Nuclear zone.