442 POPLITEAL ARTERY. 1 r' 1jicei5s, and the internal throngli an ai^ched opening lieneatli the tendon of tlie adductor niagnus. They supply the knee-joint and lower part of the femur, and give hranclies to the vasti muscles. The azygos articular artery pierces the posterior ligament of the joint, the ligamentum posticum Winslowii, and supplies the crucial ligaments and synovial membrane. There are, frequently, several j^osterior articulai' arteries. Cutaneous branches pass out between the two heads of the gastrocnemius and are distributed to the skin and subcutaneous hit of the calf. The inferior articular arteries wind around the head of the tibia immediately be- low the joint, and anas- tomose with each other, the superior articular' arteries, and the re- current of the anterior tibial. The external passes beneath the long external lateral liga- ment of the joint, the internal beneath the in- ternal lateral ligament. They supply the knee- joint and the heads of the tibia and fibula. The muscular In-anches consist of a superior and inferior set: the former arise from the upper i)art of the artery and are distributed to the vas- tus externus and hani- sti'ing muscles ; the latter, called also the sural arteries, pass to the two heads of the gastrocnemius. ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. The anterior tibial artery ]:)asses foi'wards 1 )etween the two heads of the tibialis posticus muscle, and through n])per \m-\ of the interosseous membrane, to the Fir:. 270.—Anterior aspect of the leg and foot, sliowing the anterior tibial and doi-salis pedis arteries ; the tibialis an- ticus has been removed. I. Tendon of insertion of the quadriceps ex- tensor muscle. 2. In- sertion of the ligamen- tum patellae into the lower border of the pa- tella, 3. Tibia. 4. E.x- tensor proprius hallucis mu.scle. 5. Extensor loiigus digitorum. 6. The peronei. 7. Inner belly of the gastrocne- mius and soleus. 8. An- nular ligament, g. An- terior tibial artery. 10. Its recurrent branch inosculating with (2) in- ferior external articu lar, and (i) superior extei'- nal articular arteries, branches of tlie popli- teal. II. Internal mal- leolar artery. 17. Ex- ternal malleolar inoscu- lating with the anterior peroneal artery (12). 13. Dorsalis pedis artery. 14. Tarsal and metatar- sal branches. 15. Dor- salis hallucis artery. 16. Continuation of the dor.salis pedis into the sole of the foot. tl le opening in th