CRUEA CEREBRI. it is cliiefly formed by a large nucleus, which on horizontal section presents the apj)earance of a biconvex lens ; hence it has been named the lenticular nucleus. In a transverse vertical section this nucleus appears triangular, with the base directed outwards and the apex inwards ; the grey matter which forms its bulk is streaked by numerous white fibres which radiate as they pass through it into the convolutions. On the inner side the lenticular nucleus is sej)arated from the nucleus caudatus and thalamus opticus by a strand of white matter called the interned ccqmile, and on the outer side a similar but less-marked band called external capsule lies be- tween it and the island of Eeil ; a grey streak in the middle of the latter has been named the teniaform nucleus or claustrum. The crura cerebri or cerebral peduncles are two rounded white masses which proceed from the upper margin of the pons, and, diverging from each other, enter cq the under aspect of the hemi- / \ The tegmentum is traversed in Origin of the third nerve, the middle line near its upper part liy the aqueduct of Sylvius, which in cross-section is triangular or T-shaped ; and beneath the floor of this canal is a small grey nucleus on each side which gives origin to the third nerves. Beneath the nucleus of the third, a bundle of longitudinal nerve fibres is seen, constituting the pos- terior longitudinal bundle (jj.l.b.), and about the middle of the peduncle there is a spheroidal mass of nuclear matter, named from Its colour the red nucleus; it is traversed by the fibres of the third nerve. Tlie bulk of the tegmentum is formed by a continuation upwards of the formatio reticularis of the pons, which is in its turn continued into a reticular layer beneath the thalamus. Towards the outer side, however, is a band of white fibres called the fillet; it lies Transverse Section of the Crura Cerebri. sj^heres in the region of the basal ganglia. In front of the diverging crura is the posterior perforated space and corpora albicantia, while the third nerve issues from the inner side of each cms, and the fourth nerve from the outer side ; on their uj)per aspect they are inseparable from the corpora quadrigemina. A transverse sec- tion (Fig. 315) shows the crura to be divisible into two parts, an upper, called the tecjmentum, and a lower, tlie crusta; separated by a transverse band of pigmented grey matter, the locus niger. Fig. 315.—Transverse section of crura cerebri. CQ. Corpora quadrigemina. Aq. Aqueduct of Sylvius, p.l.b. Pos- terior longitudinal bundle. F. Olivary- fillet. RN. Red nucleus. SN. Sub- stantia nigra. TOC. Fibres passing between cerebellum and temporo- ."phenoidal convolutions. Py. Pyra- midal tract. Fc. Fibres passing to fron- tal convolutions from cerebellum. III.