37 NERVE GANGLIA. instances the medullary sheath also may be traced as a thin coating over its exterior. Neuroglia.—The proper substance of the nervous centres (nerve fibres and nerve cells) is supported by a peculiar modification of connective tissue, described by Virchow under the name of neuroglia. This bears a close resemblance to the reticular tissue, described on a previous page, consisting of a reticulum formed by the intercoia- niunication of processes of greatly branched cells. Besides this, there exists a finely granular matrix, in which the nerve cells are embedded. GANGLIA.—In its widest signification a ganglion is a nervous centre, whether found in the interior of the brain or spinal cord, or existing in an isolated posi- tion, remote from those great aggregations of nerve matter ; in a more restricted sense it is limited to those small secondary centres found in large numbers throughout the sympathetic system in con- nection with the roots of the spinal nerves, and on the trunks, or connected with some of the branches of the cerebral nerves. Ganglia have a fibrous covering, continuous \vith the sheath of the nerves entering and leaving them ; from this capsule processes are sent into the interior of the ganglion, dividing it into compartments. The interior of the ganglion is of a greyish coloui', and consists of nerve cells and nerve fibres, sup- jiorted hj connective tissue. The nei've cells are round, oval, or multipolar, and are covered by a continuation of the primitive sheath of the nerves, and sometimes also hj the medullary sheath. Some of the nerve fibres pass through the ganglion witlioiit becoming connected with the cells, others terminate in the bi'anches of the multi]Dolar cells, their axis cylinder becoming continuous with the protoplasm of the cell ]n'o- cess. Large ]iyriform ganglion cells are occasionally found in the sympathetic system ; every ganglion cell of this kind is connected with at least two nerve fibres, one of which is straight, and passes directly to the centre of the cell ; the other winds spirally round the first, and is traceable for some distance on the outer surface of the cell. According to Arnold the central fibre is connected with the Fjg. a, 51.—Sketch of a synipatliotic ganglion. b, c. Nerve trunks, d. Multipolar cells. Axis cylinder of nerve joining pole of cell, e, unipolar, and /, apolar cells.