PEEITONEUM. 701 necessity for the hepatic and gastric arteries to pass forwards from the cieliac axis to reach their respective viscera. If air be blown through the foramen of Winslow, it will descend behind the lesser omentum and stomach to the space between the descending and ascending pair of layers, forming the great omen- tum. This is sometimes called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, and that external to the foramen the greater cavity ; in which case the foramen is considered as the means of communication between the two. It may be objected to this division that it tends to lead the inexperienced to believe that there are two cavities, while, in i-eality, there is but one, the foramen of Winslow being merely a constriction of that one, to facilitate the communication between the nutrient arteries and the viscera of the upper part of the abdomen. The great omentum (gastro-colic) consists of four layers of peri- tmeum, the two which descend from the stomach, and the same two, returning upon themselves to the transverse colon. A qiiantity of adipose substance is deposited around the vessels which ramify through its structure. In the foetus and young child, and occa- sionally in the adult, it is possible to separate the ascending layers of the gi^eat omentum from the transverse colon, and to trace them to the vei'tebral column on the upper surface of the transverse meso- colon, with which, however, they are only loosely connected. Under these circumstances the latter fold is formed by a separate dupli- cature of the peritoneum, and is not the direct continuation of the omentum, as in tlie description above given. The transverse meso-colon {^lea-os, middle, being attached to the middle of the cylinder of the intestine) is the medium of con- nection between the transverse colon and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It affords to the nutrient arteries a passage to reach the intestine, and also forms a transverse septum across the abdominal cavity. On reaching the posterior wall of the abdomen, its two layers separate from each other on the anterior aspect of the trans- verse duodenum, the one ascending to cover in the pancreas, kidneys, and sujjra-renal capsules, and to pass from thence to the under surface of the diaphragm, the other descending to form the ' mesentery, and then passing into the pelvis. The mesentery (ixea-ov evrepov, connected to the middle of the cylinder of the small intestine) is the medium of connection between the small intestines and the posterior wall of the abdomen. It is very narrow at its vertebral edge, measuring usually about six inches, while on its visceral border it measures from fifteen to eighteen feet; it thus presents the appearance of a gigantic fan folded on itself. It is oblique in direction, being attached to the posterior wall, from the left side of the second lumbar vertebra to the right iliac fossa ; retains the small intestines in their place, and contains between its folds the mesenteric arteries, veins, nerves, lymphatic glands, and lacteal vessels. The meso-rectum, in like mamrer, retains the rectum in con-