THIRD LAYER OF MUSCLES. 375 Third Layer. Flexor brevis hallucis. Adductor hallucis, Transversus pedis. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. Dissection—The tendons of the long flexors and the muscles con- nected with them must be removed, to see clearly the attachments of the third layer. The FLEXOR BREVIS HALLUCIS arises by a pointed tendinous process from the side of the cuboid, external cuneiform bone, and expanded tendon of the tibialis posticus ; it is inserted by two heads into the outer and inner sides of the base of the first phalanx of the gi-eat toe. Two sesamoid bones are developed in the tendons of insertion of these two heads, and the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis lies in the groove between them. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the abductor hallucis, tendon of the flexor longus hallucis, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the tarsal bones, metatarsal bone of the great toe, and insertion of the tendon of the peroneus longus. By its inner border with the abductor hallucis ; and by its outer border with the adductor hallucis ; with both of which muscles it is blended near its insertion. Nerve-supply.—Internal plantar nerve. The ADDUCTOR HALLUCIS arises from the cuboid bone, the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus, and the base of the third and fourth metatarsal bones. It is inserted into the Ijase of the first phalanx of the great toe, in conjunction with the outer head of the flexor breads hallucis. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, flexor accessorius, and lumbricales. By its deeiJ S7irface with the tarsal bones and ligaments, external jilantar artery and veins, interossei muscles, tendon of the peroneus longus, and metatarsal bone of the great toe. By its inner border with the flexor brevis hallucis, Avith which its fibres are blended. Nerve-supply.—Ex ternal plantar. The TRANSVERSUS PEDIS arises by fleshy slips from the inferior metatarso-phalangeal ligaments of the three outer toes, and from the transverse ligament. It passes transversely inwards to be inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, its tendon being blended with that of the adductor hallucis. Relations.—By its superficicd surface with the tendons of the flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, and lumbricales. By its deep surface with the interossei and ligaments of the metatarso- phalangeal articulations. Nerve-supply.—External plantar. Tlie FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI arises from the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and the sheath of the tendon of the peroneus longus. It is inserted into the base and external border of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the tendons of the