BICEPS AND BKACHIALIS ANTICUS. 325 Nerve-supply.—The external cutaneous nerve which pierces it !abo\it its middle. The BICEPS BRACHII {bis—caput, two heads ; flexor cubiti) arises by two tendons ; one, the short head, from the coracoid process in common with the coraco-brachialis ; the other, the long head, from the upper part of the glenoid cavit)^, where it is continuous witli the glenoid ligament. The muscle is inserted by a flattened tendon into the back part of the tubercle of the radius. The long head, a long slender tendon, passes through the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint enclosed in a sheath of the synovial membrane ; after leaving the cavity of the joint, it is lodged in the deep groove that separates the two tuberosities of the humerus, the bicipital groove, j A small synovial bursa is interposed between the tendon of insertion and the tubercle of tlie radius. At the bend of the elbow, the tendon of tlie biceps gives off fi'om its inner side a tendinous band, whicli spreads out to form a sheet of fascia called the semilunar or bicipital fascia; it i)rotects the l^rachial artery, and is continuous with the fascia of the forearm. The biceps occasionally has a third head, connected with the humerus ; this most frequently arises from the shaft of that bone in connection with the insertion of the coraco-brachialis and origin of the brachialis anticus, and is inserted into the back part of the bicipital fascia and inferior tendon of the muscle. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deltoid, pectoralis major, superficial and deep fascia, and integument. By its posterior surface the short head rests on the subscapularis, from which it is separated by a bursa. In the rest of its extent the muscle is in relation with the humerus, teres major, latissimus doi'si, and bra- chialis anticus ; from the latter it is separated by the musculo- cutaneous nerve. By its inner border with the coraco-brachialis,. lirachial artery and veins, and median nerve ; the brachial vessels crossing its tendon at the bend of the elbow. By its outer border with the deltoid and supinator longus. Nerve-supply.—The external or muscular cutaneous nerve. The BRACHIALIS ANTICUS is a broad muscle covering the whole of the anterior surface of the lower part of the humerus ; it arises by two fleshy serrations, which embrace the insertion of the deltoid, from the anterior surface of the humerus, and from the inner inter- muscular septum. Its fibres converge to be inserted into the base of the coronoid process of the ulna, between two processes of the flexor profundus digitorum. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the biceps, musculo- cutaneous nerve, brachial artery and veins, and median nerve. By Its posterior surface with the humerus, anterior ligament of the elbow-joint, and intermuscular septum. The latter separates it from the triceps. By its external border with the supinator longus, extensor carpi radiahs longior, musculo-spiral nerve, and recurrent radial artery. By Its internal border with the intermusciilai' se])tum (which separates It from the triceps and ulnar nerve), and with the pronator radii teres.