351 OBTUEATOES AND GEMELLI. bone around the obturator foramen and to tbe obturator membrane. It passes out of the pelvis through the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen, and is inserted by a flattened tendon into the inner aspect of the upper border of the trochanter major. The lesser sacro-ischiatic notch, over which this muscle plays as through a pulley, is faced with cartilage, and provided with a synovial bursa to facilitate its movements. The tendon is most marked on the side applied to the surface of the notch, and is divided into four or five narrow portions, which have a silky sheen ; it is bordered above and beloAV by the gemelli muscles (hence their names), which are in- serted into the sides of its tendon, and appear to be auxiliaries or superadded portions—external origins, in fact, of the obturator internus. Relations.—By its siq^erficial or 'posterior surface with the in- ternal pudic vessels and nerve, the obturator fascia, which separates it from the levator ani and viscera of the pelvis, the sacro-ischiatic ligaments, gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. B}^ its deep or anterior surface with the obturator membrane and the margin of bone surrounding it, the cartilaginous pulley of the lesser ischiatic foramen, external surface of the pelvis, and capsular ligament of the hip-joint. By its upper border within the pelvis, with the obturator vessels and nerve ; externally to the pelvis, with the gemellus superior. By its loiver border with the gemellus inferior. Nerve-supply.—A special branch of the sacral plexus. The GEMELLUS INFERIOR arises from the posterior border of the tuberosity of the ischium, and is inserted into the lower border of the tendon of the obturator internus, and into the upper border of the trochanter major. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, and ischiatic vessels and nerves. By its deep surface with the external surface of the pelvis and capsule of the hip-joint. By its upper border with the tendon of the obturator internus. By its loioer border with the tendon of the obturator externus and quadratus femoris. Nerve-supply.—A branch from the sacral plexus. In this region only the tendon of the obturator externus can be seen, by pulling apart the gemellus inferior and quadratus femoris ; it is situated deeply between the gemellus inferior and upper border of the quadratus femoris. To expose the muscle fully, it is necessary to dis.sect it on the anterior part of the thigh, after the removal of the pectineus, adductor longus, and adductor brevis. The OBTURATOR EXTERNUS muscle (obturctre, to stop up) arises from the obturator membrane and from the surface of the bone immediately surrounding it anteriorly—viz., from the ramus of the pubes and ischium ; its tendon passes outwards behind the neck of the femur, to be inserted into the digital fossa of the trochanter major. When the femur is rotated outwards the tendon of this muscle lies in the groove between the acetabulum and tuberosity of the ischium. Relations.—By its su])erficial or anterior surface with the tendon of the psoas and iliacus, pectineus, adductor brevis and magnus,