MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL COKD. 535 The arachnoid of the spinal cord is a continuation of that of the brain. It encloses the cord very loosely, being connected to it only by long slender filaments of areolar tissue, and by a longitudinal lamella ^\dlich is attached to the posterior aspect of the cord {aei^tum posticum). The areolar tissue is most abundant in the cervical region, and diminishes in quantity from above downwards; and the septum jDosticum is complete only in the dorsal region. The arachnoid jjasses off from the cord on either side with the spinal nerves, to which it forms a sheath. The space between the arachnoid and the pia mater is identical with that already described as existing between the same parts in the brain, the sub- arachnoid space. It is occupied by cerebro - sj)inal fluid, sufficient in quantity to expand the arachnoid, and fill completely the cavity of the dura mater. The sub-arachnoid or cerebrospinal fluid kee])s up a constant and gentle pressure on ihe entire surface of the brain and spinal cord, and yields with tlie greatest facility to the various movements of the cord. The pia mater is the immediate investment of the cord, and, like the other membi'anes, is continuous with that of the brain. It is not, however, like the pia mater cerebri, a vascular membrane, but is dense and fibrous in structure, and contains but few vessels. It invests the cord closely, and sends a fold into the anterior median fissure ; it is intimately connected with the neuroglia of the cord and with that occupying the jjosterior median fissure. It forms a sheath for each of the funiculi of the nerves, and for the nerves themselves ; and, inferiorly, at the conical termination of the cord, is prolonged downwards as a slender ligament (filuvi terminate), which descends through the centre of the cauda equina, and is attached to the dura mater lining the canal of the coccyx. This attachment is a rudiment of the original extpnsion of the spinal cord into the canal of the sacrum and coccyx. A longitudinal band of white fibres runs down the centre of the anterior aspect of the cord, and was called by Haller the linea splendens. The pia mater has, distributed to it, a number of nervous plexuses. The ligamentum denticulatum (ligamenium dentatum) is a thin process of pia mater sent oft' from each side of the cord throughout its entire lengtli, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of tbe spinal nerves. At its inner edge it is attached to the latei-al aspect of the cord, aud at its outer edge forms numerous saw-like processes or denticulations, the points of which are connected with the inner surface of the dura mater. The number of serrations on eacli side is about twenty, the first being situated on a level with the occipital foramen, and liaving the vertebral artery and h^qjoglossal Pig. 319.—Transverse section of the spinal cord aud its membranes. I. Dura mater. 2. Inner lining of dura mater. 3. Arachnoid. 4. Sub- dural space. 5. Sub-arachnoid space. 6. Anterior root of nerve. 7. Liga- mentum denticulatum. 8. Gan- glion on posterior root of nei-ve.