LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN. of tlie Ikixoi' )iiusclt'S(.r tlu; ti'unk ; and, ])r(;s(',iTii)g tlie u])riglit ])osi- tion ol tlie .si)ine, limit the expenditure of niusculai' force. They are longest in the cervical and thickest in the lunihar region. The liganienta suljfiava are continued in the cervical i-egion on to the inner .side, and in the doi'.sal and Inmljar regions on to both antei-ior and inner sides of the articular ]">rocesses, so as to form pai't of the cajisules of the joints. Articular Processes.—The liga- ments of the articular processes of the vertebra; are thin capsules of wliite and yellow fil)res wliich surround and enclose the synovial membrane; the latter being looser in the cervical than in the other regions of the spine. Spinous Processes. — The inter- spinous ligaments, thin and inem- bi'anous, are extended l)etween the spinous processes in the dorsal and lumbar region ; being thickest in the latter. They are in relation with the interspinous muscles at each side. The supraspinous ligament (Fig. 159) is a strong, ill)rous cord, extending from the apex of the spinous jjrocess of the last cervical veT'telira to the coccyx, and attached to each s^^inous process in its course. Like the anterior and posterior connnon ligaments, it is composed of fibres of unecpuil length, the deeper fibres i)assing from one vertebra to the next, the superficial fibres extending over several spinous processes. It is thickest in the lumbar region. The con- tinuation of this ligament upwards to tlie tuljerosity of the occipital bone, constitutes the rudimentary ligamentum nuclia3 of man. TIr' latter is strengthened, as in animals, by a thin slip from the spinous process of each cervical vertebra. At its lower termination the supraspinous ligament s]ireads out to cover the end of the sjiinal canal, exposed hj the deficiency of the laminse of the lower sacral and coccygeal A'ertebrse. Transverse Processes.—The intertransverse ligaments are represented in the cervical region only Ijy a few scattered fibres, in the dor.sal region they are rounded cords, and in the lumbal" region they are thin and membranous. Movements of the Spine.—Flexion and extension take place freely in the cervical and lumbal- regions, l)ut especially in the latter ; in the dorsal region these movements are very slight in consequence of the imbrication of the lamina; and the small amount of intervertebral substance. Rotation is free in the neck, but in consequence of the direction of the articular ])rocesses takes place round an oblique axis, the articular process of one side moving Fig. 150.—Internal view of the arches of three vertebraj. To obtain this view tlie luminte have been divided through their pedicles. i. One of tlie liga- inenta subflava. 2. The capsu- lar ligament of one side.