629 EE TINA. pigmentary layer, formerly described as forming part of the choroid coat. In some animals this is replaced by a layer of considerable extent and of metallic brilliance, called tapetum; it appears to con- sist chiefly of connective tissue. The next layer of the retma (bacillary layer) was formerly called Jacob's membrane, from its having been described by Dr. Jacob ; it consists of a number of peculiar rod-like bodies, with which are mingled others with bulbous inner extremities, called cones. The relative proportion of rods and cones difters in different parts of the retina—thus, m the yellow spot the rods are absent, and the cones are attenuated, elongated, and crowded ; in the neighbourhood of the ora serrata, on the other hand, the rods are the most numerous, and the cones are interspersed at considerable intervals (Fig. 364). The middle layers consist of several strata of corpuscles and mole- cules, Avhich, upon minute examination, are found to be divisible into—(i) an outer stratum, consisting of oval corpuscles of small size, many of which are nucleated {outer granular layer); they have been divided into cone granules and rod granules, according as they Fig. 365.—Pigmentary cells of retina, a. Seen from the surface, b. Seen from the side. c. Relation of retinal rods to the pigment. are connected with one or other of the elements of the bacillary layer ; the former are larger than the latter, and are closely con- nected to the bases of the cones, while the rod granules are small, transversely striated, and distinct from the bases of .the rods; (2) next to this a very narrow band of fine molecules {outer molecular layer); and (3) internal to this a layer of larger corpuscles, all of which seem to be nucleated {inner granular layer). The granules of the third layer are of two kinds, namely, (a) large cells with two processes or poles; and (/3) pale-edged oval nuclei, which are less numerous, and clearly belong to the connective-tissue stroma. The inner layers of the retina consist in part of the expanded fibres of the optic nerve, and in part of superadded molecules and nerve cells. Immediately in contact with the inner granular layer above described is a stratum of fine molecules {inner molecular layer), and next to this one or two rows of multipolar nerve cells, while, most internally, the fibres of the optic nerve form a thin layer. These structures are supported by a network of connective tissue, which is condensed so as to form a limiting membrane on the inside