i82 LIGAMENTS OF 'J'HE VERTElJliAL COLUMN. I. ARTICULATIONS OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN.—The liga- ments connecting together the dill'erent jneces of the vertebral column, admit of the same arrangement as the vertebrae them- selves. Thus the ligaments Of the bodies, are the Anterior common ligament. Posterior common ligament, Interverteljral sul)stance. Ligamenta suljHava. Gajjsular ligaments. Synovial memljranes. Inter-spinous, Supra-spinous. Of the transverse processes, Inter-transverse. Of the arches, Of the articular processes Of the spinous processes, Bodies.—The anterior common ligament is a broad and riljbon- like l)and of ligamentous fibres, extending along the front sur- /~) face of the A^erte- iC^-o-^^^ bral column, from the axis to the sac- rum, and becoming broader as it de- scends. It is in- timately connected Avith the interver- tebi'al substance, and less clo.sely with the bodies of the vertebrte. In the dorsal region it is thicker than in the cervical and lumbar, and consists of a median and tAvo lateral portions separated from each other by a series of openings for the passage of vessels. The ligament is composed of fibres of various lengths closely interwoven with Fig. 147.—Anterior ligament of the vertebra;, and liga- ments of the ribs. i. An- terior common ligament. 2. Anterior costo-vertebral or stellate ligament. 3. An- terior costo-transverse liga- ment. 4. Interarticular liga- ment connecting the head of the rib to the inter- vertebral substance, ajid separating the two synovial membranes of this articu- lation. Fig. 148.—A posterior view of the bodies of three dor- sal vertebrae, connected by their intervertebral sub- stance, 1, I. Tlic laminfe (2) have been sawn througli near the bodies of the ver- tebrae, and the ai-ches and pi-ocessesremoved,in order to show (3) tlie posterior common ligament. Part of one of the openings in tlie posterior surface of the vertebra, for the trans- mission of the vena basis vertebrre, is seen at 4, by the side of the narrow and unattached portion of the ligament. each otlier; the deeper and shorter crossing the intervertebral substance from one vertebra to the next; tlie superficial and longer fibres crossing three or four A^ertebrae. The posterior com- mon ligament is situ- ated in the spinal canal; it lies oil the posterior surface of the bodies of the vertebrae, and ex- tends from the axis to the sacrum. It is broad opposite the intcrverteljral substance, to which it is closely adherent; narroAV and thick over the bodies of the vertebrao, from which it is