312 PELVIC FASCIA. the bone is to be sawn tlirough above and below the acetabulum hy two cuts, the upper running from the upper margin of the obturatoV toramen to the upper part of the great sciatic notch, and the lowei' irom the lower margin of the obturator foramen through the tubero- sity of the ischium into the lesser sciatic notch ; the line of section IS shown m Fig. 218. The obturator internus may now l>e detached irom adjacent structures, by grasping its tendon and gently drawin" It ujjwards and foi-Avards. " The pelvic fascia is a strong fibrous layer situated beneath the peritoneum, forming a covering to tlie walls of the pelvis, and reflected froni its walls on to the viscera. It corresponds in position in the pelvis to the fascia lining the abdominal wall (transversalis fascia), and with that covering the iliacus muscle in the iliac fossa (ilia.' Fio. 2ig.—Arrange- ment of pelvic fascia. 1. Symphysis pubis. 2. Bladder. 3. Pros- tate gland. 4. Vesi- cula seminalis. 5. Rectum. 6. Perineal body. 7. Bulb of urethra, a. Colles' fascia, b. Anterior layer of triangular ligament. c. Pos- terior layer of tri- angular ligament. d. Pubo - prostatic ligament, e. Recto- vesical fascia, form- ing a sheath for the vesicula seminalis. Posterior true liga- ment of bladder, a. Anterior true liga- ment of bladder. fascia), but is not at any part directly continuous Avitli the former fascia, and is connected with the latter only for about an inch of the back part of the pectineal line. The pelvic fascia is, for convenience of description, divided into a parietal and a visceral layer. The parietal layer of pelvic fascia is connected with the back part of the pectineal line, being there coiitinuons with the iliac fascia; it then passes obliquely downwards and forwards, along the upper edge of the obturator internus muscle to the ujiper margin of the obturator foramen ; it here leaves the bone, and passing over the upper edge of the obturator muscle joins the obturator membrane, thus converting the groove on the under surface of the pubic bone into a canal for the obturator vessels and nerve. Again reaching the bone, it descends still lower, being found at the middle line of tlie i