LIGAMENTS OF THE PELVIS. coated by a layer of cartilage which binds the corresponding surfaces of the ilium and sacrum together ; when the two bones are forcibly separated this cartilage sometimes adheres to the ilium, sometimes to the sacrum, and occasionally splits equally or unequally. In some instances there are two plates of cartilage with a small cavity be- tween them, and this arrangement is more common in the female than in the male. 2. Between the Sacrum and Ischium. — The anterior or lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament is thin and triangular in form ; it is attached by its ajDex to the spine of the ischium, and by its broad extremity to the side of the sacrum and coccyx, interlacing its fibres with the greater sacro-ischiatic ligament. By its upper border it forms part of the lower boundary of the great sacro- isclriatic foramen, and by the lower, j^art of the lesser sacro-ischiatic foramen. The posterior or greater sacro-ischiatic ligament, larger, thicker, and posterior to the preceding, is narrower in the middle #1 Fig. i6i.—Lipraments of the pelvis and hip-joint, late- ral view. I. Oblique sacro- iliac ligiiment. The other fasciculi of the posterior sacro-iliac ligament arc not seen in this view of the pelvis. 2. Greater sacro-ischiatic ligament. 3. Lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament. 4. Great sacro- ischiatic toramen. 5. Lesser sacro-ischiatic fora- men. 6. Cotyloid ligament of the acetabulum. 7. Ligamentum teres. 8. Cut edge of the capsular liga- ment, showing its extent posteriorly, as compared with its anterior attach- ment. 9. Obturator mem- brane, only partly seen. than at each extremity. It is attached, by its smaller end, to the inner margin of the tuberosity and ramus'of the ischium, where it torms a falciform process, which protects the internal pudic arterv md IS continuous with the obturator fascia. By its larger extremity t IS inserted into the side of the coccyx, sacrum, posterior inferior pme, and extremity of the crest of the iUum. Thegi-eater sacro-ischiatic ligament is m relation, in front with he lesser ligament; behind, with the gluteus maximus, to'some I bres of which it giyes origin. By its superior border it forms part t the boundary of the lesser ischiatic foramen, and, by its lower •order, part of the boundary of the perinseum. It is pierced by the