VERTEBEAL COLUMN. 8r The smaller extremity of the uppermost pyramid is formed by the axis, or second cervical vertebra; and its base, by the first dorsal. Tlie second pyramid is inverted ; having its base at the first dorsal, and the smaller end at the fourth. The third pyramid commences at the fourth dorsal, and gradually enlarges to the fifth lumbar. The fourth pyramid is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. The bodies of the vertebrse are broad in the cervical region ; narroAved almost to an angle in the middle of the dorsal,' and again iDroad in the lumbar region. The arches are broad and imbricated in the cer\'ical and dorsal regions, the inferior border of each overlapping the superior of the next; in the lumbar region an interval is left between them. A considerable interval exists between the cranium and atlas, and another between the last lumbar vertebra and sacrum. The spinous processes are horizontal in the cervical, and become gradually oblique in the upper part of the dorsal region. In the middle of the dorsal region they are nearly vertical, and imbricated ; towards its lower part they assume the direction of the lumbar spines, wliich are quite horizontal. The transverse processes, although very prominent in the atlas, become almost rudimentary in the axis ; they then gradually in- crease in length to the first dorsal vertebra. In the dorsal region they project obliquely backwards, and diminish suddenly in length in the eleventh and twelfth vertebrae, where they are very small. In the lumbar region they suddenly increase in size, the last lumbar being especially large and strong. The intervertebral foramina formed by the juxtaj^osition of the intervertebral notches are smallest in the cervical region, and gra- dually increase to the last lumbar. On each side of the spinous processes, and extending the whole length of the column, is the vertebral groove, which is shallow and broad in the cervical, and deeper and narrower in the dorsal and luml)ar regions. It lodges the principal muscles of the back. Curves of the Vertebral Column.—Viewed from the side, the vertel^ral column presents several curves, the principal of which is situated in the dorsal region, the concavity looking forwards. In the cervical and lumbar regions the column is convex in front; and in the pelvis an anterior concave curve is formed by the sacrum and coccyx. The dorsal curve is due to the bodies of the vertebrse in that region being thicker behind than in front; the cervical curve depends on the greater thickness of the intervertebral substance in front, and the luml)ar curve results in the lower part from the thick- ness of tlie body of the last vertebra anteriorly, and in the upper part from the intervertebral substance being thicker in front. Besides the antero-posterior curves, a slight lateral curve sometimes exists in the dorsal region, having its convexity towards the right side. It is probably caused by habitual faulty posture in working at trades, associated with the use of the right'hand. Development.—The vertebrte are developed by three primary and F