156 OS INNOMINATUM. the lesser sacro-ischiatic ligament, gives passage to the gluteal vessels and nerve, ])yrif()rinis muscle, pudic vessels and nerve, and ischiatic vessels and nerves ; the lesser, completed by the greiit sacro-ischiatic ligament, to the ol)turator internus muscle, the nerve which is dis- tributed to it, and internal pudic vessels and nerve. The inferior border is thick and broad, and called the tuberosity. The surface of the tuberosity is divided into two facets ; the upper and outer, for the origin of the semi-membranosus ; and the lower and inner, for the semi-tendinosus and biceps muscles. The inner margin of the tuberosity is bounded by a sharp ridge, which gives attachment to a prolongation of the great sacro-ischiatic ligament; and the outer margin by a prominent ridge, from which the quadratus femoris muscle arises. The superior border of the ischium is thin, and forms the lower circumference of the obturator foramen. The ranms of the ischium is continuous with the ramus of the pubes, and is slightly everted. The PuBBS is divided into a central part or body, a horizontal ramus, and a descending ramus. The external surface of the body is rough for the attachment of muscles ; the internal surface is smooth, and enters into the formation of the cavity of the pelvis. The superior border is marked by a rougli ridge, the crest; the inner termination of the crest is the ang/e; the outer end, the spine; the latter gives attachment to the inner end of Poupart's ligament. The inner extremity of the body is the syvi- physis; it is oval and rough for the attachment of the articular cartilage. Punning outwards from the spine is a sharp ridge, the pectineal line, which marks the brim of the true pelvis. The inferior border is broad, deeply grooved for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve, and forms part of the boundary of the obturator foramen. The obiter border of the body is sharp and thin, forming part of the margin of the obturator foramen, and giving attachment to the obturator membrane. The horizontal ramus extends from the body of the pubes to the junction of pubes and ilium ; their point of union is marked by a rounded projection, the ilio-pubic. eminence, which serves to separate the surface for the femoral vessels from another depression wdiich overhangs the acetabulum and lodges the psoas and iliacus muscles. Behind this eminence runs the ilio-piectiueal line, and on its inner side is a triangular area for the attachment of the pectineus muscle. The descending ramus of the pubes passes obliqubliv; outwards, and is continuous with the ramus of the ischium. - The inner border forms with tlie corresponding bone the arch of tke-.puhes, and at its inferior part is everted, to give attachment to the crus penis. The ramus of the ischium and pubes together give attachment by their external sur- face to the adductor longus, brevis, and magnus muscles, the gracilis and obturator externus, and by their internal surface to the com- pressor urethras, erector penis, transversus perinei, obturator internus, and levator ani. . , i i The acetabulum (cotyloid cavity) is a deep cup-shaped cavity,