98 TEMPORAL BONE. The basilar surface of the petrous portion is rough, irregular, and enters into the formation of the under surface of the base of the skull Projecting downwards, near its middle, is a long sharp spine, tlie skjloid process, occasionally connected with the bone only by cartilage, and lost during maceration, particularly in the young subject. At the base of this process is a rough sheaith-like ridge, into which the styloid process appears implanted, the var/inal process or tympanic lamina ; it is continuous externally with the auditory process. In front of the vaginal process is a broad triangular depression, the glenoid fossa, bounded in front by the eminentia articidaris, behind by the vaginal process, and externally by the rough lip of the audi- tory process. The glenoid fossa (y\Tjvr], a socket) is divided transversely by the ^ Fio. 103.—Left temporal bone, seen from within, i. Squamous portion. 2. Mastoid portion. Tiie figure is placed immediately above the inner opening of the mastoid foramen. 3. Petrous portion. 4. Gioove for the posterior branch of tlie middle meningeal artery. 5. Bevelled edge of the squamous border of the bone. 6. Zygoma. 7. Digastric fossa, im- mediately internal to the mastoid process. 8. Occipital groove, g. Groove for the lateral sinus. 10. Elevation on the anterior surface of the petrous bone, marking the situation of the perpendicular semi- circular canal. II. Opening of ter- mination of the cai'otid canal. 12. Meatus auditorius internus. 13. A dotted line leads upwards from this figure to the narrow fissure which lodges a. process of the dura mater. Another line leads downwards to the sharp edge which conceals the open- ing of the aquiBductus cochleK, while the ciplier itself is situated on the bony lamina which overlies the opening of the aqua;ductus vestibuli. 14. Styloid process. 15. Stylo-mastoid foramen. 16. Carotid foramen. 17. Jugular process. The deep ex- cavation to the left of this forms part of the jugular fossa ; that to the right is the groove for the ninth, tenth, and eleventh pairs of nerves. 18. Notch for the fifth nerve 011 the upper border of the petrous bone, near its apex. 19. Extremity of the petrous bone, giving origin to the levator palati and tensor tympani muscle. fissure of Glaser, which is the line of union between the tympanic and squamous portions of the temporal bone ; it receives the ex- tremity of the processus gracilis of the malleus, and transuiits the laxator t3anpani muscle, and anterior tym])anic artery. At the inner extremity of the fissure a minute canal terminates, canul of Hnyaier; it transmits the chorda tympani nerve. The surface of the fossa in front of the fissure is smooth, to articulate with the condyle of the lower jaw ; and that behind the fissure rough, for the rece])tion of part of the ]iarotid gland. At the extremity of the inner angle of the glenoid fossa is the opening of the Eustachian tube; al)ove this, and separated from it by a thin lamella of bone, called j^roccsnis coch- leariformis, is. a small canal for the transmission of the tensor tympani muscle.