177 BURSyE MUCOSA. tendons of certain muscles take the place of ligaments and are coated on their interior by synovial membrane. Bursse mucosae are closed synovial sacs, the structure of which has been described on a previous page. Some of them lie between the tendons of muscles and the ligaments of joints, and in this position often communicate with the cavities of those joints ; this being especially apt to occur with the bursa which lies lietween the capsule of tlie liip-joint and the united tendons of the psoas and iliacus. Bursfe occur (i) l)etween tendons and bones, (2) between tendons and ligaments, (3) lietween superficial bony prominences and the fascite beneath the skin, (4) l)etween contiguous tendons, and (5) between neighbouring bones. They are very numerous, about 140 being found in the human body. Siiperjicial hursce are constantly found in the following positions :—In the head and neck they occur on each angle of the lower jaw, beneath the symphysis of the jaw, and on the salient angle of the thyroid cartilage. In the upper extremity, over the acromion process, on the external and internal condyles of the humerus, on the liack of the olecranon, the styloid processes of the ]'adius and ulna, and the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the metacarpo-phalanQ;eal joints. In the lower extremity they are found on the anterior superior spine of the iliiim, over the great trochantei', on the tuberosity of the ischium, the lower half and the upper and outer angle of the patella, on the outer and inner condyles of the femui', the outer and inner tuljerosities of the tibia, the head of the til)ula, the outer and inner malleoli, the ]iosterior and inner face of the OS calcis, and the dorsal surface of the articulations of the toes. The (hep bnrsce lie between the tendons of muscles, or between the tendons and joints ; these are even more numerous than the super- ficial ones, so that only a few of the more important will be mentioned here. These are the bursa beneath the deltoid, that between the tendon of the psoas and capsule of the hip-joint, one beneath the tendon of insertion of the triceps, one beneath the ligamentnm patelltB, one between the gluteus rnaximus and vastus externus, one beneath the tendon of insertion of the biceps of the arm, and one between the tendon of insertion of the senn-meml)ranosus and the inner head of the gastrocnemius. Besides these normal burste, other accidental or pathological ones are formed wherever there is great ])ressure, as, for instance, on the parts of the foot which come in con- tact with the ground in club-foot, and on the ends of stumps after amputation. Blood-vessels.~The arteries distributed to a joint pass to all the structures excepting the cartilages, which are non-vascular; they frequently form fine circles round the edges of the cartilage, and are more especially abundant in the synovial membrane. iVerres.—Hilton formulated a law regarding the distribution of nerves to joints, whicli is as follows :—"The same trunks of nerves, whose bT'anches sup].ly the groups of muscles moving a joint, furnish also a distribution of nerves to the skin over the insertion of the same muscle,rt?;c/ the interior of the joint receives its nerves from the same source."