ORGANS OF SENSE. 624 the strands, small apertures are left, called the spaces of Fontana, thi'ough which the anterior chandler coniniunicates with the canal of Schlenim. MIDDLE TUNIC—The second or )iiiddle tunic of the eyeball is formed by the choroid, ciliary rimscle, and iris, the ciliary procenaen being apx)endages developed from its inner surface! The choroid (x^pinv el'So?, like the chorion, that is to say, " vas- cular ") is of a rich chocolate-brown colour on its external surface, and of a darker tint within. It is connected to the sclerotic by means of the fine areolar tissue called lamina fusca, by vessels and' nerves. Internally, it is in simple contact with the retina. It is pierced posteriorly for the passage of the optic nerve, and is connected ante- riorly with the iris, ciliary processes, and the line of junction of the cornea and sclerotic. The choroid is conrposed of three layers. The external layer is composed of fine elastic fibres arranged in lamellEe, and lined Pio. 358. — Dissection of tlie eyeball, showing its second tunic, and the mode of dis- tribution of the venae vorti- cosae of the choroid, i. Part of the sclerotic coat. 2. Optic nerve. 3, 3. Choroid coat. 4. Ciliary ligament. 5. Iris. 6, 6. Venas vorticosae. 7, 7. Trunks of the vense vorticosae at the point vphere they have pierced the sclerotic. 8, 8. Posterior ciliary veins, which enter the eyeball in company with the posterior ciliary arteries, by piercing the sclerotic at 9. 10. One of the long ciliary nerves, accompanied by along ciHary vein. 3 with endothelium ; it forms lymph spaces, which are connected with the cavity of Tenon's capsule. This layer is called the lamina supra-choroidea. The middle or venous layer consists princijially of veins, the smaller branches of which are arranged in whorls (vasa vorticosa) round the chief trunks, four or five in number. Between the meshes of the veins are stellate i^igmentary cells, which are con- nected together so as to form a fine web. The inner or arterial layer of the choroid or chorio-capillaris (tunica Buyschiana) is formed principally of the ramifications of minute arteries, whidi form a complete network with veiy fine meshes. It is reilectud inwards so as to form the ciliary processes. A structureless transparent membrane (memhrane of Bruch) has been described as lying lietween the chorio-capillaris and the pig- mentary layer of the retina. At the junction of the sclerotic and cornea with the clioroid and iris, a small venous canal is found, called the canal of Schlemm