VEINS OF THE PELVIS. 466 the artery as it passes upwards along tlie brim of the pelvis, hut on the left side it lies altogether to the inner side of the artery; it terminates opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis by uniting with the internal iliac, to form the common iliac vein. Immediately aljovu Poupart's ligament it receives the epigastric and deep circuniHex iliac vein ; it has no valves. The internal iliac vein is formed by vessels which correspond with the branches of the internal iliac artery; it recei-\'es the returning blood from the gluteal, ischiatic, internal pudic, and obturator vein, externally to the pelvis; and from the vesical and uterine plexuses within the j^elvis. The vein lies to the inner side of the internal iliac artery, and terminates by uniting with the ex- ternal iliac vein, to form the common iliac ; it has no valves. The vesical and prostatic plexus is an important plexus of veins which surrounds the neck and base of the bladder and prostate gland, and receives its blood from the veins of the ]>i'ostate, bladder, deep perineal muscles, great dorsal vein of the penis, and the external organs of generation, it is retained in connection with the sides of the bladder by a reflection of the pelvic fascia. The hsemorrhoidal plexus consists of large A^eins with frequent anastomoses Avhich surround the lower part of the rectum, beneath the mucous membrane. From the plexus proceed the superior, middle, and inferior hcemorrhoidal veins, which -accompany the arteries of the same name. This plexus forms a direct communi- cation between the portal and general venous systems. The uterine plexus is situated around the vagina, and at the sides of the uterus, between the two layers of the broad ligament. The veins forming the vesical and uterine plexus are peculiarly sub- ject to the production of calcareous concretions termed phlebolites. The common iliac veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac vein at each side of the pelvis. The right common iliac, shorter than the left, ascends obliquely behind the correspond- ing artery ; and on the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra, unites with the vein of the opposite side, to form the inferior cava. The left common iliac, longer and more oblique than the right, ascends behind and a little internally to the corresponding artery, and j^asses beneath the right common iliac artery, near its origin, to unite with the right vein in the formation of the inferior vena cava. Each common iliac vein receives the ilio- lumbar vein, and often the lateral sacral; the left receives in additit)n the vena sacra media. These veins have no valves. INFERIOR VENA CAVA. The inferior vena cava is formed l)y the union of the two common iliac veins on the intervertel^ral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra. It ascends along the front of the vertebi-al colunin, to the right of the abdominal aorta, and passing through the fissure in the posterior border of the \i\ev and the quadrilateral