7. JlPlTHELIUM. named chyle, wliicli consists of lymph mixed with the products of digestion ; hut diiring fasting, these vessels cany transparent lymph, the same as lymphatic vessels elsewhere. Lymph consists of a fluid portion, or lymph-plasma, and corpuscles, lymph corpuscles, floating in it. The plasma resembles liquor san- guinis, and contains about five per cent, of albumen and one per cent, of salts. The corpuscles are indistinguishable from the white corpuscles of the blood, being nucleated masses of protoplasm having the power of anipeboid movement; they are most numerous in the lymph after it has passed through the lymphatic glands. ' Chyle consists also of a fluid, containing corpuscles identical with those of lymph ; but it also has what is called a molecular basis, con- sisting of minute particles of fat Avith some oil vesicles ; it is this which gives the milky appearance^ Both lymph and chyle resemble blood in spontaneously coagulating when removed ivom the body, forming a thin pale clot, from which serum exudes. EPITHELIUM. The epithelial tissues are distinguished by their retaining the cellular character throughout tlie whole of life ; they are used chiefly for the purpose of protection, l)ut epithelial cells constitute also the secreting cells of mucous membrane and of glands. The superficifd part of the skin consists of many supei'imposed layers of eiiithelial cells, constituting the epidermis; those cells on the surface become flattened and dried, and are cast off as thin scales. Besides forming the epidermis, epithelial cells are found covering the surface of the mucous membranes of the alimentary canal, lachrymal, nasal, and respiratory passages, the urinary and genital canals, the ventricles of the brain, and central canal of the spinal cord, also, lining the glandular recesses and ducts of secreting glands. Modified epithelial cells form the terminal nervous ap- paratus of the organs of special sense, such as the eye, eai^, and nose. A ijinglc layer of flattened epithelial cells covers the surface of the serous membranes of the abdomen, thorax, and cerebro-spinal cavity, and the synovial membrane of joints ; it also lines the heart, l^lood-vessels, and lymphatics, and "the anterior chamber of the eye. In these situations the epithelial tissue is formed from the mesoblastic layer of the embryo, whereas the epithelium elsewhere is derived from the epiblast or hypoblast; for this reason it has been the custom of late years to make a separate class for such tissues, under the name of endothelium. True epithelial tissue consists of one or more layers of nucleated cells, united together by an intercellular cement substance, and resting on a basement membrane, and is divisible into simple non- slralijied and stratified epithelium. Its varieties are the follow- ing