549 FACIAL NERVE. Communications.—In tlie meatus auditorius, tlie facial nerve communicates with the auditory nerve by one or two filarrients ; the intumescentia gangliformis is connected with the greater and. lesser petrosal nerves, and sends a twig hack to the auditory nerve; at the back of the tympanum, the nerve receives one or two twigs from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric; at its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen it receives a twig from the glosso-pha- ryngeal, and in the parotid gland one or two large branches from the auriculo-temporal nerve. Besides these, the facial nerve has numerous peripheral communications, with the branches of the tifth nerve on the face, with the cervical nerves in the parotid gland and on the neck, and with the sympathetic. Tlie branches of the facial nerve are— The tympanic branch is a small filament given off by the facial ■while in the petrous bone, and distributed to the stapedius muscle. The chorda tympani quits the facial immediately above the stylo-mastoid foramen, and ascends by a distinct canal to the upper part of the posterior wall of the tympanum, where it enters that cavity through an opening situated between the base of the pyramid and the attachment of the membrana tympani, and becomes invested by mucous membrane. It then crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus to its anterior inferior angle, and escapes through an opening at the inner end of the fissure of Glaser (canal of Huguier), to join the lingual branch of the fifth at an acute angle between the two pterygoid muscles. Enclosed in the sheath of the lingual nerve, it descends to the sub- maxillary gland, where part of it ends in the submaxillary ganglion; the rest is continued onwards with the filaments of the lingual, to be distributed to the tongue. The origin of the chorda tympani has long been a subject of dis- cussion, some observers regarding it as derived from the intermediary nerve of Wrisberg, others considering it as traceable through the greater and lesser petrosal nerves to the sj)heno-palatine and otic ganglia ; latterly, there has been a growing opinion in favour of its origin from the communicating branch of the glosso-pharyngeal, which joins the facial nerve at the stylo-mastoid foramen. The posterior auricular branch ascends behind the ear, be- tween the meatus and mastoid process, and divides into an anterior or auricular, and a posterior or occipital branch. The auricular branch receives a filament of communication from the auricular branch of the pneumogastric nerve, and distributes filaments to the