6o8 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. the lungs proceed from the third and fourth ganglia, and go to join the posterior pulmonary plexus. The visceral branches of the six lower ganglia unite to form the three splanchnic nerves. The great splanchnic nerve proceeds from the sixth dorsal gan- glion, and receiving the branches of the seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth, passes downwards along the front of the vertebral column and, piercing the crus of the diaphragm, terminates in the semi- lunar ganglion. The lesser splanchnic nerve is formed by filaments which issue from the tenth and eleventh ganglia ; it pierces the crus of the dia- phragm, and joins the solar plexus near the middle line, frequently distributing branches also to the renal plexus. The third or renal splanchnic nerve proceeds from the last thoracic ganglion, and, piercing the diaphragm, terminates in the renal plexus. Wlien absent, the place of this nerve is supplied by the lesser splanchnic. The semilunar ganglion is a large, irregular, gangliform body, pierced by numerous openings, and appearing like the aggregation of a number of smaller ganglia, having spaces between them. By its upper and posterior extremity each ganglion receives the corre- sponding great splanchnic nerve. It is situated by the side of the coeliac axis and root of the suj)erior mesenteric artery, and extends outwards to the supra-renal capsule. The ganglia communicate both above and below the coeliac axis and form a gangliform circle, from which branches pass off in all directions, like rays from a centre. Hence the entire circle has been named the solar plexus. The solar or epigastric plexus receives the great and lesser splanchnic nerves, the termination of the right pneumogastri nerve, some filaments from the right phrenic nerve, and sometimes one or two from the left. It sends forth numerous filaments which, accompany, under the name of plexuses, all the branches given o by the abdominal aorta. Thus we have derived from the solar plexus the— Renal plexuses, Superior mesenteric plexus. Aortic jDlexus, Spermatic plexuses," Inferior mesenteric plexus. Phrenic, or diaphragmatic plexuses. Gastric plexus. Hepatic plexus. Splenic plexus, Supra-renal plexuses, In connection with the phrenic plexus of the right side, there is described a small ganglion diaphragmaticum, which is situated near the supra-renal capsule. In tliis ganglion branches of the right phrenic nerve communicate with those of the sympathetic. The supra-renal plexuses are remarkable for their large size, and for a ganglion, which has received the name of ganglion supra- renale. . . The renal plexuses are large, and receive the third splancluuc nerve. They are joined by filaments from the aortic plexus and