20 BONE. Organic Matter. . Inorganic Matter . (66.4) Gebititi, fat, and blood-vessels . 33.6 / Phosphiite of calcium . . 51.04 I Carbon.ite of calcium . .12.8 / Fluoride of calcium . .1.5 I Phosphate of magtiesiuin . i.oo \ Chloride of sodium, &c. . . 0,06 100. CX) Structure of Bone.—On examiiiing the section of a l)one, it will be found that there are two varieties of osseous tissue : one forming the exterior—hard, compact, dense ; the other occupying the intei'ioi' —spongy, cellular, cancellated. The Lest way to obtain a correct idea of the arrangement of l)one substance is to study tlie appearance presented by a long bone, such as the tibia, wliicli has been sawn longitudinally. The shaft is a hollow pillar, the walls of which are formed of dense bone. The hollow interior is the medullary cavity, and in the recent state is tilled with marroAV. The U])per and lower enlarged ends are formed of an exterior thin shell of compact bone which surrounds a beautiful spider-we1)like latticework of osseous threads, the meshes of wliich are also hlled with marrow. After complete maceration all the mendjranous and oily matters are removed, and the dried bony structure alone is visible. On close observation, it will be seen that the Avails of the pillar consist of fibres or plates arranged in the direction of the bone, and that the cancellated texture of the extremities is formed by the separation and divergence of threads of 1)one which proceed in the same direction as the walls till they reach and support the thin shell which encases the spongy texture of the end. The fibres diverge aiid decussate like the divisions of a Gothic window, and so enclose diamond- shaped spaces, which are the cancdli. This arrangement, which always has reference to the direction in which the bone is to bear pressure, adds greatly to the strength of the loose light part of the bones ; and this is further secured by little cross bars, wliich tie together the long slender fibres just de- scribed. The dense and s])ongy tissues are essentially the same in structure, and the difterence is simply in the decree of closeness with which the fibres are packed. A perpen- dicular section of the body of a vertebra (Fig. 32) shows an example of reticular or cancellated texture where the bars are parallel and straight, in accordance with the direction of the pressure. In^'ilat bones the osseous substance is arranged as two jilates of dense tissue, in some parts closely contiguous to each other, as in the scai)ula ; in others sejiarated ijy loose tissue, or even by liollow spaces, as in the bones of the skidl, where the intervening substance, in which the blood-vessels run, is called the diplo'e. The simplest arrangement of l)one substance is to lie found in the Fic. 31.—Section of head of tibia, to show the cancel- lated texture.