562 WPINAL NERVES. some instances it accompanies the vagus instead of the hypoglossal and m others is absent, tlie entire disti-ibution taking place through the comnmnicans cervicis. In yet another set of cases, the de- scendens supplies the place of the communicans, which Ls otherwise unrepresented. The thyro-hyoid nerve is a small branch distributed to the thyro- hyoid muscle. It is given off by the trunk of the hypoglossal neai- the posterior border of the hyo-glossus, and descends obliquely over the great cornu of the os hyoides. According to HoU, this nerve is really derived from the upper cervical nerves. The muscular branches are given off where the nerve is covered by the mylo-liyoid muscle, and rests on the hyo-glossus ; several large branches take their course across the fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus to reach the substance of the tongue. They are distributed to the hyo-glossus, genio-hyoid, genio-hyo-glossus, and stylo-glossus muscles. On the hyo-glossus muscle, the branches of the hy])oglossal new- communicate with those of the lingual branch of the fifth nerve. SPINAL NERVES. There are thirty-one paii's of spinal nerves, each arising by two roots, an anterior or motor root, and a posterior or sensory root. The anterior roots proceed from the anterior lateral sulcus, which marks the division of the anterior from the posterior jjart of the antero-lateral column of the sj)inal cord, and gradually approacli towards the anterior median fissure as they descend. The posterior roots, more regular than the anterior, proceed from the posterior lateral sulcus ; they are larger, and the filaments of origin more numerous than those of the anterior roots ; and in tlie intervertebral foi'amina there is a ganglion on each of their roots. The first cervical ner^^e forms an exception to these characters ; its posterior root is smaller than the anterior ; it often joins, in whole or in part, the spinal accessory nerve, and sometimes the hypoglossal; it has frequently no ganglion, and when the ganglion exists, it is often situated within the dura mater, the latter Ijeing the usual position also of the ganglia of the last tAvo pairs of spinal nerves. After the formation of a ganglion, the two roots unite, and con- stitute a spinal nerve, which escapes through the intervertebral foramen, and sej^arates into an anterior division for the saijjjly of the front aspect of the body, and a posterior division for the poste- rior aspect. In the first cervical, last sacral, and coccygeal nei've this division takes place within the dura mater; and in the upper four sacral nerves, externally to that cavity, but Avithin the sacral canal. The anterior cords, with the exception of the first two cervical nerves, are larger than the posterior ; an arrangement which is pro- portioned to the larger extent of surface they are required to supply.