29 MUSCLE. inch in width The light stripe is crossed by a fine dotted line or secondary dark stripe {DoUe's line, or Krause's memhrane). Some anatonaists suppose that the dark portions are occupied by a peculiar semi-fiuid material, called "sarcows matter" (the individual dark spaces being called sarcous elements"), and the lighter por- tions of a more fluid and hence less highly refracting matter The dark stri])e is sometimes crossed by a band of a slightly paler tint; this is described as the median disc of Hensen. The light stripe is divided by Dobie's line into twoportions, which have been named the lateral discs of Engelmann. In many muscular fibres, but especi- ally in those of in- sects, high micro- scopic powers show the dark stripe to be made up of minute rods {muscle-rods) with light intei'vals be- tween them ; the I'ods are thicker at their ends and thinner and lighter in their middle. After the fibres liave been hard- ened in alcohol or solution of osmic acid, they can readily l)e divided by means of needles into longitudinal filaments or fibrils, but even these may be still further divided, the finest of the fila- ments so oljtained presenting the appearance of a series of minute dots. Under other modes of preparation, and especially by the action of hydrochloi'ic acid, a transverse cleavage may take place, resulting in a serie''. of minute discs (Bowman's discs). Whether either of these modes of division corresponds to a normal line of union of elementary jjarts has never^ yet been satisfactorily deter- mined, some observers believing the primitive fibrils to constitute c—-. Fig. 42.—I. A muscle fibre with primitive fibrillie and transverse stviation strongly marked. 2. Isolated fibrillse. 3. Sarcous elements united, forming a disc. 4. Plates of muscle after treatment with hydrochloric acid. 5. A fibre after prolonged treatment with hydrochloric acid with dark (c) and light {d) zones and nuclei (a, b). 6. Two pointed fibres from the human biceps bracliii.