AUDITORY NERVE. 551 cauriculo-teniporal nerve, and divides into temporal, malar, and infra-orbital branches. The temporal branches ascending upon the temporal region supply the attrahens auriculam, occipito-frontalis, and orbicularis palpebrarum ; and communicate with the supra-orbital nerve and temporal branch of the superior maxillary. The malar branches cross the malar bone to the outer angle of the eye, and supply the orbicularis palpebrarum, corrugator super- cilii, and eyelids. They communicate with the subcutaneus malse branch of the superior maxillary nerve, and with branches of the ophthalmic nerve in the eyelids. The infra-orbital branches cross the masseter muscle, and are distributed to the buccinator, elevator muscles of the upper lip, and orbicularis oris. They communicate with the terminal branches of the infra-orbital nerve, infra-trochlear, and nasal nerve. Two or more of these branches are found by the side of Stenson's duct. The CERVICO-FACIAL DIVISION, smaller than the temporo-facial, communicates in the parotid gland with the auricularis magnus I nerve, and divides into branches which admit of arrangement into I three sets : buccal, supra-maxillary, and infra-maxillary. The buccal branches pass forward across the masseter muscle i towards the mouth, and distribute branches to the orbicularis oris t and buccinator. They communicate with branches of the tem- j poro-facial, and with the buccal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. The supra-maxillary branches are destined to the muscles of the lower lip, and take their course along the body of the lower jaw. Beneath the depressor anguli oris, they have a plexiform communi- cation Avith the inferior dental nerve. The infra-maxillary branches take their course below the lower b jaw, pierce the deep cervical fascia, and are distributed to the platysma, J communicating with the superficialis colli nerve. EIGHTH NERVE. Auditory Nerve (portio mollis).—The auditory nerve takes its origin in the floor of the fourth ventricle from two nuclei—one in the tuberculum acusticum at the outer side of the inferior fovea, the other in the lateral recess. It winds around the restiform body, from which it receives fibres, to the posterior border of the crus cerebelli. It then passes forward on the crus cerebelli in company with the facial nerve, which lies in a groove on its superior sur- face, enters the meatus auditorius internus, and at the bottom of the meatus divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular. The distribution of these branches will be found described with the anatomy of the internal ear. The auditory nerve is soft and pulpy in texture, and receives in the meatus auditorius several filaments from the facial nerve.