LARYNX. 676 Fig. 392.—Cartilages of the larynx. I. (Jricoid. 2. Thyroid. 3. Ary- tenoid cartilage. 4. Corniculum laryngis. 5. Epiglottis. pluifynx. Ill the receding angle, foi'med by the meeting of the two alse, oil the inner side of the cartilage, and near its lower Ijorder, are attached the epiglottis, vocal cords, tliyro - arytenoid and thyro - epiglot- tidean mnscles. By its upper border the thyroid cartilage is connected witli the hyoid bone hy means of the thyro- hyoid membrane, its lower border being in like manner connected with the cricoid cartilage by the crico-thyroid membrane. The posterior border of each ala has attached to it the thyro- hyoid and palato-pliaryngeus muscles. The cricoid (KpUos €i8os, like a ring) is a ring of cartilage, narrow in front, and broad behind, where it is sur- mounted by hvo rounded surfaces, which articulate with tlie arytenoid cartilages. At the middle line, posteriorly, is a vertical ridge giving attachment to the oesophagus, and at each side of the ridge are tlie depressions which lodge tlie crico-arytenoidei postici muscles. On either side of the ring is a glenoid cavity, which articulates with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. Its upper border gives attachment to the lateral crico-arytenoideus muscle and the crico- thyroid membrane, and its lower border is connected with the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. The arytenoid cartilages (dpvraiva,* a pitcher), two in number, are triangular and prism oul in form. They are broad and thick below where they articulate with the upper border of the cricoid cartilage ; pointed above, and prolonged by two small pyriform fibro-carti- lages, cornicula laryngis (capitula Saiitorini), whicli are curved inwards and back- wards, and they each present three surfaces, posterior, iii- The posterior surface is concave, and lodges part of the aryteiioideus muscle ; the internal surface is smooth, and forms part of the lateral wall of the glottis ; the anterior or external surface is I'ougli and uneven, and gives attachment to the vocal cord, tliyro-aryteiioideus, crico-arytenoideus lateralis * This derivation has i-eference to the appearance of both cartilages taken together and covered by mucous membrane. In animols, which were the principal sub- jects of dissection among the ancients, the opening of the larynx, with the ary- tenoid cartilages, bears a curious resemblance to the mouth of a pitcher with a Lii^ge spout. F1G.393.—Rightary- tenoid, viewed from the outer side (twice the nor- mal size). 1. Mus- cular angle. 2. Vocal angle. 3. Transverse ridge. 4. Upper ridge, bor- dering fossa. 5. Tubercle. 6. Fossa. 7. OorniLulum la- ryngis. ternal, and anterior