VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. 651 rod, and also terminate in bunches of stiff hairs (outer hair cells). The hairs of the outer series project through ring-like processes which surmount the top of the cells, these processes presenting the appearance of a wire net, and forming what has been named the reticular lamina. On each side of the hair cells the epithelium becomes shorter and shorter, until at length it forms merely a cubical layer, which on the inner side partly fills up the sulcus spiralis, and on the outer side forms a covering for the basilar membrane. VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE INTERNAL EAR. Vessels.—The arteries of the labyrinth are derived from the internal auditory branch of the basilar artery, and from the stylo- mastoid branch of the posterior auricular. The auditory artery at the bottom of the meatus internus divides into cochlear and vesti- bular branches, which accompany the branches of the auditory nerve to the vestibule and cochlea. The veins of the vestibule unite with those of the cochlea, and empty themselves into the superior petrosal sinus, or into the com- mencement of the internal jugular vein. Nerves.—In order that the student may fully understand the distribution of the nerves of the internal ear, it is necessary, in the first place, that he should know something of the anatomy of the interior of the meatus auditorius internus. The meatus pursues a course directly outwards ; it is about one- third of an inch in length, and terminates in two deej) depressions, separated by a sharp horizontal ridge. The sicperior depression^ the smaller of the two, is divided by a vertical ridge into an anterior portion, forming the commencement of the aqu3edu.ctus Fallopii, and a posterior portion, which corresjjonds with the upper part of the inner wall of the vestibule, and is pierced by numerous small foramina. The inferior depression j)resents posteriorly an oval pit, pierced by numerous foramina, opening into the vestibule ; near its anterior extremity, it is marked by a spiral groove pierced by minute openings for the passage of filaments of the coclilear nerve ; this is called tractus spiralis foraminulenttis. In the centre of the small piece of bone which this groove isolates, is one foramen larger than the rest, Avhich leads into the central canal of the modiolus, tubulus centralis modioli. Upon the posterior wall of the lower depression, and opposite to the spiral groove, is a longitudinal groove leading to a foramen, for the transmission of a considerable branch of the vestibular nerve. The auditory and facial nerves enter the meatus internus together, accompanied by the auditory brancli of the basilar artery. At the bottom of the ineatus the facial enters the aqueduct of' Fallopius, and is conducted along it to the stylo-mastoid foramen, as already described. The auditory nerve divides into two branches at the bottom of