ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 28o space between the transverse processes. Homologues of posterior inter-transversales exist in the form of small muscular fasciculi extended between the mammillary process of the luml)ar vertebra). Nerve-supply.—The multihdus spinse, intersjjinales, and intei- transversales, are suijplied by branches from the posterior division > nf the spinal nerves, from the atlas to the sacrum. With regard to the origin and insertion of the muscles of the back, the student should be informed that no exact regularit}- attends their attachments. At the best, a knowledge of their precise connections, even were it possible to retain it, would be but a barren information, if not absolutely injurious, as tending to exclude more valuable learning. Actions.—The upper fibres of the trapezms draw the shoulder upwards and backwards ; the middle fibres, directly backwards ; the lower, downwards and backwards. The lower fibres also pro- duce rotation of the scapula on the chest, tilting the lower angle of that Ijone forwards and upwards, and carrying the upper angle slightly dowuAvards and in"\\"ards ; in this way tlie glenoid ca^dt}• is directed obliquely upwards and outwards, and the trapezius thus performs an important part in the eleA'ation of the arm above the shoulder. If the shoulder be fixed, the uj^per fibres will flex the spine towards the corresponding side. The latis- sirmis dorsi is a muscle of the arm, drawing it backwards and downwards, and at the same time rotating it inwards; if the arm be fixed, the latissinuis dorsi will draw the spine to that side, and, raising the lower ribs, be an inspiratory muscle ; and if both arms be fixed, the two muscles will draw the whole trunk forwards, as in climbing or wallving on crutches. By passing over the inferior angle of the scapula it binds that bone to the thoracic wall, and by being folded round the axillary border it limits the outward projection of the same angle when the arm is raised. The levator anguli scapuke lifts the upper angle of the scapula, and with it the entire shoulder ; the rhomboidei carry the scapula and shoulder upwards and backwards, and approximate the inferior angle of the scapula to the spine. The serrati are respiratory muscles acting in opposition to each other, the serratus posticus superior drawing the ribs upAvards, and thereby expanding the chest; the inferior drawing the loAver rilis dowuAvards, and diminishing the caA'ity of the chest. The former is an inspiratory, the latter an expiratory muscle. The qylenii muscles of one side draAV the \-erteliral column backAvards and to one side, and I'otate the head toAvards the corresponding shouldei'. The muscles of opposite sides acting together, draAV the head directly backwards. They are direct antagonists of the sterno- mastoid muscles. _ _ . The sacro-lumbalis Avith its accessory muscle, the longissimus tJor-^i and spinalis dorsi, are knoAvn by the general term of erector sjniKV, Avhich sufficiently expresses their action. They keep the spine suj)- ported in the vertical position by their broad origin from beloA\-,