63 THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. fibres, and the branches given off from it are also niedullated, till ihey penetrate the basement membi^ane of the acini, or the wall of the dncts ; they then lose their medidlary sheath, the axis cylinder splits up into numerous primitive fibrils, which pass into the sub- stance of the epithelial cells of the ducts and tlie gland cells of the alveoli (Pttiiger), often reaching the nuclei of those cells. Ganglion cells are also described as directly connected by their processes with the gland cells of salivary glands. THE SKIN AND ITS APPENDAGES. Tlie skin is the exterior investment of the body, which it serves to cover and protect. It is continuous at the apertures of the in- ternal cavities witli the lining meml^rane of those cavities, tlie internal skin or mucous membrane, and is composed essentially of two layers, derma and epidermis. The DERMA, cutis vera or cerium, is the deep layer of the skin ; it is composed of areolar tissue, muscular tissue, and fat, together with numerous blood- vessels, lymphatics, and nerves, which ramify through it. For convenience of description it is divided into a reticular and pa- pillary layer, but it must be re- membered that these are nowhere separable the one from the other. Tlie reticular or deep layer of tlie dei'ma presents some variety in thickness in different parts of the body. Tlius in the more exposed regions, as the back, the outer sides of the limbs, the palms, and the soles, it is remarkable for its thick- ness ; Avhile on protected parts it is comparatively tlun, and on the eye- lids , penis, and scrotum is jjeculiarly delicate. It is connected by its undei' sui'face with the coinmon superficial fascia of the body. It is composed chiefly of white filirous tissue collected into bundles, which are small and closely packed in the xipper strata, large anct coarse in the FiG. 75.—Vertical section of skin of linger. A. Epidermis, the surface of which shows hollow depressions, a, a, between the papillary eminences, h, and the openings of the sweat ducts, s; at m is seen the deeper layer of the epidermis, or rete mu- cosuni, and opposite a the clear lino of the stratum lucidum. b, Cutis vera, in which are embedded the sweat glands, d, with their ducts, e, and also aggregations of fat vesicles, // at (7 is seen an arterial twig sup- plying the vascular papillte, p .- and ;it t one of the touch corpuscles with its nerve. deej.er strata ; in the latter they foi'iii large areoltx), which contain arlipose tissue, and in the midst of the fibrous bundles the hair-