2SO ACTIONS 01*^ STERNO-MASTOJD AND PLATYISMA. hyoid, scaleni, levator anguli scapulae, splenii, and posterior belly of the digastncus muscle ; phrenic nerve, transversalis colli, and supra- scapular artery ; deep lymphatic glands, sheath of the common caro- tid and internal jugular vein, descendens cervicis nerve, external carotid artery with its posterior branches, and commencement of thr internal carotid artery ; cervical plexus of nerves, pneumogastric. spinal accessory, hypoglossal, sympathetic, and facial nerves, and parotid gland. It is pierced on this aspect by the spinal accessor\' nerve. Nerve-supply,—Spinal accessory nerve, and branches of the second and third cervical nerves. . Actions.—The platysma produces a muscular traction on the ntegument of the neck, which prevents it from falling so flaccid in Fig. t88. —Muscles of the anterior aspect or the neck; on the right side of the figure the superficial muscles are seen, on the left the deep. i. Posterior belly of digastricus. 2. Its anterior belly. Aponeurotic pulley, through which its ten- don is seen pnssiiig, attached to the body of the OS hyoides. 3, 4. Stylo - hyoid muscle transfixed by the posterior belly of the digastricus. 5. Mylo-hj'oid. 6. Genio- hyoid. 7. The tongue. 8. Hyo - glossus. 9. .Stylo - glossus. 10. Stylo-pbaiyngeus. 11. Sterno-mastoid. 12. Its sternal origin. 13. Its clavicular origin. ^ 14. Steruo-hyoid. 15. V --v.^ Stemo-thyroid of the ^right side. 16. Thyro- hyoid. 17. Hyoid por- tion of the omo-byoid. 18, 18. Its scapular portion ; on the left side, the tendon of the muscle is seen to be bound down by a portion of the deep cervical fascia. 19. Clavicular portion of the trapezius. 20. Scalenus anticus, of the right side. 21. Scalenus posticus; the scalenus medius is seen between the two. old persons as it would if the extension of the skin were the mere result of elasticity. It draws also on the angle of the mouth, and is one of the depressors of the lower jaw. It assists in the expres- sion of the emotion of fright or extreme fear. The sterno-mastoid muscles (nutatores capitis) ai'e the great anterior muscles of con- nection lietween the thorax and the head. Both muscles acting together, when the spine is fixed, raise the head and carry it back- wards. The clavicular portions, acting more forcibly than the sternal, give stability and steadiness to the head in supporting weights. Either muscle acting singly would draw the head towards