26 BONE, sci'i])od above as lining its inner surface. This process is, in its essen- tial ]iavticulars, identical with intivi-niembranous ossification. Very soon, however, the vascular and osteoblastic subperiosteal tissm- penetrates into the cartilage oi the centre, and wdiere it couk^- in contact with the calcifietl matter causes its absorption, thus breaking down the walls of the primary areolae and form- ing larger spaces, called second- ary areolce or medullary spaces. Where this has taken place, it is found that in the spaces so formed, the cartilage cells have disappeared, and that the cavit} is hlled with embryonic mai- row, consisting of branched cell?, osteoblasts, and blood - vessels. Most of the osteoblasts are de- rived from the subperiosteal layer, Init it is probable that some ai'e formed fi*om the carti- lage cells. There are thus two jjrocesses going on at the same time, one an endosteal change, taking place in the cartilage, and the othei' an inti-usion ot cells of subperiosteal origin. The walls of the medullary spaces are at first very thin, but they soon l)ecome thickened l)y deposits in the osteoblasts by which they are lined. Some few of the osteoblastii cells become converted into scat - tered connective tissue, others i-etain theii' original sha]ie, and form the round or lymphoid cells of the medulla, while the largei' number ai'e the active agents in the production of bone. They line the medullary sinus, and a deposit of calcareous salts takes place in them ; us this de]tosition advances, layei' after layer of tlu- cells tiikes part in the process, and the deposition in successive layers around a central blooa-vessci results in the formation of concentrio lamina.' ai-ouud the Haversian Fio. <jo.—N'ertical section from the ossify- ing portion of the sliaft of a long bone, tt. Cartilage. I). Bone. c. Newly-formed bone cells m jirofile, more or less em- bedded in intercellular substance, d. Medullai y cavity in process of formation with vessels and medullary cells, e, f. Bone colls on their broad aspect. (/. Cartilage capsules arranged in rows, and partly with shrunken cell bodies.