TRACHEA. 684 cartilages, and running from theiu outwards to tlie edges of the epiglottis, two crescentic folds of mucous membrane, tlie aryteno- epiglottidean folds. In tlie middle of tlie space, four flattened bands will be seen, two on each ssjde; 'a:!^ these are the true {ivc) and false (svc) vocal cords ; be- tween the former lies the narrow chink or fissure of the glottis. Nerves.—The arteru'S of the larynx are derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The nert-es are the superior laryngeal and recurrent laryngeal; both branches of the pneumo- gastric. The two nerves communicate with each other, but the superior laryngeal is distributed principally to the mucous mem- brane at the entrance of the larynx ; the recurrent to the muscles. I Fio. 398.—Laryngo- scopic view of the »•. glottis during the emission of a high note. e. Epiglot- tis. CM. Cushion of the epiglottis. ivc. True vocal cord. SVC. False vocal cord. Vessels and THE TRACHEA. The trachea or wind-pipe is cylindrical for about two-thirds of its circumference, and flattened on the posterior third, where it rests on the oesophagus ; it extends from oj)posite the upper border of the sixth cervical vertebra to opposite the fourth dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi. The length of the trachea is about four inches (l I cm.), and its diameter from side to side nearly an inch (21 mm.); it is someM'hat larger in the male than in the female. The right bronchus, larger than the left, passes off nearly at right angles, to the upper part of the corresponding lung. The left descends obliquelyy and passes beneath the arch of the aorta, to reach the left lung. The trachea is composed of cartilaginous rings, fibrous membrane, muscular fibres, elastic tissue, and is lined by mucous membrane. The cartilaginous rings are from fifteen to twenty in number, and extend for two-thirds around its cylinder, being deficient at the Ijosterior part. The first ring is received within the lower margin of the cricoid cartilage, and is broader than the rest; the last is broad at the middle in consecpience of the prolongation of tlie lower border into a triangular process Avhich curves backwards at the point of bifurcation. The posterior extremities of the rings are rounded, and occasionally one or two rings will be found to bifui'cate. The ■* outer surface of eacli ring is flat, the inner is convex from above downwards. The fibrous membrane connects the rings and forms a thin covering to them on the outer surface. Internally it does not reacli the surface, and the I'ings have in consequence on that aspect an appearance of greater prominence. It also stretches across between the rings on the posterior part of tlie trachea. The muscular fibres are disposed transversely across the sjiace,