95 TEMPOEAL BONE. / .iMi MM The Squamous portion (nquama, a scale), forming the anterior part of the bone, is tliin, transhicent, and contains no cliploe. On its external surface it is smooth, gives attachment to the fleshy fibres of the temporal muscle, and is marked by a small groove running almost vertically upwards, for the posterior deep temporal artery. It has projecting from it an arched and lengthened process, the zygoma (from ^i^yoj,'a yoke, because it joins the temporal and malar bones together), which, as it passes forwards, becomes twisted in itself. Near the commencement of the zygoma, upon its lower border, is a projection called the tubercle, to which is attached tlie external lateral ligament of the lower j'aw, and continued horizontally in- wards from the tubercle, a rounded eminence, the eminentia articu- laris. The process of bone which is continued from the tubercle of the zygoma into the eminentia articularis is the inferior root of the zygoma. The superior root is continued upwards from the upper Fio. loo.—External surface of the temporal bone of the left side. / I. Squamous portion. 2. Mastoid portion. 3. Extremity of the pet- / rous portion. 4. The zygoma. 5. Indicates the tubercle of the zygoma, and at the same time its anterior root turning inwards to form the eminentia articularis. 6. Supei-ior root of the zygoma, forming the posterior part of the temporal crest. 7. Middle root of the zygoma, terminating abruptly at the glenoid fossa. 8. Mastoid foramen. 9. External auditory meatus, surrounded by the audi- tory process. 10. The digastric fossa, situated immediately to the uiner side of (2) the mas- toid process. 11. Styloid process. 12. Vaginal process. 13. Fissure ■ of Glaser; the leading line from this number crosses the rough posterior portion of the glenoid fossa. 14. Tlie openmg and part of the gi-oove for the Eustachian tube. border of the zygoma, and forms the posterior part of the temporal cv&?>t {supra-mastoi .1 crest), serving by its projection to mark the division of the squamous from the mastoid portion of the bone ; and the middle root, called also post-glenoid process, passes inward.s and Imckwards, and terminates abruptly at a narroAv fissure, the fissure of Glaser. The upper border of the zvgoma is thin' and sharp, and has attached to it the fibres of the temporal fascia ; the lower border is thick, and gives origin to some fibres of the masseter muscle. The interned surface of the sqiiamous portion is marked by several shallow fossae, which correspond with the convolutions of the cerebrum, and by a furrow for the posterior branch of the middle meningeal artery. The su-jierior or squamous border is very thin, and bevelled at the expen.se of the inner surface, so as to overlap the ower and arched border of the parietal bone. The inferior border IS thick, and dentated to articulate with the -spinous process of the