VAGINA AND UTERUS. 787 circular bundles, and intermingled with areolar tissue and a con- siderable plexus of veins. Tlie internal or mucous coat is of a pale red colour, and disposed in nu- merous pleats or folds, columnse rugarum; which diA'erge trans- versely from a middle line, orraj)be, situated on the anterior and posterior wall of the vagina ; the rugae are most strongly developed on tlie an- terior wall, and near the entrance of the vagina, and are termed columns of the vagina. In inti- mate structure the mucous membrane consists of areolar and elastic tissue, to whicli its tirmness and elasticity are due, and presents numerous conical papillte embedded in a squamous epi- thelium. The epi- thelium is thick and laminated, resem- bling that of the oesophagus, its upper scales measuring about 1 oVo of ^^'^ inc\i in diameter; it is con- tinuous externally with the epithelium of the vulva, and terminates internally at about the middle of the cervix iiteri. Ojiening on to the surface of the mucous membrane are numerous mucous follicles and glands ; they are especially plentiful in the upper smooth portion of the vagina and around the cervix uteri. " . ' UTERUS. The uterus or womb is a flattened organ of a pyriforni shape, having the base directed upwards and forwards, and the apex down- wards and backwards, in the line of the axis of the inlet of the pelvis, and forming a considerable angle with the course of the ¥10. 485.—Vertical mesiiil section of a iiuUiparous female, showing the .normal position and relations of the j)elvic organs, i. Pubic symphysis. 2. Peritoneum. 3. Outer layer of bladder wall. 4. Inner layer. 5. Ketro-pubic fat. 6. Clitoris. 7. Vena dorsalis clitoridis. 8. Transversus perinei muscle. 9. Circular muscular fibres of uretlu-a. 10. Labium major. 11. Urethral orifice. 12. Nympba. 13. Longitudinal muscular fibres of urethra. 14. Deep circular fibres. 15. Orifice of vagina. 16. Perineal body. 17. External .sphincter ani. 18. Internal sphincter. 19. Anus. 20. Hecto-vaginal fold of peritoneum. 21. Posterior part of internal sphincter ani. 22. External sphincter. 23. Vagina. 24. Anterior lip of OS uteri. 25. Posterior lip of os. 26. Levator ani. 27. Sacrum. 28. Rectum. 29. Uterus.