I04 SPHENOID BONE. tendon of the tensor palati muscle, and to tlie tip of wliicli the pterygo-maxilhxry ligament is attached ; while from the lower third of its posterior )jorder some ftljres of the superior constrictor muscle of the pharynx have their origin. At tlie base of the internal pterygoid plate is a small oblong depression, the sca])hoid or navicular fossa, froia which arises the circumflexus or tensor palati muscle. The anterior surface of the pterygoid process is broad near its base ; it forms the posterior wall of the spheno-maxillary fossa, and sup- ports Meckel's ganglion. At its lower' part this surface is slightly grooved, to form part of the descending palatine canal. The base of the pterygoid process is pierced by the Vidian canal. Development.—Up to the seventh or eighth month of intra- uterine existence, the anterior and posterior parts of the Ijody of the sphenoid are distinct from each other ;—the anterior part, extending from the posterior border of the olivary process to the ethmoidal spine, being called jne-sjjhenoid, and the posterior portion, from the border of the olivary process to the spheno-occipital synchondrosis, the post-sphenoid. The sphenoid is developed by fourteen centres of ossification, four for the pre-sphenoid, six for the post-sphenoid, two for the internal pterygoid plates, and two for the sphenoidal spongy bones. The first pre-sphenoidal centres appear at the outer side of the optic foramina, about the eighth or ninth week. These are soon followed by another pair of centres, jDlaced to the inner side of the optic fora- mina. From these four centres the anterior part of the body of the sphenoid and the lesser wings are developed. About the eighth week ossific nuclei appear in the greater wings (ali-sphenoids) between the foramen ovale and rotundum. From this ^^oint ossification ex- tends into the whole of the great wing and the external pterygoid plate. In the eighth week also, or a little later, two centres appear in the post-sphenoidal portion of the body (basi-sphenoids), jDlaced side by side in the bottom of the sella turcica. These unite about the fourth month, and after their union two new centres spring up at the other side of the carotid groove, and form the lingula {sphen- otics). The centres for the internal pterygoid ^jrocesses appear about the fourth month, and they unite with the external jjterygoid about the sixth month. The sjDhenoidal sjjongy bones do not become ossified till after birth ; they join the rest of the bone at the time of puberty. At the time of birth the sphenoid consists of three pieces—the body in the centre, and on each side the great wings Avitli the ex- ternal pterygoid plates. They unite during the first year. The sphenoidal cells first begin to appear at about seven years of age. The sphenoid joins the occipital from the eighteenth to the twenty- fifth year. Articulations.—With twelve bones : that is, with all the bones of the cranium, and five of the face—viz., two malar, two palate, and vomer. Attachment of Muscles.—To tivelve pairs: temporal, external