638 ORGAN OF HEARING. ndge formed by the aquseductus Fallopii; beneatli this is an oval opening, fenestra ovalis, which lodges the foot of the stapes; next a rounded prominence due to the projection of the first turn of the I cochlea, and called the promontori/; and below this, near the iioor of ! the cavity, a circular opening, fenestra rotunda^ which communicates i with the scala tympani of the cochlea. At the back part of this wall, I behind the fenestra ovalis, is a conical projection named the pyrarfiid; \ it contains the stapedius muscle, the tendon of which escapes through ' a small opening near its summit. The posterior tmll is irregular, and has several small openings which communicate with the mastoid cells. The anterior extremity is narrow, and has opening into it two canals separated by a lamella of bone (processus cochlearif ormis), the lower and larger being the commencement of the Eustachian tube, i and the upper and smaller containing the tensor tympani muscle. I The cavity of the tympanum is lined by mucous membrane con- I tinuous with that of the Eustachian tube and pharynx : it covers I the walls of the cavity including the membrana tympani, is reflected over the ossicles and chorda tympani nerve, and is continued into ' the mastoid cells to form their lining membrane. The epithelium is for the most part columnar and ciliated, but the roof, promon- tory, ossicles, and membrana tympani are covered by flattened • non-ciliated cells. / The membrana tympani is a thin and semi-transparent mem- ! brane of an oval shape, its long diameter being vertical. It is in- serted into a groove situated around the circumference of the meatus, near its termination, and is placed obliquely across the area of that tube, the direction of the obliquity being downwards and inwards. As seen from the outer surface it presents a depressed centre, or umbo, corresponding to the line of its attachment to the handle of the malleus ; from this depression its fibres radiate, but run in curved ■ lines, so as to cause the membrane to bulge outwards between the | umbo and periphery. At the site of the Rivinian recess the mem- j brane is thin and lax, and is formed by loose connective tissue ; it ■ was specially described by Shrapnell under the name of memhrana , flaccida {ShrapnelVs membrane). \ The membrana tymj)ani is composed of three layers: external, or ' epithelial, continuous with the integument of the meatus ; middle, fibrous, the fibres of which, for the most part, radiate from the | handle of the malleus, but are strengthened at the periphery by a • strong band of circular fibres ; and internal, mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The tympanum contains three small bones, ossicula auditfis— viz., the malleus, incus, and stapes. The malleus (hammer) consists of a head, neck, handle (manu- ■ brium), and two processes, long (processus gracilis), and short (processus brevis). The manubrium is connected with the membrana tympani by its whole length, extending below the central point of tliat mem- brane. The long process descends in the young child to the fissure of Glaser; in the adult it is in great measure converted into