RIGHT AURICLE. direction of these two vessels is such, that a stream forced through the superior cava would rush towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. In like manner, a jet issuing from the inferior cava would dash its stream against the septum auriculariim ; this is the proper direction of the two currents during fcetal life. The coronary sinus returns the venous blood from the substance of the heart; it opens into the auricle between the inferior cava and auriculo-ventricular opening, under cover of the coronary valve. The foramina Thebesii are minute pore-like openings of small veins which issue directly from the muscular structure of the heart, Fig. 384.—Anatomy of the heart. : I. Right auricle. 2. Entrance of the superior vena cava. 3. Entrance of the inferior cavsi. 4. Opening of the coronary si- nus, half closed by the coronary valve. 5. Eustachian valve. 6. Fossa ovalis, surrounded by the annulus ovalis. 7. Tubercle of Lower. 8. Musculi pectinati of the appendix auriculse. 9. Auri- culo-ventricular opening. 10. Cavity of the right ventricle. II. Tricuspid valve, attached by the chordae tendinese to tlie columiise carnea3 (12). 13. Pul- monary artery, guarded at its commencement by three semi- lunar valves. 14. Right pul- monary artery, passing beneath the arch and behind the ascend- ing aorta. 15. Left pulmonary artery, crossing in front of the descending aorta. * Remains of the ductus arteriosus, acting as a ligament between the pulmonary artery and arch of tlie aortn. Tlie arrows mark the course of the venous blood through the right side of the heart. Entering the auricle by the superior and inferior cavse, it passes through the auriculo-ven- tncular opening into the ventricle, and thence through the pulmonary artery to the lungs. i6. Left auricle. 17. Openings of the four pulmonary veins. 18. Auriculo-ventricular opening, jg. Left ventricle. 20. Mitral valve, attached by Its chordae tendmeaj to two large columnse carneae, which project from the walls of the ventricle. 21. Commencement and course of the ascending aorta behind the pulmonary artery, marked by an arrow. Tlie entrance of the vessel is guarded by three semilunar vidves. 22. Arch of the aorta. The comparative tliickness of the two ventricles IS sliown in the diagram. The course of the pure blood through the left side of the heart is marked by arrows. The blood is brought from the lungs by the four pulmonary veins into the left auricle, and passes tlirough the iiuriculo-ventricular opening into the left ventricle, whence it is conveved by the aorta to every part of the body. without entering the venous current. Similar openings are also found in the left auricle, and in the right and left ventricles, but, in the latter, they are commonly not the termination of vessels but mere csecal depressions. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the large opening of com- municatu)n l)etween the auricle and ventricle. It is oval in form, and admits tliree fingers easily. The Eustachian valve is\a part of the apparatus of ffctal circu- lation, and serves to direct the placental blood from the inferior