52 STEUCTUKE OF LYMPHATICS. with tliose descvibed in connection with veins, consisting of one or two seniilunar folds formed by tlie lining membrane of the vessel. The large vessels cori'espond in structure to veins, and have three coats of extreme thinness ; the outer formed of delicate filn-ous tissue, the middle of unstiiped muscular fibres, and the inner of elastic tissue supporting a single layer of nucleated endothelial cells, of elongated form and with sinuous edges. The small lymphatics are very numerous, being found in evei y part of the body, in every organ, and probably existing in every tissue. They are much moi'e numerous than the veins, ljut are of microscopic size ; they form, by their commimications, complicated plexuses, the meshes of which are often exceedingly close. Theii' Avails are formed by a single layer of flattened endothelial cells "with siniious edges and nuclei which are not in tlie centre of the cells ; their tubular shape and the existence of valves serve to distinguish them from the lymphatic capillaries. Lymphatic Capillaries.—These are often larger than the smallest trunks, but are distinguished from them by the extreme irregularity of their shape and by the absence of valves. They -vary greatly in their ar- rangement in dif- ferent parts, some- times ensheathing H the blood-vessels. at others forming irregular Fig. 64.—Lymiihatic capillaries ; showing the great variation in tlieir size and shape. lacunar caAdties, or, yet again, enclosing 'the bundles of fibrous tissue in a tendon, and foi'ni- ing for them a delicate sheath. In whatever form they exist, they may be identified by i)encilling th tissue with a solution of nitrate of silver, when the endothelial cell.- are made evident by the colouration of the intercellular cementing substance. The wall is formed l)y a single layer of cells, Avhicli difter from those lining the smallest lymphatic vessels by being shorter, and having more sinuous outlines. Many lymphatic capillaries open into a system of lacunie, con- nected with each other liy ininute canals (the lymph-canaliciilar system of Recklinghausen), the lacuna) lying in an albuminous ground sul)slance, and lodging ramified cells or connective-tissue corpuscles. The contained cells constitute a sort of lining on one