796 FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. the front of the pubes. Its areolar tissue is loaded with adipose] substance, and the surface covered with hairs. ] The labia majora are two large longitudinal folds of integumentj containing areolar tissue, fat, and a tissue resembling tlie darto.?.] They enclose an elliptical hssure, the common urino-sexual openins or vulva. The vulva receives the inferior opening of the urethral and vagina, and is bounded anteriorly by the anterior commusureA and postei'iorly by the posterior commissure. Stretching across the] posterior commissure is a small transverse fold, the frcenuluml lahiormi or fourchette, which is ruptured during parturition ; and I immediately within this fold a small cavity, the fossa navicularis. The external surface of the labia is covered with hairs; the inner surface is smooth, and lined by mucous meml^rane, which contains a number of large sebaceous glands, and is covered by a thin cuticular epithelium. The mass of tissue intervening between the posterioi- commissure and anus is known as the perineal body ; superficiallj^ it is covered by skin, and is generally spoken of by the accoucheur as " the 'perineum." In median sections of the pelvic viscera it is seen to be of triangular form (Fig. 485) with its base directed outwards and its apex inwards and backwards ; it is formed of the interwoven fibres of the sphincter ani and sphincter vaginae, with a large quantity of fat, and fibrous tissue and elastic tissue. The labia minora, or nym- phse, are two smaller folds, situated within the labia majora. Superiorly they are divided into two processes, which surround the glans clitoridis, the superior fold forming the praeputium clitoridis, the inferior its fraenu- lum. Inferiorly, they diminish gradually in size, and are lost 011 the sides of the opening of tlu^ vagina. The nymphai consist of mucous membrane, co\-ered 1 ly a thin cuticular epithelium. They are pro\dded with a number of sebaceous glands, and contain, in their interior, a plexus of blood-vessels. The clitoris is a small elon- gated organ situated in front of 1 the pubes, and supported by a suspensory ligament. It is formed by a small body, analogous to tlie corpus cavernosum penis, and, like it, arises from the ramus of the os pul)is and ischium at each side by two crura. At the extremity of the clitoris is a small accumulation of erectile tissue which is highly sensitive^ and is termed the glans. Fig. 491.—External organs of generation of the female, i. Prfeputium clitoridis. 2. Clitoris. 3. Frenulum clitoridis. 4. Labium minor (N'ympha). 5. Meatus urinarius. 6.0peningof Duveruay'sgland. 7. Hymen. 8. Fourchette. g. Posterior commissure. 10. Orifice of vagina, n. Skene's tubule opening into meatus.