TEETH. 714 to the ends of the enamel fibres. In the fang tlie outer portion of the dentine—namely, that next the cement—has often a peculiai- nodular appearance (Fig. 423, b), which results from the incomplete, fusion of the calcareous masses when they are deposited. Frequent! \- also we find in this situation irregular lucunar spaces, which are filled with the same protoplasmic material as the dentinal tubules. Similar imperfect calcifications lead to the production of lamina- tion in the dentine above the pulp cavity, and of consequent parallel curved lines in the crown of the tooth called incn - mental lines. The enamel form.- a crust over the wholi- exposed surface of lin- er own of the tooth to the commencement of it< root; it is thickest ou the summit of the tooth, and becomes gradually thinner as it approaches; the neck. It is trans- lucent and bluish in thin sections, and is the hardest and most brittle it contains only about 3I per cent, of animal Fig. 425.—Longitudinal section of the eiinniel, show- ing the wavy arrangement of the fibres, and the faint transverse striations. substance in the bodj^ matter. The enamel is composed of minute fibres 5oVo^-''^ '^^^ iwch diameter, which I'un in a wavy course from the dentine to the surface of the crown, and which on cross hexagonal attached fiv, section are seen to Ih- ends they fit into the pits already described as existing on the sur- face of the dentine. The enamel fibres ai e marked at irregular in- tervals by transverse lines (Fig. 426, b), which possibly may in- dicate their formation from aggregated cell^, although this is denied by many histologi.sts, who consider them to result from the filn-es of superimposed layer? in opposite directions. The enamel is'covered by a thin membrane (composed of non-nucleated horny scales), which separates from it on the ajjplication of hydrochloric acid—this is called the cuticle of the enamel, or Nasimjth's membrane. Fki. 426.—A. Transverse seotiun of tlic ouainul, showing the fibres to be irregularly licxMgonal. u. Detached enamel fibres, more highly magiiifled than in Fig. 425. running