BRACHIAL ARTERY. septum and inosculates with the posterior interosseous recurren artery. The inferior- muscular branches of the su]jerior pi'ofuufla inosculate with the inferior profunda, auastomotica magna, and ulnar recui'i'ent. Tliis artery supplies the coraco-lirachialis, deltoid, triceps, bracliialis anticus, and the muscles attached to tlie external condyle and condylar ridge. The inferior profunda arises from about the middle of tlie brachial artery, and descends with the ulnar nerve to tlie space between the inner condyle and olecranon, where it inosculates with the posterior ulnar recurrent. It also gives a branch to the front of the internal condyle, which anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent and auastomotica magna. In its course it pierces the in- ternal intermuscular septum from Ijefore backwards. The anastomotica magna is given off nearly at right angles from the brachial, at about two inches above the joint. It passes directly inwards upon the bracliialis anticus muscle, pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and winds around the humerus to inosculate with the superior profunda. On the brachialis anticus it divides into two branches, which inosculate with the anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries, and with the inferior profunda. The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery, namely, coraco-brachialis, biceps, deltoid, brachialis anticus, and triceps. The nutrient branch is given off at about the middle of the arm, and passes into the medullary foramen near the insertion of the coraco-brachialis muscle. Varieties of the Brachial Artery.—The most frequent pecu- liarity in the distribution of branches from this artery is the high division of the radial, which arises generally from about the upper third of the brachial artery, and descends to its normal position at the bend of the elbow. The ulnar artery sometimes arises from the brachial at about two inches above the elbow, and pursues either a superficial or deep course to the wrist ; and in some instances the interosseous artery arises from the brachial a little above the bend of the elbow. The two profunda arteries occasionally arise by a common trunk, or there may be two superior profundae. Fre- quently a small branch is given off close to the origin of the superior profunda, or is derived from that vessel; it descends over the median nerve, supplies the biceps, and unites with the radial, or (less frequently) with the ulnar. It is called vas aberrans, and sometimes replaces the brachial itself. BEND OF THE ELBOW. At the bend of the elbow the brachial artery terminates by dividing into radial and ulnar ; it here lies deeply in a triangular space which is sometimes called the antecnbital fossa. This space is bounded above by an imaginary line drawn across the arm about two inches above the condyles, on the inner side by the pronator radii