RADIAL ARTERY. 411 teres, and on the 02der side by the supinator longus ; its apex is situated below, at the point where the pronator teres and supinator longus come in contact. The floor is formed by the lower part of the brachialis anticus,and the oblique fibres of the supinator brevis. The contents of the space, enumerated from within outwards, are the median nerve, brachial artery, and tlie tendon of the biceps. By displacing the supinator longus a little to the outer side, the musculo-spiral nerve and superior j)rofunda artery can be brought into view; the former here divides into radial and posterior inter- osseous nerves, and the latter anastomoses with the radial recurrent artery, but neither the nerve nor the artery are, strictly speaking, contents of the triangle. RADIAL ARTERY. The radial artery, one of the divisions of the brachial, appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of that trunk. It runs along the radial side of the forearm, from the bend of the elbow to the wrist; it then turns backwards around the base of the thumb, beneath its extensor tendons, and passes between the two heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand. It next crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar side of the hand, forming the deep palmar arch, and terminates by inosculating with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. Relations.—In the upper half of its course, the radial artery is situated between the supinator longus mviscle, by which it is slightly overlapped, and the pronator radii teres ; in the lower half between the tendons of the supinator longus and flexor carpi radialis. Plan of the Relations of the Radial Artery in the Forearm. In Front. Integument and fasciae, Supinator longus. Inner Side. Pronator radii teres, Flexor carpi radialis, Radial Artery. Outer Side. Supinator longus, Radial nerve (middle thu-d). Behind. Tendon of biceps, Supinator brevis, Pronator radii teres, Flexor sublimis digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, Pronator quadratus, Radius. At the wrist it winds round the outer side of the carpus, and lies in succession on the external lateral ligament, scaphoid, and trapezium, and is covered by the extensor tendons of the thumb, subcutaneous veins, and some twigs of the radial nerve.