INFEKIOK MAXILLARY NEEVE. 545 of the nares, and palate. Small ganglia have been described in connection with this plexus, one being placed over the canine, another over the second molar tooth ; the former has been named the ganglion of Bochdalelc. The palpebral branches are given off from the infra-orbital as it issues from the infra-orbital foramen; they turn upwards to the eyelid and are distributed to the skiii, conjunctiva, and orbicularis palpebrarum (sensory supply). The nasal branches pass inwards between the fibres of the levator labii superioris alteque nasi to be distributed to the skin of the side of the nose and the extrinsic and intrinsic muscles (sensory supply). The labial branch lies on the levator anguli oris, and divides into branches for the skin of the cheek, mucous membrane of the upper lip, and muscles of the upper lip (sensory sujD^^ly)- The INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE is a nerve both of sensation and motion, and is distributed to the teeth and gums of the lower jaw, to the tip and sides of the tongue, to the integument of the temple, external ear, lower part of the face and lower lip, and to the muscles of mastication. Its sensory root proceeds from the inferior angle of the Gasserian ganglion, is the largest of the three sensory divisions of the fifth nerve, and is increased in size by the anterior or motor root, which, passing behind the ganglion, unites with it as it escapes through the foramen ovale. Emerging at the foramen ovale the nerve divides into two trunks, anterior and j)osterior, separated from each other by the external ptery- goid muscle ; the anterior division is almost entirely motor, but its buccal branch is believed to be in chief part sensory ; the posterior division is sensory, b\it the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental is motor. The anterior division, into which may be traced nearly the whole of the motor root, immediately se^iarates into five or six liranches, distributed to the muscles of the temporo-maxillary region ; they are—masseteric, temporal, buccal, internal pterygoid, and external pterygoid. The masseteric branch passing over the external pterygoid muscle, and behind the tendon of the temporal, crosses the sigmoid notch with the masseteric artery to the niasseter muscle. It sends a filament to the temporo-maxillary articulation, and frequently a small branch to the temporal muscle. Tlie deep temporal branches, two in number, anterior and posterior, pass between the upper border of the external pterygoid muscle and the temporal bone to the temporal muscle. Two or three filaments from these nerves pierce the temporal fascia, and 'ommunicate with the lachrymal, subcutaneus malte, superficial ii'inporal and faciaVnerves. The buccal branch is of large size, and pierces the lower fibres of the external pterygoid muscle at its anterior part; it runs down- wards and forwards in close contact with the inner surface of the tendon of the temporal muscle aud accompanied by the bucca 2 M