BRANCHES OF THE INTERNAL ILIAC. 429 Branches of the Anterior Trunk. The superior vesical arteries are three or four small branches, which proceed from the pervious portion of the umbilical artery. They are distributed to the upper and middle part of the bladder. From one of these there passes off a small artery, the deferential, ■which accompanies the vas deferens to the spermatic cord. The inferior vesical, somewhat larger than the preceding, passes down upon the side of the bladder to its base, and is distributed to rhat region, the vesicular seminales, and prostate gland. The middle hsemorrhoidal artery, frequently a branch of the preceding, passes downwards to the rectum, to which it is distri- buted, inosculating with the superior and inferior ha^morrhoidal arteries. In the female it distributes branches to the A^agina. The uterine artery passes inwards between the layers of the broad ligament to the neck of the uterus, and ascends in a tortuous course along its lateral border. It gives branches to the vagina, lower part of the bladder, Fallopian tube (htharia), ovary (ovaria), and round ligament, and inosculates with the spermatic or ovarian artery. The vaginal artery corresponds in position with the inferior vesical in the male, and is distributed to the vagina and neighbour- ing parts of the bladder and rectum. The OBTURATOR ARTERY (arising frequently from the posterior trunk of the internal iliac) passes forwards from the ante- rior trunk, a little below the brim of the pelvis, to the upper border of the obturator fora- men. Escaping from the pel- vis through a tendinous arch formed by the obturator mem- brane, it divides into two branches, internal and exter- nal. Its branches within the pel- vis are—an iliac branch, which supplies the bone of the iliac fossa, and inosculates with the ilio-lumbar arteiy ; and a Fig. 264.-irregular origin of obturator artery jnibic branch which is given epigastric. Second variety internal off close to the obturator fora- """'^'^ men, and inosculates with its fellow of the opposite side, behind the pubes, and with the pubic branch of the deep epigastric artery. The lyiternal branch curves inwards around the bony margin "of the obturator foramen, and distributes twigs to the obturator and adductor muscles, inosculating with the internal circumflex artery of the femoral. The external branch winds around the outer margin of the obturator