LIGAMENTS OF THE STEENUM. 193 The ninth and tenth are connected at their extremity by liga- mentous fibres, but have no synovial membrane. Actions. The movements of the chondro-sternal articulations are very trifling, being limited to a slight degree of gliding motion. The first rib is the least, the second the most movable. 8. ARTICULATIONS OF THE RIBS WITH THE COSTAL CARTI- LAGES.—The anterior extremity of each rib is excavated, so as to receive the convex outer end of the costal cartilage ; there is no true ligament, but the periosteum is prolonged on the cartilage, and takes the place of one. No motion takes place at this articulation. 9. ARTICULATIONS OF THE STERNUM. — The pieces of the sternum are connected by means of a thin plate of interosseous cartilage placed between each, and by an anterior and posterior ligament. The fibres of the anterior sternal ligament are longi- tudinal in direction, but so blended -nath the anterior chondro-sternal ligaments and tendinous fibres of origin of the pectoral muscles, as scarcely to be distinguished as a distinct ligament. The posterior sternal ligament is a broad smooth plane of longitudinal fibres, placed on the posterior surface of the bone, and extending from the manubrium to the ensiform cartilage. These ligaments contribute very materially to the strength of the sternum and elasticity of the front of the chest; their continuation downwards on the ensiform cartilage constitutes the sterno-xyphoid ligaments. 10. ARTICULATION OF THE VERTEBRAL COLUMN WITH THE PELVIS.—The last lumbar vertebra is connected with the sacrum by the same ligaments as those with which the various vertebrae are connected to each other : viz., anterior and posterior common liga- ment, intervertebral substance, ligamenta subflava, capsular liga- ments, interspinous and supraspinous ligament. There are, however, tivo proper ligaments connecting the vertebral column with the pelvis ; these are the Sacro-lumbar, Ilio-lumbar. The sacro-lumbar or sacro-vertebral ligament is a thick triangular fasciculus of ligamentous fibres, connected above with the lower and front part of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, and below with the uj^per border of the sacrum, becoming blended with the anterioi' sacro-iliac ligament. The ilio lumbar ligament passes from the apex of the transverse j)rocess of the last lumbar vertebra to that part of the crest of the ilium which surmounts the sacro-iliac articulation. It is triangular : in form, and gives origin to the quadratus lumborum and a few ' fibres of the iliacus muscle. 11. ARTICULATIONS OF THE PELVIS.—The ligaments of the I articulations of the pelvis are divisible into four groups : (i) Those t connecting the sacrum, and ilium; (2) those passing between the sacrum and ischium; (3) between the sacrum and coccyx; and (4) ) between the two puhic bones. N