368 FLEXOR MUSCLES OF THE LEG. Relations.—By its mpcrjicial surface with a thick fascia whicli separates it from the gastrocnemius, plantaris, and popliteal vessels and nerve. By its deap surface with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint, and upper part of the tibia. Nerve-supply.—Internal po pi itcal. The FLEXOR LONGUS H ALLUCIS is the most superficial of the next three muscles. It arises from the lower two-thirds of the internal surface of the fibula excepting about an inch at its lowest The FLEXOR LONGUS DIGITORUM (flexor perforans) arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, extending from the oblique line to within three inches of the inner ankle. Its tendon passes through a sheath, common to it and the tibialis posticus, behind the inner malleolus ; it then passes through a second sheath which is con- nected with a groove in the astragalus and os calcis into the sole of the foot, where it divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the four lesser toes, perforating the tendons of the flexor brevis digitorum. Fig. 244.—Deep Layer of muscles of the posterior tibial re- gion. I. Lower ex- tremity of the femur. 2. Ligamentum posti- cum Winslowii. 3. Tendon of the semi- membranosus muscle dividing into three slips. 4. Internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. 5. External lateral liga- ment. 6. Popliteus muscle. 7. Flexor longus digitorum. 8. Tibialis posticus, g. Flexor longus hal- lucis. 10. Peroneus longus. II. Peroneus brevis. 12. Tendo- Achillis divided near its insertion into the OS calcis. 13. Ten- dons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, just as they are about to pass beneath the internal annular liga- ment of the ankle; the interval between the latter tendon and the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis is for the posterior tibi.al vessels and nerve. part, and passes through a groove in the astragalu;^ and OS calcis, converted by tendinous fibres into a distinct sheath lined by synovial membrane, into the sole of the foot, to be inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the great toe. 10 Relations. — By its superficial surface with the intermuscular fascia, whicli separates it from the soleus and tendo-Achillis. By its deep surface "vvith the tibialis posticus, fibula, peroneal vessels, inter- osseous membrane, and ankle-joint. By its outer border with, the peroneus longus and bre\'is. By its inrier border with the Hexor longus digitorum. In the foot, the tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis is connected with that of the flexor longus digi- torum hj a short tendinous slip. Nerve - supply. — Pos- terior tibial nerve.