TIBIALIS ANTICUS. nous expansion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with the ciuad- ratus femoiis, adductor niagnus, internal head of gastrocnemius knee-joint (from which it is separated by a synovial membrane), and the i)opliteal artery and vein. By its inner harder with the gracilis By its oxder harder with the great ischiatic nerve, and m the popliteal space the popliteal artery and vein. Nerve-supply.—Great sciatic nerve. If the senii-membranosus muscle be turned down from its origin, the student will bring into view the broad and radiated expanse of the adductor magnus, against which the three flexor muscles above described rest. Actions.—The three ham-string muscles are flexors of the leg upon the thigh ; and taking tlieir flxed point from below they extend the pelvis, and balance it on the lower extremities. The biceps, from the obliquity of its direction, everts tlie leg when partly flexed, and the semi-teiidinosus turns the leg inwards when in the same state of flexion. Cleland has pointed out that tlie ham-string muscles limit flexion at the hip as long as the knee is extended ; so that it is only by flexing the leg on the thigh that it is possible completely to flex the thigh on the abdomen. Anterior Tibial Region. Tibialis anticus, Extensor longus digitoruin, Peroneus tertius, Extensor proprius hallucis. Dissection.—The dissection of the anterior tibial region is to be commenced by carrying an incision along the middle of the leg midAvay between the tibia and fibula, from, the knee to the ankle, and bounding it inferiorly by a transverse incision extending from one malleolus to the other. To expose the tendons on the dorsum of the foot, the longitudinal incision may be carried onwards to the outer side of the base of the great toe, and terminated by another incision directed across the heads of the metatarsal bones. The TIBIALIS ANTICUS arises from the outer tuberosity and upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the tibia, the interosseous membrane, intermuscular fascia, and deep fascia ; its tendon passes tlirough a distinct sheath in the anterior annular ligament close to the inner border of the tibia, and is inserted into the inner and under side of the internal cuneiform bone, and base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Relations.—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia from which many of its superior fibres arise, and the anterior annular ligament. By its piosterior surface with the interosseous membrane, tibia, ankle-joint, and bones of the tarsus. By its internal surface with the tibia ; by its external surface with the extensor longus digito- rum; extensor proprius hallucis, and anterior tibial vessels and nerve.