548 CRANIAL NERVES. splienoidal fissure it passes between the two heads of the external rectus, and is distributed to that muscle. At the sphenoidal lissui-e it lies upon tlie ophthalmic vein, from wliicli it is separated by a lamina of dura mater ; and in the cavernous sinus is joined b several fihxments from the carotid plexus. Deep Origin.—Underneath the fasciculus teres in tlie floor of the fourth ventricle, immediately above the striae acusticse. SEVENTH PAIR. The seventh and eighth pairs of nerves consist of two nervous cords which lie side by side on the posterior border of the crus cerebelli in the groove between the olivary and restiform Ijodies. The smaller and most internal of these, and at the same time the most dense in texture, is the seventh {facial nerve or 2^ortio dura). The external nerve, which is soft and pulpy, and often grooved by contact with the preceding, is the eighth or auditory nerve (portio mollis). A third nerve of small size, portio intermedia of Wrisberg, is brought into view by separating these two cords. It arises from the same nucleus as the auditory nerve, and generally joins the facial nerve where the two lie together in the internal audi- tory meatus. Some observers state that it is continued into the chorda tympani nei-ve l^eyond the gangliform enlargement of the facial. FACIAL OR SEVENTH NERVE (pDrtio dura).—The facial nerve, the motor nerve of the face, arises from the upper part of the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies, close to the lower edge of the i^ons Varolii; its deep origin being traced to the for- matio reticularis of the pons, beneath the floor of the fom-th ventricle. The nerve jDasses forward, resting on the crus cerebelli, and comes into relation with the auditory nerve, with which it enters the meatus auditorius internus, lying at first to the inner side of, and then upon that nerve. At the bottom of the meatus, the facial nerve enters the aqueductus Fallopii, and takes its course forwards to the hiatus Fallo])ii, in the anterior wall of the petrous bone, where it forms a gangliform swelling (intumescentia gangli- formis, geniculate ganglion), and receives the petrosal Ijranch of the Vidian nerve. It tlien runs aloug the inner wall of the tym- panum, and descends behind the pyramid and tympanic cavity to the stylo-mastoid foramen. Emerging at the stylo-mastoid foramen, it passes forwards within the parotid gland, crossing the external carotid artery, to the ramus of the lower jaw, where it splits into two trunks, temporo-facial and cervico-facial. These trunks divide into numerous branches, which escape from the anterim border of the parotid gland, and are distributed in a radiated manner over the side of the face, from the temple to IteloAV tlu' lower jaw; on the masseter muscle the branches communicate au'l form loops, and the whole arrangement over the side of the fate has been termed pes anserinus.