620 ORGANS OF SENSE. and becomes pale. It is studded with fine hairs, and consists of a dozen racemose sebaceous glands, with some few fat cells intei- mingled, a few fibres of unstriped muscle, and a covering of mucous membrane. Immediately to the outer side of the caruncula is a slight dupli- cature of the conjunctiva, called plica semilunaris ; it is simply a fold of conjunctiva, and is the rudiment of the third lid or mem- brana niditans of Ijirds. Vessels and Nerves.—The eyelids and other appendages of the eye are supplied with blood by the nasal, palpebral, and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic, and the angular branch of the facial artery. The nerves are derived from the facial and fifth nerves. LACHRYMAL APPARATUS. The lachrymal apparatus consists of the lachrymal gland with its excretory ducts ; the puncta lachrymalia and lachrymal canalicidi; the lachrymal sac and nasal duct. The lachrymal gland is situated at the upper end and outer part of the orbit, in a dejsression of the orbital plate of the frontal bone, with the periosteum of which bone it is connected by fibrous bands ; by its under surface it is in relation with the globe of the eye, and the superior and external rectus muscles. It is oval in shape, about three-quarters of an inch long, convex on its upper and concave on its under surface. The anterior portion is frequently sejsarated from the rest by a slight depression, and is then described as the 'palpebral portion {accessory gland of Rosenmiiller); it is situated in the ujiper eyelid, and extends downwards to the suj^erior margin of the tarsal cartilage. The gland consists of a number of aggregated racemose glands similar in structure to the salivary and mucous glands. The secretion is conveyed away by from eight to twelve small ducts whicli run for a short distance beneath the conjunctiva, and open on its surface by separate orifices, about a twentieth of an inch apart, the greater number in the fold above the outer canthus, and two of them in the fold below. The lachrymal canaliculi commence at the minute openings, puncta lachrymalia, seen on the lachrymal ]mpiUa3 of the lids at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis, and proceed inwards to the lachrymal sac, where tliey terminate beneath a valvular semilunar fold of mucous membrane {valve of HuschJce). The superior duct is the narrower and longer of the two ; it at first ascends and then suddenly turns inwards towards the sac, forming an abrupt angle. The inferior duct forms the same kind of angle by descending at first and then turning abruptly inwards. Both canals are dilated where they are bent. A valve-like projection {valve of Foltz) has been described as projecting from the side into the interior of the vertical portion of each canaliculus near the punctum lachrymale ; it seems to be sufiicient to close the tube completely when it is flattened by the orbicidaris and tensor tarsi muscles. It no doubt