ETHMOID BONE. io6 llie lateral masses or labyrinths are divisiljle into an internal and external surface, and lour Ijordei's, superior, inferior, anterior and posterior. ' The infernal surface is rough, sliglitly convex, and forms the- external boundary of the upper part of tlie nasal fossae. Towards tlie posterior liorder of this surface is a narrow horizontal fissure, the mjmior meatus of the nose ; the u])pei' niai-gin of tliis fissure is tliin, and somewhat curled inwards ; hence it is named the superior turbinated bone. Below the meatus is the convex surface of another thin plate, which is curled outwai'ds, and forms the lower border of the mass, the middle turbinated bone. The external surface is quadrilateral and smooth ; hence it is named os jjlanum; it enters into the formation of the inner wall of the orbit. The superior border is uneven and cellular, the cells being com- pleted by the edges of the ethmoidal fissure of the frontal bone. This border is crossed by two grooves, sometimes complete canals, opening into the orl)it by the anterior and jjosterior internal orbital foramina. The inferior- border is formed internally by the lower border of the middle turbinated bone, and externally by a concave irregular fossa, the upper boundary of the middle meatus. The anterior border presents a number of incomplete cells, Avhich are closed by the superior maxillaiy and lachrymal bones ; the posterior border is irregularly cellular, to articulate with the sphenoid and palate bone. From the anterior part of each lateral mass an irre- gular plate of bone descends backwards, terminating in a hook-like extremity : this is called the unciform process. It assists in closing the orifice of the antrum, and articulates with the ethmoidal pro- cess of the inferior turbinated bone. The lateral masses are composed of cells, divided by a thin j)ar- tition into anterior and posterior ethmoidal cells. The anterior, the most numerous, communicate with the frontal sinuses, and open by means of an irregular and incomplete tubular canal, the infundi- bulum, into the middle meatus. The posterior cells, fewer in nimiber, open into the superior meatus. Development.—By three centres : one for each lateral mass, and one for the perpendicular lamella. Ossification commences in the lateral masses at about the beginning of the fifth month, appearing first in the os planum, and then in the turbinated bones. At birth the bone merely consists of two ill-developed lateral masses. Dm-ing the latter half of the first year after birth, the central lamella and cribriform plate begin to ossify, and are united to the lateral masses by the beginning of tlie second year. The cells of the ethmoid are developed in the course of the fourth and fifth year. Articulations.—With thirteen bones : two of the cranium, frontal and sphenoid ; and eleven of the face, viz., two nasal, two superior maxillary, two lachrymal, two j)alate, two inferior turbinated, and vomer. No muscles are attached to this bone.