478 LYMPHATICS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. y Vessels.—The superficial lymphatic vessels are divisible into two groupie, internal and external; the internal and principal group, commencing on the dor- sum and inner side of the foot, ascend the leg by the side of the internal sa- phena vein, and, passing behind the innei' condyle of the femur, follow the direc- tion of that vein to the groin, where they join the femoral group of super- ficial inguinal glands. The greater part of the efferent vessels from these glands pierce the cribriform fascia of the sa- l^henous ojDening and the sheath of the femoral vessels, to join the lymphatic gland situated in the crural ring, which serves to establish a communication be- tween the lymphatics of the lower extre- mity and those of the trunk. The other efferent vessels j)ierce the fascia lata to join the deep glands. The vessels which pass upwards from the outer side of the dorsum of the foot ascend along the outer side of the leg, and curve inwards across the front of the leg just below the knee, to unite with the lymphatics of the inner side of the thigh. The external group consists of a few lymjjhatic vessels which commence on the outer side of the foot and posterior part of the ankle, and accom- pany the external saphena vein to the popliteal region, where they enter the popliteal glands. The deep lymphatic vessels accom- pany the deep veins, and communicate Avith the various glands in their course. After joining the deep inguinal glands they pass beneath Poupart's ligament, to communicate with the numerous glands situated around the iliac vessels. The deep lymphatics of the gluteal region follow the course of the branches of the gluteal and iscliiatic veins. The former join the glands sitiuxted on the upjjer border of tlie pyriformis muscle, and the latter, after communicating with the lymphatics of the thigh, enter the iscliiatic glands. Tig. 287.—Superficial lymphatic vessels and glands of the front and inner side of the leg.