112 MALAR BONES. two jiovtions, one of wliich is Hat and enters into the formation of the orlnt, hence may l^e called the orbital portion ; the otlier is con- cave, and lodges the lachrymal sac, hence the lachrymal portion. The crest is expanded inferiorly into a hook-shaped process (liamulus lachryinalis), which forms part of the outer boundary of the lachi-ymal groove. The internal surface is uneven, and completes the anterior ethmoidal cells ; it assists also in forming the wall of the nasal fossae. The upper border articulates with the frontal bone, the anterior border with the nasal process of the superior maxillary, and the posterior border with tlie os planum of the ethmoid. The lower border is divided into two portions by the vertical crest; the posterior part articulates with the orbital plate of the superior maxillary ; the anterior part is prolonged downwards (descending process) and joins the lachrymal process of the inferior turbinated. Development.—By a single centre, appearing in the early part of the third month. Articulations.—With four bones; two of the cranium, frontal and ethmoid ; and two of the face, superior maxillary and inferior turbinated bone. Attachment of Muscles.—To one muscle, the tensor tarsi, and to an expansion of the tendo oculi. MALAR BONES. The malar {os jugale) is the strong quadrangular bone which forms the prominence of the cheek. It is divisible into an external Fig. 112.—5Ialar bone of the right side. i. Ex- ternal surface. 2. Opening for an artery and nerve. 3. Frontal process. 4. Outer border of the orbit. 5. Inferior border of the orbit. 6, 6. Mfixillarj' process. 7. Zygomatic process. 8. Postero-superior border, to which the tem- poral fascia is attached. 9, 9. Postero-inferior border, from which the masseter muscle arises. and internal surface, and four processes, frontal, orbital, maxillary, and zycTomatic. The external surface is smooth and convex {malar tuberosity) ; it gives origin to the zygomaticus major and minor muscles, and is pierced by several small openings, which give pas,^Tge to filaments of the teinporo-malar nei've and minute arteries. Ihe internal surface is concave, partly smooth and partly rough ; smoo^^ where it forms part of the temporal fossa, and rough where it articu- lates with the superior maxillary bone. In well-marked bones a