755 STKUCTURE OF THE SPLEEN. it. In structure they correspond closely to the lymphoid masses described as forming the tonsils, the solitary and agminate glands of the intestine, and tlie lymph nodules of the lymphatic glands, bein"' composed of retiform tissue supporting innumerable round lymphoid cells. The cells of the retiform tissue are intimately connected with the supporting cells of tlie pulp. The outer coat of the smaller arteries is, throughout the whole of their ramifications in the spleen, converted into lyjnphoid tissue, so that the Malpighian corpuscles are but thicker aggregations of this tissue at certain parts of the course of the vessel. Arrangement of the Vessels of the Spleen.—The s'plenic artery is of very large size in proportion to the bulk of tlie spleen ; it is a division of the cceliac axis. The branches which enter tlie S23leen are distributed to dis- tinct sections of the organ, and anastomose very sparingly Avith each other ; they ter- minate in elegant bundles or pencilli of minute straight ar- teries, which end in capillaries. The latter, after running for a short distance, lose their tubular char- acter, and the cells which form their walls become branched and communicate freely with the branched cells of the SUJiporting ^^^^ lymphoid tissue of the Malpighian bcidy, reticulum of tlie pulp ; the contained blood comes thus to flow directly into the interstices of the lattei'. The vei7is commence in like manner by capillaries, the cells forming the walls of which are continuous Avith those of the pulp ; as we trace them outwards tliey assume the tubular character and anastomose freely witli each other in the meshes of the trabeculaj, thus dift'ering'from the arteries between which, in the sul)stance of the spleen, the anastomoses are few From tins description it will be seen that the arteries terminate and the veins commence in capillaries wliich are in direct communication with the pulp, so that the blood, in oi'der to pass from the one to the other, has to traverse it. There are, however, a few arterial canil lanes m tlie trabecule and capsule of the spleen which terminate in the veins in the usual manner. The lymphatics of the spleen are in two sets—trabemlar and pcnvascular; the iormer run in the trabecula) and communicate Fig. 462.—Scclion of spleen, showing a .Malpighian body. b. Injecti'd capillaricti. c. Artery entering