748 LIVER. I exception of ilieir bases and those extremities of tlie suiK-i-ficiar lobules wliich appear on the surfaces of the liver. The lobular branches are derived from the interlobular veins ; they form a plexus within each lobule, and converge from the circumference towards the centre, where they terminate in the minute radicles oi the intralobular vein. This plexus, interposed between the iut<-i'- lobular portal veins and the intralobular hepatic vein, constitutes the venous part of the lobule, ajid is called the lobular venous plexus. The regular islets of the substance of the loljules, seen between the meshes of this jilexus by means of the microscope, are the network of hepatic cells. The portal vein returns the venous blood from the chylopoiclic viscera, to be circulated through the lobules ; it also receives the blood which results from the distribution of the hepatic artery. The hepatic artery enters the liver with the portal vein and hepatic duct, and ramifies with those vessels through the i)orfal canals. Its branches are—vaginal, interlobular, and capsular. The vaginal branches, like those of the portal vein and hejiatic duct, form a vaginal plexus, which exists throughout the whole extent of the portal canals, with the exception of that side of the smaller canals which corresponds with the artery. The interlobular branches, arising from the vaginal plexus and from the parietal side of the artery (in the smaller canals), ramify through the inter- lobular fissures, and are principally distributed to the coats of the interlobular ducts. The capsular branches ramify within the capsule, accompanied by small veii;is. The hepatic veins commence in the substance of each lobule by minute venules, which receive the blood from the lobular venous plexus, and converge to form the intralobular vein. The intra- lobular vein passes through the central axis of the lobule, and through the middle of its base, to terminate in a sublobular vein; and the union of the sublol^ular veins constitutes the hepatic trunks, which open into the inferior A'ena cava. The hepatic trunks are formed by the union of the sublobular veins ; they have very thin walls and are in almost immediate contact with the lobules, even the larger veins being only separated by a small quantity of areolar tissue. They proceed from before backwards, and terminate, by two large openings (corresponding with the right and left lobe of the liver) and several smaller apertures, in the inferior vena cava. Biliary Capillaries and Ducts.—The biliary capillaries begin as minute jDassages between the sides of contiguous bile-cells, in Avhich no definite wall has hitherto been demonstrated. They apjiear to communicate by minute channels with vacuoles in the cells themselves. The bile capillaries form a fine i)lexus through- out the whole of the lobule, lobular plexus of ducts, and on reaching the circumference thereof, form a second plexus on its exterior, the interlobular plexus of ducts. From this plexus ducts are derived which run in the portal canals, being placed in each case on the same side as the hepatic artery, and surrounded