155 OS INNOMINATUM. Below this is a third ridge called the inferior curved hne, commencing lust above the anterior inferior spine, and terminating at the lower part of the greater sacro-ischiatic notch. The surface included between the superior and middle curved lines gives origin to the gluteus medius muscle ; that between the middle and inferior curved lines, to the «^luteus minimus ; and the rough interval between the inferior curved^ line and the arch of the acetabulum, to one head of the The crest of the ilium is arched, and curved in direction like the italic letter /, being bent inwards at its anterior termination, and outwards at the posterior. It is broad for the attachment of three planes of muscle, which are connected with its external and internal border or lip, and with the intermediate space. On its outer lip, at about midway between tlie anterior superior spinous process and the summit of the crest, is a prominent tubercle, from which a strong vid^e runs down to the acetalnilum. This is the broadest part of the*'crest, and the descending ridge serves as a luittress in giving strength to the bone. The anterior border is marked by two prominences, the anterior superior spinous process, which is the anterior termination of the crest, and the anterior inferior spinous process ; the first of these and the space beneath it give attachment to Poupart's ligament and the sartorius muscle, the second to one head of the rectus. This bordei- terminates inferioiiy in the lip of the acetal)ulum. The posterior border also presents two prominences, the 'jwsterior superior and posterior inferior spinous process, separated by a notch ; tlie former gives attaclimeiit to the oblique sacro-iliac ligament, the latter to the greater sacro-ischiatic ligament. Iiiferiorly this border is broad and arched, and forms the upper part of the great sacro-ischiatic notch. The Ischium is divisible into a thick and solid portion, the body, and a thin and ascending part, the ramus ; it may be considered also, for convenience of description, as presenting an external and internal surface, and three borders, posterior, inferior, and superior. The external surface is rough and uneven for the attachment of muscles; and broad and smooth above, where it enters into the formation of tlie acetabulum. Below the inferior lip of the aceta- bulum is a notch which lodges the obturator exteriius muscle in its passage outwai-ds to the trochanteric fossa of the femur. The internal surface is smooth, and somewhat encroached upon at its posterior border by the spine ; it is separated by the pectineal line from tlie concave inner surface of the ilium, and is chiefly occupied by the origin of the ol)turator internus. The posterior border of the ischium presents toAvards its middle a remarkable projection, the spine, which is directed backwards and inwards, and gives origin by its inner surface to two muscles, the coccygeus and levator ani. Immediately above the spine is a notch of large size, tlie great sacro-ischiatic, and below tlie spine, the lesser sacro-ischiatic notch; the former, being converted into a foramen by