598 SYMPATHETIC NERVES. artery ; and is surrounded by adipose tissue, which renders its dis- section somewhat difficult. It is of a reddish-grey colour, like other sympathetic ganglia. Its branches of distribution are the short ciliary nerves, whicli arise from its anterior angles in two groups ; the upper group con- sisting of about four filaments ; the lower, of five or six. They accompany the ciliary arteries in a waving course, and divide into filaments which pierce the sclerotic around the optic nerve to supply Fio. 345.—Cranial ganglia of the sympathetic nerve, i. Gan- glion of Ribes. 2. Filament by which it com- municates with the carotid plex- us (3). 4. Oph- thalmic or lenti- cular ganglion, giving off ciliary branches. 5. Part of the inferior division of the third nerve com- municating with the ganglion by means of a short thick branch (short root). 6. Part of the nasal nerve, connected with the gan- glion by means of a longer branch ,. (long root). 7. A ^''^'^^ slender filament (the sympathetic root) from the carotid plexus. 8. Part of the sixth nerve in the cavernous sinus, receiving two branches from the carotid plexus. 9. Meckel's ganglion (spheno-palatine). 10. Spheno-palatine nerves. 11. Descending pala- tine branches. 12. Its internal or nasal branches. 13. Naso-palatine loranch, one of the nasal branches. 14. Posterior branch of tlie ganglion, the Vidian nerve, ts. Its cai'otid branch, communicating with the carotid plexus. 16. Its peti-osal branch, joining the intumeseentia gangliformis of the facial nerve. 17. Facial nerve. 18. Chorda tympani nerve, descending to join the lingual nerve. 19. Lingual nerve. 20. Submaxillary ganglion, receiving filaments from the chorda tympani and lingual. 21. Superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. * Nfiso- palatine ganglion of Cloquet. the tunics of the eyeball, the greater number of them being traceable to the iris and ciliary processes. Its branches of communication are three : one, the long root, proceeds from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve and joins its superior angle ; a short and thick branch, the short root, from the inferior division of the third nerve to its inferior angle ; and a slender filament, the sympathetic root, from the cavernous j^lexus, which accompanies the long root to the ganglion. Occasionally the ophthalmic ganglion receives also a filament of communication from the spheno-palatine ganglion ; and sometimes from the abduceiis nerve.