685 TRACHEA. between the extremities of the rings behind. They are placed internally to the fibrous membrane. Outside the circular fibres are bundles within the rings, and internally to the muscular layer behind. It is most developed opposite the bifurcation of the trachea. The mucous membrane, which is pale, forms the internal lining of the tube, and has ojjening upon its surface the excretory tubes of numerous mucous glands, the glands themselves lying external to the muscular coat; it is furnished with a ciliated columnar epithelium, continuous Avith that of the larynx above and the bronchial tubes below. Beneath the columnar cells and surround- ing their bases is a collection of small irregular cells {Debove's layer), many of which become distended with mucus and form goblet cells. The mucous membrane contains a large amount of lymphoid tissue. The mucous glands are small ovoid bodies situated between the fibrous membrane and the muscular layer behind, and in the sub- stance of the fibrous membrane between the rings. Their ducts open upon the mucous membrane. Nerves.—The nerves of the trachea are derived from the vagus and its recurrent branch ; they form a fine gangliated plexus on the outside of the muscular coat, the nerve filaments becoming non- medullated. The bronchi correspond very closely in structure with the trachea ; the cartilaginous rings are deficient behind, as in that tube ; there are usually six to eight rings in the right bronchus and ten to twelve in the left. The right bronchus is the more horizontal of the two, but it is shorter than the left; it is larger, and is more directly continuous with the trachea, so that foreign bodies getting into the windpipe commonly pass into the right bronchus. The right gives off a branch above the pulmonary artery {eparterial bronchus) as well as branches ■below Qiyf arterial); the left gives off the latter only. The thyroid body consists of two lobes, placed one on each side of the trachea, and connected with eacli other by means of an isthmus, wliich crosses its upper rings, usually the third and fourth ; but in this respect there is some variety, a point necessary to be remembered a few running longitudi- nally ; they are connected with the inner surface of the ends of the rings, and wdth the external fibrous mem- brane. The elastic tissue forms the submucous tissue, and is disposed in longitudinal THYROID BODY.