S3 STRUCTURE OF LYMPHATICS. side of the lacuna, and are coiitinnoiif* with the endothelial cells of the lymphatic capillary with which the lacuna is connected. The lymph-canalicular system is almost the only representative of the lymphatics in the cornea, the grey and white matter of the brain and spinal cord, and in cartilage. In tendon, fascire, mnscle of both kinds, and ner\'es, the lymphatics are found as continuous clefts or longitudinal spaces between the connective-tissue bundles or the propel' fibres of the tissue. In areolar tissue they form the areola) or intersjDaces which we have described on a previous page as characterising that tissiie ; and in the nervous centres they form spaces or sheaths around the blood-vessels, which have been named perivasmlar lynifli spaces. The lymiDhatics of serous membranes are tery numerous, and have a complicated ari-angement which cannot here be fully described ; the most important features are, fii\st, that there are frequent invaginations of the blood-vessels, either by lymphatic tubes or by an intercommxinicating system of lympli sinuses lined with endothelium ; and, second, that the lymphati(; capillaries communicate with the surface of the serous meml)rane by means of openings called stomata, Avhich are bordered by ger- minating ejiithelium differing in character fi'om tlie cells which form the surface of the membrane. The germinating cells when ripe l)ecome detached, and form free lymph cells. It will be thus seen that there are two chief forms in which the lymphatics originate, namely, by sj^aces or sinuses lined by a com- plete endothelium and by irregular lacunae, lined only on one side by a branched connective-tissue cell. Lymphatic Glands (aljsorbent glands) are small, oval ov hean- .shaped, flattened or rounded bodies, of a reddish-bi'own colour, placed at short inter\-als in the course of the small lyjnphatic vessels. They are found in groups in the axilla, popliteal space, groin, lumbar region of the abdomen, round the root of the lungs, and in the neck, and are joined together by means of the lyni]ihatic vessels which enter or leave them. Each gland presents externally the appeai'ance of being com- posed of lobulea, and generally has at one side a slight depression or hilus, through which the blood-vessels enter the interior. The lymphatic vessels connected with the gland consist of a large one apparently issuing from the very centre of the gland, called vas efferens, and numerous smaller ones passing into the interior at different i)arts of the periphery, each of these being called a vas afferem. On sec^tion the extei-nal pai't of the gland is found to be of a different colour and consistence to the intei'ior, and hence the two parts are distinguished as cortical and mednllary. The gland is surrounded by a capsule which is continuous with the outer coat of the afferent and efferent vessels ; it is formed of Avhite fibrous tissue, the fibres crossing each other in different directions, and enclosing connective-tissue corimscles in their meshes. At the hilus the fil)res ot the capsule are continued into the interior of the gland, the fibrous tissue becomes mixed with a small (piantitv of unsti-iped