6i SECRETING GLANDS. Fig. 72. —I. Simplefollicle. 2. Tubular gland. 3. Saccular glaud. these three undergo ^'arious modifications in the different glands. In most of tlie glands the cells are of a spheroidal or irregular cubical form, and the supporting tissue is reduced to a basement mem- brane. Glands may lie divided into six forms, three of them being described as sini2)le, and tlii'ee as compound. The former are the simple follicle, saccvde, and tul )ule; the latter the compound follicle, saccule, and tuljule. The simple follicle is merely a dejjression, resembling in shape the finger of a glove, and lined with cells mostly of the columnar variety, but with some granular spheroidal cells intermixed. The narrow ca^dty between the cells is called the lumen of the gland. The best examples of this foi'm of gland are to l)e found in the small intestines, Avhere they are called Lieberkuhn's follicles. The simple tubule is an elongated follicle, the deeply seated end becoming convoluted like a ball of twine ; the upper ])art of the tulje is lined with squamous, and the lower with cubical epithelium. The sweat glands of the skin are examples of tlie simple tubular gland. Tlic simple saccule is a pouch-like sac, dilated below, and cou- Fic. 73.—I. Compouud follicle. 2. Compound tubular gland. 3. Comj)ound saccular or racemose gland. nected with tlie surface above by a narrow neck. The saccule is crowded with cells, chiefly of spheroidal form, so that little or no free cavity or lumen is left. The sebaceous glands connected with the hair follicles of the skin are examples of this form of gland. The compound follicular gland is a follicle, the termination of ■\vhich is cleft into two or three divisions. The gastric follicles near the pyloric end of the stomach have this form. The compound tubular gland consists of branching tubules wliich become convoluted at their deep extremity. This arrange- ment may l)e observed in the tubuli ui-iniferi of the kidnev and seiiiiual tubules of the testicle. Tlie compound saccule is better known under the title of race-