SYMPATHETIC NEEVES. 6o6 (sometimes wanting), the cardiac ganglion of Wrisberg, whiclj lies close to the right side of the fibi'ous cord of the ductus arteri- osus. The superficial cardiac plexus gives off filaments which pans along the front of the left pulmonary artery to the root of the left lung, where they communicate with the anterior pulmonary plexus ; while the principal part of the plexus descends in the groove l)etweeii the pulmonary artery and aorta to the anterior longitudinal stdm^ of the heart, where it comes into relation with tlie anterior coronar}' artery, and becomes the anterior coronary plexus. At the base of the heart, the anterior coronary plexus receives several filaments from the deep cardiac j)lexus. Its branches are distributed to the substance of the heart in the course of the left or anterior coronary artery. The DEEP or GREAT CARDIAC PLEXUS is situated on the bifur- cation of the trachea, above the right pulmonary artery and behind the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta. It receives on the right side the three cardiac nerves of the sympathetic of the same side, and the cardiac branches of the right pneumogastric and right recurrent nerve. On the left side it receives the middle and in- ferior cardiac nerves of the sympathetic of the left side ; the cardiac branches of the left pneumogastric (excepting the inferior), and several cardiac branches from the left recurrent nerve. Filaments also pass to this plexus from the first and second thoracic ganglia of both sides. It will be noted that the deejj cardiac plexus receives all the cardiac filaments of the sympathetic, pneumogastric, and recurrent nerves, with the exception of the left superior cardiac of the sym- 23athetic (nervus superficialis cordis) and the inferior cervical cardiac of the left pneumogastric, these two nerves being destined to the superficial cardiac plexus. The branches of the deep cardiac plexus, proceeding from its right and left division, j)ass downwards to join the coronary arteries, and outwards to the pulmonary plexuses. From the right division of the plexus the branches j^roceed- before and behind the right pulmonary artery. Those which pass in front descend upon the trunk of the j)ulmonary artery to the left coronary artery, and help to form the anterior coronary jolexnsy those which pass behind the right pulmonary artery ai'e distributed to the right auricle ; a third set of filaments, proceeding from the right division of the deep cardiac plexus, follow the course of the right pulmonary artery to the anterior pulmonaiy j)lexus. From the left division of the plexus branches proceed beneath the arch of the aorta immediately to the right of tlie ligament of the ductus arteriosus to join the superficial cardiac plexus; others pass outwards with the ])ulmonary artery to the pulmonary j)lexus ; a few descend to the left auricle ; but the chief bulk pass on to the right coronary artery and form the posterior coronary jylexm. The anterior coronary plexus proceeds from tlie superficial cardiac plexus, and receives other filaments from the deep cardiac