LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA. 200 tous fibres, passing obliquely between the base of the coracoid process and the under surface of the clavicle, and holding the end of the clavicle in firm connection with the scapula. It is divisible into two parts, an anterior and external called" trapezoid, and a posterior and internal called conoid. The trapezoid portion is seen best from the front; it is attached below to the upper surface of the coracoid process and above to the oblique line on the under surface of the clavicle ; its anterior border is free, its posterior joins with the conoid portion. The conoid ligament has its base directed upwards and attached to the conoid tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle ; its apex is inserted into a rough process at the base of the coracoid process of the scapula. Actions.—The acromio-clavicular articulation admits of two movements, gliding of the surfaces on each other, and rotation of the scapula on the extremity of the clavicle, the extent of this rotation being limited by the two parts of the coraco-clavicular ligament. Bursas.—There are commonly three bursse in connection with this articulation ; one in the recess between the trapezoid and conoid ligaments, one between the base of the coracoid process and apex of the conoid ligament, and the third between the coraco-acromial liga- ment and the capsule of the shoulder-joint. 3. The PROPER LIGAMENTS OF THE SCAPULA are :— Coraco-acromial, Transverse. The coraco-acromial ligament is a broad and thick triangular band, which forms a protecting arch over the shoulder-joint. It is attached by its apex to the point of the acromion process, and by its base to the external border of the coracoid process its whole length. This ligament is in relation above with the clavicle and under surface of the deltoid muscle ; and below with the tendon of the supra-spinatus muscle, a bursa mucosa being usually interposed. The transverse or coracoid ligament (supra-scapular) is a narrow but strong fasciculus which crosses the notch in the upper border of the scapula, from the base of the coracoid process, and converts it into a foramen. The supra-scapular nerve passes through this foramen, the artery and veins over it. The omo-hyoid muscle takes origin from this ligament. Movements of the Scapula.—The mobility of the scapula is very great; it takes place in upward, downward, forward, and backward directions, and by a combination of all these as a modified circumduction. In the forward and backward movements the scapula glides over the chest wall, carrying the clavicle with it, and bein? kept in apposition with the chest by the latissimus dorsi muscle. "^In raising the arm at the shoulder, the deltoid and supra- spinatus can only raise it to a right angle with the trunk ; elevation above that is effected by the rotation of the scapula on the chest wall by the trapezius, the glenoid cavity being directed upwards and forwards. The rotation movement commences at the very beginning