300 DIAPHRAGM. ceeds fi-oiii tlie third lumbar vertebra; the middle pillar, smallei- than the otliers, i)roceeds from the second vertebra ; tlie external inilar, tlie largest of the three, from the first lumljar vertebra, liga- menta arcuata, and last rilx The internal pillars approach each other as they ascend, the arclied interval l)etween them being the aortic opening; their internal fibres, consisting of several fasciculi, cross each other in front of the aortic opening and form the lateral boundaries of another opening of elliptical shape (cesophageal), and are then lost in the central tendon. In the decussation betA\ 'een the Fig. 212.—Abdominal side of the dia- phragm. I, 2, 3. The thoracic portion ; figure I rests on tliu central leaflet of the tendinous centre; figure 2 on the left or smallest leaflet; figure 3 on tlie right leaflet. 4. Fasci- culus from the en- isiform cartilage: a small triangular space is left on either side of the fasciculus. 5. Liga- mentum arcuatiim externum of the left side. 6. Liga- mentum arcuatum iuternum. 7. A small arched open- ing occasionally found, through which the lesser splanchnic nerve passes. 8. Tendon of the right crus. 9. Fourth lumbar vertebra. 10. Ten- don of the left crus. II.'Aortic opeuiug occupied by the aorta. 12. Portion of the a3Sophagu8 issuing through the oesophageal opening. 13. Opening for the inferior vena cav;i, in the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. 14. Psoas magnus jiassing beneath the ligameutum arcuatum internum ; it has been removed on the opposite side to show the arch more distinctly. 15. Quadratus lumborum jiassing beneath the ligamentum arcuatum externum ; this muscle has also been removed 011 the left side. 16. Transverse processes of lumbar vertebife, and intertransverse muscles. aortic and resophageal o])eiiing the fibres of the i-ight internal jiillar are generally the most superficial. Muscular fibres are commonly found passing from the upper surface of the diaphragm on to the left side of the pericardial sac (Forbes). Between the lumbar and costal portion of the diapliragm at each side there is often a triangulai- interval like that between the costal and sternal portion, closed only by areolar tissue and the sei'ous membranes of the two cavities. The ligamentum arcuatum internum is a tendinous arch thrown across the upper jaart of the psoas muscle from the side of the body of the first lumbar vertebra to the apex of its trausvorsc