615 ORGAN OF VISION. are more simple than glands of the respiratory Mingled with the cells of epithelial processes are prolonged at their deep extremities into threads which appear to join the connective tissue corpuscles. It also contains numerous glands, but these the tract. the columnar epithelium are cer- tain peculiar rod-like bodies, each of which is connected with or grows out fi'om a nucleated cell (olfactory cell), while from' the deeper surface of the same cell proceeds a fine thread, which is supposed to be continuous with a filament of the olfactory nerve. They bear a striking resemblance to the retinal rods and cones. Vessels and Nerves. — The arteries of the nasal fossa; are the anterior and posterior ethmoidal, from the ophthalmic; and spheno- palatine and ptery go-palatine from the internal maxillary. The nerves are — olfactor}^ spheno-jjalatine and naso-palatine from Meckel's ganglion, and nasal iDranch of the ophthalmic. The filaments of the olfactory nerves dift'er from those of the cere- Ijral and spinal nerves generally, in being devoid of the medullary sheath ; they form a fine anastomotic network, and probably ter- minate in the olfactory cells above described. In the frog the olfac- tory fibres have l^een observed breaking up into a bundle of fine, pale, varicose fibrils which perforate the mucous membrane, and each of these appears then to join an olfactory cell (Schultze and Kollikcr). Fig. 352.—Olfactory cells and nerve ter- minations. A. Olfiictoiy cells from fi'og. B. From man. c. Filaments of olfactory nerve from dng. i. Epithelial cells, extending deeply into ramified processes. 2. Olfactory cells. 3. The rod-like processes of olfactory cells. 4. Their ciliated extremities. 5. Their central filaments. OEGAN OF VISION. Tlie organ of vision consists of the two eyes and their connections with the brain. The eyes are situated in the orbital fossae, on each side of the upper part of the face ; they are freely moval)le in consequence of being surrounded by fat and contained in a smooth fibrous capsule {capsule of Tenon), and have numerous muscles to perform their movements. They are protected from external violence by being situated in cavities with osseous walls, and have in front both