ARTICULATION OF THE TARSAL BONES. 223 This licrament is the main support of the arch of the foot, and is sometimes called the ''spring" ligament; it is braced up by the tendon of the tibialis posticus, which runs beneath it. The firm connection of the os calcis with the scaphoid bone, and the feebleness of the astragalo-scaphoid articulation, are conditions favourable to the occasional dislocation of the head of the astragalus. The long calcaneo-cuboid ligament or ligamentum longum plantse is a long band of ligamentous fibres, which proceeds from the under surface of the os calcis to the rough surface on the under part Fig. 180.—Ligaments of the sole of tlie foot. I. Point of attachment of tendon Achilles. 2. Internal malleolus. 3. Posterior tuberosity of OS calcis. 4. Posterior part of astragalus. 5. External tubercle on under surface of os calcis. 6. Posterior calcaneo-astragaloid liga- ment. 7. Internal tubercle of os calcis. 8 and 12. Internal lateral ligament. g. Long plantar liga- ment. 10. Groove on sustentaculum tali for flexor proprius hallucis. 11 and 16. Short plantar ligament. 13 and 23. Tendon of peroneus longus. 14. Inferior calcaneo- scaphoid ligament. 15 and 25. Sheath of peroneus loiigus. 17. Plantar ligament between fourth and fifth metatarsals. 18. Tubercle of scaphoid, ig. Plantar ligament between third and fourth meta- tarsals. 20. Plantar ligament be- tween scaphoid and internal cunei- form. 21. Fifth metatarsal. 22. Internal cuneiform. 24. First meta- tarsal. of the cuboid bone, its fibres being continued onwards to the base of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. This ligament forms the inferior boundary of the canal in the cuboid bone, through which the tendon of the peroneus longus passes to its insertion into the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The short calcaneo-cuboid or ligamentum breve plantae is situated closer to the bones than the long plantar ligament, from which it is separated by adipose tissue ; it is broad and extensive, and ties the under part of the os calcis and cuboid bone firmly together. The interosseous ligaments are five in number ; they are short and strong ligamentous fibres situated between adjoining bones, and firmly attached to their rough surfaces. One of' these, astragala-