SPINAL CORD. 488 the caput cornu loosterioris, the constricted portion behind this being distinguished as the cervix cornu. At the tip of the caput cornu the grey matter has a semi-transparent appearance, and was called by Rolando the substantia cinerea gelatinosa. Filum Terminale.—This is a fine thread which passes dowTi from the conical end of the cord to be attached to the lower part of the sacral canal or base of the coccyx ; in its course downwards it lies in the middle of the nerves forming the cauda equina. For about half its length it contains nervous elements continued into it from the cord, contained in a sheath of pia mater, the latter forming the chief portion of the thread, and being the means by which the cord is held in place. At the lower j)art of the vertebral canal it is attached to the dura mater and wall of the canal. Central Canal.—In the centre of the grey matter of the cord there is a minute canal lined by columnar epithelium, which extends upwards into the fourth ventricle, and downwards into the filum ter- minale. It is cylindrical or elliptical in shape in the upper part of the cord, but widens as it descends, and at the lower part is T-shaped; it is not unusual to find it filled u]3 with epithelial debris. The epithelium lining the canal is ciliated in the child, but there is no reason to believe that it is so in the adult. Minute Structure of the Spinal Cord.—The pia mater closely in- vests the spinal cord, and sends a process into the anterior median fis- sure, which conveys blood-vessels for the interior of the cord. Beneath it, and not usually distinctly separable from its strvictixre, is a cover- ing of connective tissu.e, from which j)rocesses pass into the white matter of the cord so as to form partial septa between its several parts. The whole of the grey and white matter is traversed by the peculiar form of connective tissue already described under the title of Neuroglia (p. 37). This is especially plentiful around the central canal and in the caput cornu posterioris; in the latter situation it constitutes the chief part of the substantia gelatinosa of Rolando. The neuroglia of the cord is composed of (i) a network of very fine fibrils resembling elastic tissue, (2) a fine granular or homogeneous matrix in which the fibres are embedded, and (3) smaU cells consisting of a nucleus and small cell-body, placed at the inter- sections of the fibres {glia cells, cells of Deiters). Neuroglia differs from all other forms of connective tissue in being of epiplastic origin, and in being composed of a peculiar material called 7i-ettro-A;eraii//. which resembles horn or hair. The outer or white part of the cord consists of medullated nerve- fibres lying in the meshes of the neuroglia ; they rvin, for the most part, longitudinally, and are devoid of primitive sheath and nodes of Ranvier. Sections stained with carmine show the axis-cylinder Avithin each fibre, but seldom exactly in the centre, and the fibres are seen to vary considerably in size, the largest ones measuring inch, and the smallest inch. The inner or grey portion of the cord is composed of nerve-cells and grey or non-medullated nerve-fibres, supported by neuroglia.