596 EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. and the head of the soleus, to the neck of the fibula ; it then pierces the pei'oneus longus muscle, and divides into two Ijranches, anterioi' tibial and musculo-cutaneous. The branches of the external popliteal nerve are—communicans peronei, cutaneous, and articular. The communicans peronei, proceeding from the external pop- liteal near the head of the fibula, crosses the external origin of the gastrocnemius muscle, and, piercing the deep fascia, descends to the middle of the leg, where it joins the external saphenous nerve. It gives off one or two cutaneous filaments in its course. The cutaneous branch passes down the back part and outer side of the leg, supplying the integument. The articular branches follow the external articular arteries to the knee-joint. The ANTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE commences at the bifurcation of the external popliteal on the neck of the fibula, and passes beneath the upper part of the extensor longus digitorum, to reach the outer side of the anterior tibial artery, just as that vessel has emerged through the opening in the interosseous membrane. It descends the leg with the artery, lying at first to its outer side, then in front of it, and near the ankle becoming again placed to its outer side. Beach- ing the ankle it passes beneath the annular ligament, accompanies the dorsalis pedis artery, supplies the adjacent sides of the great and second toe, and communicates with the internal division of the mus- culo-cutaneous nerve. The branches given ofi' by the anterior tibial nerve are—muscular to the muscles in its course ; and at the ankle a tarsal branch which may be considered as one of the terminal divisions of the nerve. This branch passes outwards upon the dorsum of the foot, becomes ganglionic like the posterior interosseous nerve at the wrist, and supplies the extensor brevis digitorum muscle and the articulations of the tarsus and metatarsus. The MUSCULO-CUTANEOUS NERVE passes downwards along the fibula, in the substance of the peroneus longus ; it then gets between the peroneus longus and brevis, next between the peronei and ex- tensor longus digitorum, and at the lower third of the leg piei ees the deep fascia, and divides into the internal and external cutaneous nerves of the foot. In its course it gives oft' several branches to the peronei muscles and cutaneous branches to the skin of the lower part of the leg. The internal branch, the smaller of the two, is distributed to the inner side of the foot and great toe, and the adjoining sides of the second and third toes communicating with the anterior tibial and internal saphenous. The external, or larger branch, supplies the adjacent sides of the third and fourth, and fourth and fifth toes, and communicates with the external saphenous.