537 OLFACTORY AND OPTIC NERVES. ^^•hite substance, the olfactory bulb, whicli rests on the cribnfoma phite of the ethmoid bone. From the under surface of the olfactory bulb are given off tlie nerves which pass through the cribriform foramina, and supply the mucous membrane of the nares ; they are arranged into three groups : an inner group, which spread out upon the septum narium ; an outer group, which descend through bony canals in the outer wall of the nares, and are distributed on the superior and middle turbinated bones ; and a middle group, which supply the mucous membrane of the roof of the nasal fossae. Each Via. 320.—Olfactory uerves, witli their distribution ou tlie septum nasi. The uares have been divided by a longitudinal section made immediately to the left of the septum, the right naris being preserved entire, i. Fi'oiital sinus. 2. Nasal bone. 3. Crista galli. 4. Sphenoidal sinus of left side. 5. Sella turcica. 6. Basilar pro- cess of sphenoid and occipital bone. 7. Postei'ior opening of the right naris. 8. Opening of the Eustachian tnbe. 9. Soft palate. 10. Cut surface of the hard palate, a. Olfactory tract, b. Its three roots of origin, c. Its bulb, from which the filaments are seen to proceed which spread out in the substance of the pituitary membrane, d. Nasal branch of the ophthalmic nerve, e. Naso-palatine nerve, distributing twigs to the mucous membrane of the septum nasi in its course to (/) the anterior palatine foramen, g. Branches of the naso-palatine nerve to the palate, h. Anterior and posterior palatine nerves, i. Septum nasi. nerve is enclosed in a tabular prolongation of the dura mater and pia mater. The nerves are devoid of medullary sheath, and form frequent anastomoses with each other. SECOND PAIR.-OPTIC, This nerve consists of three parts : the optic tract, the 02dic chiasma, and the nerve proper. The first portion arises from the corpora geniculata on the posterior and inferior aspect of the thala- mus opticus, from the thalamus itself, and from the nates. Pro-