EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF THUMB. 337 Relations—The same as the precedmg muscle, with the excep- tion of the extensor carpi ulnaris. The muscle accompanies the extensor ossis metacarjji. Immediately before entering the groove on the radius this muscle and the preceding one arch over the tendons of the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. Nerve-supply.—Posterior interosseous. The EXTENSOR SECUNDI INTERNODII POLLICIS arises from the posterior surface of the ulna and interosseous membrane. Its tendon passes through the narrow, oblique groove on the back of the radius, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Relations.—By its external surface, the same as the extensor ossis metacarpi. By its deejo surface with the ulna, interosseous mem- brane, radius, wrist-joint, radial artery, and metacarpal bone of the thumb. The muscle is placed between the extensor primi internodii and extensor indicis. Nerve-supply.—Posterior interosseous. The EXTENSOR INDICIS (indicator) arises from the ulna, below the origin of the extensor secundi internodii, and from the inter- osseous membrane. Its tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament in the same groove on the back of the radius as the ex- tensor communis digitorum, to be inserted into the aponeurosis of the common extensor tendon of the index finger. Relations.—The same as the preceding muscle, with the excep- tion of the hand, where the tendon rests on the metacarpal bone of the forefinger and second interosseous muscle, and has no relation with the radial artery. Nerve-supply.—Posterior interosseous. The tendons of the extensors, as of the flexor muscles of the fore- arm, are provided with synovial bui'ste as they pass beneath the annular ligament; those of the back of the wrist have separate sheaths, formed by the posterior annular ligament. Actions.—The anconeus is associated in its action -with the triceps extensor cubiti ; it assists in extending the forearm on the arm. The supinator longus is a weak supinator, being effective only in the early part of that action ; it is a powerful flexor, but acts only after the flexion has been begun by other muscles. The supinator brevis is the chief supinator, and the direct antagonist of the two pronators. The extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior and extensor carpi ulnaris extend the wrist in opposition to the two flexors of the carpus ; they also abduct the hand. The extensor communis digitorum restores the fingers to the straight position after they have been flexed by the two flexors, sublimis and profundus. The extensor ossis metacarpi, primi internodii, and secundi inter- nodii pollicis are the special extensors of the thumb, and serve to balance the actions of tlie flexor ossis metacarj^i, flexor brevis, and flexor longus pollicis. The extensor indicis produces extension of the index finger, and is therefore named " indicator," and the ex- .y