394 IN'J^ERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. Internally. Pharynx, Superior laryngeal nerve, Tousil, Ascending ijharyngeal artery. Internal Carotid Artery. Externally. Internal jugular vein, Glosso-pharyngeal, Pneumogastric, Hypoglossal nerve. Behind. Pharyngeal nerve, Superior laryngeal nerve, Superior cervical ganglion, Rectus anticus major. The PETROUS PORTION is separated from the bony wall of tlie carotid canal by a periosteal lining derived from tlie dnra mater; it is in relation with the carotid plexns, and is covered in l)y the Gasserian ganglion. The CAVERNOUS PORTION is situated in the cavernous sinus, and is in relation by its inner side with the lining membrane of the sinus, and by its outer side with the sixth nerve. The CEREBRAL PORTION of the artery is enclosed in a sheath of the arachnoid, and is in relation with the optic nerve. At its point of division it is situated in the fissure of Sylvius. Branches.—The cervical portion of the internal carotid gives off no brandies : from the other portions are derived the following :— From the Petrous portion. From the Cavernous portion. From the Cerebral portion. Tympanic. ( Arteriae receptaculi, \ Ophthalmic. i Anterior cerebral, ) Middle cerebral or Sylvian, S Posterior communicating, I Anterior choroid. The TYMPANIC is a small branch given off in the carotid canal; it enters the tympanum and inosculates with the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, and with the stylo-mastoid artery. The ARTERI.ffi RECEPTACULI anterior and posterior are two small branches given off in the cavernous sinus and distributed to the parts contained in the sinus, to the Gasserian ganglion, and dura mater. The OPHTHALMIC ARTERY arises from the internal carotid, just as that vessel pierces the dura mater, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen, lying extei-nally to the optic nerve. It then crosses the optic nerve to the inner wall of the orbit; and runs along the lower border of the superior oblique muscle, to the imier angle of the eye, where it divides into two terminal branches, frontal and nasal. Branches.—The branches of the ophthalmic artery, ten in num- ber, may be arranged into two groups : first, those distributed to the orbit and surrounding parts ; and, secondly, tliose which supply the muscles and globe of the eye. They are :—