INFEEIOR MAXILLARY BONE. 117 the two nares. Tlie anterior border is more or less deeplj' grooved for the reception of the central lamella of the ethmoid and the carti- lage fif the septum. The lateral surfaces are smooth and marked by small furrows for vessels ; each has a groove which runs downwards and forwards, giving passage to the naso-palatine nerve, and termi- nates inferiorly at the upper opening of the canal of Scarpa. The Fig. h6.—The vomer viewed on its left aspect. I, I. Its superior border, with the two alsB. 2, 2. Inferior border. 3. Posterior border. 4, 4. That por- tion of the anterior border which articulates with the central lamella of the ethmoid. 5, 5. Inferior portion of the anterior border, which unites with the cartilage of the septum. 6, 6. An elevation on the bone mark- ing its point of separation into two layers; the two layers are seen along the whole length of the anterior border from 4 to the lower 5. vomer not unfrequently presents a convexity to one or the othei' side ; generally, it is said, to the left. Development.—^By a single centre, which makes its appearance at the same time with those of the vertebrEe. Ossification begins from beloAV and proceeds iipwards. At birth, the vomer presents the form of a trough, in the concavity of which the cartilage of the septum nasi is placed ; it is tliis disposition which subsequently enables the bone to embrace the rostrum of the sphenoid. The vomer has no muscles attached to it. Articulations.—With .six bones : sphenoid, ethmoid, two superior maxillary, two palate ; and with the cai'tilage of the septum. INFERIOR MAXILLARY BONE. The lower jaw or mandible is the arch of bone which contains the inferior teeth ; it is divisible into a horizontal portion or body, and a perpendicular portion, the ramus, at each side. The body is divisiljle into two portions. That above the mental foramen (alveolar) is of spongy texture, and contains the sockets for the teeth—that below this foramen (basilar) is thick and rounded ; it is dense in structure, and is marked Ijy ridges for the attacliment of nuiscles. Tlie relative proportion of these two parts varies with the age of the individual : in chiklhood, in consequence of contain- ing the two sets of teeth, the alveoUir portion is large, and the mental foramen is near the lower border of the bone ; in old age, on the contrary, from the loss of teeth and consequent absorption of the alveolar process, the basilar portion alone remains, and the mental foramen is situated near its upper boi'der. In adult age the alveolar and l)asilar portions are of equal depth, the mental foramen being situated midway between the upj)er and lower border. Upon the external surface of the boclij, at the middle line, and