323 DELTOID. pinatus and teres minor are rotators of the head of the humerus lutwards. The most important use of these three muscles is the trotection of the joint, and defence against displacement of the lead of the humerus, in which action they co-operate with the sul> capularis. The teres major combines "with the latissimus dorsi in otating the arm inwards, and at tlie saine time carrying it towards he side, and somewhat backwards. Acromial Region. Deltoid. The DELTOID (A, delta ; el8os, like) is the large triangular muscle ivhich forms the convexity of the shoulder ; it arises from the outer ihird of the clavicle, from the acromion process, and from the Avhole ength of the lower border of the spine of the scapula. Tlie filjres Tom this broad origin converge to the middle of the outer side of the liumei'us, where they are inserted into a rough triangular elevation, [n structure the deltoid is composed of seven fasciculi, four of which are fleshy above and tendinous below ; and three tendinous above stnd fleshy below. To bring the muscles beneath it into view, the deltoid must be cut away from its origin, and turned down ; in so doing, a large bursa will be seen betweezi its under sui-face and the [lead of the humerus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the deep fascia, a few .ibres of the platysma myoides, the superficial fascia, and integu- ment. By its dee}) surface with the shoulder-joint (from which it is separated by a thin tendinous fascia and a synovial bursa), the icoraco-acromial ligament, coracoid process, pectoralis minor, coraco- I brachialis, both heads of the biceps, tendon of the pectoralis major^ tendon of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, teres major, srapular and external heads of the triceps, anterior and posterior l iicumflex vessels, and humerus. By its anterior border with the rxternal border of the pectoralis major, from which it is separated liy an interspace, lodging the cephalic vein and descending branch of the thoracico-acromialis artery. Its posterior harder is thin and h ndinous above, where it is connected with the aponeurotic cover- ing of the infra-spinatus muscle, and thick below. Nerve-supply.—The circumflex nerve, from the posterior cord uf the l)rachial plexus. Actions.—The deltoid is the elevator muscle of the arm in a direct line, and, l)y means of its extensive origin, it can carry the arm forwards or backwards so as to range with the hand a con- siderable segment of a large circle. The arm, raised by the deltoid, IS an illustration of a lever of the third power, so common in the animal machine, by which velocity is gained at the expense of power. In this lever, the weight (hand) is at one extremity, the fulcrum (glenoid cavity) at the opposite end, the power (insertion of the muscle) between tlie two, but nearer to the fulcrum than to the weight. When the scapula is fixed the deltoid can only raise