PERITONEUM. 698 The simplest idea that can be given of a serous membrane is, that it invests the viscus or viscera, and is then reflected on the parietes of the containing cavity. If the cavity contain only a single viscns, the consideration of the serous meml)rane is extremely simple. But in tlie abdomen, where there are a number of viscera, the serous membrane ]:)asse.s from one to the other until it has invested tlic Fig. 409. — Reflections of the peritoneum, d. Diaphragm. L. Liver. s. Stomach. c. Transverse colon, d. Trans- verse duodenum, p. Pancreas. I. Small intestines, r. Rec- tum. B. Urinary bladder. I. Anterior layer of perito- neum, lining the under sur- face of the diaphragm. 2.P»s- terior layer. 3. Coronary liga- ment, formed by the passf^ge of these two layers to tfe posterior border of the livfer. 4. Lesser omentum ; the two layers passing from the under surface of the liver to the lesser curve of the stomach. 5. The two layers meeting at the greater curve, then pass- ing downwards and returning upon themselves, forming (6) the greater omentum. 7. Transverse meso-colon. 8. Posterior layer traced up- wards in front of d, transver.'-e duodenum, and p, pancreas, to become continuous with the posterior layer (2). 9. Fora- men of Winslow : tlie dotted line bounding this foramen inferiorly marks the course of the hepatic artery forwards, to enter between the layers of the lesser omentum. 10. Mesentery encircling the small intestines. 11. Recto- vesical fold, formed by the descending anterior layer. 12. Anterior layer traced up- wards on the inner surface of the abdominal parietes to tlio layer (i), with which the exa- mination commenced. whole, before it is reflected on the parietes. Hence its reflections are a little more complicated. In tracing the reflections of the peritoneum, in the middle liuc, we commence with the diaphragm, which is lined by two layeis, one from the parietes in front, anterior, and one from the parietes behind, i^osterior. These two layers of the same membrane, at llu' posterior part of the diaphragm, descend to the upper surface of llif liver, forming the coronary and lateral ligaments of the liyei. They then surround tlie liver, one going in front, the other behiud that viscus, and meeting at its under surface, pass to the stomach,