URINARY BLADDER. 766 the anterior true ligaments ; beldncl, with the small iiitestines occu- i:)ying the recto-vesical pouch ; below, witli the rectum, vesicu' seminales, vasa deferentia, ureters, and recto-vesical fascia, and a eack side by the vas deferens, lateral true ligament, ureter an obliterated hypo-gastric artery. The summit is connected with th abdominal wall by nieans of the urachus, and the neck is surrounded by the prostate gland. It is retained in position by ligaments which are divisible into true and false : the true ligaments are live in number, two anterior, two lateral, and the cord of the urachus ; tlie false ligaments are folds of the peritoneum, and are also five in number, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The anterior ligaments (piiho-prostatic) are formed by the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, in its passage from the inner surface of th pubes at each side of the symphysis to the neck of the bladder and prostate gland. Between the two ligaments the dorsal vein of th penis runs. The lateral ligaments are also formed by the visceral layer of the pelvic fascia, in its passage from the white line to the sides of the prostate gland and bladder. The ligament of the urachus is a fibrous cord resulting from the obliteration of the allantoic canal in the embryo. It proceeds from the summit of the bladder, and ascends along the linea alba to the umbilicus. The posterior false ligaments are the folds of peritoneum ]5as.?- ing from the rectum and sides of the sacrum to the bladder; the contain the ureters, and the vessels and nerves of the bladder. The lateral false ligaments are formed by the passage of th ])eritoneum from the side of the pelvis to the bladder; they cove the upper and posterior half of its lateral wall. The obliterate hypogastric artery lies along the line of reflection of the membrane. The superior or suspensory false ligament is the fold of peri toneum caused by the prominence of the cord of the urachus an the cords of the obliterated hypogastric arteries. Structure.—The bladder is composed of four coats, external or serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The serous or peritoneal coat covers the Avhole posterior surface of the bladder, and the under surface as far forwards as the entrance of the ureters, where it is attached to the back jiart of (he recto- vesical fascia. At the sides it is limited by the obliterated hypo- gastric arteries, and consequently only invests the upper and ])0ste- rior part; on the anterior surface it is entirely absent; abo\-e, it covers the part behind the urachus. The muscular coat consists of three layers of imstri]>ed muscular fibre ; external or longitudinal, middle or circulai-, and internal, which is also longitudinal. The external layer, or detrusor urinse, consists of parallel longitudinal fasciculi which take then- origin trom the anterior ligaments of the bladder, thence named tendons of the detrusor iirina); they spread out upon the upper surface ot tlie