CONJUNCTIVA. 619 several rows; the glands themselves are situated near the roots of the hairs, and between the fibres of the mass of the orbicularis and the ciliary muscle of Kiolan. In structure they resemble sweat ducts, being composed of a bent tube, lined with cubical epithelial cells. The conjunctiva is the mucous membrane of the eye. It covers the whole of its anterior surface, and is reflected on the lids so as to form their internal layer. It is continuous with the general gastro-. pulmonary mucous membrane, and sympathises in its affections, as may be observed in various diseases. From the surface of the eye it may be traced through the lachrymal ducts into the lachrymal gland, along the edges of the lids it is continuous with the mucous lining of the Meibomian glands, and at the inner angle of the eye it may be followed through the lachrymal canaliculi into the lach- rymal sac, and thence downwards through the nasal duct into the inferior meatus of the nose. Wliere it covers the cornea the conjunctiva is thin, transparent, and inseparable from the corneal substance; it consists of stratified eiDithelial cells alone. In the conjunctiva at the circumference of the cornea a plexus of vessels is found, but this never extends entirely across the latter. The conjunctiva over the sclerotic is also thin and transparent, but is loosely applied and glides freely over the surface of the eyeball ; it is freely supplied with blood by an irregularly disposed plexus of vessels. These vessels are readily distinguished from those of the sub-conjunctival tissue, as the latter radiate in nearly straight lines from the circumference of the cornea, and do not glide over the surface of the sclerotic on pressure. The sclerotic conjunc- tiva consists of stratified epithelium supported by a sub-epithelial layer, composed of white fibrous and elastic tissue, in the meshes of which numerous lymph corpuscles are seen. The palpebral conjunctiva is thick, opaque, and red ; it presents papillae on its surface, and very closely resembles ordinary mucous membrane in structure, but the papillcC are limited to the part below the level of the tarsal plate. It consists of a stratified epi- thelium, supported by an elastic submucous tissue ; in the latter, numerous simple follicles are found, and near the reflected portion, certain racemose glands, similar in structure to the lachrymal gland. Bruch has described masses of lymphoid tissue as occupying the conjunctiva of the fornix conjunctiva), and Henle has named these masses trachoma glands; it apj^ears doubtful, however, if they are present in normal conditions of the conjunctiva. Between the eyelids and ball of the eye the conjunctiva forms an up])er and lower fold, which are called the superior and inferior palpebral folds (retro-tarsal folds), the upper being tlie larger ; they are now frequently spoken of as the upper and lower fornix con- junctivae. The caruncula lachrymalis is the small reddish body which occu])ies the lacus h^chrymalis at the inner canthus of the eye. In health it presents a Ijright pink tint; in sickness it loses its colour