279 DEEP LAYER OF MUSCLES. The MULTIFIDUS SPIN^, consisting of about twenty-two small muscular fasciculi, extends along the vertebral groove from the sacrum to the axis. The muscle commences by tendinous fibres on the dorsum of the sacrum, proceeding from the lateral tubercles of the sacrum and even from the lateral cornu of the coccyx, and passing obliquely upwards and inwards to the spinous tubercles. The fasciculi arise inferiorly from the sacrum, ilium, and tendon of the erector spinse ; in the lumbar region from the articular and mammillary processes of the vertebrae ; in the dorsal region from the transverse jjrocesses; and in the cervical region from the arti- cular processes of the four inferior vertebrae. They are inserted into the spinous processes and laminae of all the vertebrae from the sacrum to the axis. Of the twenty-two fasciculi, six are lumbar, twelve dorsal, and four cervical. Each fasciculus, separate below, spreads out as it ascends, and passing over the next vertebra, is inserted into the four or five immediately above it. The muscle is thick inferiorly; and the uppermost fasciculus larger than those im- mediately below it. The ROTATORES SPINiE are situated in the dorsal region beneath the multifidus spinas; they are eleven in number, and arise from the upper and back part of the transverse processes, and are inserted into the laminae and roots of the spinous processes. The INTERSPINALES are small muscular slips arranged in pairs and situated l)etween the spinous processes of the vertebrse. In tlie cervical region there are six pairs of these muscles, the first being placed ))etween the axis and third vertel^ra, the sixth between tlie last cervical and first dorsal; they are attached to the apices of the spinous processes, and are separated by the interspinous liga- ments. In the dorsal region, rudiments of these muscles are occasion- ally met with between the upper and lower vertebrte, but are absent in the rest. In the hmbar region there are six pairs of interspinales, the first pair occupying the interspinous space between the last dorsal and first lumbar vertebrae, the last, the space between the fifth lumbar and sacrum. They are thin, broad, and imperfectly developed. Rudimentary interspinales are occasionally met with between the sacrum and coccyx ; these are the analogues of the caudal muscles of brutes ; in man they are named collectively the extensor cnccygis (sacro-coccygeus posticus). The INTER-TRANSVERSALES are small quadrilateral muscles situated between the transverse processes of the vertebra In the cervical region they are arranged in pairs corresiDonding with the double conformation of the transverse processes, the vertebral ar- tery and anterior dmsion of a cervical nerve lying between them Ihe rectus anticus minor and rectus lateralis represent the inter- transversales between tlie atlas and cranium. In the dorsal recdon tlie anterior mter-transversales are represented by the intercostal muscles while the posterior are mere tendinous bands, muscular only between the first and last vertebrcT. In the lumbar region, the anterior mter-transversales are thin, and occupv onlv part of the