334 EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF FOREARM. extensoi- secundi intevnodii pollicis, radial nerve, fascia of the foi'e- arin, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the brachialis anticiis, extensor carpi radialis brevior, radius, and wrist- joint. Nerve-supply.—A special branch of the niusculo-spiral. The EXTENSOR CARPI RADIALIS BREVIOR is seen by drawing aside the former muscle. It arUes from the external condyle of tlie humerus, external lateral ligament and intermuscular sei)ta, by a tendon common to it and the next three muscles, and is inserted into the styloid process on the base of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. Its tendon is lodged in the same groove on the radius with that of the extensor carpi radialis longior. Relations.—By its superjicial surface with the extensor carjii radialis longior, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor primi internodii pollicis, extensor secundi internodii pollicis, fascia of the forearm, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the supinator brevis, tendon of the pronator radii teres, radius, and wrist-joint. By its ulnar border with the extensor communis digitorum. Nerve-supply.—Posterior interosseous, a branch of the musculo- spiral. The EXTENSOR COMMUNIS DIGITORUM arises from the exter- nal condyle by the common tendon, from the intermuscular septa, and deep fascia ; and divides into four tendons, which are inserted into the second and third phalanges of the fingers. At the meta- carpo-phalangeal articulation each tendon becomes narrow and thick, and sends a thin fasciculus upon each side of the joint. It then spreads out, and receiving the tendon of the lumbricalis and some tendinous fasciculi from the interossei, forms a broad aponeu- rosis, which covers the whole posterior aspect of the finger. At the first phalangeal joint the aponeurosis divides into three slips. The middle slip is inserted into the base of the second phalanx, and the two lateral portions are continued onwards at each side of the joint, to be inserted into the last. Little oblique tendinous slips connect the tendon of the ring with those of the middle and little finger as they cross the back of the hand. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the deep fascia of the forearm and hand, and posterior annular ligament. By its deep surface with the supinator brevis, extensor ossis metacarpi pollicis, extensor j)rimi internodii, extensor secundi internodii, extensor indicis, posterior interosseous arteiy and nerve, wrist-joint, meta- carpal bones, interossei muscles, and phalanges. By its radial border with the extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior. By the ulnar border with the extensor minimi digiti, and extensor carpi ulnaris. Nerve-supply.—Posterior interosseous. The EXTENSOR MINIMI DIGITI (auricularis) is an oftset from the extensor communis, with which it is connected by means of a tendinous slip. Passing down to the inferior extremity of the ulna, it traverses a distinct fibrous sheath, and at the metacarpo-