754 SPLEEN. Fig. 460.—Reticulum of the splenic pulp. Meshes covered with endothelium. Lacunar spaces, c. Nuclei. a. b. A second spleen (lien succenturiatus) is sometimes foinid appended to one of tlie l)ranclies of the splenic arteiy, near the great end of the stomacli ; when it exists, it is round and of small size, rarely larger than a hazel-nut. There ai'c sometimes two, and even three, of these bodies. Structure.—The sjileen is closely invested ]jy tlie peritoneum, excej)ting where that membrane is reflected on to the stomach and diaphragm, and at the hilus whei e the vessels and nerves enter it; this forms its outer or serous coat. Beneath this is the jn'oper capsule or tunica propria ; it is thicker than the serous coat, whitish in ajipearance, and very elastic. At tlie hilus the capsule is reflected into the interior of the organ along with the A'essels, forming strong bands or tra- beculas which radiate from tlie centre to the circuuiference, and conmiunicate with each other so as to form a mesh-work enclosing irregular spaces or areolae ; the fine external strands of the tra- beculse become connected with the interior of the capsule, binding it firmly and insepai'al)ly to the internal structure of the organ. Besides fibrous and elastic tissue these bands contain a few un- striped muscular fibres irregularly distriljuted. The interspaces or areolas thus formed are filled by a soft material of a reddish-brown colour, called the splenic pulp ; it consists of a fine reticulum of ramified connective-tissue corpuscles (supporting cells of the ]}'^''h^)-: ii^- ter.stices of which are occupied by blood, con- taining more than the usual proportion of A\'hite corpuscles. The cells of the reticulimi contfxin many pigment granules of a yellow or reddish colour ; these are probably derived from dis- integrated red blood corpuscles, and, indeed, it is not uncommon to find corpuscles in vai'ioiis stages of change in the ])rotoplasm of the sup- porting cells. Scattered throughout the spleen numerous light-coloured sjiots are observed, which, when of lai'ge size, present the apjiear- auce of sago grains ; they are the Malpigliian corpuscles of the spleen. They are closely connected with the outer coat of the small arterial twigs, sometimes being situated only on one side of the vessel (as .shown in Fig. 461), Init more commonly in the human subject completely surrounding Fic. 461.—Arterial twig of llie splenic artery, showing tlie connection of tlic splenic corpuscles with the small vessels. From the spleen of a dog.