REGIOKS OF THE SKULL. 121 The squamo-parietal suture (Fig. ii8) unites the squamous portion of the temporal bone with the parietal, overlapping the lower border of the latter. The spheno-parietal suture is formed by the union of the tip of the great wing of the sphenoid with the anterior inferior angle of the j)arietal bone. The masto-parietal suture is the continuation backwards of the scpiamo-parietal; it unites the uj)per edge of the mastoid portion of tlie temporal with the back part of the lower border of the jDarietal. The sutures at the base of the skull are the basilar, petro-occipital, mastn-occijntal, petro-sphenoidal, and squamo-sphenoidal. The basilar suture is formed by the union of the basilar portions of the occipital and sphenoid bones ; it is obliterated by the fusion of the bones in early adult life. The masto-oceipital and petro-occipital sutures are continuous; the former runs between the posterior edge of mastoid, and the lower part of the lateral edge of the occipital; the latter is placed between the petrous portion of the temporal and the basi- and ex-occipital, and has in it the large opening called jugular foramen. The petro-sphenoidal suture is the short, irregular, union of the anterior edge of the petrous Ijone and the postei'ior border of the great wing of the sphenoid, and has in it the middle lacerated foramen. The squamo-sphenoidal suture is the continuation downwards of the squamo-parietal suture. Across the upper part of the face is an irregular suture, the trans- verse, which connects the frontal bone with the nasal, superior maxillary, lachrymal, ethmoid, sphenoid, and malar bones. REGIONS OF THE SKULL. The skull, considered as a whole, is di^asible into five regions : a superior region or vertex ; two lateral regions ; an inferior region or base ; and an anterior region, the face. The superior region, or vertex of the skull, is bounded anteriorlv by the frontal eminences ; on each side bv the temporal crest and parietal eminence ; and behind by the superior curved line of the occipital bone and occipital protuljerance. It is crossed transversely by the coronal suture, and marked from before backwards by the s^ttal, which terminates posteriorly in the lambdoidal suture. Near the posterior extreniitv of the region, and on each side of the sagittal suture, is tlie parietal foramen. The junction of the sagittal and coronal sutures is called the Iregma, and lies vertically above the external auditory meatus ; the junction of the sa^^ittal and lamlxloidal sutures is named the lambda, and is usually situated about 2^ in. above the external occipital protuberance (60 mm., Clark). The part of the vertex in the neighbourhood of