ABDOMINAL AOKTA. 424 of the superior mesenteric. It descends to the right iliac fossa, and divides into branches which communicate and form arches, from which branches are distributed to the termination of the ileum, caecum, and commencement of the colon. This artery inosculates on the one hand with the termination of the mesenteric trunk ; on the other, with the colica dextra. The colica dextra arises from about the middle of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and passing outwards behind the peri- toneum, divides into branches which form arches, and are distri- buted to the ascending colon. Its descending branches inosculate with the ileo-colic, the ascending with the colica media. The colica media arises from the upper part of the concavity of the superior mesenteric, and passes forward between the layers of the transverse mesocolon, where it forms arches, and is distributed to the transverse colon. It inosculates on the right with the colica dextra ; on the left, with the colica sinistra, a branch of the inferior mesenteric artery. The SPERMATIC ARTERIES are two small vessels which arise from the front of the aorta below the superior mesenteric; irom their origin each artery passes obliquely outwards, and accompanies the corresponding ureter along the front of the psoas muscle, to the border of the pelvis, where it is in relation with the external iliac artery. It is then directed outwards to the internal abdominal ring, and follows the course of the spermatic cord, along the spermatic canal and through the scrotum to the testicle, to which it is distri- buted. The right spermatic artery lies in front of the A'ena cava, and both vessels are accompanied by veins and by the sjjermatic plexuses of nerves. They anastomose with the deferential arteries, branches of the superior vesical, and with the cremasteric arteries. The ovarian arteries in the female correspond to the spermatic in the male. They descend into the pelvis and pass between the two layers of the broad ligaments of the uterus, to be distributed to the broad ligaments, ovaries. Fallopian tubes, and round ligaments; along the latter they are continued to the inguinal canal and labium at each side. They inosculate with the uterine arteries. The INFERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY, smaller than the superior, arises from the abdominal aorta, about two inches below the origin of the latter vessel, and descends between the layers of the left meso- colon, to the left iliac fossa, where it divides into three branches:— Colica sinistra. Sigmoid, Superior hoemorrhoidal. The colica sinistra is distributed to the descending colon ; it passes upwards and outwards behind the peritoneum, and divides into two branches, one of which ascends to inosculate with the colica media, while the other descends to communicate with the sigmoid branch. The inosculation of the colica sinistra with the colica media is the largest arterial anastomosis in the body. The sigmoid artery passes obliquely outwards behind the peri-