ALIMENTARY CANAL. 703 ALIMENTARY CANAL. The alimentary canal is a mnsculo-niembranons tube, extending from the mouth to the anus. It is variously named in the different parts of its course, and is divided into the— Mouth, Pharynx, (Esophagus, Stomach, {Duodenum, (Csecum, Jejunum, Large intestine < Colon, Ileum, (Eectum. The mouth is the irregular cavity which contains the organ of taste and the principal instruments of mastication. It is bounded in front by the lips ; on each side by the internal surface of the cheeks ; above, by the hard palate and teeth of the upper jaw ; beloiv, by the tongue, the mucous membrane stretched between the arch of the lower jaw and the under surface of the tongue, and by the teeth of the inferior maxilla ; and behind by the soft palate and fauces. The lips are two fleshy folds formed externally by integument and internally by mu.cous membi'ane, and containing between these two layers, muscles, a quantity of fat, and numerous small labial glands. They are attached to the surface of the upper and lower jaw, and each lip is connected to the gum in the middle line by a fold of mucous membrane, frena or frenula. The cheeks are continuous with the lips, and form the sides of the face ; they are composed of integument, a large quantity of fat, muscles, mucous membrane, and buccal glands. The mucous membrane lining the cheeks is reflected above and below on the sides of the jaws, and is attached posteriorly to the anterior margin of the ramus of the lower jaw. At about its middle, opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw, is a papilla, on which may be observed a small opening, the aperture of the duct of the parotid gland (Stenson's duct). The hard palate is a dense structure, composed of mucous mem- brane, palatine glands, areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves, and firmly connected to the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bon^s. It is bounded in front and at each side by the alveolar processes and gums, and is continuous behind with the soft palate. Along the middle line it is marked by an elevated raphe, and pre- sents at each side of the raphe a number of transverse ridges and grooves. Near its anterior extremity, and immediately behind the middle incisor teeth, is a papilla which corresponds with the ter- mination of the anterior palatine canal, and receives the naso-palatine nerves. ■ The gums are composed of a thick and dense mucous membrane, which is closely adherent to the periosteum of the alveolar processes,