2 CELLS AND PROTOPLASM. Fia. 1. — Different kinds of cells with nuclei and proto- Ijlasm. called nuclei. Cells are for the most part splu'roidal in shaj>e, unless modified by pressure or other causes, when tliej' may be- come oval, fusiform, scaly, or liexagoual ; in jjig- ment, connective tissue, and tlie nervous centr(-s they are stelhite, having ramifying processes wliich communicate with cacli other so as to form a net- work. Besides tliose contained in the tissues there are also free cells floating in the fluid of blood, lymph, and chyle, and one form of them has the l)ower of leaving these fluids and travelling through the tissues; these, the "white corpuscles'' of the blood, have hence been termed '■^ivander cells." Each cell consists of an albuminoid material, transparent, colourless, and of a jelly-like consistence, called proto])lasm. The cell may have a distinct bound- ing memltrane or cell-^vaU, but this is not in- variably the case with tlie cells of animal tissues ; it has usually one or more central spots called nuclei, within which again are one or two smaller spots called nucleoli; but botli nucleus and nucle- olus may be absent without interfering with the vitality of the cell. Protoplasm has commonly agranular appearanct-. and this is generally due to the existence of a veiy tine network of fibrils with slight nodes at tlic points where they intersect (intercellular network). The network is known as the reticulum or spongio- plasm, while the substance occujiying its meshes is called the hyaloplasm. Protoplasm is a joroteid substance, similar to albumen; it has a strong affinity for staining fluids, especially for carmine and hoematoxylin, consist- very largely of water, but is not mis- cible witli that fluid, and is weakly alkaline or neutral in reaction. It possesses remarkable vital properties, the chief of wliich are, (a) its jiower of motion, (h) its active nutrition, and (c) the ijrocluction of similar masses of protoplasm by division. The power of motion of protoplasm is exhibited in three ways:—(i.) In changiug its shape and position, by putting out irregular processes (p.feudopo(Ha), and then drawing the general mass onwards to the position they occupy ; this is known as ama;b(iid motion, and by it the protoplasmic mass is able to travel from place to jjlace. (2.) The second form of uiotiou consists of streaming movements in the su])stance of the pi'otoplasm (whether it ])e statiouaiy or ex- hibit amaiboid movements), and in the pseudopodial processes of Fio. 2.—Diagramof acellwith two nuclei, showing intercellular I and Internuclear network.