652 ORGAN OF TASTE. the meatus, a vestibular nerve aud a cochlear nerve, the latter lying anterior to the foi'nier, and a little below the facial nerve. The vestibular nerve separates into three branches, superior,' middle, and inferior. The superior vestibular branch gives off a nxmiber of filaments, which pass through the foramina in the ])06- terior part of the si;perior depression ; they enter the vestibule beside the crista vestibuli, and are distributed to the utricle, and the ampulla of the superior and external semicircular canals. The middle vestibular branch sends off numerous filaments which pass through the foramina in the lower depression, enter the vestibule through the fovea hemispherica, and are distributed to the saccule. The inferior and smallest branch passes along the groove and through the foramen at the back part of the meattis; it is distri- buted to the amj)ulla of the posterior canal. The filaments which pass to the canals bifurcate at their extremities, and are applied against the flattened side of each membranous ampulla ; they then pass into the membranous wall, and into the partial septum, which has been already described as projecting into the ampulla {crista acustica). The cochlear nerve divides into numerous filaments, which enter the foramina of the tractus spiralis in the base of the cochlea, pass upwards in the canals of the modiolus, and, bending outM^ards at right angles, pass between tlie two layers of the osseous lamina spiralis. Here the nerve filaments form a network, in the midst of which numerous small ganglia have been observed. From this plexus branches are given off externally, which perforate the bottom of-the sulcus spiralis, and, it is supposed, terminate by becoming attached to the rods of Corti, and the cells which adjoin them on each side. The central portion of the cochlear nerve passes through the tubulus centralis modioli, and supplies the apicial portion of the lamina spiralis, and the adjoining structures.' ORGAN OF TASTE. The tongue is composed of muscular fibres, which are distributed in layers arranged in various directions : thus, some are disposed longitudinally (Imgualis snperficialis); others transversely (lingualis transversus) ; others, again, obliquely and vertically. The arrange- ment of the different bundles forming the intrinsic muscles of the tongue has been descril)ed on a previous page (p. 257). Between the muscular fibres is a consideralile quantity of adipose sulv stance, and in the middle of the oi-gan a vertical septum of fibrous tissue. -11 The tongue is connected, i^osteriorly, with the os hyoides by mus- cular attachment; and to the epiglottis by mucous membrane, which forms the three r/losso-epigJottic folds. At either side it is held in connection with the lower jaw by mucous membrane ; and in front, a fold of tliat membrane, which is named froinnm lingim, is formed