PERINEAL FASCIA. 303 Dissection.—To dissect the perineuiu, the subject sliould be lixed in the position for lithotoniy, that is, tlie hands should 1)6 bound to the soles of the feet, and the knees kept apart. Both of these means of preparation have for their object the full exposure of the perineum. And as this is a dissection which demands some degree of delicacy and nice manipulation, a strong light should be thrown upon the part. A large sound is to be introduced into the bladder, and a string, tied round the testicles, to be fixed to its handle. This will retain the sound in the bladder and put the pei'ineum on the stretch. An incision is to be made from the point where the scrotum joins the perineum along the middle of the latter to the anterior edge of the anus, round each side of this, and from the posterior edge of it to the ti^) of the coccyx. This incision is to be supplemented by lateral ones carried from the anterior end of the first outwards on to the thigh and then backwards to a little beyond the level of the posterior margin of the anus, so as to include in its area the tuberosity and ramus of the ischium. The flaps are to be dissected back mth great care, the integixment alone being remo^'ed so as to expose the subcutaneous sphincter and the superficial fascia. After the fascia has been carefully dissected off and the perineal vessels and nerves turned aside, the muscles are l;)rought into view. Perineal Fascia.—The fasciae of the perineum are the supei-ficial and the deep. The superficial fascia consists, as in other situations, of two layers, one lying next tlie skin and containing an abundance of fat, the other more condensed lying in contact with the muscles. The superficial layer, or fatty layer, in the perineum is con- tinuous with the dartos of the scrotum, or areolar tissue of the labia majora, in front, with the superficial fascia of the thighs at each side, and with the suijerficial fascia covering the glutei maximi and with the coccyx behind. It differs in character and composition in different parts of the perineum ; thus at the back part it consists of fine granular fat which fills up the large space between the ischium and anu.s called the ischio-redal fossa ; over the tuberosity of the ischium it becomes tough and stringy, and is formed by interwoven strands of fibrous tissue betAveen which numerous small synovial bursse are found ; in the anterior part of the perineum, again, it is thin and membranous, the fat being replaced hy unstriped muscular tissue, and is continued into the tunica dartos. The deep or membranous layer of the superficial fascia, or fascia of Colles, lies in close contact with the muscles and super- ficial vessels of the perineum, packing them into their places. On each side it is attached to the ramus of the ischium and pubes, and this attachment is continued forwards and outwards on to the fascia lata of the thigh, where it Ijecomes continuous with the deep fascia ot the gi'om. It is prolonged backwards as far as the transversalis perinei muscle, round the posterior border of which it turns to be united to the deep perineal fascia on which the muscle rests. At this Donit thpSP two fnuf.icrj oy.,> 1,1,1,,,1 +, il j^i