OS INNOMINATUM. !57 situated at the point of union between the ilium, ischium, and pubes; a little less than two-fifths being formed by the ilium, a little more than two-fifths by the ischium, the remaining fifth by the pubes. It is bounded by a deep rim or lip, broad and strong above, where most resistance is required, and marked in front by a deep notch, which is arched over in the fresh subject by a strong ligament, and transmits the nutrient vessels of the joint. At the bottom of the cup, and communicating with the notch, is a deep circular pit, which lodges a mass of fat, and gives attachment by its edges to the broad extremity of the ligamentum teres. The obturator or thyroid foramen (also called foramen ovale) is a large oval interval between the ischium and pubes, bounded by a narrow rough margin, to which a ligamentous membrane is attached. The upper part of the foramen is increased in depth by the groove in the under surface of the os pubis, which lodges the obturator vessels and nerve. Development.—By eight centres : three principal, one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the pubes; and five secondary, one, the Y-shaped piece, for the interval between the primitive pieces in the bottom of tlie acetabulum, one for the crest of the ilium, one (not constant) for the anterior and inferior spinous process of the ilium, one for the tuberosity of the iscliium, and one (not constant) for the angle of the pubes. Ossification commences in tlie primitive pieces, immediately after that in the vertebras, firstly in the ilium during tlie eighth week, then in the ischium in the third mouth, and lastly in the pubes in the fourth or fifth month ; the first ossific deposits being situated near the future acetabulum. At Inrth, tlie acetalnilum, crest of the ilium, and ramus of the pubes and ischium, are cai'tilaginous. The rami of the ischium and pubes iinite during the eightli year. The epiphyses appear about tlie time ot puberty, that for the Y-shaped cartilage ossifying first; the three parts of the bone unite in the acetabulum at about the seventeenth or eighteenth year, and the bone is completed from the twenty-third to the twenty-fifth year. Articulations.—With three bones ; sacrum, opposite innominate, and temur. Attachment of Muscles and Ligaments.—To thirty-four muscles : to the ilium thirteen ; by the outer Up of the crest, obliquus externus for two-thirds its length, latissimus dorsi one-third, and tensor vagmse fernoris its anterior fourth ; by the middle of the crest, internal oblique three-fourths its length, erector spins) the remaining tourth ; by the internal lip, transversalis three-fourths, and quadratus lumborum the posterior part of its middle third. By the external surface, glqteus medius, minimus, maximus, and one head of the rectus ; by the mternal surface, iliacus ; by the anterior border, sar- tonus, and the other head of the rectus ; by the edge of the nZat sacro-scmtzc foramen pyriformis. To the ischium/iriin- bH external surface, adductor magnus and obturator ex-ternus ; by the internal surface, obturator internus and levator ani; by the spine