534 MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD. i cnlai', forming remarlcable loops of anaHtomosis in tlie interspaces of tlie convolutions, and distriljuting multitudes of minute straight vessels to the grey substance. In the substantia perforata, again, and locus perforatus, it gives off tufts of small arteries, which pierce the white matter to reach the grey substance in the interior. But upon the crura cerebri, pons Varolii, and spinal coi-d, its vascular character seems almost lost. It has become a dense fibrous membrane, difficult to tear off, and forming the ])roper sheath of tlie s])inal cord. The pia mater is the nutrient membrane of the bi'ain, and derives its blood from the internal carotid and vertebral arteries. Lympha- tics have also been described as entering into its structure. Its nerves are the minute filaments of the sympathetic, and filaments from the sensory cranial nerves; they accompany the branches of the arteries. MEMBRANES OF THE SPINAL CORD. The dura mater spinalis is a cylindrical sheath of fibrous mem- l)rane, identical in structure with the dui'a mater of the skull, and continuous with that membrane. At the margin of the occipital fora- men it is closely adherent to the bone; by its an- terior surface it is attached to the posterior common ligament, and be- low, by means of its pointed ex- tremity, to the coccyx. In the rest of its extent it is compara- tively free, being separated from the vertebrae by loose areolar tissue and a plexus of veins. On either side and below, the dura mater forms a sheath for each of the spinal ner^'es, to which it is closely adherent. Upon its inner surface it is smooth, and on its sides may be seen double openings for the two roots of each of the spinal nerves. Fio. 318.—Fourth ventri- cle and upper part of spinal cord and mem- branes. The posterior roots of the nerves are removed on the left side. I. Corpora quad- rigemina. 2. Fillet of the olivary body. 3. Processus e cerebello ad testes. 4. Processus e cerebello ad pontem. 5. Processus e cerebello admedullam. 6. Floor of fourth ventricle. 7. Glosso - pharyngeal nerve. 8. Pneumogas- tric nerve. 9. Spinal accessory nerve. 10. Posterior pyramids of medulla. 11, n. An- terior divisions of spinal nerves. 12, 12. Ganglia of nerves. 13, 13. Posterior divisions of spinal nerves. 14, 14. ir*osterior roots of spinal nerves. 15. Line of origin of posterior roots of left side. 16, 16. Ligamentum denti- culatum. 17, 17. An- terior root of spinal nerves. 18. Duramatcr.