GLOSSARY OF ANATOMICAL TEEMS. 813 iMtoline (Gk. /J.US, a muscle). A transparent substance contained in the i ultimate fibrils of muscular tissue. MxoiDES (Gk. /uCy, a muscle, and eldos, like). Platysma myoides. Mtrtiform (Gk. fxvpTos, a myrtle berry, and Lat. forma, likeness). A fossa on the superior maxillary bone is so called on account of its shape. ,Nares (Lat. nares, the nostrils). The cavities of the nose. Nasal (Lat. nasus, the nose). Belonging to the nose. Nasion (Lat. nasus, the nose). The depression at the junction of the nose with the forehead. Navel (Sax. nafela, from nafa, nave). The vernacular name for the depression in the middle of the abdomen, being the scar left by the detachment of the umbilical cord after parturition. Navicular (Lat. navicula, a small ship). Term applied to the boat-like or scaphoid bone of the wrist. Necrosis (Gk. veKpow, I mortify). Term used to denote death of the bone. Nerves (Lat. nervus, a string or cord). White cords arising from the brain, or the spinal marrow, and distributed over every part of the system. Neuroglia (Gk. vevpov, nerve, and -yKla, glue). The connective elements of nerve tissues. Neurolemma (Gk. vevpov, nerve, and \ef.ifj.a, a skin). The primitive sheath of nerve fibre. NoTOCHORD (Gk. vojTOP, the back, and xop^V> ^ cord). The primitive vertebi'al column. Nucleus (Lat. nucleus, a kernel). A body usually found in the centre of a cell. Nymphje (Gk. l!(vfx(f)ai. Nymphs). Two folds of mucous membrane situated within the labia majora of the pudendum, so called because they direct the course of the urine, Obelion (Gk. ojSeXos, a mark). The slightly flattened area of the skull, near the parietal foramina. Obturator (Lat. ohturo, I stop up). An aperture in the innominate bone which in the recent state is nearly closed by a membrane. Occiput (Lat. oh, caput, against the head). The back part of the head ; the part opposite to the front or sinciput. Odontoid (Gk. 65oi;s, a tooth, and eTSos, like). Resembling a tooth. (Edema (Gk. oiSr)p.a, from otSew, I swell). An infiltration of the subcu- taneous areolar tissue. (Esophagus (Gk. oiu, oiaw, I carry, and efxiyeiv, to eat). The gullet. Olecranon (Gk. uX^vt], the elbow, and Kpavov, the head). The tip of the elbow. Olfactory (Lat. olfacere, to smell). Belonging to the sense of smelling ; the name of the first pair of cerebral nerves. ' Olivary (Lat. oUva, an olive). The olivary bodies are two olive-shaped eminences of the medulla oblongata. Omentum (Lat. omentum, the caul wherein the bowels are wrapped Ains worth). Omo-hyoid (Gk. C5//.0J, the shoulder). Attached to the shoulder and the hyoid bone.