SYMPATHETIC NERVES. 602 mimication with eacli other around the artery. These branches together with those derived from the carotid branch of the Vidian,' constitute the carotid plexus, situated for the most part on the outer side of the artery. Tlie continuation of tlie carotid plexus onwards with the artery by the side of the sella turcica, is the cavernous plexus. The carotid plexus is the centre of conmiunication between all the cranial ganglia and the .sympathetic in the neck; it also com- mimicates with most of the cerebral nerves, and distributes filaments with each of the branches of the internal carotid, to accompany those branches to their ultimate ramifications. The branches which accoin- l^any the anterior cerebral artery at each side, unite upon the ante- rior communicating artery, and according to Eibes form a small ganglion, the ganglion of Eibes. The existence of this ganglion is disputed. The ophthalmic ganglion communicates with the plexus by means of the long branch which reaches it from the cavernous plexus, often in connection with the nasal nerve, but sometimes with the third. The sphe7io-palatine communicates with the plexus by means of the carotid branch of the Vidian. The oiic ganglion is brought into connection with the plexus by means of the communication between the lesser petrosal nerve and tympanic plexus. The carotid plexus communicates with the third nerve in th cavernous sinus, and through the ophthalmic ganglion ; frequently with the fourth in the formation of the nerve of the tentorium; with the Gasserian ganglion ; with the ophthalmic division of the fifth in the cavernous sinus, and by means of the ophthalmic gan- glion ; with the superior maxillary, through the spheno-palatine ganglion ; and with the inferior maxillary, through the otic ganglion. It sends two branches directly to the sixth nerve, which unite wit' it as it crosses the cavernous sinus ; it communicates with the faci and auditory nerves, through the medium of the petrosal branch o the Vidian ; and with the glosso-pharyngeal by means of two fila ments to the tympanic nerve. CERVICAL PORTION OF THE SYMPATHETIC NERVE. The superior cervical ganglion is long and fusiform, of reddish-grey colour, smooth, and of considerable thickness, exten ing from within an inch of the carotid foramen in the petrous bo_ to opposite the lower border of the third cervical vertebra. It is i relation, in front, with the sheath of the internal carotid artery an internal jugular vein ; and, behind, with the rectus anticus maja muscle. Its branches are divisible into superior, inferior, external, a internal; to which may be added, as proper jto tliis ganglio anterior. The superior (carotid nerve) is a single branch which ascends b