ARTICULATIONS. 178 TABLE OF ARTICULATIONS. I. SYNARTHROSIS. Examjjle. 1. Suture .... Tabular bones of skull. 2. Harmonia .... Union of bones of face. 3- Schindylesis . . Vomer with rostrum of sphenoid. 4- Gomphosis .... Teeth with alveolaj' proces.se.s. IL AMPHI-ARTHROSIS. 1. Complete union by libro- ) t ^ . , i cartilage " \ Intervertebral suljstance. 2. Partial synovial cavity . Symphysis pubis, and sacro-iliac ( joint. I. Arthrodia III. DIARTHROSIS. j Sterno- and acromio - clavicular * \ articulations. 2. Ginglymus .... Ankle, ell^ow, knee. 3. TrochoidesO^'lo^^toid process with atlas, and I upper radio-ulnar joint. 4. Condylarthrosis . . | ^'^'Yangetl, mlt^dnr''''' 5- Enarthrosis . . . Hip, shoulder. SYNARTHROSIS {crxjv, ap6paaLs, articulation) includes all those articulations in which there is no apjjreciable movement, the bones being united only by a small quantity of connective tissue, some- times described under the name of the sutural ligament. This class of joints includes all the articulations of the bones of the skull and face, excepting those of the lower jaw. There are three kinds of synarthrosis ; namely. Suture, Schindylesis, and Gomphosis. Suture (sutura, a seam) is the name given to a joint in which the edges of the bone are projected into fine irregular i^rocesses, which fit into the intervals between corresponding processes in the bone with which it joins, somewhat like the dove-tail joint in cabinet- work. Between the bones so articulating there is a small quantity of connective tissue, which in the young skull is continuous with the pericranium on the outside, and with the dura mater on the inside. Three varieties of suture are distinguished,—the Serrated, Harmonia, and Squamous. The sorated suture is formed by the union of two borders possessing serrated edges, as in the coronal, sagittal, and lambdoidal sutures. In these sutures the serrations are formed almost wholly by the external table, the edges of the internal table lying merely in apposition. The serrated suture is formed by the interlocking of the radiating fibres along the edges of the flat