764 URETER. valves, and carry blood distinctly purer than that brought to the kidneys by the arteries. Tlie lymphatic vessels consist of a superficial set placed beneath tlie capsule, and of a deep set whicli accompanies the deep blood-vessels ; both sets terminate in tlic lumbar glands. The nerves are derived from the renal plexus, which is formed partly by the solar plexus, and partly by the third splanchrui nerve. The renal plexus gives branches to the spermatic plexn>, and branches which accompany the ureters. Intertubular Stroma.—The tubules and vessels of the kidney are held together and supported by very fine connective tissue, that in the neighbourhood of the vessels and around the Malpighiaii bodies being fil^rous in its character. The stroma is more abundant in the cortical than in the medullary portion, and is there chiefly formed of connective-tissue corpuscles. The cavity of the kidney is occupied by a membranous bag. the pelvis renalis, which gives off three processes, the infundibula, one for each extremity'', and one for the middle of the organ; and the infundibula give off smaller pio- cesses termed calices, which em- brace the papillas and form a sepa- rate pouch around each ; the calyx being firmly attached to the base of the papilla and continuous with the fibrous capsule. Externally the sac Fio." 471.-TW0 varieties in the ar- of the pelvis renalis contracts into its raiigement of the pelvis and infnn- excretory duct, the ureter. Some- dibuia of the kidney. times there is no true pelvis, the calices uniting to form two or more infundibula ^^•hich join to con- stitute the uretei". Ureter. Tlie ureter (ovpeco, I pass water) is a membranous tube of about the diameter of a goose-quill, and nearly eighteen inches in length, continuous superioi'ly with the pelvis of the kidney, and con- stricted inferiorly, where it lies in an oblique direction between the muscular and mucous coat of the base of the bladder, and open on its mucous surface. Lying along the posterior wall of tl abdomen, it is situated behind the peritoneum, and is cimsed 1 the spermatic vessels ; in its course downwards it rests against tl anterior surface of the psoas, and crosses the comnjon iliac arter; and vein, and then the external iliac vessels. Within the pelvis i crosses the hypogastric cord and vas deferens in the male ; and runs by the side of the cervix uteri and upper ]«irt of the vagina in tlie female. There are sometimes two ureters to one kidney. The ureter, the pelvis, the infundibula, and the calices are com- posed of three coats, external or fibrous, middle or muscular, and le )y If ■y s it