587 ANTEEIOE CKUEAL NEEVE. wards along tlie inner side of the leg, to which it is distributed. While beneath the fascia lata it aids in the formation of a jDlexus by uniting with branches of the long saphenous nerve and descend- ing branch of the obturator. When the latter is large the inner branch of the internal cutaneous nerve is small, and may terminate in the plexus, or merely give off a few cutaneous filaments. The long or internal saphenous nerve inclines inwards to the sheath of the femoral vessels, and passes downwards in front of the sheath and beneath the aponeurotic expansion which covers the sheath, to the opening in the adductor magnus. It then quits the femoral vessels, and continuing to descend, passes between the tendons of the sartorius and gracilis, and reaches the internal saphena vein. By the side of the latter it passes down the inner side of the leg, in front of the inner ankle, and along the inner side of the foot as far as the great toe, being distributed to the integu- ment in its course. The branches of the long saphenous nerve in the thigh are—one or two to join the plexus formed by the obturator and internal cutaneous nerves ; and a large bi'anch, the cidaneits patellce, whicli pierces the sartorius and fascia lata at the inner side of the knee, and divides into many twigs, which are distributed to the integu- ment of the front of the knee. Above the patella this branch com- municates with the anterior brancli of the internal cutaneous nerve, and with the terminal twigs of the middle, and external cutaneous. Below the patella it communicates with other branches of the long saphenous ; the whole of these communications constitiiting a kind of plexus (]3lexus patellae). The branches of the long saplienous nerve below the knee are distributed to the integument of the front and inner side of the leg. By one of these branches it communicates witla the cutaneous branch of the oljturator nerve. The muscular branches of the anterior crural nerve supply all the muscles of the front of the thigh (with the exception of the tensor vaginaD femoris, which obtains its nerve from the superior ■gluteal) and the pectineus. The branch to the fedineus passes be- hind the sheath of the femoral vessels ; the branches to the sartorius, three or four in number, arise with the cutaneous nerves, and some- times are supplied by the latter. Tlie branch to the rectus enters the deep surface of that muscle. The branch to the vastus externus follows the course of the descending branch of the external circum- flex artery ; the branch to the crureus passes directly to that muscle ; and the branch to the vastus internus, remarkable for its lengtli, descends by tlie side of the sheath of the femoral vessels. The articular branches are distributed to the knee-joint; one enters the joint at its outer side, being derived from the nerve of the vastus externus; the other, proceeding from the nerve of the vastus internus, descends with the anastomotica magna to a level with the joint, and then pierces the capsular ligament. The LUMBO-SACRAL NERVE.—The anterior division of the fifth