132 STERNUM. which indicate its original subdivision into six pieces. It is slightly concave behind, broad and thick above, narrowest at the junction of the first and second pieces, and flattened and pointed below ; it is divisible in the adult into three pieces, superior, middle, and inferior, or presternum, mesosternum, and metasternum. The manubriuni (prestermtm) is somewhat triangular in shape ; it is broad and thick above, where it presents a concave border, suprasternal or interclavi- cular notch; and narrow at its junction with the m ddle piece. At each superior angle is a deep articular depression for the clavicle ; and on either side two notches for articulation with the cartilage of the first rib, and one-half that of the second. The junction of the manubrium and body is marked by a transverse ridge, the sternal angle, Avhich serves as a guide to the anterior extremity of the second rib. The body or gladiolus {mesosternum), considerably longer than the superior, is l)road in the middle, and somewhat narrower at each extremity. It presents at each side six articular notches for the lower half of the second rib, the four next ribs, and the upper half of the seventh. The articular notches are placed opposite to the lines which indicate the original sub- division of the bone. This opening of variable size. Fig. 123.—Anterior view of the thorax, i. Manubrium. 2. Body or gladiolus. 3. Ensi- form cartilage. 4. First dorsal vertebra. 5. Last dorsal vertebra. 6. First rib. 7. Its head. 8. Its neclc, resting against the trans- verse process of the first dorsal vertebra. 9. Its tubercle. 10. Seventh or last true rib. 11. Costal cartilages of the true ribs. 12. The last two false ribs or floating riljs. 13. The groove along the lower border of the rib. piece is sometimes perforated by an resulting from arrest of development. The ensiform or xiphoid process {metasternum) is the smallest of the three, often merely cartilaginous, and very variable in appear- ance, being sometimes pointed, at otlier times broad and thin, and at other times, again, perforated by a round hole, or bifid. It pre- sents a notch at each side for articulation with the lower half of the cartilage of the seventh rilx r Development. — The sternum is usually developed from six. centres, one for each of the segments of which the bone primarily