666 HEART. I be seen on the left side of the septum auricularuin. The parts to he\ examined are— ] Four pulmonary veins, j Anriculo-ventricular o])ening, | Musculi pectinati. | The pulmonary veins, two from the right and two from the left lung, open into the back part of the auricle. Tlie two left pul- monary vema terminate frequently by a common opening. The auriculo-ventricular opening is the aperture of commimica- tion between the auricle and ventricle ; it is oval in shape and is a little smaller than the corresponding opening on tlie right side. lo. 387.—Anatomy of the lie.-irt: left side. 1. Ca- vity of left auricle. The figure is placed on tliat portion of the septum auricularuin correspond- ing with the centre of the fossa ovalis. 2. Ca- vity of the auricular ap- pendix, near the apex of vvhicli are seen musciili pectinati. 3. Opening of the two rigl] t pulmonary veins. 4. The sinus, into whichtheleftpulmouai y veins open. 5. Left pul- niouiiry veins. 6. Ain-i- culi I-ventricular opening. 7. Coronary vein, lying m the auriculo-ventricu- lar groove. 8. Left ven- tricle. 9,9. Cavity of the leftveulricle; the figures rest on the septum, a. Mitr.alv.ilvc ; itsfiapsare cimnected by chorda) tendinese to b, b, Ccilumuiii earnca;. c, c. Fixed columns; carnese, forming part of the internal surfa.;c of the ventricle, d. Arcli of tlie aorta, from the summit of which the three arterial trunks of the bead and upper ex- tremities are seen ari.sing. e. Pulmonary artery. ./'. Obliterated ductus arteriosus ; the letter is placed in the clef r Ibrmed by the bifurcation of the iiulmonary artery, r/. Left pulmonary artery, h. Right ventricle, i. Point of the appendix of right auricle. The musculi pectinati are fewer in numbei' tlian in the riylil auricle, and are situated only in the appendix auricuhe. LEFT VENTRICLE.—The' left ventricle is to be opened in the same manner as the right by transfixing its anterior wall close to the septum, and cutting downwards to the apex. The left ventricle is conical in external figure ; it forms tlie ajiex of the heart, by projecting beyond the right ventricle, while the latter has the advanl"age in length towards the base. Its walls are about seven lines in thickness, those of the right ventricle l)en)g about two lines and a half. In cross section its cavity is oval m shape, fi'om the septum bulging toward.s the right side. It presents for examination, in its interior, two openings, two