679 MUSCLES OF THE LARYNX. the arytenoid. The inferior border of the vocal cord is continuous with the lateral exiDansion of the crico-thyroid ligament. The superior border forms the lower boundary of the ventricle of the larynx. The space between the two true vocal cords is the glottis or rima glottidis. 4. The ligaments of the epiglottis are five in number—namely, three glosso-epiglottic, hyo-epiglottic, and thyro-epiglottic. The glosso-epiglottic ligaments are three folds of mucous mem- brane, which connect the anterior surface of the epiglottis with the root of the tongue. The hyo-epiglottic ligament is a band of yellow elastic tissue passing between the anterior aspect of the epiglottis near its apex, and the upper margin of the body of the os hyoides. The thyro - epiglottic ligament is a long and slender fasciculus of yellow elastic tissue, which embraces the apex of the epiglottis, and is inserted into the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage immediately below the anterior fissure and above the attachment of the vocal cords. Muscles.—The intrinsic muscles of the larynx are nine in num- ber ; five of which are the muscles of the vocal cords and riina glottidis, and four are muscles of the epiglottis. The five muscles of the vocal cords and rima glottidis are— Grico-thyroid, Thyro-arytenoideus, Crico-arytenoideus posticus, Arytenoideus. Grico-arytenoideus lateralis, The crico-thyroid. muscle arises from the anterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes obliquely outwards and backwai'ds to be inserted into the lower and inner border of the ala of the thyroid from its tubercle as far bade as the inferior cornu. Some of its fibres are continuous with those of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx, and others with those of the crico-arytenoideus lateralis. The crico-arytenoideus posticus arises from the depression on the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage, and passes upwards and outwards to be inserted into the muscular angle of the arytenoid. Its upper fibres are continuous with the lower fibres of the ary- tenoideus. The crico-arytenoideus lateralis arises from the upper border of the side of the cricoid, and passes upwards and backwards to be inserted into the nuiscular angle of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. The thyro-arytenoideus is situated above the preceding muscle ; it arises from the receding angle of the thyroid cartilage, close to the outer side of the true vocal cord, and passes backwards parallel with the cord, to be inserted into the base and outer and anterior surfaces of the arytenoid cartilage. Some observers describe the fibres of this muscle as being attached to the true vocal cord, spreading along its outer border ; this, however, is nuich disputed, and must be re- garded at present as not definitely proved. The arytenoideus muscle occupies the posterior concave sur- face of the arytenoid cartilages, between which it is stretched; It