469 VERTEBRAL AND SPINAL VEINS. the left innominate vein ;. the branches from the second and third spaces unite to form a common trunk which crosses the arch of the aorta to terminate in the left innominate vein; those from the fourtli to the eighth spaces end in the vena azygos minor superior, and tliose of tlie remaining three spaces in the vena azygos minor inferior (B. G. Morison). The bronchial veins return the blood from the structure of the lungs ; the right empties into the vena azygos major near its termi- nation, and the left in the vena azygos minor superior. VERTEBRAL AND SPINAL VEINS. The niunerous venous plexuses of the vertebral column and spinal cord may be arranged into four groups :— 1. Those ramifying on the arches of the vertebrae externally, dnrsal-spinal. 2. Those situated within the vertebral canal between the vertebrae Fu;. 283.—Vertebral and spinal veins, a. Horizontal view. b. Vertical view. a. Spinous process. 6. Transverse process, c. Body of vertebra, d. Spinal canal. I. Anterior external veins of body. 2. Dorsal spinal veins. 3. Posterior longi- tudinal spinal veins (meningo-rachidian). 4. Anterior longitudinal spinal veins (meningo-racbidian). 5. Veute basis vertebrarum. 6. Lateral vertebral veins. and the membranes, meningo-rachidian. These are further divisible into an anterior and a posterior set. 3. The A^eins of the liodies of the vertebrae, vence bads verte- hvavum. 4. The veins of the spinal cord, medulli-spinal. 1, The dorsal-spinal veins form a plexus around the spinous, transverse, and articular processes, and arches of the ^-ertebrte. They receive the returning blood from the dorsal muscles and sui'- rounding structures, and transmit it, in part to the veins inside the vertebral canal, by branches wliich perforate the ligamenta sub- ftava, and in part to the vertel^ral, intercostal, luml)ar, and sacral vein.s. 2. The meningo-rachidian veins are situated between the spinal dura mater and the vertebra;. They communicate freely with each