520 FOURTH VENTRICLE. cord. The wpfer angle has ojjening into it tlie aqueduct of Sylvius by whicli tlie fourth ventricle communicates with the tliird. Tlu' roof is tent-shaped, and is formed by a thin layer of grey mattei' connecting the up})er part of the two processus e cerebello ad testes called the valve of Vieussens {velum medullare anterius), by the anterior medullary velum, the nodule of the inferior vermifoi'iii process, and the i)ia mater passing from the latter to the medulla. A thickening of the epithelium on the under surface of the i)ia mater at the lower angle of the cavity gives rise to a process called the obex, and a similar thickening running along the side wall froiii the obex to the lateral recess is called the ligula (Fig. 312, l). The floo7- has running down its centre a slight gi^oove continuous with the postei-ior median fissure of the cord, and, crossing its middle, some trans- verse lines, the strice acusticce. These lines mark the superior limit of the medulla ; they also serve to divide the floor of the A^entricle into two tri- angles, the upper lielonging to the medulla, and the lower to the pons. These are again divided vertically Ijy the median fissure, and each of the four divisions so formed is marked by a triangular depression or fovea. The division formed by the medulla may be defined as consisting of (i) the depres- sion of the inferior fovea; (2) a ridge between it and the median fissure, the fascicxihts teres; (3) a pro- minence between the fovea and the lateral wall, the tuberculum amsticum; and (4) a grey mass between the fovea and the inferior angle, the ala cinerea. In like manner the area belonging to the pons consists of: (i) the superior fovea, (2) the upper part of the fasciculus teres, and (3) a pigmented area between the superior fovea and the lateral wall, the locus ceruleus. The lateral houndaries of the ventricle are : in the upper part, the two processus e cerebello ad testes ; in the lower, the funiculi graciles witli their clavce ; above these the funiculi cuneati, and still higher up the restiform bodies. The roof of the fourth ventricle has been already described as partly formed by pia mater covered by epithelium. In the part so formed there is a small opening, the foramen of Magendie, placed a little above the calamus sciiptorius, by means of M'hich the cavity of the ventricle communicates with the i:)osterior sub-arachnoid space ; other openings also exist in each lateral recess. In the floor of the fourth ventricle are placed the nuclei of origin of tlie chief cranial nerves, as well as the vaso-motor, cardiac, and respiratory centres. The nucleus of the hypoglossal nerve lies be- neath the fasciculus teres. In the lower part of the ala cinerea is situated the nucleus of the spinal accessory nerve ; in its upper part the nuclei of the vagus and glosso-pharyngeal nerves, the latter being Pig. .312. — Dia- grammatic view of the floor of the fourth ven- tricle, in.s. Mesial sulcus. s.f. Superior fo- vea. L.r. Late- ral recess, str. Striseacusticse. i.f. Inferior fo- vea. «. a. Tuber- culum acusti- cutn. a.c. Ala cinerea. I. Ligula. {E. A. Schcifer.)