378 AORTA. of tlie fifth floT'sal vei-tebra, and at tlie lower border of the latter vertebra becoiuew the thoi-acic aorta. The first or ascending portion of the arch, a little more than two inches in length, is almost wliolly contained within the pericardium ; it extends from the third costal cartilage of the left side, to the upper border of the second cartilage of the right side, at its junc- tion with the sternum. It has in front the pulmonary artery, right auricular appendix, pericardium and thymus gland ; on its left side the pulmonary artery ; on its right the right auricle and superior vena cava; and behind the right pulmonary artery and veins. The second or transverse portion of the arch is directed back- wards and to the left, and extends from the second costal cartilage on the right side to the left side of the body of the fourth dorsal vertebra. It has in front, the left i3leura and lung, remains of thymus gland, left phrenic nerve, left superior cardiac nerve, left inferior cardiac of the pneumogastric, left pneumogastric nerve, and left superior intercostal vein. Behind it is in relation with the trachea, oesophagus, thoracic duct, deep cardiac plexus, and left re- current laryngeal nerve. Above it gives off the arteria innominata, left carotid and left subclavian artery, and h;i3 lying on it the left vena innominata ; and beloiv is in relation with the superficial cardiac plexus, bifurcation of the pulmonary artery, cord of the ductus arteriosus, left bronchus, and left recurrent nerve. The third or descending portion of the ai'ch lies against the fifth dorsal vertebra, and is j)artially covered by the left pleura. It is in relation in front with the pleura and root of the left lung, behind with the body of the fifth dorsal vertebra, on the right side with the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and on the left with the pleura. Descending Aorta.—The descending aorta is subdivided, in cor- respondence with the two great cavities of the trunk, into the thoracic and abdominal aorta. Thoracic Aorta.—The thoracic aorta, commencing at the lower border and left side of the fifth dorsal vertebra, curves gentlj'- towards the right as it descends, and as it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm lies on the middle line of the vertebral column in front of the last dorsal vertebra. It is in relation behind, with the vertebral column and lesser-vena azygos ; in front, with the CESophagus, left pulmonary artery, left bronchus, pericardium, and right iJneumogastric nerve ; to tlie_ left side, with the pleura, left lung, and oesophagus ; and to the right, with the oesophagus, vena azygos major, and thoracic duct. Abdominal Aorta.—The aorta enters the abdomen through a special opening in the diaphragm, and, as it lies against the liody of the last dorsal vertebra, receives the name of abdominal aorta: it passes downwards, and on the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle line, divides into the two common iliac arteries. Its relations and branches will be described on a later page.