CRANIAL NERVES. 544 facial and aunculo-temporal nerves. In the temporal fossa it com municates with the dec]) temporal nerves. Tlie malar, or inferior branch (subcutaneous malce) takes its course along tlie lower aiialc oi the outer wall of the orbit, and emerges on the cheek tlirougli ai, opening m the malai- Ijone, passing between tlie filn-es of the orlncu- hu-is palpebrarum muscle. It communicates with branches of the intra-orbital and facial nerve. The spheno-palatine branches, two in number, pass downward- to the spheuo-palatine oi' Meckel's ganglion. The posterior dental branches, two in number, pass downwards upon the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone, where one entei s Pio. 324. — Pterygo- maxillary region and fifth nerve, i. Tem- poral fascia. 2. Tem- poral muscle. 3. Tem- poral branches of auriculo - temporal nerve. 4. Anterior deep temporal nerve. 5. Posterior deep temporal nerve. 6. External pterj'goid muscle. 7. Deep tem- poral branch of mas- seteric nerve (in- constant). 8. Buccal nerve. 9. Masseteric nerve. 10. Buccal branch of seventh. ii.Auriculo-temporal nerve. 12. Lingual nerve. 13. Facial nerve at stylo-mas- toid foramen. 14. Buccinator muscle. 15. Internal ptery- goid. 16. Supra- maxillary branch of seventh. 17. Inferior dental nerve. 18. Its mental branches. 19. Its mylo - hyoid branch. 20. Inferior dental canal opened. 21. Ma.sseter (turned down). a canal in the l^one, and is distrilnited to the molar teeth and lining membrane of the antrum, and communicates with the anterior dental nerve ; while the other, lying externally to the bone, is dis- tributed to the gums and buccinator muscle. The middle and anterior dental branches descend to the corre- sponding teeth and gums ; the former beneath the lining membrane of the antrum, the latter through distinct canals in the walls of the bone. Previously to their distribution, the dental nerves form a plexus in the outer wall of the su]ierior maxillary bone immediately above the alveolus. From tliis plexus filaments are given off M'liicn supply the pulps of the teeth, gums, mucous membrane of the floor