85 SACRUM. parallel with the median crest, is a range of five small tubercles which rejjresent the articular processes of the true vertebrte ; beyond these is a shallow groove in which the four posterior sacral foramina open, and farther outwards, a range of five tubercles corresponding ■with the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae. The lowest pair of articular tubercles bound on each side the termination of the sacral canal, and send each a j^rocess downwards to articulate with the coccyx. The two descending j)rocesses are the sacral carnua. The posterior sacral foramina are smaller than the anterior, and transmit the posterior sacral nerves. Of the posterior transvei'se tubercles the Jirst corresponds with the angle of the suiDerior border of the bone ; the second is small, and enters into the formation of the sacro-iliac articulation ; the third is large, and gives attachment to the oblique sacro-iliac ligament; the foiirth and fifth are smaller, and serve for the attachment of the sacro-iscliiatic ligaments. The lateral border of the sacrum presents superiorly a broad and Fig. 91.—Posterior view of the sacrum, i, i. The four rudimentary spinous processes. 2. The sacral camxi. 3, 3. Rudimentary arti- cular processes. The lowest of these pro- cesses, with the corresponding process of the opposite side, 4, are the sacral cornua. 5, 5, The four posterior sacral foramina. 6, 6. Posterior transverse tubercles. 7. The auricular surface. 8. Sliarp edge f(jr the attachment of the sacro-ischiatic ligaments. 9. Surface for articulation with the body of the last lumbar vertebra. 10, 10. Articu- lating facets of the articular processes. II. Apex of the sacrum by which itarticulares with the coccyx. 12. Rough surface for the attachment of the postei-ior sacro-iliac ligaments. ear-shaped (auricular) surface to articulate with the ilium ; and inferiorly a sharp edge, to which the greater and lesser sacro-ischiatic ligaments are attached. The back part of this border is marked by rough prominences and deep depressions for the posterior sacro-iliac ligaments. On the superior border, in the middle line, is an oval articular surface, corre.sponding with the under ]iart of the body of the last lumbar vertebra ; and on each .side a broad triangular surface, which supports the luinl)o-sacral nerve and psoas magnus muscle. Immedi- ately beliind the vertebral articular surface is the triangular entrance of the sacral canal; and, on each side of this opening, an articular process, whicli looks backwards and iuAvards, like the superior arti- cular processes of the lumljar vertel)r8e. In fi-ont of each articular process is an intervertebral notch. The inferior extremity/ of the bone ]jresents a small oval surface which articulates with the coccyx ; and on each side a notch, which