723 STRUCTURE OF (ESOPHAGUS. gradually passes round to the front and the right to the back. The vena azygos major is in relation with its right side in the thorax. Structure.—The oesophagus is formed of three coats—an outer, muscular; a middle, submucous or areolar; and an inner, mucous. External to the muscular coat there is, however, a layer of areolar tissue, containing many elastic fibres. The muscular coat consists in its upper part of striped fibres, but these gradually pass, about its middle, into the unstriped variety, and in its lower part the latter form only is found. The fibres are arranged in an outer longitudinal, and an imier circular layer ; the longitudinal fibres are in the upper part of the tube disposed in three fasciculi, two lateral, which are continuous with those of the inferior constrictor, and one anterior which is attached to the vertical ridge of the cricoid cartilage. The circular fibres are attached superiorly to the cricoid cartilage ; they are transverse in their arrangement, above and below, but spiral in the middle of the oesophagus. Below, both sets of fibres are con- tinuous mth those of the stomach. A band of unstriped muscle is frequently found passing from the left pleura to the oesophagus, and occasionally a similar band from the left bronchus. The submucous coat loosely connects the mucous and muscular coats ; it is thicker than the latter, is composed of areolar tissue containing many elastic fibres, and has embedded in it the glands which open on to the surface of the mucous membrane. The mucous membrane is pale in colour, but of firm texture. It is stiidded over with a number of very fine j)apillfe, and is covered by a stratified epithelium. A number of racemose glands situated in the submucous tissue, open by short ducts on to its surface. Between it and the submucous layer is a thin stratum of unstriped muscle, the fibres of Avhich are for the most part longitudinally disposed, and have been named the muscularis mucosw. THE STOMACH. The stomach is an expansion of the alimentary canal, situated in the left hypochondriac and epigastric regions. The hyiDochondriac part forms fully three-fourths of the organ ; it is vertical in direction, and the fundus extends to the highest limit of the region. The epi- gastric part is transverse in direction, and lies about three fingers' breadth below the ensiform cartilage (Cunningham). On account of the peculiarity of its form, it is divided into a middle part or body, a greater or splenic, and a lesser or pyloric end; a lesser curvature above, and a greater curvature below ; an anterior and a posterior siorface; a cardiac orifice, and a pyloric orifice. The great end (fundus) is not only of large size, but expands beyond the point of entrance of the (esophagus, and is embraced by the concave surface of the spleen ; it presents superiorly a funnel-shaped expansion, leading to the cardiac orifice. The pylorus (janitor) is the small and contracted extremity of the organ; it is situated on a plane anterior and inferior to the cardiac orifice, and lies in contact with the under surface of the