663 EIGHT VENTRICLE. The tubercle of Lower is tlie portion of auricle intervening between the openings of the superior and inferior cava. Being thicker than the walls of the veins, it forms a projection, which was supposed by Lower to direct the blood from the superior cava into the auriculo-ventricular opening. It is better marked in the lower animals than in man. The musculi pectinati are small muscular columns situated in the auricular appendix. They are numerous, and arranged parallel with each other ; hence their cognomen pectinati, like the teeth of a comb. They terminate posteriorly on a vertical ridge, the crista terminalis of His. The RIGHT or ANTERIOR VENTRICLE is triangular in form. Its walls form the chief part of the anterior surface and lower border of the heart, and a small portion of the posterior surface. The pos- terior side, which is also inferior, is flat, and rests on the diaphragm ; the inner side corresponds with the partition between the two ventricles, septum ventriculorum; the anterior side is convex. Superiorly where the pulmonary artery arises, there is a dilatation of the ventricle, termed the infundibulum, or conus arteriosus. The ventricular septum bulges towards the right, so that in cross sections of the heart, the cavity of the right ventricle is crescentic. Dissection.—The right ventricle is to be laid open by grasj)ing the wall with the left hand, transfixing it with the scalpel about ,half-way down, and carrying the incision onwards to the apex of the heart. It contains, to be examined, two openings, the auriculo-ventricular and that of the pulmonary artery ; two apparatus of valves, tricuspid and semilunar ; and a muscular and tendinous apparatus belonging to the tricuspid valves. They may be thus arranged :— Auriculo-ventricular opening. Tricuspid valve, Opening of the pulmonary artery. Semilunar valves. Chordae tendinete, Columnce carnese. The auriculo-ventricular opening is surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by tlie lining membrane (endocardium) of the heart. It is the opening of communication between the right auricle and ventricle. The opening of the pulmonary artery is situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum, on the left side of the right ventricle, and upon the anterior aspect of the heart. The tricuspid valve is formed by three triangular folds of the lining membrane, strengthened by a thin layer of fibrous tissue.' They are connected by their base around the auriculo-ventricular opening; and by their sides and apices Avhich are thickened, they give attachment to a number of slender tendinous cords, called chorda) tendinea). The chordae tendinese are the tendons of the thick muscular columns (cohmim carnece) wliich stand out from tlie