PALATE BONES. 114 edge, where it unites with its fellow of the opposite side and forms part of a crest (nasal or 'palate crest), Avhicli articulates with the vomer. The inferior mrface is uneven, and niai'ked by a slight transverse ridge, to which is attached the tendinous expansion of the tensor palati muscle. Near its external boi'dei- are two openings, one large and one small, the jyosterior indatina foramina; they are the terminations of two minute canals, and transmit the descending palatine artery and nerves. The posterior' border is concave, and presents at its inner extremity a sharp point, which, Avitli a cori-e- sponding point in the opposite bone, constitutes the palate spine for the attachment of the azygos uvulae muscle. The perpendicular plate is also quadrilateral ; and presents two surfaces, one internal or nasal, forming part of the wall of the nares ; the other external, bounding the spheno-maxillary fossa and antrum. The internal surface is marked near its middle by a horizontal ridge (inferior turbinal crest), to which is united the inferior turbinated bone ; and about half an inch above this, by another ridge (superior turbinal crest), for the attachment of the middle turbinated bone. Fio. 114.—Perpendicular plate of the right palate boue, seen on its external or spheno-niaxillary surface. I. The rough surface of this plate, which articulates with tbe superior maxillary boue and bounds the antrum. 2. Posterior palatine canal; completed by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and pterygoid process of sphenoid. The rough surface to the left of the canal (2) articulates with the internal pterygoid plate. 3. Spheno-palatine notch. 4, 5, 6. Orbital portion of the perpendicular plate. 4. Spheno-maxillary surface of this portion. 5. Orbital surface. 6. Maxillary surface, to articulate with the superior maxillary bone. 7. Sphenoidal por- tion of the perpendicular plate. 8. Pterygoid pro- cess or tuberosity of the boue. The concave surface below the inferior ridge is the lateral boundary of the inferior meatus of the nose ; that between the tAvo ridges corresponds Avjth the middle meatus, and the surface above the superior ridge with the superior meatus. The external surface is rough on each side for articulation with neighbouring bones, and smooth in the middle to constitute the inner boundary of the spheno-maxillary fossa. This smooth surface terminates inferiorly in a deep groove, which, being completed by the tuberosity of the superior maxillary bone and pterygoid process of the sphenoid, forms the descending jyalafine canal. Near the upper part of the perpendicular plate is a large oval notch completed by the sphenoid, the spheno-palatine foramen, which transmits the superior nasal aud naso-palatine nerves and spheno- palatine artery, and serves to divide the upper extremity of the lione into two portions, an anterior or orbital, and a posterior or sphenoidal portion. The orbital portion is hollow Avitliin, and pre- sents five surfaces externally, three articular and two free ; the tlu^ee articular are, anterior, which looks forward and articulates with the