i86 LIGAMENTS OF THE AXIS AND OCCIPITAL BONE. and below, to tlie posterior arch of the atlas. It is closely adherent to the dura mater, by its inner surface ; and forms a ligamentous arch at each side for the passage of the vertel)i"al artery and first cervical nerve. It corresponds in its position to the ligamenta sub- flava of the other vertebrae, but it has no elastic filjres, l)eing com- posed entirely of white fibrous tissue. The two lateral ligaments are strong fasciculi of ligamentous fibres, attached below to the base of the transverse process of the atlas at each side ; and above, to the transverse process of the occipital bone. The capsular ligaments are thin and loose ligamentous capsules which surround the synovial membranes of the articulations between the condyles of the occipital Ijone and the superior articular pro- cesses of the atlas. The ligamentous fibres are most numerous on the anterior and external part of the articulation. The movements taking place between the cranium and atlas are those of flexion and extension, giving rise to the forward nodding of the head ; there is also a slight lateral movement to either side. When either of these actions is increased to any extent, the whole of the cervical region concurs in its production. 3. ARTICULATION OF THE AXIS WITH THE OCCIPITAL BONE. —The ligaments of this articulation are four in number :— Occipito-axial, Three odontoid. The occipito-axial ligament (apparatus ligamentosus colli) is a broad and strong band, which covers in the odontoid process and its ligaments. It is attached below to the body of the axis, where it Fig. 153.—Upper part of the vertebral canal, opened from behind in order to show the occipito-axial ligament, i. Basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. 2. Section of the occipital bone. 3. Atlas, its posterior arch removed. 4. Axis, posterior arc! 1 removed. 5. Occi- pito-axial ligament, rendered promi- nent at its middle by the projection of the odontoid process. 6. Lateral and capsular ligament of the occipito- atlantal articulation. 7. Capsular liga- ment of the articular process of the atlas and axis. is continuous with the posterior common ligament; superiorly it is inserted by a broad expansion into the basilar groove of the occipital bone, where it is blended with the dura mater. The odontoid ligaments {alar or elude licjanunts) are two short and thick fasciculi, which pass outwards from the apex of the odontoid process to the sides of the occipital foramen and condyles. A third and smaller fasciculus (ligamentum dentis suspensorium) proceeds from the apex of the odontoid process to the anterior margin of the foramen magnum.