LIGAMENTS OF THE ATLAS AND OCCIPITAL BONE. 185 upwards and forwai'ds, while the otlier travels downwards and backwards. In the dorsal region rotation is free (especially in the upper part), the movement taking place I'ound an axial line running through the centre of the vertebral bodies. The articular processes of the lumbar region are so disposed as to prevent anything like free rotation, but as the capsules are lax and the facets do not fit closely to each other, a slight degree of rotatory motioai does take place. Lateral flexion may take place in any part of the spine, but is most free in the cervical and lumbar I'egions. 2. AETICULATION OF THE ATLAS WITH THE OCCIPITAL BONE. —The ligaments of this articulation az^e seven in number :— Two anterior occipito-atlantal, Posterior occipito-atlantal. Two latei'al occipito-atlantal. Two capsular. The most external o Of the two anterior ligaments, one is a rounded cord, situated in the middle line, and attached above to the basilar process of the Fig. 151.—Anterior view of the ligaments conneciing the Jitlas, axis, and occipital \M bone. A transverse section has been carried V through the base of the skull, dividing the basilar process of the occipital bone and tlie petrous portion of the temporal bones, i. Anterior round occipito-atlantal ligament. 2. Anterior broad occit)ito-atlantal liga- ment. 3. Commencement of the anterior common ligament. 4. Anterior .atlanto- a.Kial ligament, continuous inferiorly witli the commencement of the anterior common lig.ament. 5. One of the atlanto-axial cap- sular ligaments; that on the opposite side has been removed to show the approxi- mated surfaces of the articular processes (6). 7. One of the occipito-atlantal capsiilar ligament,';, these fibres constitute the lateral occipito-atlantal ligament, occipital bone ; below, to the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The dee]ier ligament is a broad membranous layer, attached above to the margin of the occipital foramen, between the two condyles ; and Fic. 152.—Posterior ligaments of the occi- pito-atlantal and atlanto-axial articula- tions. 1. Atlas. 2. Axis. 3. Posterior ligament of the occipito-atlantal articu- lation. 4, 4. Cai)sular and lateral liga- ments of this articulation. 5. Posterior ligament of the atlanto-axial articula- tion. 6,6. Its capsular ligaments. 7. The first pair of ligamenta subflava ; i>assing Ijctwoen the axis and third cervical vertebra. 8, 8. Capsular ligaments of those vertcbrte. below, to the whole length of the anterior arch of the atlas ; it is continuous Jaterally with the capsular ligaments. 'J he posterior ligament is thin and membranous ; attached above to tlie margin of the occi])ital foramen, between the two condyles •