CEREBRUM. 504 The inner surface of the hemisphere (Fig. 301) at its anterior part ]3resent.s two large convolutioiiR, tlie iipper, the marginal convolutim (i) (convolution of longitudinal lissure), and the lower, the convolu- tion of the mjms callosum (2) or (jijrus fornicatus, separated by the calloso-marginaL fissure (cm) which i'eaches the margin of the hemi- sphere, a little ])osterior to the position of the fissure of Rolando, and bounds the marginal convolution Ijehind. The marginal convolution (i) commences in front of the anterioi- perforated spot, and runs along the edge of the longitudinal fissure to the point where the calloso-marginal fissure turns up to the edge of the hemisphere. It is continuous over the edge of the longitu- dinal fissure with the inner orljital, superior frontal, ascending frontal, and ascending parietal convolutions. The gyrus fornicatus (2) is a well-marked convolution A\duch begins at the anterior perforated space in the base of the In-ain, and Pio. 301.—The inner and under surfaces of the brain to show the convolutions. F. Frontal lobe. p. Parietal lobe. q. Quadrate lobe. o. Ctmeus lobe, t, t. Tem- poral lobe. CM. Calloso-marginal fissure, po. Parietal-occipital fissure, cc. Cal- carine fissure. Co. Collateral fissure, i, i. Marginal convolution. 2, 2. Gyrus fornicatus. 3, 3. Uncinate gyrus. 4. Dentate convolution. 5. United corpus callosum and fornix. 6. Genu of eorijus callosum. 7. Cavity of latei-al ventricle. 8. Fornix. 9. Thalamus with oorpoi'a geuiculata. 10. Fascia dentata in dentate fissure. winds round the corpus callosum to the postei'ior part, where it lie- comes continuous with the upper internal temporal convolution or uncinate gyrus. It becomes connected in its course with the frontal convolutions, the quadrate lobe, the cuneus, and the lingual lobule. As it winds round the splenium of the corj^us callosum it bomids the fissure of the hippocampus which forms the hippocampus major ; hence this portion of the gyrus receives the name of gyrus hippocavipi. Posterior to the marginal convolution and continuous below with the gyrus fornicatus is the quadrate lobe {frecuneus) (q), which is separated from the cuneus lobe (o) by the parieto-occipital fissure (po), a continuation of the fissure of the same name seen externally.