PLANTAR REGION. 372 between the metatarsal bones; they resemble the corresponding mnscles in the hand in arising by two heads from the adjacent sides of the metatarsal bones ; their tendons are inserted into' the base of the first phalanx, and the digital expansion of the tendons of the long extensor. The dorsal interossei mnscles all abduct from the niiddle line of the second toe. The tendon of the first is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the second toe, the other tendons into the enter side of the first phalanges of the' second, third, and fonrth toes. Nerve-supply.—External plantar nerve. Relations.—By their ^q)per surface Avith a strong fascia which separates them from the extensor tendons. By their under surface with the plantar interossei. Each of the muscles gives passage to a small ai'tery (posterior perforating) which communicates with the external plantar artery ; and between the heads of the first inter- osseous muscle the dorsalis pedis artery takes its course. Plantar Region. First Layer. Abductor hallucis. Abductor minimi digiti, Flexor brevis digitorum. Dissection.—The sole of the foot is best dissected by carrying an incision around the heel and along the inner and outer border of the foot, to the great and little toe. This incision should di-\ade the integument and superficial fascia, and l^oth together should be dis- sected from the deep fascia, as far forward as the base of the j^ha- langes, where they should be removed from the foot altogether. The j)lantar fascia should then be raised by a transverse incision made through it at about the middle of the foot, and should be turned over towards the toes ; the first layer of muscles will thus be brought into view. The ABDUCTOR HALLUCIS lies along the imier border of the foot; it arises by two heads, l)etween which the tendons of the long flexors, arteries, veins, and nerves enter the sole of the foot. One head j^roceeds from the inner tuberosity of the os calcis, the other from the internal annular ligament and plantar fascia ; it is inserted along with the inner head of the flexor l)revis hallucis into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and into the internal sesamoid bone. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the internal portion of the plantar fascia. By its dee20 surface with the flexor brevis hallucis, flexor accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digitorum, flexor longus hallucis, tilnalis anticus and posticus, plantar vessels and nerves, and tarsal bones. At its outer border with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by a vertical se]itum of the plantar fascia.