336 MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. radius, to be inserted into of the shaft, excepting its lllli, Fui. 231.—Ueeplayei- of muscles of the posterior aspect of the forearm. 1. Humerus. 2. Olecranon. 3. Uhia. 4. An- coneus. 5. Supinator brevis. 6. Extensor ossis metacarpi poUicis. 7. Extensor primi interuodii pollicis. 8. Ex- tensor secundi internodii pollicis. 9. Extensorindicis. 10. First dorsal interosseous muscle. The other three dorsal intercssei are seen be- tween the metacarpal bones of their respective fingers. extensor ossis inetacarpi, phalanx of the thumb. the neck of that bone and the upper third internal border, as low down as the inser- tion of the pronator tei-es. The posterior interosseous nerve perforates tlie lower border of this muscle. Relations.—By its swperjkial mrface with the pronator radii teres, supinatoi- longus, extensor carpi radialis longior and brevior, extensor communis digitoi-um, extensor carpi ulnaris, anconeus, radial artery and veins, musculo-spiral nerve, radial and posterior interosseous neryc. By its deep surface with tlie elljow-joiiit and ligaments, interosseous membrane, and radius. Nerve - supply. — Posterior interosse- ous. The EXTENSOR OSSIS METACAEPI POLLICIS is placed immediately below the supinator brevis. It arises from tlie ulna, interosseous membrane, and radiu-^, and is inserted into the base of the meta- carpal bone of the thumb. Its tendon passes through the groove immediatel>- in front of the stj^oid process of tlie I'adius. Relations.—By its superjicidl siirfcu-: with the extensor carjn ulnaris, extensor minimi digiti, extensor communis digi- torum, fascia of the forearm, and annula • ligament. By its deep surface with tin- ulna, interosseous membrane, radius, ten- dons of the extensor carj^i radialis longior and brevior, and supinator longus, and at the wrist with the radial artery. By its iqjper border with the edge of the supinator brevis ; by its lower border with the extensor secundi and primi internodii. It is crossed by branches of the posterioi' interosseous arterj' and nerve. Nerve - supply.—Posterior interosse- ous. The EXTENSOR PRIMI INTERNODII POLLICIS, the smallest of the muscles in this layer, arises from the posterior surfat-e of the interosseous membrane and radins. and passes through the groove with the to be inserted into the base of the fii^i i