125 REGIONS OF THE SKULL. along its posterior circumference by the groove for the lateral sinuses ; it giA^es support to the pons Varolii, medulla oblongata, and cerebellum. In the centre of this fossa is the foramen magnum, bounded at each side by a rough tubercle, Avhich gives attachment to the odontoid ligament, and by the anterior condylar foramen. In front of the foramen magnum is the concave surface which supports the medulla oblongata and j)ons Varolii, and on each side the following foramina, from before backwards. The i 11 ternal anditory meatus for the auditory and facial nerves and auditory artery; behind, and externally to this, is a small foramen leading into the aquceduchis vestibuli; and below it, partly concealed by the edge of the petrous bone, the aqucec/uctus cochlece; next, a long fissure, the foramen lacerum posterius ot jugular foramen, i:)artially divided into two by the jugular spine, the outer portion giving passage to the termination of the inferior petrosal and lateral sinuses, and the inner to the ninth, tenth, and eleventh j^airs of nerves. Converging towards this foramen from behind is the deep groove of the lateral sinus, and from the front the groove for the inferior petrosal sinus. Behind the foramen magnum is the internal occipital crest, which gives attachment to the falx cerebelli, and divides the two inferior fossae of the occipital l^one; and above the ridge is the internal occipital protuberance, the transverse groove lodging the lateral sinus, and the transverse ridge giving attachment to the tentorium •cerebelli. The external surface of the base of the skull is extremely uneven. From before backwards it is formed by the palate processes of the superior maxillary and palate bones ; the vomer ; pterygoid, spinous processes, and part of the body of the sphenoid ; under surface of the squamous, petrous, and mastoid portion of the temporals ; and by the occipital bone. The palate processes of the superior maxil- lary and palate bones constitute the hard palate, which is raised above the level of the rest of the base (when the skull is turned over for the purpose of examination), and is surrounded by the alveolar processes containing the teeth of the upper ja.M\ At the anterior extremity of the hard palate, and directly behind the front incisor teeth, is the anterior palatine or incisive foramen, Avhich transmits the naso-palatine nerves and anterior palatine arteries. At the posterior angles of the palate are the p)osterior palatine fora- mina, for the palatine nerves and arteries. Passing inwards from these foramina is the transverse ridge, to which are attached the aponeurotic expansions of the tensor palati muscles ; and at the middle Ime of the posterior border, the 'palate spine, Avhich gives origin to the azygos uvulaj. The hard palate is marked by a crucial suture, which distinguishes the four processes of which it is com- posed. Behind, and above the hard palate, are the posterior vares separated hj the vomer, and bounded at each side by the internal pterygoid plates. At the base of the pterygoid plates are the pterygo-palatme canals. The internal pterygoid plate is lono- and narrow, terminated at its apex by the liamular process, and at