252 DEPRESSORS OF THE HYOID BONE AND LARYNX. The superior carotid triangle (the place of selection ior ligature of the carotid artery) is liounded l^y the anterior liorder of the aterno-niastoid, the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid, and the pos- terior belly of the digastricus. Its iioor is formed by jjaits of the thyro-hyoid, hyo-glossus, and middle and inferior constrictor muscles, and its roof by the integument, superficial fascia, platysma, and deep fascia. It contains the common, external and internal carotid arteries, tlie superior thyroid, lingual, facial, occipital, and ascending pharyngeal arteries ; the superior thyroid, lingual, facial, ascending j)haryngeal and internal jugular veins; the hypoglossal, vagus, spinal accessory, descendens cervicis, superior laryngeal and sympathetic nerves ; the upper part of larj'nx and lower part of pharynx ; some lymphatic vessels and glands. The submaxillary triangle is bounded above by the lower border of the body of the lower jaw, the parotid gland and mastoid process, below by the posterior belly of the digastricus and the stylo-hyoid, in front by the mesial line. Its floor is formed by the anterior belly of the digastricus, the mylo-hyoid and hyo-glossus muscles. The space contains the submaxillary gland, facial artery and vein, sub- mental artery, mylo-hyoid artery and nerve, external carotid artery, part of the parotid gland, intei-nal carotid artery, commencement of external and interior jugular veins, pneumogastric and glosso- pharyngeal nerves, and submaxillary lymi^hatic vessels and glands. Second Group.—Depressors of the Os Hyoides and Larynx. Sterno-hyoid, Thyro-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, Omo-hyoid. Dissection.—These muscles are brought into view hy removing tlie deep fascia from the front of the neck between the two sterno- mastoid muscles. The omo-hyoid to be seen in its whole extent requires that the sterno-mastoid muscle be divided from its origin and turned aside. . . The STERNO-HYOID is a narrow ribbon-like muscle, arimui Ironi the posterior surface of the first bone of the sternum and from the inner extremity of the clavicle. It is inserted into the lower border of the body of the hyoid bone. Relations.—Bv its superficial surface with the sternum, sternal end of clavicle, deep cervical fascia, platysma myoides and sterno- mastoid muscle ; by its (hep surface with the sterno-thyroid, crico- thyroid, and thvro-hyoid muscles, superior thyroid artery, thyroid gland, crico-thyroid and thyro-hyoid membranes. Nerve-supply.—Descendens cervicis. i • i The STERNO-THYEOID, broader than the preceding, beneath wlucn it lies arises from the posterior surface of the upper bone of the sternum, and from the cartilage of the first rib ; it is inserted into the oblique line on the great ala of the thyroid cartilage. The inner