412 RADIAL ARTERY. In the hand it rests on the bases of the metacarpal hones and tl._ interossei muscles, and is covered by the flexor tendons, flexor longus pollicis, lumbricales, opponens minimi digiti, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and flexor brevis pollicis. It is accompanied by the deep ulnar nerve. Tlie branches of the radial artery may be arranged into tliree groups, corresponding with the three regions—forearm, wrist, and hand ; they are— Forearm. Radial recurrent, Muscular. Wrist. Superficialis volae, Metacarpal, Anterior carpal, Dorsales pollicis, Posterior carpal, Dorsalis indicis. Hand. Pi'inceps pollicis, Interosseous, Radialis indicis. Perforating, Recurrent. The radial recurrent branch is given ofl" immediately below the elbow ; it ascends in the space between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, sends branches to the muscles arising from the external condyle, and inosculates with the terminal branches of the superior profunda. The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles of the radial border of the forearm. The superficialis volae is given off by the radial artery while at the wrist. It passes between the fibres of the abductor pollicis muscle, and inosculates with the termination of the ulnar artery, completing the superficial palmar arch. This artery is variable in size, being sometimes as large as the continuation of the radial, at other times a mere muscular twig, or entirely wanting; when of large size it supplies the palmiir side of the thumb and radial side of the index finger. The anterior carpal passes inwards along the lower border of the pronator quadratus, and forms an arch by inosculating with the anterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. From this arch twigs are given off to supply the wrist-joint. The posterior carpal arises from the radial artery beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb ; it crosses the carpus transversely, and inosculates with the ]30sterior carpal branch of the ulnar artery. Superiorly it inosculates with the termination of the anterior inter- osseous artery ; inferiorly it gives off dorsal interosseous branches, which anastomose with the perforating branches of the deep palmar arch, and run forward upon the dorsal interosseous muscles of the third and fourth metacarpal spaces. The metacarpal oi- first dorsal interosseous branch often arises in common with the posterior carpal; it runs forward to the meta-