202 SHOULDER-JOINT. hence the ligament is sometimes described as being formed by the splitting of that tendon. The cavity of the articulation is traversed by the long tendon of the bicej^s, which is enclosed in a sheath of synovial membrane in its passage through the joint. The synovial membrane of the shoulder-joint is extensive ; it communicates anteriorly through an opening in the capsular ligament with a large bursal sac, which lines the under surface of the tendon of the subscapularis muscle. Superiorly it frequently communicates through another opening in the capsular ligament with a bursal sac belonging to the infra-spinatus muscle ; and it moreover forms a sheath around that portion of the tendon of the biceps which is included within the joint. Capsular Muscles.—The muscles immediately surrounding the shoulder-joint are—the subscapularis, supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, teres minor, long head of the triceps, and deltoid; the long tendon of the biceps is within the capsular ligament. Actions.—The shoulder-joint is capable of every variety of motion—viz., of movement forwards and backwards, of abduction and adduction, of circumduction and rotation. The great freedom of movement which this joint enjoys depends on the laxity of the capsule and the large size of the head of the humerus in comparison with the depth of the glenoid cavity. The capsule is so loose that if an opening be made in it the humerus will fall about an inch from the scapula, showing that the articular surfaces are not kept in con- tact by the fibres of the capsule, but by atmospheric pressure. Bursse.—The bursae in connection with this joint are four in number : one between the subscapularis tendon and the capsule and neck of the scapula ; a second one between the capsule and the tendon nearer to the insertion of the latter; a third between the tip of the coracoid process and the capsule; and a fourth between the combined origins of the biceps and coraco-brachialis and the capsule. Nerve-supply.—Branches of the circumflex and supra-scapular nerves. 5. ELBOW-JOINT.—The elbow is a ginglymus or hinge-joint; and its ligaments four in number, namely :— Anterior, Internal lateral, Posterior, External lateral. The anterior ligament is a broad and thin membranous layer, descending from the anterior surface of the humerus immediately above the coronoid and radial fossa? to the coronoid process of the ulna and orbicular ligament. It is connected on each side with the lateral ligaments, and is composed of fibres which pass in three different directions, vertical, transverse, and oblique, the latter being extended downwards and outwards to the orbicular ligament, into which they are inserted inferiorly. This ligament is covered in by the brachialis anticus muscle.