EXTEKNAL POPLITEAL NEEVE. 595 accessorius, ■beneath which it sends several deep branches to supply the adductor hallucis, interossei, transversus pedis, and the articulations of the tarsal and metatarsal bones. It then aives branches to the integument of the outer border and sole Sf the foot, and sends forward two digital branches to supply the little toe and half the next. Comparison of the Nerves of the Sole of the Foot with those of the Palm of the Ha7id.— Tl\e cutaneous distribution of the internal plantar nerve cor- responds to that of /^^r^SJY^ the median nerve, and that of the ex- ternal plantar to the ulnar. The flexor brevis digitorum is supplied by the internal plantar and probably cor- responds to the flexor sublimis in the hand, supplied by the correspond- ing nerve, the me- dian ; the abductor hallucis and two inner lumbricales of the foot are also supplied by the same nerve, and agree in all respects with those occupy- ing the same posi- tion in the hand. The flexor acces- sorius, adductor hallucis, two outei' lumbricales, dorsal and palmar inter- ossei, transversus pedis, and muscles of the little toe are supplied by the external plantar nerve, a distribution corre- sponding very closely to that of the ulnar nerve in the hand. The flexor brevis hallucis differs from the flexor brevis pollicis in obtain- ing nerve supply for both heads from the same nerve, namely, the internal plantar. The EXTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE {peroneal nerve), one-half smaller than the internal, passes downwards by the side of the tendon of the biceps, and crosses the outer head of the gastrocnemius Fig. 344.—Second stage of dissec- tion of sole of foot. I. Internal annular liga- ment. 2. Flexor brevis digitorum (cut). 3. Ex- ternal plantar nerve. 4. Ex- ternal plantar ar- tery. 5. Internal plantar nerve. 6. Abductor mini- mi digiti. 7. In- ternal plantar artery. 8. Acces- sorius muscle. 9. Abductor hallu- cis. 10. Flexor longas digito- rum. II. Flexor longus hallucis. 12. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 13. Digital branches of iii- tern^d plantar nerve. 14. Digi- tal branches of external plantar nerve. 15. Flexor brevis hallucis. 16. One of the lumbricales. 1