CEREBRUM. 502 hemisphere in tlie longitudinal fissure ; it then runs for a short distance over the external convex surface of the cerebrum, and sepa- rates the parietal fi'oni the occipital lol)e. The extent to which tlii.s lissure may be traced in the latter direction varies greatly in different brains ; sometimes the fissure is a mere notch at the upper margin of the hemisphere, at other times it extends over a consideral^le pait of its surface. This diflerence depends on the presence and degree I >f development of the annectant convolutions. The frontal lobe (Figs. 299, 200, and 301, f) forms the antei'ior part of the brain, its under surface resting on the orlntal plate of tlu^ frontal bone ; it is separated from the parietal lol)e hy the fissure of Rolando, and from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe l)y the fissure of Sylvius. On the inner surface of the hemisphere the frontal lobe is not well defined, but is generally described as terminating at the upper limb of the calloso-marginal fissure. The frontal lobe is marked by five fissures, which are the boundaries of the convolutions oi which it is composed ; two of these called inferior and superior frontal sulci divide the greater portion of the lobe into three chief convolutions, called respectively the first, second, and tJiird, or infe- rior, middle, and suioerior frontal gyri (Fig. 299, i, 2, 3). A third fissure called precentral runs in front of and nearh'' parallel with the fissure of Rolando ; other fissures called olfactory and orbital are found on the under surface of the frontal lobe. The ascending frontal convolution (4) bounds the fissure of Rolando anteriorly, and is connected at each extremity of that fissure with the ascend- ing parietal convolution. The under surface of the frontal lobe rests upon the orbital j^late of the frontal bone, and the con- •\'olutions are consequently named orbital; there are usually three distinguishable, called from their position inner, outer, and anterior orbital. Two fissures are here seen, one of wdiich is described as the orbital or triradiate sulcus; the other lodges the olfactory tract, and hence is known as the olfactory sulcus. The sulci and convolutions of the inner aspect of the frontal lobe will be de- scribed when that surface of the hemisphere is considered as a whole (p. 503). The parietal lobe (Figs. 299, 300, and ^,01, r) is separated in front from the frontal lobe hy the fissure of Rolando, below it is bounded by the posterior portion of the fissure of Sylvius, and behind by the parieto-occipital fissure. At the lower and liack part it is united with the temporo-sphenoidal and occipital lobes l)y the annectant convolutions. It is divided by a deep sulcus, which runs downwards and backwards near its centre and is called the inter- parietal fissure, into two chief convolutions, the upper called superior and the lower inferior parietal; the latter is further divided into two parts, one running along the upper border of the posterior part of the fissure of Sylvius and called supra-marginal convolution, the other called angular gyrus forming an irregular convolution which connects the temporo-sphenoidal and parietal lobes, and winds round the posterior end of the first temporo-sphenoidal or ]iarallel