STRUCTUEE OF ARTERIES. 45 Fig. 58.— Smooth muscular fibre cells from the middle coat of the artery. i. From the popli- teal. 2. From a twig of the ante- rior tibial, h:ilf a line in diameter. a,a,a. Elongated or rod-like nuc- leus. The middle cell (marked 6) lias been ren- dered transp;i- rent by immer- sion in vinegar. an incli i8 Imt one muscular long, being the outer surface of the vessel. Longitudinal bands of unstnped muscular fibre have been desci'ibed as existing in the outer coat of many of the larger arteries, such as the splenic, renal, mesenteric, axillary, popliteal, and femoral. The middle coat {tunica media) is in all arteries the thickest and most important. It is composed of many layers of unstriped muscular fibres, mth, in the larger arteries, the addition of elastic tissue, and a small quantity of white fibrous tissue ; these structures are almost entirely arranged trans^'ersely. This coat is very brittle, and hence is easily cut through when a ligature is applied. The imdriped nms- cular tissue is almost the only component structure of the middle coat of small arteries ; in which there are two or three laminae, the fibres, about ^-^jm of an inch in diameter, ana jjj,y to arranged in rings ; in smaller arteries there lamina, the elements of the fil)res being shorter, and in proportion as the ai'teries are more minute, becoming reduced to the earliest developmental form—namely, short elliptic cells with oblong nuclei ; ultimately they are completely lost. The elastic tissue is absent altogether in the middle coat of small arteries, hut makes its appearance in arteries of medium size as fine fibi'es disposed in a network of wide meshes. In the larger kind of medium-sized arteries, the elastic network is mingled with areolar tissue, and a tendency to the alterna- tion of these tissues begins to be apparent. While thus encroaching as it were on the structure of the middle coat of arteries, the elastic tissue presents a corresponding series of transitional forms ; at first it exists as fine fibres dis])Osed singly or in a fine network with open meshes ; then the fil)res become larger and the meshes closer, and interlaced so as to form a fibrous membrane with narrow meshes ; next, l:iy the crease of breadth of their fibres and their intimate union or fusion, "-inogeneous membrane is formed, in which the meshes appear as simple ]jerforations (fenestrated membrane). In medium-sized arteries the elastic tissue forms a single laver Iving external lo the Fig. 59. brane strated middle carotid horse. — Elastic mem- of the fene- kind, from the coat of the artery of a m- a