CAPILLAEIES. 47 In taking a summary survey of the constituent tissues of the three .,its of arteries in their order of succession from without inwards, .it be seen that the external coat consists of areolar and elastic tissue ; the middle coat of smooth muscular fibre, areolar and elastic tissue ; and the internal coat of elastic tissue and endothelium. The arteries in their distribution through the body are included in a loose areolo-fibroiis investment which separates them from sur- I'ounding tissues, and is called a sheath. Around the principal vessels the sheath is an important structure ; it is composed of areolar tissue, intermingled with aponeurotic fibres, and is continuous with the fascia? of the region in which the arteries are situated, as with the thoracic and cervical fascia in the neck, transversalis and iliac fascia, (fascia lata in the thigh, &c. The sheath of the arteries contains also their accompanying veins, and sometimes a nerve. The coats of arteries are supplied with blood like other oi'gans of the Ijody ; their vessels proceed from the neighbouring small branches, and are named vasa vasorum. The vasa vasorum or vasa nutritia are distributed in the external coat, some few making their way among the external layers of the middle coat. They are met with even on the smallest arteries, and form a rich capillary network with rounded meshes. The small A^eins which return the blood from the capillaries, open into the companion veins of the artery. The nerves, like the A^asa vasorum, are found only in the external coat, and are wanting altogether in many arteries, as in those of the I cerebral and spinal substance, the choroid membrane of the OA'um, : the placenta, and also in the arteries of some muscles, glands, and f membranes. Lymphatic vessels and lymph spaces are present in the outer coat. CAPILLARIES. The arteries do not terminate directly in veins, but in an inter- mediate system of vessels which, from their minute size (about ^^^^ of an inch in diameter), are termed capillaries {capillus, a hair). The capillaries constitute a microscopic netAvork, Avhich is distributed through nearly every part of the body, so as to render it impossible to introduce the smallest needle-point beneath the skin Avithoiit Avounding several of these fine vessels. It is through the medium of the capillaries that all tlie phenomena of nutrition and secretion are performed. They are remarkable for their uniformity of diameter and for the constant divisions and communications Avhieh take jDlace betAveen them, Avithout any alteration of size. They communicate on the one hand Avith the terminal branches of the arteries and on the other Avith the minute radicles of the veins. In the maternal part of the placenta and in the erectile oi'gans (as the corjDus caver- nosum penis), the arteries empty into lacunar spaces, from Avhich the veins gather up the blood, Avithout the intei'vention of capillaries ; aud an ai'i-ingement some.Avhat similar is also found in the spleen.' Suc(piet and Hoyev assert that in some parts the small artei-ies pass