DIAPHKAGM. 299 DIAPHRAGM.—To obtain a good view of tliis important inspiratory mnscle, the peritoneum should be dissected from its under surface. It is a transverse muscular septum between the thorax and abdomen, and is composed of two portions, thoracic and lumbar. The thoracic portion arises from the ensiform cartilage by a distinct slip and from the internal surface of the six inferior ribs, interdigitatmg with the transversalis. The fibres converge to be inserted into the central tendon. A triangular interval exists between the sternal and costal portion of the muscle at each side, closed by a few irregular muscular fibres, some connective tissue, and by the serous membranes of the cavity of the chest and abdomen. A protrusion of any portion of the contents Fig. 211. The dia- phragm viewed from the front, showing its upper or thor.acic surface, i, i. The lateral segments of the thoracic portion; arising from 2, 2, The cartilages of tlie ribs; and inserted into 3, The central tendon. The right segment is seen to be higher than the left. 4. The fasci- culus which arises from the ensiform cartilage. 5, 5. La- tei'al leaflets of the central tendon. 6. Opening for the in- ferior vena cava. 7. The oj-iopliagus, 8. The thoracic aorta. g. The abdominal aorta. 10. The tendon oCthe right crus of the diaphragm : that of the left is seen immediately above on the lumbar vertebras. 11, 11. The psoas muscles. of the abdomen through this opening constitutes phrenic or dia- jihragmatic hernia. The lumbar portion consists of a right and left lateral half (crura) ; each of which is composed of three smaller pillars, inter- nal, middle, and external. The crura arise from tlie front and lateral aspect of the bodies of the first, second, and third lumbar vertebrae, from the intervertebral substance between the first, second, third, and fourth, from the transverse process of the first, ligainentum arcuatum internum and externum, and last rib. The left crus is shorter than the right by the breadth of a A'ertebra, and does not advance so far for^^ard on the front of the vertebral column. The crura are inserted into the whole length of the jDosterior border of the central tendon. The origin of the crura takes ])lace by a strong tendon, from whicli and from the other points of attachnient muscular fibres proceed. The internal pillar of the crus is its anterior fasciculus, which pro-