FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM. 329 Dissection.—Cut the flexor carpi raclialis and palmaris longus from their origin, in order to obtain a good view of the whole extent of origin of the flexor sublimis digitorum. The FLEXOR SUBLIMIS DIGITORUM (perforatus) arises from the inner condyle, intermuscular septa, internal lateral ligament, coro- noid process of the ulna, and oblique line of the radius. The median nerve and ulnar artery pass between its heads. It divides into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular ligament, and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanges of the fingers about their middle, splitting at their termination to give passage to the tendons of tlie deep flexor ; hence its designation, perforahis. The tendons pass beneath the annular ligament ai'ranged in pairs, those for tlie middle and ring fingers being placed superficially, and those for the index and little fingers beneath them. At the liases of the first pha- langes the flexor tendons enter small canals whicli are in part formed Ijy the grooved surfaces of the bones, and in part by fibrous arches thrown across the tendons ; these are called thecce (di^Ka, a case). In Fio. 227.—Bones of two fingers with the insertion of the tendons. In A the tendons of tlie flexor muscles are bound to the bone by the fibrous sheath. In B the sheath has been removed, as well as the vincula accessoria. i. Metacarpal bone. 2. Ten- don of the flexor sublimis. 3. Tendon of the flexor profundus. * Perforation of the subhmis by the profundus tendon. 4. Tendon of the extensor communis digi- torum. 5. Lumbrioalis muscle. 6. One of the interossei muscles. the thecse of the fingers several small tendinous fasciculi are found, which pass from the phalanges to the edges of the tendons ; these have been termed the vincula accessoria. One of these connects the deep tendon v.-ith the bone before it pierces the superficial tendon ; another connects tlie superficial and deep tendon after the latter has passed through the former; and a third connects the deep tendon with the head of the second phalanx. This last consists largely of elastic tissue, and may assist in reinstating the tendon after flexion of the finger. . Relations.—In the forearm : by its anterior surface with tlie pronator radii teres, flexor carpi radialis, palmaris longus, flexor carpi ulnans, and the deep fascia. By its posterior surface with the