457 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. fifth, and sixth nerve. The third, fourth, and ophthalmic nerves lie in the outer wall of the sinus, just beneath the dura mater ; the in- ternal carotid artery also lies oil the outer wall of the sinus, but pro- jects into its lumen. The sixth nerve winds roimd the outer side of the carotid artery, and is continued forwards on the floor of the sinus; the nerve and artery are separated from the cavity of the latter by its lining membrane only. As the nerves approach the sphenoidal fissure they change their position, so that at that opening the fourth nerve is highest, next, the frontal and lachrymal branches of the ophthal- Sphenoidal Fissui-e. Cavernous Sinus. 4th nerve Frontal of sth ... Lachrymal of 5th Supr. div. of 3rd . Nasal of 5th ." Infer, div. of 3rd ^ 6th nerve Gasseriau Ganglion. Fig. 278.—Diagram of the nerves passing through the cavernous sinus. mic, then the upper division of the third, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, the lower division of the third, and the sixth nerves, in the order here given. Besides the ophthalmic vein the cavernous sinus receives the cerebral veins of the under part of the anterior lobe, a vein from the posterior border of the orbit and the vein of the middle fossa of the cranium. The cavernous sinuses communi- cate by means of the ojjhthalmic with the facial veins, by the circular sinus with each other, and by the superior petrosal with the lateral sinuses. The inferior petrosal sinuses are the continuations of the caver- nous sinuses backwards. They run in the shallow groove formed by the lower border of the petrous jjortion of the temporal bone and the basilar portion of the occipital at each side of the base of the skull, to the jugular foramina, where they terminate with the lateral sinuses in the commencement of the internal jugular veins. The superior petrosal sinuses pass obliquely backwards along the attached border of the tentorium, on the upper margin of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, and establish a communication between the cavernous and lateral sinus at each side. They are of very small size, and receive one or two cerebral veins from the inferior part of the middle lobes, and a cerebellar vein from the anterior border of the cerebellum. Near the extremity of the petrous bone these sinuses cross the oval aperture which transmits the fifth nerve (Meckel's s-pace).