ORGAN OF COETI. 649 called the membrane of Reissner, which separates it from the scala vestibuli. Its floor is formed by a membrane, which is stretched across from the lower edge of the osseous lamina spiralis to the cochlear wall, and is called the membrana basilaris. The scala media accompanies the lamina spiralis throughout, and terminates superiorly in a cul-de-sac near the helicotrema ; below, it also ends in a blind extremity, but from its inner side a small canal (canalis reuniens) passes to join the saccule, as already mentioned. On the upper * surface of the osseous lamina sj)iralis, near to its , outer edge, there is a thick prominence, called limbus lamina spir- alis, which is firmly connected with the periosteum of the lamina. Its surface is irregular, being marked by certain fungiform promi- nences ; these are not all of the same length, the internal ones being short, while the external are long, and hang over towards the basilar memiorane, so as to form a groove beneath them, which is called the sulcus spiralis. Covering in the limbus, and stretching across from its outer edge to the outer wall of the scala, is an elastic membrane called membrana tedoria (membrane of Corti). It is nearly parallel with the basilar membrane, and thus divides the scala media into two parts, the inferior of which is the smallest, and contains the organ of Corti. The basilar membrane is stretched across from the free edge of the osseous lamina to the outer wall of the spiral canal; it is on the same plane as the lamina itself, and is firmly attached at its outer extremity by means of a thick ligament (spiral ligament) to the cochlear wall. The membrane of Reissner arises from the base of the limbus (or on its inner side), and extends across to the upper and outer part of the cochlear wall. It is directed somewhat obliquely, and sepa- rates the scala vestibuli from the scala media. It is composed of very delicate connective tissue, covered on the vestibular side by an epithelioid layer of flattened connective tissue corpuscles, and on the side towards the scala media by simple pavement epithelium. The organ of Corti consists of those structures which are contained between the membrana tectoria above and the basilar membrane below. Its central and most important part is formed of rod-like bodies, which are fixed firmly below to the basilar membrane, but above, their enlarged ends meet together like the beams of a roof, so as to enclose a triangular space. The inner rods overlap the outer, and the latter have a process bent back towards the outer side of the canal. On each side of these central bodies are others which apijear to recline on the larger ones just described ; they consist of an inner and an outer set. The inner cells (inner hair cells) form a single layer, each cell terminating in fine, stiff", hair-like processes. Those on the outer * Fov convenience of description we speaic as if the base of the cochlea was directed downwards and its apex upwards ; it must, however, be kept in mind thnt this is not their position when in situ. In like manner, it is convenient to siieak of the wall nearest the modiolus as inner, and that at the peripliery of the cochlea as outer.