LARGE INTESTINE. 738 termination tlie rectum undei'goes coiisideraljle enlargement, aiul bulges forwards, so as to give tlie anus tlie appearance of Ijeiug bent backwards ; tliis dilatation is called the sinus analis. The anus is situated at a little more than an inch in front of the extremity of the coccyx. The integument around it is covered with hairs, and is thrown into numerous radiated folds, which are obliterated during the passage of fa)ces. The anal passage or canal is described by Symington as connecting the anal aperture with the rectum ; it is from half an inch to an inch in length, and when closed has its lateral walls in contact with each other, so that the lumen has the form of a median slit. The margin of the anus is providefl with an abundance of sebaceous glands, and the epidermis may be seen terminating by a fringed and scalloped border, at a few lines above the extremity of the opening. Structure of the Large Intestine. The large bowel has the same coats as the small, namely, seroua, muscular, submucous and mucous. SEROUS COAT.—The peritoneum forms the serous coat; its arrangement in relation to the several parts of the colon has been described on a jn'evious page (p. 702). MUSCULAR COAT.—'I'his consists, as in the small intestine, of longitudinal and circular fibres. The longitudinal fibres commence at the appendix vermiformis, and are collected into three bands- anterior, broad ; and two narrower bands, one placed po.steriorly and the other laterally. The anterior band corresponds in the transverse colon to the line of attachment of the great omentum ; the posterior band is at the attached border of the colon ; and the lateral one lies on the inner aspect of the ascending and descending colon, and under surface of the transverse colon. These bands, the ligamenta coli, are nearly one-half shorter than the intestine, and serve to maintain the sacculated structure of the caecum and colon. In the descending colon the posterior bands usually unite and form a single band. In addition to these bands, the longitudinal fibres are also sparsely distributed over the surface of the sacculi. In the lower part of the' sigmoid flexure, the muscular fibres of the longitudinal bands begin to spread out, and in the rectum the fibres are regularly distributed throughout the entire calibre of the howel. The circular fibres are distributed over the whole surface of the colon, but are thickest in the sulci between the sacculi. In the caecum and colon they are very thin ; in the rectum they are thicker, and near its lower extremity are aggregated into the thick muscular band which is known as the internal sphincter ani. SUBMUCOUS COAT,—This coat in all respects corresponds to that in the small intestine. MUCOUS COAT.—In the caecum and colon the mucous membrane is smooth, and lines the surfaces of the folds which form the boundaries