HAM-STRTNG MUSCLES. 362 origin upper part ol' tlie inner side of tlie tibia, nearly as fai' forwarda as the crest, immediately below the insertion of the tendon of the gra- cilis, and sends an expansion to the fascia of the leg. Relations.—By its siqjerjicial surface with the gluteus maximus, fascia lata, and at its insertion with the synovial bursa which sepa- rates its tendon from the expansion of the sartorius. By its deep surface with the semi-membi'anosus, adductor magnus, internal head of ihe gastrocnemius, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint, the synovial bursa common to it and the tendon of the gracilis being interposed. By its inner border with the gracilis ; by its outer border with the biceps. Nerve - supply.—Great sciatic nerve. These two muscles must be dissected from the tube- rosity of the ischium, to bring into view the of the next. The SEMI - MEMBRANO- SUS, remarkable for the ten- dinous expansion upon its an- terior and posterior surface, arises from the ujjper and outer facet on the tuberosity of the ischium, external to the common origin of the two preceding muscles. It is in- serted into the posterior part of the inner tuberosity of the tibia; at its insertion the tendon splits into three portions, one of which is in- serted in a groove on the inner side of the head of the tibia, beneath the inter- nal lateral ligament. The second is continuous Avith an aponeurotic expansion that binds down the popliteus muscle, the pojditeal fascia; and the third turns upwards and outwards to the external condyle of the femur, forming the middle portion of the posterior ligament of the knee-joint (ligamentum posticum Winslowii). The tendons of the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, gracilis, and sartorius form the inner hamstring. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the gluteus maximus, biceps, semi-tendinosus, fascia lata, and at its insertion, the tendi- PiQ. 240. — Mus- cles of the pos- teiior femoral and gluteal re- gion, I. Glu- teus medius. 2. Gluteus maxi- mus. 3. Vastus externus cover- ed in by fascia lata. 4. Long head of biceps. 5. Short head. 6. Semi-tendi- nosus. 7, 7. Semi -membra- nosus. 8. Gra- cilis. 9. Part of the inner border of the adductor magnus. 10. Edge of sarto- rius. II. Popli- teal space. 12. Gastrocne- mius ; its two heads. The ten- don of the bi- ceps forms the outer ham - string, the sar- torius with the tendons of the gracilis, semi- tendinosus and semi - membra- nosus, theinner hamstring.