SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY. 405 scapula, and then descends along the posterior border of that bone to its inferior angle, where it inosculates with the subscapular artery. In its course it lies under cover of the levator anguli scapulae and rhomboidei muscles, distributes branches to them and neighbouring muscles, and inosculates with the arteries of the scapula and branches of the intercostal arteries. The superficial cervical and posterior scapular artery sometimes arise separately, the former from the thyroid axis, the latter from the third portion of the subclavian. By means of its numerous inosculations the transversalis colli artery maintains an important anastomotic communication between the branches of the external carotid, subclavian, and axillary arteries. The SUPERIOR INTERCOSTAL ARTERY arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery behind the scalenus anticus, and, descending in front of the necks of the first two ribs, sends intercostal branches to the first two intercostal spaces, and dorsal branches to the muscles and integument of the back. The artery lies behind the pleura, to the outer side of the sympathetic nerve, and in the second intercostal space inosculates with the first aortic intercostal. It gives off the deejj cervical artery. The deep cervical (cervicalis profunda) artery arises l)y a common trunk with the preceding, or, more properly, is a branch of the superior intercostal, corresponding with the posterior branch of the other intercostal arteries. It jjasses backwards between the transverse processes of the seventh cer\T.cal and first dorsal vertebra, and ascends the back pai't of the neck, between the complexus and semispinalis colli muscle. It inosculates with the princeps cervicis of the occipital artery, and with branches of the vertebi'al. Varieties of the Subclavian Arteries.—Varieties in these arteries are rare ; that which most frequently occurs is the origin of the right subclavian from the left extremity of the arch of the aorta, below the left siibclavian artery. The vessel, in this case, curves behind the a'sophagus and right carotid artery, and some- times between the oesophagus and trachea, to the upper border of the first rib on the right side of the chest, where it assumes its ordinary course. Occasionally the left carotid and subclavian arise by a common trunk, as well as those on the right, so that there are two innominate arteries, and in rare cases the four branches all arise separately from the aorta, the right subclavian, however, retaining its normal position. Varieties in the branches of the subclavian are not unfrequent; the most interesting is the origin of the left ver- tebral from the arch of the aorta. AXILLARY ARTERY. The axillary artery passes outwards and downwards with a gentle curve through the axillary space from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, where it Ijecomes the brachial. For convenience of