BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 574 reddish colour aud is spread out and flattened ; it divides into six branches, one muscular and five digital. The muscular branch is disti-il)uted to the alxluctoi- pollicin, flexor ossis nietacarpi pollicis, and ivadial half of the flexor bj'evis pollicis. The digital branches are arranged as follows : two pass outwards to the tiuuub and supply its borders; tlie third runs along the radial side of the index finger, sending a twig to the first lumln i- calis in its course ; the fourth subdivides for the supply of tlie adjacent sides of the index and middle finger, and gives a twig to the second lumbricalis ; the fifth receives a filament of communica- tion from the ulnar nerve, and supijlies the collateral branches of the middle and ring fingers. Oj)posite the base of the first phalanx, each nerve gives off a dorsal branch which runs along the border of the dorsum of the finger. Near its extremity the nerve divides into a falmar and a dorsal branch ; the former supplying the sentient extremity of the finger, the latter the structures around and beneath the nail. Tlie digital nerves in their course along the fingers lie to the inner side of and superficially to the arteries ; and the nerve of one side of a finger has no communication with that of the opposite side. It will be obsei'ved that the median nerve supplies all the muscles of the front of the forearm except the flexor carpi ulnaris and half the flexor j^rofundus digitorum. In the liand it gives branches to those muscles of the thumb wliich lie to the radial side of tlift tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, and the two outer lumbricales ; the latter muscles are supplied by this nerve because they are con- nected with the tendons of that portion of the flexor profundus which derives its nerve supply from the median. The digital branches are distributed to the palmar aspect of the thumb, index, middle, and half the ring fingers. The ULNAR NERVE is somewhat smaller than the median, behind which it lies, gradually diverging from it in its course. It arises from the inner cord of tlie brachial plexus in common with the internal head of the median and internal cutaneous nerve, and runs down the inner side of the arm, piercing tlie internal intermuscular septum from before backwards, to the groove between the internal condyle and olecranon, resting on the internal head of the tricei)_s, and accompanied by the inferior profiinda artery. At the elbow it is superficial, and supported by the inner condyle, against wliich it may be compressed, giving rise to the thrilling sensation along the inner side of the forearm and little finger, popularly ascribed to striking the " funny bone." It then passes between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and descends along the inner side of the forearm, crosses the annular ligament with the ulnar artery, and divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. At the. commencement of the middle third of the forearm it comes into relation with the artery, and lies to the ulnar side of that vessel, as far as the hand.