4 BLOOD. again diverging, radiate into the lorotoplasin of the cell. The achromatic spindle appears first at the end of the nnclens towards which the filaments of chromoplasm are directed (iMlar end), hut from thence it moves and takes up a position in the middle of the nuclens. (3.) The chromatic filaments become shorter and thicker, and are disposed in V-shaped loops radiating fi'om the centre of the achromatic spindle {aster stage, Fig. 4, e.f.) ; the filaments next split in their length into two very fine threads. (4.) The threads of the split chromosomes separate, and the two derived from each primary filament pass along the achromatic fibrils in opposite directions towards the poles of the spindle. As they approach the pole they have a radiate appearance (like a rosette) at each end of the nncleus, and this stage has hence been called the diaster stage (Fig. 4, h.). (5.) As soon as the chromosomes separate in this manner into two groups, one at each pole of the nucleus, the cell protoplasm commences to divide, and thus two cells are formed, which, however, remain for some time intimately connected. (6.) The chromatic filaments in the nucleus of each daughter-cell give off branches ; these become convoluted, and form by their inter-communications the intermiclear network of the resting nucleus. Protoplasm iindergoes a change at its surface, esjiecially in old cells, being converted into a harder layer constituting the cell-wall ; such cells lose their power of amseboid movement, and, uniting with other cells, form tissues. Cells are connected Avith each other either by means of their processes (as aljove mentioned), by direct union of their walls, or by an intercellular substance. BLOOD. Blood is a rather thick fluid, of a bright red or scarlet colour in the arteries, and of dark purjile tint in the veins. It has a salt taste, a slight alkaline reaction, a peculiar faint odour, and a sjiecific gravity of 1055. It consists of a colourless, transparent fluid, the liquor sanguinis, and of small solid particles, called corpuscles, floating in the fluid. When drawn from the body, it speedily solidifies or coagulates into a jelly-like substance, called a clot, which as it contracts squeezes out a small quantity of transparent, straw-coloured fluid knoAvn as serum. In the process of coagulation a substance called fibrin is formed, which entangles the corpuscles in its meshes, so that the clot is formed of fibrin and corpuscles, and is of red colour. The I'elation between the constituents of blood in the liquid and coagulated states is shown in the following scheme :— (Corpuscles ....") I J-Clot Liquid blood/ /'Fibrin j ' Liquor sanguinis/ V Serum . . Coagulated blood.