LINGUAL NERVE. 547 enter the dental foramen ; it then pierces the insertion of the in- ternal lateral ligament, and descends along a groove in the bone to the inferior snrface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, to which, and to the anterior belly of the digastricus, it furnishes the motor sujjply. The incisive branch is continued forward to the symphysis of the jaw, to supply the incisor teeth. The mental or labial branch emerges from the jaw at the mental foramen, beneath the depressor anguli oris, and divides into branches Avhich supply the muscles (sensory supply) and integument of the loM'er lip and cliin, and communicate with the facial nerve. The LINGUAL NERVE (gustatory) descends between the two ptery- goid muscles, and makes a gentle curve forwards to the side of the tongue, along which it takes its course to the tip. On the side of the tongue it is flattened, and gives off numerous branches, which are distributed to the mucous membrane and j)apilla3. In the upper part of its course the lingual nerve lies between the external pterygoid muscle and the pharynx, next between the two pterygoid muscles, then between the internal pterygoid and ramus of the jaw, crosses the ujij^er border of the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and runs between the stylo-glossus muscle and the submaxillary gland ; lastly, it runs along the side of the tongue, resting against the hyo-glossus muscle and crossing the duct of the submaxillar}'- gland, and lies between the mylo-hyoid muscle and the miicous membrane of the floor of the mouth. The lingual nerve, while between the pterygoid muscles, often receives a communicating bi'anch from the inferior dental; lower down it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tymj)ani, a small nerve, which, arising from the facial in the aqueductus Fallopii, crosses the tympanum, and escapes from that cavity through the canal of Huguier at the inner end of the fissure of Glaser. Having joined the lingual nerve, the chorda tympani is continued down- wards in its sheath to the submaxillary ganglion and tongue. One or two branches are given by the lingual nerve to the submaxillary ganglion. On the hyo-giossus muscle several branches of communication join with branches of the hypoglossal nerve, and others are sent to the sublingual gland, Wharton's duct, and mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. SIXTH PAIR.-ABDUCENTES. The abducens nerve, about half the size of the motor oculi, arises by several filaments from the groove between the anterior pyramid and the pons Varolii. Proceeding forwards from this origin, it lies parallel with the basilar artery, and, piercing the dura mater low down on the side of the basilar process of the sphenoid bone, ascends between the two layers of that membrane to the cavernous sinus. It then runs forward on the outer wall of the sinus, below ■.he level of the other nerves and resting against the internal carotid irtery, to the sphenoidal fissure. Entering the orbit through the