FLEXOR MUSCLES OF FOREARM. 328 radial artery and veins, and radial nei-ve. By its fonterior surface with the Lrachialis anticus, Hexor sublimis digitorum, ulnar artery and veins, and the median nerve after it has passed between the two heads of the muscle. By its upper border it forms the inner boundary of the triangular space, in which the termination of the brachial artery is situated. By its lower border it is in relation with the flexor carpi radialis. Nerve-supply.—Median nerve. The^FLEXOR CARPI RADIALIS arises from the inner condyle, deep fascia, and intermuscular septa. Its tendon perforates the anterior anmdar ligament, and passes through a groove in the trapezium Ijone, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bones of the index and middle fingers. The groove is converted into a canal by a fibrous band, and is lined by a synovial membrane. Relations.— By its an- terior surface with the deep fascia of the forearm, and at the wrist with the ten- dinous canal through which its tendon passes. By its posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digitorum, flexor longus pollicis, wrist- joint, and groove in the trapezium l)one. By its outer border with the pronator radii teres, radial artery and veins. By its inner border with the pal maris longus. Nerve-supply.—Median nerve. , . „ The PALMARIS LONGUS is a small muscle which arucs from the inner condyle, deep fascia, and intermuscular septa. Its tendon inerces the deep fascia and crosses the annular ligament to be inserted into the palmar fascia. This muscle is often absent. •Relations —By its anterior surface with the deep fascia ot tlie ioreavm By the posterior surface with the flexor sublimis digi o- rum ; to the external side with the flexor carpi radialis ; and to llR internal side with the Hexor carpi ulnaris. Nerve-supply—Median nerve. Fig. 226. — Super- ficial layer of muscles of the forearm. i. Bi- ceps, with its ten- don. 2. Braohialls anticus, seen be- neath i)iceps. 3. Part of triceps. 4. Pronator i-adii teres. 5. Flexor carpi radialis. 6. Palmaris longus. 7. One of the fasci- culi of the flexor sublimis digito- rum ; the rest of the muscle is seen beneath the ten- dons of the pal- maris longus and flexor carpi radia- lis. 8. Flexor carpi ulnaris. 9. Pal- mar fascia. 10. Palmaris brevis. II. Abductor pol- licis. 12. Flexor brevis pollicis; the leading line crosses part of the adductor pollicis. 13. Supinator lon- gus. 14. Extensor ossis metacarpl and extensor primi internodii pollicis, curving around the lower border of the forearm.