fascitE of the leg. 347 differently arranged ; tlie posterior superficial slieath terminates on the OS calcis with the tendo-Achillis ; the posterior deep sheath is attached at one side to the border of the internal malleolus, at the other to the os calcis and inner side of the foot, being blended with the origin of the abductor pollicis. This portion of the deep fascia is the internal annular ligament; it sends processes inwards to separate the tendons of the ilexors and forms sheaths for their passage into the foot. The sheath of the peronei muscles at the outer ankle is attached to the external malleolus on one side, and the border of the OS calcis on the other, and forms the external annular liga- ment. The anterior portion of the fascia forms at the ankle the anterior annular ligament; it is divisible into two parts, the upper being transversely disposed, the lower arranged in the form of the letter placed on its side. The latter is often described as a >i']iarate ligament under the name of cruciform ligament; it is com- ]M>sed of two bands about half-an-inch in width, blended with each 'olher at their point of union on the front of the joint. The internal liand is attached above to the internal malleolus and below to the I >s calcis at the outer side of the foot; the external band to the 1 xternal malleolus above, and the scaphoid and internal cuneiform ! hone at the inner border of the foot. The internal band at its origin consists of two layers, between which passes the tendon of the til)ialis anticiis. The tendons of the extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertiiis have also a separate loop connected with the cruci- form ligament, the sling ligciment of Eetzius ; this is a narrow band which embraces the tendons in a sling-shaped loop, and passes out- wards and backwards to be attached to the sulcus tali and neighbour- ing part of the calcaneum. The tendons passing through the loops and sheaths around the ankle are each furnished with a synovial ljursa. That portion of the deep fascia of the leg which forms a septum between the superficial and deep muscles of the back of the leg is sometimes called the intermiisciUar fascia ; and in operations on the arteries of that region the deep layer of the deep fascia. There is besides another deep portion of fascia above the preceding, the I popliteal fascia, derived from the tendon of the semi-membranosus i muscle and bhiding down the popliteus muscle. By its inferior border this fascia is inserted into tlie soleal ridge of the tibia. I The fascise dorsales pedis are tliree in number, superficial, middle, and deep. The superficial layer of deep fascia of the foot is thin and covers tlie dorsum of the foot, being continuous at the ankle with the cruciform ligament, and attached at either side to the borders of the foot, where it becomes united with the plantar fascia. A second or middle layer of fascia covei's in the anterior part of the extensor b^e^'ls digitorum with its tendons ; and a third or deep layer is found l)eneath the latter, and covering in the interossei muscles. On the interossei muscles the tliree layers are united, and the ex- tensoi- tendons are consequently separated from each other in their course to the toes.