MEDULLA OBLONGATA. 493 known as the posterior pyramid or funiculus gracilis. The upper extremity is enlarged and somewhat club-shaped, and hence is called the clava. ^^-^^^ what wedge- « " I"'» .shaped ; tliis column is called the funiculus cuneatus, and its upper enlarged end is termed the cuneate tubercle. It is the upward extension of the j)ostero-external column of the cord, or column of Burdach, and its tubercle contains a grey nucleus {nucleus cuneaUis) in which many of the fibres of the column seem to terminate. Still farther out is a longitudinal prominence, which, becoming broader as it ascends, forms a definite eminence, the tubercle of Rolando, the ridge itself being called the funiculus of Rolando. This strand is not continuous with the white matter of the cord ; it consists mainly of a mass of grey matter (nucleus of Rolando), which is the representative in the medulla of the caput cornu, posterioris of the cord. Between the funiculus of Rolando and the olive we notice the external arciforvi fibres above described ; they are reinforced by a band of fibres derived from the lateral column of the cord and forming the direct cerebellar tract. These strands unite to form the restiform tract, which, crossing the upper part of the funiculus of Rolando and funiculus cuneatus, in part blends with those tracts, and is thence continued upwards to the crus cerebelli, so as to form the inferior peduncle of the cerebellum {processus ad meclullam). Internal Structure of the Medulla Oblongata.—The internal •structure is best demonstrated by cross-sections made at difterent levels ; in such specimens the medulla is seen to be composed of The posterior py- ramid forms the lateral boundary of the lower end of the fourth ven- tricle ; the fibres contained in it and derived from the posterior median column of the cord appear to be con- nected with a grey nucleus in the clava {nucleus clavatus). External to the funiculus gracilis is a less-defined strand, which as it ascends also widens out, so as to become some- 3 Fig. 294.—Medulla and pons from behind. f.g. Funiculus gra- cilis, cl. Pro- cessus clavatus. j.c. Funiculus cuneatus. c.t. Cuneate tuber- cle. B. Funi- culus of Rolan'- do. f.i. Inferior fovea, f.s. Supe- rior fovea, j'.t. Fasciculus teres. a.st. Auditory strife, r.b. Res- tiform body, s.p. Superior pe- duncle of cere- bellum, m.p. Middle pedun- cle, i.p. Inferior peduncle. /. Oli- vary fillet.