BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY, 404 The tracheal and oesophageal branches ramify on the trachea and u},soph!igus. The ascending cervical, a branch of the inferior thyroid, ascends upon the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes of the cervical verteljra3, lying in the groove between the scalenus anticus and rectus anticus major. It is distributed to the deep muscles and glands of the necli, and sends branches through the intervertel)ral foi'amina to supply the s])inal cord and its membranes. The glandular branches pass to the thyroid Ijody and anastomose with the bi'anches of the superior thyroid artery. The muscular branches supply the scalenus anticus, longus colli, and depressor muscles of the hyoid bone. The SUPRA-SCAPULAR or TRANSVERSALIS HUMERI ARTERY passes oblitpiely outwards behind the clavicle, and over the ligament of the supra-scapular notch, to tlie supra-spinous fossa. It crosses in its course the scalenus anticus mus- cle, phrenic nerve, and subclavian artery ; is distributed to the mus- cles of the dorsum of the scajiula, and inosculates with the posterior scapular, and beneath the acromion process with the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. At the supra-scapular notch it sends a large branch outwards, which pierces the trapezius muscle, and become? cutaneous at the tip of the shoulder (acromial). It gives a number of small branches to the capsule of the shoulder-joint. The supra- scapular artery sometimes arises directly from the subclavian. The' TRANSVERSALIS COLLI ARTERY passes transversely across the subclavian triangle at the root of the neck, to the anterior border of the levator anguli scapulae, where it divides into two terminal branches, the superficial cervical and posterior scapular. In its course it lies above the supra-scapular artery, and crosses the scaleni nniscles and brachial plexus of nerves, often passing between the latter, i'ts bifurcation it is covered in by the edge of the trapezius. The superficial cervical artery, its ascending branch, passe lip wards under cover of the anterior border of the trapezius, and is distributed to the superficial muscles of the neck and deep cervical glands. The posterior scapular artery, the proper contniuation of t le transversalis colli, passes backwards to the superior angle of the Fig. 256.—View of the branches of the right subclavian artery. 1. Innomi- nate artery. 2. Common carotid. 3. Subclavian. 4. Internal mammary. 5. Vertebral. 6. Thyroid axis. 7. Infei-ior tliyroid. 8. Ascending cer- vical. 9. Transversalis colli. 10. Supra-scapular. 11. Common trunk dividing into superior intercostal and deep cervical.