CERVICAL vertebra:. 76 tlie six upper A ('i lel)ra! ; tlie vein more frequently passes tlirongh the foramina of all seven. The transveise processes in this I'egion ai-e formed by two small developments, which proceed, the one from the side of the l)ody, the other from the pedicle, and unite near tlieir extremities to enclose the circular area of tlie verteljral foramen. The anterior of these processes is the rudiment of a cervical rib ; the jiosterior, the homologue of the transverse processes in the dorsal region. The extremities of these developments are the anterior and Fig. 83.—A middle cervical vertebr.-i, kc-iu upon its upper surface, x. The body, con- cave in the middle, and rising on eucli side into a sharp lidgc. 2. The laniiii.i. 3. The pedicle, rendered concave by tlie superior intervertebral notch. 4. The bifid spuious process. 5. The bifid transverse jirocess. The number is placed in the concavity between the anterior and pos- terior tubercle. 6. The vertebral foramen. 7. The superior articular process, looking backwards and upwards. 8, The inferior articular process. •posterior tubercle of the transverse process.* The articular processes are oblique ; the superior looking u]nvards, l)ackwards, and a little inwards ; the inferior downwards, forwards, and a little outwards. There are three peculiar vertebrae in the cerAdcal region:—Tlu' first, or atlas ; the second, or axis ; and the se"s^enth, or vertebr;; prominens. The Atlas (named from supporting the head) is a simple ring of Fio. 84.—The upper surface of the atlas. I. Tlie anterior tubercle pro] ecting from the anterior arch. 2. The .articular s>n-face for the odontoid process on the posterior .surface of the anterior arch. 3. The posterior ai'ch, with its nidi- men tary spinous process. 4. The intervertebral notch. 5. The transverse process. 6. The verte- bral foramen. 7. Superior articu- lar siuface. 8. Tubercle for the attachment of the transverse liga- ment. bone, without body, and composed of arches and processes. The anterior arch is the shortest; it has a tubercle on its anterior surface, for the attachment of the longus colli muscle ; and on its i)Osterior aspect a smooth surface, for articulation with the odontoid process of the axis. The posterior arch is longer and more slender than the anterior, and flattened from above downwards ; at its middle is a rudimentary * The anterior tubercle of the sixth cervical vertebra is more prominent than the rest; it has been named the carotid tubercle, from its close relation to the common carotid artery, and Cha.fsaignac's tubercle, from the autlior who first pointed out this relation. I