17 CARTILAGE. times they are round, as in the rete nuicosum of skm, or are, again, stellate in shape, as in the lamina fusca of the choroid. The stellate pigment cells of the skin of the frog have been observed to change their shape under various forms of irritation. Flo. 26.—Pigmentary connective tissue corpuscles (so-called stellate pigment cells), from the lamina fusca of the eye. Fig. 27. — Pigmentary layer of the retina, i. The cells as seen from the surface. 2. The same viewed edgeways. 3. The fine pigment which fills the cells. chemical, electrical, and mechanical, these processes becoming shorter and less numerous, and at length being retracted into the body of the cell, which thus becomes spheroidal. CARTILAGE. Cartilage or gristle is a firm but easily cut, elastic, bluish-white substance, which coats the articular ends of long 1)ones, joins the ribs to the sternum, forms grooves for the passage of tendons, and in the embryo and young child occupies the place of bone, and is the substance from Avhich most of that tissue is formed. Tliree forms of cartilage are usually distinguished—hyaline, white fibro-cartilage, and yellow or elastic fibro-cartilage. Hyaline Cartilage is composed of a semi-transparent homogeneous substance called the matrix, containing a number of cells dispersed at short intervals through its structure. The cells may be evenly distributed throughout the matrix, as is the case in fcctal carti- lage, or may be gathered into grou])s, the members of which by their mutual pressure become changed in shape, and from being round or oval, as the single cells are, become flattened on one or two of their sides where they are in contact with their fellows. The cells have an average measurement of about foVu 3,n inch ; they lie in the matrix in cell spaces which are bounded by a capsule, but this is often indistinguishable in young cartilages. Some observers state that the matrix is permeated by numerous very line channels, which also pierce the capsules of the cartilage cells, and thus the cavities in which the cells lie communicate with n