EXTENSOR MUSCLES OF THE LEG. 364 Nerve-supply—Anterior tiliial nerve. Tlie EXTENSOR LONGUS DIGITOEUM (extensor communis longus) arises from the outer tuberosity of the tiljia, the head and upper three-fourths of the fibula, the interosseous membrane, intermuscular fascia, and deep fascia. Near the ankle it divides into four tendons, which pass beneath the annular' ligament through a proper tendinous pulley (the sling ligament of Retzius), to be inserted into the second and third phalanges of the four lesser toes. The mode of insertion of the extensor tendons is remarkable; each ten- don spreads into a broad aponeurosis over the base of tlie first pha- lanx ; this ajioneurosis is strengthened on its borders by the tendons of the extensor brevis digitorum, lumbricales and interossei, and di- vides into three slips ; the middle slip is in- serted into the base of the second jihalanx, the two lateral slips are con- tinued onwards, to be inserted into the base of the third. Relations,—By its anterior surface with the deep fascia of the leg and foot, and anterior annular ligament. By its posterior surface with the interosseous mem- brane, fibula, ankle - joint, extensor brevis digitorum (which sepa- rates its tendons from tl le tarsus),' metatarsus, and phalanges. By its inner surface with the: tibialis anticus, extensor jiropi'ius hallucis, and anterior tibial A^essels. By its outer border with the peroneus longus and brevis. Nerve-supply,—This muscle and the next are both supplied by the antei'ior tibial nerve. The PERONEUS TERTIUS arises fiom the loAver fourth of the- inner siirface of the fibula and intermuscular fascia, and is inserted' into the upper surface; of the base of the metatarsal bone of the little ■ toe. Although apparently but a myre division or Qontinuation of! Fig. 241. — Muscles of the anterior tibial region, i. Quadriceps exten- sor inserted into the patella; the ligure rests on the tendon of the rec- tus, the vastus internus and ex- ternus are situ- ated one at each side. 2. Subcu- taneous surface of the tibia. 3. Tibi- alis anticus. 4. Exterisor longus digitorum. 5. B.x- tensor propiius hallucis. 6. Pero- neus tertiu.'i. 7. Pei-oneus longus. S. Peroneus brevis. 9, 9. Borders of the soleus muscle. 10. Part of the in- ner belly of the gastrocnemius. 11. Kxtensor brevis digitorum ; the tendon in front of the number is that of the peroneus tei tius; that be- hind it, the pero- neus brevis.