31 MUSCLE. They OTT Tlie 'transverse lines are most distinct when the cell Non-striated, plain, or involuntary muscular fibres consist ot -1 (incited fusiform, nucleated cells, commonly pointed at their ends, ind h'om mutual pressure ]iolyhedral in transverse section. Th ;nv from ^ ^^"^ "^^^^ length, and from ^^oV m In-eadth. The nucleus is oval, and sometimes so elongated as to iK serve the name of columnar ; it contains an elal)orate network ot wry fine fibrils and often one or more nucleoli. The body of I lie' cell is granular, and presents traces of longitudinal striation ; II lias a fine sheath, prol)al)ly elastic, and containing transverse linear thickenings, which here and there give the fibre a yaricos^e .ippearance. contracted (Klein). The fusi- lorm cells are united into little ljundles or fasciculi by an adhesi^-e interstitial substance, and the fas- I iculi, which are sometimes round and sometimes flat, are bound to- gether into larger Inindles by are- olar tissue and fine elastic fibres ; the interspaces of the bundles Ijeing occupied by vessels and nerves, the former in great abundance. The fasciculi are connected by tlieir ends with fine tendinous libres, by means of which they l)ecome attached to neighbouring l)arts. Unstriped muscle is distributed abundantly in the animal frame, and is met with in the alimentary canal, from the middle of the (esophagus to the internal sphincter p,,;. 45.—Anastomosing muscular fibres ani; in the posterior part of the of heart. On the right the cells and II achea, and in the bronchial tubes ^''^ Id their finest ramifications; in the excretory ducts of various glands, as Wharton's duct, the common bile duct, the calices and pelvis of the kidneys ; in the capsule and trabecula3 of the spleen, the ureters, bladder, and urethra ; in the vasa deferentia and vesiculfe seminales, the prostate, Cowper's glands, and in the substance of the cor])ora cavernosa ; in the Fallopian tubes, uterus, and vagina ; in the de&p layer of the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal (muscidaris mucosa) ; in the middle coat of arteries, veins, and lymphatic vessels ; in the iris and ciliary muscle ; and in the coriuin of the skin, particularly in the areola and nipples of the mammary glands, in the dartos of the scrotum, and around the hair follicles, and many of the sudoriferous and sebaceous ducts. The muscular structure of the heart presents certain i)eculiari- ties which distinguisli it l)oth from the striated and non-striated forms, although the presence of transverse markings leads to its being