307 SPHINCTEK ANI. and prostate gland. Proceeding inwards it divides into tAvo fan sliaped fasciculi, superior and inferior, wlucli embrace the mem branous portion of tlie urethra, and are continuous with the muscle of the opposite side. The superior fasciculus is continued forwards to the junction of the crura penis, and backwards to the prostate ^land ; on the upper surface oi which it is siiread out. The in- ferior fasciculus is attached to the bulb of the urethra in front, and extends to the prostate gland be- hind. The lowest fibres of this fasciculus are sometimes described as a separate muscle under the name of dcef transversus perinei muscle. A third fasciculus, closely united with the two preceding, con- sists of circular fibres, which en- close and form a muscular sheath for the membranous part of the urethra, and are continuous pos- teriorly with the circular muscular fibres of the prostate gland. Under the name of Wilsonh muscle, a fourth fasciculus has been described as descending vertically from the body of the pubes, near the symphysis, to unite Avith the superior fasciculus of the compressor uretlirse. Nerve-supply.—The perineal branch of the pudic. The SPHINCTER ANI is a thin and elliptical plane of luuscle closely adherent to the integument, and surrounding the opening of the anus. It arises posteriorly in the superficial fascia around the coccyx, and by a fibrous raphe (called the ano-coccygeal ligament) from the apex of that bone ; it passes round the margin of the anus, and is inserted anteriorly into the tendinous centre of the perineum, and into the raphe of the integument, nearly as far forAvard as the commencement of the scrotum. The anterior fibres mingle Avith those of the bulbo-cavernosus, the outer ones pass into the levator ani, Avhile some of the innermost fibres cross the median line and decussate Avitli those of the opposite side. The SPHINCTER ANI INTERNUS the extremity of tlie intestine, and foruied by an aggregaticm of tht circular muscular fil)i-es of the rectuui ; it is ccmiposed of unstrijied muscle. Nerve-supply.—The sphlnctei's are su])plied ])y the anterior branch of the fourth sacral, and inferior lioemorrhoidal branch of Fig. 216.—Po.sterioi- view of the pube.«, with part of bhidder and. urethra at- tached. 1. Body of pubes. 2. Ramus. 3. Obturator inienius muscle. 5. Por- tion of the fundus and neck of the bl-adder laid open. 6. Prostate gland. 7. Transverse fibres of the compressor urethiie, passing above the urethra. 8. Similar fibres passing beneath that canal. IS a muscular band euibracing