SCAPHOID AND INTEENAL CUNEIFORM. which pass into the sole of the foot. At the antei'ior extremity of this sm-face is a projecting process (sustentaculum tali), which supports the anterior articulating surface of the astragalus, and serves as a pulley for the tendon of the flexor longus hallucis. At the anterior extremitjj of the bone is a flat articulai' surface, surmounted by a rough prominence, which affords one of the guides to the surgeon in the performance of Chopart's operation. The posterior extremity is prominent and convex, and constitutes the ■jjosterior tuberosity y it is smooth for the upper half of its extent, where it corresponds with a'bursa ; and rough below, for the inser- tion of the tendo Achillis ; the lower part of this surface is bounded by the two inferior tuberosities. Articulations.—With tivo bones : astragalus and cuboid. In their articulated state a large oblique canal is situated between the astragalus and calcaneuin, being formed by the apposition of the two grooves, sulcus tali and sulcus calcanei. This canal is called the simis tarsi, and serves to lodge a strong interosseous jigament which ties the two bones together. Attachment of Muscles.—To eigJd: by the posterior tuberosity, to the tendo Achillis and plantaris ; by the inferior tuberosities and under surface, abductor hallucis, abductor minimi digiti, flexor brevis digitorum, flexor accessorius, and plantar fascia ; by the external surface, extensor brevis digitorum ; and by the sustentacuhim tali, a few fibres of the tibialis posticus. SCAPHOID.—This bone may be distinguished l)y its boat-like figure, being concave on one side, and convex with three facets on tlie other. It presents for examination six surfaces ; three articular and three non-articular. The anterior surface is convex, and divided into three facets to articulate with the three cuneiform bones ; the posterior is concave to articulate Avith the rounded head of the astragalus. The superior surface is convex and rough, and the inferior somewhat concave and uneven. The external extremity is hvoad and rough ; the internal pointed and pi'ominent, forming a tuberosity (tubercle of the scaphoid) which gives attachment to part of the tendon of the tiliialis posticus. The external extremity sometimes presents a facet of articulation with the cul)oid. Recognition.—If the bone be held so that the convex articular surface with three facets look forwards, and the convex non-articular surface upwards, the broad extremity will point to the side corre- sponding with the foot to which the bone Ijelongs. Articulations.—With four bones: astragalus and three cunei- iorm, sometimes also with the cuboid. Attachment of Muscles.—To the tendon of the tibialis posticus INTERNAL CUNEIFORM.—The internal cuneiform may be known .y Its irregular wedge shape, and by being larger than the two other bones which bear the same name. It presents for examination a convex and a concave surface, a long and a short articular border, and a small and a lai'ge extremity. The convex surface is internal and free, and assists in forming the