99 TEMPORAL BONE. Directly behind, and at tlie root of the styloid process, is the stylo- mastoid foramen, the opening of exit of the facial nerve, and entrance of the stylo-mastoid artery ; and a little in front of this, between the mastoid and vaginal processes, is a small slit, the auricular fissure, for the exit of the auricnlar branch of the pneumogastric (Arnold's nerve). Midway between the styloid process and apex of the bone is a large oval opening, the foramen of entrance of the internal carotid artery and carotid plexns of nerves into the carotid canal. Between the stylo-mastoid and carotid foramen, in the posterior border, is an irregular excavation forming part of the jugular fossa for the commencement of the internal jugular vein, on the inner wall of which will he found a minute foramen, for the entrance of Arnold's nerve. The share of the jugular fossa formed by the petrous portion of the temporal bone is different in different bones ; but in all the fossa ]3resents a vertical ridge on its inner side, which cuts off a small portion from the rest. The upper part of tliis ridge forms a spinous projection, the jugular ])^'ocess; the groove to the inner side of the ridge lodges the ninth, tenth, and eleventh nerves, and the lower part of tlie ridge is the septum of division lietween the jugular fossa and carotid foramen. Upon the latter portion of the ridge, near the posterior margin of the carotid foramen, is a small opening leading into a canal wliich transmits the tympanic Ijranch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve (Jacobson's nerve). The superior border of the petrous portion is sharj^, and gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli. It is grooved for the superior petrosal sinus, and near its extremity is marked by a smooth notch, upon which reclines the fifth nerve. The anterior border is grooved for the Eustachian tube, and forms the posterior boundary of the foramen lacerum basis cranii ; by its sharp extrenaity it gives attach- ment to the tensor tympani, and levator palati muscle. The pos- terior border is grooved for the inferior petrosal sinus, and excavated for the jugular fossa : it forms the anterior boundary of the jugular foramen. Development.—The temporal bone is developed in four portions, the sqiMmo-zygomatic, tympanic, petro-mastoid (or periotic), and styloid. Ossification commences in the scpiamo-zygomatic portion about the seventh week. In the third month ossific deposits appear in the floor of the outer wall of the tympanum, and extending iipwards form a circle, the tympanic ring, which is defective al)ove ; it joins the squamo- zygomatic portion in the ninth month. In the petro- mastoid ])orti()n ossification begins in the fifth montli, ^^o. 104.—The taking phice by four distinct osseous deposits; one f-in^'of" "the for the promontory {opisthotic), one for the greater foetal skull, part of the petrous l)one seen in the base of the "gi"side. skull (jn-ootic), a third in connection with the posterior semicircular canal aiid lower part of the mastoid (eviotic), and a fourth forming the roof of the tympanum and covering of the external semicircular canal {yterotic); these centres all fuse by the end of the sixth month