633 VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE EYE. elastic tissue. These fibres spread out upon the margin of the lens, both on its anterior and posterior aspect; it is, however, possible to inflate spaces between them, and this fact led to the description of a space round the margin of the lens under the name of canal of Petit (canal of Hannover). VESSELS AND NERVES OF THE GLOBE OF THE EYE. . The vessels of the globe of the eye are the long, short, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centralis retince. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and pass forwards on each side, between that membrane and the choroid, to the base of the ciliary processes, where each divides into two branches, which form an elaborate net- work in the sul^stance of the ciliary processes and iris. The short ciliary arteries pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic coat, and are distributed to the middle layer of the choroid membrane (chorio- capillaris). The anterior ciliary are branches of the muscular arteries ; they enter the eye just behind the junction of the cornea and sclerotic, and join the anastomotic circle of the iris. It is the congestion of these latter arteries, in iritis, that giv.es rise to the peculiar red zone round the circumference of the cornea. The distribution of the arteria centralis retinae has been already described. The nerves of the eyeball are—the optic, two ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the ciliary nerves from the oj)hthalmic ganglion. The optic nerve has an outer sheath con- tinuous with the sclerotic and derived from the dura mater, and an inner sheath which it receives from the arachnoid. Between these is the subvaginal space, continuous with the sulxlural space of the ■cranial cavity. OEGAN OF HEARING. The apparatus of hearing is composed of three parts : external ear, middle ear or tympanum, and internal ear or laljyrinth. EXTERNAL EAR. The external ear consists of two portions, the pinna or auricle and meatus ; the former representing a kind of funnel which col- lects the vibrations of the atmosphere producing sounds, and the latter a tube which conveys the vibrations to the tympanum. The PINNA presents a number of folds and hollows on its sur- face, which have difi'erent names assigned to them. Thus, the external folded margin is tlie helix (eXi^, a fold). The elevation parallel with and in front of the helix, is the antihelix {avri, oppo-