556 CKANIAL NERVES. side oi' 1-lie stoinacli ; tlie two coi'dn reiuiitiiig at tlie lower ])ai-t of the (xsopliagus. Tlie left nerve enters tlie cliest between tlie leii common carotid and subclavian artery lying behind the left vena innominata; it then crosses the ai-ch of tlie aorta, and reaches the posterior part of the root of the left Inng, whence it descends, bv one or two cords, along the anterior aspect of the oesophagus to tLi front part of the stomach. In the jugular foramen, the pneumogastric nerve presents a small round ganglion, the superior ganglion or ganglion of the root; and immediately aftei' its exit a ganglifoi'iii swelling, neai'ly an incli in length, the inferior ganglion ov ganglion of the trunk. Deep Origin.—The iibres of origin of the pneumogastric ner\c may be traced to a mass of nerve cells placed beneath the floor of the fourth ventricle, Ijelow the nucleus of the glosso-pharyngeal, and extending down to the calamus scriptorius. The branches of the pneumogastric nerve are branches of com- munication and branches of distribution. The branches of comniunication proceed from the ganglia; from the superior ganglion one or two branches jjass to the spinal accessory ; one or two to the superior ganglion of the sympathetic ; and one to the inferior ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. From the inferior ganglion there pass off branches to the hy|Doglossal, branches to the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and branches to the loop between the first and second cervical nerve. The branches of disfribution are— Meningeal, Anterior jDulmonary, Auricular, Posterior pulmonary. Pharyngeal, CEsophageal, Superior laryngeal. Gastric. Cardiac, Inferior or recurrent laryngeal. ^ The meningeal or recurrent is a small branch given off from the ganglion of the root; it passes backwards to be distributed to the dura mater of the posterior fossa of the skull. The auricular branch (Arnold's nerve) is given off from the lower part of the ganglion of the root, or from the trunk of the nerve immediately below it, and receives immediately after its origin a small branch of comniunication from the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal. It then passes outwards behind the jugulai- vein, and at the outer side of that vessel enters a small canal (p. 99) in the jugular fossa of the temporal bone. Guided bv that canal it reaches the descending part of the aqueductus Fallopii and communicates with the facial nerve ; it then passes outwards through a small fissure situated between the mastoid process and external auditory process (auditory fissure), and reaching the surface of the bone communicates with the posterior auricular nerve ana is distributed to the back part of the pinna and auditory canal. The pharyngeal nerve arises from the upper part of the ganglion