TARSUS 167 is lost above and below in tlie inner border of the bone, and which gives attacliment to the interosseous membrane. The posterior sur- face is twisted like the external ; it commences above on the posterior side of the bone, and terminates below on its internal side ; at about tlie middle of tins surface is the nutrient foramen, which is directed downwards. Tlie internal border commences superiorly in common with the interosseous ridge, and bifurcates inferiorly into two lines, wliicli l)Ound the triangular subcutaneous surface of the external malleolus. The external border Ijegins at the base of the styloid process of the head, and winds around tlie l)one, following the direction of the corresponding surface. The posterior border, sharp and jjrominent, is lost inferiorly in the interosseous ridge. Recognition.—In order to I'ecognise whether the bone belongs to the right or left side, it should lie held with the head (known by the styloid process and terminal articular facet) upwards, and the pit at the back of the external malleolus directed towards the observer ; the triangular subcutaneous area will then point to the side to Avhicli the bone l)elongs. Development.—By three centres ; one for the shaft, and one foi- each extremity. Ossification commences in the shaft soon after its appearance in the tibia ; at birth the extremities are cartilaginous, an osseous deposit taking place in the inferior epiphysis during the second year, and in the superior during the fourth or fifth. The inferior epiphysis is the first to become united -\\dth the diaphysis, Init the bone is not completed until nearly the twenty-fifth year. 'Hie epiphyses of all the long bones except the fibula unite with the diaphysis in the reverse oi-der of their appearance ; but in the fibula, the lower epiphysis, which is the first to appear, is also the first to .join the shaft. Articulations.—With the tibia and astragalus. Attachment of Muscles.—To nitie : by the head, to the tendon of the biceps and soleus ; by the s/,aft, its external surface, jieroneus longus and brevis ; internal surface, extensor longus digitorum, ex- tensor proprius hallucis, peroneus tertius, and til)ialis po.sticus ; by the posterior surface, fiexor longus hallucis. The bones of the tarsus are seven in number, viz., astragalus os calcis, scaphoid, internal, middle, and external cuneiform, and cuboid. ASTRAGALUS—The astragalus (os tali) may be recognised by its roundecl liead, a broad articular facet on its convex surface and two articular facets, separated by a deep groove, on its concave suriace. The bone is divisible into a superior and inferior surface, an ex- ternal and internal border, and an anterior and posterior extremity.