FLEXOE BREVIS DIGITOEUM. 373 Fig. 247. — First layer of muscles of the sole of the foot; this layer is exposed by the re- moval of the plan- tar fascia, i. Os calcis. 2. Posterior part of the plan- tar fascia divided transversely. 3. Abductor hallu- cis. 4. Abductor minimi digiti. 5. Flexor bre vis digi- torum. 6. Tendon of the flexor long- iis hallucis. 7, 7. Lumbricales. On the second and third toe, the ten- dons of the flexor longus digitorum are seen passing tlirough the bifur- cation of the ten- dons of the flexor brevis digitorum. Nerve-supply.—Internal plantar nerve. The ABDUCTOR MINIMI DIGITI lies along the outer border of the sole of the foot. It arises from the outer tuberosity of the os cal- cis, the surface between the two tuberosities, the external intermuscular septum, and from the plantar fascia as far for- ward as the base of the fifth metatarsal bone ; and is inserted with the flexor brevis into the hase of the first phalanx of the little toe. Relations. — By its superficial surface with the external portion of the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the flexor accessorius, flexor brevis minimi digiti, tarsal bones, and meta- tarsal bone of the little toe. By its inner side with the flexor brevis digitorum, from which it is separated by the vertical septum of the j)lantar fascia. Nerve-supply.—External plantar nerve. The FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM (perforatus) is placed between the two preceding muscles. It arises from the under surface of the OS calcis, from the plantar fascia, and intermuscular septa ; and is inserted by four tendons into the liase of the second phalanx of the four lesser toes. Each tendon divides, previously to its insertion, to give passage to the tendon of the long flexor; hence its cognomen perforatus. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the plantar fascia. By its deep surface with a thin layer of fascia which separates it from the flexor accessorius, tendons of the flexor longus digitorum and flexor longus hallucis, and plantar vessels and nerves. By its borders with the vertical septa of the plantar fascia which separate the muscle, on the one side from the abductor hallucis, and on the other from the abductor minimi digiti. Nerve-supply.—Internal plantar nerve. Second Layer. Flexor accessorius, Lumbricales. Dissection.—The three preceding muscles must be divided nen ai-