ACTIONS OF THE EXTENSOE MUSCLES OF THE THIGH. 357 Nerve-supply.—Anterior crural nerve. The four muscles above described are often grouped under one common title as tlie quadriceps extensor cruris; or, the three muscles most intimately connected, the two vasti and the crureus, receive the name of triceps femoralis. SUB-CRUREUS.—When the crureus is divided from its insertion, a small muscle is seen upon the lower part of the femur ; it generally consists of two fasciculi, external and internal, which are inserted into the pouch of synovial membrane that extends upwards from the knee-joint, behind the patella ; and is named, from its situation, sub-crureus. It draws up the synovial membrane in the act of extension of the knee-joint. Actions.—The tensor vaginae femdris renders the fascia lata tense, and rotates the limb inwards. The sartorius flexes the leg upon the thigh, and, continuing to act, the thigh upon the jjelvis, at the same time rotating it outwards and carrying the leg across that of the opposite side, into the position in which tailors sit; hence its name. Taking its fixed point from below, it assists the extensor muscles in steadying the leg, for the siipport of the trunk. The other four muscles have been collectively named quadriceps extensor, from their similarity of action. They extend the leg upon the thigh, and obtain a great increase of power by their attachment to the patella, which I acts as a fulcrum. Taking their fixed point from the tibia, they steady the femur upon the leg, and the rectus, being attached to the pelvis, serves to balance the trunk upon the lower extremity. Dissection.—These muscles are exposed by the removal of the inner flap of integument recommended in the dissection of the an- terior femoral region. The iliacus and psoas arising from within the abdomen can only be seen in their entire extent after the removal of the viscera from that cavity. \ The ILIACUS INTERNUS is a flat radiated muscle. It arises from ( the fossa of the ilium, ilio-lumbar ligament, base of the sacrum, ^ internal lip of the crest, and anterior border of the bone ; and after - escaping beneath tlie crural arch and joining the tendon of the psoas, is inserted into the trochanter minor of the femur. A few fibres of this muscle are derived from the base of the sacrum, and others from the capsular ligament of the hip-joint. The Hiacus internus and psoas magnus are so intimately blended at their insertion that tliey are sometimes described as a single I muscle arising by two heads under the name of ilio-psoas. I Relations.—By its anterior surface, within the pelvis, with the Internal Femoral Region. Iliacus internus. Psoas magnus, Pectineus, Adductor longus, Adductor brevis, Adductor magnus, Gracilis,