STKUCTUEE OF VEINS. particularly lial)le from the thinness of their coats, and from their inability to overcome much impediment by the force of their current. Structure of Veins.—Veins closely resemble arteries in their structure, and like them are formed of three coats—external or tunica adventitia, iiiiddle or tunica media, and internal or tunica intima. It will be sufficient if we here indicate the particulars in Avhicli thesu several coats differ from those corresponding to theur in arteries. External Coat.—This is thick in proportion to the other coats, aud is composed of longitudinal and oblitpie bands of filjrous tissue, with some elastic fibres ; the interstices between the fibres lodge ramified connective-tissue corpuscles. In certain veins, as the in- ferior vena cava, renal, azygos, spermatic, and external iliac veins, this coat contains a thin layer of unstriped nuiscular tissue. Middle Coat.—The transverse muscular fibres which distinguish this coat in both arteries and veins are in the latter very thin ; they never form continuous layers, and are never sejjarated fi'oni each other by distinct elastic membranes as in the arteries, the interven- ing substance in veins being us\ially white fibrous tissue. Inner Coat.—This coat is firmer than the inner coat of arteries, and can be stripped off without breaking ; it consists of an endothelial layer, a subendothelial layer of branched cells, and an elastic layei-, either forming fenestrated membrane, or existing simply as a closely areolated longitudinal network of coarse and tine elastic fibres. Longitudinal muscular fibres are found in the inner coat of some veins. Variations in the Structure of Veins.—The middle coat is wanting in the thoracic pai't of the inferior vena cava and in the hepatic veins ; it is most developed in the splenic and portal veins, and in those of the gravid uterus. The sui^erior and inferior vena cava and pulmonary veins as they enter the heart receive a covering of striped muscular fibres, continued on to them from tliat organ. Muscular tissue is absent from the veins of the maternal part of the placenta, the jugular and subclavian veins, the veins of the retina, tlu' .sinuses of the dura mater, the veins of bones and muscle, and tlu- spaces in the substance of the corjDora cavernosa of the penis. Tlu' veins of the gravid uterus have muscular tissue in considerabk' quantity, and distributed throughout all three of their coats. The Valves of Veins are composed of a thin stratum of fibrous tissue mingled with fine elastic fibi'es, and coated on the tAvo sui-faccs with the endothelial lining of the A-essel. The segments or fiaps of the valves of veins are semilunar in form, and arranged in jmirs, one. upon each side of the vessel ; in some instances there is but a singK' flap, which has a spiral direction, and occasionally there are threo. The free border of the valvular flaps is concave, and directed forwards, so that while the current of blood is permitted to i\ow freely towards the heart, the valves are distended, and the current intercepted, if the stream Ijeconie retrograde in its course. On the cardiac side of each valve the \ eiu is ex])anded into two pouches