127 ORBITS. of the petrous bone which gives origin to the levator palati and tensor tynipani nuiscles, and, externally to this process, the carotid foramen for the transmission of the internal carotid artery and ascendincT branches of the superior cervical ganglion of the sym- pathetic t and behind the carotid foramen, the jugular foramen and luoular fossa. Externally, and somewhat in front of the latter, is the styloid process, and at its base the vaginal process. Behind and at the foot of the styloid process is the stylo-mastoid foramen, for the facial nerve and stylo-mastoid artery, and farther outwards the mastoid process. At the inner side of the root of the mastoid process is the digastric fossa ; and a little farther inwards, the occi- pital groove. On the sides of the foramen magnum, and near its anterfor circumference, are the condyles of the occipital bone. In front of each condyle, and piercing its base, is the anterior condylar foramen for the hypoglossal nerve, and directly behind the condyle the irregular fossa in which the posterior condylar foramen is situated. Behind the foramen magnum are the two curved lines of the occipital bone, the spine, and the protuberance, with the rough surfaces for the attachment of muscles. The Face is somewhat oval in contour, uneven in surface, and excavated for the reception of two principal organs of sense, the eye and the nose. It is formed by part of the frontal bone, and by the bones of the face. Superiorly it is bounded by the frontal eminences ; beneath these are the superciliary ridges, converging towards the glabella ; beneath the superciliary ridges are the supraorbital ridges, terminating externally in the external border of the orbit, and internally in the internal border, and presenting towards their inner third the supraorbital notch, for the supraorbital nerve and artery. Beneath the supraorbital ridges are the cavities of the orbits. Beneath the orbits is the bridge of the nose, overarching the anterior nares ; and on each side of the- nares the canine fossa of the superior maxillary bone, the infraorbital foramen, and still farther outwards the prominence of the malar bone ; at the lower margin of the nares is the nasal si^ine, and beneath it the superior ah'eolar arch, containing the teeth of the upper jaw. Forming the lower boundary of the face is the lower jaw, containing in its alveolar process the lower teeth, and projecting inferiorly to constitute the chin I on each side of the chin is the mental foramen. If a per- pendicular line be drawn from the inner third of the supraorbital I'idge to the inner third of the body of the lower jaw, it will be found to intersect three openings : the supraorbital, infraorbital, and mental, each giving passage to a facial branch of the fifth nerve. ORBITS. The orbits are two quadrilateral hollow cones, situated in the upper part of the face, and intended for the reception of the eye- balls, with their muscles, vessels, and nerves, and the lachrymal