5o6 CEREBRUM, in every instance V of the pyramid Ijeing a little drawn out, and directed towards the surface of the convolution. The third layer is wider and paler tlian the second ; it consists of lai'ge pyramidal cells separated into groups by the radiating fibres of the hemisphere. The fourth layer is composed of small, closely set, angular corpuscles, placed iir- regularly, and imperfectly separated into groups. Tlie fifth is a layer of fusiform coi-- puscles which are placed vertically to the summit of a gyrus, but parallel to the surface of a sulcus. With the unaided eye it is easy to note the alternation of whitish -with reddish- grey layers, but it is at all times difficult, even with the mici'oscope, to ascertain the number of layers, or to define accurately the limits of each. The Interior of the Cerebrum. If the brain be placed upon its base, and the upper part of one hemisphere, at about one-third from its summit, be re- moved with a scalpel, a centre of white substance Avill be observed, surrounded Idv a narrow border of grey, which follows the line of the sulci and convolutions, and presents a zigzag form. This section is called centrum ovale minus; it is spotted by numerous small red points (pmicta vasculosa), which are produced b}^ the escape of blood from the cut ends of minute arteries and veins. Separate carefully the two hemisplieret- of the cerebrum, and a Inroad band of white suljstance (corpus callosum) will be seen to connect them ; it will be seen also that the surface of the hemisphere, where it comes in contact with the corjjus callosum, is bounded by the gyrus fornicatus. The sulcus between this convolution and the corpus callosum has been termed the " ^'en- tricle of the corpus callosum." If the upper part of each hemisphere be removed to a level A^dth the corpus callosum, a large expanse of medullary matter, surrounded by a zigzag line of grey substance corresponding with the convolutions and sulci of the two hemi- spheres, will be seen ; this is the centrum ovale majns of Vieusseii?^. The corpus callosum is a thick layer of fibres passing trans- versely between the two hemispheres, and constituting their arcai Fig. 302.—Section of grey cortex of a convolution. I, 2, 3, 4, 5. The five layers described in the next. m. The white centre of the brain.