PLANTAR INTEROSSEI. 376 flexor longus and flexor brevis digitorum, the fourth lumbricalis, abductor minimi digiti, and plantar fascia. By its deep surface with the plantar interosseous muscle of the fourth metatarsal space, and the lifth metatarsal bone. Nerve-supply.—External plantar. Fourth Layer. Plantar interossei. • The PLANTAR INTEROSSEI muscles are three in number, and are placed imon rather than between the metatarsal bones. They arise from the base and inner side of the shaft of the metatarsal bone of the three outer toes, and are inserted into the inner side of the extensor tendon and base of the first phalanx of the same toes. The plantar interosseous all draw towards the middle line of the second toe, the dorsal draw from that line ; hence the former are abductors, the latter adductors. A like arrangement exists in the hand, with this difference, that the middle finger is the one through which the central line is drawn. Actions.—The muscles of the foot cor- respond generally with those of the hand, and their actions are indicated by their names. It may, however, be noticed that, while the long flexor muscles are flexors of the toes, they are extensors of the foot at the ankle-joint, and in like manner the extensors of the toes are flexors of the ankle. The flexor accessorius is not represented in the hand ; its use is to modify the line of action of the long flexoi', so as to bring it into the dii'ection of the middle of the foot, and of the short flexor muscle. It is probable that the adductor hallucis cor- responds to the inner head of the flexor bre^ds j)oIIicis of the hand, the trans- versus pedis being the true adductor ; and the nerve-supply of these muscles furnishes confirmation of that view. The great toe they are all HfWwciors to the j^^s a verv slight range of movement com- Z bne of the second ^^^^.^^ ^^^^j^ ^^^^ although it has corresponding muscles, has no opponent power ; that is to say, it cannot be so placed as to face the other toes, as the thumb can to the fingers. The interossei and lumbricales, like those of the hand, are flexors of the first phalanges and extensors of the two last. Fic!. 249.—Diagram of the plantar interosseous mus- cles, designed to show that