134 KIBS. of muscles ; Ihe internal is ilat, and corresponds witli the pleura • the siipenor border is rounded. The inferior border is sharp and grooved on its inner edge, the lower edge of the groove giving attachment to the external, and the upper edge to the internal intercostal muscle. Near its vei'tebral extremity, the rib is some- what bent; and opposite the bend, on the external surface, is a rough oblique ndge, which gives attachment to a tendon of the sacro- lumbahs muscle, and is called the angle. The distance between the vertebral extremity and the angle increases gradually from the second to the eleventh rib. Beyond the angle is a rough elevation, the tubercle, to which the posterior costo-transverse ligament is at- tached ; and immediately at the base and under side of the tubercle a smooth surface for articulation with the extremity of the transverse process of the corresponding vertebra. The vertebral end of the vih is somewhat expanded, and termed the head, and that portion be- tween the head and tubercle, the neck. On the extremity of the head is an oval smooth surface divided by a transverse ridge into two facets for articulation with two contiguous vertebra?; the ridge being joined to the intervertebral substance by means of an inter- Fiu. 124.—Vertebral extrem- ity of tlieseYeiithribof tlie right side. i. The angle. 2. Tlie tubercle; rough surface for the posterior costo-transverse ligament. 3. Articular surface. 4. Neck of rib. 5. Head, presenting two articular facet.?. 6. Eough surface for the attachment of'the middle costo-transverse ligament. 7. Crest for the anterior costo-transverse ligament. 8. Upper rounded border. 9. Lower sharp border. 10. Groove on the inner edge of the lowi'r border. articular ligament. The posterior surface of the neck is rough, for the attachment of the middle costo-transverse ligament; and upon its upper border is a crest, which gives attachment to the anterior costo-transverse ligament. The sternal extremity is flattened, and presents an oval depression for the reception of the costal cartilage. The ribs that demand esjjecial consideration are the first, tenth, eleventh, and twelfth. The first is the shortest rib ; it is broad and fiat, and placed horizontally at the upper part of the thorax, the surfaces looking upwards and downwards, in place of forwards and backwards as in the other ribs. At about the anterior third of the upper surface of the bone, and near its internal border, is a tubercle {scalene tubercle), which gives attachment to the scalenus anticus muscle, and imme- diately before and behind that tubercle, a shallow oblique groove, the former for the subclavian vein, the latter for the subclavian artery. Near the posterior- extremity of the bone is a thick and prominent tubercle, with a smooth articular surface for the transverse process of the first dorsal vertebra ; and between the tubercle and the groove for the subclavian artery is a depression for the attach-