302 ACTIONS OF ABDOMINAL MUSCLES AND DIAPHRAGM. Actions of the Muscles of the Abdominal Wall and the Diaphragm.—The external olilique muscle, acting singly, draws the thorax towards the pelvis, and twists the l)ody to the opposite side. Both nuiscles, acting together, flex the thorax directly on the pelvis. The internal oblique of one side draws the chest do^\^lwards and out- wards ; lx)th together bend it directly forwards. Eitlier transversalis muscle, acting singly, will diminish" the size of the abdomen on its own side, and both together will consti'ict the entire cylinder of the ca\dty. The recti muscles tlex the thorax towards the peh'is, and, through the arrangement of their sheaths, combine with the obliqui; and transverse muscles in exercising ]jressure on the abdonunal viscera. The absence of the posterior layer of the .sheath of the rectus muscles below allows of direct pressure being bronglit to bear upon the bladder when full, and upon the uterus in partu- rition. The pyramidales are tensors of the linea all)a. The al)- doniinal are expirator}^ muscles, and chief agents in expulsion; by their action, the foetus is expelled from the uterus, the urine from the bladder, fa3ces from the rectum, bile from the gall-bladdei', ingesta from the stomach and bowels in vomiting, and mucus ancl irritating substances from the Ijronchial tubes, tracliea, and nasal passages during coughing and sneezing. To produce these effects, they all act together. The cpiadratus liunborum draws the last rib do^\'nwards, and is an expiratoi'y muscle ; it also serves to bend the A'ertebral column to one or the other side. The psoas parA'us is a tensor of the iliac fascia, and, taking its fixed origin from below, may assist in flexing the vertebral column forwards. The diaphragm is an insjDiratory muscle, and the sole agent in trantpiil insjiiration. When in action, the muscle is drawn downwards, its plane being rendered oblique from the level of the ensiform cartilage to that of the upper lumliar vertebra. During relaxation it is convex, and encroaches considerably on the cavity of the chest, particularly at the sides, where it corresponds with the lungs. It assists the abdonunal muscles powerfully in expulsion, every act of that kind being preceded or accompanied by inspiration. Spasmodic action of the diaphragm produces hiccough and sobbing, and its rapid alternation of contraction and relaxation, combined with laryngeal and facial movements, laughing and crying. MUSCLES AND FASCIvE OF THE PERINEUM. The muscles of the perineum are situated in the outlet of the pelvis, and consist of two groups, one of -which belongs esjiecially to the organs of generation and urethra, the other to the termination of the alimentary canal. To these may be added the muscles of the coccyx. The muscles of the perineal i-egion in the male are the— Bulbo-cavernosus, Ischio-cavernosus, Transversus perinei. Compressor urethroc, Sj)hincter ani. Levator ani, Coccygeus.