78 DORSAL VERTEBRAE. spinous process, which is concave beneatli, and hy its upper surface gives attacliuieiit to the inferior oblique muscle. The transversa 2)rocesses are rndinientaiy, not bifid, and ])roject only so far as to enclose the verteljral foramen, which is directed ol)]i(|uely outwards instead of perpendicularly as in the other vertebrae. The superior articulating processes are situated on the body of tlie vertebi'a, at each side of the odontoid process. They are cii-cular and nearl\- horizontal, having a slight inclination outwards. The inferior articu- lating processes look downwards and forwards, as do the same jii o- cesses in the other cer^dcal A'ertebr-a3. Tlie superior interverttbrul notch is remarkably shallow, and lies behind the articular process as in the atlas ; the inferior notch lies in front of the articular process, as in the rest of the vertebra?. The lower surface of the Ijody is convex, and is received into the concavity iipon the upper surface of the third vertebi'a. The Vertebra prominens, or seventh cervical, approaches in char- acter the upper dorsal vertebrae. It has received its designation from having a very long spinous process, which is single and termi- nated by a tubercle, and forms a projection- on the back part of the neck ; to the extremity of this process the ligamentum nuchae is attached. The transverse processes are but slightly grooved along the upper surface, have each a small foramen for the transmission of the vertebral vein, and present only a rudimentary bifurcation at tlieir extremity. Sometimes the anterior tubercle represents a small but distinct rilo. Dorsal Vertebrae.—The body of a dorsal vertebra is as long.from before backwards as from side to side, particularly in the middle of Fig. 86.—Lateral view of a dorsal vertebra. I. The body. 2, 2. Articular facets for the heads of ribs. 3. The pedicle. 4. The supe- rior intervertebral notch. 5. The inferior intervertebral notch. 6. The spinous pro- cess. 7. The extremity of tlie transverse process, marlied by an articular surface for the tubercle of a rib. 8. The two superior articular processes looking backwards. 9. The two inferior articular processes looking forwards. the dorsal region ; it is thicker behind than liefore, and marked on each side by two half-articulating surfaces for the heads of two ribs. Its upper and lower surfaces are somewhat heart-sha])ed, and are nearly flat, but have a slightly sunken centre, Avith distinct margins of dense, smooth bone ; in the recent state this is occupied by a plate of cartilage. The pedicles are strong, and the lamiiice broad and thick : the spinal foramen small and round, and the inferior intervertebral notch of large size ; the superior can scarcely be said to exist. The spinous process is long, prisiuoid, directed very obliquely downwards.