778 MALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The urethral canal is closed, excej^t during the passage of uiinc or semen, the closure resulting in the mucous membrane bein- tlirown into longitudinal folds ; the lumen in tliis condition foriji> a transverse slit, but at the meatus the slit is vertical. TESTICLES. The testicles are two small glandular organs suspended from the abdomen by the spermatic cords, and enclosed in an external tegu- inentaiy covering, the scrotum. The SCROTUM is distinguished into two lateral halves or hemi- spheres by a raph^, which is continued anteriorly along tlie nndci surface of the penis, and ])osteriorly along the middle line of tlic perineum to the anus. Of these two lateral portions the left is somewhat longer than the right, and corresponds with the greatei' length of the spermatic cord on the left side. The scrotum is composed of two layers, integument, and a pro])er covering, the dartos : the integument is thin, devoid of fat, semi- transparent, possesses numerous large sebaceous and sudori2)arous glands, is beset witli hairs which issue obliquely from the skin, and have prominent roots, and has usually a dark colour from the presence of pigment in the epidermis. The tunica dartos is a thin I'eddish layer composed of unstriped muscular tissue; it forms tlie proper tunic of the scrotum, and sends inwards a sejitura, septum scroti, which divides the cavity into two sacs for the two tes- ticles. The dartos is continuous around the base of the scrotum with the common superficial fascia of the abdomen and perineum, and in an attenuated form is prolonged upon the penis to the prepuce. The SPERMATIC CORD is the medium of communication between the testicle and the interior of the al)domen; and is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, tlie exci-etory duct of the testicle, and investing tunics. It commences at the internal alxlominal ring, where the vessels of A\diich it is composed converge, and passes obliquely along the spermatic canal; the cord then escapes at the external abdominal ring, and descends through the scrotum to the posterior border of the testicle. The left cord is somewhat longer than tlie right, and permits the left testicle to reach a lower level than its fellow. The arteries of the spermatic cord are—the spermatic artery from the aorta; the deferential artery, accompanying the vas deferens, from the superior vesical; and the cremasteric, from the epigastric artery. The spermatic veins form a plexus which constitutes the chief bulk of the cord ; they are provided with valves at short in- tervals, and the smaller veins haA^e a peculiar tendril-like arrange- ment, which has obtained for them the name of pampiniform plexus (spermatic plexus). The lymphatics are of large size, and terminate in the lumbar glands. The nerves are the spermatic plexus of the sympathetic, whicli is derived from the aortic and renal plexus, tlie