MUSCLES OF FOOT, 371 arises from the lower two-thirds of the external surface of the slaaft of the fibula and intermuscular septa, and terminates in a tendon which passes behind the external malleolus and through a groove in the os calcis, to be inserted into the outer side of the base of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the peroneus longus and fascia of the leg and foot. By its deep surface with the fibula, OS calcis, and cuboid bone. The lateral relations of the muscle are the same as those of the peroneus longus. The tendon of the peroneus brevis has but two tendinous sheaths and two synovial membranes, one being behind the external malleolus and common • to both i^eronei, the other at the side of the os calcis. Nerve-supply.—Musciilo-cutaneous nerve. Actions.—The peronei muscles are extensors of tlie foot, con- j"ointly with the tibialis posticus. They antagonise the tibialis anticus and peroneus tertius, which are flexors of the foot; they also raise the outer border of the foot and draw it outwards. The whole of these muscles acting together, tend to maintain the arch of the foot, so necessary to security in walking. FOOT. Dorsal Region. Extensor brevis digitorum. Dorsal interossei. The EXTENSOR BREVIS DIGITORUM muscle arises from the outer side of the OS calcis, the external calcaneo-asti'agaloid ligament, and the lower part of the an- terior annular ligament; it crosses the foot obliquely, and terminates in four tendons, the innermost of which is inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the great toe, and the other three into tlie outer side of the long extensor tendons of the second, third, and fourth toes. Relations.—By its ujjjm- surface with the tendons of the extensor longus digi- torum, peroneus brevis, and the deep fascia of the dorsum of the IS r1n.Vi with the tarsal and metatarsal bones, the rloinf '"'^T'^'^l "^"t?"'-. i« ^'elation with jaiS '''' ----g artery Nerve-supply.—Anterior tibial nerve. ihe DORSAL INTEROSSEI muscles, four in number, are placed Fig. 246. —Diagram of the dorsal interosseous muscles of the foot; designed to show that they all abduct from the middle line of the second toe.