84 SACRUM. of muscles, tlie longus colli, rectus anticus minor, rectus lateralis, rectus posticus minor, obli([uus superior and inferior, splenius colli, levator anguli scajiuUe, and lirst intertransverse. To the axis are attached eleven pairs—Adz., longus colli, inter- transverse, obliquus inferior, rectus posticus major, interspinal, semi- s])inalis colli, multifidus spina), levator anguli scapula?, splenius colli, transversalis cervicis, and scalenus medius. To the remaining vertehrce collectively, thirty-one pairs and one single muscle—viz., posteriorly, trapezius, latissinrus dorsi, leA^ator anguli scapulaj, rhomboideus minor and major, serratus posticus superior and inferior, sijlenius, sacro-lumbalis, longissimus dorsi, spinalis dorsi, cervicalis ascendens, transversalis cervicis, trachelo- mastoid, complexus, semispinalis dorsi and colli, multifidus spinse, interspinal, intertransverse, levatores costarum : anteriorly, rectus anticus major, longus colli, scalenus anticus, medius, and posticus, psoas magnus, psoas parvus, quadratus limiborum, diaphragm, obliquus internus and transversalis. The SACRUM is a triangular bone, situated at the lower extremity of the vertebral column, and formed by the consolidation of five FxG. go.—The sacrum seen upon its anterior surface, i, i. Transverse lines marking the original constitution of the bone of five pieces. 2, 2. Anterior sacral foramina. 3. Promontory of the sacrum. 4. Auricular surface to articulate with the ilium. 5. The sharp edge to which the sacro-ischiatic liga- ments ai'C attached. 6. The vertebral articu- lar surface. 7. The broad triangular surface which supports the psoas muscle and lumbo- sacral nerve. 8. Articular process of the right side. g. Inferior extremity, or apex of the sacrum. 10. One of the sacral cornua. 11. Tlie notch which is converted into a foramen by the coccyx. false vertebrae. It is divisible into an anterior and posterior sm-face, two lateral and a superior border, and an inferior extremity. The anterior surface is concave, and marked by four transverse lines, Avhich indicate its original constitution of five separate pieces. At the extremities of these lines, on each side, are the four anterior sacral foramina, which diminish in size from above downwards, and transmit the anterior sacral nerves. The ridges between the anterior sacral foramina give attachment to the pyriformis muscle. The ]projection of the superior piece is the sacro-vertebral angle or j;»-o- montorij. ■, ^ ■ 1 The posterior surface is narrower than tlie anterior, and convex. On a middle line is a rough crest, formed by the rudiments of four spinous processes, the fifth remaining undeveloiied, and exposing the lower termination of the sacral canal. Immediately external to and