FACIAL AKTERY. 387 moses with the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The tonsillar branch ascends by the side of the pharynx, and pierces the superior constrictor muscle to be distributed to the tonsil, and root of the tongue. The submaxillary are four or five branches which supply the submaxillary gland. The submental branch runs forward on the mylo-hyqid muscle, under cover of the body of the lower jaw, distributes branches to the submaxillary gland," and muscles attached to the lower jaw, and anastomoses with branches of the sublingual, inferior labial, and mental arteries. The muscular branches beneath the jaw are distributed to the internal pterygoid, digastric, and stylo-hyoid, and those on the face to the masseter and ljuccinator. The buccal branches, eight or ten in number, are given off upon the face, and are distributed to the buccinator, masseter, muscles of the upper lij), orbicularis palpebrarum, and integument of the cheek. They anastomose with the buccal branch of the internal maxillary, the transA^erse facial, and infraorbital. The inferior labial branch passes forward beneath the depressor anguli oris muscle, and is distributed to the muscles of the lower lip, inosculating with the labial branch of the inferior dental, the inferior coronary, and submental. It is frequently derived from the next branch. The inferior coronary branch is given off at the angle of the mouth, and passes inwards near the edge of the lower lip, lying between the orbicularis and mucous membrane : it inosculates vnth. its fellow of the opposite side. The superior coronary branch, arising close to, or in common vnth, the preceding, takes its course in the same manner along the upper lip, inosculating with its fellow of the o]jposite side. At the middle of the lip it sends a small branch upwards to the septum of the nose (arteria septi). The lateral nasal branch is given off near the ala nasi, and passes beneath the levator labii superioris alajque nasi, to be distributed to the nose. It inosculates with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery, the infraorbital, and its fellow of the opposite side. The angular is the termination of the facial artery ; it inosculates at the inner side of the orbit with the nasal branch of the ophthal- mic artery. The inosculations of the facial artery are numerous—namely, with the sublingual Ijranch of the lingual, ascending pharyngeal artery, descending palatine artery, inferior dental at its escape from the mental foramen, infraorljital at the infraorbital foramen, buccal branches of the internal maxillary on the surface of the buccinator, transverse facial on tlie side of the face, and nasal and frontal branches of the ophthalmic artery at the angle of the eye. The facial artery is subject to variety in length : it not unfre-