DIAPHRAGM. 301 process, extending sometimes also to that of the second. Beneath this arcli a psoas abscess emerges from the chest. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is a tendinous band ex- tended from the apex of the transverse process of the first lumbar vertebra to the lower border of the last rib. It forms an arch across the quadratus lumborum, and is a thickened part of the sheath of that muscle derived from the posterior aponeurosis of the trans- versalis alxlominis. The tendinous centre of the diaphragm is shaped like a trefoil leaf, of which the central leaflet points to the ensiform cartilage, and is the largest; the lateral leaflets, right and left, occupy the corre- sponding portions of the muscle ; the right being the larger and rounded, the left smaller and lengthened in its form. The openings in the diaphragm are three: one, quadrilateral, in the tendinous centre, at tlie union of the right and middle leaflets, for the passage of the inferior vena cava and a In'anch of the phrenic nerve; a muscular opening of an elliptical shape formed by the internal pillars of the crura, the uisophageal, for the transmission of the (esophagus and piieumogaatric nerves; a third, the aortic, formed by a tendinous arch thrown from the tendon of one crus to that of the other. Tlie latter opening is the largest, lowest, and most jjos- terior of the three; it is bounded behind by the vertebral column, and gi\'es passage to the aorta, vena azijgos major, and thoracic duct. The great splanchnic nerve passes through the diaphragm Ijetween the internal and middle pillar of the crus ; the lesser splanchnic nerve escapes between those fibres of the external pillar wliich pi'o- ceed from the ligamentuin arcuatmn internum. The s>'mpat]ietic chain passes into the abdomen beneath the ligamentum arcuatum internum, and the vena azygos minor passes from the al)domen to the tlrorax through the left crus of tlae diaphragm. The diaphragm forms a dome, the con-^'exity of which is directed towards the thorax and the concavity towards the abdomen ; the right lialf lises to a higher level tlian the left, in consequence of Ijeing puslied upwards by the liver, and the central leaflet of the tendon is lower than the top of either half of the dome. During life, the level of the diaphragm varies with respiration and Avith the condition of the organs ; after death the top of the right half of the dome reaches to about a level with the lower border of the fourth rib, tlie left half to the upper edge of the fifth rib, and the central leaflet corresponds to the junction of the xiphoid cartilage with the sternum. Relations.—By its superior surface with the pleurae, pericardium, Jieart, and lungs. By its inferior surface with the peritoneum ; on the left with the stomach and spleen ; on the right with the con- vexity of the liver ; behind with the kidneys, siipra-renal cap- sules, duodenum, and solar plexus. By its circumference with the ensiform cartilage, ribs, intercostal muscles, and vertebral column. Nerve-supply.—The phrenic nerve, derived from the third, lOUrth. and Hftli f.Hrvir-nl