798 MAMMARY GLANDS. muuerous papilloa, which are large on tlie laljia minora, smaller on the clitoris, and is invested by a squamous epithelium. On the internal surface of the labia majora, on the lalna minora, an-l occasionally around the meatus urinarius and entrance of the vagina, there exist sebaceous glands ; wliile on the vestilnde, around tin- meatus urinarius and around the enti'ance of the vagina, there is an abundance of racemose mucous glands, opening on the surface of the membrane by shorter and longer ducts. Vessels and Nerves.—The external organs of generation an; abundantly supplied with arteries, chiefly by the internal pudic ; they terminate in a deep and superficial capillary plexiis, as in othei- mucous membranes. Valentin has described helicine arteries in the clitoris. The veins returning the blood from the ca]Hllaries form a rich j)lexus, which is especially abundant in the bulbi vestibuli ol Kobelt. The lymphatics are numerous, and communicate parti}- with the inguinal and partly with the pelvic glands. The nerv<:s are derived partly from the hypogastric plexus and partly from the sacral plexus. MAMMARY GLANDS. The mammae are situated in the pectoral region, and are sepa- rated from the pectoralis major muscle by a thin laj^er of superficial fascia. Their base is somewhat elli^jtical, the long diameter corre- sponding with the direction of the fibres of the pectoralis major muscle ; and the left mamma is generally a little larger than tlii' right. Near the centre of the convexity of each mamma is a small pro- minence of the integument, called the nipple (mammilla), which is surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In females of fair complexion before impregnation, the colour of the areola is a delicate pink ; after impregnation, it enlarges and assumes a brownisli hue, which deepens in colour as pregnancy advances ; and after the birth of a child, the brownish tint continues through life. The areola is furnished with a number of sebaceous glands, which secrete a peculiar fatty substance for the protection of the delicate integument around the nipple. During suckling these glands increase in size, and have the appearance of suiall pimple.s, IDrojecting from the skin. At this period the}^ serve by their secre- tion to defend the nipple and areola from the excoriating action of the mouth of the infant. In strudiire, the mamma is a compound racemose or conglomerate gland, consisting of lobes, lobules, and gland-vesicles. The lobes, from 15 to 25 in number, have each a separate system of lobules and gland-vesicles, and a distinct excretory duct; hence, the mamma may be regarded as being composed of a number of separate glands, their excretory ducts converging to the nipple, and terminating at its extremity by distinct apertures. The lobes are irregular in size and form, flattened, and bounded by rounded angles ; they are made