lEIS. 625 (sinus circnlaris iridis) ; it communicates witli the venous trunks of tlie choroid, and by the spaces of Fontana with the anterior chamber of the aqueous. This canal seems to be more constant in the lower animals than in man, and has been observed to be very large in the negro ; its place is frequently taken by several small veins. The iris (iris, a rainbow) is so named from its variety of colours in different individuals ; it consists of muscular and fibrous tissue with pigmentary cells, the latter being interspersed through- out the tissues, as well as forming a distinct posterior' layer. "The colour of the iris depends on the quantity and arrangement of the pigment cells ; when the cells are in small quantity they are chiefly confined to the poste- rior layers, and the iris as seen from the front has a blue colour ; but when in greater quantity, they are also dispersed through the tissues, and a grey or broAvn colour is the result. By its outer edge the iris is con- nected with the choroid and sclerotic ; by its inner it forms the boundary of a circular opening ca'lled the jmpil; its anterior surface looks towards the cornea and is free ; its posterior, looking towards the ciliary processes and lens, is in contact with them throiighout greater part of its extent. The stroma of the iris consists of fibres of connective tissue intermixed with cells, the former being arranged radially towards the pupil and circularly near the outer margin. The cells are very numerous, and for the most part much l:)ranched ; many of them contain pigment, both in the body of the cell and in the processes. The muscular tissue is of the unstriped variety. It consists of two sets of fibres, one of which is disposed circularly roimd the aper- ture of the pupil, so as to form a sphincter, the contraction of which will diminish the size of the opening; the other set is gathered into numerous bands which radiate from tlie pupillary margin to the circumference, aud serve by their contraction to dilate the pupil. The pigmentary layer, situated on the posterior surface of the iris, is of a deep purple tint, and hence lias received the name of uvea (like a grape); it is continuous with the inner layer of the choroid. It consists of deejily pigmented polygonal cells, and is 2 R Pic 359-- Anterior segment of a transverse section of tlie globe of the eye, seen from within. I. Divided edge of the three tunics : sclerotic, clioroid(the dark layer), and retina. 2. Pupil. 3. Iris, the surface presented to view in tliis section being the uvea. 4. Ciliary processes. 5. The scalloped anterior border of the retina.