BRANCHES OF PROFUNDA FEMORIS. 439 the original course of the artery around the thigh, pierce the vastus externus, and anastomose with branches of the ischiatic, internal circumflex, and superior per- forating arteries. The external circumflex sup- plies the muscles of the anterior and outer side of the thigh. The internal circumflex artery winds around the inner side of the neck of the femur, passing between the pectineus and psoas, and over the upper border of the adductor bre^sds to the tendon of the obturator externus, which it accompanies to the space between the quadratus femoris and upper border of the adductor magnus. While on the obturator externus it gives off a branch wliich is distributed to that muscle, the adductor brevis, and gracilis, and anastomoses with the obturator artery. It next gives off an articular branch, which enters the hip-joint through the notch in the acetabulum; and terminates in several branches which inosculate with the is- chiatic, external circumflex, and superior per- forating arteries. The superior perforating artery passes back- wards near the lower border of the pectineus, pierces the adductor brevis and magnus near the femur, and is distributed to the posterior mus- cles of the thigh ; inosculating with the circum- Hex, ischiatic, and middle perforating arteries. The middle perforating artery pierces the tendons of the adductor breads and magnus, and is distribiited like the superior ; inosculat- ing with the superior and inferior jDerforating. From this branch is given off the nutrient artery of the femur. The inferior perforating artery is given off below the adductor brevis, and pierces the ten- don of the adductor magnus, supplying it and the flexor muscles, and inosculating with the middle perforating artery above, and the articular branches of the popliteal below. It is through the medium of the Tjranches of the profiuida which inosculate above with branches of the internal iliac, and below with those of the pop- liteal artery, that the collateral circulation is maintained in the limlj after ligature of the femoral artery. Tlie muscular branches are given oft" by the femoral artery throughout the wliole of its course. They supply the muscles in immediate proximity with the arterv, particularly those of the Fin. 268.—Scheme of profmida feaioris ar- tery. 1. Quadratus femoris. 2. Obturator extei-nus. 3. Psoas. 4. Pectineus. 5. Ad- ductor brevis. 6. Ad- ductor longus. 7. Adductor magnus. 8. Common femoral artery. 9. Profunda femoris. 10. Internal circumflex, n. Supe- rior perforating. 12. Middle perforating. 13. Inferior perforat- ing. 14. Termination of profunda. 15. Oval opening in adduotoi' magnus. 16. Anasto- motica magna.