417 BRANCHES OF THE THORACIC AORTA. Plan of. the Relations of the Thoracic Aorta. In Front. Left pulmonary artery, Left bronchus, Pericardium, (Esophagus. Behind. Vertebral column. Vena azygos minor. Branches.—The branches of the thoracic aorta are as follows :— The pericardiac arteries are a few small and irregular branches distributed to the pericardium. The BRONCHIAL ARTERIES, generally three in number, one for the right lung, and two for the left, vary both in size and origin ; the right often proceeding from a short trunk common to it and one of the left bronchial branches, or from the first aortic inter- costal. They take their course to the back of the root of the lung, and accompany the ramifications of the bronchial tubes through its substance, giving twigs also to the bronchial glands, oesophagus, and pericardium. The (ESOPHAGEAL ARTERIES, four or five in number, arise from the anterior part of the aorta, and are distributed to the oeso- phagus, establishing a chain of anastomoses along that tube : the superior inosculate with the bronchial arteries, and with oesophageal branches of the inferior thyroid arteries ; the inferior with similar branches of the phrenic and gastric arteries. The posterior mediastinal arteries are small twigs distributed to the lymphatic glands and areolar tissue of the posterior medias- tinum. The INTERCOSTAL arteries arise from the posterior part of the aorta ; they are nine in number at each side, the upper two inter- costal spaces being supplied by the superior intercostal branch of the subclavian. The right intercostals are longer than the left, on account of the position of the aorta. They ascend somewhat obliquely from their origin, and cross the vertebral column behind the thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and sympathetic nerve, to the intercostal spaces ; the left passing beneath the superior intercostal vein, vena azygos minor, and sympathetic. In the intercostal space, Pericardiac, Bronchial, CEsophageal, Posterior mediastinal, Intercostal.