NASAL BONES. BONES OF THE FACE. The face is composed of fourteen bones—namely, Two nasal, Two palate. Two superior maxillary. Two inferior turbinated. Two lachrymal. Vomer, Two malar. Inferior maxillary. NASAL BONES. The nasal are two small quadrangular bones, forming by their union the bridge and l)ase of the nose. They are convex on their outer surface, and pierced by a foramen for a small vein ; on the inner surface they are somewhat concave, and marked by a groo^'e which lodges the nasal branch of the ojihthalmic ner^'e. The siiperior ])order is narrow and thick ; the inferior broad, thin, and irregular. The anterior border, thick above and thin below, articulates with the bone of the opposite side. The external border is thin and irregular ; it is bevelled at the exj)ense of the inner surface above, and of the outer sui'face below, and articulates with the nasal process of the superior maxillary. Development.—By a single centre for each bone, ossification com- mencing in the seventh week. Articulations.—AVith four bones : frontal, ethmoid, nasal, and superior maxillary. Attachment of Muscles.—It has in relation with it the pyrami- dalis nasi and compressor nasi ; but neither is inserted into it. SUPERIOR MAXILLARY BONES. The superior maxillary are the largest bones of the face, with the exception of the lower jaw ; they form, by their imion, the whole of the upper jaw, and assist in the construction of the nose, orbit, cheek, and palate. Eacli bone is divisible into a body and four processes. The body is triangular in form, and hollowed in its interior into a large cavity, the antrum maxillare (antrum of Highmore). It presents for examination four surfaces, external or facial, internal or nasal, posterior or zygomatic, and superior or orbital. The external or facial surface forms the anterior part of the Fig. io8.—Nasal bone of the left side ; its external or convex surface, i. Suf)erior border. 2. Internal or mesial border. 3. External border. 4. Inferior or free border. 5. Fora- men for a small vein.