CERVICAL PLEXUS. 565 completes the arch of communication with the first nerve ; and two descending branches, which form loops with corresjooncling branches of the third nerve. The anterior cord of the third cervical nerve, double the size of the preceding, divides at its exit from the invertebral foramen into several branches, some of which are distributed to the rectus major, longus colli, and scalenus medius, wliile others communicate and form loops Avith the second and fourth nerves. The anterior cord of the fourth, cervical nerve, eqvial in size with the preceding, sends twigs to the rectus major, longus colli, and leva- tor anguli scaj)ul£ie, communicates with the third, and sends a small brancli downwards to the fifth nerve. Its principal branches pass downwards and outwards across the j)osterior triangle of the neck, towards the clavicle and acromion. The anterior cords of the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth cervical nerves will be described with the brachial plexus, of which they form a part. CERVICAL PLEXUS.—The cervical plexus is constituted by loops of communication between the anterior divisions of the first four cervical nerves. The plexus lests on the levator anguli scapulae, posterior and middle scalenus, and splenius colli muscle, and is covered by the sterno-mastoid and jjlatysma. The branches of the cervical plexus may be arranged into super- ficial and deep :— C Superficialis colli. Ascending, < Auricularis magnus, ( Occipitalis minor. iAcromial, Clavicular, Sternal. ( Communicating branches, j)Qgp _ _ ) Communicans cervicis, j Muscular, ' Phrenic. The superficialis colli is formed by communicating branches from the second and third cervical nerves ; it curves around the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and crosses obliquely behind the external jugular vein to the anterior border of that muscle, where It pierces the deep cervical fascia and divides into an ascending and a descending brancli. The ascending branch passes upwards to the submaxillary reo-ion and divides into four or five filaments, some of which pierce the platysma myoides, and supply tlie integument as high as the chin and lower part of the face; while others form a plexus with the mtramaxillary branches of the facial nerve beneath the platysma One or two filaments from this branch accompany the external jugular vein. The descending branch pierces the platysma, and is distributed to Superficial .