CARPUS. and its palmar surface broad and convex. The proximal articulating surface is usually convex, and the distal concave. SCAPHOID.—This bone is named from bearing some slight resem- blance to the shape of a boat, being broad at one end, and narrowed like a prow at the opposite ; concave on one side, and convex on the other. If carefully examined, it will be found to present proxi- mally a large convex articular surface, which fits into the outer part of the cupped extremity of the radius ; distally it is bluntly pointed, and has two smooth surfaces, divided by a slight ridge, for articula- tion, the outer with the trapezium, and the inner with the trapezoid. Its internal (ulnar) surface is concave, and presents two articular facets, one shallow and crescentic for the semilunar, the other circu- lar and deeply excavated for receiving the head of the os magnum. The proximal portion of the palmar surface is depressed and concave ; the distal portion is raised above the level of the rest of the bone, forming a marked prominence called the tubercle, to which the an- terior annular ligament is attached. The dorsal surface is convex from side to side, contracted from above downwards, and grooved for the attachment of ligaments. The external surface is narrow, non-articular, and rough for the attachment of fibres of the external lateral ligament. Recognition.*—To ascertain the hand to which the bone belongs : —^liold it with the tubercle upwards, and the smooth, convex, proxi- mal surface directed backwards ; the narrow, non-articular, external surface will point to the hand to which the bone belongs. Articulations.—With five bones : radius, semilunar, trapezium, trapezoid, and os magnum. Attachment of Muscles.—No muscles are attached directly to this bone. SEMILUNAR.—This bone may be known by its crescentic figure. The dorsal surface is narrow and flat, the palmar broad and rounded. The other surfaces are all articular ; they are as follows :— The proximal, large and convex, occupies the second depression on the inferior articulating surface of the radius ; the distal, concave, articulates with the head of the os magnum ; the external, crescentic, corresponds with a like surface on the scaphoid ; and the internal, nearly circular, articulates with the cuneiform, and by a small bevelled edge with the unciform. Sometimes it articulates also with the unciform, in which case the last-named articulating sur- face is divided into two parts by a slight ridge. Recognition.—If the bone be held with the broad palmar sur- face upwards, and the convex proximal articulating surface directed backwards, the crescentic articular facet will point to the appro- priate hand. * In referring each bone to its appropriate baud the same system is to be followed throughout the series ; it consists in placing the bone in the position it occupies in the hand, namely with the narrow palmar surface upwards, and the proximal surface (usually convex) lookmg backwards; the outer surface then point^ to the side to which the Done belongs.