464 SUPERIOK VENA CAVA. The right innominate or brachio-cephalic vein, about an inch and a quarter in length, lies superficially and externally to the in- nominate artery, and descends almost vertically to unite with its fellow of the opposite side in the formation of the superior cava. It lies superficial to and on the right side of the arteria innominata, and has on its outer side the pleura and apex of the right lung. At the junction of the jugular and subclavian vein it receives from l)ehind the ductus lymphaticus dexter, and lower down it has open- ing into it the right internal mammary, right superior intercostal, and right inferior thyroid vein. The left innominate or brachio-cephalic vein, consideraljly longer than the right, extends almost horizontally across the roots of the three great arteries arising from the arch of the aorta to the right side of the mediastinum, where it unites with the right innominate vein, to constitute the superior vena cava. It is in relation in front with the left sterno-clavicular articulation, remains of the thymus gland, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and first piece of the sternum. At its commencement it receives the thoracic duct which opens into it from behind, and in its course is joined by the left inferior thyroid, left mammary, and left superior intercostal vein. It also receives some small veins from the medias- tinum and thymus gland. There are no valves in the innominate veins, SUPERIOR VENA CAVA. The superior cava is a short trunk about three inches in length, formed by the junction of the two innominate veins. It descends perpendicularly on the right side of the arch of the aorta, and entering the pericardium terminates in the upper part of the right auricle. It is in relation in front with the pericardium ; behind Avith the right pulmonary artery; internally with the ascending aorta and innominate artery; externally with the pleura and right phrenic nerve. It receives small mediastinal and pei icardiac veins, and, immediately before entering the pericardium, is joined by the vena azygos major. It has no valves. INFERIOR VENA CAVA, WITH ITS FORMATIVE BRANCHES. The external iliac vein lies to the inner side of the correspond- ing artery at the os pubis ; on the right side it gradually gets behind Fig. 282.—Veins of the trunk, i. Right internal jugular. 2. Left internal jugular. 3.'Right external jugular. 4. Left external jugular. 5. Right innominate vein. 6. Left innominate. 7. Right superior intercostal vein. 8 and 12. Left superior intercostal veins, g. Thymic vein. 10. Left internal mammary vein. 11. Peri- cardial and mediastinal veins. 13. Vena cava superior receiving vena azygos rnaior. 14. Left bronchus. 15. Vena azygos majox-. 16. Superior vena azygos minor". 17. Quadratus lumborum. 18. Inferior vena azygos minor. 19. Vena cava inferior. 20. Abdominal aorta. 21. Right common iliac artery. 22. Com- municating lumbar vein. 23. Right common iliac veui. 24. Left common iliac artery. 26. Left common iliac vein.