OKBITAL MUSCLES. 235 surface of the globe of the eye. By its under surface with the perios- teum of the floor of the orbit, and inferior oblique muscle. Nerve-supply.—Inferior division of the third nerve. The RECTUS INTERNUS, the thickest and shortest of the straight muscles, arises from the common tendon, and from the fibroxis sheath of tlie optic nerve ; and is inserted into the inner surface of the globe of the eye at two lines from the margin of the cornea. Kelations.—By its internal surface with the optic nerve, adipose 'tissue of the orlnt and eyeball. By its outer surface with the perios- teum of the orbit; hj its upper harder with the anterior and pos- terior ethmoidal vessels, nasal and infra-trochlear nerves. Nerve-supply.—Inferior division of the third nerve. The RECTUS EXTERNUS, the longest of the straight muscles, arises by two heads, one with the origin of the superior rectus, from the margin of the optic fora- men ; the other partly from tlie common tendon, and partly from the lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure ; the nasal, third, and sixth nerves and oiDhthalmic vein passing between them. It is inserted into the outei' surface of the globe of the eye, a little more tlian two lines from the mar- gin of the cornea. Relations.—By its inter- nal surface with the third, nasal, sixth, and optic nerves, ciliary ganglion and nerves, ophthalmic artery and vein, adipose tissue of the orbit, inferior oblique muscle, ancl eyeball. By its external sur- face with the periosteum of the orbit and lachrymal gland ; by the upper border with the lachrymal vessels and nerve. Nerve-supply.—The sixth nerve. The recti nuiscles present several characters in common ; thus, they are thin, liave each the form of an isosceles triangle, bear the same relation to the globe of the eye, and are inserted in a similar manner into the sclerotic, at about two lines from the circumference ot the cornea. The points of difterence relate to thickness and length ; the internal rectus is the thickest and shoi'test, the external the longest, and the superior the most tliin. Tlie insertion of the tour recti into the globe of the eye forms a tendinous expansion, whicli IS continued as far as the margin of the cornea, and is tei-med tumca albugmea. The OBLIQUUS SUPERIOR (trochlearis) is a fusiform muscle ar^slnsr from the margin of the optic foramen, and from the fibrous Fin. 183.—JIuscles of tlie eyehall; the view is taken from the outer side ofjche right orbit. I. Levator palpebrse. 2. Superior oblique. 3. Superior rectus. 4. Cut outer end of the external rectus. 5. The two heads of origin of the external rectus. 6. Optic nerve. 7. Internal rectii.s. 8. Inferior rectus, g. Inferior oblique.