461 VEINS OF THE UPPER ARMS. times crosses the clavicle and connects this vein with the external jugular. The median vein is intermediate in position between the ante- rior ulnar and radial veins ; it begins at the wrist by the junction of branches from the palm of the hand, and collects the blood from the anterior aspect of the forearm, com- municating with the radial and anterior ulnar. At the bend of the elbow it receives a branch from the deep veins, and divides into two branches, the median cephalic and median basilic. The median cepha- lic vein, longer and somewhat smaller than the median basilic, passes obliquely owt- wards, in the groove between the biceps and supinator longus, to unite with the radial and form the cephalic vein. The branches of the external cutaneous nerve pass behind it. The median basilic vein, larger than the median cephalic, passes obliquely inwards, in the groove between the biceps and pronator radii teres, and joins the basilic vein. This vein is crossed by one or two filaments of the internal cutaneous nerve, and overlies the l)rachial artery, from which it is separated by the semilunar fascia of the biceps. AXILLARY VEIN.—The axillary vein is formed by the union of the vense comites of the brachial artery with the basilic vein. It lies to the inner side of the artery, receives numerous branches from the collateral veins of the branches of the axillary artery, and at the lower border of the first rib becomes the subclavian vein. Above the pectoralis minor it receives the cephalic vein. SUBCLAVIAN VEIN.—The subclavian vein crosses the first rib beneath the clavicle, and unites with the internal jugular vein to form the innominate vein. It lies at first in front of the sub- clavian artery, and then in front of the scalenus anticus, which sepa- rates it from that vessel. The phrenic and pneumogastric nerves pass between the artery and vein. The veins opening into the sub- FiG. 279.—Veins of the forearm and bend of the elbow, i. Radial vein. 2. Cephalic vein. 3. Anterior ul- nar vein. 4. Posterior ulnar vein. 5. The trunk formed by their union. 6. Ba- silic vein, piercing the deep fascia at 7. 8. Median vein, g. Communicating branch betvireen the deep veins of the forearm and the upper part of the median vein. 10. Median cephalicvein. 11. Median basilic. 12. Position of the brachial artery. 13. The semilunar fascia of the biceps. 14. External cutaneous nerve. 15. Intern;il cutaneous nerve. 16. Intevcosto - humeral nerve. 17. External cutaneous branch of the musculo - spii'al nerve.