ORGAN OF VISION. 628 Fig, 362.—Cells of the pars ciliaris retina;. continued forwards over the ciliary processes to the base of th(- iris, some peculiar, elongated, nucleated cells, constituting the furn ciliaris retince. In the fresh eye the retina is of a pale pink colour, and is translucent, but it soon becomes opaque and yellowish, especially •when in contact with fluids. At the back part of the retina, nearly in the axis of the eye, is a spot of a golden-yellow colour-— macula lutea (called by Soemmering lirnhis liUeus) ; it is elliptical in form, with a long diameter of about ^2 of an inch, and short diameter of an inch. In the middle of this is a depression, fovea centralis, where, the retina being thinned, the pigmentary matter of the choroid is seen through ; hence it has the appear- ance of being a fora- men, and was so de- scribed by Soemmering. This is the most sensi- tive spot of the retina, and being placed nearly in the axis of the eye, receives the image of that part of an object to which the eye is directed, and of which the most vivid impres- sion is obtained. About of an inch to the inner .side of the macula is the entrance of the optic nerve. Here there is a slight elevation (colliculus nervi optici), Avith a cupped centre, perforated by the arteria centralis retinae ; the artery ujDon entering imme- diately breaking up into branches. This is the only part of the retina from which the power of vision is absent. The retina is thickest pos- teriorly, in the immediate vicinity of the optic nerve, where it has a thickness of jJu of an inch, but it thins as it passes forwards, and near tlie ora serrata measures only o>,o of an inch. Structure.—On the outer surface, the retina is formed by a single layer of hexagonal cells loaded with pigment, and constituting tlu' Fig. 363.—Vertical section of the coats of the eye at the point of entrance of the optic nerve, d. Retina, c. Choroid. /. Sclerotic, g. Outer sheath of the optic nerve, h. Fibres of the optic nerve, i. Cen- tral artery of the retina, k. Its point of subdivision. I. Lamina eribrosa. Fio. 364.—Bacillary layer of the retina, seen from tlieouter surface, i. In the yellow spot. 2. In the neighbourhood of the yellow spot. 3. Near the ora ser- lata.