ULNAR ARTERY. 414 of the deep palmar arch ; they pass forward upon the interosseous muscles, and inosculate with the digital branches of the superficial arch, opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones. The perforating branches, three in number, pass directly back- wards between the heads of the dorsal interosseous muscles, and inosculate with the dorsal interosseous arteries. The recurrent branches of the deep palmar arch pass upwards in front of the wrist-joint, and inosculate witli the arterial arch I'ormed by the anterior carpal arteries. ULNAR ARTERY. The ulnar artery, the other and larger division of the brachial, crosses the forearm obliquely, to the commencement of its middle third ; it then runs down the ulnar side of the forearm to the wrist, crosses the annular ligament into the hand, and forms the superficial palmar arch which terminates by inosculating with the superficialis. volae. Relations.—In the upper or oblique portion of its course it lies upon the brachialis anticus and flexor profundus digitorum, and is covered in by the superficial layer of muscles of the forearm and median nerve. In the second part of its course, it is placed upon the flexor profundus and pronator quadratus, lying between the flexor carpi uinaris and flexor sublimis digitorum. While crossing the annular ligament it is protected from injury by a strong tendinous arch, thrown over it from the pisiform bone ; and in the palm it rests on the origin of the muscles of the little finger, and the tendons of the flexor sublimis, being covered in by the palmaris brevis muscle and palmar fascia. It is accomi^anied in its course by the venae comites, and is in relation with the ulnar nerve for the lower two- thirds of its extent, the nerve lying to its ulnar side. Plan of the Relations of the Ulnar Artery. In Front. Superficial and deep fascia, Superficial layer of flexor muscles, Median nerve. In the Hand. Tendinous arch from the pisiform bone, Palmaris brevis muscle, Palmar fascia. Inner Side. Flexor carpi uinaris, Ulnar nerve (lower two- thirds). Behind. Brachialis anticus, Flexor profundus digitorum, Pronator quadratus. Ulnar Artery. Outer istdc. Flexor sublimis digi- torum.