509 LATERAL VENTRICLES. small and tapering, and communicates with the choroid plexus of the opposite ventricle, through a large oval opening, the foramen of Monro, or foramen commune anterius. This foramen may be seen by pulling slightly on the plexus, and pressing aside the septum hicidum with the "handle of the knife. It is situated between the under surface of the fornix and the anterior extremities of the thalami optici, and forms a communication transversely between the lateral ventricles, and perpendicularly with the third ventricle. The choroid plexus presents on its surface a number of minute vascular processes, which are termed villi. They are covered bv an epithelium consisting of a single layer of nucleated polygonal Fig. 304.—Lateral ventricles of the cerebrum, t, i. The two hemispheres cut down to a level with the corpus callo- sum so as to constitute the centrum ovale majus. 2. Genu of the corpus callosum. 3. Splenium ; the interme- diate portion forming the roof of the lateral ventricles has been removed. 4. Part of the septum lucidum, showing an interspace be- tween its layers, tlie fifth ventricle. 5. Anterior cornu of one side. 6. Commence- ment of the middle cornu. 7. Posterior cornu. 8. Inter- ventricular nucleus of cor- pus striatum. 9. Tenia semi- circularis. 10. Thalamus op- ticus. II. Choroid plexus. This plexus communicates with that of the opposite ventricle through the fora- men of Monro ; a bristle is passed through this opening (under figure 4), and its ex- tremities are seen resting on the corpus striatum at each side. The figure 11 rests on the edge of the fornix, on that part of it which is called corpus fimbriatum. 12. Fornix. 13. Commencement of the hippocampus major. The rounded oblong body, directly behind figui-e 13, is the jjes accessorius, and farther back, imme- '. diately under figure 7, the hippocampus minor. cells, which are ciliated in the embryo, but the cilia are absent in the adult. Besides the nucleus the cells contain numerous yellow granules and one or two dark oil-drops ; and, according to Heiile, give off from their angles spine-like processes, wliicli are connected \vith the bed of homogeneous areolar tissue on which they rest. The chief arteries of the choroid jilexxises enter at the lower ex- tremity of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle ; others enter it from behind by passing beneath the splenium of the corpus callosum ; the veins terminate in the veins of Galen. The corpus fimbriatum is a narrow white band, situated inter- nally to the choroid plexus, and extending with it into the descend- ing cornu of the lateral ventricle. It is, in fact, the lateral thin