DEEP CERVICAL FASCIA. internal surface^ below the clavicle, with the pectoralis major and deltoid ; in the neck with the trapezius, sterno-maHtoid, external jugular vein and deep cervical fascia ; on the face, with the parotid gland, masseter, facial ai'tery and vein, buccinator, depressor angiili oris, and depressor labii inferioris. Nerve-supply.—Its upper part by the facial, its lower by the supei'ficial cervical. Dissection.—The platysma is now to be removed, commencing in front and turning it backwards towards the spine ; great care must be taken not to cut the branches of the superficial cervical plexus, or the external jugular vein which lies beneath it. The deep cervical fascia will now be exposed, and must be carefully studied. The deep cervical fascia is a strong areolo-fibrous membrane which invests the muscles of the neck, and retains and supports tlie vessels and nerves. It commences posteriorly at the ligamentum nuchoe, and passes forwards at each side beneath the trapezius Fif;. 187.—Transverse section of the neck, showing the deep cervical fascia and its prolongations forming sheaths for the muscles, i. Platysma myoides. 2. Trapezius. 3. Liga- mentum nuchas. 4. The point at which the fascia divides to form the sheath for the sterno-mastoid (5). 6. The point of reunion of the two layers. 7. The point of union of the fascia of opposite sides of the neck. 8. Sterno-hyoid. 9. Omo-hyoid. 10. Sterno-thyroid. 11. Lateral lobe of the thyroid gland. 12. Trachea. 13. ffisophagus. 14. Carotid sheath. 15. Longus colli. The nerve in front of the sheath of this muscle is the sympathetic. 16. Rectus anticus major. 17. Scalenus anticus. iS. Scalenus medius. 19. Splenius capi- tis. 20. Splenius colli. 21. Levator angiili sca])uliE. 22. Coraplexus. 23. Trachelo-mastoid. 24. Transver- salis cervicis. 25. Cervicalis ascen- dens. 26. Semi-spinalis colli. 27. Multifidus spinae. 28. Cervical vertebra. muscle to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid ; here it di^ddes into two layers, which embrace that muscle and unite upon its anterior border to be prolonged onwards to the middle line of the neck, where it is continuous with the fascia of the opposite side. Besides constituting a sheath for the stei'no-mastoid, it also forms sheaths for the other muscles of the neck over which it ]-»asses. If the superficial layer (anterior layer) of the sheath of the sterno- mastoid be traced'upwards, it will be found to pass over the parotid (Tland and masseter muscle (fascia parotideo-masseterica), to be in- serted into the zygomatic arch ; traced downwards, it will be seen to pass to the front of the clavicle, to which it becomes attached. If the deep layer (posterior layer) of the sheath be examined supe-