OCCIPITAL BONE. 88 line is another transverse ridge, tlie ivferior curved line, and beneath the hitter the foramen magnum. On eacli side of tlie foj-anien magnum, nearer its anterior than its posterior segment, and encroaching some- what upon the opening, is an ol)long ai-ticuhir sui'face, the condyle, for ai'ticulation with the atlas. Tlie condyles appi-oach towards eacli other ante)'iorly, their articular sui-faces looking downwards and outwards. Directly Ijehind each condyle is an ii-regular fossa, and, sometimes, a small opening, the posterior condylar foramen, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In'front of tlie condyle is the anterior condylar foramen, transmitting the hypoglossal nerve ; on the outer side of each condyle, a projecting ridge, the transverse or jayular process, excavated in front hy a'notcli {jucjtdar notch) which forms part of the jugular foramen ; and directly l)ehind the ridge, and forming its posterior boundary, a prominent process, the jugular tubercle. In front of the foramen magnum is a thick scpiare mass, Fig. 93.—External surface of the oc- cipital bone. I. Superior curved line. 2. Exteinal occipital pro- tuberance. 3. External occipital ciest. 4. Inferior curved line. 5. Foramen magnum. 6. Condyle of the ripht side. 7. Posterior condylar fossa, in which the pos- terior condylar foramen is found. 8. Anterior condylar foramen con- cealed by the margin of the con- dyle. 9. Transverse process; this proce.=s on tlie internal surface of the bone forms the jugular eminence. 10. Jugular notch, forming part of the jugular fora- men. II. Basilar process. 12. Rough projections into which the odontoid ligaments are inserted. the basilar process, and in its centre a small tubercle, the pharyngeal tubercle or spi^ie, for the attachment of the tendinous raphe and superior and middle constrictor muscles of the pharynx. Internal Surface.—The internal surface is concave from side to side and from above downwards ; it is'divided by a crucial ridge into four fossEe, the two superior or cerebral fosste lodging the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, the two inferior or cerebellar, the lateral lobes of the cerebellum. The superior arm of the crucial ridge is grooved for the superior longitudinal sinus, and gives attachment to the falx cer ebri; the inferior arm is sharp and prominent for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and slightly grooved for the two occipital sinuses. The transverse ridge gives attachment to the tentorium cerebelli, and is deeply grooved for the lateral sinuses At the point of meeting of the four arms is a projection, the mtcrnal occipital protuberance. The convergence of the four grooves forms a slightly depressed fossa (usually situated to the right of the internal