70 APPENDAGES OF THE SKIN. called the hair follicle. It is wide in its deepest part where it contains the Ijulb, gets narrower at the entrance of the ducts of the sel)aceous glands, and again widens as it nears the surface. Its wall consists of two distinct layers, called respectively the external iind internal sheath of the follicle, the former being continuous with the corium, and the latter with the epidei-inis. The external or dermic sheath is formed in its outer layers of longitudinal bundles of connective tissue, in Avhich corpuscles are found, but no elastic fibres ; internally it is distinguishalde as a transparent homogeneous meml)rane, which corresponds to the basement membrane support- ing epithelium in otlier tissues. The internal or ejndermic sheatli adheres closely to the root of the hair, and generally comes away with the latter when it is pulled out; hence it is called the root- sheath. It is also described as composed of an outer and an inner layer. The outer root-sheath corresponds to the rete mucosuni of tlie epidermis, and is com^DOsed of soft polygonal nucleated cells, which in the coloured races are generally pigmented ; these cells become continuous at the bottom of the follicle with those forming the hair bull). The inner root-sheath is again divisible into an inner layer (Huxle//s sheath), formed of flattened, polygonal nucleated cells, two or three deep ; and an outer layer (Henle's sheath) of oblong, flattened cells, without nuclei. On the inner surface of the inner root-sheath is a thin stratum of imbricated scales, closely applied to the surface of the hair, and forming the cuticle of the root-sheath. Connected Avith the hair follicles there are some fine bands of un- striped muscular fibre. These arise from the superficial part of the corium, and are inserted into the out- side of the lower part of the folhcle, below the sebaceous gland. They are placed on the side towards which the hair slopes, and by their contraction erect the hair; hence they have re- ceived the name of erectores pili. The colour of the hair is due to pigment dejiosited in the central cells. The SEBACEOUS GLANDS are em- bedded in the substance of the derma, and present every degree of com- plexity, from the simplest follicle to the com])ound loljulated gland. In some situations their excretory ducts open independently on tlie surface of the epidermis ; but for the most part they terminate in the follicles of the hairs. The sebaceous glands associated Avith the haiTS are racemose and lobulated, consisting of glandular vesicles lined with polyhedral or s])heroidal cells; the central cavity of the gland is occupied by round cells containing fat, mixed The gland vesicles, b. Excretory duct. c. The follicle of a downy hair. d. Shaft of the latter.