MUSCLES OF THE THOEAX. and by their insertion, by distinct tendons, into the ribs and spinous processes. Being made np of a number of distinct fasciculi, which act alternately, the sjiine is kept erect without fatigue, even when the muscles have to counterbalance a corpiilent abdomen. The continuations upwards of these muscles into the neck preserve the steadiness and uprightness of that region. When the muscles of one side act alone, the neck is rotated on its axis. The complexus, l)eing attached to the occipital bone, draws the head backwards, and counteracts the muscles of the anterior jDart of the neck. It assists also in the rotation of the head. The semi-spinalis and multifidus spina; muscles act directly on the vertebrae, and contribute to the general action of supporting the vertebral column erect. The four little muscles situated between the occiput and the first two vertebrae, effect the various movements between these bones ; the recti producing the antero-posterior actions, the obliqui the rota- tory motions of the atlas on the axis. The actions of the remaining muscles of the spine, the rotatores spince, interspinales and inter-transversales, are expressed in their names. They approximate their attachments, and assist the more powerful muscles in preserA-ing the erect position of the body. MUSCLES AND FASCI.E OF THE THORAX. The principal muscles situated on the front and sides of the thorax l^elong in their actions to the upper extremity, with which they will be described. They are the pectoralis major and minor, subclavius and serratus magnus. The true thoracic muscles, which appertain exclusively to the actions of the ribs, are the— External intercostals, Subcostals, Internal intercostals, Triangularis sterni. Levatores costiirum. The intercostal muscles are two planes of muscular and tendinous fibres directed obliquely between adjacent ribs and closing the inter- costal spaces. They are seen partially on the reflection of the pec- toral muscles, oi- on the inner surface of the chest. The triangularis sterni IS within the chest, and requires tlie removal of the anterior part of the thorax to luring it into view. FASCiyK.—A thin layer of fascia covers the external surface of the external intercostal, and the inner surface of the internal muscle and a still finer layer is interposed between them. The surface layers l)ecome thicker in front, where the external intercostal is aencient, and behind, Avhere the internal intercostal is wanting The EXTERNAL INTERCOSTALS, eleven on each side, commence posteriorly at tlie tul^ercles of the ribs, and advance forwards to the costal cartilages, where they terminate in a thin anoumii-nsis (nv.fP.rrnr