DEPRESSORS OF THE HYOID BONE AND LARYNX. 253 1 orders lie in contact along the middle line, and the muscles are sometimes marked by a tendinous intersection at their lower part. Some of the fibres of this muscle are continued directly into the ihyro-hyoid without intervening attachment; others are ^continuous w i'th the inferior constrictor. Relations.—By its external surface with the sterno-hyoid, omo- hvoid, and sterno-mastoid muscle ; by its internal surface, with the trachea, inferior-thyroid veins, thyroid gland, lower part of the larynx, sheatli of the common carotid artery and internal jugulai' vein, subclavian vein, vena innominata, and on the right side, arteria innominata. The middle thyroid vein lies along its innei' border. N erve - supply.—D escendens cervicis. Tlie THYRO-HYOID is the continuation upwards of the sterno- thyroid muscle. It arises from the oblique line on the thyroid car- tilage, and is inserted into the lower Iwrder of the body, and great cornu of the os hyoides for one-half its length. Relations.—By its external surface witli the sterno-hyoid and omo-liyoid muscle ; by its internal surface with the great ala of the; thyroid cartilage, thyro-hyoid membrane, and superior laryngeal artery and nerve. Nerve-supply.—A special branch of the hypoglossal. The OMO-HYOID (aj/ioy, shoulder) is a double-bellied muscle passing obliquely across the neck from the scapula to the os hyoides ; it forms an obtuse angle behind the sterno-mastoid, and is retained in that position by a process of the deep cervical fascia which forms a sheath for its tendon and holds it in connection with tlie sternum and first rib. It arises from the iipper liorder of the scaj)ula and transverse ligament of the suprascapular notch, and is inserted into the hyoid bone at the junction of the body and great cornu. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the traj)ezius, sub- clavius, clavicle, deep cervical fascia, platsyma myoides, sterno- mastoid, and integument. By its deep surface the brachial plexus, scaleni muscles, phrenic nerve, sheatli of tlie common carotid artery and jugular A'ein, descend ens cervicis nerve, sterno-thyroid and thyro-hyoid muscle, and the sterno-hyoid at its insertion. Nerve-supply. —Descendens cervicis. Actions.—The four muscles of this group are depressors of the hyoid bone and larynx, the three former drawing these parts downwards in the middle line, and the two omo-hyoid muscles regulating their traction to the one or other side of the neck, accord- ing to tlie position of the head. The omo-hyoid muscles, by means of tlieir connection with the deep cervical fascia, are rendered tensors of that portion of the deep fascia which covers the lower part of the neck, between the two sterno-mastoid muscles. The thyro- hyoid muscles, Ijy approximating the hyoid bone to the thyroid cartilage, relax the hyo-epiglottic ligament, and ]lermit the epiglottis to fall down over the aperture of the larynx during deglutition (G. Buclianan).