GLOSSARY OF ANATOMICAL TERMS. 8l2 Lyra (Lat. lyra, a lyre). The name given to that part of tlie fornix which presents the appearance of some white lines somewliat re- sembling the strings of a lyre. Maceration (Lat. macerare, to make soft by steeping). The steeping of a body for some time in water, spirit, ether, wine, or vinegar, for purposes of softening. Malar (Lat. mala, the cheek). Belonging to the cheek. Malleolar (Lat. malleolus, dim. of malleus, a liammer), A term applied to two projections of bone which overhang the ankle-joint. Malleus (Lat. malleus, a hammer). The hammer bone, one of the small bones of the ear. Masseter (Gk. /xaa-adofxai, I chew). One of the chief muscles of masti- cation. Mastoid (Gk. fxacrros, a brea.st, and eUos, like). A prominence which resembles the nipple of the breast. Maxillary (Lat. maxilla, the cheek bone). Belonging to the jaws. Meatus (Lat. meatus, a passage). A passage. Mediastinum (Lat. medius, middle, and sto, I stand). The space left between the two pleural sacs in the cavity of the thorax. Medulla (Lat. medius, middle). Marrow, situated in the middle of the bones. Membrane (Lat. memhvana, the skin of an animal). A thin substance lining a cavity. Meninges (Gk. /uriviy^, a membrane). The membranes of the brain. Menstruation (Lat. menstrua, pi. of menstruus, a monthly allowance). The periodical discharge from the female generative organs of a bloody fluid poured out by the inner surface of the uterus. Mental (Lat. mentum, the chin). Belonging to the chin. Mesentery (Gk. /JLeaos, middle, and kvrepov, an intestine). The membrane which suspends the small intestines from the posterior wall of the abdomen ; a reflection of the peritoneum. Mesial (Gk. ^aeo-os, middle). In the middle line. Meso- (Gk. fx^aos, middle). A term compounded with other words to attach the meaning of middle to these words. Meta- (Gk. /j-erd, beyond). A Greek preposition prefixed to anatomical terms to convey the idea of farther distance, as in metacarpus, beyond the carpus. Mitosis (Gk. /xtVos, a thread). Cell-division preceded by peculiar changes in the nucleus. The same as karyokinesis. Modiolus (Lat. modiolus, the nave of a wheel). The central osseous column of the cochlea. Molar (Lat. mola, a millstone). Grinding teeth. MoNS PUBIS (Lat. mens, a mountain, and puhes, one of the bones of the pelvis). The pad over the pubes in the female. Muciparous (Gk. /xv^a, the mucus of the nostrils, and j>urire, to produce). Producing mucus. Mucus (Gk. fiv^a, the mucus of the no-strils). The liquid secreted by mucous membrane. Mylo-hyoid (Gk. a millstone). Attached to the lower jaw (part of the mill), and the hyoid bone. ■ Myolemma (Gk. ynOs, a muscle, and Xenjxa, a membrane). A delicate sheath investing the ultimate fibrils of muscular tissue.