536 CRANIAL NERVES. nerve passing in front and the spinal accessory nerve behind it, and the last opposite the first or second lumlmr vertebra. Below tliis point the liganientum denticnlatuin is lost in the filum terminale of the pia mater. The denticulatioiis do not pierce the arachnoid, ljut are covered by funnel-like prolongations of that memljrane. The use of this meml^rane is to maintain the position of the spinal cord in the midst of the (iuid by whicli it is sui'rouuded. CEANIAL NEEVES. The PAIRS of cranial nerves are nine or twelve in nundjer, ac- cording as the arrangement of Willis or Soemmering is adopted. The following table shows their numbering according to both systems, and also gives the names by which the several nerves are known :— Name. Olfactory. Optic. Ocnlo-motor. Pathetic or trochlear. Trifacial or trigeminal. Abducens. Facial. Auditory. Glosso-pharyngeal. Vagus. Spinal accessory. Hypoglossal. In the following description we shall follow the arrangement of Soemmering, as being that most commonly adopted by anatomi>i~ at tlie present time. FIRST PAIR.—OLFACTORY, The olfactory tract is more truly a lobe or offshoot of the brain than a cranial nerve ; it arises by three roots : an inner or short root from the inner and posterior part of the anterior lobe close to the substantia perforata ; a middle root from a papilla of grey matter {tuber olfadorium), embedded in the under surface of the frontal lobe, and an external or long root, which may be traced as a white streak along the fissure of Sylvius into the temporo-sphenoidal lol)o. The nervous cord formed by the miion of the three roots is soft in texture, prismoid in shape, and embedded in the olfactor}' sulcus ou the under surface of each anterior lobe of the brain, lying between the pia mater and arachnoid. As it passes forward it increases in breadth, and swells at its extremity into an oblong mass of grey and Willis. First. Second. Third. Fourth. Fifth. Sixth. Seventh Eighth. Ninth. ( portio I portio Soemmering. First. Second. Third. Fourth. Fifth. Sixth, dura. Seventh, mollis. Eighth. ( Ninth. I Tenth. ( Eleventh. Twelfth.