MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 242 fasciculus draws downwards tlie columna nasi. Tlie levator labii superioris alaj([ue nasi lifts the upper lip with the ala of the nose, and expands the opening of the nares. The levator labii superioris propi'ius is the proper elevator of the ujjper lip : acting singly, it draws tlie lip a little to one side. The levatoi' proprius, ana still more the levator alse nasi, is brought into play in the expression of contempt or derision. The levator anguli oris lifts the angle of tlie mouth and draws it inwards, while the zygomatici pull it upwards and outwards, as in laughing, and produce the dimple in the cheek. In the movement of laughter the zygomatici are assisted by the risorius Santorini. 7. Inferior Labial G-roup.— Depressor labii inferior is, Risorius Santorini, Depressor anguli oris. Levator labii inferioris. Dissection.—To dissect the inferior labial region, continue the incision already made along the margin of the lower jaw to its angle. Dissect off the integument and superficial fascia from this surface, and the muscles of the inferior labial region will be exposed. The DEPRESSOR LABII INFERIORIS (quadratas menti) arise.-- from the oblique line by the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and passing upwards and im^^ards, is inserted into the orbicularis muscle and integiiment of the lower lip. Its inner fibres interlact' with those of the opposite muscle; the outer fibres reach nearly hi the angle of the mouth. This muscle is very thin, and pale in colour, and its fibres ^re mixed with a considerable quantity of fat, so that it is very difficult to make a good dissection of it. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the platysma myoides, part of the depressor anguli oris, and the integument of the chin with which it is closely connected. By the deep surface with the levator labii inferioris, labial glands, mucous membrane of the lower lip, and mental nerve and artery. Nerve-supply.—Supra-maxillary of facial. The DEPRESSOR AJJGULI ORIS (triangularis oris) is a trian- gular plane of muscle arising by a broad base from the external oblique ridge of the lower jaw just below the mental foramen, and inserted by its apex into the angle of the mouth, where it is continu- ous with the levator anguli oris, zygomaticus major, and upper segment of the orbicularis. Near its insertion it is joined by the follo\\ ing muscle. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integument; by its deep surface with the depressor labii inferioris, buccinator, and branches of the mental nerve and artery. Nerve-supply.—Supra-maxillary of facial. The RISORIUS SANTORINI is a triangular muscle, partly formed by the continuation above the jaw of fibres of the platysma mvoides, and i)artly of scattered and thin fibres arising from the fascia over the inasseter and buccinator. It converges to the angle of the niouth