7S8 KIDNEYS. ganglia. They are distrilmted to the medullary suhstance onlv, in ■which they form a rich nervous plexus. THE KIDNEYS. Tlie kidneys, the secreting organs of the urine, are situated in the luniljar regions, behind the peritoneum, and at each side of the verte- bral column, corresponding to the bodies of the last dorsal and two upper luml)ar vertebra), and extending from the eleventh ril) to near the crest of the ilium ; they approach the vertebral column Ijy theii' upper end. Each kidney is between four and five inches in length, about two inches and a half in breadth, somewhat more than one incli in thickness, and weighs about 4^ oz. in the male and ratliei' less in the female. The kidneys are usually surrounded by fat; they rest on the crura of the diaphragm, on the anterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the transversalis muscle, which separates them from the cpiadratus lumborum, and on the psoas magnus. Tlie right kidney is somewhat lower than the left, from the position of the liver ; it is in relation, by its anterior surface, with the livei' and descending portion of the duodenum, which rests against it; and is covered in by the ascending colon. The left kidney, highei' than the right, is covered, in front, l^y the great end of the stomach, the spleen, tail of the pancreas, and descending colon. The anterior surface of the kidney is convex, the posterior is fiat; the superior extremity is larger than the inferior, and is in relation with the supra-renal ca]Dsule ; the convex border is turned outwards towards the parietes of the abdomen ; the concave border looks inwards towards the vertebral column, and presents a deep notch (hilum renale), which leads to a cavity, or sinus, within the organ. In the sinv,s rcnalis are situated the vessels and nerves of the kidney and the expansion of the excretory duct called the pelvis of the kidney. At the hilum these vessels are so placed that tlie renal vein is in front of the artery, and the pelvis and ureter behind. The kidney is surrounded by a thick layer of fat, contained in the meshes of a loose areolar tissue, forming the adipose capsule, and separating the kidney at the back from the diaphragm, ante- rior layer of the fascia lumborum, and ilio-hypogastric nerve ; and internally from the edge of the psoas. Within this, the organ is enclosed "in a fibrous capsule, which is thin, firm, and whitish, and composed of dense areolar tissue intermingled with elastic fibres, and lieneath this an incomjjlete layer of unstriped muscle. The capsule is connected by its inner surface with the substance of the gland by fine areolar tissue, but so loosely as to be easily separable. The substance of the kidney is dense and fragile, and when divided by a longitudinal incision, exliibits two structures, difiertnt ui colour and texture—an external vasmlar or cortical fortion, and an internal tubular or medullary 'portion. The medullary portion consists of from eight to fifteen dark red conical nuisses, having their apices or papillae directed towards the pelvis, and their bases