LYMPHATICS OF THE VISOEEA. 2 II LIVER.—The lymphatic vessels of the liver are divisible into deep and superficial. The former take their course through the portal canals, and through the right border of the lesser omentum, to the lymphatic glands situated in the course of the hepatic artery and along the lesser curve of the stomach. The superficial lym- phatics are situated in the areolar structure of the proper capsule, over the whole surface of the liver. The lymphatics of the convex surface are divided into two sets :—i. Those which pass from before backwards ; 2. Those which advance from behind forwards. The former unite to form trunks, which enter between the folds of the lateral ligaments at the right and left extremities of the organ, and of the coronary ligament in the middle. Some of these pierce the diaphragm and join the posterior mediastinal glands ; others con- verge to the lymphatic glands situated around the inferior cava. Those which pass from behind forwards consist of two groups : one ascends between the folds of the broad ligament, and perforates the diaphragm, to join the anterior mediastinal glands, finally emptying their contents into the ductus lymphaticus dexter ; the other curves around the anterior margin of the liver to its concave surface, and from thence to the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum. The lymphatic vessels of the concave surface are variously distri- buted, according to tlieir position; those from the right lobe ter- minate in the lumbar glands ; those from the gall-bladder, which are large, and form a remarkable plexus, enter the glands in the right border of the lesser omentum; and those from the left lobe con- verge to the lymphatic glands situated along the lesser curve of the stomach. SPLEEN AND PANCREAS.-The lymphatic glands of the spleen are situated around its hilum, and those of the pancreas in the course of the splenic vein. The hjmphatic vessels of these organs consist of two sets, superficial and deep ; they pass through their respective glands, and join the aortic glands previously to terminat- ing in the thoracic duct. STOMACH.~The lymphatic glands of the stomach, of small size, are situated along the lesser and greater curve of that organ. The lymphatic vessels, as in other viscera, are superficial and deep, the former originating in the subserous, the latter in the submucous tissue; they pass from the stomach in four different directions : some ascend to the glands situated along the lesser curve ; others descend to those occupying the greater curve ; a third set pass out- wards to the splenic glands, and a fourth to the glands situated near the pylorus and to the aortic glands. INTESTINES.—The lymphatic glands of the small intestine are situated between the layers of the mesentery, in the meshes formed by the superior mesenteric artery, and are thence named mesenteric glands. These glands are most numerous and largest superiorly, near the duodenum ; and, inferiorly, near the termina- .tion of the ileum. The lymphatic vessels of the small intestines are of two kinds :