777 URETHEA. of the veru montanum. Its walls, of a yellowish-white colour, are composed of areolar and elastic tissue, mingled towards its fundus Avith unstriped muscular fibre, and it is lined within by a laminated epithelium, the surface layer being formed of flattened cells. The ejaculatory ducts take their course forward in the walls of the sinus pocularis, and terminate close to its aperture by slit-like open- ings. The veru montanum contains erectile and muscular tissue, and it is believed that its distension may prevent the semen passing I back into the bladder during emission. The membranous portion is the narrowest and most fixed part of the canal; it measures about one-fifth of an inch in diameter, and ■ is about three-quarters of an inch in length along its lower wall, i and half an inch on its upper. It extends from the apex of the pros- i tate gland to the bulb of the corpus sioongiosum, and passes through I the triangular ligament. Its coats are—the mucous membrane, cir- j cular muscular coat, and compressor urethrse muscle. The sub- 1 mucou§ tissue is richly supplied Avith vessels, and much resembles ! erectile tissue. The spongy portion, about six inclies in length, forms the rest of the extent of the canal, and is lodged in the corpus spongiosum I from its commencement at the triangular ligament to the meatus urinarius. It is narrowest in the body, and dilated at each ex- tremity, posteriorly in the bulb, where it is named the bulbous portion, and anteriorlj'- in the glans penis, where it forms the fossa navicularis. The meatus urinarius is the most constricted part of the canal; so that a catheter, which will enter that opening, may be passed freely through the whole extent of a normal urethra, i Opening into the bulbous jjortion are two small excretory ducts about an inch in length, which may be traced backwards, between I the coats of the urethra and the bulb, to the under part of the mem- i branous portion behind the triangular ligament, where they originate ' in two small, lobulated, and somewhat compressed glands, of about I the size of peas, Cowper s glands. These glands are enclosed in a thin capsule, their glandular structure being held together by areolar tissue and smooth muscular fibre ; smooth muscular fibre ; is also found as a longitudinal layer, around their excretory ducts. They are situated immediately beneath the membranous "portion ! of the urethra, and are enclosed by the lower segment of the I compressor urethrse muscle, so as to be subject to muscular com- pression. On the whole internal surface of the spongy portion of i the uretlira, and especially along its lower surface, are numerous I small openings of lacuuDe, and the apertures of mucous glands i situated in the submucous areolar tissue (glands of Littre). The openings of the lacunae are directed forwards, and are liable occa- i sionally to intercept the point of a small catheter in its passage to the 1j1 adder. At about an inch and a half from the opening of the meatus, in the upper wall of the urethra, one of the lacuna) is generally found much larger than tlie rest, and is named the lacuna magna.