'J'lJUA. TIBIA. Fig. 143.—'J'ibia and fibula of the right lofr, articulated and seen from the front. I. Shaft of . the tibia. 2. Inner tuber- osity. 3. Outer tuberosity. 4. Spinous pro- cess, s. Tu- bercle. 6. In- ternal or sub- cutaneous sur- face of the .shaft. 7. Lower extremity of the tibi:i. 8. Internal inalle- olus. g. Shaft of the fibula. 10. Its upper extremity. 11. Its lower ex- tremity, the external malle- olus. The sharp border between I and 6 is the crest of the tibia. If Tlie tibia is tlie inner and larger bone of the-leg; it is prismoid in form, and divisible into a shaft, an uppei- and lower extremity. The upper extremity, or head, is large, and expanded latei'ally into two tiiherodties. On the n])i)er surface the tu1)erosities are smooth to ai'ticulate with the condyles of the femur ; the intxn-nal articular surface being oval to correspond with the internal condyle ; the external, broad and nearly circular. Between the two articulai' stirfaces is a sinnous p'ociiss; and in front of and l)ehind the s])inous ^ process a rougli depression, giving attachment to the anterior and pos- terior crucial ligament and the two semilunar cartilages. Between the two tul)erosities on the front aspect of the bone is a })rominent ele^'ation, the tubercle for the insertion of the ligamentum patella3, and immediately above the tubei'cle a smooth facet, corresponding ^v[t\l the ljursa of the ligamentum ])atellte.- Posteriorly the tuberosities are separated by a de- pression called the po})liteal notch, Avhich gi\'es attachment to part of the posterior crucial ligament, and part of the posterior ligament of Winslow. Upon the posterior and under part of the external tuberosity is an articular surface for the head of the filnila ; and u])on the })oste- rior part of the internal tuljerosity a depression for the insertion of the tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. The shaft of the tibia presents three surfaces. The internal is con- vex, and is subcutaneous through- out its lower three-fourths; at the upper part, on a line with tlie tubercle of the tibia, it gives attachment to the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, and semi- tendinosus muscles. The external is concave, and is occupied by the tiVtialis anticus muscle ; at its lower third it curves forwards towards the front of the bone, and supports the tendons of the tibialis anticus, extensor proprius hallucis, and extensor communis di"itorum. The fosterior is grooved for the attachment of muscles. Near the upper extremity of the posterior surface is an oblique rid"e, the oblique line (pv soleal ridge), for the attachment of the 3oleus muscle and fascia of the popliteus muscle ; and immediately