246 ACTIONS OF THE MUSCLES OF MASTICATION. Fiii. 186.—The two pterygoid muscles. The zygomatic arch and the greater part of the ramus of the lower jaw have been removed in order to bring these muscles into view. i. The sphenoid he;id of the external pterygoid. 2. Its pterygoid head. 3. The internal ptery- goid. It anses from the pterygoid fossa, being attaclied to the inner sur- iace of the extei-nal pterygoid ]i]ate, and that i^art of the tuberosity of the palate Ijone wliich is interposed between the pterygoid plates ; it also gets an additional o)-igin from the angle between the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate and the tuberosity of the superior inaxillary bone. It de- scends obliipiely backwards, to be imerted into the inner surface of the angle of the lower jaw. It resembles the masseter in a])pear- ance and direction, and was named by Winslow internal masseter. Relations. — By its external surface with the external ]jtery- goid, inferior maxillary nerve and branches, internal maxillary artery and branches, internal lateral ligament, and ramus of the lower jaw. By its internal surface with the tensor palati, superior constrictor and fascia of the pharynx ; by its posterior border with the parotid gland. Nerve-supply.—Pterygoid branch of inferior maxillary. Actions.—The maxillary muscles are the active agents in masti- cation, and iovm an apparatus admirably fitted for that office. The buccinator circumscribes the cavity of the mouth, and with the aid of tlie tongue keeps the food under the immediate pressure of the teeth. By means of its connection with the superior constrictoi-, it shortens the cavity of the pharynx from before backwards, and becomes an auxiliary in deglutition. The temporal, the masseter, and the internal ptei'^^goid are the bruising muscles, drawing the lower jaw against the upper with great force. The two latter, from the obliquity of their direction, assist the external pterygoid in gi-ind- ing the food, by carrying the lower jaw forward upon the ujjper; the jaw being brought back again by the deep portion of the masseter and posterior fibres of the temj^oral. The external pterygoid muscles, when both act together, draw the jaw forwards, but more frequently they act alternately, each drawing the jaw forwards and towards the opposite side, so as to produce by their alternate action the grinding movements of the molar teeth. The internal pterygoid assists the external muscle of the same side in protracting the jaw, and throw- ing the teeth towards the opposite side. The temporal is the only muscle of mastication which retracts the jaw ; all the rest protract it. The whole of these muscles, acting in succession, produce a rotatory movement of the teeth upon each other, which, with the direct action of the lower jaw against the upper, effects the mastication of the food.