HUMERUS. 140 overarching tlie glenoid cavity. It is about two inches in length, very .strong, and give.s attachment by its tip to the biceps and coraco-braclnahs muscles, by its anterior border to the pectoralis minor, and by its posterior border to the coraco-acromial liga- ment. Near its base is a rough impression for the conoid ligament, and running forwards from this an oblique ridge for the trapezoid ligament. Development.—By seven centres ; one for the body (including the spine), two for the coracoid process, two for the acromion, one for the inferior angle, and one for the posterior border. The o.ssific centre for the body appears near the head about the seventh or eighth week, one for the coracoid process during the first year, and a second at the base of the same process in the tenth year ; the acromion process at puberty ; the inferior angle in the fifteenth vear; and tlie posterior border at seventeen or eighteen. Union betAveen the coracoid process and body takes place during the fifteenth year; the bone is not complete till after the twenty-second year. Articulations.—With the clavicle and humerus. Attachment of Muscles.—To sixteen; by its anterior surface to the subscapularis and serratus magnus; posterior surface^ supra- spinatus and infra-spinatus ; superior border, omo-hyoid ; posterior border, levator anguli scapulae, rliomboideus minor, rhomboideus major ; axillary border, long head of the triceps, teres minor, teres major ; upper angle of the glenoid cavity, long tendon of the biceps ; spine and acrnmiov, traj^ezius and deltoid ; coracoid process, pectoralis minor, short head of the biceps, and coraco-l^rachialis. The liga- ments attached to the coracoid process are, coraco-acromial, coraco- clavicular, coraco-humeral, and the costo-coracoid membrane. HUMERUS. The humerus is divisible into a shaft and two extremities. The upper extremity presents a rounded luad; a constriction immediately around the base of the head, the anatomical neck; a greater and a lesser tuberosity. The greater tuberosity is situated most externally, and is marked Ijy three facets for the insertion of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor muscles. The lesser tuberosity, placed internally, gives attachment to the tendon of the subscapularis. The tuberosities are separated by a vertical furrow, the bicipital groove, which lodges the long tendon of the biceps, and a branch of the anterior circumflex artery. The edges of this groove below the head of the bone are prominent and rough, and called the external and internal bicipital ridges; the former serves for the insertion of the pectoralis major muscle, the later for the tendon of the teres major ; at the bottom of the groove the tendon of the latissimus dorsi is inserted. The constriction of the bone below the tuberosities is the surgical