VASTUS MUSCLES. 355 : of the hip-joint, external circumflex vessels, crureus, vastus internus and externus. Nerve-supply.—Anterior crural nerve. The rectus must now be divided through its middle, and the two ends turned aside to bring clearly into view the next muscles. The VASTUS EXTERNUS arises from the upper end of the spiral line of the femur as far inwards as the external cervical tubercle, from the inferior border of the great trochanter (where that j)rocess joins the shaft of the bone), from the line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, from the outer lip of the latter as far down as its bifurcation, and from the external intermuscular septum. At the point of its attachment where it lies against the insertion of the gluteus maximus, it becomes blended with the tendon of that muscle, and where the two muscles glide over each other a bursa is interposed. The greater part of the superficial surface is aponeurotic, this being usually the case with the upper three-fourths, excepting the anterior border ; the fleshy fibres run downwards and slightly forwards, passing from the superficial aponeurosis to one situated on the deep asj)ect of the muscle and derived from the tendon of insertion. The lower fleshy fibres are more oblique than the upper ; they are inserted into a narrow thick tendon which is intimately connected with the crureus and rectus ; from this tendon fibrous expansions are given oft" to blend with similar processes derived from the other extensor muscles, and form a fibrous capsule, which passes over the lateral aspect of the front of the knee-joint and is inserted into the head of the tibia. The tendon of insertion gives off an aponeurosis which lines the deep surface of the muscle for the lower half of its extent; traced downwards the tendon is found to be imerted into the upper half of the outer border of the patella. It is often difficult to define the anterior edge of this muscle, and to distinguish its fibres from those of the crureus, but the line of separation is almost invariably indicated by the course of the ex- ternal circumflex vessels, and the nerve passing to the muscle itself. _ Relations.—By its siuperfidal surface witli tlie fascia lata, rectus, biceps, semi-membrauosus, and gluteus maximus. By its deep surface with the crureus and femur. Nerve-supply.—Anterior crural nerve. The VASTUS INTERNUS ames from the spiral line of the femur, from the internal cervical tubercle to the point where that line joins the linea aspera, and from the inner border of the latter as far as the groove for the femoral artery. As was observed with the vastus externus, the superficial portion of the muscle is chiefly aponeurotic, excepting at the lower third of the thigh, where it becomes fleshy. The fieshy fibres below the groove for the artery spring from the rounded tendon of insertion of the adductor magiius and the fibrous membrane which unites that tendon with the internal sui)racondylar line. The fibres of the vastus internus are connected at their origin with those of the adductor muscles ; they lie upon and clothe the