344 FASCIA LATA. condyle, and separating tlie vastus externus from the biceps muscle ; the internal being attached to the inner branch of the linea aspera for a short distance above the internal condyle, and separating tin; vastus internns from the adductor niagnus. The fascia lata receives the attaclinient of two muscles, tensor vagina) femoris and gluteus maximus, and glides over the trochanter major on a bursa. At the lower part of the thigh, the fascia forms a very distinct band of al)Out an inch and a half in width, ilio-tibial band, which receives tendinous fil)res from the extensor and flexor muscles of the thigh, and is inserted into the outer tuberosity of the tibia and head of tlie fibula. At the back of the knee the fascia bridges over the ])Opliteal space, the longitudinal fibres being strengthened by numei'ous trans- verse fasciculi. In addition to the smaller openings in the fascia lata which transmit the small cutaneous vessels and nerves, there exists at the upper and inner ex- tremity of the thigh an oval opening, which gives passage to the superficial lymphatic vessels and the large sub- cutaneous vein of the lower extremity, the internal saphe- nous vein, and is thence named the saphenous opening. Thr existence of this opening has given rise to the division ot the upper part of the fascia lata into two portions, an iliac portion and a pubic portion. The iliac portion is situated upon the iliac side of the open- ing. It is attached to the crest of the ilium, and along Pou- part's ligament to the spine of the pubes, whence it is re- flected downwards and out- wards in an arched direction, and forms a falciform border (falciform process of Burns), which constitutes the outer boundary of the saphenous opening.' The edge of this border immediately overlies, and is adherent to, the sheath of the femoral vessels, and the lower extremity of the curve is continuous with the pubic portion. The pubic portion, occupying the pubic side of the saphenous opening, is attached to the spine of the pubes and pectineal line ; Fio. 235.—Crural sbeath laid open. a. Middle cutaneous nerve, c. Placed to the inner side of Gimbernat's ligament, d. Iliac portion of fascia lata. e. Pubic portion of fascia lata. /. Margin of saphenous opening (turned bacli). k. Femoral sheath opened by three incisions. I. Saphena vein.