LATISSIMUS DOKSI. 271 it from the erector spinse. The anterior border of the cervical portion forms the posterior houndary of the posterior triangle of the neck. Its clavicular insertion sometimes advances to the middle of the clavicle, or as far as the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and occasionally it has been seen to overlap the latter. This is a point to be borne in mind in the operation for ligature of the sub- clavian artery. The spinal accessory nerve passes beneath the anterior border, near the clavicle, previously to its distribution to the under surface of the muscle. Nerve-supply.—Spinal accessory, and third and fourth cervical. The ligamentum nuchas is a band composed of white fibrous tissue extended from the tubercle and spine of the occipital bone I to the spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra, where it I is continuous with the supraspinous ligament. It is connected with the spinous processes of all the cervical vertebra, excepting the atlas, by means of a series of small fibrous slips ; and is the liomologue of an important elastic ligament in animals. The LATISSIMUS DORSI muscle covers the whole of the lower part of the back and loins. It arises from the spinous processes of the six inferior dorsal, and all the lumbar vertebrae, from the I supraspinous ligament, spinous tubercles of the sacrum, posterior third of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and four lower ribs ; the latter origin taking place by muscular slips, which in- digitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The fibres from this extensive origin convei'ge as they ascend, and cross tlie inferior angle of the scaj)ula ; they then curve around the lower border of the teres major muscle, and terminate in a short f[uadi'ilateral tendon, which gets in front of the tendon of the teres, and is inserted into the l)icipital groove of the humerus. The tendinous origin of the muscle is united by its under surface with the posterior lamella of the fascia lumborum. A synovial bursa is interposed between its upper border and the lower angle of the scapi;la, and another between the upper half of its tendon and that of the teres major ; the two tendons being united in- I feriorly. The muscle frequently receives a small fasciculus from ' the scapida as it crosses its inferior angle ; its tendon also gives ' off fil)res to the deep fascia of the u])per arm. In many instances, a muscular slip arises from the edge of the : latissimus where it forms the posterior fold of the axilla, and cross- I ing the axillary artery terminates by joining the under surface of Ithe pectoralis major, or the coraco-bi-achialis. This is called the : musculus axillaris (dorsi-axillaris of Macalister). At the upper border of the latissimus is a small triangular I interval {triangle of Glarh), bounded above by the lower border of Uhe rhomboideus major, within by the trapezius, and below by the latissimus dorsi ; in this space the ribs and intercostal muscles are seen to l)e uncovered by the muscles of the back. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the integunient and superHcial fascia, and with the trapezius. By its deej^ surface, from