i8i JIOVEMENTS OF JOINTS. accom])aiiied by wbat is known as coaptation, that is, tlie successive apjjlication of clilferent jiarts of an articular surface to its fellow, in tlie manner of a wheel rolling on the ground. This is well seen in tlie motion of the imtella on the condyles of the femur. 2. Angular movement maybe performed in four different direc- tions, either forwards and backwards, as in flexion and extension ; or inwards and outwards, constituting adduction and abduction. Flexion and extension are illustrated in the ginglynioid joint, and exist in a large proportion of the joints of the body. Adduction and abduction, conjoined with flexion and extension, are met with coiii- lilete only in the most movable joints, as the shoulder, hip, and thumb. In the wrist and ankle, adduction and abduction are only jiartial. 3. Circumduction is most strikingly exhibited in the shoulder and hip joints ; it consists in the slight degree of motion which takes ]ilace between the head of a bone and its articular cavity, Avhile the extremity of the limb is made to describe a large circle on a ])lane surface. It is also seen, but in a less degree, in the carpo-metacarpal articulation of the thumb, and the metacar230-j)lialangeal articulation of the fingers and toes. 4. Rotation is the movement of a lione on its own axis, and is illustrated in the hip and shoulder, or better, in the rotation of the cu]-) of the radius against the eminentia cajjitata of the humerus. Rotation is also observed in the movements of the atlas u]ion the axis, where the odontoid process serves as a pivot around which the atlas turns. AETICULATIOIsTS. The joints may be arranged, according to a natural division, into those of the trunk, those of the upper extremity, and those of the lower extremity. LIGAMENTS OF THE TRUNK. The articulations of the trunk are divisible into eleven groups namely:— » 1 ) 1. Of the vertebral column. 2. Of the atlas, with the occi])ital bone. 3. Of the axis, with the occii)ital bone. 4. Of the atlas, with the axis. 5. Of the lower jaw. 6. Of the ribs, with the vertebra). 7. Of the costal cartilages, A\'ith the sternum, and w ith each other. 8. Of the ribs, with the costal cartilages. 9. Of the sternum. 10. Of the vertebral column, with the pelvis. 11. Of the pelvis.