781 TESTICLES. into the substance of tlie organ. If a transverse section of the testicle be made, and the surface of the mediastinum examined, it will be observed that the blood-vessels of the substance of the organ are situated near the posterior border of the mediastinum, while the divided ducts of the rete testis occupy a place nearer the anterior margin. The whole internal surface of the tunica albuginea is covered by a plexus of minute blood-vessels, which also extends on to the septa derived from the mediastinum ; this layer is sometimes described as the tunica vasculosa. The substance of the testicle consists of numerous conical flattened lobules, the bases being directed towards the surface of the organ, and the apices towards the mediastinum. Krause found between four and five hundred of these lobules in a single testicle. Each lobule is invested by a distinct sheath formed of two layers, one being derived from the tiinica vasculosa, the other from tlie tunica albxiginea. The lobule is comj)osed of from one to three minute tubuli, tubuli seminiferi,* exceedingly con- voluted, anastomosing fre- quently with each other near their extremities, terminating in loops or in free csecal ends, and of the same diameter, of an inch (Lauth), through- out. The tubuli seminiferi become less convoluted in the apices of the lobules, and ter- minate by forming between twenty and thirty small straight ducts of about twice the diameter of the tubuli seminiferi, the vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the substance of the medias- tinum, and terminate m Fig. 480. — Ana- tomy of the testicle, i, i. Tunica albu- ginea. 2, 2. Me- diastinum tes- tis. 3, 3. Lobuli testis. 4,4.Vasa recta. 5. Rete testis. 6. Vasa efferentia, of which six only are represented in this diagram. 7. Coni vascu- losi, constitut- ing the globus major epididy- mis. 8. Body of the epididy- mis. 9. Globus minor epididy- mis. 10. Vas deferens. 11. Vasculum aber- rans. from seven to thirteen ducts, smaller in diameter than the vasa recta. These ducts pursue a waving course from below upwards through the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum ; they communicate freely with each other, and constitute the rete testis. At the upper extremity of the medias- tinum, the ducts of the rete testis terminate in from nine to thirty sniall ducts, the vasa efferentia,+ which form by their convolu- tions a series of conical masses, the coni ■vasculosi; from the bases o f^l'^*"^ estimates the whole number of tubuli seminiferi in each testicle at 840 r"^*^-3 inches. According to this calculation, the entire length of the tubuh .semmiferi would be lE ' o ^"liiic o feet. t Each vas efferens with its cone measures, according to Lauth about 8 inchp.? The entire length of the tubes composii.g the epididymis, according to the same authority, is about 21 feet