413 EADIAL ARTERY. carpal space between the index and middle finger. At the cleft of the fingers it inosculates with the palmar digital artery, and gives off dorsal collateral branches. It is joined by a perforating branch from the deep palmar arch which reaches it by passing between the heads of tlie second dor- sal interosseous muscle. The dorsales poUi- cis are two small branches which run along the sides of the dorsal aspect of the thumb. The dorsalis indicis is a very small branch which runs along the radial border of the metacarpal bone and phalanges of the in- dex finger. The princeps poUi- cis (arteria magna pol- licis), the great artery of the thumb, passes along the metacarpal bone of the thumb, between the first dor- sal interosseous (ab- ductor indicis) and flexor brevis pollicis to the base of the first pha- lanx ; and, between the two heads of the latter muscle, in the groove of the tendon of the flexor longus, it divides into two collateral branches for the palmar borders of the thumb. The radialis indi- cis, the digital branch of the radial side of the index finger, is directed inwards, between the first dorsal interosseous muscle and flexor brevis and adductor polhcis, to the side of the finger, along which it runs, ibrmihg Its radial collateral artery, and anastomosing with the digital branch from the superficial arch. Near its origin it gives off a small branch (more frequently a direct branch of the radial), which inosculates with the superficial palmar arch, and often also eftects a communication with the artery of the thumb. The palmar interosseous, "three or four in number, are branches Fig. 258.—Arteries of the forearm. I. Biceps. 2. Inner condyle of humer- us with the hu- meral origin of the pronator radii teres and flexor carpi radialis di- vided across. 3. Deep portion of pronator radii ter- es. 4. Supinator longus. 5. Flexor longus pollicis. 6. Pronator quadra- tus. 7. Flexorpro- fundusdigitoium. 8. Flexor carpi ul- naris. g. Annular ligament with the tendons passing beneath it into the palm of the hand ; the figure is placed on the tendon of the palmaris lon- gus, divided close to its insertion. 10. Brachial artery, II. Anastomotica magna. 12. Radial artery. 13. Radial recurrent. 14. Su- perfieialis volae. 15. Ulnar artery. 16. Superficial pal- mar arch. 17. Princeps pollicis and radialis indi- cis. 18. Posterior ulnar recurrent. 19. Anterior inter- osseous. 20. Poste- rior interosseous, passing through the interosseous membrane.