PANCREAS. 751 circular in direction. The internal or mucous coat is but loosely attached to the fibrous layer ; it is everywhere raised into minute rug£B, which give it a beautifully reti- culated appearance. It is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the common bile duct, with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. It is coated on its surface with a columnar epithelium. At the neck the gall-bladder becomes narrowed, much bent on itself, forming an S-like curve, and passes into the cystic duct; in the interior the reticular folds become modified so as to form seven or eight oblique ridges, liaving much the appear- ance'of a spiral valve, so as to check the outflow of the bile. These folds are called der. 2. Cystic duct. 3. valves of Heister. J'^^l^^ of Heister. 4^ Hepatic „, . . , , 1 , . T 1 duct. 5. Common bile duct. The cystic duct, about an inch and a half in length, runs downwards and backwards to join the hepatic duct and form the common bile duct. Vessels and Nerves.—The gall-bladder is supplied with blood liy the cystic artery, a branch of the hepatic. Its veins return their liiood into the portal vein. The nerves are derived from the hepatic plexus. THE PANCREAS. The pancreas is a long, flattened, conglomerate gland, analogous to the salivary glands. It is about six inches in length, and between three and four ounces in weight; is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, behind the stomach, and rests on the aorta, portal vein, inferior vena cava, the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and the left kidney and supra-renal body, opposite the first lumbar vertebra. After the abdominal cavity has been laid open, the pancreas may be displayed in one of three ways :— (i) By cutting through the lesser omentum and drawing the stomach downwards ; (2) by cutting through the great omentum and dis- placing the stomach upwards ; and (3) by cutting through the trans- verse meso-colon. A glance at the diagram of the reflections of peritoneum (Fig. 409) will enable the student to understand how the pancreas is reached by each of these incisions. The pancreas is divided into a body, a greater and a smaller extremity ; the great end or head is placed towards the right, and surrounded by the curve of the duodenum ; the lesser end or tail extends to the left as far as the spleen. The anterior surface of the body of the pancreas is covered by the ascending posterior layer of peritoneum, and is in relation with the stomach, the first portion of the duodenum, and the commencement of the transverse arch of the