FEMORAL ARTERY. 436 versalis and iliac fascia. If the slieath be opened at Ihis point the ai'teiy ha seen in contact with the outei- wall of the sheath. 'The The vein lies next the artery, being separated from it by a fibrous septum, and between tlie vein and the inner wall of the sheath, and divided from the vein by anothei- thin fibrous septum, is a triangulai- in- terval, femoral oi- crural canal, into which the sac is pvo- truded in femoral hernia. This space is occupied in the normal state of the parts by loose areo- lar tissue, and by lymphatic vessels wliich pierce the inner wall of the sheath to make tlieir way to a gland, situ- ated in the femoral or crural ring (see Fig. 235). Relations.— The ui^ljer third of the femoral artery is superficial, being covered only by the integument, in- guinal glands, and sui^erficial and deep Ifascia. The lower two-thii'ds are cov- rered by the sartorius muscle. To its outer dde the artery is in relation with the psoas, and vastus internus muscles, and with the femoral vein at the upper part of the thigh. Behind, it rests on the inner border of the psoas ; it is next separated from the pectineus by the femoral vein, profunda vein and artery, and then lies on the adductor longus to its termination ; near the lower border of the adductor longus it is placed in an aponeurotic sheath or canal, called Hunter's canal, formed by an arch of tendinous fiT)res, thrown from the Ijorder of the adductor longus and the bordei' of the opening in the adductor magnus, to the sid(^ of the vastus internus. To its inner side it is in relation at its Fig. 267. — Anterior and inner aspect of tlie thigh, with tlie femoral artery, i Lower part of the tendon of the exter- nal oblique muscle. 2. External abdomi- nal ring. 3, 3. Upper and lower part of the sartorius muscle: its middle portion being removed. 4. Rectus. 5. Vastus internus. 6. Patella. 7. Iliacus and psoas. 8. Pectineus. o. Ad- ductor longus. 10. Hunter's canal. 11. Adductor magnup. 12. Gracilis. 13. Ten- don of the semi-ten- diuosus. 14. Femo- ral artery. 15. Su- perficial circumflex iliac artery. 2. Su- perficial epigastric artery. 16. The two external pudic ar- teries, superficial and deep. 17. Pro- funda ai'tery, giving off (18) its external circumflex br.mch; and lower down the three perforating. A small bend of the internal circumflex artery (8) is seen be- liind the inner mar- gin of the femoral, just below the deep external pudic artery. 19. Theauas- tomotica magna, de- scending to the knee, upon which it rami- fies (6).