S88 SACKAL NERVES. lumbar nerve, conjoined with a branch from the fourth, constitutes the lumbo-sacral nerve, which descends over the base of the sacrujn into the pelvis, and assists in forming the sacral plexus. Immedi- ately before it joins the first sacral, it gives off the superior gluteal nerve, but this nerve is, notwithstanding, usually described as a branch of the sacral plexus. The connection of the nerves of the i)lexus with the anterioi- divisions of the lumbar nerves, may be most simply expressed in a tabular form, as follows :— Ilio-hypogastric Ilio-inguinal Genito-crural . External cutaneous . Anterior crural Obturator Lumbo-sacral . SACRAL NERVES. There are five pairs of saciul nerves; the first four escape from the vertebral canal through the sacral foramina, the last between the sacrum and coccyx. The posterior sacral nerves are small, and diminish in size from above downwards; they communicate with each other by means of anastomosing Ioojds immediately after their escape from the j)Osterior sacral foramina, and divide like the other spinal nerves into external and internal branches. The external branches pierce the gluteus maximus, to which they give filaments, and are distributed to the integument of the posterior part of the gluteal region. The internal branches suj^ply the multitidus sjjincB muscle and the integument over the sacrum and coccyx. The anterior sacral nerves diminish in size from above down- wards ; tlie first is large, and unites with the lumbo-sacral nerve; the second, of equal size, unites with the first; and the third, scarcely one-fourth so large as the second, joins with the two preceding nerves in the formation of the sacral plexus. The fourth sacral nerve divides into two branches, one of which assists in forming the sacral plexus ; the other separates into three branches : a communicating branch, to unite with the fifth sacral nerve ; a visceral branch, to join with the hypogastric plexus and supply the bladder and prostate gland, and in the female the vagina ; and a muscular branch, which sends filaments to the levator ani and coccygeus, and a hmnorrhoidal branch to the sphincter ani and integument behind the anus. The fifth sacral nerve, issuing from between the sacrum and coccyx, pierces the coccygeus muscle, and receives the communi- cating branch from the fourth ; it then communicates with the coccygeal nerve, and piercing the coccygeus a second time, is distri- buted to the integument over the dorsal surface of the coccyx. I. I. I, 2. 2, 3- 2, 3, 3, 5-