HEART. 662 ining membrane stretching across the mouth of the coronary sinim ind preventing the reflux of blood in the vein during contraction of he auricle. It is msuflicient to close the opening when the walls of by chordfB tendiiieaj. h. The "long moder.itoi- band." i. The two cohimnw carneaj of the right curtain, k: Attachment by cliordfe tendineas of the left limb of the anterior curtain. I, I. Chordaj tendineaj of the "fixed curtain " of the valve, m. Valve of tlie pulmonary artery. The letter of reference is placed on one of the posterior semilunar segments. «. Apex of left appendix auriculas, n. Left ven- tricle, p. Ascending aorta, q. Its transverse j)ortion, with the three aitcrial trunks which arise from the arch. r. Descending aorta. the heart are relaxed, but is quite competent during their conti'ac- tion, as the opening then becomes narrowed. The annulis ovalis is .situated on the septum auricularum, oppo- site the termination of the inferior cava. In the fcotus it formed the margin of an oval opening (foramen ovale) by which the two auricles communicated. In tlie adult the annulus is commonly incomplete below. The fossa ovalis is an oval depression corresponding with the foramen ovale of the fd'tus. This opening is closed at birth by a thin valvular layer, which is continuous with the left margin of the annulus, and is frequently imperfect at its upper pai-t. The depres- sion or fossa in the right auricle results from this arrangement. There is no fossa ovalis in the left auricle. Fio. 385.—Anatomy of the heart: right side. i. Cavity of riglit auricle. 2. Appendix jiuriculse ; in its cavity are seen the musculi pcctiuati. 3. Superior vena cava, opening into the upper part of right auricle. 4. Inferior vena cava. 5. Fossa ovalis; the pro- minent ridge surrounding it is the annulus ovalis. 6. Eustachian valve. 7. Opening of the coronary i-inus. 8. Coronary valve. 9. En- trance of tlie auiiculo-ventricular opening. Between the figures i and 9, two or three foramina The- besii are seen. a. Riglit ventricle. b, c. Cavity of right ventricle, on tlie walls of which the columna; carnese are seen ; c is placed in the channel leading upwards to the pulmonary artery, d. c, f. Tricuspid valve; e is placed on theanterior curtain,/on the right curtain, g. Mu.sculus papillaris, to the apex of which theanterior and right curtain are connected