CEREBELLUM. CEREBELLUM. Tlie cei'ebelluiii, less than one-eighth the weight of tlie cerebrum, is situated beneath tlie occipital lobes, being lodged in the posterior fossa of the base of the ci-aniuni, and protected from tlie superin- cumbent pressure of the cerebrum by the tentorium cereljelli. Like the cerebrum, it is composed of grey and white substance, the former occupying the surface, the latter tlie interior, and its surface is formed of pai'allel lamella) separated by suhd, and here and there by deeper sulci. In form, the cerebellum is oblong and flattened, its greater diameter being from side to side, its two surfaces looking upwards and downwards, and its borders being anterior, posterior, and lateral. In consideration of its shape the cerebellum admits of a division into two hemispheres, into certain prominences termed processes and lobules, and into certain divisions of its substance called lobes, formed upon the hemispheres by the deeper sulci above refeii-ed to. On the anterior border of the organ there is a semilunar notch, incisura cerebelli anterior, which embraces the corj^ora quadrigemina. On the posterior border there is another notch, incisura cerebelli posterior, which receiA^es the upper part of the falx cerebelli; and on the under surface of the cerebellum is a deep fissure corre- sponding with the medulla oblongata, and termed the val- lecula (valley). Each hemisj^here of the cerebellum is divided by means of a fissure which runs along its free border into an upper and a lower portion, and upon each of these portions cer- tain lobes are marked out. Thus on the Fig. 308.—Under surface of cerebellum, the amygdalae upper portion there having been removed, i. Medulla oblongata. 2. Pons ^j.q ^-^yo SUCh lobeS, Varolii ^. Choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle. 4. ,-i , • . •„„ Floccuius s. Biventral lobe of cerebellum. 6. Nodulus the anterior SUpeHor of inferior vermiform process. 7. Uvula. 8. Posterior or quadrate lobe, and medullary velum. 9. Pyi-amid. 10. Slender lobe. 11. \}^q r)OSterior superior Posterior inferior lobe. ^^^^f ^^^^ ^^^^^^^ portion of the hemisphere there are three such lobes, namely, the posterior inferior lobe, the slender (gracilis) lobe, and the biventral lobe; and two smaller ones, the tonsil (amygdala), situated at the side of the vallecula, and the flocculus (pnewnogastric lobe), placed behind and below the middle peduncle of the cerebellum. The central mass connecting the two hemispheres is called the worm (vermis) ; its upper aspect projects above the general level of