340 MUSCLES OF THE PALM. of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the Imse of the liiM phalanx of tlie little finger, and into the expansion of the exteiisoi' tendon. Relations.—By it.s su-perfidal surface with the internal portion of the deep fascia and palniaris brevis ; by its deep surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi and inetacarpal bone. By its inner border with the flexor In-evis minimi digiti. Nerve-supply.—Ulnar nerve. The FLEXOR BREVIS MINIMI DIGITI is a small muscle arising from the unciiorm bone and annular ligament, and inserted into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger in connection with the preceding muscle. It is sometimes wanting. Relations.—By its suj)erficial surface with the internal portion of Fig. 233.—Muscles of the hand, i. Annular hgament. 2, 2. Origin and insertion of the abductor pollicis muscle; tlie middle por- tion has been removed. 3. 'Flexor ossis metacarpi, or opponens polli- cis. 4. Superficial portion of the flexor bievis pollicis. 5. Deep portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 6. Adductor pollicis. 7, 7. The lumbricales muscles, arising from the deep flexor tendons, upon whic^i tlie figures are placed. The tendons of the flexor sublimis have been removed. 8. One of the ten- dons of the deep flexor, passing' between the two terminal slips oi the tendon of the flexor sublimis to reach the last phalanx, g. The tendon of the flexor longus polli- cis, passing between the two por- tions of the flexor brevis to the last phalanx. 10. Abductor minimi digiti. II. Flexor brevis or op- ponens minimi digiti. The edge of the flexor ossis metacarpi is seen projecting beyond the inner border of the flexor brevis. 12. Pisiform bone. 13. First dorsal intero.sseous muscle, the abductor indicis. the palmar fascia, and palmaris brevis. By its deep surface with the flexor ossis metacarpi and metacarpal bone. Externally with the abductor minimi digiti, from which it is separated near its origin by the deep palmar branch of the ulnar herA^e and communicating artery. Internally with the tendons of the flexor sublimis and profundus. Nerve-supply.—Ulnar nerve. The FLEXOR OSSIS METACARPI or OPPONENS MINIMI DIGITI cerises from the unciform bone and annubir ligament, and is inserted into the whole length of the metacarpal bone of the little finger on its ulnar border. Relations.—By its superficial surface with the flexor brevis and