73° SMALL INTESTINES. colon. The transverse portion is also behind the peritoneum, being situated behind the two layers of the transverse meso-coloii. The rest of the small intestine is completely invested by it, except- ing along the concave border, to which the mesentery is attached. MUSCULAR COAT.—The muscular coat of the small intestine i- composed of two planes of unstriped muscular fibres, external (jv longitudinal, and internal or circular. The muscular coat is thicker in the duodenum and jejunum than in the ileum ; the longitudinal fibres are most numerous along tlit- free border of the intestine ; and the circular fibres are more (>i less oblique in direction. At the termination of the ileum tlic circular fibres are continued into the two folds of the ileo-caecfd valve, while the longitudinal fibres pass onwards to the largi- intestine. SUBMUCOUS COAT.-—The submucous or areolar coat is a moderately thick stratum of areolar tissue which sustains the vessels, nerve>, and glands of the mucous membrane, and connects it to the muscu- lar coat; it is thin and dense in the resophagus ; thicker and moi e distinct in the stomach ; and thicker than the other coats in the small intestine, where it is loose in texture, devoid of fat, and easily distended with air, excepting at Peyer's glands, where it is closely adherent. It is also thicker in the upper -pavt of the small intestine than below, and is one cause of the greater thickness of the duo- denum and jejunum ; moreover, it enters into the structure of tlie valvulae conniventes. MUCOUS COAT.—In the small intestine the mucous membrane is thinner than in the stomach ; it is smooth in the upper fourth of the duodenum, but raised into crescentic folds, valvulse conniventes (valves of Kerkring), in its lower three-fourths ; the valvules con- niventes being continued throughout the jejunum, and extending as far as the middle of the ileum. On the posterior and inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum i.s a longitudinal ridge or crest, plica longitudinalis, about an inch in length, caused by tlie oblique passage, through the walls of the intestine, of the common bile duct; and at the lower and most prominent ]3art of this crest is the aper- ture of termination of that duct and the pancreatic duct, Tlie valvulaj conniventes ai-e narrow at their comnieiu'e- nient, but ([uickly become larger ; and at the lower part of tlie dno- denuni and upper part of the jejunum, M'here they are lai-gest, liave a lireadth of several lines. In the lower part of the jejunum and ujiper Fig. 440.—Valvula! conniventes of tlie jejunum.