330 DEEP MUSCLES OF FOREARM. and nerve. and median nerve. Tliis muscle frequently sends a fasci- culus to the Hexor longvis pollicis or flexor jjrofundus. In the hand : its tendons, after passing beneath the annular ligament, are in relation superficially with the supei'ficial palmar arch, and palmar fascia; and deeply ■with the tendons of the deep flexor and lumhricales. Nerve-supply.—Median nerve. The FLEXOR CARPI ULNARIS arises hy two heads, one from the inner condyle anil intermuscular sejjta, the other from the ole- cranon and by means of a strong ajDoneurosis from two-thirds of the posterior border of the ulna. Its tendon is inserted into the pisiform bone, anterior annular ligament, and base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Kelations.—By its anterior surface witli the deejj fascia of the forearm, Avith which it is closely united sujieriorly. By its pos- terior surface with the flexor suljlimis digi- torum, flexor profinidus, pronator quadratus, ulnar artery, veins, and nerve. By its radial border with the palmaris longus, and in the lower third of the forearm, the ulnar vessels and nerve. The ulnar nerve, and the pos- terior ulnar recurrent artery, pass between its two heads of origin. Nerve-supply.—Ulnar nerve. Fig. 228.—Deep layer of muscles of the foi-earm. 1. Internal lateral liga- ment of the elbow-joint. 2. Anterior ligament. 3. Orbicular ligament of the head of the radius. 4. Plexor profundus digitorvim. 5. Flexor longus pollicis. 6. Pro- nator quadratus. 7. Ad- ductor pollicis. 8. Unrsal interosseous of the mid- dle, and palmar interos- seous of the ring finger. 9. Dorsal interosseous muscle of the ring finger, and palmar interosseous of the little finger. the forearm it divides Deep Layer. Flexor profundus digitorum, Flexor longus pollicis, Pronator quadratus. Dissection.—This group is brought into view by removing the flexor sublimis, and drawing aside the pronator radii teres. The FLEXOR PROFUNDUS DIGITORUM (perforans) arises from the upper two-thirds of the ulna, its anterior and inner surface and posterior border, from the inner side of the olecranon, where it is connected with the aponeurotic expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and from the ulnar half of the interosseous membrane. At the middle of into four tendons which pass beneath the