3i6 ANNULAR LIGAMENTS. the hollow of the arm-pit. Near the chest wall it i.s pierced b numerous lymjjhatic vessels, and on the outer side it is coutinuoim' with the sheath of the axillary vessels and with the deep fascia o| the arm. The deep fascia of the forearm is strong, and at tlui bend of th elbow is augmented in thickness by a broad band, which i.s given o from the innei- side of the tendon of the biceps (hicipit(tl fanria). It- is iirmly attached to the oleci'anon process, to the ulna, and to th prominent points about the wrist, forms sheaths for the niusci and vessels, gives origin to some of the fibres of the muscles, and i.. jjierced a little above the wrist by the tendon of the iialmaris longus,. At the wrist the transverse fibres form the anterior and posterio annular ligament. The anterior annular ligament is a narrow band of tiljres attached externally to the scaphoid, and internally to the pisiform bone and tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; it is continuous aljove with the deep fascia of the forearm, and below with the palmar fascia. It is connected with the tendons of the palmaris longus and Hexor carpi ulnaris, and gives origin to certain of the muscles of tlie thumb and little finger. The ulnar vessels and nerve, and the cutaneous branches of the median nerve, lie superficially to it. The ligament is pierced by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, an" forms with the carpal bones a canal which is lined l)y synovial mem- brane, and gives passage to the tendons going to the fingers. The synovial sheath is di^'ided into a large and a small compartment, tiie former transmitting the flexor sublimis and profundus tendons and the median nerve, the latter enclosing the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. The posterior annular ligament is an oblique band about half an inch in breadth, extending from the lower end and styloid process of the radius to the cuneiform and pisiform bone at the border of the carpus. It is continuoas above with the fascia of the forearm, below with the thin fascia of the dorsum of the hand, and sends processes inwards to be attached to the bones and form sheaths for the extensor tendons. There are six of these sheaths, the first on the radial side gi^'ing passage to the extensor ossis metacarpi and extensor primi internodii pollicis ; the second, to the extensor carj)i radialis longior and brevior ; the third, to the extensor secundi internodii ; the fourth, to the extensor indicis and extensor com- munis digitorum ; the fifth, whicli is placed between the two bones, to the extensor minimi digiti; and the sixth, situated on the ulna, to the extensor carpi ulnaris. The tendons in passing through these sheaths are each ])rovided with a .synovial bur.sa. On the back of the hand there are two fascitis, superficial and deep. The- su2}erficiaI dorsal fascia is thin and covers in the extensoi' tendons ; it is attached laterally to the metacarpal bones of the index and little finger, and is continuous above with the posterior annular ligament. The deep^ dorsal fascia is stretched across the metacarpal spaces and covers in the interossei muscles.