INTEKNAL POPLITEAL NERVE. 593 tween the trochanter major and tuberosity of the ischium, and along the posterior part of the thigh to its lower third, where it divides into two large terminal branches, internal and external popliteal. This division sometimes takes place at the plexus, and the two nerves descend side by side ; occasionally they are separated at their com- mencement by a part or by the whole of the pyriformis muscle. The nerve in its course down the thigh rests on the gemellus superior, tendon of the obturator internus, gemellus inferior, quad- ratus femoris, and adductor magnus, and is covered by the gluteus maximus and biceps. The branches of the great ischiatic nerve, previously to its division, are, muscular and articular. The muscular branches are given off from the upper part of the nerve and suj)ply both heads of the biceps, the semi-tendinosus, semi-membranosus, and adductor magnus. The articular branch descends to the upper -part of the external condyle of the femur, and divides into filaments, which are dis- tributed to the fibrous capsule and synovial membrane of the knee- joint. The INTERNAL POPLITEAL NERVE passes through the middle of the popliteal space, from the division of the great ischiatic nerve to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, accompanies the artery beneath the arch of the soleus, and becomes the j)osterior tibial nerve. It is superficial in the whole of its course, and lies externally to the vein and artery. The branches of the internal popliteal nerve are — muscular or sural, articular, and a cutaneous branch, the external sa- phenous. The muscular branches, of considerable size, and four or five in number, are distributed to the two heads of the gastrocnemius, to the soleus, plantaris, and popliteus. The articular branches, two or three in number, supply the knee-joint, two of the twigs accompanying the internal articular arteries. The external or short saphenous nerve (communicans pop- litei, vel tibialis) proceeds from the middle of the internal popliteal, and descends in the groove between the two bellies of the gastroc- nemius muscle to the middle of the leg ; it then pierces the fascia, and, after receiving the communicans peronei, comes into relation with the external saphena vein, and follows the course of that vein to the outer ankle, to which, and to the integument of the heel and outer side of the foot (cutanens dorsi ]iedis externus), it distributes l)ranches. The POSTERIOR TIBIAL NERVE is continued along the pos- terior aspect of tlie leg from the lower border of the popliteus muscle to the posterior part of the inner ankle, where it divides into the internal and external plantar nerve. In the upper part of its course it lies to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery ; it then becomes placed superficially to that vessel, and at the ankle is situ- 2 P