393 INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The pterygo-palatine is a small branch which passes backwards through the pterygo-palatine canal, and supplies the mucous mem- brane of the posterior part of the nares, upper part of the pharynx, Eustachian tube, and sphenoidal cells. The spheno-palatine, or posterior nasal, enters the superior meatus of the nose through the spheno-palatine foramen, m com- pany with the nasal filaments of Meckel's ganglion, and divides into two branches ; one branch, arteria septi, is distributed to the mucous membrane of the septum, and inosculates in the anterior palatine canal with the terminal branch of the descending palatine ; the other supplies the mucous membrane of the lateral wall of the nares, antrum, and sphenoid and ethmoid cells. The descending palatine artery descends along the posterior palatine canal, in company with the palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion, to the posterior palatine foramen ; it then bends forward, lying in a groove of the bone, and is distributed to the palate. While in the posterior palatine canal it sends several twigs back- wards through the small posterior palatine foramina to supply the soft palate ; anteriorly it gives off a branch, anterior palatine, which reaches the nares through the anterior palatine canal, and inosculates with the arteria se^^ti. The Vidian or pterygoid branch passes backwards along the Dterygoid canal with the nerve of the same name, and is distributed io the sheath of the nerve, the Eustachian tube, and mucous mem- brane of the upper part of the pharynx. INTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The internal carotid artery curves slightly outwards from the bifurcation of the common carotid, and ascends nearly perjDendi- cularly by the side of the pharynx, to the carotid foramen in the petrous portion of the teniiDoral bone. It next passes imvards, along the carotid canal, forivards by the side of the sella turcica, and wpioards by the anterior clinoid process, where it pierces the dura mater, and divides into three terminal branches. The course of ;his artery is remarkable for the number of angular curves which it "orms ; one or two of these flexures are sometimes seen in the cer- vical portion, near the base of the skull; and, by the side of the sella turcica, it resembles the italic letter s, jDlaced horizontally. Relations.—In consideration of its connections, the artery is divisible into a cervical, petrous, cavernous, and cerebral j)ortion. Plan of the Relations of tlie Cervical Portion of the Internal Carotid Artery. In Front. Parotid gland, Stylo-glossus, Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo-hyoid ligament, Glosso-pharyngeal nerve.