PINEAL BODY. 51S the nates on each side may be traced a rounded process (bracliuuu suiwrior) which passes obliquely outwards into the thalamus opticus ; and from the testis a similar but smaller process (brachium interior) which has the same destination. The internal geniculate body lies in the interval of these two processes where they enter the thalamus, and behind the inferior brachium is a prominent band which marks the course of the superior division of the olivary iasci- culus. The corpora quadrigemina are perforated longitudinally through their base by the aqueduct of Sylvius ; they are covered m partly by the pia mater and partly by the velum interpositum, and the nates support the pineal body. Two large white Ijands pass Fig. 307.—Third ven- tricle of brain, i. Corpus striatum dis- sected. 2. Fifth ven- tricle. 3. Anterior crura of fornix (cut). 4. Corpus striatum. 5. Anterior commis- sure of tliird ven- tricle. 6. Optic tha- lamus. 7. Middle or soft commissure. 8. Peduncles of pineal body. 9. Thii-d ven- tricle. 10. Pineal body. II. Tasnia semicircularis. 12. Corpora quadrige- mina. 13. Valve of Vieussens. 14. Fourth ventricle. 15. An- terior exti amity of .superior vermiform process. 16. Ai-bor vitse cerebelli. 17. Anterior extremity of inferior vermiform process (nodulus). ig. Communication of fourth ventricle with sub-arachnoid space. down from them to the cerebellum, forming the processus e cerehello ad testes, the great bond of connection between the great and little brain. Pineal Body.—The pineal body (epiphysis cerebri) is a small reddish-grey body of a conical form (hence its synonym conarium), situated on the anterior part of the nates, and invested by a duplica- ture of pia mater derived from the under part of the velum inter- positum. It is connected to the brain by means of two cords of white matter called fedundes, which may be traced along the upper and inner margin of the thalami optici to the crura of the fornix with which they become blended. From the close connection sub- sisting between the pia mater and the pineal body, and the softness of texture of the latter, it is liable to be torn away in the removal of the pia mater.