682 LARYNX. iqnvaixls and the opening closed by the epiglottis. Of the ai-yteiio- epiglottideus inferior, tlie functions appear to he, to conipi-ess tli(; subjacent glands which open into the jtouch ; to diininisli the capa- city of that cavity, and change its form ; and to approximate the epiglottis and the arytenoid cartilage. Mucous Membrane.—The aperture of the larynx is a triangular or cordiform opening, broad in front and narrow behind ; bounded anteriorly by the epiglottis, posteriorly by the arytenoideus muscle, and on either side by a fold of mucous membrane stretched between the side of the epiglottis and the apex of the arytenoid cartilage. On the margin of this aryteno-epiglottidean fold tlie cuneiform cartilage forms a i^rominence more or less distinct. Between these folds and the ala of the thyroid, on each side, is a large fossa lined by mucous membrane, and named the hyoid or innominate fossa ; be- neath its mucous lin- ing the superior and inferior laryngeal nerves communicate, and the branches of the superior and infe- rior thyroid arteries anastomose. The cavity of the larynx is divided into two parts by an oblong constriction pro- duced by the pro- minence of the vocal cords. That portion of the cavity which lies above the con- striction is broad and triangular above, and narrow below; that which is below it, is narrow above and broad and cylindrical below, the circumference of the cylinder corresponding with the ring of the cricoid ; while the space in- cluded by the constriction is a narrow, triangular fissure, the glottis or rima glottidis. Tlie form of the glottis is that of an isosceles triangle, l)ounded on the sides by the vocal cords and inner surface of the arytenoid cartilages, and behind by the arytenoideus muscle : the jiart of the chink of the glottis which lies between the vocal cords is often described as the vocalising area, and the smaller posterior portion as the reqnratory area. Its length is greater in the male than in the female, and in the former measures somewhat less than an inch. Immediately above the prominence caused by the vocal cord, and extending nearly its entire length on each side of the cavity of the larynx, is an elliptical fossa, 397-— Vei-tical sec- tion of larynx, show- ing its ligaments. i. Hyoid. 2. Epiglottis. 3 and 8. Thyro-hyoid membrane. 4. Great cornu of hyoid. 5. False vocal cord. 6. Thyro-hyoid ligament. 7. Ventricle of larynx. 9. True vocal cord. 10. Aryteno - epiglottidean fold and cartilage of Wrisberg. 11. Thyroid. 12. Superior cornu. 13. Crico - thyroid mem- brane. 14. Arytenoi- deus. 15. Trachea. 16. Arytenoid cartilage. 18. Cricoid.