TIBIO-FIBULAR ARTICULATIONS. 219 The anterior superior tibio-fibular ligament is a strong fasci- culus of parallel fibres passing obliquely downwards and outwards from the outer tuberosity of the tibia to the anterior surface of the head of the fibula. The posterior superior tibio-fibular ligament, thicker and stronger than the anterior, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the joint. It is covered by the tendon of the popliteus. Within the articulation there is a synovial membrane which is sometimes continuous with that of the knee-joint. The interosseous membrane is a broad layer of aponeurotic fibres which pass obliquely downwards and outwards, from the sharp ridge on the tibia to the inner edge of the fibula, and are crossed by a few fibres taking the opposite direction. The liga- ment is deficient above, leaving a considerable interval between the bones, through which the anterior tibial artery takes its course forward to the anterior aspect of the leg; and per- forated beloiv, near its lower third, for the anterior peroneal artery and vein. The interosseous membrane is in relation, in front, with the tibialis anticus, extensor longus digitorum, extensor proprius hallucis, anterior tibial vessels and nerve, and anterior peroneal artery; behind, with the tibialis posticus, flexor longus hallucis, flexor longus digitorum, and posterior peroneal artery. The inferior interosseous ligament consists of short and strong fibres, which hold the bones firmly together inferiorly, where they are nearly in contact; it is continuous above with the interosseous membrane. This articulation is so firm, that the fibula is broken when an attempt is made to rupture the ligament. The anterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament is a broad band, consisting of two fasciculi of parallel fibres which pass obliquely across the anterior aspect of the articulation of the two bones at their inferior extremity, from tibia to fibula. The posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament is a similar band on the posterior surface of the articulation. Both ligaments project somewhat below the margin of the bones, and serve to deepen the cavity of articulation with the astragalus. The transverse ligament is a narrow band of ligamentous fibres, continuous with the preceding, and passing transversely across the back of the ankle-joint between the two malleoli. 1<IG. 177.—Jr'osterior view of the ankle- joint. I. Lower part of the in- terosseous mem- brane. 2. Poste- ro-infeiior tibio- fibular ligament. 3. Transverse liga- ment. 4. Internal lateral ligament. 5. Posterior fasci- culus of the exter- nal lateral liga- ment. 6. Middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. 7. Syn- ovial membrane of the ankle-joint. 8. Posterior tube- rosity of the OS calcis.