792 OVARIES. The fibres of smooth muscle are mingled, as in the uterus, with imma- ture nucleated areolar tissue. The mucous membrane is thin, pale, and soft, Avithout villi or glands, and disposed in longitudinal pleats. It is invested by an epithelium consisting of a single layer of conical or filiform ciliated cells, the direction of the vibiations of the cilia being towards the cavity of the uterus. The inner surface of the fimbria is covered with ciliated epithelium, and this is continued for a short distance on to the outer surface, but soon passes into the s(|uamous form, similar in character to the cells covering the peri- toneum. In some instances there are two or more canals, as shown in Fig. 488 : as they are surrounded by a common investment, it is not probable that this appearance is prodticed by great convolution of the tube, and the consequent appearance of several parts of the tube in the same section. If the broad ligament of the uterus be held up to the light, a few scattered tubules will be seen between the ovary and Fallojiian tube. These constitute the par ovarium or organ of Rosenmiiller. They are lined with epithelium, and are closed at their ovarian extremity, but communicate at the other end with an imperfect duct, which in the sow and some other animals forms the duct of Gaertner. . The par ovarium is developed along with the Wolffian body, and seems to be the representative in the female of the coni vasculosi of the testicle of the male. The OVARIES (testis muliehres) are two oblong, flattened, and oval bodies, of a whitish colour and uneven surface, dependent from the posterior layer of peritoneum of the liroad ligaments. They are connected to the upper angles of the uterus at each side by means of a rounded cord, con- sisting of fibrous tissue, and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus, the ligament of the ovary. By the opposite extremity they are connected by an- other and a shorter ligament to the fim- briated aperture of the Fallopian tube, tuho- ovarian ligament. Structure. —The ovary is composed of a s]iongy fibrous stroma of a grevish-red colour, Fia. 489.—The ovary. «, a. Stroma, h, b, b. Small „,,,-,<^.,,-„'ii,o-;i number of Gralflan vesicles, c. A mature vesicle, d A fresh Contaimng a numoei 01 corpus luteum, with thick lining*, e. An old corpus small cellS traversed luteum. g. Veins. ]jy hlood - vessels, and is covered by a serous membrane which in the early history of the organ was evidently a continuation of the peritoneum. The