705 SOFT PALATE. IDromiiience of the sublingual gland, and oiDening along tlie summit of this ridge a number of small openings, the apertures of the excre- tory, ducts (ducts of Kivinus) of the gland. Posteriorly the tongue is connected with the os hyoides Ijy muscle, and to the epiglottis by three folds of mucous membrane, the glosso-epiglottic folds. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) is a fold of mucous membrane situated at the posterior part of the mouth. It is con- tinuous, superiorly, with the hard palate, and is composed of a double fold of mucous membrane, containing muscles, glands, and blood- vessels ; it is concave towards the mouth and convex towards the jjharynx, and presents a free festooned edge inferiorly. The structures forming the soft palate may be briefly STunmed up as follows :— Muscles: Two levatores palati, two tensores palati, two jDalati glossi, two palati pharyngei, azygos uvulae. Palatine aponeurosis. Palatine gkoids. Arteries: Ascending j)alatine, descending palatine, palatine branch of ascending pharyngeal. Nerves: Descending palatine and external palatine from spheno-palatine ganglion. The mucous membrane is continuous with that of the liard palate, but is thinner and darker, and is covered by stratified sq^uamous ej)ithelium, ex- cepting at the extreme upper part of its posterior surface, near the opening of the Eustachian tube, where it is columnar and ciliated. The palatine glands are most numerous on the joosterior surface of the velum and covering the uvula ; they are small compound race- mose glands. Hanging from the middle of the inferior border of the soft palate is a small rounded process, the uvula, and passing outwards from the nvula at each side are two cui-ved folds of the mucous membrane, the arches or pillars of the fauces. The anterior pillar is continued downwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the prominence of the j^alato-glossus muscle. The posterior pillar is prolonged downwards and back- wards into tlie pharynx, being formed b}'- the convexity of the palato-pharyngeus muscle. These two pillars, closely united above, are separated below by a triangular interval or niche, in which the tonsil is lodged. The space included between the soft palate and the root of the tongue is the isthmus of the fauces. It is bounded above by the soft palate, on each side by the pillars of tlie soft palate and tonsil and below by the root of the tongue. It is the opening between the mouth and pharynx. The tonsils (amygdalaj) are two glandular organs, about half an inch in length, shaped like almonds, and situated between the anterior and posterior pillar of the soft palate, at each side of the fauces. Externally, they are invested by the pharyngeal fascia, which separates them from the superior constrictor muscle and internal carotid artery, and prevents an abscess from opening iu that direction ; they correspond iu position to the angles of the lowei' jaw, behind which they may be felt when enlarged. They present on their surface the openings of twelve to fifteen mucoiis crypis similar to those at the root of the tongue and described below under 2 y