LUMBRICALES AND INTEROSSEI. 341 abductor minimi digiti. By its deef mrface with the interossei muscles of the last metacarpal space, metacarpal bone, and ilexor tendons of the little finger. Nerve-supply.—Ulnar nerve. Lumbricales, Palmar Region. Palmar interossei, Dorsal interossei. The LUMBRICALES, four in niimber, are accessories to the deep flexor muscle. They arise from the tendons of the deep flexor ; the first and second from the radial side of one tendon ; the third and fourth from the contiguous sides of two tendons. They pass to the radial side of each finger and are inserted into the aponeurotic ex- pansion of the extensor tendons on the dorsal aspect of the first phalanx. The third, or that of the tendon of the ring finger, sometimes bifurcates ; at other times it is inserted wholly into the extensor tendon of the middle finger. Relations.—In the palm of the hand with the flexor tendons ; at their insertion, with the tendons of the interossei and the metacarpo- phalangeal articulations. Nerve-supply.—Tlie two outer l)y the median, the two inner by the ulnar nerve. The PALMAR INTEROSSEI, three in niunber, are visible only on the palmar as- pect of the hand ; they are placed ujDonthe metacarpal l)ones, rather than between them. They arise froui the base of the meta- carpal l)one of one finger, and are in- serted into the base of the first phalanx and aponeurotic ex- pansion of the ex- tensor tendon of the same finger. The first belongs to the index finger ; the second, to the ring finger ; the third, to the little finger ; the middle finger being omitted. Relations.—By their 'palmar surface with the flexor tendons and deep muscles in the palm of the hand. By their dorsal surface with the dorsal interossei. On one side -with the metacarpal bone, on the other Avith the corresponding dorsal interosseous muscle. DORSAL INTEROSSEI.—Turning to the dorsum of the hand, tlie tour dmsal interossei are seen in the four spaces between the metacarpal bones. They are bipenniform muscles, and arise hj two Fi(i. 234.—Att;ic-liiiiuiit of an intcros.scous muscle, a. hi- tercsseous muscle, h. Attachment to the base of first phalanx, c. Slip passing forward to d. Side of extensor tendon, c. Central portion of extensor tendon.