48 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. (trabeculoo) small branclies sprang in regular intervals, anastomosing with each other and forming a mesh work. Seen from the surface it looked exactly like a fenestrated membrane. The meshes were occupied by those above-mentioned lymph-sinuses. In frogs the invagination does happen not only in that way, that one of the blood-vessels or the nerve-trunk is invaginated in a lymphatic vessel, but sometimes the whole trabecula which contains the blood-vessels and the nerve-trimk is invaginated in a lymphatic vessel. {^) Besides those lymphatics which are to be found in and near the chief trabeculge of the mesentery, there exist other lymphatic vessels, which belong to that portion of the membrane which stretches between the chief trabeculse. These are more or less wide vessels, provided with no valves; their wall is a single layer of rhombic endothelium with sinuous outlines. They correspond to what is generally called lymphatic capillaries. They accompany generally the smaller veins. In the pencilled silver- stained mesentery of the dog, cat, monkey and frog they are very easy to demonstrate. They are anastomosing with each other to a wide net-work, and are also, like those previously-mentioned vessels, provided with dilatation-sinuses. In those mesenteries where there is little fat tissue, and consequently the lymphangial plaques and tracts are clearly seen to consist of branched cells, it is also evident that these patches and tracts have always on one or both their sides lymphatic vessels. In the mesentery of living curarized toads prepared for Cohnlieim's experiment one can very often distinguish the Ijnnphatic vessels with great ease. In some places they form a rather scarce net-work of vessels, which run along the blood-vessels; in some other places they break up in a dense system of lacunae. In several instances I have found knobs of different size projecting into the lumen of the lymphatic vessels from their endothelial wall. These knobs were seen to consist of an accumulation of germinating endothelial cells; and, in fact, I have been able in one instance to observe that these germinating endothelial cells detach themselves, and are carried away by the lymph-cm-rent. I conclude from this that here a local germination of lymphoid cor-