ANATOMY OF THE LYMrHATIC SYSTEM. 22 not very limited number of isolated coarsely-granular spindle-shaped looking elements, of a considerable length. They show sometimes in their thick portion an oblong compressed nucleus ; their extremities are very delicate, and are seen sometimes to be branched. If the preparation is protected from evaporation, and if one observes the hyaline matrix previously mentioned, put under a high power, one is able to make out after some time has elapsed that gi-anular fields come into view in which a more or less distinct large oval clear nucleus-like body may be just perceived. Still later, these granular fields become more or less distinctly outlined; it is possible to make out that they represent plates of different sizes. Gradually, also, the pre- viously-mentioned nucleu.s-like body becomes sharply outlined, and is seen sometimes to contain a distinct nucleolus. If the observation is still continued, a various number of different processes come into view, which spring from those plates, and which become in their com-se so delicate that they can hardly be followed. The outlines become gradually more defined, and it is possible to make out that the gi-eater part of the plate is made of a more or less distinctly fibrillar substance, and between the fibrils lie single granules, which are continuous with the masses of granules which sm-round the nucleus. We can farther see distinctly that the processes, too, are very finely fibrillated, and that they are sometimes branched and join those of neighbouring cells after a longer or shorter course. A connection between those processes and the above-mentioned isolated, wavy, shining connective tissue bundles is not to be found. Such a connection is already a priori improbable, from the perfectly different aspect and course of those connective tissue bundles, provided that the preparation has been made with the necessary care, and that all rough handling has been avoided. In a portion which contains only a very few connec- tive tissue bundles the contrast between the processes of the above- mentioned cell plates and the connective tissue bimdles is very striking as regards thickness, course, and aspect; by careful examination it is hardly possible to imagine how the very delicate processes of the cell- plates could possibly be transformed into such a connective tissue- bundle. We need not mention that in those preparations in which the niunber of connective tissue-bundles is very large it is very diffi- cult to come to a decided conclusion.