69 CHANGES OF THE SUPEEFICIAL ENDOTHELIUM. they are both situated on the surface of the membrane, and one can properly speak only of young endothelium. As has been already indicated, the proliferation of the endothelium surrounding a true stoma is an active one. Not only do these endo- thelial cells enlarge, become distinctly granular, and present nuclei in the act of division, not only do these cells germinate and produce lymphoid cells, but this change gi'adually spreads out on the one hand over the endothelial cells of the surface which are in the neighboiu-hood, as well as over those of the vertical lymph-canals, and further over those of the lymphatic capillaries into which these lymph- canals open. If we search the abdominal surface of a diaphragm . fiurnished with abundant knots of tubercle, we shall recognise the most various appearances of development as regards the proliferation of the endothelium of the stomata. As the youngest stages, those are most imdoubtedly to be taken where the stoma is surrounded by a projecting zone of young endothelial cells at both ends, that is to say, not only at the entrance into the vertical canal, but also at the exit of the latter into the straight lymphatic capillary. Besides these, we find other places where this zone has become akeady several cells high; this has then the appearance of a short cone. Other stages are these : the cone of cells is longer, and at the same time somewhat thinner and solid ; further, broad, long cones, which, although the stoma is collapsed, still show a central cavity; aud, finally, where only a large and broad patch is to be seen, formed of young endothelial cells. In the latter, the diagnosis that we have to do with a germination of endothelium round a stoma is generally not easy. Sometimes it is rendered easy by the following circum- stances : first, one finds an indication of the opening, close round which the germination-process has become most intense, for the smallest cells are found there ; secondly, if the opening itself be not visible, we can still recognise the spot where the stoma is to be looked for, from the presence of an amorphous central fibrinous plug very darkly coloured in silver. Close to this, the smallest elements lie; finally, a thick cord of fibrine, which, becoming gradually thinner, is seen to dip into the point around which the smallest elements lie, thus indicating the direction and the place of the cm-rent of absorp-