ALTEKATION OF CELLULAR ELEMENTS OF MATRIX. 75 presented itself here with the greatest distinctness on those spots where the endothelium had become detached. Here one had to do with a centrum tendineum quasi-pencilled. In many places the system of lymph-canaliculi of the peritoneal serosa contained migratory cells; on other places the branched cells were also very distinct, besides that the outlines of the lymph-cana- licular system were recognisable. On places such as these one could perceive a striking difference in the individual parts of the lymph-canalicular system in reference to that of other places. First, it was clear that the lacunae were larger, the canals were not branched and not so abundant, and secondly, they appeared wider at many places. When one directed one's attention to one of the widest of the canals, one could discover on them one or even several small dilatations. As for the branched cells of the lymph-canalicular system, it is to be noticed that they are distinctly recognisable by their granular appearance, and by the presence of their nucleus. In many of them it was possible to trace the protoplasm of the cell body, which lay in the lacuna, into the canals ; in the wide canals which, as above described, were furnished with lacunae-form bulgings, a swelling corresponding to this bulging could also be demonstrated on the protoplasm or on the protoplasmic processes. As for the nuclei, constrictions could be remarked upon them, and some of the cells were furnished with two nuclei. From this appearance one is able without doubt to draw the conclusion that both the lymph-canalicular system and also its contents, viz. the branched cells, have undergone changes : the lacunas and canals, or the cell body and cell processes respectively, were swollen, the canals or cell processes reduced in number, less branched, and finally, the nuclei of the cells in the act of division. An objection against these deductions can be made all the less as we have to do here with a change of the lymph-canalicular system and of the cells which cannot be attributed to any cause of the method of preparation. If we pass from the places just described to places where the endothelium of the surface is also removed, and where consequently colouration of the matrix has occurred, but where the lymph canalicular system contains migratory cells, the