THE LirMPHATIC VESSELS OE THE SEROUS MEMBEANES. 45 nitrate of silver, and artificial respiration is carried on for fifteen to twenty minutes, the animal being suspended head downwards. The centrmn tendineum, having been sufficiently washed with water, is cut out and prepared for microscopic preparations, as mentioned above. In such preparations the lyihiDhatics present themselves as dilated sacs and tubes, the endothelial wall of which comes out with great distinctness. Fig. 36 is taken from such a preparation. The fact that lymphatic vessels which have a winding com-se sink down at once between the tendon-bundles, to continue their course as straight vessels, is here very obvious. It can be further made out in such preparations that the horn-like terminations of lymphatic capillaries, as represented by Eeckling- hausen, are only apparent, for they correspond to such points where a lymphatic vessel curves roimd so as to sink down between tendon- bimdles and to become a straight vessel. In silver preparations prepared in the ordinary way after pencilling, such horn-like termin- ations are sometimes pretty common, and can easily be mistaken for true terminations. The question presents itself now. What is the physiological value of the straight lymphatic vessels ? Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel already attributed to these straight lymphatics an important part in the absorption. According to those authors they are widely dilated during the inspiration position of the diaphragm, corresponding to the action of the muscles and tendons of this latter, whereas they are compressed during the respiration, the lymphatics of the pleural surface of the diaphrag-m being quite the reverse. Consequently, the respiratory movement of the diaphragm acts Hke a pump on its lymphatics. (The free communication of the lymphatics with the peritoneal cavity, by means of stomata, will be discussed hereafter.) This, however, is not the only way in which the straight lymphatics act. We have mentioned before that the lymphatics of the diaphragm are arranged in an anterior and posterior system, the former dis- charging itself in trunks that run towards a gland, the latter in a wide short trunk that runs directly into the thoracic duct. Now the straight lymphatic capillaries are the vessels which perform the com- munication of tliose two systems, and this is their chief action. As the