64 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. cells, not only those found free in the fluid, but also those still on the peritoneum, exhibit, in so far, a morphological change, as they appear larger, as if swelled up, and their protoplasm is occupied by a greater or smaller number of variously-sized granules. If the fresh membrane is examined microscopically we may recognise that in the circimiference of those parts which have become deprived of their endothelium, the individual endothelial cells are distinctly granular, even in the surface view. On silver preparations these spots are distinguished by the endothelial cells becoming more deeply coloured (cseteris paribus), i.e. exhibit a dark granular precipitate. Corresponding to the endothelial cells being more or less loose, we find instead of the well-known sharply-defined silver lines, i.e. instead of the stained intercellular lines, variously-sized, roundish or oblong, dark-coloured, drop-shaped ele- ments. What appear as cell elements are accordingly separated from each other by broad or narrow spaces, in which the above-described bodies lie. I have just said that this substance which appears as black- coloured drops takes the position in which the cementing substance should be found. In fact, nothing is easier than to discover the gradual transition of those broad spaces, filled with the drop-shaped bodies, into the simple dark silver lines. The shape, the colouring, the want of every structure, admits of no other interpretation than that just given, namely, that the indivi- dual endothelial cells become loosened, and that there is a more or less fluid substance between them, which has become stained by the nitrate of silver. Whether these drop-like bodies are offsprings of the original cementing substance, or whether they belong to the transudation, would be an idle discussion. From the rapid and abundant transudation from the blood-vessels the loosening of the endothelial cells is quite well conceivable as a simply mechanical result. A further important fact is that the nuclei of the endotheliarceUs exhibit distinct appearances of division, and this sometimes very ex- tensively. Not only do we find a great number of flat endothelial ceUs in the fluid, in which the nucleus presents the most various appearances of division, but we especially find, for example, in the centrum tendineum and mesentery, quite extensive places on which we should