67 CHANGES OF THE SUPEEFICIAL ENDOTHELIUM. the omentum, where we have become acquainted with isolated pseudo- stomata in the normal state. (b.) Chronic Peritonitis.—Still more does the condition of limited endothelial proliferation come into view in chronic inflammation. If we tuberculise ' a guinea-pig by the well-known method of injecting material of an kidm-ated lymphatic gland into the abdominal cavity, the most instructive appearances result, as regards germination of the endothelium, round and about the stomata, especially on the omentum, on the parietal peritoneum, on the centrum tendineum, and on the mesentery. The process is most intense on the omentum. Here we find, as long as the tuberculous process has not yet advanced very extensively, a very active germination of the endothelium on the knots and cords frequently mentioned, and whose number and size have decidedly increased. Under these circumstances the true stomata can be made out in many cases much easier in fresh prepa- rations and silver-treated objects than in the normal condition. Their number, compared with that of the pseudo-stomata, is de- cidedly smaller. We shall limit ourselves to the smaller lymphatic knots, for on the larger the process of germination of the endo- thelium has already advanced so far that it even comprises the endo- thelium of the thin connective-tissue trabeculae of the neighbourhood. I do not think it necessary for understanding the matter that I should once more enmnerate all those appearances which indicate an active germination of the endotheliiun. The germination of the endotheliima on the fenestrated portions in the form of small buds consisting of young endothelium, is also a very active one; here we are able to perceive, on accoimt of the great number of such buds, the presence of a protoplasmic stalk emerging from the matrix, and representing the centre of these little buds. This protoplasmic central stalk corresponds completely to a pseudo-stoma. The germination of young endothelial-looking cells is to be observed on the pseudo-stomata themselves in gxeat numbers. If we trace, in a preparation mounted in serum, a thin cord usually projecting towards ' We refer the reader to the detailed account of artificial tuberculosis by Burdon- Sanderson ; in the same place a detailed account is given of the macroscopic conditions of the affected organs. r 2