ANATOIVIY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 24 dividual spindle-sliaped element rolls on its broadside so as to appear as a placoid, and vice versa. Having so determined that all tlie elements of this gelatinous hyaline body are of the same nature, a further question arises, What is the significance of those elements ? From what has been said until now, it is plain that this gelatinous body is perfectly analogous with what is called ' Schleimgewebe,' namely, what is regarded as embryonal connective tissue ; but we must venture to repeat again that we have not been able to discover a transition of the celkdar elements of that gelatinous body into con- nective tissue bundles. The significance of the placoid cellular ele- ments of it is to become transformed into fat cells. If we examine a preparation taken from the perfectly hyaline part of the neighbourhood of a fat lobide we find the nearer we ap- proach to the fat lobule the more numerous are the branched placoids, which contain fat globules, either one large one, or several small ones. First they appear only isolated, the protoplasmic part and the processes of the cell are very distinctly recognisable, the nucleus is situated somewhat peripherally; then we find them lying in groups, they are still provided with processes, but contain a very large fat globule. Here the protoplasm of the cell-body is reduced to a more or less thin covering of the fat globide. Where cells of that kind lie close beside each other, their processes can hardly be made out; but where these are met with as isolated ones it does not require any high power to convince one's self that they are still provided with processes. Where these new fat cells lie in groups a great number of blood- vessels are to be met with: they form in such places a special system, which is perfectly analogous to that found in fat lobules. But there exist similar systems of blood-vessels in groups which do not contain fat cells, which contain only clusters of the previously-mentioned placoids : here they are, however, provided only with fewer and shorter processes. One finds, for instance, an arterial branch breaking up into a bimch of capillary vessels, which, after anastomosing with each other, collect themselves into a venous vessel. The hyaliue matrix in which this system of blood-vessels is imbedded contains a great number of branched placoids. In such places it can be further made