53 THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. of the mesentery, in a very active state of germination, the animals suffering from chronic peritonitis. A second kind of stoma vermn represents a simple discontinuity of the endothelium of the surface. They lead into a simple lym- phatic lacima, situated superficially beneath the endothelium, and, as we have seen, lined only on, one surface, the lower surface, with an endothelium. The endothelium of the surface which borders such a stoma has very often also a germinating character. This kind of stoma verum is to be foimd in the omentum of rabbits and the mesentery of frogs and toads. They are also very much easier to demonstrate when these membranes are affected with slight chronic inflammation. We have ah-eady mentioned, at the beginning of this Essay, that there exist superficial branched cells in the serous membranes which lie either totally or partially between the endothelium of the surface, or, as is more commonly the case, only reach the surface by a process which projects between the superficial endothelium. In the peri- lymphangial nodules and cords described as occurring in the omen- tum and pleura this is the case in an extraordinary degree. We find here a large number of such perpendicular processes, projecting freely between the endothelium of the surface, which proceed from the superficial cells of the cell-network of the matrix of these lym- phatic structures. This may be seen both in the young and old structures, in true or optical sections, as well as in sm-face prepara- tions. As we have stated that the branched cells which constitute the matrix of these peri-lymphangial nodules, as well as those of the groxmd-tissue of any given part, lie in the lymph-canalicular system,* it is a necessary conclusion that the lymph-canalicular system opens ' We must again repeat here that by this we only mean the negative picluie whose position is formed by the branched lymph-canalicular cells themselves, with their pro- cesses. We are therefore not in precise agreement with the views of Lavdovsky and Afonassiew. These authors consider that in the serous membranes a superficial lymph- canalicular system exists as such, i.e. without the lymph-canalicular cells ; and that this quasi empty lymph-canalicular system opens freely on the surface by a number of fine perpendicular canals. We, on the contrary, consider that the branched lymph-canalicular cells reach the surface through processes; and as we deny the existence of a lymph-canal- icular .system without colls, and rather consider it only as a negative piclure.of the latter the statement, that the lymph-caniilicular system opens freely on the sui-face by canals, is