*^ ANATOMY OP THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. died in consequence of tuberculosis. The liver, spleen, lungs, and lymphatic glands contained very numerous tubercles, while the omentum and the mesentery were disproportionately little affected, and the centrum tendineum least of all. The same conditions were found on the mesentery and omentum of cats, which presented the macroscopic appearances of tuberculosis, viz. grey nodules dissemi- nated over these membranes, especially over the mesentery. These were cases of chronic inflammation of the mesentery and omentum in consequence of a parasitic immigration from the alimentary canal. Similarly I have found the abnormal germination of the endo- thelium round the stomata, especially round those of the omentum of the rabbit whose omentum exhibited signs of chronic inflammation in consequence of the presence of parasites in the lymphatics. I have, however, also induced artificially the abnormal germina- tion of the endotheliima on true stomata and pseudo-stomata on the omentum and centrum tendineum of the rabbit. If a few c.c. of starch and oil or starch and water are injected into the abdominal cavity of a well-nourished rabbit, and if the examination of the omentum and centrum tendineum is undertaken not earlier than four to eight weeks, we shall find that the alteration of the endo- thelium is now limited to those places only where we have become acquainted with stomata and pseudo-stomata, the germination of the endothelium being here very considerable. Lastly, I must mention the germination of the endothelium round the stomata of the mesentery and mesogastrium of a compara- tively large number of female frogs during the winter months. In these cases there appeared also on the septum of the cysterna-lym- phatica-magna abundant germination of the endothelium round the stomata on the peritoneal surface, as well as a germination of the endothelium spreading from these points. It may be remarked by the way that the peritoneum of the ovaries and oviducts, and that in the neighbourhood of the liver, were in these cases covered with more or less numerous false membranes,