ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 60 capillaries. But on closer observation another much more important fact is brought to light; namely, that the branched cells of the matrix stand in direct continuity with the protoplasmic wall of these young capillaries, by their processes. From the extraordinarily com- mon occurrence of the above fact in various modifications, and from the clearness with which it may be observed, no error is possible. I must especially insist upon this now, because in any figure, however successful, apart from the suspicion one may always feel of a drawing, this can never be so clearly recognised as it appears de facto imder the microscope. We need not seek long in a patch in which the number of such young capillaries is considerable in order to come upon a capillary which ends csecally. This is either a short lateral branch or a longer capillary which makes a loop-like bend. At the ca3cal end we can recognise very clearly the protoplasmic character of the wall. The lumen becomes more or less suddenly narrowed, the wall finally becomes solid, and passes into a perfectly ordinary nucleated branched cell of the matrix. We find all forms of this hollowing out of the branched cells; at one time only in a thicker process of a cell, at another even in the body of the cell itself. A very common occurrence is, further, that the branched cells, as we have already had occasion to state, show vacuoles, both in the body and also in thicker processes. The vacuoles become elongated towards a capillary branch which is being hollowed out, and finally fused with it. Capillaries, therefore, are not only formed from pre- viously existing capillaries by continuous excavation of the branched cells connected with their walls, but are also formed isolated in the branched cells themselves, becoming ultimately united with the former. Isolated vacuolation for the purpose of the formation of blood-capillaries is a perfectly distinct process from vacuolation for the purpose of the development of lymphatic capillaries; for in the latter case vesicles are developed whose wall almost immediately shows an endothelial differentiation, even when these vesicles have not yet come into communication with lymphatic vessels ; in the former case, on the contrary, this differentiation into endothelial plates does not take place for a considerable time.