GEEMINATING ENDOTHELIUM. 6 deduced from the facfJ that besides the appearances of constriction and division of the polyhedral or club-shaped endothelial cells, there are always numbers of smaller spherical lymphoid elements to be foimd amongst them, which are detached from the surface, that is to say, which have become perfectly separated. Grerminating endothelium is to be found just as richly on the omentiun of the dog, especially in the non-fenestrated portion, where it is to be met with in the form of isolated smaller or larger groups. The pleura mediastini of dogs, cats and monkeys is a very good object for studying germinating endothelium. On the trabeculas of that membrane, as well as on the complicated system of tracts which extends freely over the surface, there exist numbers of lateral or inter- calated nodular swellings of various size, the surface of which is covered abundantly with young endothelium. From the great number of club-shaped and pedunculated two-nucleated endothelial cells, and from the number of spherical cells which are more or less loosely attached to the surface of the above-mentioned swellings, we cannot but deduce that there is going on a very abundant production of lym- phoid cells. Not less instructive is the mesogastrium of the frog. If this membrane of a female frog during the winter months is examined in an indifferent fluid or after staining with silver solution, one recog- nises on the surface of the dense portion, especially on the trabeculse of the fenestrated portion, mmibers of places where the endothelium possesses the germinating character: they appear either in small groups or as nodules which project freely on the surface of the trabe- culse. This germinating endothelium, which is similar to that described in mammals as regards its substance, shape, and nucleus, possesses the peculiarity that the surface of the endothelial cells is provided with a bunch of cilia. If the membrane is mounted in seriun, and the cover glass supported by small strips of paper, the ciliary movement can be observed during three hom-s and more with equal rapidity. The pro- liferation of this ciliated endothelial cells takes place m the following way: one finds not rarely a ciliated cell of a columnar shape which possesses two nuclei, situated above each other in the longitudinal axis