ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 80 long as these villi are small, one recognises a pale granular matrix, containing two or more nuclei, covered by a layer of endothelial plates, somewhat tliicker than common endothelial cells. In a still later stage the matrix contains, besides the corpuscles just mentioned, a substance which is first hyaline, but afterwards be- comes finely striated connective tissue. In some omenta many villi are to be found, which consist of a fully-developed connective tissue matrix, with the corresponding lymph-canalicular system and their branched cells. The question arises where this connective tissue matrix originates. Kundrat asserts, that the connective tissue matrix of those projections and villi of the omentum in chronic in- flammation take their origin from endothelial elements, which, having become elongated, become transformed into bimdles of connective tissue. I cannot confirm this statement, for I must on the contrary mention that the bundles of connective tissue that make their appearance in these villi are always first hyaline thin bands, which gradually increase in thickness, whereas the cells of the matrix never show any transition into these bundles. I possess preparations of the mesogastrium and the septum cysternae lymphaticse of a female frog, which suffered from chronic peritonitis, where the development of villi with a connective tissue matrix can be followed through all its intermediate stages ; and here it is more likely that the connective tissue bands are mere excretions, either of pseudo-stomata cells or, as it is oftener the case, of the superficial endothelial cells. I have come across innumerable preparations of mesenteries of giiinea-pigs suffering from chronic peritonitis, where the connective tissue bands of the matrix of the above-mentioned villi and projec- tions must be taken as excretions of the cells ; in not one single instance was there to be seen a transformation of cellular substance into these bands. They always appear as thin hyaline bands of equal diameter, which gradually increase in thickness, and in a later stage show a fibrillar structure. I am, therefore, in agreement with Kollett, who states that in the serous membranes connective-tissue bundles develope from an inter-cellular substance. "We come now to deal with a point, the significance of which has been until the pre- sent completely overlooked—we mean the significance of vacuolation