63 CHANGES OF THE SUPERFICIAL ENDOTHELIUM. normally to be seen a germinating endothelium, a condition, it seems, overlooked by Eanvier and Kundrat. We have further shown, in the second chapter, that the knots and cords are not exactly to be regarded as pre-existing adenoid tissue, nor as collections of lymph-corpuscles, but that they are developed for the most part out of ordinary branched cells of the tissue—in fact, as peri-lymphangial knots and cords ; and more, that the farther the development is advanced the more numerous are the lymph-corpuscles at the spot—the more does the cellular network assume the character of an adenoid network. Finally, we have pointed out, in the third chapter, that normally, in the omentum and the mediastinal pleura, knots and cords originate by the outgrowth of the endothelium of the lymphatic capillaries as a network of branched cells, from which young cells spring. Thus we see that all the views of the authors are applicable to a certain extent to the normal serous membranes—the views of Kundrat and Eanvier, of Knauff and Sanderson, and finally of Klebs. We shall now show in this section how far these views are applicable in patho- logical relations. 1. The Changes of the Superficial Endothelium. a. When severe acute peritonitis is produced in a rabbit, guinea-pig, dog, or cat, for example, by the introduction of ammonia, of a solution of iodine in hydro-iodic acid, or of toxic pyaemic fluids, which latter kill the animals in a period varying from twelve to forty-eight hours, into the peritoneal cavity, the mesentery, the intestinal serosa, the omentum, and the peritoneum of the centrum tendineum appear ex- traordinarily hypersemic, if an opportunity is afforded of examining the animal during the first twenty-four or forty-eight hours. The abdominal cavity contains mostly, but not always, a greater or smaller quantity of bloody-coloured fluid, with abundant separation of fibrine. In these cases of severe acute peritonitis, the endothelium of the surface exhibits a common character—it appears, that is to say, loosened and removed over great parts. The fluid contains, accordingly, an abundance of isolated membranes composed of endothelial cells, and the surface of many parts is deprived of its endothelium. Many of the endothelial