20 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. are justified in concluding that the lymphoid corpuscles wliich are to be found in the spaces of the reticulum are offsprings of the cells of that reticulum. If we examine one of the above-mentioned membranes without special preparation we often find nodules and tracts marked only as an accumulation of lymphoid corpuscles. After what we have stated in the foregoing pages it would be perfectly erroneous to say that the nod ides and tracts of the omentum represent only accumulations of lymphoid corpuscles (Knauflf, Eecklinghausen); and it would be not less incorrect to say that they resemble follicular tracts of lym- phatic glands, viz. consist of adenoid tissue (Sanderson). We have seen, namely, that-there exist several marked varieties in the nodules : a. Simple accumulations of germinating endothelium of the surface ; 6. Accumulation of more or less flat branched cells, or what comes to the same, accumulation of lymph-canalicular systems, the lacunae of which become by the gradual division of their cells nearer to each other, and become provided in this way with less numerous and shorter canaliculi. Further, we have seen: c. Nodides which per- fectly resemble adenoid tissue ; and finally, (d) we have found vascu- larised nodules, the matrix of which consists of a reticulum of large more or less flat branched cells, the spaces of which are generally occupied by fluid, or by a very limited number of lymphoid corpuscles; that is to say, the matrix is replaced by a space filled with fluid, which space is subdivided into a number of small spaces by a reticulum of branched cells. As we shall see in the chapter on the lymphatic vessels, the varieties c and d form one category of nodules and tracts, which, as they develop in lymphatic vessels, may be called endolymphangial nodules and tracts, whereas the nodules included in variety h lie outside lym- phatic vessels, but in close connection with their wall, and may there- fore be called perilymphangial nodules and tracts. We must, however, add that we do not intend to draw a hard line as regards structure between c and d on the one hand and h on the other hand, at least not for the guinea-pig, cat, dog, or monkey; for we have not unfrequently seen nodules and tracts, the peripheral parts of which consisted of large more or less flat branched cells, which