81 ALTERATION OF CELLULAR ELEMENTS OF MATRIX. of cells in inflammation. We have had already the opportunity to mention the occurrence and the changes of vacuolated cells in the normal omentum. We have here only to add that in chronic inflam- mation very numerous cells of the matrix of the serous membranes become vacuolated, and change either into .lymphatic vessels in the way previously described, or they become elongated and join a capil- lary blood-vessel. As regards the former case I had frequently occasion to see that in some^of them a^formation of lymphoid corpuscles takes place from the wall of the vesicle into its cavity. Further, I have met with large multi-nucleated cells (myeloplaxes), in which there was to be seen the transformation of the central portion into a number of lymphoid corpuscles, that of the peripheral part into the nucleated wall of a vesicle—endothelial vesicle. I refer the reader to Figures 18, 20, 23, 25, 27, 31, 33, and 53. The most interesting fact as regards the vacuolation of cells I have observed in the cells of the pseudo-stomata in chronic inflam- mation. It occm-s, namely, that in one of these a vacuolation takes place, and the vacuole opens on one side free on the surface through the process that stretches to the surface between the endothelium, whereas towards the opposite side it becomes connected with a lymphatic capillary, so that we have then before us the case that a lymphatic capillary opens freely on the surface of the membrane by a vertical canal, the entrance opening of which represents a true stoma. See Figures 27, 33a, 53, and 54. In Fig. 54, mesogastrium of a common frog, an endo-lymphangial growth of a branched network is to be noticed in such an isolated vacuolated cell, from which it can be inferred that endo-lymphangial nodules develop in lymphatics in their earliest stage. 3. The Blood- Vessels and Lymphatic Vessels. What has been said as regards the development of blood capil- laries in the normal serous membranes is true also for chronic inflam- mation, of course with greater extensity and intensity. Finally, we have to notice the intensive growth of a branched reticulum from the endothelial wall into the lumen of lymphatic a