« ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. In some of these branched corpuscles a distinct clear nucleus is to be seen. It is farther to be noticed, on careful examination, that these branched corpuscles, or let us say at once these branched cells, exhibit apparently great differences as regards shape, size, processes, and nucleus, for at one place a corpuscle is like the above-mentioned, at a neighboiu-ing place the corpuscle has a spindle-shaped form, the nucleus staff-shaped, and at still another place it is somewhat elongated, and is provided with a very few processes. In some preparations, slightly stained with silver, I have been able to make out with high powers that in some instances the body of these branched corpuscles lies somewhat deeper than the endothe- lium, whereas one or the other of the finely granular processes stretches itself perfectly superficially between the endothelial cells. The same relations are to be found on the mesentery of cats and monkeys, over large trabeculse containing large blood-vessels as well as on the pleural sm-face of the centrum tendineum. We shall see afterwards that they are easier to be found in the inflamed condition. Most abundantly, however, and chiefly, they are seen to exist on the omentum of rabbits, on the omentum and pleura mediastini of the guinea-pig, cat, dog, and monkey, especially on those places where, as we have seen, the germinating endotheliimi occm-s, viz. on the above-mentioned nodules and patches, as well as on the tracts which contain large blood-vessels and fat. At present I will not describe the minute relations of these branched corpuscles which project partly or wholly between the endothelium of the surface, as we shall return to them repeatedly afterwards. Before leaving this chapter, I wish to say a few words about the method of investigation by which I have arrived at the foregoing results. The examination of fresh preparations in serimi or other in- different fluids is of great importance. The membrane, after being excised with the greatest precautions against pulling or tearing, is placed in a capsule with somewhat diluted serum or one-half per cent, saline solution ; after being spread out by slight movement to and fro, a portion of it is separated with sharp scissors; a glass slide is brought in the capsule, and the portion is floated on it, so as to be