ALTERATION OF CELLULAR ELEMENTS OF MATRIX. 79 peritonitis in consequence of starch-injection into the peritoneum, many of the straight lymphatic capillaries of whose centrum tendineum were plugged up by lymph-corpuscles. As regards the peri- and endo-lymphangial nodules and cords of the omentum, it is to be noticed that in chronic inflammation a very active proliferation of the elements of those structures takes place. The best example to ascertain this fact is to be found in the omentum of guinea-pigs in different stages of the tuberculous process. Here it can be shown that those structm-es increase not only in size, but, what is of greater importance, also in number. Not only the branched cells of the matrix, but also the lymphoid corpuscles that are in direct or indirect connection with it, undergo very active proliferation. The branched cells of the matrix become very much more abundant by growing into the neighbouring tissue; they are first large in their body as well as in their processes, but gradually become transformed into a delicate reticulum. It is very common to find such branched cells of the matrix whose body is provided with a number of small constricted nuclei, and amongst the lymphoid corpuscles of the matrix, multinuclear large elements are oftener to be met with than in the normal condition. By the out-growth of the branched cells of the matrix very often secondary nodules and cords are formed, which in some instances pro- ject over the general surface of the omentum like bridges, villi or papillae; they are, as has been stated previously, more or less covered with germinating endothelium. . After having discovered the pseudo-stomata on the omentum, my attention was directed to the question, whether in chronic inflamma- tion the proliferation of the protoplasmic elements representing the pseudo-stomata plays any part in the development of those smaller and larger villous projections that are so often to be found on the omentum as well as on other portions of the peritoneum. It was soon ascertained that the pseudo-stomata do not only pro- liferate in the way above stated, viz. budding lymphoid cells to the sur- face, which resemble young endothelial elements, but also that they grow out over the general sm-face as protoplasmic masses, which carry with them the surrounding zone of the endothelial cells. As