46 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. deep straight lymphatic capillaries and the superficial ones represent, as we have seen, only one category of vessels, we are justified in saying that this category of lymphatic capillaries discharges itself in two directions: one freely in the thoracic duct, and a second less freely towards the sternal gland. In a following chapter we shall see that the straight lymphatic capillaries, the deep ones as well as the superficial ones, stand in free communication with the peritoneal cavity, by means of vertical lymphatic canals (stomata of the authors); consequently, we have to substitute for the diagram of L. and S.S. representing the lymphatics as a single pump, a diagram of a pump with two cylinders, the one cylinder corresponding to the pleural vessels of the anterior system, the other to those of the posterior system, while the pipe connecting the two cylinders is represented by the straight capillaries, and the piston tube by the vertical lymphatic canals. It must be borne in mind, however, that the two cylinders act simultaneously. The superficial straight lymphatic capillaries are not the only capillaries that are to be met with on the abdominal surface of the centrum tendineum of the diaphragm of rabbits and guinea-pigs. Near the median line of the anterior quadrants, and near the large blood-vessels that pass through the diaphragm, there exist lymphatic capillaries of a winding course, and provided with numerous dilatation- sinuses. They stand in communication with the straight lymphatic capillaries. In some places two neighbouring superficial straight capillaries anastomose with each other by means of a transverse branch provided with sinuses, which belong to the peritoneal serosa. After what has been said about the relation of the lymphatic capillaries to the lymph-canalicular system in the omentum, there remains very little to be said as regards that in the centrum ten- dineum. We may mention that the continuity of the endothelium of the pleural lymphatic capillaries with the branched cells of the lymph-canalicular system of the pleural serosa can be demonstrated very easily in the centrum tendineum of rabbits and guinea-pigs. We refer the reader simply to the Figs. 14, 16, and 17, on Plate IV.