34 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. In the lumen of the lymphatic there swim a number of lymph- corpuscles of various sizes, exhibiting amoeboid movements. How easy it is to fail to see the lymphatics in the fresh omentum is shown by the circumstance that, if the membrane is subjected to only a very slight stretching, the lymphatics collapse completely, and appear as nothing else than rows of spindle-shaped elements, between which migTatory cells lie here and there. Even in silvered preparations the same som-ce of error exists. I have seen it happen, in a considerable number of silver preparations in which the lymphatics were plainly visible, although their endothelium was only faintly coloured, that, on removing the preparation from one object-glass to another (necessitated by an accident), the lymphatics were no longer to be seen. It is only in the rarest cases that a lymphatic will be seen, unless the omentum be treated in situ with the proper reagents. And, in my opinion, this will not appear astonishing, when it is borne in mind, on the one hand, how delicate and flaccid the lymphatics in this situation are, and on the other hand, how tender and thin is the ground-substance itself. How easily, therefore, the lymphatics collapse when the membrane is cut out and the circulation of lymph has ceased. Thus, as regards the mesentery, there is no possibility of failure in the demonstration of the large lymphatics running from the intestine to the mesenteric glands and accompanying the blood-vessels, and which possess muscular walls ; for in their case, collapse to the extent of their disappearance cannot occur. On the other hand, demonstration of the lymphatic proper in the mesentery invariably fails if the mesentery is not treated in situ with the greatest care. In like manner, it is hard to fail in demonstrating the lymphatics of the plem-al side of the centrum tendineum, because here the serous membrane is prevented from slirinking too much by the subjacent tendinous tissue. On the other hand, want of success in demonstrating the lymphatics of the medias- tinal pleura is easily intelligible on the same grounds as in the case of the omentum. From the circumstances just now mentioned, it follows that one should be very careful in asserting the existence, in an omentum whose lymphatics are not apparent, of spindle-shaped elements—and among them a greater or less number of migratory cells—ranged