65 CHANGES OF THE SUPERFICIAL ENDOTHELIUM. have suspected nothing of the kind in the healthy condition; thus, for example, there is seen on the endothelium, which covers the peri- toneal side of that portion of the serosa which lies upon the tracts of tendons, and on which, as we have seen in the first part, proliferation is not to be observed in the normal condition, an active alteration of the nuclei over extensive spaces, from the simple constriction to the division into two or three small nuclei. In the case of the omentum it is more difficult to furnish a decided opinion, for there, as we have seen, an extensive proliferation goes on in the normal condition. Should, however, the inflammation be of a less degree, e.g. in the case of peritonitis, consequent on the entrance of air after larger or smaller abdominal wounds by which we expose the peritoneum to the atmosphere, or by the insertion of threads, of small solid bodies, as starch (1-2 c.c. of a tolerably concentrated mixture of starch and water), 5-10 c.c of a five per cent. Berlin blue solution, a few c.c. of oil or oil and starch, or any similar fluid which acts readily as a foreign body—in these cases, we obtain an appearance somewhat different from the preceding. Here, indeed, there are also seen, after twenty-four or forty-eight hours and later, isolated detached endo- thelial plates in the exudation. The peritoneum, however, exhibits only a few places where the endothelium is loosened or has disappeared in masses. On silver-stained preparations the endothelium is more strongly coloured; we recognise, in many regions, as on the centrum tendineum, that the endothelial cells have become granular, are somewhat swollen in diameter, the nucleus has become more pro- minent ; in short, they possess more the appearance of epithelium: the nucleus of many of the cells is in the state of division. On the omentum, and especially on the fenestrated portion, there may be demonstrated more easily polyhedral endothelial cells whose nuclei are in the state of division. What is most worthy of observation is that where we have met with germinating endothelium in the normal condition a very active proliferation has taken place. It extends over the abdominal surface of the centrum tendineum, as well as over the pseudo-stomata and stomata of the oinentum and the mesenterj^. In some places the germination of the endothelium is of a very re- markable extent. Not only occm- there bud-like processes which F