ANATOMY OF THE LYTVIPHATIC SYSTEM. extent with the pencilling. In the puppy, the pencilling is easier : the membrane is not too tender, and therefore one succeeds much better in obtaining a silver preparation in which the lymphatic system may be successfully studied. What I shall describe hereafter refers only to a small extent to silver preparations of the normal membranes; to a greater extent it refers to the investigation of fresh normal membranes, and chiefly to the investigation of membranes—either fresh or silvered—that have been slightly chronically inflamed. The latter, if the chronic in- flammation has not reached too high a degree, are especially well adapted for the study of the lymphatic system, for the simple reason that here the lymphatics are held distended, either by the fluid of oedema or by lymphoid corpuscles. Thus the tuberculous omentum and plem-a mediastini of the guinea-pig and ape have been of great service in many cases in consequence of the oedematous condition. The lymphatic vessels which accompany the larger blood-vessels have quite the same relation as we have found them to have in the rabbit, i.e. they accompany each vessel either singly, or more frequently in pairs, and are in a few cases of an invaginating character; the latter condition, however, being, on the whole, not very frequent. Con- cerning their structure, there is to be made out only a wall composed of endothelium; they follow exactly the course of the venous branches ; here and there also a l_ymphatic is seen beside an artery. As regards those nodules and cords which, by their stroma, may be interpreted as peri-lymphangial nodules and cords, there exists quite the same condition as we have already determined for the omentum of the rabbit; namely, the lymphatic vessel terminates as such and loses itself into the densely-aggregated lymph-canalicular system, while the corresponding system of branched cells is in direct continuity with the endothelium of the lymphatic vessel. Here, also, we find amongst the tracts of lymph-canalicular cells which accompany some- times a small vascular trunk simple lymph-lacunge, that is, a fusion of several lymph-canaliculi. As in the rabbit, such simple lymph- lacimse occur also quite superficially in the omentum and pleura mediastini of the before-mentioned animals. Considerably often, also, lymph-sinuses, viz. sacciform dilatations of lymphatic vessels are