19 CELLULAR ELEMENTS OE THE GROUND-SUBSTANCE. is to say, that some of tlie larger migratory cells have originated from a branched cell. In negative silver preparations of a corresponding yoimg nodule it can be made out also that the clear lymph-cana- licular system contains not only the network of branched cells, but also the migi-atory cells. Besides the latter, we find also larger isolated nodides in the fenestrated part of the omentum ; they are already provided with a system of capillary blood-vessels. As regards theii- minute structure, one can determine with certainty in positive silver preparations that their matrix is occupied by more or less flattened cells, which, in the same way as in the rabbit's omentum, are the more branched the nearer they are to the borders of the nodules. In negative silver preparations we find the lymph-canalicular system accordingly so transformed that in the central parts of the nodule the lacimte commimicate with each other only by a few short cana- liculi or even touch each other in lines ; whereas in the peripheral parts of the nodule the number and the length of those canaliculi become greater. We need only add that from those more or less branched cells of the matrix migratory cells may be seen to grow up like knobs and become separated. Besides the nodules just mentioned, we find also here, especially in the pleura mediastini of the cat, smaller nodules of an elongated shape, which consist of a delicate reticukun of nucleated branched cells, the meshes of which are perfectly fiUed mth lymphoid corpuscles. FinaUy, we find nodules, and shorter or longer tracts, which possess a very rich system of capillary blood-vessels. Between these capillary blood-vessels extends a reticulum of pretty large branched cells, the meshes of which are either perfectly clear and empty, viz. contain nothing but fluid, or they contain here and there a smaller or larger lymphoid cell, which in some instances may be seen to grow up from those branched cells, viz. we find in one place that from a branched cell of the reticulum a nucleated rounded knob projects into the space of an adjacent mesh ; and not far from that we find a similar appearance, with this difference, that the nucleated knob is raised from its branched cell by a more or less deep furrow. In a third case we find the nucleated knob previously mentioned connected with the branched cell by means of a thin peduncle. From these facts we 0 2