14 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. whicli, on the one band, undergo division, as at f, and from wliicb, on the other hand, grow up large coarsely-granular elements. If we direct our attention to a small patch which is provided witli a system of capillary blood-vessels (see Figs. 24 and 29), we see that nearly the whole matrix is occupied by a network of finely-granular, nucleated branched cells, which network is in communication with the isolated branched cells of the surrounding tissue. In the same preparation from which Fig. 29 is taken there exist also patches the ground-substance of which has not remained un- stained, but is of a slightly brownish colour; in this ground-substance we see a rich system of clear lacunae, which communicate with eacli other by numerous branched and unbranched canaliculi of dif- ferent breadth and length. Under a high power, we recognise in many of the lacimse and canaliculi the finely-granular nucleated branched cells above described, besides small lymphoid corpuscles. We need not render it especially prominent that this system of lacunae and canaliculi corresponds to the well-known lymph-canali- cular system of Eecklinghausen, and that it represents the spaces in which the above-mentioned system of branched cells lies. The Fig. 30 may be regarded as a combination of the negative, viz. the clear lymph-canalicular system, and the positive, viz. the system of branched cells, the outlines of the former as well as the nucleated protoplasm of the latter being distinctly recognisable. In preparations of the dense part of the omentum, e.g. the pyloric part, prepared in the same way as above, one finds niunerous places quite superficially under the endothelium, where the branched cellular elements and also the lymph-canalicular system show a somewhat dif- ferent arrangement, the cells being arranged in small groups, and the individuals of one group being situated round a common centre. In these cases the cells are either very little branched towards this centre, or they touch each other even in a straight line, whereas they are provided with processes in the opposite direction, so as to join the neighbouring cells. In silver preparations the ground-substance of which is stained there are consequently to be found superficial groups of clear lacunae, which are separated from each other by silver lines, and which send off canaliculi in the opposite direction. This, to a