26 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. In that way one will be sure to find smaller or larger nodules, which are in all stages of conversion into fat tissue. [F'rom this it is also evident that the fat tracts show here the same relations to the surface endothelium as the perilymphangial nodules in general]. It is remarkable that the distribution of the perilymphangial nodules stands in an opposite relation to that of the fat tracts. The more perilymphangial nodides and tracts an omentiun contains the smaller is the number of the fat tracts, and vice versa. In well-fed half and full-grown dogs, and still more in cats and white rats, the omentmn shows only fat tracts and very few lymphangial nodules of a very small size, in a state where the capillary system is just de- veloping, whereas, in the omentum of rabbits, seldom, and then only to a limited extent, fat tracts appear. In the omentima of guinea-- pigs and that of the monkey the lymphangial nodules and fat tracts are pretty equal, even in the most favourable conditions. In the pleura mediastini there is a very much smaller tendency for the lymphangial nodules to become converted into fat tracts, whereas in the mesentery, even of the rabbit, the tendency is great; from which it is evident that the conversion of lymphangial nodules into fat tissue does not take place equally in all serous membranes, nor in all animals—the mesentery has the greatest, the plem'a mediastini the smallest tendency. In cats, dogs, and rats there is a much greater tendency than in guinea-pigs or monkeys, and the smallest is to be found in rabbits. There are two other points with regard to the fat tracts still to be mentioned, namely : 1. That as long as a lymphangial nodule does not become converted into a fat nodule there are always, as we have seen, numerous lymphoid cells to be found in it, which, as we have pointed out, are at least partly to be considered as offsprings of the branched cells of the stroma of the nodule. But as soon as a lym- phangial nodule becomes converted into a fat nodule the lymphoid cells become fewer, or, at any rate, are not to be foimd in the same number as before. We must therefore conclude that the surplus of nourishment which the cells of the matrix are provided with is all consumed in the production of the fat, whereas, previously, it had been employed for the production of lymph-corpuscles. After what