ANATOMY OF THE LYMPUATIC SYSTEM. 74 fascicular spaces covered on one side only by a spindle-shaped granular cell, that is by a flat-cell seen in profile; in other places the latter was seen to extend through the middle of the space. Besides these there were also spaces whose cells were seen from the surface pro- vided with a number of processes. In many of the spaces there were found migratory cells in addi- tion to the branched cells; and on one preparation I have observed a migratory cell migrating freely out of such a lymph lacuna into a neighbouring lymphatic vessel widely dilated and easily recognisable by its endothelium. In mesenteries only a little swollen by oedema the appearance of the dilated lymph-canalicular system could be fixed very easily by silver, by first pencilling the membrane carefully on one side, and then pouring the silver solution over this surface in situ; after having been washed with water, the omentum was kept in situ until the yellow-brown colour appeared. The examination of the cedematous omentum proved of great value for judging of the normal re]ations, especially those of the peri-lymphaugial nodules and the fat-tissue. In the former, one may very easily recognise the network of branched cells which form the matrix of the nodule ; farther, that this stands in direct continuity with the wall of a lymphatic vessel which exists on the border of the nodule, and is widely dilated. The endo-lymphangial nodules are also easily recognisable, their lymphatic vessel, viz. the lymphatic vessel in which they lie, being dilated by the presence of csdematous fluid. We now turn to the question whether the lymph-canalicular cells exhibit any alteration in acute inflammation, and if so, what that change is. I have had the opportunity on several occasions of examining the centrum tendineum of rabbits after forty-eight hours, in which peritonitis had been set up by the injection of several minims of dilute ammonia into the abdominal cavity; and on whose centrum tendineum the endothelium of the abdominal surface had quite disappeared over tracts of various size. These were simply treated with silver. The lymph-canalicular system of the abdominal serosa