44 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, rally completely injected after the natural injection with five per cent. Berlin blue, as described above. The efferent trunk of the posterior system is single on each side; it mounts obliquely towards the middle line, and opens into the thoracic duct near the point where the latter emerges from the dia- phragm. Each system communicates with the corresponding one of the other side by a few larger vessels. The vessels of each system have the following characters : the large vessels possess valves and a wall consisting of spindle-shaped endothelium; they are situated chiefly between the plem-al serosa and the tendons, or in the depth of that serosa. The capillaries that run into those vessels have no valves, are provided vsdth irregular excavations, and their wall consists of sinuous endothelium. There are two kinds of capillaries: a, such ones that chiefly lie in the plem-al serosa, and are of a variable breadth ; h, capillaries that lie only between the tendinous tissue. They run, consequently, in a straight course, in two directions, so that we may distinguish deep straight capillaries running in a circidar direction and superficial straight capillaries running in a radial direction. These two kinds of straight lymphatic capillaries communicate with each other generally at those points where they cross each other in such a way that an extremely short communication-branch exists where their walls come in contact; or' it is not seldom seen that a superficial straight capillary bends under a right angle, so as to con- tinue its com'se as a deep straight capillary. The deep straight capillaries represent the vessels of commimication between the super- ficial straight capillaries and the lymphatic vessels that lie in the plem'al serosa. As a rule, the deep straight capillaries, before they join a lymphatic trunk, run a short distance, in a more or less wa\'y course, between the tendon and the plem-al serosa. The relation between the straight lymphatic capillaries and those that lie between the tendon and the pleural serosa, or in the latter, can also be very clearly demonstrated in preparations prepared in the following way : the abdominal sm-face of the centrum tendineum of a rabbit just killed, after having been exposed, is pencilled and covered with water for a few seconds ; after that, the concavity of the centrum tendineum is covered with a quarter or half per cent, solution of