THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 40 puscles is going on from the endothelium of the lymphatics directly into the lumen of this latter. {cl.) Relation of the Lymphatic Vessels to the Surface of the Serous Membranes. It is held by many histologists that there exist in many serous membranes discontinuities between the endothelium of the sm-face, by which discontinuities—stomata—a superficial lymphatic vessel may commimicate with the free surface. That there must exist stomata on the abdominal surface of the centrum tendineum has been proved by the well-known experiments of Eeckling- hausen. After Eecklinghausen, several observers have shown the absorption of dissolved and undissolved substances, injected into the serous cavity, from the lymphatics of the serous membrane. There have been also several observers who tried to show on silver- stained preparations those stomata. They have, namely, shown that there exist small circular or angular dark or light fields between the common large polygonal endothelial cells. These smaU fields were either single or in small groups not very far apart from each other; they were of different size, and where they appeared to be regularly dis- tributed they were found to represent the centre of a larger or smaller group of endothelial cells, radiating towards that centre. That in many serous membranes stained with nitrate of silver such figures occur there can be no doubt whatever, but it is a quite dif- ferent question whether they correspond really to holes. For, on the one hand, it can be shown that these figures are sometimes to be found on places, and not very rarely, where there are no lymphatic vessels just below that part, e.g. on the centrum tendineum : on the other hand, in the same preparation, they are not to be found where they ought to be, namely, below where a superficial lymphatic vessel lies. Besides, from their irregailar distribution, their irregular shape and size, one would be more inclined to take them as accidental than as anatomical structm-es. The histological proof that lymphatic vessels stand freely in communication with the siurface has been brought forward until now,