GERMINATING ENDOTHELIUM. 9 perfectly spread out; the glass slide is raised out of the fluid, and the preparation is covered with a cover glass. Equally important are preparations stained with nitrate of silver solution ; the membrane is excised, together with the organs to which it is attached, e.g. intestine for the mesentery, sternum and peri- cardivun for the pleura mediastini, costal muscles with their corre- sponding ribs for the centrum tendineum, stomach spleen and pancreas for the omentmn of guinea-pigs and rabbits (for the omentum of the cat, dog, and monkey, this is unnecessary). The excised organs are placed in a large quantity of quarter or half per cent, solution of nitrate of silver for a few minutes, and then treated in the ordinary way. In mounting the preparations in glycerine the same precau- tions are necessary as in mounting the fresh preparations, as above mentioned, viz. those portions which are to be mounted are spread out on the glass slide under water, and covered afterwards with a cover glass, on the under surface of which a drop of glycerine has been pre- viously applied. A good plan is to pour over the membranes diluted serum before staining with silver. The risk of mechanical injury is best avoided by pouring the silver solution on the membranes in situ, and then cutting them out with their corresponding attachments, so as to transfer them to water. We may mention at present that in our farther investigations, especially in those of the cellular structures of the tissue and of the lymphatics, we have always found that the treat- ment of the serous membranes requires very great precautions against even slight mechanical injuries, for only then can the appearances of irregularities be avoided, which, especially in silver stained prepara- tions, are apt to confuse the observer. In the contrary cases, there may be foxmd appearances of not pre-existing structures, even with some regularity. It may not be unnecessary to make some remarks about the dark lines which appear on silver-staiaed preparations, as the boundaries of the endothelial cells. Some authors have tried to show that these lines correspond to a precipitation in a serous fluid which is accxi- mulated in furrows on the surface of the endothelium, the individual endothelial cells being somewhat convex on their upper surface. There will scarcely be anyone who will not admit that (1) there