THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 33 limn distinctly coloured ; in the tube lies the blood-vessel, the wall of which shows the spindle-shaped endothelium on its inner siuface. In this case, where the lymphatic appears, not, as in the common silver preparations, in the form of a clear space showing endothelial markings on a dark gxoimd, but as a wide tube, there is hardly any possible room for mistake, inasmuch as one can see, even with a low power, that the blood-vessel is contained, as if it were a thin rod, within the wide tube. In the first case, also, where the lymphatic shows itself as a clear space with endothelial markings, a mistake will not readily be made if one has before him an invagination extending over a long tract; for in that case it can be seen that the lymphatic makes certain bends, which affect both sides of it together—that is, the impression on one side of the vessel has its corresponding and complementary deflection on the other. The importance of this as a criterion will appear from the following considerations. The blood- vessel lying in a lymphatic has that sm-face which is directed towards the lumen of the lymphatic also covered by an endothelium. There appears, therefore, in the optical longitudinal section on each side of the vessel, an endothelial membrane, i.e. a membrane with oblong- nuclei disposed at regular intervals—the endothelium being seen of course in profile. It presents, therefore, the appearance as if a lym- phatic ran on each side of the vessel. In this manner the above- mentioned condition, viz. that the bendings of the lymphatic on both sides of the blood-vessel correspond to and complement each other, is of importance for deciding whether we have before us one lymphatic in which the blood-vessel is invaginated, or a pair of lymphatics. The lymphatics are also to be seen in the fresh omentum, provided that the part is mounted in serum and has not been subjected to any mechanical injury. After having studied the lymphatics in well- silvered preparations, both those accompanying the blood-vessels as well as the invaginating variety of them, one may recognise them also in fresh objects. They present themselves as broad tracts which appear to be bounded by a membrane with oblong nuclei disposed at regular intervals; that is, one sees the endothelial membrane in profile.