THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 55 examine the development of lymphatic capillaries in the omentum of the rabbit, and in the mesogastrium of the frog, as it may be easily observed in those places. We have already become acquainted with the fact that accumulations of branched lymph-canalicular cells form the foimdation of those peri-lymphangial patches and nodules which are supplied with blood-vessels, as also of those which as yet are with- out a blood supply. If we examine a number of such patches in suc- cessful pencilled and silvered preparations, in which the number of migi-atory cells is still inconsiderable, we may find, both amongst the buds which spring from the lymph-canalicular cells, but still remain connected with them, as also amongst the lymph-canalicular cells themselves, some individuals in whose interior a vacuole is contained. They are to be found of the most various size, and in every tran- sitional stage, from some in which the granular protoplasmic body, besides the vacuole, contains only a single oblong nucleus, which ia somewhat pushed to one side, to other large elements in which the protoplasmic body is spread out to form a thin granular mantle, in which at one point a constricted nucleus lies, or two nuclei, or even a number of nuclei at equal distances from each other. In the latter case, the wall appears on optical section to consist of spindle cells fused together by their extremities. Finally, when these interme- diate forms have been observed, we can easily understand the large spherical vesicles, whose wall is distinctly differentiated into separate endothelial plates. Further, it admits of no doubt that while a cell grows into such an endothelial vesicle, buds grow out from the proto- plasm of the cell towards its interior, i.e. towards the vacuole, which become separated off as young cells. In general, such endothelial vesi- cles are formed from limips which bud from the lymph-canaKcular cells, but in many cases also directly from the lymph-canalicular cells them- selves. In the latter case, we can still recognise, even in those elements which have already become transformed into vesicles of considerable size, processes through which the protoplasmic mantle is connected with the neighbouring lymph-canalicular cells. We have, therefore, here before us, m optima forma, the conversion of lymph-canalicular cells into endothelial vesicles, quite on the same principle which was shown by me to obtain in the developing blood-vessels of the embryo chick.