25 CELLULAE ELEMENTS OF THE GROUND-SUBSTANCE. out, that these placoids undergo rapid divisions ; one finds, namely, not only cells the nucleus of which is either constricted, or even divided, but the cells themselves show very distinct notches, and more or less deep furrows, by which they become separated into two parts of nearly equal size. From these facts we can deduce that by division of these placoids groups of cells result, which lie more or less close to each other, and which possess shorter and fewer processes than those which are to be met with in isolated ones. There are, finally, to be found intermediate stages between such vascularised lobules, the cells of which are not transformed into fat cells, and those above-mentioned vascularised true fat lobules. There can be, consequently, no doubt whatever that this hyaline body be- comes transformed into fat tissue in the way that its branched fiat placoids become transformed into ordinary fat cells, and that while doing so they proliferate by division, and that these groups are pro- vided with a special system of blood-vessels. The latter may already be found even when the cells of the matrix have not yet transformed into fat cells. After having described the development of fat tissue in the gela- tinous body of the infra-orbital fossa, we shall be able to deal with that of the omentum and of the mesentery more briefiy than we could otherwise have done, as we find in these membranes exactly the same relations. As regards the formation of fat cells, we find here the same relations. We have had the opportunity to remark that peri- lymphangial vascularised nodules develop from, and consist of, ac- cumulations of more or less flat and branched cells. We had further remarked that these nodules join so as to form whole tracts, which generally follow the course of the larger blood-vessels. We need now only add that if the branched cells which represent the matrix of those tracts become converted into fat cells as above described the result would be what is generally called a vascularised tract of fat cells. That the tracts of fat cells, as well as the more or less isolated fat lobules or fat nodules, are only transformed perilymphangial nodules can be very easily recognised by following a perilym- phangial tract along a large blood-vessel up to a neighbouring fat tract.