THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 47 These figiu-es, together with their explanation, will undoubtedly make these relations sufficiently clear. (c.) The Lymphatic Vessels of the Mesentery. The mesentery possesses, as it is known, two kinds of lymphatic vessels ; first, vessels which run from the intestine to the roots of the mesentery into the mesenteric glands; and, secondly, vessels which belong to the mesentery itself. The vessels of the first kind run in a radiatory direction and are situated in the chief trabecule of the mesentery, together with the large blood-vessels, which run to and from the intestine. These lymphatic vessels are distinguished by their nxunerous valves and by their continuous rich circular muscular coat. Their endothelium is spindle-shaped, like that in the lymphatic tnmks in general. The vessels of the second kind are: (a) large lymphatic vessels, which accompany also, like those of the first kind, the larger blood-vessels. They are either single or, generally, double: in the former case the lymphatic is situated between the arterial and the venous trunk ; in the latter the artery and the vein lie both between the two lymphatics. They are anastomosing with each other by a few wide branches. Here and there they possess a valve; they have no muscular coat; their coat consists only of one layer of endotheliiun, which is more or less elongated, spindle-shaped. In many places the breadth of the endothelial cells is not much inferior to the longi- tudinal diameter. The lymphatic vessels of this kind are very often found to invaginate the arterious or venous trunk for a longer or shorter distance, especially with their large sacciform dilatations. These dilatation-sinuses are constantly to be found on the lymphatics of mammals, as well as in those of frogs. Especially in rana tempo- raria, and in bufo, I have come across not a few mesenteries where, instead of lymphatic vessels which accompany the blood- vessels, there was a system of lymph-sinuses, situated behind each other and commimicating with each other by small openings. This depends veiy much upon the arrangement of the ground-substance, for in these latter cases there were large trabeculse in which the large blood-vessels and nerve-trunks were imbedded, from which