CELLULAE ELEMENTS OF THE GEOUND-SUBSTANCE. 23 The system of cell-plates, with their processes, can be brought into view very distinctly, and without great loss of time, by mounting the preparation in diluted Muller's fluid, instead of in serum or humor aqueiis, and they there become visible in fifteen minutes, or even less. Not all of the cells which we have designated above as being branched are flat and of the same size; generally they are in some degree flattened. The largest of these latter cover nearly the third part of a field (Hastnack -|), but there are many which are smaller. The question arises now, in what relation do the first-mentioned gi-anular spindle-shaped cells stand to those branched more or less flattened elements. If one compares a number of preparations it is obvious that in some of them the niunber of spindle-shaped elements is a very great one, and that they mostly run in one direction, whereas in some other ones there are only few to be found. As regards their aspect, these spindle-shaped cells resemble perfectly those which are to be foxmd in embryonal connective-tissue. If a preparation of the above-men- tioned substance, containing a great number of spindle-shaped ele- ments, is mounted in a large drop of serum or hiimor aqueus, and if that edge of the covering glass which lies parallel to the longitudinal axis of a certain number of the spindle-shaped elements is pushed slightly by a needle one can observe the remarkable fact that the coarsely granular spindle-shaped elements become all converted into pale, branched, partly finely-granular partly striated, plates, each of which contains a large flat ovoid nucleus. If, then, the cover-glass is again allowed to float back, the plates become again converted into spindle- shaped elements. In preparations which had been mounted only shortly before, the placoids which appear instead of the spindle-shaped elements are very faint, exactly as we saw them previously in fresh preparations, mounted only a very short time. This manipulation proves that the coarsely-granular spindle-shaped elements are not, in fact, spindle- shaped, but are perfectly identical with the above-mentioned placoids seen edgewise. Under a high power, and using sufficient care, one can easily observe by the above-mentioned manipidation how an in-