CELLULAR ELEMENTS OF TEE GROUND-SUBSTANCE. 15 great extent, resembles a group of endothelial plates branching out- wards. We shall return to these structxu'es afterwards, in the chapter on lymphatic vessels.' Besides the above-mentioned small young patches, we find patclies of the following various structure: a smaller or gTeater number of capillary blood-vessels are imbedded in a matrix, which contains besides a limited number of spherical lymphoid cells of different sizes, branched cells, lying more or less closely by each other; in some places, the matrix appears to be completely supplanted by these latter ones. Where they are not crowded together it is distinctly to be seen that they are provided with processes which join each other and those of the neighboiuing cells. In the intermediate portions between the latter and the former the cells become less branched, their processes much shorter. On negative silver-stained preparations, viz. in which the lymph- canaliculax system has remained clear, the lacimse of those cells appear to be separated from each other merely by lines in those places where the cells lie crowded together. From the fact that in positive silver-stained preparations the cells of the intermediate portions possess, instead of the single ovoid clear nucleus, a con- stricted or even a completely divided nucleus, and secondly, that the cell bodies themselves exhibit sometimes furrows like marks of > As the reader may have already observed, I have, as regards the cellular elements of the omentum, quite the same opinion as Rollett has of those of the cornea. In both cases the branched cells are more or less flattened parallel to the surface, and in both cases the lymph-canalicular system corresponds to those cells. In the omentum, as well as in the cornea, the migratory cells are always found in the lymph-canalicular system, and, as we shall see afterwards, in the oedematous omentum the lacuna and canaliculi may be distended by serous tluid and lymphoid corpuscles, which find their way through the lymph-canalicular system to the lymphatic vessels. Rollett has treated in his paper the branched corpuscles of the cornea and their lymph-canalicular system in such an exhaustive manner that it is hardly necessary to enter again into a controversy about the nature of the connective tissue corpuscles and the lymph-canalicular system of Reckling- hausen. As regards the serous membranes, there cannot be the slightest doubt about the ceUular elements of the ground-substance being more or less flattened branched-nucleated protoplasmic cells, and the lymph-canalicular system representing merely the spaces in the ground-substance for those cells; and I cannot agree by any means with the assertion of Schweiggcr-Seidol and Boll that the connective tissue corpuscles in general represent elastic plates which play only a passive part. We shall see afterwards that the proto- plasmic nature of the connective tissue cells of the serous membranes plays an important part in the normal condition, and still more in chronic inflammation.