64 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. freely on the surface, between the endothelium, by perpendicular canals. We shall show in the pathological part what great importance must be ascribed to these freely-projecting cell-processes; we call them pseudo-stomata. A peculiar relation exists between these pseudo- stomata and the young endothelium of the surface of those lymphatic structures, which consists in the fact that the cell-process representing the pseudo-stoma buds forth quite distinctly as a young cell. Of this I have convinced myself in such structures, chiefly in the omentum of the rabbit, but also in the omentum and pleura of the guinea-pig, cat, and dog, both in surface aspects and also especially in profile views. The nucleated buds, which, in form, size, and appearance, are not to be distinguished from young endothelial cells, are seen to project over the surface by a long thin peduncle. From the fre- quency with which we see these bud-like yoimg endothelial cells sending a fine process vertically downwards between the surround- ing young endothelial cells, we may conclude that a not incon- siderable part of the young cells which bud forth from the surface of a lymphangial nodule owe their origin to the pseudo-stomata. This process, as we shall see, plays an important part in chronic inflam- mation. (e.) Development of Lymphatic Capillaries. We intend here to consider the development of lymphatic capillaries only in so far as this takes place normally and to a relatively limited extent in serous membranes; in chronic inflammation we shall see that this development takes place in a far greater degree. We shall only correct in so far as negative pictures are meant by it. There was consequently no extreme necessity for Lavdovsky to claim priority for the discovery that the surface of serous membranes possesses a number of minute openings, which communicate with the lymph-canalicular system, since we contradict this statement when made with the mean- ing he applies to it. Least of all can Lavdovsky claim priority for the perpendicular lymphatic canals, of which we spoke on p. 19 of the preliminary communication of E. Klein and Burdon-Sanderson, and to which Lavdovsky chiefly referred, as we have seen that this is something radically different from his own views. What we designated per- pendicular lymphatic canals were branches of lymphatic vessels lined by endothelium, and opening freely on the surface.