16 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. division, we are justified in saying that the fact of the cells being in some parts of those patches more crowded, smaller, and less branched, is due to a division of the branched cells, and that in this way such a patch increases in breadth and thickness. From what has been said just now it is evident that the last mentioned patches are, as regards their structure, similar to those above mentioned, and that they are only further developed. As regards the spherical cells of different sizes previously men- tioned, it can be stated: first, that they lie in the lymph-canalicular system, as may be deduced from the negative silver-stained portions of these patches; secondly, that there exist all intermediate sizes between where a rounded nucleus is surrounded only by a very thin zone of protoplasm, up to cells which are twice as large as a common colourless blood-corpuscle. From what has been said at the commencement of this chapter we must claim also here, for at least some of the lymphoid cells, that they are derived from the branched cells of the matrix. Besides these patches, there exist in the omentum of rabbits a few other structures, which, although under a lens they do not seem to differ much from those previously mentioned, yet imder a higher power they exhibit between a network ►of capillary blood-vessels a munber of lymphoid corpuscles held together by a delicate reticulum of branched corpuscles, similar to the reticulum of adenoid tissue. A last form, which is also very interesting, and which is not very often to be foimd, is the following: from a tract which, besides a rich system of blood-vessels, shows the same structure as the one just before mentioned, or which tract contains only a larger artery and vein, a small artery comes off, dissolves itself into a network of capillary vessels, which join again into venous vessels, which retium to the previously mentioned tract. The matrix in which these capillaries lie consists merely of a regidar beautifid reticulum of nucleated- branched cells, without having any visible intercellular substance. Amongst the cells of the reticidum there are to be seen cells which are apparently spindle-shaped. These are situated generally in a row, accompanying the capillary vessels ; by lateral brandies they seem to ioin the branched cells of the reticulum. Looking at these apparently