70 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. tion. When all these conditions are absent, we may perhaps, as long as the growth has not reached too great an intensity, be able from its distribution and position to conclude that we have to do with a germination around the stomata. We shall, however, not undertake to make such a diagnosis where we find a large patch of germinating endothelium raised considerably over the surface, and covering nearly a whole field under the microscope. On a preparation which presents the appearances previously described there are to be seen many lymphatic vessels of the peritoneal surface of the centrum tendineum more or less filled with young cells, and widely distended. In a vessel of this kind, provided it is only partly filled with cells, we may recognise some of the latter as being products of endothelial cells on account of their size,'nucleus, and granulation. At the same time it can be made out, in one place or another, that a growth of the endothelium of a stoma is going on into the lumen of the lymphatic capillary in the form of a cone of young cells projecting free into its lumen, whereas the endothelial cells which represent the wall of the lymphatic are seen to be enlarged, distinctly granular, and their nuclei in the act of division. There cannot be the least doubt that (1) the changes and the growth of the endothelium round the stomata spread over the endothelium of that portion of the lymphatic vessel to which the stoma corresponds, and (2) that the young cells which result from the growth of the endothelium of the stoma fall partly into the corresponding lymphatic vessel, and partly into the abdo- minal cavity. I may now briefly describe the germination of the endothelium round the true stomata of the omentum of the guinea-pig. We have previously mentioned that those stomata occur abundantly on the lymphatic vessels of the omentum, and it may be simply stated in this place that the germination of their endothelium in animals which have become tuberculised from the abdominal cavity pro- ceeds in the same way as in the centrum tendineum. I refer to Figs. 42 and 45, where undoubtedly the fact comes out that the young cells become detached into the lymphatic vessels. In order to become acquainted with these conditions, it is necessary not to confine one's self to parts far advanced in the morbid process, because on them the