CELLULAE ELEMENTS OF THE GROUND-SUBSTANCE. 29 sometimes find elements which appear like nobs on the branched cells of the lymph-canalicular system, and which perfectly resemble lymph corpuscles. A fact we have had already opportmiity to refer to is that near the large blood-vessels similar smaller or larger masses of branched cells are to be found which mostly form oblong nodtdes and cords, which begin now to have a special system of blood-vessels of their own. These nodules and cords are exactly like those described in the omentiun, namely, those which we described under the name of perilymphangial nodules and tracts. Their intimate structure, their migratory cells, the relation of these to the branched cells of the matrix, the relation of these nodules to fat tissue, is here exactly the same as in the omentum. Especially worthy of notice is the fact that in guinea-pigs I have met with mesenteries which exhibited an immense development of these perilymphangial tracts, whereas in cats and dogs the perilymphangial tracts have a great tendency to convert themselves into fat tracts. As regards the cellular elements of the abdominal serosa of the centrum tendineum, there is very little to be said. They differ in no respect from those we have found in the mesentery : where the larger blood-vessels branch, and where, as we shall see, lymph-capillaries are to be found forming a network, there we find also that the branched cells of the serosa are situated nearer to each other. Amongst those we find also here groups of flattened cells, which are connected with each other only by very few short processes, or even touch each other end to end. In correspondence with this arrange- ment, the lymph-canalicular system also becomes modified, namely, contains groups of lacunas, which communicate with each other by a few very short canaliculi. The ceils of the plem-al serosa of the centrum tendineum can be recognised more easily on pencilled silver preparations than those of the abdominal serosa. We there see, close imder the endothelium of the surface, a layer of very large flat, branched ceUs, which lie mostly isolated, but in the neighboui-hood of those places where the vena cava and aorta pass through the dia- phragm, and also in the median portions of the centrum tendineum, are found in larger groups closely together, so that in many places there