42 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. is the best plan: the anterior wall of the chest of a just-killed rabbit or g'uinea-pig having been removed, the vena cava ascendens is ligatm-ed near its entrance into the auricel, the pleura separated from the diaphragm, and the lungs and heart cut out. In this way the pleural sm-face of the diaphragm can be exposed without being smeared with blood. After this, each half of the centrum tendineum is pencilled separately two or three times with a fine camel's-hair brush dipped in serum, commencing in the middle line, and carrying the brush outwards; a quarter or half per cent, solution of nitrate of silver is poured on the pencilled surface, and is allowed to remain there for three to five minutes, after which it is replaced by distilled water: this is changed two or three times. After that the whole diaphragm, together with the ring of cartilage and bone to which it is attached, is cut out, brought into a large capsule with water. As soon as the plem-al surface assumes a yellowish-brown colour, the centrum tendineum is divided into a number of pieces, which are floated on object glasses and mounted in glycerine. In a similar way one proceeds if it is intended to demonstrate the lymphatics of the abdominal surface of the centrum tendinemn; the abdominal surface, having been exposed, is pencilled and treated as above. The lymphatics of the diaphragm may be also injected, either by Recklinghausen's method, that is, by injecting a few c.c. of milk into the abdominal cavity of a living rabbit or guinea-pig, and by killing the animal after 12 to 24 hours (it is desirable to stain afterwards the centrum tendineum with silver) ; or by the method of Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel, viz. by pouring on the abdominal sm-face of the diaphragm of a fresh-killed rabbit a few c.c. of a watery solution of Berlin blue, in which a fine precipitate of Berlin blue granules had been effected by the addition of a small quantity of alcohol, and by carrying an artificial respiration on for 15 to 30 minutes. A more simple method, which gives better results, is the following: into the ab- dominal cavity of a living middle-sized rabbit or guinea-pig, which had been left without food for 24 homs, 5 to 10 c.c. of a five per cent, solu- tion of Brucke's Berlin blue are injected; after 4 to 8 hom-s the animal is killed by bleeding from the criural artery or by strangulation, and is allowed to become perfectly cool. In exposing the plem'al surfiice of