ALTERATION OF CELLULAR ELEMENTS OF MATRIX. 77 made out, especially of small finely-granular cells, which may be taken in all probability as emigrated colourless blood corpuscles. In lymphatic nodules which lie in the neighbourhood of a vessel, and which possess either a scanty system of vessels or even none whatever, and which, according to the description given in Section I., are to be regarded as being in an early stage of development, we are likely to find a number of the lymph-canalicular cells which possess on their body or on a process, buds of various sizes in such a number as is not to be found in the uninflamed state; the condition of their nucleus is usually that of division, sometimes it is divided into two or three small nuclei. From these appearances we may conclude that here also an active inflammatory change had taken place. Of the greatest importance as regards the changes of the branched cells of the lymph-canalicular system of the mesentery and omentum of the guinea-pig and dog was the examination of these membranes in the oedematous condition during the second or third day of the inflammation. If, after what I had seen on the centrum tendineum and omentum of the rabbit, I had had still any doubt about the active participation of the cells of the lymph-canalicular system in the production of young cells, the study of the oedematous mesentery of those animals just mentioned would have cleared up completely every doubt. (b.) Chronic Inflammation.—The most important changes in branched cells of the lymph-canalicular system occur in chronic in- flammation, which may arise from the most various causes. "We -will commence with the centrum tendineum. Centrum Tendineum.—If we prepare a centrum tendineum of a guinea-pig which has tubercular nodules on the centrum tendineum, by pencilling its pleural surface and subsequent staining with silver solution, we shall obtain a satisfactory vmderstanding of the changes of the cells of the lymph-canalicular system if the preparation is a successful one, that is, if the system of lymphatic vessels and lymph canals is plainly and beautifully to be seen. Besides places where the lymphatic vessels and the system of lymph-canals, as well as the cells of these, present no deviation from the normal condition, there are spots to be met with where a distinct change has occm^red, the