73 ALTEKATION OF CELLULAR ELEMENTS OE MATBIX, 2. Alteration of the Cellular Elements of the Matrix. ^(a.) Acute Inflammation.—The object most suited for the study of the cells of the lymph-canalicular system is afforded by the serous membranes in the inflamed state, and, above all, the omentum minus and mesentery in the condition of acute oedema. I have had the opportunity of examining these membranes in a very large number of guinea-pigs, rabbits, and dogs, in a condition where they were swollen by oedema to five times their normal thickness or more ; and here the best results attended the examination, both in the fresh condition and after treatment with silver. In guinea-pigs, as well as in dogs, I induced septicaemia by injecting into the abdominal cavity peritoneal and pleural exudation fluids, which were obtained by certain pyaemic processes of an extremely acute process (compare the Eeport for the Privy Council by Dr. Sanderson, 1872). In rabbits I have seen in some cases cedema of the omentum coming on after the injection of diluted ammonia into the abdominal cavity, and once after the in- jection of starch. After the first twelve to seventy-two hours, csdematous mesen- teries presented on those places where the oedema was very consider- able, the connective tissue bundles much separated from each other ; the cells of the matrix very distinct and isolated. The latter were recognisable in fresh preparations on account of their protoplasm being granular: they were distinctly branched, and connected with each other by processes of extraordinary length. Many appeared in profile, and presented themselves as granular spindle-shaped cells. On the spots where the cedema was not very considerable, the investi- gation was even more instructive, for there the connective tissue bundles of the matrix were not separated much from each other. They were only transparent to an extraordinary degTee, whereas the lymph- canalicular system was recognisable as unusually dilated in its lacunae and connecting canals. Here also there were met with appearances which correspond to those represented by Schweigger-Seidel on trans- verse vertical sections through the cornea, namely, the dilated inter-