13 CELLULAE ELEMENTS OF THE GROUND-SUBSTANCE. Omitting at present everything- except the cellular elements of the groimd-substance, let ns direct our attention to the very smallest isolated patches recognisable as such under the microscope, and let us anticipate that there are no capillary blood-vessels in them, and tlaat tlie groimd-substance' is perfectly unstained. The first thing that strikes one are brownish-coloured structures of an irregular shape, that is to say, structures which contain larger and smaller brownish granules; in most of them an ovoid sharply-outlined nucleus, some- times with a nucleolus, or a constricted nucleus, or even a few small nuclei, are to be seen. These brownish cells are of a different size, but always much larger than colourless blood corpuscles. Their shape is irregular, as has been already stated : their body is beset with a variable number of smaller or larger blunt or roundish prominences. Some of these cells are sharply defined, others are on one side more or less distinctly continuous with the basis on which they lie. It is clear that they correspond, as regards shape, to migratory cells. Be- sides these cells, there is to be found a limited number of small granular corpuscles, with one or two small nuclei, which are perfectly like lymphoid corpuscles. In some places they are in such a close connection with the above-mentioned large cells that they resemble knobs which are in a state of separation from them. As we have already mentioned, the ground-substance is imstained. In it we find a network of a finely granular substance, which is stained slightly yellowish. This network consists of large plates, connected with each other by shorter or longer tracts of different breadth. In the plate-like enlargements one recognises a sharp-outlined oblong nucleus, with one or two nucleoli, or a constricted nucleus, or a nucleus which has almost divided into two. In the latter instances, the granular matrix is darker stained in the immediate neighbom-hood of the nuclei. I will refer the reader to Fig. 30, which represents such a small patch : a represents the network of the finely granular sub- stance (as this network is represented only in one layer, all of the processes which join the plate-like enlargements are not represented in the figm-e); b represents the above-mentioned irregular-shaped, large, coarsely granular cells. It is evident from this figure that we have before us a network of branched, more or less flattened, cells,