CELLULAR ELEMENTS OF THE GEOUND-SUBSTANCE. 27 has been said above about the transformation of the branched cells of the stroma into fat cells, it is unnecessary for me to warn the reader against the possible assumption that in the transformation of lymphangial nodules into fat nodules the lymph-corpuscles are the elements which become converted into fat-cells—according to the previous assertions of histologists—and consequently we could easily understand why the ntunber of these lymph-corpuscles decreases as this transformation is going on. For in contradiction to such as- sertions we have the above stated fact that the fat cells are trans- formed branched cells of the stroma of the nodule. Besides, the decrease of the lymph-corpuscles can easily be explained in another way. We have seen that the branched cells of the stroma of the nodule lie in the corresponding lymph-canalicular system, together with the lymph-corpuscles. Under ordinary circumstances, one must suppose that the lymphoid corpuscles, after they have detached, viz. constricted, themselves from those branched cells, are carried away into the lymphatic vessels, into which, as we shall see afterwards, that lymph-canalicular system leads. As soon as the branched cells of the matrix become converted into fat cells the production of new lymph-corpuscles is diminished to a very great extent, and, conse- quently, there is very little here that can be carried away. 2. The second point we wish to call attention to is the fol- lowing : the lymphangial nodules and tracts gTow relatively quicker when they are going to become converted into fat tracts. That is seen best in the mesentery. Here, for example, in cats and in rabbits it is very easy to find that the number and size of lymphangial nodules and cords increases very much in the neighbom-hood of fat tracts. It is plain, therefore, after all we have said about the fat tracts, that we are in agreement with Fleming in saying that fat cells are transformed branched cells, but that we are not in agreement with that observer in saying that fat tissue develops in the adventitia of arteries. What we have already pointed out is that the formation and growth of the lymphangial nodules is generally, not always though, closely related to the larger blood-vessels, and we shall see in one of the following chapters that the development of the lymph- angial nodules, and consequently also that of the fat nodules and fat