THE LYIVIPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEEOUS MEMBEANES^ 41 to be met with. Most generally it is the case where a lymphatic vessel accompanying a vein gives off a short side-branch, which ends blindly in the form of a sac. Into this terminal lymph-sac there exists an invagination of a system of blood capillaries belonging to that venous trimk. There may occur a growth of the endothelimn of the one wall of the lymph-sac towards the wall of the opposite side in the form of a cellular network, from which, on the one hand, young cells become separated, and which, on the other hand, gradually comes to resemble an adenoid reticulum. In this manner an endo-lymph- angial nodule is consequently produced. The other form of develop- ment of endo-lymphangial nodules and cords is also tolerably frequent, the form, namely, where a lymphatic vessel accompanying a large blood-vessel possesses a sacciform dilatation in which a number of capillary blood-vessels lie. By the outgrowth of the endothelial wall of the lymphatic, in form of a cell network, towards the liunen of the sac, an endo-lymphangial nodule or cord is formed. (h.) The Lymphatic System of the Centrum Tendineum of the Diaphragm. Eecklinghausen was the first to assign to the lymphatic vascular system of the centrum tendineum an adequate importance, having there previously demonstrated the lymphatics by silver and by natural filling of these from the peritoneal cavity. Ludwig and Schweigger- Seidel have amplified the results of Eecklinghausen. My re- searches do not only confirm those of the authors just mentioned, but complete them to a considerable extent. I will first describe the methods by which the lymphatic vessels of the diaphragm may be demonstrated. First, the method employed by Eecklinghausen, that is, pencilling the plem-al sm-face of the centrum tendineum with a fine camel's-hair brush dipped into seriun, and subsequent staining the centrum tendineum with half per cent, of silver-solution. By this method the lymphatic vessels of the pleura serosa are shown. To obtain perfect preparations of these lymphatics, the following