ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 6 of the cell; the cell possesses in some cases a more or less distinct constriction between the two nuclei, and the cilia of the surface have become very delicate and short. Finally, there may be seen endothelial cells without cilia, which consist of two nearly spherical portions held togetlier by a short neck ; each portion possesses a spherical, sharp-outlined nucleus, with clear contents and a shining nucleolus. Mr. Francis Darwin showed to me a preparation of the mesogas- trium of Rana temporana, where there were to be seen germinating endothelial cells that perform distinct amoeboid movements. Fig. 52 shows such young endothelial cells, which bud from a freely-projecting knob ; the cells are in amceboid movement. A similar, but not qmte so abimdant, germination may be observed on the peritoneal surface of the septum cisternae lymphaticae magnse of the frog, especially on the endothelial cells which surround, or more correctly speaking, which line the stomata first described by Dogiel and Schweigger-Seidel. These authors found on the peritoneal surface of the septum of female frogs, during the spawning season, ciliated endothelial cells of a nearly cylindrical shape, in small groups near the stomata. I shall turn to the stomata afterwards. At present I wish only to mention that dming the winter months, in some septa besides the germinating mostly ciliated endothelial cells, there exist shorter or longer tracts, which project more or less freely on the peritoneal surface, and which are covered with polyhedral, sometimes ciliated endothelial cells. Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel first called attention to the differ- ence which exists as regards the endothelium of different portions of the peritoneal surface of the centrum tendineum of the diaphragm of rabbits. These authors have shown that the endothelial cells, which are situated over the straight lymphatic channels, between the tendon bundles, are of a smaller size than the endothelial cells which lie over the tendon bundles themselves. They assert also that there exist sometimes groups of lymphoid corpuscles, which are continuous with, or properly speaking, derived from, those stripes of small endothelial cells previously mentioned. I am able not only to confirm this latter observation, but also to