36 ANATOMY OF THE LYIMPHATIC SYSTEM. they stand to the actual lymphatic vessels. We have already stated that the larger patches are provided with a system of blood-vessels. Disregarding at present the exact details, we shall merely mention that this system consists of an afferent arteriole, efferent veins, and intermediate capillaries. Regarding, now, the lymphatic system of these patches, it is always to be observed that the efferent vein, more seldom also the afferent artery, is accompanied by at least one capil- lary lymphatic, or is even invaginated in one such. At the point where the vein becomes the capillary—that is, where it enters the patch —the lymphatic as such ternainates, that is to say, its hitherto sharply-defined wall and covering of simious endothelium ceases, and only the lymph-canalicular system appears in its place. There can be no doubt whatever, if a favourable point is closely observed, that at the point the lumen of the lymphatic vessel on the one hand loses itself in reality in a labyrinth of spaces, which consist of lacunae with vmiting canals, representing the lymph-canalicular system, and, on the other hand, the endothelial plates of the lymphatic are continued as branched cell-plates. The appearances just now mentioned correspond to what Reckling- hausen first described as to the origin of the lymphatic capillaries in the centrum tendineum of the rabbit, with the addition of the fact that the endothelium continues itself ill the lymph-canalicular sys- tem as branched cell-plates. We call, therefore, these patches or nodules peri-lymphangial nodules. When the lymphatic capillary issuing from the nodide is of the invaginating kind, as in Fig. 40, one may see at any time several points at which the lymphatic vessel throws out one or the other of its branches to the lymph-canalicular system of the surrounding tissue. We come now to the consideration of the important relation of that kind of nodules which we have described in Chapter II. imder c. We find, for example, a wide lymphatic vessel invaginating a venous trunk; the vein collects a small number of capillaries, which come off from a small arterial branch. The lymphatic vessel, however, does not cease to exist as such at the point where the capillaries debouch in the vein, as in the former case, but continues on to the