BLOOD-VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 69 which, without joining the other capillaries of the nodule, forms a pool and passes into a vein. The part to which this capillary loop belongs may already be clearly recognised to be a young developing nodule. Now, between this simple capillary loop and the above-mentioned completely developed blood-vascular system, the most various interl mediate stages may be found; and it becomes a question whether in time a part of the afferent limb of such a capillary loop becomes an artery as the growth of the nodule goes on, and whether a portion of the afferent Kmb becomes developed into a vein. My researches on this point have led to no positive result. I could find no stand-point from which I might arrive at a positive conclusion, for instance, that the artery of a young nodule had been developed from what was originally a capillary vessel. I cannot, however, give a decidedly negative answer, since one is forced to assume, partly from the com- parison of nodules in different stages of development, and partly from general embryology, that this really is the case. We now pass to the consideration of the second point, viz. the development of capillary blood-vessels in the nodules. Absolutely the best object for study is the omentum of the rabbit. Both fresh objects examined in serum, and pencilled preparations slightly impregnated with silver, give exceUent results. If attention be given to a series of young patches, in which the branched ceUs of the matrix are clearly recognisable, and not obscured by the presence of migratory cells; and in which, moreover, only a very limited number of capillaries is formed, we see immediately that the wall of these capillaries is protoplasmic to a very great extent; and we can also see, when we have before us a nucleus on the upper or lower wall of the capiUary, that the part immediately surrounding the nucleus is distinctly granular, the neighbouring portions graduaUy less sp, until finally the waU becomes hyaline. In good sHvered objects we can follow the endothelial markings of such capiUaries of young nodules only for a short distance at their commencement and termination, %.e. at the parts nearest to the artery and vein. In fidly-developed patches the endothelial marking is distinctly to be recognised in the capillaries. Accordingly, we must consider those capillaries whose walls still distinctly retain their protoplasmic character as yoimg