ANATOMY OF THE LYJMPHATIC SYSTEM. 82 capillaries, viz. the formation of endo-lymphangial nodules and cords in chronic inflammation, as it occurs in the omentum and pleura mediastini of tuberculised guinea-pigs, in the mesentery of tuber- culous monkeys, in the omentum of rabbits, some of the lymphatics of which were plugged up by parasites (ova of cysticercus), and in the mesentery of cats, some of the lymphatics of which contained ova of nematodes. BIBLIOGBAPHY. EecJclinghausen: On f he Eesorption of Fat. Virchow's Archiv, vol. 36. Recklinghausen: The Lymphatics and their Eelation to the Connective Tissue. Berlin, 1862. ISchweigger-Seidcl and Bogiel: On the Peritoneal Cavity in Frogs, and their Connection with the Lymphatic System; in ' Arbeiten aus der physiolog. Anstalt zu Leipzig,' 1866. Lvdwig and Sckweiggcr-Scidel: On the Centrum Tendineum of the Diaphragm. Ibidem. Suhweigger-Seidel: On the Treatment of Animal Tissues with Nitrate of Silver, etc. Ibidem. Bollett: Ai-ticle Cornea in Strieker's Handbook. Schweigger-Seidel: On the Cornea, in 'Arbeiten aus der physiolog. Anstalt zu Leipzig,' 1869. Boll: On the Structure and Development of the Tissues, in Max Schultze's Archiv, vol. vii., part 4. Knauff: Centralblatt fiir medizin. "Wissenschaften,^August 1867. EecMinghausen : Article Lymphatics, in Strieker's Handbook. Flemming: On the Development of Fat-cells. Max Schultze's Archiv, vol. vii., part 1. Toldt: On the Histology and Physiology of Fat-tissue. Sitzungsber. d. "Wiener k. Aca- demie d. Wissensch., vol. Ixii., part 4, 1870. Lavdovsky: Centralblatt fiir Inedizin. Wissensch., 1872. Afonassiew: Virchow's Archiv, vol. xliv. ^ Strieker: See Strieker's Handbook, chap, xxxviii. Arnold: Virchow's Archiv, vol. liii. Rindfleisch: Pathologische Histologie. Ranvier: Corveil and Eanvier's Normal and Pathological Histology. Kundrai: Medicin. Jahrbiicher in Vienna ; ed. by Strieker, vol. i., part 1. Burdon-Sanderson : Eeport of the medical officer of the Privy Council, 1867 and 1868. Klebs: Virchow's' Archiv, vol. xliv. E, Klein: Quarterly Journal of Microscopical Science, January 1872.