THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEEOUS MEMBRANES. 43 the diaphragm, we find in most cases a complete injection of the lymphatics. In healthy guinea-pigs the injection is hardly ever so complete as in rabbits. From Eecklinghausen it is well known that the very abmidant lymphatics of the centrum tendineum are distinguishable into lym- phatic trunks and lymphatic capillaries, the former being provided with valves and lined by spindle-shaped endothelium, the latter by their variable lumen, the numerous excavations, their want of valves, and their sinuous endothelium. Eecklinghausen states that some of the lymphatic capillaries of the pleural serosa terminate blindly, like a horn cm-ved inwards, and that they dissolve themselves at these places in the lymph-canalicular system. Ludwig and Schweigger- Seidel have fm-ther shown that the lymphatics of the plem-al serosa of the centrum tendineum of the rabbit stand in communication with lymphatic vessels, which run between the tendon-bimdles; these being arranged in an abdominal radiating and a plem-al circular layer, the lymphatics which run between them have, consequently, a radiating and circular course, and the former are called by L. and S.S. superficial, the latter, deep lymphatic chaimels. My researches teach me the following as regards the distribution of the lymphatics in the rabbit: the lymphatics of the centrum tendineum are for each half arranged in two systems, an anterior and posterior. The vessels of the anterior system are distributed upon the outer and anterior (that is larger) portion of the anterior quadrant, and upon the outer (that is smaller) portion of the posterior quadrant. Those of the posterior system are distributed upon the inner posterior (that is smaller) portion of the anterior and upon the inner (that is larger) portion of the posterior quadrant. (The relative number of lymphatics is greater in the posterior quadrant than in the anterior). The efferent trunks of the anterior system course along the pars costalis of the diaphragm, and imite on the posterior surface of the xiphoid cartilage on each side, usually to one or two large vessels, which run along with the mammary vessels towards the sternal gland. On their way they join with those lymphatics that come from the intercostal spaces. It may be mentioned that the sternal gland is found gene-