THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OP THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 37 artery in such a way that the whole system of the capillaries is invagi- nated in a sacciform dilatation of the lymphatic vessel. Not till the root of the artery is reached does the lymphatic as such cease to exist, at which point it loses itself in the lymph-canalicular system ac- companying the artery. Thus we have before us here a case where a vein is invaginated in a lymphatic vessel, while the system of capil- laries belonging to it hangs freely in a lymph-sac, which is a direct continuation of the lymphatic tube. A modification of this form is the following:—A lymphatic vessel that simply accompanies a vein possesses a blind sacciform dilatation, in which the system of capillaries belonging to the vein is inserted like the glomerulus of a Malphigian corpuscle of the kidney. We have already mentioned that in the ease where a blood-vessel is invaginated the blood-vessel itself possesses on its outer wall, viz. on that diverted towards the lumen of the lymphatic, an endothelial covering, which exactly resembles that forming the outer wall of the invaginating lymphatic. On the invaginated capillaries the same is to be seen, that is to say, besides the endothelium forming the outer wall of the common lymph-sac, there is an endothelial covering outside the capillaries. From this it is clear that the two kinds emunerated of invaginated capillary net- work are identical. In both cases we have an outer wall of endo- thelium for the lymph-sac, and an endothelial wall around the capillaries. The second case of invagination of the capillary system is more frequent than the first, for the reason that the case of a lymphatic vessel simply accompanying a vein is more frequent than the case in which the vein is invaginated. So long as the system of capillary blood- vessels is small there is nothing further in the lymph-sac to be seen, except here and there a migratory cell. Besides these, however, one finds nodular structm-es which resemble those just mentioned in some respects, but differ from them in other respects. We will direct the attention of the reader to Fig. 50 on Plate X. and Fig. 43 on Plate VIII. In Fig. 50 we see that from the endothelial outer wall of a capillary vessel branched nucleated protoplasmic bodies extend to that of a neighbouring capillary; these occiu", therefore, in the liunen of