GEEMINATING ENDOTHELIUM. 7 complete it to the extent that there exist groups or tracts of germi- nating endothelium in rabbits as well as in guinea-pigs, cats, dogs, and monkeys, which, as we shall see afterwards, stand in an intimate relation to lymphatic vessels. Somewhat different in its arrangement is the germinating endo- thelium of the mesentery of frogs, cats, dogs, and monkeys, viz. in these membranes they occur only in groups of less than five endo- thelial cells, mostly two or three. They are also of a polyhedral shape, consisting of a distinctly granular protoplasm, with a con- stricted or double vesicular nucleus; their size is considerably smaller than that of the common endothelial plates sm^rounding them. On fresh preparations, which have been mounted in serum with great care, they appear as granular bodies projecting from the surface like buds; on preparations stained with silver solution, they appear generally beset with brownish granules. There exists a great variety as regards the niunber of such groups in a given field. Searching the siuface of the membrane under a magnifying power of about 200, one passes two or three fields where there are no gxoups; whereas, in a neighbouring field one meets with half-a-dozen or even a dozen of them. They are to be found over those parts which contain large blood-vessels quite as often as over the intermediate portions. These structures are not to be confounded with those very small figm-es which occur on silver-stained preparations, isolated or in small groups, amongst the large endothelial fields: a part of those small fields may correspond to young endothelial cells if they are distinctly granular. If one examines carefully the surface of a silver-stained mesentery of the frog, one will find that the large common endothelial plates, which in intensely-stained preparations show a clear nucleus in a brownish cell substance, do not touch each other everywhere by means of the well-known more or less wavy lines, but that these silver lines in some places appear to be replaced by a branched cor- puscle, the body of which is situated at the point of junction of a number of endothelial cells, and the processes of which stretch between these endothelial cells so as to become identified with their silver lines.