ANATOIMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 18 to form tracts, and that they project generally only over one surface of the membrane. The larger ones are provided with a special system of more or less numerous cai3illary blood-vessels. They are to be met with also here, either along the larger blood-vessels, or isolated at those points to which a number of thin connective-tissue trabe- culsB radiate. The older the animal the larger and more numerous nodules are to be found, and the thicker and longer are the tracts they form. In young animals, their number is very limited, and they are of so small a size that they are to be recognised only under the microscope. Before considering their minute structure, we wish to call the attention of the reader to the following points:—All these nodular and cord-like structures we have referred to in this chapter belong, if I may so say, to the proper ground-substance of the membrane. "We have seen in the first chapter that the germinating endothelium may form small nodular bodies on the surface of the membrane, besides being found on the surface of the nodular structures previously mentioned. If we look at a very small, that is a very young nodule, which can only be discovered under the microscope as such, and is isolated in the fenestrated membrane, we find in a pencilled silver-stained preparation, in which, like in those we have described in the rabbit's omentvun, the ground-substance has remained nearly perfectly un- stained, whereas the cellular elements are distinctly visible by their yellowish or brownish granules, we find, I say, also here, that the ground-substance contains more or less flat branched-protoplasmic cells with oblong nuclei. These cells are more or less crowded together, and join one another by their processes to form a network. The nucleus is generally single, and contains one or two nucleoli; sometimes the nucleus is constricted, or even divided into two. Migratory cells are also to be found in these places, which either resemble lymphoid cells, or which are large and coarsely granular. There is one point which we need merely allude to here, having entered into it fully in speaking of the rabbit's omentum, viz. that some of the larger migratory cells form a distinct continuum with one of those branched cells, by means of a longer or shorter neck, that