28 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. tracts stands only in so far in a relation to the blood system as a very active growth of capillary blood-vessels takes place in the lymphang-ial nodules. We may say, further, that we consider fat tissue, in agreement with Toldt, to be a special sort of glandular tissue, for it develops from a special tissue, i.e. from lymphangial nodules, which, as we have seen, have very much to do with the for- mation of lymph-corpuscles, just as a lymphatic gland has. We have still to make a few remarks about the mesogastrium of frogs. There are not seldom nodules to be found in the ground-sub- stance, which are of a spherical shape, sometimes situated so closely to each other that they almost coalesce, so as to form a cord, and which are not always near the large blood-vessels. They have a structure which resembles in all respects that of lymphatic follicles. As regards the mesentery, there is very little remaining to be said, partly because we have already discussed the ceUular elements of the omentum, and partly because we shall return to the subject of the cellular elements of the mesentery in the chapter on inflammation, the cellidar elements in the inflamed state being very much easier to study than in the normal. This is especially true of frogs and cats, in which animals chronic inflammation occurs accidentally, in consequence of parasites which find their way from the intestine, through the lymphatics of the mesentery, to the mesenteric glands. The cellular elements of the groimd-substance of the mesentery are in general more or less flat branched ; in their structure, size, and nucleus they are not different from those in other serous membranes. In frogs and monkeys, as well as in cats and dogs, I have not unfre- quently seen, on pencilled silver preparations, places where the branched cells of the lymph-canalicular system appeared to undergo division. In some the nucleus is divided ; in others the body of the cells itself exhibits a cross mark between the two nuclei, so that then the body of the cell consists of two halves, touching each other in a straight line. Sometimes a group of three or fom* of them were touching each other in straight lines, either situated all round a common centre, or arranged in a chain one after the other. In general, these phenomena are seen to take place near the large blood-vessels. There, also, we