THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OP THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 85 along the sides of the blood-vessels. For it is easy to understand that this appearance might simply be due to the folded walls of the collapsed lymphatics, and the migratory cells be actually in the lumen of the lymphatics. That there actually occur near the vascular trimks occasional aggregation of lymph-canalicular cells and migratory cells is another and different fact to which we have already directed attention. We come now to the important questions—Do the lymphatics in the rabbit's omentum form a closed vascular system, or do they take origin among the tissues ? and. In what way do the lymphatics stand related to the above-mentioned patches and cords ? The answer to the first question will become obvious when we have first considered the second question attentively. We have already mentioned that in negative-pencilled prepara- tions, as well as in positive, one can convince himself that at certain points the lacunae, or lymph-canalicular cells respectively, are so closely pressed together that they come to be arranged in lines; that is, they are not united by canals or processes in their respective cases, but simply joined to one another like the cells of an endothelium. This appearance we shall call that of simple lacunae, understanding thereby the larger lacunae formed by the fusion of a group of lacunar spaces of the lymph-canalicular system, and lined, therefore, on one side with cell-plates arranged like an endothelium. We have already stated, however, that these isolated simple lymph-lacunaa are con- nected by means of canals with the isolated lacunae of the adjoining lymph-canalicular system (and the outermost cells, respectively, by processes with the adjoining cells ;) and we shall now add that those simple lymph-lacunae are situated quite superficially—that is, imder the endothelium of the surface—and are but seldom met with in the ground-tissue itself. We may at the same time mention, in connec- tion with those isolated lacunae, also the simple lymph-lacunee that occur in the large-sized patches, concerning which we have already stated that they consist only of an agglomeration of more or less branched cells, with the young cells belonging to them and lying with them in the lymph-canalicular system. In this same kind of patches and cords there is illustrated yet another interesting relation in which 1) 2