ANATOIVIY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 12 that in full-grown animals there exist only tracts and large patches, as there exist also here, as has been already mentioned, smaller patches situated laterally to the tracts. It may be deduced from this that in the omentum there is going on a continuous growth and new- growth of opaque patches, which, by growing in length and coalescing in the direction of their longitudinal axis, form tracts. A portion of the fresh omentmn is a very imfit object for the study of the cellidar elements of the ground-substance : besides the above-mentioned germinating endothelium, only more or less nu- merous migratory cells can be seen on and in the patches and tracts. There is only one mode of preparing that gave me good results, that is, the mode of staining the fresh omentimi with silver solution after having pencilled it gently on one surface. I proceed in the following way : a rabbit is killed by bleeding, the stomach is exposed; after having pushed the intestine to the right side, the free surface of the omentum is pencilled several times, from the large curvatme towards the diaphragm, with a fine camel's hair pencil moistened with fluid of the abdominal cavity. After that, a quarter or half per cent, solution of nitrate of silver is allowed to flow over the omentmn from a large capillary tube, until the membrane has become slightly milky (one to two minutes are generally sufficient)^; after that, the stomach, together with the omentum, spleen, pancreas, and a portion of the duodenum is cut out and transferred to a large capsule with distilled water; after'^some time the water is renewed, and the omentiun is separated under water, together with the spleen and pancreas, from the stomach with scissors and is transferred to common water. Those portions of the omentum which are seen to contain small patches are cut out and mounted, as has been already described. A failure is more frequent than a success : either the surface has not been pencilled enough, and then the endothelium of both the surfaces is coloured, and consequently, hardly anything is to be seen of the cellular ele- ments of the ground-substance ; or the surface has been pencilled too hard, and then the arrangement of the groimd-substance is altered, its bundles appear considerably stretched and distinctly fibrillar. Successful preparations become only slightly yellowish brow, and can be preserved without alteration for a very long time.