ANATOjrr or the lymphatic system. 38 the lymph-sac, and the hunen is thereby partitioned into a number of spaces. While at one point this proliferation occurs sparingly, at a neighbouring point the lumen of the lymphatic-sac may be quite free, or these branched cells may be so plentiful as to form a tolerably close network, which differs from a yoimg adenoid reticulum only in respect of the somewhat greater amount of protoplasm which occurs roimd the nuclei at the nodes of the network. From what has been said, only this conclusion can be drawn, that the growth of a network of branched cells proceeds from the endothelium of the lymphatic sac, whereby the lymphatic vessel is transformed into a cavernous or sinuous structm-e. It is very easy to make out at all points and in all stages of development, with great clearness, that not only from the endothelium of the wall of the lymphatic vessel, but also from the branched cells extending across its lumen, lymph corpuscles origi- nate, which become finally detached and lie in the meshes of the reti- culum, or in fact in the lumen of the previous lymphatic vessel. In a completely formed nodule of this sort, which we designate as endo- lymphangial nodules, one cannot of course any longer determine its origin; all that one sees is a delicate reticulum, with lymphoid cells in its meshes, and supplied with a more or less rich capillary network. For the same reason, also, in the case of a fully developed nodule or cord of the first form, i.e. a peri-lymphangial nodule or cord, which owes its origin to an aggregation of lymph-canalicular cells, it is not easy to distinguish it from an endo-lymphaugial noduleor cord, inasmuch as, as we have already mentioned above, the at first more or less flat cells gradually transform into an adenoid reticulum, in the meshes of which lymphoid corpuscles lie, while at the same time the fibrillar gTound- substance disappears. We wish to add here, for the better understand- ing, two other points, namely, 1. That those lymphatic nodules and cords which are surrounded by a distinct semicircular lymphatic vessel, and whose reticulum is continuous with the endotheliiun of the lymphatic vessel, correspond to a peri-lymphangial nodide ; and 2. That the proliferation of an endo-lymphangial nodule extends more and more into the lymphatic vessel invaginating or accompanying a large blood-vessel, so that, therefore, the large blood-vessel seems to be enclosed in a lymphatic cord. This then comes to resemble