ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. exist such furrows; (2) tliat the surface of the serous membranes IS always moistened by a serous fluid, and consequently that fluid is accumulated mostly in the above-mentioned furrows; (3) that the silver-salt produces precipitations in albiuninous substances. If, however, anyone concludes from these three circumstances the silver lines correspond to precipitations in the serous fluid of the surface, the conclusion is decidedly wrong, as the silver lines do not correspond only and exclusively to these precipitations, for there exists a number of facts which show that the existence of the silver lines depends also and cliiefly on precipitations in an intercellular albuminous substance, which holds together the individual endothelial cells. The chief argu- ment of Schweigger-Seidel, who first expressed the above-mentioned erroneous opinion, and who defended it with great constancy, was, that the appearance of the silver lines is prevented by rinsing the surface of a serous membrane with diluted glycerine, or with diluted sugar-solution. This assertion, however, I must contradict most decidedly, as it is not the case either after rinsing with glycerine or sugar-solution, nor even with water, provided that the membrane has not been rinsed so much as to remove the endothelium altogether. Of coiu-se, one can hardly expect that the silver lines should be of great thickness in those instances in which the membrane has been rinsed, as there exist no precipitations in a serous fluid of the surface which would increase the precipitations in the intercellular substance. The presence of various other lines on the surface of the silver-stained membranes cannot be regarded from what has been said above by any means as a proof against the silver lines being chiefly dependent on the intercellular substance. We may mention here as well the very regular system of silver lines corresponding to intercellular substances in silver-stained sections of any mucous membrane covered with laminated epithelium, e.g. cornea, conjunctiva, mucous membrane of the mouth, sesophagus, larynx, vagina, &c., in silver-stained sections) through masses of smooth muscular fibres, in the muscular coat of silver-stained arteries, and so on. It remains, therefore, for the anta- gonists of the intercellular lines only to deny the intercellular sub- stance of the endothelium altogether, as it has been done by Eobinski, whose assertion it is scarcely necessary to discuss.