21 CELLULAE ELEMENTS OF THE GEOUND-SUBSTANCE. were distinctly situated in the lymph-canalicular system, whereas in the central parts the branched cells were transformed into a delicate reticulum of cells, the bodies of which had become considerably smaller, and the processes very thin and delicate. The meshes were filled out nearly completely by lymphoid corpuscles; and there was nothing to be seen of an intercellular matrix. After what has been said about the distribution of those nodules and tracts it is scarcely necessary to draw the special attention of the reader to the fact that from their, topographical arrangement they are analogues of the fat tissue of the omentum. We will, therefore, consider in the following paragraph the structm-e and the develop- ment of the fat tissue in so far as it is necessary to show the very intimate relation between the above-mentioned perilymphangial structures and the fat tissue of the omentiun. Before doing so we will describe first an organ which is situated in the fossa infra- orbitalis of young rabbits and gxdnea-pigs, the structm-e of which is able to throw some light on our discussion about the relation of the fat tissue and the perilymphangial structures. By the side of the glandula infra-orbitalis lies a mass of fat, which appears sometimes to be more or less isolated from the gland as a separate structure, and sometimes to represent only an envelope of that gland. In young and half-gi-own animals it is generally found to consist for the most part of a perfectly hyaline matrix, and to contain only a few small fat lobides. The older the animal gets the more fat lobules and the less hyaline substance are to be found in it. The best method of preparing this structmre for examination is the following: the skin and subcutaneous tissue are first removed, and the fascia which bridges over the fossa of the infra-orbital gland is then slit up. A small portion of the hyaline body, which now protrudes through the openiag, can be snipped ofi" with fine curved scissors, and mounted in aqueous hmnor. The following appearances will then be found imder the microscope : in some places, there are a very few thin, isolated, wavy, shining connective tissue bimdles, with here and there an amoeboid corpuscle; in other portions very little is to be seen in the perfectly hyaline matrix, while elsewhere the matrix contains a