ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 32 In the portion of omentum covering the anterior wall of the stomach the conditions are somewhat dififerent. There it will be seen that the lymphatics run only in company with the blood-vessels ; large blood vessels, again, are rare in that part, the vessels of common occurrence being the smaller arteries and veins, which, however, run quite isolated, often for a considerable distance. The arrangement of the lymphatics is as follows. Either a single lymphatic vessel is accompanied on one side frequently by a vein and sometimes also by an artery : the lymphatic keeps close to the blood vessel, possesses at certain points sacciform dilatations, and receives also sometimes a branch laterally. These are vessels that have mostly a sinuous endothelium. Or, secondly, it may happen that a blood-vessel is accompanied on both sides by a lymphatic: these are disposed exactly as in the former case, and communicate by cross branches. Finally, it occurs not unfrequently that the blood vessel rims within a lymphatic—that the blood-vessel is invaginated. There cannot be the slightest doubt that such invaginations occur. They are of various kinds. One case, for example, which is quite easy to make out, is that of a vein invaginated for a considerable part of its course, while, at the same time all its branches, so long as they are not capillaries, are also invaginated. The chief lymphatic, containing the venous trunk, leaves the latter, after £f long course, at a point where this vein opens into a larger trunk, and then unites with the lymphatic that accompanies this principal venous trunk. It may also happen, secondly, that the lymphatic leaves the blood-vessel long before the latter opens into a large trunk: in this case the vein and lymphatic run side by side to the latter point. Finally, there is a third case, which, however, in the omentmn is much rarer, viz. where the Ijrmphatic accompanying a blood-vessel (and invaginating it) suddenly acquires an extensive dilatation, through which the blood- vessel penetrates, breaking off at an angle, while the lymphatic can be traced a long way beyond the dilatation. All these descriptions are drawn from preparations that have been pencilled and silvered. I have in my possession preparations of rabbit's omentum where such perivascular lymphatics present them- selves as large tubes, the walls of them showing the sinuous endothe-