'° ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. branched cells being decidedly more abundant, less branched, their processes uncommonly broad. In some places the cells are so closely situated by each other that they resemble an endothelium ; in this case they are separated from each other by linear mter- cellular substance. In Fig. 14 this change is very distinctly to be seen. This figure is taken from a silver-stained preparation of centrum tendineum of a guinea-pig suffering from slight chronic inflamma- tion. At 6 an important change of the branched lymph-canalicular cells has taken place, the same being arranged like an endothe- liiun after having vmdergone division. To the greatest extent this change is to be foimd in the tubercular nodules which have their seat in the serosa of the pleural surface. Fig. 22 is a silver prepara- tion of a tuberculous diaphragm of a guinea-pig. The branched lymph-canalicular cells have all undergone the above-mentioned change, being now arranged like an endothelium, with the difference, however, that the ceUs are for the most part separated by thicker tracts of intercellular material. I may mention here that I have frequently succeeded in injecting the lymph-canalicular system of the peritoneal serosa, as well as of the tendons of the centrum tendineum, in some cases also that of the mesentery and the peritoneiun parietale,^ with colouring material; namely, in guinea-pigs which suffered from artificial tuberculosis, and in rabbits in the peritoneal cavity of which starch and water had been injected several weeks before. In these cases anilin and milk (an alcoholic solution of anilin is mixed with so much water that the anilin is precipitated in form of very fine granules), has been intro- duced into the peritoneal cavity of the affected animals in a quantity of about 4 c.c.; after twenty-four to forty-eight hours the animals were killed. On microscopical preparation of the centrum tendineum there were many places to be found in which the inflammatory changes of the branched lymph-canalicular cells were very slight, and on which places not only the protoplasm of the branched cells and that of the migratory cells, but also the lymph-canaliculi themselves, contained more or less numerous anilin granules. To a very great extent that was the case in a rabbit which suffered from chronic