ANATOMY OP THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. diflference in the lymph-canalicular system is even more striking. If the number of migratory cells is large, then one requires some time before one is able to interpret such spots; with a high magni- fying power (obj. 8), however, and with somewhat more attention, one can recognise the lacun® of the lymph-canalicular system as being provided only with a few wide canals. Both in the former and in the latter, we can recognise lymphoid corpuscles. We sliall also be able to discover here and there in such a dilated canal a smaller or larger protoplasmic mass surrounding a nucleus, and forming a continuity with a protoplasmic process, which can be traced into the correspond- ing lacuna. This nucleated mass of protoplasm appears either as a terminal or as a lateral bud of a cell process. In the same manner, one can find one lymph-canalicular cell or another in which the division of the nucleus has so far advanced that instead of the large ovoid nucleus one comes upon two or three small nuclei, or that the cells of the lymph-canalicular system have a swelling placed on one side, so that the lacuna forms a projection: this swelling is still in distinct connection with the rest of the cell. We have to do here, therefore, with a change of the branched lymph-canalicular cells, as was described of the cornea-corpuscles by Strieker and Norris, and confirmed by Eollett. It is unnecessary for me to state that an exudation both of the colourless and coloured corpuscles had taken place from the blood-vessels, inasmuch as the vessels, especially the small veins, were to be seen sheathed in compact cords of these; they could be followed even into the lymph-canalicular system. The omentum of such rabbits as these proved to be not less in- structive. On the cells of the lymph-canalicular system which pre- sented themselves isolated in the tissue, one could demonstrate on some places exactly the same change as was described on the centrum tendineum, namely, the lacuna being larger, the number of the canals fewer, the canals wider, the cells of the lymph-canalicular system presenting themselves as granular bodies with processes, and their nucleus here and there in the act of division. In the neigh- bourhood of the blood-vessels numerous migratory cells were met with in the lymph-canalicular system. If we examine carefully the lymphatic nodules, a distinct increase of migratory cells could be