ANATOMY OP THE LYMFHATIC SYSTEM. 66 Further, it is easy to make out that the endothelial vesicles whose wall shows distinct endothelial plates after treatment with silver occur chiefly in the immediate neighbourhood of lymphatic capillaries, and not only solitary, but sometimes scattered in groups, and sometimes arranged in a linear series, close behind each other. It is already probable, from what has preceded, that the endothelial vesicles finally communicate with each other either by fusion, or by extension of the vacuoles through the protoplasmic processes which connect their walls; and also that they commimicate in a similar manner with the lumen of neighbouring lymphatic capillaries, because, as we already know, the endothelium of the lymphatic capillaries is in direct com- munication with the lymph-canalicular cells. It is therefore only necessary that the vacuole of the lymph-canalicular cell should extend along the process which connects it with the endothelial cell in order that it should open into the lymphatic capillary. In this manner, first, a lymphatic capillary may become longer, and secondly, lateral sinuses or dilatations may be formed. I have not observed these pro- cesses in the normal omentum of the rabbit, because, as may be easily conceived, they do not occur with sufficient frequency; but in chronic inflammation, on the other hand, I have followed them out in all serous membranes to so great an extent, and with such intensity, that I do not hesitate to accept them also as the final result in the case of the above-described endothelial vesicles. These endothelial vesicles show a peculiar relation in the mesogas- trium of the frog. I have described their development in the ' Quarterly Microscopical Journal,' and have there stated that in female frogs, in winter, they may be sometimes observed in a very considerable number, owing to the presence of slight chronic peritonitis. I have also said that the yoimg vesicles bear cilia, which are directed to their interior, and that this is sometimes still the case when their wall is already distinctly difierentiated into endothelial plates. So far as their development is concerned, I have nothing to add to what I have already said. In many vesicles the development of yoimg cells towards the liunen is very marked, while in others nothing is to be seen of this process. I have also shown that these vesicles are not simple cysts, as stated by Kemak, but that they stand in the closest