THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 89 the form of cords which originate in the fusion of several peri-lym- phangial nodules. To siunmarise the preceding statements, we may divide the lymphatic nodides into peri- and endo-lymphang-ial: the former consti- tute isolated nodides or patches, and, by fusion, cords; the latter form patches and nodules, and, by continuous outgrowth, cords. From what I have seen in the omentum and plem-a mediastini of guinea-pigs, dogs, cats and monkeys, I am inclined to think that along one lymphatic vessel several endo-lymphangial nodules may originate, isolated, which afterwards become fused together, so as to form a cord. It seems to me that the development of the peri-lymphangial nodules follows more the arterial vessels, whereas that of the endo- lymphangial nodules the venous vessels- My researches have, how- ever, not been carried out so far as to enable me to state this with certainty. We come now to the lymphatic system of the omentum and pleura mediastini of the animals just mentioned. We are able to treat this part more briefly, since we have stated the essential points in detail in the preceding, where, in the omentum of the rabbit namely, the proof of the facts brought forward is considerably easier to adduce than for the first-named animals. The lymphatics in the normal state are here much more difficult to demonstrate than in the rabbit. It is desirable to select for studying preparations mounted quite fresh in serum, and subjected to the least possible tearing. One may be prepared for ill-success in many cases of. staining the omentum with silver. It is very difficult to pencil accurately the extremely delicate fenestrated portion of the omentum. The best preparations are obtained from the guinea-pig, from that part of the omentum in which the pancreas lies enveloped. It is less difficult to pencil the omentiun of the cat, the rabbit, or the ape, because here the omentum lies on the small intestine like an apron. It is equally difficult to obtain a successful preparation of the pleura mediastini of the guinea- pig as well as of the cat, there being in the latter case an imusual number of trabeeulae, running in all directions free on the surface, bearing the lymphatic nodides, which trabecula3 interfere to a great