CELLULAR ELEMENTS OF THE GEOUND-SUBSTANCE. 17 spindle-shaped cells carefully under a liigh power, one soon finds out that they are only the profile of somewhat flattened branched cells, exactly the same as the other cells of the reticulum. The meshes of the reticulum appear perfectly clear, and contain only here and there a lymphoid corpuscle. We shall return in the chapter on lymphatic vessels to these patches and cords, where we shall be able to recog- nise and understand better their intimate structure. We will, however, anticipate, by calling the patches and tracts which we have been considering up to the present lymphangial patches (nodules) and lymphangial tracts. We may therefore say that there exist in the omentum of the rabbit two kinds of lymphangial structm-es : a. Patches, the matHx of which consists of groups of ordinary, more or less flattened, more or less branched cells, which on the one hand multiply by division, in which way the patch increases in size, and from which, on the other hand, grow up lymphoid cells. The branched cells lie in the lymph-canalicular system, together with the lymphoid cells. At an early stage of development these patches do not contain a special system of blood-vessels; at a later time they possess a special rich system of mostly capillary blood- vessels. By groiving in length these patches join so as to form whole tracts. h. Patches and tracts, the matrix of tuhich consists of a recti- culum, the meshes of tuhich contain a variable number of lymphoid corpuscles : they are generally provided with more or less abundant blood-vessels. We come now to deal with the omentum of the guinea-pig, cat, dog, and monkey, the omentum of which animals is of a very similar structure, and at the same time perfectly analogous to that of the pleura-mediastini. Consequently, what will be said of the former holds good also for the latter. In the tissue of the omentum of these animals similar lymphan- gial structures are to be met with, which, owing to their greater diameter in thickness, we shall not name patches, hxit nodules. By their size we may distinguish them as nodes and nodules, and we may say as well here as in the rabbit's omentum that they join so as 0 id