THE LYMPHATIC VESSELS OF THE SEROUS MEMBRANES. 51 tribution of the first kind of stomata vera, the following is to be noticed: In great numbers they are to be met with on the peritoneal sur- face of the centrum tendineum. We have had the opportunity to mention that the straight lymphatic capillaries, the deep ones as well as the superficial ones, stand in free communication with the peri- toneal cavtty by means of vertical lymphatic channels. The free mouths of these are the stomata in question. These vertical lymphatic channels are generaHy situated in chains behind each other; they are more numerous and shorter for the superficial straight lymphatics than for the deep ones. The vertical lymphatic channels of the latter exhibit in some rare cases a pecidiarity, which consists in this : if from the deep, straight lymphatic capillary a vertical lymphatic channel is given off just at the point where the former is covered by a super- ficial lymph-capillary, then we see that the vertical lymphatic channel passes simply through the superficial straight vessel, that is to say, the vertical lymphatic channel appears to be invaginated in the straight lymphatic vessel. In the vertical channels of the deep straight lymphatic capillaries, having a considerable length, it is very easy to recognise that they are lined by a special layer of endothelium, which in the most cases, exactly like that of the corresponding stoma, consists of polyhedral germinating elements. The layer of endothelium which lines the vertical channel is also distinguishable in those of the superficial straight vessels if they are not collapsed. Adjusting from the peri- toneal siu-face, one sees first the germinating endothelium of the stoma, then a similar layer of polyhedral endothelial elements surrounding the vertical channel like a corona. Over the above-mentioned excavations and sinuses of the lym- phatic capillaries of the peritoneal serosa of the centrum tendineum there exist also stomata vera, i.e. vertical lymphatic channels which, Hke those of the superficial straight capillaries, are only of a very limited length. The endothelium does not differ in any respect from that of the latter. Quite as numerous are the stomata vera, viz. the vertical lymphatic canals in the omentum and pleura ; we find them on the lymphatic capillaries and lymph-sinuses in the omen- E 2