ANATOMY OF THE LYMrilATIO SYSTEM. .4 endothelium of which arese possesses the above-mentioned characters. As these chief trabeciilse project in many instances like folds or fringes, they afford the best opportunity of studying this germinating or young endothelium—(we shall use this expression always after- wards)—from the siu-face as well as in profile. Especially in the latter case, one is sure to find, where a large area of germinating endothelium is focussed, numbers of cells which are raised from the general sm-face by means of a stalk, and which possess in their peripheral spherical portion two nuclei or a nucleus in a state of division ; and fm-ther, one is sm-e to find there spherical cells just like lymphoid corpuscles, which are either simply attached to the general surface or are in a state of separating themselves from young endo- thelial cells. The same character is possessed by the endothelium of the sm-face of certain nodular or cord-like structures, which are either isolated or in connection with the chief trabecules of the fenestrated part of the omentum, in which larger blood-vessels or fat are contained. I have come across, several times in the normal as well as in the chronically inflamed omentum, endothelial cells which presented the characters of giant-cells—myeloplaxes, that is protoplasmic masses containing five to ten nuclei. These masses were attached to the surface by means of a shorter or longer protoplasmic stalk. A yery rich distribution of germinating endothelium is to be found on the omentum of rabbits. As we shall afterwards see, the omentum of the rabbit shows remarkable differences as regards the distribution of the lymphatic and blood-system. These differences are, however, in general merely differences of development, which are to be explained by differences of age. Always, however, there are to be found on the delicate portion of the omentum covering the left part of the stomach, as well as on tiie denser part covering the pyloric portion of the stoma.ch, numerous places, either in the form of more or less isolated islands of different size or of cords, the sm-face endothelium of which possesses the above-mentioned characters, viz. is germinating. Seen from the surfape such areae appear to be covered with cells, which are raised like buds, with shorter or longer stalks. The upper parts of these buds appear in many instances to imdergo division. That the germination on these plapes goes on with some rapidity can be