50 ANATOMY OF THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM, as far as I can see, only by Dybkovski for the pleura costalis. Dybkovski has shown on that membrane, after having injected the lymphatics, that the superficial lymphatic vessels lead freely between the endothelium of the surface by short vertical branches. Close to that comes the assertion of Dogiel and Schweigger-Seidel, that the septum cysternse lymph, magnse in frog is perforated by a number of canals—stomata—that is to say, that the cysterna lymph, magna is in free communication with the peritoneal cavity. According to these observers, large flat endothelial cells on both surfaces of the septum have a radiating arrangement round those stomata; the nucleus of these radiating endothelial cells lies peripherally in that portion with which the cells border the stoma, so that each nucleus causes a roundish projection of the cell into the stoma. We shall see hereafter that these assertions do not correspond perfectly to the facts. Finally, Ludwig and Schweigger-Seidel have drawn attention to the important fact that the peritoneum of the centrum tendineum has a fenestrated arrangement in those parts which cover the straight lymphatics. This fact, together with the experience of Eeckling- hausen, brought many authors to the assumption that those small irregularly distributed figures amongst the endothelium above the straight lymphatic channels in silver preparations represent stomata. We come now to deal with the insults of our own researches. We distinguish two kinds of stomata on the surface of the serous membranes, namely, stomata vera and stomata spuria or pseudo-sto- mata. The stomata vera are again of two kinds : a. They represent the mouth of a vertical lymphatic channel, which is lined by a special layer of endotheliiun, and which channel leads into the lumen of a superficial lymphatic vessel; b. They represent a discontinuity between the endothelium of the surface, leading into a simple lymphatic sinus near the surface, which, as we have seen, represents a cavity lined only on one side with an endothelium. Both kinds of stomata vera are bordered by endothelial elements of a more or less distinct ger- minating character, namely, the ceUs are smaller, polyhedral, dis- tinctly granular, they stain more readily in silver solution, and possess a single, or a constricted, or a divided nucleus. As regards the dis-