CHANGES OF THE SUPERFICIAL ENDOTHELIIjTVI. 71 diagnosis is rendered more difficult by the abundance of new growth, and by the lymphatics being filled with young cells. The same occurs as regards the germination of the endothelium round the stomata when the guinea-pigs are suffering from chronic inflamma- tion of the peritoneum, whether this be the result of the introduction of solid bodies (pieces of gutta-percha, according to Cohnheim and Frsenkel), or of the injection of pysemic fluids and consequent chronic pysemia (see Dr. Sanderson's Eeport, 1872) into the abdominal cavity. A fact worth noticing is, that guinea-pigs in which the tuberculi- zation was induced by subcutaneous injection, or by direct injection into the blood-vessels, exhibit a marked difference, viz. whereas in those cases in which the tuberculization has been induced by the peritoneum, and in which, the peritoneum being more advanced in the tubercular process than the internal organs (as the lymphatic glands, spleen, liver, and lungs), the germination of the endothelium round the stomata or pseudo-stomata is the first and chief change to be made out at a time when the tubercular process has made very little progress, one' does not find this to be the case when the tuber- culization has been induced subcutaneously or by the vessels, for a marked growth of the endothelium roimd the stomata does not take place until the tuberciilosis in general is very advanced. The same conditions with which we have become acquainted in the preceding as regards the omentum and centrum tendineum are to be observed on the mesentery. In those cases, where the mesentery exhibits moderately far-advanced tuberculous affection, the growth of the endothelium around the true stomata occurs in a very striking manner. Figs. 9 and 12 are taken from such a mesentery; here, over the greatest part of the mesentery, there could be demonstrated with great ease the stomata vera themselves, as well as the germina- tion of their endothelium. Besides this, the germination of the endothelium round the pseudo-stomata and the budding of young cells from the pseudo-stomata themselves was quite distinct. What had been said in reference to the change of the endothelium surrounding true and pseudo-stomata in the guinea-pig, I have found to be also true of the mesentery and omentum of monkeys which