313 kites with the pylorica, or coronaria dextra. In tracing1 these branches upon the lesser curvature of the stomach, we shall find several nerves which are branches of the eighth pair, or par vagum. The arteria splen ica arises from the trunk, or axis of the cceliac artery. It passes under the stomach, and along the border of the pancreas, where it gives off the pan- creaticas parvas. Continuing its serpentine course, it gives the vasa brevia to the stomach, and small branches to the mesocolon. When it reaches the spleen, it makes a cbrve in its bosom, and enters it in several branches. It sends off from its branches in the spleen, a considerable branch to the stomach, which, inosculating with the rightgastro- epiploic artery, is called the gastro-epiploica sinistra. The arteria hepatica runs in a direction opposite to the splenic artery, towards the right side. After having run some way in the direction of the trunk of the vena porta?, it divides, nearly at the same place, into four branches, which spread over the trunk of the vena ports. The first branch sent off, is the arteria gastro-epiploica dex- tra, so named from its chief branch ; or sometimes called the duodeno-gastrica, from that branch of it which goes to the duodenum. This artery, descending under the pylorus to gain the great curvature of the stomach, with its ac- companying vein, catches the eye while the viscera are yet entire. It is seen beautifully distributed to the stomach and omentum ; and reaching the left and obtuse end of the stomach, it inosculates largely with the splenic artery. As this gastro-epiploic artery runs across the under side of the duodenum, it gives off the pancreatico duodenalis, which runs down the intestine, and sends a considerable branch along the pancreas. The hepatic artery, after sending off the gastro-epiploica dextra, divides into the right and left hepatic branches. From the left hepatic, the coronaria dextra is sent off, which, turning backwards, spreads its branches upon the pyloric end of the stomach, inosculating with the proper coronary of the superior orifice, and with the pyloric arteries, which are numerous and important twigs from the surrounding greater arteries ;—the coronary some- times comes oft' from the trunk of the hepatic artery. The continued trunk of the left hepatic artery, climbing upon the vena porta?, enters the liver, and, separating into branches, is distributed within the liver, to the whole of the left lobe, the lobe of Spigeliiis, and part of the right lobe. The right hepatic artery, passing under the hepatic duct of the liver, is distributed to the right lobe of the