64 though many ■valuable observation* have been made on particular parts, still the anatomy of it is so complicated, that I have found very few students who were capable of making themselves masters of the many points of interest, unless they went through a regular series of dissections. I shall, therefore, endeavour to describe such a course of dissections of the perineum, as will enable the student to comprehend the simple anatomy, and also the manner of examining the parts, so as to discover the causes of dif- ficulty in the several operations. In such a complicated structure as the outlet of the pelvis, it will be absolutely necessary to dissect the parts many times; I shall, therefore, in pointing out what I conceive to be the best plan of proceeding, endeavour so to describe it, that the student may make the most of each body which he dissects. I shall first show the method of performing the dissec- tion so as to enable the student to acquire a general idea of the muscles, and of those parts which are connected with the passage of the semen, the irrihe, and the faaces. Position of the Body. Tie the hands and feet so as to put the body in the same position in which a patient is placed for the operation of lithotomy ; then put a block under the sacrum—introduce a sound into the bladder—tie the glans penis to the upper part of the sound, and then fix it in the centre, by tying it to both knees. Before commencing the dissection, the rectum should be cleared of its contents, by throwing in water forcibly with a syringe; a little baked hair is then to be pushed into the rectum, and a round cork, with a string attached to it^ should be passed just within the sphincter: this will be found useful in bringing the sphincter forwards. Place a pelvis in the same position as the body, and compare the ramus of the pubes and ischium, and the tuberosity of the ischium, with the same parts in the sub- ject ; then make the first incision along the ramus of the pubes and ischium, down to the tuberosity of the ischium. Make a second through the skin only, along the Raph6, in the middle of the penis, to within | of an inch of the anus ; and then a third, from the one on the tuberosity of the ischium, to the termination of the cut on the Raphe. Make still another incision through the skin round the anus, beginning at the union of the cross and longitudinal incisions; and, lastly, feel for the os coccygis, and make a cut from it to the circular oue around the anus.