217 In. Into the spinous processes of all the vertebrae of the back, above the eighth, and into the two lowermost of the neck. Use. To poise the spine and support the trunk. Spinalis Dorsi.—(Lying betwixt the spine and longissimns dor- si.)—Or. The spinous processes of the two uppermost vertebrae of the loins, and the three inferior of the back. In. The spinous processes of the vertebrae of the back, from the second to the ninth. Use. To connect and fix the vertebrae, and to assist in raising the spine. Multifidcs Spin*. Or. 1. The spines of the os sacrum; 2. the part of the os ilium where it joins with the sacrum ; 3. the oblique and transverse processes of all the vertebrae of the loins ; 4. the transverse processes of all the vertebrae of the back, and those of the neck, except the three first, by distinct tendons, which soon grow fleshy, and run in an oblique direction. In. Into the spinous processes of all the vertebrae of the loins and back and neck, except the first. Use. To support the spine and trunk. Interspinales Dorsi et Lumborum, and the Intertransver- sales Dorsi, are rather small tendons than muscles, serving to con- nect the spinal and transverse processes. Intertransversales Lumborum. Are four distinct small bundles of flesh, which fill up the spaces between the transverse processes of the vertebrae of the loins, and serve to draw them towards each other. Levatores Costarum. Are a set of muscles, each of which arises from the extremity of the transverse process of a dorsal vertebra, and is inserted into the upper border of the rib next to it. MUSCLES SITUATED ON THE FORE PART OF THE VERTEBRAE OF THE NECK. Longus Colli. Or. 1. The bodies of the three superior verte- brae of the back, and lowest of the neck; 2. from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae of the neck. In. The fore part of the bodies of all the vertebrae of the neck. Use. To bend the neck forwards or to one side. Rectus Capitis Anticijs major.* Or. The points of the trans- verse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae of the Beck. In. The cuneiform process of the os occipitis, a little before the condyloid process. Use. To bend the head forwards. U