105 the edge of the acetabulum, is called the Ligamentum Labri Cartilagineum. When we examine the neck of the femur, we may see some small slips of ligament passing from the internal edge of the capsular ligament, towards the head of the bone: these slips have been called Reti- nacula,—but they are of no importance. TABLE OF THE LIGAMENTS OF THE HIP JOINT. 1- Ligamentum Capsulare. 2. Accessorium Anlicum. 3. Poslicum. 4. — Teres. 5. - — Labri Cartilagineum. 6. Transversale. The ligaments connecting the femur, tibia, and patella together, are very numerous ; for though the motions of the knee joint are very simple, being merely flexion and extension, still many ligaments are necessary, as the form of the bones is not at all adapted to restrain the joint from being either too much bent, or too much ex- tended ; but many of the ligaments which are enumerated, are so trifling, that they cannot be considered as in any way adding to the strength of the joint. The first ligament to be dissected in this joint, as in almost all others, is the capsulare. It is in itself very thin; but it is strengthened by tendons and ligaments, particu- larly on the fore and back part. There is only one dis- tinct ligament on the inner side of the knee, which, from its situation, is called the ligamentum laterale internum; but on the outside, two lateral ligaments are described, viz. longum and breve. There is no difficulty in finding the Longum, but the Breve is very indistinct, being little more than some scattered fibres, which run from the outer condyle to the tibia. When we examine the posterior part of the joint, we shall fiud a complicated set of ligaments running between the tibia and femur. They are sometimes described separately; but they are more generally classed together, under the name of ligamentum popi.itale, or ligamentum rosncuM Winslowii. The tendon which is between the patella and the tubercle of the tibia, is sometimes described as a ligament, and is called lica- MENTUM PATELLAE. These ligaments, which are all external to the cap- sular ligament, may be each considered as important. V\e should now examine those which appear to be inter-