304 2. the back part of the middle of the radius; 3. the interosseous ligament. In. (By two tendons) into the os trapezium, and upper back part of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and often joins with the ab- ductor pollicis. Use. To draw the metacarpal bone of the thumb outwardly. Extensor Secundi Internodii. Or. 1. The back part of the ulna, near the former muscle ; 2. the interosseous ligament. In. The posterior part of the first bone of the thumb : part of it may be traced as far as the second bone. Use. To extend and draw the second bone of the thumb out- wards. Extensor Tertii Internodii. Or. 1. The middle and back part of the ulna ; 2. from the interosseous ligament: its tendon runs through a small groove, at the inner and back part of the lower end of the radius. In. The last bone of the thumb. Use. To extend the last joint of the thumb. The variety of motions which we are enabled to execute with the fingers, is sufficient evidence of the complication of the small muscles which lie on the hand. If we first make an arrangement of the muscles which move the thumb, and those which move the little finger, there will not be much difficulty in recollecting the other muscles. We find a muscle for pulling the thumb from the fingers, abductor pollicis: one for drawing the thumb towards the fingers, adductor pollicis: and to bend the thumb, flexor brevis :—with this muscle may be classed the one called opponens, or flexor ossrs metacarpi pollicis. For the little finger we have an abductor, adductor, and flexor. There still remain the small muscles which bend all the fingers, viz. the lumbricales. There is also a set of muscles which lie between the metacarpal bones; these are called interossei externi and interni ; the use of which, is, to draw the fingers separate: with this class may be arranged the muscle called abductor indicis; as it lies between the metacarpal bone of the fore finger, and that of the thumb. There is one muscle omitted in this arrangement, be- cause it stands by itself,—the palmaris brevis; being the set of fibres which were seen on the palmar aponeu- rosis, and covering the muscles of the little finger.