188 We may now examine the general appearance of the ex- ternal parts of the heart. If the pericardium has been slit open on the fore part, the ventricle which is called the right, though, from its position, we should be more inclined to call it the anterior, will be the first part seen. The right auricle will pro- bably be so distended with blood, as to project, even more than the right ventricle.—The left ventricle will not be seen ; but by taking the heart in the hand, it will be at once distinguished, on the posterior part, by its firm fleshy con- sistence ; for the right is comparatively loose in its texture, and feels as if wrapped round the left. The top of the left auricle will be seen lapping round upon the upper part of the left ventricle; and from below it, a branch of the coronary artery, and of the coronary vein, may be traced towards the apex of the heart. These vessels mark, the division of the heart into the two ventricles, as they run nearly parallel, but aliltle to the left, of the septum CORDIS. By cutting away the loose portions of the pericardium, we may show several of the great vessels of the heart. The vena cava superior will be most distinctly seen, because it is generally distended with blood.—Only a very small- portion of the inferior cava can be shown, as the lower part of the right auricle is nearly in contact with the dia- phragm. The vessel which arises from the right ventricle, is the pulmonary artery: but very little more than the origin of this, can be seen, as it is covered by a portion of the arch of the aorta. We cannot see the origin of the aorta at present, as it rises from the posterior part of the heart; nor are the pulmonary veins visible in this view, as they are also situated on the back part. Before the heart and great vessels are cut out, we should take a general view of the lungs. If there be no preternatural adhesions of the lungs to the pleura, where it lines the ribs, their general figure will be easily understood. It will be seen, that the base of the lungs, or where they rest upon the diaphragm, is concave, answering to the con- vexity of the diaphragm ; that they reach far behind the anterior part of the diaphragm ; aud that they are pyra- midal towards the upper part of the chest, auswering to the pyramidal shape of the thorax. We shall see that the lungs of each side are subdivided into lobes. Those of the right side, generally into three,— two greater ones, aud an intermediate lesser lobe; and the left, into two lobes. This, however, is sometimes reversed.