208 may not be confounded, in the thorax and at the root of the neck, with their branches. When the heart only is to be injected, we should cut through the vessels going to the upper parts of the body, as they are emerging from the thorax, and remove the heart and lungs, by tearing them, along with the trachea and oesophagus, from the spine,—making first an incision along the spine, to free the intercostal arteries. We may then cut through the aorta and vena cava, below the dia- phragm :—a part of the liver should be left attached to the vessels. It is necessary to remove the heart in this man- ner, that there may be no danger of cutting any of the great vessels. We should press out as much blood as possible from the vessels, and then put a pipe into one of the pulmonary veins, and another into the vena cava superior.. Having injected warm water by these tubes, to clear the heart of the masses of coagulated blood which are generally found in it after death, we must tie the lungs at their roots, and the vena cava inferior, and all the divided arteries, except the aorta, into which a pipe must be put. If we throw red injection into the pulmonary vein, it will fill the left auricle, left ventricle, aorta, and coronary vessels; but during this part of the injection, an assistant ought to hold and compress the aorta immediately after its giving off the coronary arteries, so as to press the injection on in them : but as by this, the injection will be prevented from entering the aorta, it must be filled from the pipe which was inserted into it. The injection escaping by the intercostal arteries, may be stopped by an assistant throw- ing cold water on the wax as it flows from the vessels.— The yellow injection thrown in by the vena cava superior, will fill the right auricle, ventricle, and pulmonary artery. The dissection required, is simply the removing of the soft parts from the injected vessels. OF THE MAMMA. The structure of the mamma should be attended to.-— Much of its bulk is made up of the fat and cellular mem- brane surrounding the proper glandular part, which is formed of a congeries of lesser glands, that are con- nected by their duels and vessels. The arteries of the gland come from different sources: those from the in- ternal mammary may be traced from betwixt the ribs, and through the pectoral muscles. It has also branches from