283 and consider, whether we can assign any reason for this difference. But the important question will be,—of what consequence is the recollection of this muscle, in opera- tions on the neck?—If it he forgotten, even in the simple operation of opening the external jugular vein, the sur- geon may be foiled; for as the vein is under the muscle, the fibres will close, and prevent the flow of blood, if the incision be not made obliquely. Those who have once dissected a tumour from under this muscle, will never for- get the strength of these fibres in the living body, though they appear so trifling on the dead subject. We can now understand, why tumours of the neck, when they are en- larged, are pushed inwards ; and that they may be larger, than what a superficial examination would lead us to suppose. If the body be thin and anasarcous,—instead of the fibres of the platysma being distinct aud connected, they will ap- pear scattered; and the cellular membrane between, and under them, will have the form of a fascia.—It is this ap- pearance, which has led some surgeons to attach more im- portance to what they call the fascia of the neck, than to the platysma. Yet I must admit, that though the cellu- lar membrane will not resemble fascia, in a body where the muscles, &c. are plump,—still, it will generally be so thick- ened, in consequence of the pressure of a tumour, that it will, in certain cases, be almost as strong as a distinct fascia: it is important to recollect this, in performing operations on tumours of the neck. The branches of nerves which are seen when the integu- ments only, are taken off, are not of much importance in a surgical view. The dissection of the skin should now be carried up to a line drawn from the tube of the ear to the nose. We shall then see, that there are no muscular fibres on the parotid, but that it is covered by a dense layer of fascia. This fascia will in some degree account for the violent pain which attends cynanche parotidea; for not only will the nerves be compressed by the fascia, but it will also form a natural obstacle to the free exit of matter.— 1 have seen a patient actually delirious from the pain he suffered from inflammation of the parotid. Under this fascia, several branches of the portio dura will be seen : these must not be forgotten ; because, in the very simple operation of taking out a small tumour from this part of the face, we may, by cutting these nerves, cause a degree of distortion in the lips of the patient.—The risk of producing a certain degree of paralysis, ought