206 of the artery "were united. I shall not dwell longer on this subject, but refer the student to the paper on the liga- ture of arteries, in Mr. C. Bell’s Surgical Observations. METHOD OF INJECTING THE HEART AND GREAT VESSELS. That the description of the manner of examining the heart may be more complete, I shall here show the me- thod of injecting the heart and great vessels, so that they may afterwards be preserved. This, however, is a piece of dissection which a student should not attempt until he is considerably advanced in the knowledge of anatomy. I shall presently describe the manner of injecting the great arteries of the chest, for the common dissection of the vessels of the head and arm ;—to that part of the work, the student should refer, for the description of the first dissection of the arteries of the chest. Old subjects should never be taken for the purpose of preparing the arteries of any of the viscera: for, in old age, the fat is accumulated about the viscera both of the abdomen and of the thorax. Nor is the fat here deposited, derived from the extremities; for although, during life, the Limbs of old people seem shrivelled and lean,—yet the oil contained in them, makes them also useless for pre- paring :—for, although dried with the utmost care, the oil will occasionally flow out, and mix with and dissolve the varnish, so that they never are clean nor lasting pre- parations. If the heart, therefore, has much fat accumu- lated about it, there should be no hesitation in sacrificing j it as a preparation, to the attainment of some other point of inquiry. If we wish to inject the heart while it is in its natural situation, we must sacrifice almost all the parts of the chest to it; for it is a preparation so difficult to make, and so expensive, that when we undertake it, we must not he- sitate to destroy the other parts. The chest, for this pur- pose, is to be opened by cutting through the sternum in its length, and by bending back the lateral portions, in the manner already described at page 197. The abdomen must also be opened. The viscera are to be pulled down, to that a large pipe may be put into the aorta, where it lies between the crura of the diaphragm. Another pipe i is to be put into the vena cava ascendens, below the < liver. We must then make a dissection on each side of the