245 Y 3 shall discover the first branch which it gives off while in the thorax; for it is a recurrent nerve, which comes back into the neck, to pass into the larynx, between the lower part of the thyroid and cricoid cartilages r—its branches unite with the superior laryngeal;—it is often called the inferior laryngeal nerve.* The sympathetic is now to be traced. We shall first ob- j serve the enlargement of it under the parotid ; this is call- ed its superior ganglion, from which it sends off branches to every one of the other nerves. As we trace it down the neck, we shall observe that it sends twigs to the cervi- cal nerves, and also some very soft delicate filaments to the artery, which, from their appearance, have been called nervi molles. About the middle of the neck, we generally, but not always, (and oftener on the left, than the right side) find another ganglion.—From this, some very delicate nerves will be seen to pass, in a direction more superficial than the others; these may afterwards be traced over the aorta, to assist in forming the superficial cardiac plexus. The main branch of the sympathetic continues to pass down, until it comes to opposite the first rib, and there it forms the lower cervical ganglion, from which, branches go to encircle the subclavian and lower thyroid arteries. But fhere, we must for the present give up the pursuit of this nerve. We should now turn to the dissection of the lateral part of the neck. If we carefully dissect the anterior scalenus muscle, we shall see the phrenic, or great internal muscular nerve of respiration, lying upon it: upon tracing this nerve back, it * Id the distribution of the branches of the eighth nerve to the la- rynx and glottis, we remark that connection which so intimately unites the larynx and lungs.—We observe how the slighesl irrita- tion on the former, calls into activity the whole respiratory system. By its connections with the phrenic and other respiratory nerves, it governs the actions of the muscles in respiration ; and being also the nerve of the stomach, by the same connections, it governs the muscles in vomiting, combining them in a different manner, to pro- duce that action. In vomiting and in respiration, the same muscles are in action, but they are dilferently combined ; and muscles which in respiration are opponents, become coadjutors in vomiting. The variety of combi- nations, of which these muscles are capable, explains the meaning of that intricacy and minuteness of subdivision, which characterize the nerves of the neck and chest.