93 ve.vsor roLLicis proprius ; the six on the back part, may be still more easily subdivided into the three which are inserted into the os calcis, viz. gastrocnemius, soueus, and plantar is—and into the three deep muscles, tibialis posticus, flexor digitorum longus, and flexor pol- J.ICIS LONGUS. MUSCLES OF THE FOOT. As the muscles which are on the sole of the foot are so difficult to remember, any arrangement which will facili- tate the recollection of them, must be acceptable. 1 have classed the three muscles belonging to the great toe, to- gether, viz. the abductor, flexor brevis, and the ad- ductor pollicis; then the three belonging to the little toe—the ABDUCTOR, FLEXOR PARVUS, and ADDUCTOR MI- NIMI digiti ; in the middle of the sole of the foot there are the flexor brevis digitorum, the flexor acces- sorius, and the lumbricales (as one muscle). After these nine muscles are removed, there are only the transver- iialis and the interossei interni, on the sole of the 'foot; and on the fore part, the extensor brevis digi- itorum and the interossei externi. The following table of the origins and insertions of the ' muscles, is given nearly in the same order in which the muscles have been arranged. Gluteus Maximus. Op.. 1. The posterior part of the spine of • the os ilium, near the sacrum. 2. From the convexity of the os r <acrum. 3. From the sacro-isehiatic ligament. 4. From the os i mccygis. In. By a strong broad tendon, under which is a large bursa, into ’ he upper and outer part of the linea aspera. Use. To carry forward (he trunk upon the thigh. Gluteus Medius. Or. 1. The anterior superior spinous process ■ >f the os ilium. 2. The edge of the spine of the ilium. 3. From * he back part of the dorsum of the ilium. This muscle is covered by a strong fascia, from which many of its f leshy fibres arise. In. By a broad tendon into the trochanter major. Use. To draw the thigh bone outwards, and a little backwards ; i o roll the thigh bone outwards, especially when it is bended ; to is Asist the former muscle. Gluteus Minimus. Or. A ridge that is continued from the t upcrior anterior spinous process of the os ilium, and from the middle i 4 the dorsum of that bone, as far back as its great notch. In. Into the fore and upper part of the trochanter major.