259 nerve will be found to emerge from the stylo mastoid fo- ramen,—and be distributed on the face, as has already been described. The upper part of the spinal marrow should now be ex- posed, so that we may distinctly see all the branches of the VIIIth pair. This may be done by carrying the saw down behind the mastoid processes of the temporal hone,—and then by cutting through the transverse processes of the cervical vertebra?, with a mallet and a plumber's hacking knife:—the broken processes are to be torn off with a strong pair of nippers. The sheath of the spinal marrow will then be exposed. When it is opened, we shall see the origins of the spinal portio dura. The animal died in the month of May; and, through the kindness of my friend, Mr. Mayo, who purchased its body, for the purpose of dissection, I was enabled to make an examination of the nerves of the trunk. The dissection was most satisfactory ; for the trunk was found to be supplied, not onlj' by branches of the Vth pair, as described by Cuvier, but also by an immense branch from the portio dura. The portio dura, in this elephant, was found emerging from the parotid gland, as in other mammalia. It gave oft' some descending branches to the neck, while in the parotid ; but it passed from behind the jaw to the proboscis, almost as an entire nerve, and of the size of the sciatic nerve in man : for in its course, it had given only some small branches to the muscles of the eye,—to those of the ear,—and to a small muscle which corresponds with the platysma. Before it passed into the substance of the proboscis, it united with the second division of the Vth pair, which comes out from the infra orbital hole, in two large branches. The two nerves being then closely united, passed between the lasers of muscles which form the greater part of the trunk. The portio dura became quickly diminished in size, for it gave oft'its branches in great profusion to the muscles ; but the Vth was continued down, as a very large uerve, to nearly the extremity of the trunk,—in this respect, resembling the nerves to the fingers in man. On making sections of the proboscis, near its extremity, a great number of these nerves were seen in its substance. A few branches of the portio dura ran to the valvular apparatus in the upper part of the trunk ; but this peculiar structure was supplied principally by a branch from the Vth pair, which was about the size of the radial nerve, and winded round under the orbit, from the main branch. The examination of the nerves of some animal whose proboscis is a feeler, and not, at the same time, a respiratory organ, would now be very interesting;—perhaps the nervous system of the extremity of the bill of the duck, may at present be taken as a proof, that where the part is not used as an organ of respiration, there will be no portio dura.