166 this nerve as arising from the pars perforee. The seventh is divided, by a small vessel, into two portions; the one (portio dura) arises from the posterior and lateral parts of the nodus cerebri ; the portio mollis, deeper,-—pro- bably from the anterior part of the fourth ventricle. It is difficult to follow the eighth, as it arises by several distinct filaments, but all of which may be traced from the posterior column of the spinal marrow. The first set, forming the filament called glosso pharyngeal, arise from the edge of the corpus olivare : the next, the ner- tus vagus, a little lower down; but the third set of fibrils, forming the spinal accessory of the older au- thors, or the superior external respiratory of Mr. Bell, must be looked for in the dissection of the spinal mar- row, as they arise as far down as the fourth cervical ver- tebra. The next nerve, the linguahs, which is the last of the proper cerebral nerves, is seen arising, by several filaments, from the edge of the corpus pyra- midale. If we examine the nodus cerebri minutely, we shall find that the crura cerebelli unite, and the crura cerebri pass under them; whence the part was called, by Varolius, pons. Upon the surface of the pons we see a furrow, which is called the Raphe. If we cut the pons horizon- tally, so as to cut also the crura cerebri, we shall show the mixture of cineritious and medullary matter, which lias been called the locus nIger ; and in the section of the crura cerebelli, we shall find a stain of yellowish matter, which is called corpus rhomboideum, or denta- turn. In this view we shall also see the medullary tracts which pass down towards the corpora pyramidalia, and the transverse fibres which run at right angles to them. By separating the two corpora pyramidalia from each other, we may see bands running from one side to the other, so that here the bodies appear to decussate. In the section of the corpus olivare, a regular oval medullary substance is seen, surrounded by cineritious matter, and which is called corpus dentatum eminentix; olivaris; small cords also project from the back part of the corpora olivaria, which have received the name of corpora res- TIFORMIA. Having finished this part of the dissection, we may look to the sinuses. In the first stage of the dissection, the longitudinal sinus was traced to its division into the two lateral sinuses. In dissecting the velum interposi- tum, the vein called vena Galeni was seen carrying it* blood to a sinus, in the middle of the tentorium, which i*