67 membranous part of the urethra. That there are mus- cular fibres here, no one will deny; but it will be found very difficult to give them the appearance of a neat small muscle, such as has been described by him, and at the same time to preserve the ligaments of the urethra and-of the prostate, and also the levator prostatas muscle. There is not any farther dissection required, to enable us to comprehend the incisions which are made through the internal parts, in the operation of lithotomy. The cut which is made by the best operators, begins about the middle of the membranous part of the urethra, and is continued, in a lateral direction, through the prostate and the sphincter of the bladder, above the level of the vesi- cula seminalis. By the view of the parts before us, we may be convinced, that in such an incision * no arteries of * It is to be hoped that the prejudice in favour of the gorget, will now give way to the use of the knife, in the operation of lithotomy. The ease and safety with which the operation with the scalpel may be performed, in comparison with that by the gorget, is admirably shown in the Illustrations of the Great Operations of Surgery, by Mr. Charles Bell. Mr. Bell has, in his Surgical Observations, pub- lished some time ago, given proofs of the success attending his mode of operatingj but they have been lately corroborated, in an extraordinary degree, by the history which that excellent surgeon, Mr. Martineau, of Norwich, has given, in the Medico Chirurgical Transactions, of more than eighty cases of lithotomy, in which h# performed the operation nearly in the same manner. As to the question of the high operation, I shall refer to the re- marks which I have made upon it in the Journal of Foreign Medi- cine and Surgery, where I hope I have proved, that it is not only a very dangerous, but also a more difficult operation to perforin, than the lateral. Although the observations which I have made in that paper, have by some been thought more severe than the occasion called for, yet I have been much gratified and flattered by the manner in which several surgeons of great eminence and learning have spoken of them. But nothing has given me so much pleasure as to find that my opinions coincide with those of Mr. Martineau, who, I have been informed, was pleased to say, “ that he was sorry lie had not read my observations before he wrote his paper upon litho- tomy, as he had taken the same view of the question of the high operation as I had ”. In the same paper I have dwelt at some length on the question of haemorrhage, after the common lateral operation. At the time I wrote that paper, I thought that the fears of haemorrhage, which are entertained by some surgeons, were groundlessbut I have since had an opportunity of examining a body upon which the lateral ope- ration had been performed: in the dissection of this bodyl disco- vered a good reason for these fegrs 3 for </ie incisioti had been beijan