84 Levator Ant. Or. As in the male, within the pelvis. It de- scends along the inferior part of the vagina and rectum. In. Into the perineum and sphincter ani. After having dissected the muscles, we may remove them, so as to expose the crura of the clitoris,—which are attached to the rami of the os pubis, nearly in the same manner as the crura of the corpus cavernosum are, in the male; by opening one crus we may distend the clitoris. We shall find no spongy body in the clitoris; but there is something analogous to it, surrounding the orifice of the vagina; it is called rete vasculosum, or PLEXUS RETEFORMIS, OT Sometimes, CORPUS CAVERNO- SUM VAGINAS. The parts within the pelvis should be examined, before a perpendicular section is made. The peritoneum has been already described as passing from the rectum to the uterus, and from the uterus to the bladder. If we pull up the uterus from between the bladder aud rectum, we shall see the folds of the peritoneum which" form the broad ligaments of the uterus; between the duplicatures of which, we may feel the round ligaments which pass to the abdominal rings. The ovaria will be seen in the broad part of the ligament; and anterior to them, the fallopian tubes, each of which has a floating fringed extremity, called the morsus diaboli. These parts are very seldom found in a natural state,—for the uterus and its appendages are so prone to inflammation, that there are geuerally adhesions between them : there are also very frequently, small tumours or hydatids attached to the ovarium. The section of the pelvis is to be made nearly in the same manner as it is directed to be made in the male. The structure and form of the clitoris, the course of the urethra and of the vagina, will be all now easily under- stood. If we lay open the vagina, we shall see the part of the uterus which is called the os tincaj ; the portion to which the vagina is attached, being called the cervix. Upon the internal fine secreting membranas of the vagina, many mucous folicles, or lacuna*, will be seen. The urethra is very short, and very simple in its struc- ture, compared with that of the male. We cannot dis- cover any glands in it, similar to those which are connect- ed with the neck of the bladder in the male ; but on opening the urethra, we shall see several lacudse. The internal membrane is not muscular, but has many longi- tudinal folds, which permit of its beiDg dilated to a great extent.