149 a probe, or the handle of a knife along the crus, and then cut upon it; but as the sinus takes a sweep like a ram’s horn, the turn must be cautiously followed.—When the cavities of both sides are exposed in their full extent, we may make our observations on the several parts which are in the two ventricles. We at once recognize the corpora striata; for the incisions which have been made for the exposure of the inferior horns, exhibit the mixture of cinerilious and me- dullary matter, from which these bodies have got the name of corpora striata. We may now see that the fornix is attached to the anterior lobe of the brain, by a part which appears single, but which, we shall afterwards discover to be formed of two cords: however, this is generally called the anterior crus of the fornix. If we trace the for- nix backwards, we shall see it dividing into two parts, which are called its posterior crura, and which diverge, and descend into the inferior horns. Between the fornix and the corpora striata, a reddish body will be seen ; this is part of the plexus choroides, which may be traced into the posterior horn, and also into the deepest part of the inferior horn; where it will be afterwards found to communicate with the pia mater which covers the base of the brain. If we now look into the posterior horn, wts shall see a little medullary eminence, which has been called hippocampus minor, to distinguish it from a much larger eminence, of the same kind, which is in the inferior horn, and is called hippocampus major, from some resemblance which it has to a small marine animal. If we pull up the portion of the plexus which descends into the inferior horn, we shall see, that the hippocampus takes a turn somewhat like a ram’s horn, whence it has sometimes received the name of cornu ammonis; its extremity has a bulbous form, like the point of a finger, whence it is occasionally called Digital, Process, and the ex- tremity of the sinus, the Digital Cavily. At the first view, ■the hippocampus appears to be the continuation of the posterior crus of the fornix; but, by following the crus, we shall find that it terminates in a thin layer of medullary matter, which lies on the hippocampus: as this layer has • some resemblance to a tape worm, it has been called Tccnia, and to distinguish it from another tasnia, it is called tasma 1 hippocampi, or, from its edge being, when in a fresh state, apparently fringed, it has also got the name of taenia. ISIMBRIATA. We should now examine the communication wh ch there 'is between the two ventricles. If we trace the plexu* O 3