113 the rectum (hamorrhoidales), and to the lower part of the bladder (vesicates imce). But in the female we shall find, besides these, a very large artery passing to the uterus |t the uterina). We may now trace the trunk to the space i between the sacro ischiatic ligaments. While here, it gives >ff some muscular branches,—but it almost immediately ; passes again into the pelvis, and is then distributed to the I parts in the perineum, in the manner described at page 74. This description will suffice for only one side of the pelvis ; for in the other, the small branches must have been cut across in removing the viscera. As the ischiatic comes as often from the gluteal as from the pudic, it is difficult to describe the irregular branches which pass from it while it is within the pelvis. But they are generally of little importance, for the artery will be found to pass out of the pelvis, very little dimi- nished in size, to supply the muscles of the hip, in the manner described in the table. In tracing the gluteal while yet within the pelvis, we shall find a set of arteries passing off from it to the lateral parts of the sacrum, viz. sacrce laterales. These vessels 'sometimes arise in one common trunk, but more generally in three or four distinct branches, each of which inoscu- lates with the sacra media, in its course along the middle of the sacrum. Before we can trace the external branches of the gluteal .and ischiatic, we must make a superficial dissection of the muscles of the hip. If our object were, to keep the arte- irries after they are dissected, we ought to preserve all the branches which go to these muscles; but as at present we wish only to acquire ageneral knowledge of the vessels, v we should not attempt to dissect all the small muscular twigs. We should, therefore, make such a dissection of the muscles of the hip as is described in p. S8 ; in doing this, 'some small arteries passing to the skin, and ramifying upon It the fascia of the gluteus medius, will be seen. In sepa- rating the gluteus maximus from the gluteus medius, we 'shall be obliged to cut a large branch,—the superficial^, ■which passes into the substance of the gluteus maximus.. iIf we then raise the gluteus medius, we shall discover an arlery passing under it, and dividing into two branches, which are called Ascendens and Transversalis. At this 'Stage of the dissection, we shall also see some of the Ibranchpsof the ischiatic arlery forming inosculations with itthose of the gluteal, and with the branches from the ipudic; but the principal branches of the ischiatic will be ^afterwards seen passing over the small muscles, along with