71 'semble piles in an early stage of their formation. Imrnedi- iately above this point, the gut becomes more dilatable: and here it is that fish bones, or the stones of fruit, after having passed easily through the whole intestinal canal, are liable to lodge, and occasionally to cause abscess and fistula. The knowledge of the changes which take place in the urethra and bladder, in consequence of disease, is most important; but, as it would require a volume to detail all the morbid appearances which are found in the urethra and bladder, I dare not enter upon the subject, farther than to point out one or two circumstances which have been proved by the dissection of the bodies of those who have died in consequence of stricture. I confine myself 'to this, the more willingly, because I can conscientiously recommend to the student the perusal of the observations which have been made on the morbid anatomy of the urethra and bladder, in that edition of the work on ■Stricture, by Mr. Bell, of which I was the editor. Stricture may take place at any part of the urethra an- terior to the circular ligament, but in general it occurs at : two points:—at an inch and a half from the glans, and ut six or seven inches down, i.e. near the bulb. But I have already given sufficient reasons for our being guarded in < Hipposing, that an obstruction to the passage of an instru- lunent at the bulb, is produced by a stricture. There are two circumstances, not hitherto much no- l ticed, to which 1 would particularly direct the student’s i ittention:— 1st. That there is not one example in a hundred of ' itricture occurring farther back, than immediately behind i ihe ligament of the bulb. 2d. That the ducts of the prostate, which are naturally v very small, are always more or less enlarged in cases of Kievere stricture. It must be evident that certain practical rules are to be i' leduced from these facts. 1st, If an instrument is ob- ► -trueted posterior to the ligament of the bulb, that we i nay suspect that the cause of the obstruction is not such .is will be overcome by the same means as a stricture ' would ; and 2d, We can now understand why, in a severe i :ase of stricture, we ought to be content with so dilating 1 he stricture, as to enable the patient to pass his urine freely,—and that we should not be too anxious to pass an it nstruinent into the bladder, for, in the attempt, the point i'nay enter into one of the enlarged ducts of the prostate, i ind consequently produce great irritation, and even lead