185 Tided into distinct parts, which are separated from each other by the septum which is called mediastinum. The lungs will be seen lying, collapsed, in each cavity; hut this is not the situation in which they would be, in a state of health, in the living body,—for, as there is then a complete vacuum in the chest, the lungs would be distended with air, so as to till it accurately. The heart, covered with its pericardium, will be seen protruding its apex to the left side. If there has been no disease in the chest, the serous membrane, which is called pleura, and which covers the lungs, and lines the inside of the ribs and diaphragm, will appear of a glistening colour. It is difficult for a student who studies anatomy from books only, to comprehend the folds and duplicatures of this membrane; for he is told, that it forms the Pleura Pulmonalis, Pleura Co stalls, and Mediastinum. But, on examination of the body, he will find, that these terms are used, only to denote the • several portions of the membrane. Perhaps the follow- ing mode of tracing the pleura will be explanatory of its folds, See.; but the student must first understand, that there is a distinct pleura in each cavity of the chest, i. e. one for each lung. This membrane may be considered as very similar to the peritoneum ; and we may say, here, as in the descrip- tion of the relation of the viscera of the abdomen to the peritoneum, that the viscera, though they appear to be within, are really external to the membrane. Taking this, then, for granted, the pleura of each side may be traced in the following manuer:,—If we pass the hand through the opening which has been made by removing the ribs, we shall feel the glistening surface of the mem- brane, covering the remaining portions of the ribs (this part of the membrane is called pleura costalis). If we then carry the finger along the ribs towards the spine, we shall feel the continuation of the same membrane: but we shall not be able to pass the finger farther in this di- rection, because the membrane is here connected with the root of the lungs, (forming the ligament of the lungs,) but if we pull up the lungs, we may see the membrane passing from the root to the upper part,— whence we may trace it, over the surface, down into the fissures be- tween the lobes, and at last, to the opposite part of the root;—this portion, which is continued upon the lung, is called pleura pulmonalis. If we still follow the membrane, it will be found to pass up from the root of the lungs, over the pericardium, to the sternum. If we R 3