291 C c 2 avoid it during operations on the face. We shall find that a line, drawn from the middle of the tube of the ear, to the opening of the nostril, will generally be immediately over the duct; but though we may mark its situation pretty accurately, we shall proceed with less dread in re- moving a tumour that is situated near it, if, instead ol trusting to our recollection of the situation of the duct, we pass a fistula lachrymalis probe into it:—this may be easilj done by everting the cheek ; for the opening of the duct will he found opposite to the second molaris. The bleeding, in most operations on the face, will be. commanded 1)3' the assistant pressing on the facial artery, where it passes over the jaw. After the removal of a tu- mour, the vessel may be secured by the twisted suture, which will, at the same time, hold the lips of the wound together. In this view, we shall see the danger of opening the temporal artery very low on the head. We should now return to the examination of the lower part of the neck. Before we divide the sterno cleido mastoideus, we should calculate the place that it may be necessary to cut this muscle, for the disease of wry neck. But this disease is general!; either in the sternal or clavicular portion only. By now laying the lower half of this muscle on the chest, and by detaching the sterno hyoideus and thyroideus mus- cles, we shall expose the thyroid gland.* If we make a slight cul into the gland, we shall form an idea of its vas- cularity, aud consequently of the troublesome htemorrhage which may ensue from its being wounded. I have, by in- jecting the carotids of a suicide, after death, proved tjbat the wounding of the gland* even without opening the trunks of the arteries which pass to it, is sufficient to cause a fatal hemorrhage. This should make us suspect, that there may be some danger in passing setons through the gland, especially as the trunk of the carotid has been found in it. When the four arteries of the thyroid are dissected, aad their connections with the sympathetic and par vagum are displayed, we shall he convinced, that the surgeon who al- * In this dissection, the anatomy of the salivary glands should ho attended to. The duct of the submaxillary gland of each side, will be found by the side of the freuuin linguae.—Those of the sublingual glands, open in rows on each side of the tongue. The situation of the duct of the parotid, has been already pointed out. Each of the glands, which are called buccales,— labiales, &c. opens by distinct ducts on the inside of the cheeks and lips.