2 G ting that the position of the parts is changed in consequence of death, but that the state of all the viscera, from the ■oesophagus to the rectum, varies, according to their being full or empty. We may now proceed to examine the common appear- ance of the parts within the abdomen. When the abdomen is first opened, a small portion of the liver will be seen to project from under the ribs; part of the greq^arch of the stomach will generally occupy the centre and left side. If the body be that of a young per- son, and if there have been no disease in the abdomen, the great omentum or epiploon will extend from the sto- mach over the small intestines. The great intestine, or colon, if distended, will lie very close to the stomach ; it may perhaps he seen under the transparent omentum. If we lift up the omentum from below, and turn it over the margin of the ribs, we shall then see the small intestines and the colon. If the bladder be distended, a small portion of it will he visible. Before examining the several viscera, we should attend to the inflections of the peritoneum. It is difficult for a young student to understand the relation which the peri- toneum has to the viscera; for when the abdomen is laid open, he is apt to imagine that the intestines are contained within the membrane: but it is not so; for if wp trace the peritoneum from the inside of the transver- salis muscle, we may strip it from the back of the colon ;— thus proving, that this intestine is not surrounded by it. By a little care, we may show that the membrane has the same relation to the other viscera, and to the muscles of the abdomen. Hence, the peritoneum has been described as a loose bag, the internal surface of which has the cha- racter of a serous membrane, which, being interposed between the muscles and the viscera, adheres to each through the medium of its external cellular surface. It is not easy to show all the connections of the peritoneum, for it not only forms a covering to most of the viscera, but; also holds them in a certain relative position to each other; whence, some parts of it have been described as ligaments, as, of the liver, spleen, colon, small intestines, &c« A student may form a general idea of the inflections of the peritoneum, by tracing it, from the inside of the right transversalis muscle over the colon, to form the lateral part of the mesocolon,—then to the small intcs- tinpg, to form the mesentery, — and from them to the sigmoid flexpre. of the colon and to the abdominal raus*