228 find, that the common carotid runs for a considerable dis- tance before it gives off any branches. The dissection of the branches from the subclavian, must, therefore, be first attended to. We cannot avoid seeing the mammaria interna, which passes down on the inside of the sternum; and if we look immediately opposite to it, we shall find the vertebrae rising from the upper part of the artery. These two branches are very regular; but all the others are so much the reverse, that the description which I shall now give, will in all probability not correspond with the vessels which are seen in the first dissection. Close by the origin of the mammaria interna, we shall probably find a large trunk, which may be traced towards the larynx, and under the carotid ; this will be the inferior thyroid. From the same source, and perhaps in union with it, another branch may be seen crossing the upper part of the neck: this last vessel is to be carefully followed,—for if it is small, it will be distributed on the muscles of the neck only, and be called the transversalis colli; but if it be large, it .may then be traced over the scapula, and thence be called the sdpra scapularis. There is generally another branch found here, which passes from the same trunk, in the line of the clavicle.—It is called the transversalis humeri. As these vessels are very irregular in their order of coming off from the subclavian, we must, in describing them, give the uame to the branches, and, tracing them back, apply it to the trunk from which they arise. If we now trace the subclavian a little farther, we shall see some small branches lying upon the scalenus: these sometimes arise in a distinct trunk, which is called cer- vicalis sufekficialis, bulthis is very frequently a branch of the transversalis colli:—cervicalis profunda is the !l name which is giveu to the artery that rises from the sub- R clavian, while it is passing under the scalenus anticus. Wheu the subclavian has passed about half an inch be-li| yond the scalenus anticus, we shall fiud that if the traus- : versalis colli has been small, that a large branch will be given off at this point, and which, as it passes to thejl scapula, is called the scapularis, or dorsalis scapulas.— The student must not call this description incorrect, if! , he does not find it correspond with the arrangement of the vessels which he discovers in the first body which lie dissects,—for he will, in the course of his studies, find > that the order of the branches of the subclaviau is ex- ceedingly irregular.