32D fumjtance of wounds penetrating the axilla; for, often, when a ball has passed through the arm-pit, or when it lodges, the track, or seat of it, may be discovered by the numbness in the part of the arm supplied by the extremi- ties of the nerve. Thus, if there should happen to be a wound of the hxilla, attended with great haemorrhage, and yet it is not evident whether the axillary artery or the subscapular artery be wounded,—if we find the muscles supplied by the radial nerve, to be paralytic, and the sensibility of the thumb and fore and middle fingers, lost, the ball, most probably, will have passed through the main artery, since the radial nerve clings around it. We may also consider how the head of the humerus being dis- located, may press on the plexus of nerves, or the artery, and cause one symptom announcing dislocation. The ques- tion may pass through our minds,—Does a punctured wound of the axillary artery call for amputation ?—Does a wouud, where the artery and the whole plexus of nerves are cut through, require amputation ? We should likewise consider the parts in the axilla, and the muscles of the shoulder, in relation to the amputation of the arm at the shoulder-joint. We ought to observe the great group of lymphatic, or absorbent glands of the axilla,—for these, when diseased, and clustering together, form a tu- mour, which it is dangerous to extirpate. The most important tumour, is that which is caused by the irritation proceeding from the cancerous breast. But we should recollect, that, if morbid matter be absorbed ia the hand, buboes may be formed here, as in the lym- phatic glands of the groin. These cases are so com* mon, that we may occasionally have opportunities, in the dissecting-joom, of examining them. We shall find that, when the glands are not far advauced in disease,—only- feeling hard and enlarged, if a small incision be made over them, there is danger of their escaping, by slipping amongst the loose cellular substance.—They should be firmly fixed with the two fingers, so that when the incision is made, they may start ouL; or the fingers should not be. removed from them, when small and moveable, until they are taken up by the assistant’s hook. If the glands have become much enlarged, they will form adhesions with the surrounding cellular membrane; and they will group together, forming a fixed indurated mass. In such cases, we often find numbness of the arm, andeedematous swelling. The numbness,we may understand to be aconsequence of the pressure on the nerves: the swell- ing is produced by the disturbance of the absorbents.