88 circular, with its concavity towards the anus. As there is no fascia covering this muscle, the fibres will now be seen, and may be fully exposed by cutting boldly iu the whole extent of the line of the semicircular cut, first iu a direction towards the anus, and then towards the ilium. We shall find that the muscle does not arise from the whole extent of the spine of the ilium, but that part of the spine is occupied by a portion of the gluteus medius, which is covered by a strong fascia. This fascia, which runs between the two muscles (and is united to the fascia lata), is now to be divided, from the spine of the ilium to near the trochanter. By then cutting through the origin of the gluteus maximus, from the ilium and sacrum, it may be easily separated from the medius, and thrown down upon the thigh, leaving it attached, by its insertion, to the linea aspera; and in doing this, we should raise as much of the cellular membrane as we can, along with the muscle. If this has been done care- fully, it will now be only necessary to dissect off the fascia from the upper and outer part of the gluteus medius, to make it distinct. When we wish to raise the gluteus medius, we should commence at the notch of the ilium, and remove the fibres from the dorsum of the ilium, as far as the anterior spinous process,—by commencing at the notch, we shall not endanger the gluteus minimus so much as we should, if we were to begin the separation at the upper and outer part. When the muscle is thrown down to its insertion, the gluteus minimus, pyriformis, (part of which might be seen before the medius was lifted,) GEMELLUS SUPERIOR, OBTURATOR INTERN US, GEMELLUS inferior, and quadratus femoris, will be all partially seen. Before we can dissect these small muscles, we must turn the heel out, by which we shall stretch their fibres, which arise from the pelvis, and are inserted into the head of the femur. The great nerve which crosses the small muscles may be cut across ; or by bending the knee, it will be re- laxed, so that it may be held aside. 1 may also remark, that it will be necessary to turn to the inside of the pelvis, before the obturator internus and pyriformis can be com- pletely dissected ; and that before the tendon of the obtu- rator externus can be seen, the quadratus femoris must be raised. To show the whole of the obturator, it will be necessary to remove the muscles which lie on the fore part; but this should not be done, until all the other muscles are fully examined. Before the muscles on the back of the thigh are eiposed, the student should refer to