280* If vve mark the lower edge of this muscle, and cut the membranous expansion, and then draw the muscle towards tlie ear, vve shall expose the sterno thyroideus, and the general sheath of the vessels and nerve.* If we open the sheath, by scratching upon it close to the edge of the sterno thyroideus, we shall then open only that division of it, which contains the artery ; so that neither the jugular vein nor the par vagum will be exposed, nor will the recurrent nerve he endangered; but if we draw the omo hyoideus towards the trachea, then we shall he obliged to cut upon the middle of the sheath, by which we shall come on the great vein and nerve, and perhaps on branches of the superior thyroid artery, which will make it more difficult to tie the carotid neatly. It will now be evident, that the great vein will be less endangered if the ligature be introduced between the vein and artery.— It need hardly be mentioned, that the sympathetic nerve lies close on the spine, and quite separated lrom the general sheath of the vessels. In making this dissection, we must not forget that the head is lying in a very different position from that of a patient on whom an operation is to be performed. As the patient will probably be sitting, with his head reclin- ing on a pillow, we ought to elevate the neck of the sub- ject into that position. The manuer in which the artery is here advised to be tied, is nearly the same as that which is given, in the Illustrations of the Grand Operations of Surgery, by Mr. Charles Bell. It differs considerably from the manner of operating recommended by Mr. Cooper, and by several other Surgeons. But before such a serious operation is performed, I would recommend the operator to read every thiug that has been written on the question, and to compare the several modes proposed. Many interesting cases will be found in the Medico-Chi- rurgical Transactions, related by Mr. Cooper, Mr. Dal- rymple, Mr. Vincent, and Mr. Coates; and also many ex- cellent remarks on the principle of the operation, in the Illustrations of Surgery, by Mr. Bell. At the place just pointed out, the artery may be cut down upon, so as to be compressed between the finger and thumb, or tied, when a very severe operation is to be performed below the angle of the jaw. It is hardly necessary to consider how the carotid should * Some branches of the descendens noui, will be seen upon the sheath and the muscle.