I6'0 tron ; but in the true inflammation, the vessels of the pia mater will be very numerous, and the membrane will be found thickened. Substance of the Brain —In the infant it is very soft; it gradually becomes firmer until extreme old age, and then it is found occasionally softened; though, at the age of ninety-seven, I have seen it as firm as that of a middle- aged person. It is very difficult to determine whether the great fullness of the vessels is to be taken as denoting that there has been any particular action in them during the life of the patient; because there is frequently an unnatural degree of fullness to be found in the vessels of the brain of per- sons in whom there were no symptoms of deranged func- tions during life.—I am, therefore, inclined to consider the fullness of the vessels, in the greater number of cases, to be in a great measure dependant on the posiLion of the head after death, and particularly in those cases of fever, where, in consequence of the blood not coagulating, it flows freely up by the deep veins, in which the valves are generally so imperfect, as to permit the blood to pass. We may often see a proof of this, in the quantity of blood which escapes after the brain is removed, if the head be left in a depending position. The air which is frequently seen in the vessels, is either generated by putrefaction, or rushes in when the scull is torn up. The substance of the brain is generally very tough and firm in those who have suffered from mania; and in these cases, the convolutions on the surface are also very dis- tinct. After epilepsy, we may expect to find solid tubercles in the substance ; but I have generally found them near the base of the brain. If the scull has been diseased, the inflammation may be propagated to the substance of the brain, and abscess may be found in it. In such a case, the disease can be traced from the external to the internal parts ; but in a case of abscess without disease of the bone, we may suspect that we are coming upon a diseased portion, when we find a part of the substance of the brain—green, and of a mottled colour. The fungus, or hernia cerebri, in consequence of fracture of the scull and laceration of the dura mater, will be found to be formed by a protrusion of a part of the brain, on the surface of which, there are several layers of lymph, that give it the appearance of fungus. But if the tumour arise after exfoliation of the bone and sloughing