229 The description ha9 hitherto been taken from the left *ide of the body. The manner in which the small vessels branch off, is not very different in the two sides ; but there is a most material difference in the re ative position of the great trunks, on the right and left side : this should be par- ticularly noticed in making the surgical dissection. As we have already loosened the attachments of the sterno cleido, muscle, by cutting through the sternum and clavicle, we may now lay it a little to one side. We shall then see the great jugular vein, lying almost over the artery, and the great nerve, the ear vagum, by the side of it; but at present, we need not attend particularly to these parts, but pull them to one side, and then trace the common carotid, with the forceps and scissars, from its origin, on the left side, from the arch of the aorta. The artery will be found to pass up by the side of the larynx, for three or four inches, without giving off any branches: here it is called the common carotid. It at. once divides into two great trunks, which are called the external and internal carotids. The internal will afterwards be found to pass to the foramen caroticum of the temporal bone, without giving off a branch. Hence, all the branches which we have to trace among the muscles of the throat, and on the face and temples, must be from the external carotid. The first branch which we shall find rising from the EXTERNAL CAROTID, is the SUPERIOR THYROID: this WC must trace downwards, towards the thyroid gland,in which we shall find it distributed, and uniting its branches with those of the Inferior Thyroid, which we have already seen coming from the subclavian. The next branch which is given off, is the lingualis: we may trace this along the line of the os hyoides, to the muscles of the tongue, where it divides into several branches; but be- fore we can trace these fully out, we must follow some of those of the next artery,—the facialis, or External Maxillary. Ttys comes off very often in the same trunk with the lingualis, and if not, it rises immediately after it. It runs first towards the lower part of the jaw, and under the muscles. (But as both this and the lingualis are covered by the digastricus and stylo hyoideus, it will be necessary to make a neat dissection of the muscles, before we can trace them farther.) After the facial emerges trom under the muscles, it passes into the substance of the submaxillary gland, through which, the branches must be carefully traced: from these, one branch will be seen to pass ou the anterior part of the mylo hyoideus; this