325 ment, into the palm,—and there, it will be found to divide into two principal branches, which are sometimes called the Sublimis and Profundus. The sublimis may be traced to the integuments on the ulnar side of the hand, and to the small muscles of the little finger; then, to the sides of the little fiuger, and one side of the ring finger. The profundus forms a sort of deep palmar arch, to supply the muscles. The muscular spiral nerve will be found lying quite behind the artery, and rising from the lower and back part of the plexus. It will be seen to give off many branches, almost at its origin, to the muscles contiguous to it. The trunk may be traced along with the profunda superior artery ; but we may generally observe a large branch rising from it, before it perforates the triceps ;—this branch accompanies the nerve and the artery, for a short distance; it will then be found to pass directly through the triceps, and to emerge upon the skin, by the side of the supinator longus, from whence it passes, to be distributed nearly in the same manner as the branches of the external cutaneous. The principal nerve may be traced between the brachialis internus and supinator longus ; it there gives off a branch to the elbow, and it then divides into the profundus and superficialis. The profundus may be traced through the supinator brevis; it will then be found to twist round the radius, and to divide into branches, for the supply of the muscles on the back part of the arm. But the other division—the superficialis, is by far the most important: it lies between the supinator longus and pronator teres,— from whence it may be traced between the supinator and fiexor carpi radialis, and so close upon the radial artery, that it might be called a radial nerve: when near the wrist, it passes under the tendon of the supinator longus, and there it lies directly over the radial artery, viz. be- tween the extensor muscles of the thumb. The nerve is dually distributed on the back of the hand,—on the back of the thumb,—fore, middle, and ring fingers. In recapitulation of the nerves which arise from the axillary plexus, they may be arranged thus:—Three to the shoulder; viz. supra scapular, infra scapular, and articular. Three to the skin;—external cuta- neous, INTERNAL CUTANEOUS, and CUTANEOUS of WrIS- berc. Three to the muscles;—radial or median, ul- nar, and muscular spiral.