204 several of lliese cases, there will be a hole found in the septum, so that if a probe be passed from the aorta, it will lie found to pass as easily into the right, as into the left ven- tricle. The valves of the pulmonary artery are very seldom found diseased. In the left auricle, we seldom see any marks of disease, but the osteum arteriosum is very often contracted ; indeed, the whole apparatus of the mitral valve, is more frequently ossilied than the tricuspid. Within the left ventricle, we shall find the same polypi at in the right, but not in the same quantity, as the blood is generally propelled from this cavity in the last struggles. The most common appearance of disease in the heart, is, ossification of the valves of the aorta. I am inclined to think, that this is so far a natural consequence of old age, that it does not produce much distress in a person above the age of sixty; but in a young person, whose left ven- tricle is still in a vigorous sLate, the consequences are ter- rible ; for, we find the heart sometimes increased to nearly the size of that of a bullock, and bearing evident marks of inflammation. The disease of Angina Pectoris is generally ascribed, and perhaps correctly, to ossification of the coronary ar- teries; but I am inclined to doubt the correctness of this opinion, when I find, in almost every body above the age of fifty, that these vessels are more or less ossified, in many old people, who I know never had the slightest symptom of angina, 1 have found the coroDary arteries like tubes of boue, through their whole course. When the heart is very large, we shall not find the aorta increased in size, but, on the contrary, smaller than natural. The aorta is frequently much dilated, immediately after it rises from the heart. This stale of the vessel, is gene- rally found in old people ; and when such a vessel is open- ed, there will be, at certain points, white spots below the inner coat,—and, at other parts, distinct concretions, which are generally called ossifications. This state of the aorta is so common, that we should not attach much importance to it, in drawing up a re- port of the dissection of a person advanced in years. In the dissection of those aneurisms which occur so fre- quently at the arch, we generally find the aorta to be dilated through almost its whole course. We may suspect, that the dilatation which I have just described, as com- mon in old people, may be the primary state of an aneurism ; for, if we minutely examine an artery which is dilated, we shall generally find one point thinner than the