122 the other may be traced between the two muscles, and along Poupart’s ligament, as far as the external abdominal ring; it then perforates the aponeurosis of the external obliqtie, and is lost upon the skin and scrotum in the male, and upon the labia in the female. Another nerve may also be traced from the first lumbar, across the psoas and iliacus internus; it pierces the trans- versals and internal oblique, and then it gives off several branches ; the principal one is that which passes along the crural arch to the upper part of the scrotum. We may now look to the second lumbar nerve, and from it we may generally trace a nerve which pierces the psoas, and crosses the iliacus internus, to pass out of the pelvis, between the two anterior spinous processes of the ilium ; it will then be found under the fascia lata ; here it appears a little en- larged, and immediately divides into two branches, one of which passes to the skin, but the other goes directly down- wards for a short distance before it pierces the fascia ; it is then distributed to the skin on the outer part of the thigh, nearly as far down as the knee. But the most im- portant branch of all these cutaneous nerves, is that which rises from the first lumbar, and, while it is passing through the substance of the psoas, receives a branch from the second lumbar. This nerve passes along the fore part of the psoas, and, when near the crural arch, divides into two branches, the largest of which follows the course of the spermatic cord, and is distributed on the scrotum and coats of the testicle; the other branch passes under the great vessels, and after giving twigs to the inguinal glands, sends a number of branches, through the fascia, to the skin on the fore part and middle of the thigh. Besides the branches which have just been enumerated, three or four nerves will be seen coming through the fas- cia, to be distributed upon the skin on the fore part of the thigh. These will be afterwards found to arise from the anterior crural. We should now trace the cutaneous nerves on the hip. In raising the skin from the gluteus maximus, we shall dis- cover, upon its upper part, a set of nerves which arise from the lumbari on the lower part of the muscle we shall find another set, which arise from the sacro-ischiatic, and the most important branches of which, pass to the skin of the perineum and anus. On removing the skin from the ham- string muscles, several cutaneous branches will be seen passing down on the outer and inner edges of the thigh. Those which are on the inside, (called the Posterior Inter- nal,) may be traced from the sacro-ischiatic, as it passes