90 When the skin is taken off from the hack part, very little fascia will be seen covering the large muscle, the gastrocnemius; but by continuing the incision from the heel along the sole of the foot, we shall discover a very s.trong fascia, which is called the plantar aponeurosis. To dissect this neatly, we should pull the thick skin of the foot forcibly to each side, and carry the knife, in a slanting direction, close upon the fascia. We may now proceed to dissect the muscles. The ex- ternal muscle of the calf, the gastrocnemius, is very easily shown, for we have only to carry the kuife in the direction of its fibres. In dissecting this, the edge of the next muscle, the soleus, will be exposed; hut before it can be fairly seen, the origin of the gastroenemius from the internal condyle, must be raised, and then we shall also see the small muscle (flantaris) which arises in union with its external origin, and runs down to the inside of the os calcis. In this view, the pofliteus, which arises from the lower part of the external condyle, and runs to the tibia, will also be exposed. To show the tendo Achillis, which is formed by the gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, we must re- move a large quantity of fat, which is situated between it and the next layer of muscles. The soleus may then be raised from its origins, from the tibia and fibula, and turned down with the gastrocnemius and plantaris, to their attach- ment to the os calcis. This will enable us to see the deep layer of muscles, which are covered by a strong fascia; but it will not be possible to trace these muscles to their in- sertions, until those of the foot are dissected. By cutting away the fascia, and all the vessels and nerves, with their surrounding cellular membrane, the origins of these mus- cles will be seen, viz. of the flexor pollicis longus, principally from the fibula—the flexor longus digito- rum, from the tibia—and, between the two, the tibialis posticus, which has an extensive origin from both nones. Each of these muscles passes belli mi the inner ankle, and is bound down by distinct annular ligaments; but before tracing them farther, we must dissect the muscles on the fore part of the leg. The fascia adheres very strongly to the muscles which arise from the tibia, and particularly to the tibialis anti- cus, so that it is rather difficult to take it off neatly. In removing it, we must take care that we do not cut through the annular ligaments at the ankle. If we trace the tibialis anticus, we shall find it pass to the internal cuneiform bone. The muscle which lies close upon it, and arises