89 pletely freed of the blood and water, by being repeatedly squeezed, they are in a tit state to be injected ; but previous to injecting them, a long iron sound should be passed into the bladder; which will, in some degree, preserve the parts in their natural position. The while cold injection, or the plaster of Paris, rnay be injected into the cavernous body, by the pipe in its crus; an assistant being prepared with a twisted suture, to close the opening in the other crus as soon as he perceives that all the blood and water have been pushed out by the injection. When the caver- nous body is sufficiently filled, the cold red injection is to be thrown into the vein on the dorsum of the penis. The assistant must he very active in pushing the injection along the spongy body ; but, as he will seldom succeed in filling the bulb from this source, we should be prepared to inject, also, through thepipein theglans. As soon as the injection in the penis has become hard, the bladder should be filled with plaster of Paris; but as the plaster would spoil a common syringe, we should make an apparatus for the purpose: this is easily done by tying a stop-cock to an ox’s bladder, into which an opening has been made in the fundus, so that a quantity of plaster may be put into it. The slop-cock being then passed into a pipe, which has been previously fixed iu the ureter, the piaster may he pushed on so as to fill the bladder. The vesical* seminales may now be filled with mercury, by making an opening into each vas deferens, as it passes over the fundus of the bladder. We may also try to inject the testicles, hy throwing the quicksilver in the opposite direction. The parts require very little dissection ; but it is necessary to watch them carefully while they are drying, so that they shail keep their natural position. After they have been thoroughly dried, they must he well varnished. It will he very useful to have a wax model, or cast, of the urethra and bladder, in their natural situation. For this purpose, we should choose a subject in which the blad- der is very much contracted. After the parts have been removed, with a small portion of the bone, in the same manner as the last preparation, and a rough dissection of the penis and bladder has been made,—some very hard and tough wax injection should be thrown into the ure- thra, by the opening in the glans,—and into the bladder, by the ureters. When the injection is cold, the bladder is to be opened, so that we may remove the cast. If the cavernous and spongy bodies have been previously well cleaned, we may put the penis and bladder into a strong aluminous spirit before cutting out the cast, so that