59 description there is of it in the greater number of books on anatomy. Such a dissection as has been described, will enable the young student to understand the principal parts connected with the passage of the semen, of the urine, and of the fa*ces; and will enable him to follow the descriptions which are given in the “Systems of Anatomy.” As it will not be possible in this view, to gain more than a general knowledge of the parts which are cut in lithoto- my, I shall only remark at present, that, in this operation, after the external muscles are cut through, the knife is in- troduced into the membranous part of the urethra, and is carried on, so as to cut the lateral part of the prostate; the level of the incision being sufficiently high to avoid the vesicula serainalis. Although the pads may not have been dissected in the manner best adapted for showing the causes which prevent the introduction of the catheter, yet it may be •well to remove the staff, aud again to introduce it. In doing this, we cannot avoid observing, how liable the instrument is to be caught at the bulb, and the danger there would be of forming a false passage, if we force it on. When we open the urethra, we shall find that there is, at this point, a natural pouch, which is called the sinus of the urethra. By putting the hand on the bladder, and pushing it to- wards the rectum, we shall see the attachments which it has to the os pubis, and which are called its anterior liga- ments. Between these we may see a number of holes, which form the labyrinth through which the veins of the penis pass. The rectum should now be taken away, so that we may get a better view of the vesicular, vasa deferentia, and ureters. After these parts have been examined in their relative situation to each other, the bladder and penis should be removed from the pubes. To do this, it is only necessary to separate the right crus of the penis from the bone, and to cut through the ligaments of the bladder, and the vasa deferentia and ureters. The bladder, when de- tached, is again to be distended, and a straight staff is to be passed into the urethra. The cellular membrane may then be removed more carefully from the lower part of the blad- der, so that the vesicular seminales and vasa deferentia shall be still more distinctly seen. To show the lateral lobes of the prostate, it will be only necessary to remove the cellu- lar membrane, and the large veins that are upon it; but if we follow the vasa deferentia quite into the prostate, and then separate them from each other, we shall see the little