27 D 2 cles of the left side, from which it may again be traced towards the right side. It is more difficult to trace the peritoneum from above downwards. We may begin to trace it at the diaphragm; from which it may be seen to pass oft' to the liver. From the liver, we may trace it, under the name of the lesser omentum, to the stomach,— then, from the stomach to the arch of the colon, as the great omentum. If we hold up the colon, we shall be able to trace the peritoneum, from the surface of the gut towards the spine, as the mesocolon, or, as it is sometimes called, “the ligament of the colon”, and which is needlessly divided into two portions called “ right and left mesocolon”. From the lower part of the meso- colon, we may trace it to form the mesentery of the small intestines. From this it passes down to the rectum, and here it is called “the mesorectum”. In the female, we may trace the membrane to the uterus, to form the liga- ments of thisviscus, and then, as the plica semilunaris, to the bladder; from which, as in man, we may again trace the peritoneum to the muscles of the abdomen,— and, so, round to where we began.* The principal difficulty in following the inflections of the peritoneum, is owing to the great, or gastro-colic, omentum, the laminas of which have been always matter of great annoyance to the student. If the omentum be not thickened by disease, it will be seen running from the stomach down nearly to the pelvis and if it be lifted up, it will be found attached to the arch of the colon. If the colon had been far removed from Lhe stomach, then the omentum would have appeared more simple; for in this case, we might have traced one layer from the upper, and another from the lower surface of the stomach, to the corresponding parts of the colon; but as the colon lies close upon the stomach, and as the omentum is of a great * I shall here enumerate certain parts of the peritoneum, which have not yet been mentioned ; the student will have no difficulty in discovering them, without any further description :—ligamentum dex- Iritm ventriculi; the vinculum oesophagi; vinculum inter cesophagum el lienem; plica renalis et capsularis; plica a rene ad colon; plica duodena renalis; plica hepatico renate. When the lower part of the muscles of the abdomen are cut from the umbilicus to the ossa ilii, three lines will be seen on the peritoneum,—the central one, from the fundus of the bladder to the umbilicus, is formed by the part which in the foetus was called “urachus”; and the two lateral lines are formed by the remains of the umbilical arteries. These parts are external, but adhere so closely to the peritoneum in the adult, as to appear to be produced by a thickening of the membrane.