57 with the saw,—not exactly through the symphysis, but rather to the left of it; but in doing this, we must take care that we do not cut the origin of the gracilis muscle, on the inside of the thigh. The bone having been sawed through, and the viscera of the pelvis held aside,—and the fibres of the levator ani being carefully cut, the knife (without regarding the pyriformis, great nerve, See.) is to be carried through the parts, up to the notch of the ilium; and then the thighs being forcibly pulled asunder, the left leg will be separated from the trunk, at its union with the sacrum. The muscles on the hack part are then to be cut, and the left limb removed. In making this section, some of the arteries and nerves, with certain muscles of the left side, will be necessarily destroyed ; but they may be preserved if we make the division more iu the middle of the pelvis: to do this, we must pull the viscera quite over to the right side, so that we may saw through the middle of the sacrum and the symphysis of the pubes; but in doing it, we must carefully avoid the urethra. By proceeding in this manner, the muscles of the hip will be saved, but still the deep muscles of the back must be cut through by a cross incision ; however, these muscles are of little importance, compared to the parts seen in the lateral view of the pelvis: indeed, the body should be divided immediately above the sacrum, before the perpendicular section is made. This last method may be sufficient to give a ge- neral idea of the bladder, rectum, and urethra; but to form an accurate notion of the relation of these viscera to each other, we must make the section according to the manner first described. The view which is now given, will seem somewhat con* fused to a dissector, in his first essay ; for he will not, as yet, be able to distinguish the bladder or rectum : but to make them distinct, it is only necessary to distend them. By introducing a blow-pipe into the urethra, the bladder may be blown up; but if the staff has been passed iuto the urethra, the bladder may be distended by blow- ing into one of the ureters. A small quantity of hair is again to be put into the rectum. The form and situa- tion of the bladder will now be distinct; but as the surface will still be obscured by the peritoneum which covers a great part of it, it may be useful, even in a first dissec- tion, to pay some attention to the folds of this membrane. The peritoneum will be seen passing from the muscles of the abdomen to the fundus of the bladder, and from that, continued down upon the back and lateral parts.