328 drawn; the upper ligature was then tied as high as pos- sible, and the other as low,—but there was, still, just as much space left, between the ligatures, as to allow of the artery being divided with safety.” On my questioning the utility of dividing the artery between the ligatures,— my friend agreed to my objections; saying, that he had done it, in compliance with the opinion of his senior, as he did not conceive any harm could result from it. The patient lived sufficiently long, to show, that the calibre of the artery was properly obliterated by the liga- ture : she died in consequence of hsmorrhage from the face of the stump,—which, on dissection, was discovered to have come from the subclavian, above the ligature, through the supra scapular branch of the inferior thy- roid. This is highly important to recollect; because it is a proof that, in a case of axillary aneurism, even though the subclavian has been tied, still the aneurismal tumour may be supplied with blood from the anastomosing branches, and may at last burst, even though the main trunk may be obliterated above the aneurism. We should now examine the parts in the axilla. These parts are so exceedingly complicated, that no surgeon should venUre to operate upon them, unless he has such a knowledge, as will give him boldness and decision. In making the dissection, we should endeavour to keep the parts as much in their natural situation as possible. After laying bare the tendons of the pecloralis major, and of the latissimus dorsi, we have to observe the place of the axillary glands,—the size of the branches of the thoracic arteries, and of the scapular,—and also the nerves which come from the intercostal spaces, to pass amongst them. The whole plexus of nerves, and tbe axillary artery, will be found to be braced down by a web of aponeurosis.—When this is lifted, we shall find that thie nerves closely surround the artery ; which shows, that the artery, when wounded, must not be secured by diving with a needle: by such an operation, the nerves would be in- cluded,—and the ligature would not come away until it was cut from the bundle of nerves. When the nerves and artery are disentangled, and the divisions of the plexus are traced, we may recognize the radial nerve running upon tbe fore part of the humeral artery ; the ulnar nerve taking its course towards the inner condyle of the humerus; the muscular spiral nerve passing through the triceps, and behind the bone ; tbe external cutaneous nerve passing before the humerus, and through the coraco brachialis. We should then turn our attention to the cir-