48 of the vena portae, -which are called penicilli. The biliary ducts, which have been described as conveying the secre- tion from the acini, are, at their commencement, called pori biliurii. The examination of the structure of the spleen will be still less satisfactory, for we cannot even discover a duct in it. When the substance is minutely injected, it appears to be made up almost entirely of vessels, the extremities of which appear to communicate with cells, which are connected by cellular membrane that has a particular stel- lated appearance when a section is made. The use of this part will probably remain always a problem ; but when we look to the immense size of the vein passing from the spleen to the vena portae, we must suspect it to be in some way subservient to the liver. The pancreas has much resemblance, in its structure, to the parotid; and if we inject its duct, we shall find it dis- tributed in the substance of the gland, in the same manner as the ducts are arranged in the salivary glands about the jaw. The structure of the kidney is more easily understood thau that of any other viscus. The parts may be seen in the uninjected kidney, but much more distinctly in one which has been minutely injected. Before we can understand the structure of the adult kidney, it is necessary to know, that in the fetal state, it is composed of a number of lobes, which give it, at that age, a lobulated form ; but to see the several lobes in the adult kidney, we must make a section of it. Each lobe may be considered to be almost independent of the others; for a separate branch of the renal artery passes to each, and has so little communication with those of the other lobes, that we may inject each of them with a different coloured fluid. The cortical part of the kidney appears to be that in which the secretion of urine is effected. It is highly vas- cular, and when minutely injected, small round bodies, which are called corpora globosa, or cryptae, are seen in it ; these have, by some anatomists, been described as small glands,—by others, as the termination of the convo- luted artery. From these bodies we may discover small lines passing towards each of the white papilla; in the centre: these lines are said to be the tubuli uriniferi, terminating in the ducts that are called the ducti Bellini, and which carry the urine that is secreted in the cortical part to the papillae. Upon each papilla a depression may be seen, and if we squeeze the part of the kidney corresponding to it,