173 Corrugator SCPERCILII. Or. The internal angular process of the os frontis. In. The skin under the eye-brows, near the middle of the arch. Use. We have no power over the individual muscle. The corru- gators knit the eye-brows, and are antagonists of the last muscle. Orbicularis Ocui.i. Or. 1. By many fibres, from the edge of the orbitary process of the superior maxillary bone ; 2. from a tendon near the inner angle of the eye. These run. a little down- wards, then outwards, over the upper part of the cheek covering the uuder eye-lid, and surround the external angle. Being loosely con- nected only to the skin and fat, they run over the superciliary ridge of the os frontis, towards the inner canthus, where they intermix with those of the occipito frontalis and corrugator supercilii ; then, covering the upper eye-lid, they descend to the inner angle, opposite to tire inferior origin- of this muscle, adhering firmly to the internal angular process of the os frontis, and to the short round tendon which serves to fix the palpebrm and muscular fibres arising from it. In. The nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, covering a part of the lachrymal, sac. This muscle should be divided into the external and internal mus- cles,—the internal is the CILIARIS that covers the cartilages of the eye-lids, which are called cilia or tarsi. Orbicularis Oris. This consists of circular fibres, which surround the mouth, and constitute a great part of the thickness of the lips. Use. To shut the mouth, and to oppose the muscles which con- verge to be inserted into the lips. Part of this is sometimes described as a distinct muscle, viz. Nasalis Labii Superioris. Or. The fibres of the orbicularis muscle. In. The lower part of the septum nasi. Use- To draw down the point of the nose, by operating on the elastic septum. Zygomatic us Major. Or. The zygomatic process of the os malm. In. The angle of the mouth. Use. To draw the corner of the mouth obliquely upwards. Zygomaticus Minor.—(Often wanting.) Or. The upper pro- minent part of the os malm, above the origin of the former muscle. In. The upper lip, near the corner of the mouth, along with the levator anguli oris. Use. To draw the corner of the mouth upwards. Depressor Anguli Oris. Or. The base of the maxillary bone near the chin. In. The angle of the mouth, uuiting with the zygomaticus major and levator anguli oris. Use. To pull down the corner of the mouth. U3