A a 3 bottom of the eye, so as to expose the whole of the inner part of the choroid, which, in the sheep, is black aud green. The choroid may now be easily separated, with the handle of the knife, from the sclerotic. Before we commence the examination of the minute i[ structure, we ought to fix the eye; and this should be done in such a manner, that we may, in the course of the dissection, be enabled to put the eye into water,—for there are soule parts too delicate to be dissected, unless they are, at the same time, supported in a fluid. Any thing in the form of a small egg-cup, or pill-box, will hold the eye sufficiently steady to enable us to examine the principal parts; but we should at once so fix it, that we may con- tinue the dissection through the whole organ. The most convenient mode of doing this, is to attach the ball of the eye, with a few pins, to a piece of cork, about an inch in diameter, and half an inch in depth, which has been pre- viously hollowed out, and fixed to a saucer with sealing- wax. The pins may be pushed through the coats; or it will be better to put the pins into the cork, and then to pass three or four threads, at different points, through the sclerotic, about half an inch from the nerve ; the threads are theu to be fixed to the pins. If it be too much trouble to make this apparatus, two small nails, slightly bent, may be laid across each other, and fixed to a saucer with sealing- wax ; the eye may then be easily attached to them. In ad- dition to the saucer, we should have a glass globe, one third of which has been cut off; for after the parts have been dissected, they will be seen to great advantage by filling this globe with water, and then inverting it over the saucer: the manner of doing this, does not require much ingenuity to discover. We may now proceed to make a very minute examina- tion of all the parts already mentioned. The transparent cornea, and the sclerotic, are so inti- mately connected, that, on the first examination, they will appear to be parts of the same coat; indeed, we cannot separate them; yet by maceration, the connection between them, will become so completely loosened, that the cornea will fall from the sclerotic, like a glass from its frame. Even in the fresh state, we can show that they are of dif- ferent textures. To do this, the cornea must be cut from the sclerotic by a pair of sharp scissars (in doing which, the aqueous humour will escape), and then by taking the