7 collecting, that in this space are contained the soft viscera of the abdomen, and that these must be sustained by an elastic and yielding covering, it will be understood how this covering, whilst it supports the viscera, and yields to aud assists the operations of the diaphragm, must support and poise the whole trunk upon the pelvis; and that al- though the muscles are thin and delicate, yet, having so great a lever as the edge of the thorax, while the centre of motion is in the spine, they must bend the upper part of the body with great force. We may now perceive that the abdominal muscles are muscles of respiration, that they are muscles of the trunk, and that they compress and re- tain the viscera. Considering them as muscles of respira- tion, the student will be led to understand how peculiari- ties in the manner of breathing become a symptom of disease, and why we endeavour to substitute the action of these muscles, and the diaphragm, for the external mus- cles of respiration, in fractures of the ribs, sternum, &c. The question, Do the viscera of the abdomen suffer an unceasing pressure? is a very important one. When on this subject, we are led to consider how the effects of pressure of the abdominal muscles may become a means of diagnosis in diseases of the abdomen; and what are the effects of the removal of pressure by the delivery of the child, or the drawing off the water in ascites. But still, the most important subject of inquiry in the dissection of the abdominal muscles, is, the anatomy of the openings by which the intestines generally protrude in in- guinal or femoral herniae. But before the young student can attend with advantage to this subject, he ought to make himself master, of the dissection of the viscera of the abdomen, and of the muscles and arteries of the thigh. However, before describing those parts, I shall here in- troduce part of a paper which I published some years ago, descriptive of the anatomy of hernia. Anatomy of Hernia. It must have been remarked by every one who has been much in the society of students, that there is no subject which they are so anxious to comprehend as the anatomy of hernia. Those who have read much on the question before they have dissected the parts, begin in utter hope- lessness of understanding the subject; but if they be di- rected in their operations, they will, in the second or third attempt, make an accurate display of the parts; but still they will not be satisfied ; they believe that there must be something mysterious and unusually difficult in those fasciae