•285 assistance been brought sufficiently early, the child might have been saved by a cut with the lancet. The success attending a case which is related by M. Chevalier, wrould induce us to open the larynx at this part, when a child is dying of croup. We may now consider the Surgery of the Arteries. We now know that if we were to turn up the edge of the sterno cleido mastoideus, that we should come upon the sheath of the carotid artery; but before we expose it, we should think of all the diseases and accidents to which the artery is liable. The cases already recorded of aneurism of the carotid artery, prove, that it generally takes place at the bifur- cation. Seeing the proximity of this, to the sensible part of the larynx, we can understand how the aneurismal tumour may be pressed in upon it, by the platysma, and thus produce irritable cough, and symptoms referable to pressure on the nerves of the larynx. This irritation has been the cause of the death of some patients, upon whom, even the operation of tying the carotid was performed ; but this is no reason against the operation; on the con- trary, it is a motive for its early performance, and before the tumour is much enlarged. Before an operation is decided on, we should carefully weigh all the circumstances of the case. It is important to recollect, that a small tumour situated over the artery, so as to be moved at each pulsation, has been occasionally mistaken for aneurism. I have not only heard of such instances, but I have even been consulted in a case of enlargement of one lobe of the thyroid gland, for which the patient was sent a journey of forty miles, that the carotid artery might be tied, to cure the supposed aneu- rism. The question will force itself upon us, Where is the artery to be tied? If the aneurismal tumour be lower down than the bifurcation of the carotid, then it will be very difficult to decide, and probably the operation will be unsuccessful, as we must either come too close on the tumour, or too near the origin of the carotid; however, if we may judge from the cases already recorded, the tu- mour will generally be formed at the bifurcation,—and when it is so, the most advisable point to tie the carotid, will be, where it is crossed by the omo hyoideus. When the edge of the sterno cleido mastoideus is raised in a strong man, neither the artery, vein, nerve, nor even the sheath of the vessels will be seen, but only the omo hyoideus, covered with a broad and smooth membrane.