78 which are all bound together by cellular membrane and the fibres of the cremaster. The spermatic artery is the most difficult vessel to discover, as it is very small. The veins are very numerous, and easily seen. The man- ner of showing the absorbents will be described presently. As the vas deferens feels like a piece of whip-cord, com- pared to the other parts, there will be no difficulty in finding it. The cord should now be cut through, at its exit from the abdominal canal; but before we attempt to demon- strate the course of the vessels which convey the semen, we should inject some mercury into the vas deferens. The quicksilver will very seldom pass into the tubuli testis, but will generally reach as far as the rete testis. After the injection is made, we may remove all the parts of the cord, except the vas deferens. In cutting away the veins from the body of the testicle, we may observe, that they have a peculiar form, somewhat resembling the tendrils of a vine,—whence they have been described as forming a corpus pampiniforme; and which is, from its pyramidal form, sometimes called corpus pyramidale : but this is more distinct in the testicle of the bull, or ram. We shall now see, that the vas deferens, as it passes downwards, be- comes very much convoluted ; and that its convolutions lie on the body of the gland,—in such a manner, as, by the ancients, to have been described as a distinct body, under the name epididymis—(didymi, or twins, being the name given to the testicles). The first distinct turu which the epididymis takes, is on the lower part of the testicle: and here it forms a little eminence, which is called globus mi- nor;—while the part at which the epididymis terminates, is called the globus major. We should now put the body of the testicle into water, and then, by cutting through the tunica albuginea, we shall see that the gland is composed of a mass, — which, though apparently fibrous, may be proved, by a successful injection, to be composed of tubes. These tubuli are divided into sets, by portions of cellular membrane, which are called sepimenla. We may now trace the parts of the seminal duct, from the tubuli to the vas deferens: by raising the coats towards the epididymis, we may, perhaps, see the vessels called vasa recta, which pass from each bundle of the tubuli, to form the intricate plexus called rete testis,—and which is continued to- wards the globus major, and gives off, within the cellu- lar membrane covering it, the vessels which are called vasa efferentia, or vascular cones. The union of theso vessels may be considered as the beginning of the