220 WHEN THE SECTION OF THE VERTEBRiE IS MADE. 1. Ligamenlum Commune Posterius, or Fascia Lott- giludinalis Posterior. 2. LigamentaSubjiava CrurumProcessuum Spinosorum. The connection between the occiput, atlas, and dentata, ic very different from the other parts of the spine. The capsular ligaments between the atlas and dentata, are looser than between any of the other vertebras,—there is no intervertebral substance between them; but the fascia longitudinalis anterior is so much stronger at the middle, that it almost forms a distinct ligament. The atlas is at- tached to the occiput, by distinct capsular ligaments, sur- rounding each condyle* and there is also a ligament which surrounds the foramen magnum, and is connected to the upper margin of the atlas, which, as it has, on its internal aspect, some resemblance to a funnel, was called by Winslow, the eigamentum infundjbieiforme. The middle of this ligament is strengthened, on the anterior part, by a continuation of the fascia longitudinalis ante- rior,—and on the posterior part, by a ligament something similar to the funiculi ligamentosi. All these connections may be seen by merely dissecting away the muscular fibres which cover them; but to see the deep ligaments, the bones must he cut in a certain manner. As it is supposed that the brain, &c. have already been examined, we should cut through the spine, at the fifth cervical vertebrae, and then cut through the vertebrae longitudinally, leaving only the transverse processes at- tached to their bodies. We should then carry the saw in the same line, so as to cut through the occipital bone, immediately posterior to the condyles: as this cut will also go through part of the temporal bones, we must take care to keep to the posterior part of the mastoid processes, that we may not destroy the joint of the jaw. The first thing which we have to observe, is the firm attachment of the dura mater to the edge of the fora- men magnum, and to the upper cervical vertebrae. When we tear off the dura mater, we shall see below it, a set of ligamentous bands, which run from the edge of the fora- men magnum,—are then connected to the upper vertebra*, and appear to terminate about the third or fourth ver- tebra ; these bands form the apparatus eigamentosus. We can now feel the processus dentatus; and by dis- secting away some of the apparatus ligamenlosus, we shall see two portions of ligament, which arise from the