60 projection of the gland that has been called the middle lobe, and which, in consequence of a mistake made in the description of the morbid anatomy of the prostate, has, of late years, been considered of muc h more importance than it deserves. W'e may now take off the muscular fibres, &c. from that portion of the urethra which is between the prostate and the buib, so as to give it more resemblance to a membranous port, as it is generally described : the staff being still in the urethra, will prevent us from cutting it. The bulb and Cowper’s glands should also be made more distinct. Before examining the structure of the cavernous and spongy bodies, they should be distended. One of the crura of the corpus cavemosum is to be tied, and a blow-pipe fixed into the other. Though this body may be fully dis- tended, the spongy body will still remain flaccid, for there is no direct communication between it and the cavernous body. To distend it, it will be necessary to make a punc- ture, sufficient to admit a blow-pipe into its substance. A bougie, or straight staff’, being still in the canal, the bladder, prostate, and urethra are to be laid open, by cut- ting them through on the upper part, so as to avoid injur- ing the points of demonstration, which are all on the lower surface. The mucous coat of the bladder will be seen to extend along the urethra to the glans. In the lower part of the bladder, we may perceive the entry of the ureters, and those little eminences which pass from them towards the prostate; and which have been proved by Mr. Bell to be small muscles for regulating the opening of the ureters. By squeezing the vesieulae, the opening of their ducts, and of the testicle, will be discovered by a brown fluid issuing from au eminence on the anterior part of the pros- tate. which, though called the verumontanum, or caput galliuaginis, is only a loose portion of the internal mem- brane, which projects so as to form a pouch, or sinus, that opens towards the glans. The cavity formed by it has been called siuus Morgagni, or sinus pocuiaris. By blowing tow aids the bladder, the membrane will be raised; but the vesieulae will not be distended, as is generally sup- posed, for their ducts do not open into the sinus, but on each side of the membrane. By squeezing the body of the prostate, we shall see its white secretion issuing by a number of ducts on each side of the verumoutanum. By a little care we may pass bristles into the ducts of Cowper's glands; but they are