157 called the fourth sinus : this runs to the point of union betweeu the longitudinal and two lateral sinuses—the union forming the torcular hierophili. On the lower edge of the falx, a very small sinus may be discovered, which is generally called the inferior longitudinal, or fifth sinus.—By pouring a solution of corrosive sublimate in muriatic acid, diluted with a large quantity of water, upon the base of the scull, the blood in the lesser sinuses will be coagulated, so as to make them apparent. This solution will, at the same time, make the nerves appear more distinct. The sinuses in the base of the scull are generally named according to the parts on which they are situated, with the exception of the cavernous sinus and circular sinus ; the first of which is on the lateral part of the sella turcica ; the other surrounds it. All the rest are included under the names of sphenoidal, petrous, and occipital ; their particular appellations being given according to the parts of those boues on which they are situated. As it will be necessary to destroy the muscles of the back before we can examine the spinal marrow, it ought not to he done at present, though the description of the manner of doing it, is intioduced here. The easiest way of opening the spinal canal, is, to cut through the roots of the spinous processes with a saw, or, •still better, with a large knife (a plumber’s hacking knife) and a mallet, and then to tear up the processes with a pair ot pincers. This will expose the sheath of the • spinal marrow, which is a continuation of the dura mater. On opening the sheath, we shall see the medullary cord, sui rounded by its proper coats, the tunica arach- ii noides and pia mater: but besides these, there will be also a membranous connection seen between the lateral ; part, of the spinal marrow and the sheath, which is ccontinued, by distinct and pointed slips, from the sub* • occipital nerve to the second or third lumbar nerve. 'This membrane, from having some resemblance to the teeth ol a saw, has been called the ligamentum denticu- L uATtJ.M. '1 be spinal cord, at first view, appears to be uniform; out when we remove the membranes, we shall see a fissure, svhich, on the posterior part, is continued from the cala- oius scriptorius; and on the anterior, from the fissure be- ween the corpora pyramidalia; Thy these, the column is • divided into two lateral parts, each ol which is subdivided nlo an anterior and posterior portion. This we can more