227 cava, after it has been formed by the union of the great branches. Though the lesser veins are not of much importance, and though they will scarcely be seen, unless they are in- jected or very much distended with blood, still 1 shall enumerate them. The vena mammaria interna of the right side, joins the upper part of the superior vena cava; that of the left side, joins the subclavian vein, opposite to the cartilage of the first rib. The diaphragmatica SUPERIOR, or PERICARDIO-DIAPHRAGMATICA, Oil the right side, joins the upper part of the vena cava ; the left joins the subclavian, below the mammaria. The thyjviica, on the right side, sometimes joins the vena cava, but some- times the gutturalis, or thyroid vein, or some neighbour- ing branch: on the left side, it empties itself into the subclavian vein. The pericardiac vein, on the right side, enters the root of the subclavian vein : on the left side, it joins the subclavian vein, or the diaphragmatica, or the mammaria interna. The thyroid vein, or tracheaeis, or guttural is of the right side, passes into the upper part of the vena cava: of the left side, into the upper and back part of the left subclavian. The distribution of these veins is described by their names. It is for the most part very regular; but their communications with ' the larger veins are very inconstant, and differ in each side as the great trunks are different. The dissection of the arteries is now to be continued. When the whole of the pericardium is removed, the arch of the aorta will be seen, and, arising from it, the arteria INNOMINATA, the LEFT CAROTID, and the LEFT SUBCLA- VIAN. Before these arteries are traced, the left lung may be pulled up, so that the descending aorta may be • seen; but we should not as yet cut away any of the ribs, to show the small vessels which arise from this part of the aorta. After making these trunks distinct, we should dissect the origins of the sterno cleido mastoideus ; and upon one side, (disregarding the relative situation of the parts,) cut off two inches or the clavicle, and an inch of the first rib, with a small portion of the sternum. But before we 1 do this, we should look under the sternum for the mam- maria interna, and separate it, so that we may preserve it : as a detached vessel. After having made these cuts, which of course must be done carefully, a great many branches *ill be exposed. The principal ones will be found to come from the subclavian; for if we dissect between the larynx and the sterno cleido mastoideus muscle, we shall