83 Fourchelte and anus, is called the anterior perineum ; while the part between the anus and os coccygis, is the POSTERIOR. If we separate the labia, we shall see, immediately under the mons veneris, a little projecting red body, with some loose skin covering it; this is the glans and prepuce of the clitoris. The two thin folds of membrane which may be traced downwards from the prepuce, are the kyhpm, or alas minores,—between which, and about three quarters of an inch below the clitoris, we shall dis- cover the prominent opening of the urethra. The upper part of the vulva is called the vestibulum ; and below the level of the urethra, it is called orificiuji vagim, which, in the virgin, is bounded by two folds of membrane, that nearly meet in the middle, and form the part called hymen : w’hen this is ruptured, there are little fleshy eminences seen on the lateral parts of the vagina, which are generally supposed to be the remains of the hymen, and are called carunculie myrtiformes. As the dissection of the muscles here, is not of much importance to the student, I shall give only a table of their origins and insertions. The muscles of the female perineum, are— Erector Clitoridis. On. From the crus of the os ischium internally: in its ascent it covers the crus of the clitoris, as far up as the os pubis. In. Into the upper part of the crus,—-and body of the clitoris. Use. To erect the clitoris, by pushing the blood into its cavernous substance. Sphincter Vaginal Or. From the sphincter ani, and from the posterior side of the vagina, near the perineum ; from thence it runs up the side of the vagina, near its external orifice, opposite to i the nymphse, and covers the corpus cavernosum vaginae. In. Into the body, or union of the crura clitoridis. Use. Contracts the mouth of the vagina, and by compressing the corpus cavernosum, pushes the blood into the clitoris and nymphae. Transversalis Perinei. Or. As in the male, from the fatty cellular membrane which covers the tuberosity of the os ischium. In. The upper part of the sphincter ani,—and into a white tough substance in the perineum, between the lower part of the pudendum and anus. Use. To sustain the perineum. Sphincter Ani. Or. As in the male, from the skin and fat unrrounding the extremity of the rectum. In. Into the white tough substance in the perineum,—and below, i into the front of the os coccygis.