295 Eression or hole in the external tables, yet there will proba- ly be an extensive fracture of the tabula vitrea;—this, it is evident, will require a large trephine. If the head be allowed to fall on the vertex,—or if it be struck with a heavy body, as when a brick-bat falls from a building on the top of the head,—we may find that the fracture has taken place at one, or both, of the temples. In performing the operation, we should pay particular attention to the various degrees of thickness iu the dif- ferent parts of the scull. In a rickety person, we may ex- pect that, at certain points, the scull will be very thick. As we shall find that, in the greater number of sculls, there are no marks by which we can be guided in judging of the thickness,—we shall be satisfied of the justness of the rule, that, the operation of trephine should always be very cautiously performed. There are certain points, which a dissector, who had not seen much practice in surgery, would be afraid to set his trephine upon,—as, for example, in the course of the longitudinal sinus; but experience shows, that there is no danger in opening the scull here. The manner in which the meningea media frequently runs in the substance of the bone, will prove to us, that, in the greater number of cases where the trephine is applied over its course, it must be cut; but this should not alarm us,—for when the ar- tery is cut, the bleeding can be easily stopped. The practical surgeon will agree with the dissector, in considering it very difficult to apply the trephine over the frontal sinuses, or in the line of the spine of the os fron- tis.—When the external table of the frontal sinus is re- moved, we can understand how the membrane lining it, has, in some operations, been mistaken for the dura mater. By striking the scull smartly with a mallet, the dura mater will be detached from the bone, at the part struck : if the head be afterwards injected with size, a coagulum will be found at this part. This experiment would lead us to doubt the accuracy of Mr. Abcrnethy’s explanation of the cause of effusion of blood between the dura mater and the bone. While the student has these parts before him, he should read the Works of Pott, John Bell, and Aberuethy, and of Charles Bell;—in the Fourth Number of the Surgical Observations, by Charles Bell, he will find many remarks applicable to the question of the varieties of fracture.