112 bilicus; but in the adult, or old subject, we shall find the artery stop rather abruptly before it reaches the bladder. This will be explained by the dissection of the foetus, for there we shall find that the internal iliac is continued to the umbilicus as the hypogastric or umbilical artery, the upper portion of which gradually degenerates into liga- ment as a person advances in years. In the adult, small branches, which are called vesicates superiores, are sent to the fundus of the bladder, from the termination of the artery: they will be seen more dis- tinctly if the bladder be distended. If we hold aside the bladder, we shall probably see certain other branches passing towards its middle, and which are called ve- sicates mediae. These come off generally from the artery, just as it is turning up from the trunk of the in- ternal iliac; but they are very irregular. If we now pull up the bladder, and separate it a little from the rectum, we shall see branches passing towards the prostate and the vesiculie seminales. The origin of these cannot be seen at present, as they generally arise from the pudic. A section of the pelvis, such as has been described at page 57, must be made, before we can trace these branches, or the continued trunk of.tbe iliac. After having made the section, and partially distended the bladder with air, the dissection of the internal iliac may be resumed. The branches of this artery are so irre- gular in their mauner of coming off, that we should trace them for some distance before we attempt to name them. If we should find one going towards the obturator muscle, it will be the obturator; and if we see another large artery passing down towards the outlet of the pelvis, and dividing into two branches, it will probably be the com- mon trunk of the ischiatic and pudic. The large vessel which runs in the angle between the sacrum and the ilium, and appears like the continued trunk of the iliac, will be the gluteal. But the vessels do not always come off’ in this order. The most irregularis the obturator; for it frequently rises from the external iliac, in union with the epigastric. In dissecting these branches, it will be most convenient to begin with the obturator. This may be very quickly traced ; and having finished it, the pudic may be next fol- lowed. There is some difficulty in dissecting the first set of arteries which the pudic gives off, for they supply the viscera of the pelvis, and are united with the branches of the inferior mesenteric. In the male, we shall find branches passing to the middle of the bladder (vesicates media), to