302 Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Or. The interna! condyle ofthe o* humeri, and side of the olecranon, and from the fascia. fN. The os pisiform, and ligament of the wrist. Flexor Carpi Medius, or Palmaris Longus. Or. The in- ternal condyle of the os humeri, from the intermuscular ligament: it forms a neat small belly, and by a long slender tendon, has— In. Into the annular ligament of the wrist, and palmar aponeu- rosis. EXTENSORS OF THE WRIST. Extensor Carpi Radialis Longior. Or, From the lower part of the external ridge of the os humeri, above its external con- dyle, and below the supinator radii longus. In. The back and upper part of the metacarpal bone that sustains the fore finger. Extensor Carpi Radialis Brevior. Or. 1. The external condyle of the os humeri ; 2. the ligament that connects the radius to it. In. The upper and back part of the metacarpal bone that sustains the middle finger. Extensor Carpi Ulnaris. Or. 1. The external condyle of the os humeri; 2. the ulna, from its posterior border. In. The posterior and upper part of the metacarpal bone that sus- tains the little finger. MUSCLES OF SUPINATION AND PRONATION. Proper Supinators ; that is, those which turn the palm of the hand upward, and have no other office. Supinator Radii Longus. Or. The external ridge of the os humeri, nearly as far up as the middle of that bone. In. The lower end of the radius, on its outer side. Supinator Radii Brevis. Or. 1. From the external condyle of the os humeri ; 2. from the external, and upper part of the ulna ; 3. the ligament which joins these two bones. In. The neck and tubercle of the radius, and ridge running downwards from the tubercle. Pronators ; that is, which throw the palm of the hand prone te the ground. Pronator Radii Teres. Or. 1. The internal condyle of the humerus ; 2. tendinous from the coronoid process of the ulna. In. The outside of the radius, about the middle of the bone. Pronator Radii Quadratus. Or. The lower part of the ulna : the belly of the muscle runs transversely. In, The lower and outer part of the radius. «