4 iar in his attention to it, but wait until he makes the surgi- cal view, which will be afterwards described. We may now look to the general appearance of the mus- cle. First, the origins of the muscle from the side of the thorax, come down in thin layers over the ribs; then a stronger and more fleshy part is seen winding round be- twixt the false ribs and the ilium; tho expanded tendon on the fore part of the belly, is bounded by the linea alba; and the muscular fibres are divided from the tendinous part by the linea semilunaris, which is that tendinous white line which runs, in a curved direction, from the os pubis to the margin of the ribs. In the space betwixt the two lines the rectus is indistinctly seen through the transparent tendon, and intersected by white bands, which are formed by the union of its intermediate tendons with the tendons of the oblique muscles. In the middle of the linea alba the remains of the um- bilical opening will be seen. It appears like a perforation in the tendons, and is filled up by a dense cellular sub- stance, the remains of the umbilical vessels. The perito- neum will afterwards be found firmly attached to this part. To dissect the next muscle, (internal oblique,) the body should be thrown a little more upon one side. The dis- section is to be begun by separating the serrated origins of the obliquus externus from the ribs, and from its con- nection with the latissimus dorsi. The external oblique is then to be held as if it were the skin, and is to be detached from the internal, by carrying the knife in a direction pa- rallel to the fibres of the latter, taking care to leave the cellular membrane which lies betwixt the two, on the ex- ternal muscle. It is difficult to separate the two muscles from each other at the upper part, farther than the linea semilunaris, for at this line their tendons are united firmly ; but on the lower part of the abdomen, the whole extent of the internal oblique may be easily shown by cut- ting through the attachment of the external oblique to the ilium and Poupart’s ligament. It is not easy to deter- mine which should be the origins, and which the insertions of the internal oblique, for the origin tnay occasionally be considered as the insertion, and vice versa. Here, we may describe it as arising from the two thirds of the iliac por- tion of Poupart’s ligament; from the whole extent of the spine of the ilium; and from that fascia formed by the tendons of certain muscles of the back, which is called fascia lumborum (this origin is sometimes described as from the lowest lumbar vertebra and os sacrum, by a tendon, which also gives origin to the serratus posticus