1G nalis, is generally thin at the lower part, but very strong at the neck. Before describing what are the probable causes of stricture, there are some circumstances to be recollected. To produce strangulation, the gut must be compressed in the whole circle; strangulation cannot be produced by the muscular fibres which stretch over the gut, for they relax occasionally ; as, for example, when a patient faints. The hole through which the gut is pushed is passive ; its diameter is never diminished, but the protruded gut swells and is increased in size. The most common seat of stricture in inguinal hernia is the external ring; for though we do not see the ring until we have dissected the parts, still we can feel it, even before the skin is removed, by pushing the finger up along the cord- If the sac has been opened, if the external ring has been cut, and the stricture still continues, what is the cause of stricture? It cannot be produced by the mar- gins of the internal oblique or transversalis muscles, for they will relax. Since we are told by high authority, that the stricture, in such a case, is caused by the internal ring, we cannot deny that it may occasionally happen; but we should be more inclined to say, that the stricture is not caused by the internal ring itself, but by the neck of the sac, which is situated at that part. Our reasons for supposing so, are the following: In the dissection of the parts, in their natural or ruptured state, there is no internal ring, until it is made by pushing up the cellular membrane which surrounds the cord ; and even then, if we try its strength, we find it very weak, and particularly on the inner part; while the neck of the sac is generally so strong, that we might as easily break a circle of whip cord as tear it. The external ring, and the neck of the sac, may be considered as the most common seats of stric- ture ; but there are varieties, into the consideration of which it would be impossible to enter at present. There is a species of inguinal hernia called the direct or ventro inguinal, which has been already mentioned as having the epigastric artery on its pubic side; in several other respects it differs from the common inguinal hernia. It does not come along the inguinal canal, but passes di- rectly through the external ring ; it is not covered by the cremaster or any part of the fascia transversalis, but only by the fascia propria and superficialis. The peritoneum is as liable to be thickened in this species as in the other. We have seen in operation the sac a quarter of an inch in thick-