145 aence of there being frequently many of the glandulae acchioni in it; and, from its being crossed by a number f small filaments, which, as well as a set of bands that re situated on the outside of the sinus, have been called le coaojs Willisii. By putting the probe under one of lose cords, we shall probably pass it into the mouth of le of the veins which enter, in a lateral direction, from ! ie pia mater.—We cannot prosecute the course of the i uuses farther, in this stage of the dissection. Our next step must be, to raise the dura mater: to do lis, we should cut through it, opposite to the ear, on both des, and, with the scissars, carry the incision forwards early to the spiue of the frontal bone,—and on the back art, to the perpendicular ridge of the occipital bone, he lateral parts of the dura mater, may then be turned p towards the longitudinal sinus: this will expose the i ibstance of the brain, covered by the tunica arach- oides and pia mater. In doing this, no adhesions will 2 found between the dura mater and the other mem- anes, except at an inch, or half an inch, from the sinus, his adhesion has a white, granulated appearance, which is often been described as the effect of disease. When e tear this up, we shall see the veins of the brain i itering into the sinus; and by breaking down the con- ■ ;ctions on both sides, we may see that prolongation of 'hie dura mater, which is called the falx, and which sepa- ites the upper part of the brain into two hemispheres ; id by merely pulling aside the masses of the brain, and assing down the handle of a knife between the hemi-. >heres, we may expose this septum, in all its length. On its. iterior part, we shall see that it is very narrow, and that is attached to the crista galli of the ethmoid bone;— it passes back, it is seen to increase in depth, until it i :comes attached to the tentorium; but the tentorium nmnot be seen in this view,—nor until a considerable part I the brain is removed. The scissars should now be aissed betw een the anterior part of the hemispheres, so as ' divide the connection between the falx and crista galli ; i<e falx may then be pulled towards the occiput, as a few v.iall vessels are the only means of adhesion between it d the brain. The dura mater having been thus laid D/Wn towards the occiput, we may examine the next Hembraue—tunica arachnoidea. If there be no effusion f serum on the surface of the brain, it will be difficult to <e the membrane, on account of its transparency ; but l ien there is effusion, the membrane will be apparent, 'ithout any preparation,—as the membrane will then be 0