xin INTRODUCTION. in the situation as demonstrated in the dissecting-room, or exhibited on the table of the lecturer. It would scarcely be believed, that. I have occasion- ally found some difficulty in impressing the importance of such a course of study -a difficulty originating in an ad vice* which is given by many, to students, viz. “not to read'’—and this upon the authority oft Mr. Hunter. I shall only ask, What kind of anatomy would nine-tenths of the students, who are to spend only a short time in London, learn? or of what use= would it be to them, if their views were not properly directed, by the study of good books? The argu- ment in favour of not reading, is, that the first im- pressions of a student should be derived from the dissected body. With this opinion* I most cordially: agree; but this argument offers no reason, why student* should not, at the same time, take advantage of the hints'contained in> books* written by those who have known how to attach'the due degree of' importance to each:part. Perhaps it willibe allowed, that the prof- itable consequence of the advice of not reading, is, that: the student never reads a- book on the subject, but is apt to become one of those self-taught ge- nhisesj. who, throughout his life, is making absurd; and! fancied discoveries in, anatomy and surgery*. B have often found, that the same student* who have been advised not to read, have also been told, that they should not attend* the dissecting-room dur- ing the first season of their studies; but, that they should acquire- their first ideas* of anatomy, from the appearance of the; dissected body on the lecturer S table. Surely there is an inconsistency in these two opinions;—the latter can never have been given by those vrho have had extensive opportunities of seeing the eourse of a student’s progress. 1 would advise a student to attend the operations in the dissecting-room, from the first;—for though he should not use the knife himself, until he has a general idea of the structure of the body, he will have an opportunity of correcting the erroneous notions