68 importance will be cut. The bleeding which takes place in an operation that has been well performed, will be prin- cipally from the large veins which may be seen surround- ing the prostate and neck of the bladder. The next practical question founded directly on the anatomy, is the point through which the puncture of the bladder is to be made from the rectum. After the bladder has been fully distended with water, the finger should be passed into the rectum, that we may form some idea of the feel of a distended bladder. It is very difficult, even in the healthy slate of the parts, to distinguish between the prostate, the vesiculae, and the muscular coat of the bladder; but if there be much cel- lular membrane interposed between the bladder and rec- tum,—and if the coats of the bladder be thickened, as they generally are in those cases which require the bladder to be punctured,—I believe that it will be found almost im- possible to recognize the different parts, so as to mark the boundaries of that triangle which is described as having the peritoneum for its base, the vasa deferentia for its sides, and the prostate for its apex. When I have made immediately below the arch of the pubes, and had not been continued farther down than the upper part of the transversalis muscle,—and even this muscle had not been cut through. Now, it is easy to understand, that by such au operation, it must be almost impossible to avoid cutting some important arteries. If this middle operation (as it was called by a young friend of mine) were the one generally performed as the low operation, it would not then be surprising that some gentlemen should have a de- sire to change the inode of operating; for instead of the stone being easily extracted, as it may be, when the operation is performed low in the perineum, it will be pulled by the forceps against the rami of the pubes,—so that the patient may be dragged off the table before the stone is extracted. If the stone should be extracted by such an incision, the chances are, that some of the vessels will be cut, and the patient die of haemorrhage : if he escapes this danger, he may still be in jeopardy in consequence of the urine not having a depending opening by which it may easily pass off after the ope- ration. When discussing the operation of lithotomy with some of the young students in the dissecting-room, I have very often put this question when the body is before them,—“ W~hat « your object in performing the operation of lithotomy?” Though this question is considered rather insulting, still it leads them to form a correct no- tion of one of the great principles of the operation, viz. to cut low in the perineum, that the extraction of the stone may not be obstructed by the narrow part of the bony arch. *