303 MUSCLES MOVING THE FINGERS, LYING ON THE FORE ARM. FLEXORS. Flexor Sublimis Pertoratus. Or. 1. The Internal condyle •f the os humeri; 2. the corouoid process of the ulna ; 3. the tu- bercle of the radius ; 4. the middle of the fore part of the radius, where the flexor pollicis longus arises. The tendons pass under the ligament of the wrist. In. The second bone of each finger, being, near its extremity, divided for the passage of the tendons of the perforans, or profundus. Flexor Profundus Perforans. Or. 1. The side and upper part of the ulna ; 2. from a large share of the interosseous ligament, and remotely through the fascia from the inner condyle ; its tendons pass under the annular ligament of the wrist, and then pass through the slits in the tendons of the flexor sublimis. In. Last bones of the four fingers. Flexor Longus Pollicis Manus. Or. 1. The side of the eoronoid process of tire nlua; 2. the radios, immediately below its tubercle; it is continued down for some space on the fore part of the bone ; 3. the interosseous ligament : its tendon passes under the ligament of the wrist. It has an origin, frequently, from the internal condyle of the os humeri. In. The last bone of the thumb. EXTENSORS, MUSCLES OF THE FINGERS AND THUMB. Extensor Digitorum Communis. Or. X. From the external •ondyle of the os humeri, where it adheres to the supinator radii brevis. Before it passes under the tigamentum carpi annulare ex- ternum, it splits into four tendoDS, some of which may be divided into several smaller. On the back of the hand, the tendons are, often united by interchange of tendinous filaments. In. The posterior part of the bones of the fingers, by a tendinous expansion. Use. To extend all the fingers. Extensor Minimi Digiti. Or. The external condyle : the fas- cia of it adheres to the common extensor. In'. The last bone of the little finger. Indicator, or Extensor Primi Digiti. Or. The middle of the hack part of the ulna ; its tendon passes under the same ligament with the extensor digitorum communis, with part of which it is— In. Into the posterior part of the fore finger. Extensor Primi Internodii Pollicis Manus, velOssi? H etacarpi Pollicis. Or. J. The middle and posterior part of the ulna, immediately below the insertion of the anconeus muscle ; D s 2