yy Extensor Loncus Digitorum Pedis. Or. 1. The outside of the head of the tibia. 2. The head of the fibula, where it joins with the tibia, and spine of the libuia. 3. From the interosseous liga- ment. 4. From the tendinous fascia which covers the outside of the leg. IN. The root of the first bone of each of the four small toes, and is expanded over the upper side of the toes, as far as the root of the last bone. Use. To extend the four lesser toes. i Extensor Proprius Pollicis Pedis. Or. Beginning some way below the head and anterior part of the fibula, along which it runs to near its lower extremity, connected to it by a number of fleshy fibres, which descend obliquely towards a tendon. In. The first and last joint of the great toe. Use. To extend the great toe. MUSCLES OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT, AFTER DIS- SECTING THE PLANTAR APONEUROSIS. SHORT MUSCLES OF THE GREAT TOE. Abductor Pollicis Pedis. Or. The inside of the protube- rance of the os calcis, where it forms the heel; and from the same bone, where it joins with the os navioulare. In. The internal os sesamoideum, and root of the first joint of the great toe. , Use. To pull the great toe from the rest; but its power is lost by the use of shoes. Flexor Brevis Pollicis Pedis. Or. 1. The under and fore part of the os calcis, where it joins with the os cnboides. 2. From the os cuneiforme externum; it is inseparably united with the abductor and adductor pollicis. In. The external sesamoid bone, and root of the first bone of the great toe. Adductor Pollicis Pedis. Or. 1. The os calcis. 2. The os cnboides. 3. The os cuneiforme externum, from the root of the metatarsal bone of the second toe. In. The external os sesamoideum, and root of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Use. To bring this toe nearer the rest; but by the pressure of the shoe, its power is much reduced. MUSCLE8 OF THE LITTLE TOE. Abductor Minimi Digiti Pedis. Or. Side of the protube- rance of the os calcis, and from the root of the metatarsal bone of the : little toe. * In. The root of the first bone of the little toe. . Use. To draw the little toe outwards from the rest; and also ’ to bend the toe.