79 epididymis; which may now be traced backwards to the globus miuor, as a duct very much convoluted. As it rises from the globus minor, it is called the vas deferens, —which name it retains, until it terminates in the urethra. We very frequently find a vessel called vas aberrans, passing off from the vas deferens, and terminating in a cul de sac. The name of corpus highmoriancm is given to the part of the testicle where the vasa recta unite to the rete testis. I shall now describe the manner of making a few pre- parations of the viscera of the pelvis, that may be useful to the surgeon ;—some of them may be made from the same body in which the parts in the perineum have been ex- amined. If, after dissecting the muscles, we saw through the rami of the pubes and ischium, below the part where the crura penis arise,—and then detach the bladder, &c. with the rectum, from their connections with the posterior and lower part of ihe pelvis,—we may remove the whole of the viscera in connection with the os pubis. By a little care, we may also keep the testicles attached to the bladder, through the medium of the vasa defereutia. The bladder is then to be emptied, and the vesicul® and prostate are to be squeezed, so that all their secretions shall be pressed out. The lower part of each crus of the penis is to be opened;—a small pipe is to be fixed into one of them, through which a quantity of warm water is to be injected. The water, passing through the cellular structure, and septum pectiniforme of the cavernous body, will carry the blood with it, and escape by the hole which has been made in the other crus. A probe is to be passed along the vena dorsalis penis, towards the glans, so as to break down all the valves; and a pipe is then to be fixed into the vein, by which warm water is to be injected, so as to wash the blood out of the spongy body. It has generally been sup- posed, that, to distend the spongy body, it will be suffi- cient to inject from this vein; but I have seldom seen a good preparation made in this way. I have always found it safer to make another opening into the back part of the glans, of sufficient size to admit a small pipe; so that, if the injection from the vein docs not succeed, the glans and spongy body may be easily filled from this opening. After the cavernous and spongy bodies have been com-