89 the table of origins and insertions, for a description of the muscles which he has just dissected. The limb is to be then extended, and laid on its fore part. The dissection should be begun on the inner part, by dissecting behind the gracilis, by which we shall come upon the semitendinosus that runs from the ischium to the inside of the tibia: between it and the gracilis, we shall find some fibres of the adductor magnus ; these, how- ever, at present, we should neglect. In dissecting the origin of the semitendinosus, we shall discover the origin of another muscle which passes towards the outer part of the leg; and if we follow it, we shall find that it is united with a set of fibres which arise from the back part of the linea aspera, and that the two portions, when united, pass down to the head of the fibula; this is the biceps, and is the muscle which forms the outer ham-string. Before re- moving the fat and the nerve and artery which are in the ham, between the semitendinosus and biceps, we should dissect the muscle that arises from the ischium, below the semitendinosus, and is inserted into the head of the tibia. This muscle is distinguished from the semitendinosus by the name of semimembranosus, which is given to it, from its membranous appearance. These two last muscles form the inner ham-string. After removing all the vessels, nerves, &c. from the ham, the back part of the adductor magnus may be easily exposed through its whole extent; and the opening in it through which the artery passes from the fore part of the thigh into the ham, will be also seen. In making this last dissection, we shall necessarily ex- pose the origins of the gastrocnemius ; but the muscles of the leg should not be traced, until we have made our- selves completely master of the anatomy of the muscles of the thigh,—nor should the skin be raised, for as long as the muscles are covered by the skin, they will keep fresh. The dissection of the muscles of the leg is to be begun by making an incision from below the patella, along the spine of the tibia, to the great toe, and another along the middle of the back of the leg, from the knee to the heel;—• Ihe skin only, is then to be removed. This will expose a fascia, which, though very strong on the fore part of the leg, becomes still so much stronger at the ankle, in conse- quence of additional cross slips of fascia, that it is there described as forming particular ligaments, which are called' annular ligaments. The fascia upon the fore part of the- foot is very thin, being little more than cellular membrane* I 3