87 We may now dissect the muscles which are on the in- side of the thigh. But before beginning, we should se- parate the thighs a little, by which the thin muscle (the gr acilis) that passes from the pubes to the leg will be more easily dissected. Upon the inside of the gracilis, we shall see a mass of muscles passing from the pubes to the linea aspera; this is principally composed of the three which form the triceps or adductor. To dissect the first of these,—the adductor longus, we have only to follow its fibres from the pubes to the linea aspera; but in doing this, we shall be obliged to cut through the great vessels, nerves, &c. which are passing from the pelvis to the leg : this, however, ought to be considered of no consequence ; for in the first dissection, every thing should be sacrificed to the muscles. If we continue the dissection towards the union of the os pubis and ilium, we shall expose the fibres of the muscle called pectinalis. In tracing it down to its insertion, we shall be obliged to remove a number of vessels, glands, &c. by which we shall expose the insertion of the psoas magncs and iliacus internus into the tro- chanter minor. By dissecting between the pectinalis and adductor longus> we shall discover the adductor brbvis, which has very nearly the same form as the pectinalis. After this, we may dissect part of the adductor magnus ; but before we can expose all the fibres of this muscle, we must turn the leg : however, this is not to be done yet, for while the leg is in the present position, we should dissect the vastus internus, which arises from the greater ex- tent of the thigh bone, and is inserted into the patella. When the dissection of this muscle is finished, the rectus may be raised and held aside, so that the crurbus, which is between the vasti, may be seen. It is difficult to se- parate the vasti neatly from the cruraeus; for the only guide which we have, is a few vessels which pass between the muscles. After having made the origins and insertions of these muscles distinct, (for which see the annexed table,) the leg should be turned, and the muscles on the back part dissected. The first muscle which is to be dissected is the gluteus maximus. Before commencing, we should endeavour to make its fibres tense, by putting a block under the pelvis, and throwing the leg over the table and fixing it there, with the toes turned inwards. An incision is then to be made round the spine of the ilium, and another from the middle of the spine of the sacrum to opposite the tro- chanter major,—this last incision should be slightly semi*