232 membrane of the mouth from it. When this is done, we shall he enabled to pull the jaw aside, so as to enable us to trace the trunk a little farther, and perhaps to see its first principal branch, viz. the denial artery, which passes into the lower jaw ;—but in a first dissection, this vessel is to be sacrificed*,—for the whole of the side of the jaw should be removed ; but to do this safely, and at the same time to enable us to expose all the branches of the maxil- laris interna, we must also remove the whole of the os malae, and zygomatic process of the temporal bone. This may be done, by first cutting with the saw through the maxillary and frontal process of the os mala:, and the root of the zygomatic process;—and therewith a blow of the chisel and hammer, the parts will he so loosened, that they may be easily dissected off. The insertion of the temporalis should be cut from the coronoid process of the jaw ; and by then merely cutting close upon the bone, and using a little force, we may remove the whole of the remaining part of the jaw. When the bones are removed, the parts will appear in great confusion, as the arteries are buried in the temporal muscle, and part of the two pterygoid ; but, as w e have no object now in preserving these muscles, we should trace the branches of the great artery through their substance, with* out fearing to sacrifice their fibres: indeed, to make the branches distinct, we shall at last be obliged to cut the muscular fibres entirely away. The first branch that comes off from the internal maxil- lary, is one of little consequence,—but the next, is of the greatest importance, the meningea media,—for this is the vessel which supplies the principal part of the dura mater: it may be traced into the foramen spiuale of the sphenoid bone. The next set of branches will he found passing through the substance of the pterygoid muscles.— We shall then see the stump of the small branch which passes into the spinal hole, to supply the teeth, viz. the denial, or inferior maxillary. The next branch is, the tem- poralis profunda, or media, which passes into the substance of the temporal muscle, and runs close on the bone. The main trunk of the maxillary now becomes so crooked, that we shall be in danger of culling it through, if we are not very cautious. It will be found lying on the back part of the superior maxillary bone;—and here it gives off some small branches, which are called alveo/ares superiores, as they pass to the teeth of the upper jaw. * In making a preparation, we may preserve the dental aitery, bj leaving a small portion of the jaw.