12 The tendon of the external oblique is now to be cut through in two directions; one in a line drawn from the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium to the linea alba, and the other in the linea alba to the pubes. The tendon of the external oblique is to be carefully sepa- rated from the internal oblique, and is to be fastened by a hook to the fore-part of the thigh. This will give us a view of a great part of the inguinal canal. The cord will be seeu lying under the lower margin of the internal oblique, and so connected by cellular membrane to the edge of the muscle, that it is difficult for a student in his first dissection to tell what is muscle and what is cord. This is in a great measure owing to the cremaster muscle, for it certainly varies consideraby in the manner in which it takes its origin ; the view may be made more distinct by pulling the cord in a direction towards the scrotum, and taking off the cellular membrane from it and from the margin of the internal oblique. By doing so, we shall see that the internal oblique is not attached to the whole extent of Poupart’s ligament, but that, at two inches and a half from the symphysis pubis, its attach- ment to the ligament ceases; it then passes, in the form of an arch, to the tubercle;* and to the linea ileo-pectineaf of the os pubis, so as to assist inclosing the space behind the external ring. At the termination of the connection of the internal oblique to Poupart’s ligament, the fibres which form the cremaster muscle come off; but as these fibres occasionally arise from Poupart’s ligament, the cord sometimes appears to perforate the internal oblique; i. r ; > ' 1 « • t y ■ I — ■ * Spine of the os pubis ; tuberculum spinosum ; tuberosity of the pubes. t Linea ileo-pectinea; linea innominata, continuous with the crista. t M. Cloquet describes the cremaster as formed by some fibres of the obliquus internus, which are pulled down by the testicle and gubernaculum, during the descent. He says that these fibres have two distinct attachments, one to the belly of the obliquus internus, and the other to the os pubis ; so that each fibre forms a loop (des auses), similar to extensible cords, which, when fixed at their two extremities, are drawn down in the middle. He also says that the testicle occasionally passes through the substance of the internal oblique, and then, the same appearance of fibres is found both before and behind the testicle ; and that an inguinal hernia in a fe- male frequently pushes down some of the fibres of the internal ob- lique before it, so as to form “ un muscle cremaster accidentel.”