45 rally obliged to pass a probe from the ductus communis choledochus into the gut, to mark the point at which it enters. A few muscular fibres, resembling those of the muscles of the ureters in the bladder, may be discovered in connection with the opening. The whole of the intestinum tenue is of the same struc- ture, having a peritoneal, muscular, and villous coat; but as the jejunum is a larger and thicker gut than the ileon, the different coats will be more distinctly seen in it. If we tear off a portion of the peritoneal coat, in the direction of the length of the gut, we shall see the longitudinal muscular fibres ; if w e take it off' in the circle, the circular fibres will be shown. The muscular coats of the stomach and intestines will be more distinctly seen after the part has been plunged once or twice into boiling water. The valvulas conniventes, or folds of the mucous or villous coat, will be seen by inverting a portion of the intestine, and putting it into water; if we distend the inverted gut with air, and then squeeze it, we shall show the cellular coats. The minute structure of the intestines is more distinctly shown by injecting part of them with size and vermilion ; to do this nicely, we should cut off a portion of intestine, with its mesentery, and, after tying the two ends of the gut, put a pipe into that vessel which appears to be the trunk of the branches that are passing to the iutestine. Upon the injected gut, some small transparent vessels maybe seen, running in a longitudinal direction; these are the lacteals ; and by opening one with a lancet, we may distend it with air, or mercury, which perhaps will pass into the glands of the mesentery, and then into the se- condary vessels which pass to the thoracic duct. When the injected gut is opened, the villous nature of the internal membrane will be more evident; perhaps some white points may be seen upon the surface ; they are the mouths of the lacteals, full of chyle ; but this appearance will only be found when the process of absorption has been going on immediately previous to death. The best illustration of the lacteal system is made, by giving an animal some meal and milk about an hour previous to killing it, and by putting a ligature round a part of the intestines, or by tying the thoracic duct immediately after death. The lac teals will be then distinctly seen, filled with the white matter which is called chyle; they are much more nume- rous on the jejunum, than on the ileon. The colon is next to be examined : there can be no diffi- culty in distinguishing this from any of the other iutes-