243 Y 2 The trunk of the IXth may be traced a little forward, but not far, as we shall have a better opportunity of see- ing it presently. The sheath of the vessels may now be opened. Imme- diately between the artery and vein, the great nerve, the par vagum, will be seen ; and if we lift up the sheath al- together, we shall find the sympathetic, lying close upon the muscles of the spine. These nerves may be exposed for a short distance ; but, those below the angle of the jaw, must be dissected, before we can show their connections. The first nerves which we should dissect under the jaw, I are the three which pass to the tongue. We have already seen the IXth, or motor lingua. If we now hold aside the submaxillary gland, and cut carefully through themylo hyoideus, we shall see the gus- tatory; and by lifting up the lobe of the parotid gland, and dissecting along the line of the stylo pharyngeus and glosso pharyngeus muscles, we shall find the gxosso pharyngeal, which is the third nerve of the tongue.* But to facilitate this part of the dissection, and of the other deep nerves, the jaw should he cut through at the symphysis and at the angle; and after the membrane of the mouth- has been separated from the bone, the inter- mediate portion may he removed. A piece of twine is then to be put through the tip of the tongue, by which it may be pulled out. By holding aside the remaining parts of the jaw, a great nerve will be discovered, emerging from between the two pterygoid muscles ; this is third of the VtU, being the trunk, of the gustatory, and of the in ferior maxillary. After the inferior maxillary has been traced into the hole in the jaw bone, it should he cut through, and a piece of coloured thread attached to it, by which we may again recognize it. The remaining portion of the jaw may now be removed ; but we must be particularly careful in extricating the condyle, or we shall be in danger of cut- * The gustatory nerve connects the salivary glands and muscles of mastication.—The ninth is the nerve of speech, and connects the tongue with the muscles of the larynx and trachea.—The glosso pha- ryngeal nerve associates the tongue aud pharynx in the action of de- giutilion. We may now comprehend how the tongue, being put into action through the intervention of distinct nerves, may be deprived of one faculty, and retain the others.—Thus, affections of the brain, and sometimes the disorders of the bowels, deprive the pr.tient, at one time of taste, at another of speech, or at another of swallowing.