30 may now be held up by an assistant, that we may hate a view of the gall bladder, and of those vessels and duels ■which are contained within the capsule of Glisson. On holding up the liver in this manner, we shall underslaud the derivation of the name, porta, for the part of the liver into which those vessels are passing, has something of the form of a gateway; whence the name vena portae has been given to the principal vessel of the liver. When the arteries and veins are injected, there will be no difficulty in discovering the several parts ; but even in the uninjected state,' they will be easily found, by merely taking oft' the cellular membrane investing them. The vessel on the left side will be the hepatic artery; the large vessel in the middle is the vena portas; the ductus com- munis choledochus is on the right side, and will be known by its dusky yellow colour. It will be easy to trace from this, the ductus ci/sticus; into which such a hole is tube made as will admit a blow-pipe : by blowing towards the liver., the gall bladder will be distended ; and by blowing in the other direction, we shall distend the hepatic ducts, and the ductus communis choledochus : by which the dissection will be facilitated. Perhaps a better mode of distending these parts will be, to make a very small puncture into the upper part of the gall bladder; from which the bladder and all the ducts may be at once injected or filled with air. The cellular membrane is now to be carefully taken off from the pancreas, so as to expose the duct, which is like a vein, but of a whiter colour; it runs into the duodenum, close to the ductus communis choledo- chus. A second duct of the pancreas will be generally found coming from that part of the gland which is called the head, and which adheres closely to the duo- denum. Before separating the liver from the diaphragm, the ligaments should be observed :—1st. the round ligament, or the remains of the umbilical vein; 2d. the broad, or suspensory ligament, formed by the peritoneum passing from the muscles of the abdomen, and from the dia- phragm; 3d. the coronary ligament, being the attachment of the liver to the diaphragm, through the medium of the peritoneum; and 4th and 3th, the two lateral liga- ments, which are only the right and left extremities of the coronary ligament. In separating the viscera from the abdomen, if we cut through the round and suspen- sory ligaments, the liver will be retained only by the coronary ligament; in cutting this last ligament, we must