130 then put our other hand into the opposite side of the chest, we shall feel that the approximation of the two pleurse forms a septum or mediastinum. From the inside of the sternum, the membrane may be traced to the part at which we commenced. It may now be recollected, that this mode of tracing the membrane is nearly similar to that by which the peritoneum was traced from one side of the abdomen to the other. Therefore, we have al- ready proved, that the lungs are as much external to the pleura, as the viscera of the abdomen are to the peri- toneum. The analogy also holds good in regard to the structure of the two membranes; for if a portion of the pleura be torn off, ils external surface will be found to be cellular, while its internal is serous. Though, in reality, there is nothing difficult to compre- hend in the form of the mediastinum, still students are often much puzzled by it, in consequence of the terms anterior and posterior mediastinum being occasionally used to denote the anterior and posterior cavities of the mediastinum. This confusion between the terms, has arisen in conse- quence of some anatomists having divided the septum into two portions,—calling that part which is anterior to the heart, the anterior or pectoral mediastinum, and the portion which is posterior to the heart, the posterior mediastinum. Though there is good authority for describing the sep- tum as divisible into an anterior and posterior portion, still I think that the anatomy of it, will he more intelligible to the young student, if only one mediastinum be described,, between the layers of which, there are certain spices, or, | if we will, cavities. With the present view of the parts before us, we may |. easily comprehend how these cavities are formed. If we I pass ll e hand into each side of the chest, we shall find that t our fingers will nearly meet, about three inches below the - sternum, — but not above that point, because the two pleurrn separate from each other immediately below the sternum (the space between them here, has been called the anterior cavity). If we push our fingers below the heart, they will again nearly meet; but between this point and the spine, we shall find that the pleurre do not come into close contact, so that there is a space between them (which is called the posterior cavity). But in the student’s anxiety to understand these two cavities, he is apt to omit the most important of all, viz. the middle space, ( or cavity, in which the heart, and its pericardium, are l situated.