219 which run from the body of one vertebra to the other ; these are the crucial ligaments. By dissecting away the muscles from the back part of a few of the vertebra, we shall see tendinous ligaments running between the tips of the spinous process ; these are principally found in the vertebras of the back and loins, and are called the funi- culi ligamentosi. Between the remaining parts of the spinous processes, an indistinct membranous ligament may be seen, which is sometimes called the membrana spinosa; and between the transverse processes, from the fifth to the tenth dorsal, we shall find ligaments, that are called LIGAMENTA PROCESSUUM TRA NSVERSO RUM ; blit both these, and the membrana spinosa, are very little more than condensed cellular membrane. All the ligaments which have already been described, may be found without cutting the vertebrae ; but before we can show the ligaments which are situated more deeply, we must take out two or three of the lower dorsal, or lumbar vertebrae, and cut down the spinal canal, so as to separate the bodies of the vertebrae from the processes. Upon the back part of the body, a fascia, or ligament, will be found, corresponding to that which was seen on the fore part; this is the ligamentum commune posti- cum, or fascia longitudinalis posterior. If we re- move the spinal marrow and its sheath from the part of the canal formed by the processes, and merely rub the parts with the handle of the knife, the ligaments which run from the root of one spinous process to the other, will be exposed; these ligaments have, in their fresh state, a yellowish appearance, whence the name of ligamenta subflava has been given to them, and, from their course, the words Crurum Processuum Spinosorum, are generally added. The ligaments which are common to almost all the ver- tebras, may now be enumerated. before the vertebra are cut. 1. Ligamenta Capsularia. 2- — ■1 Intervertebralia Cartilaginea. (Intervertebral substance.) 3. Crncialia. 4. Ligamentum Commune Anterius, or Fascia Lon- gitudinalis Anterior. 5. Funiculi Ligamentosi, or Ligamenta Apicium Pro- cessuum Spinosorum. 6. Membrana inter Spinalis. 7. Ligamenta Processuum Transversorum, U 2