207 T 2 neck, so as to expose the internal jugular veins, into eaeh of which, a pipe should be put. The carotid and vertebral arteries are to be tied ; so are the subclavian : or perhaps it will be better to put tight ligatures on the arms, just below the insertion of the pectoralis major. Previous to the injection of the veins, a quantity of warm water should be thrown into them, so that it may pass iuto the several cavities of the heart. The water is then to be pressed out along with the coagula which are generally found in the cavities of the heart.—It is prin- cipally upon this being carefully done, that a good injec- tion of the heart depends. When the parts are thoroughly heated, the red injection should be thrown into the ascending aorta. An assistant must now be ready to knead the injection through the valves pf the aorta ; (but, if possible, a probe should have been passed from the carotid, before it was tied, to break down these valves;) when the injection once passes the valves, it will quickly distend the left ventricle, which must be supported by the assistant,—the pericardium having been previously opened. By a little pressure, the wax will pass into the left auricle, and, from it, into the pulmonary veins. It will be well to make a small punc- ture, with a lancet, in the apex of the ventricle, to allow of the escape of any water or blood which may be still iu this side of the heart. The right side of the heart may be filled with blue or yellow injection from the pipes which have been put into the several veins. It will be necessary to make a punc- ture in the apex of the auricle, to permit the exit of a certain quantity of water which will be left in the heart, even though much care has been taken to squeeze it all out previous to the injection. Perhaps the vena azygos may be filled, with the other veins ; but if it be not, we must put a pipe into it, and in- ject it separately. The thoracic duct may also be injected. If sought for in the abdomen, it will he discovered at the root of the mesenteric vessels, or between the right crus of the dia- phragm and the aorta. It may be traced up under the diaphragm, along with the aorta, and upon its right side, close to the spine. As it generally lies collapsed and un- distinguishable, it may he raised by blowiug inlo some of the glands upon the root of the mesentery, or into those upon the course of the external iliac vessels, or even into those below Poupart’s ligament in the groin. It must be injected with a different colour from ihe veius, that it