21 artery on its iliac side, and if the obturator be given off by the epigastric, the probability is, that in its course to- wards the thyroid hole, it will pass over the neck of the sac. The spermatic cord is so far removed, that we have no fears for it, in operation, except in the superficial incisions. We shall now suppose that we are operating for femoral hernia : the skin is cut through, and probably some branches of the pudicas exterme are cut; we then come upon the fascia superficialis communis, but we shall be very much mistaken, if we expect to see this in any way resemble a distinct fascia. From the intimate manner in which the glands are united with the fascia, it will appear more like a solid mass covering the sac, than a fascia ; and to add to the difficulty, at every scratch of the knife, branches of the inguinales going to the glands may bleed. If the hernia be recent, no distinct fascia will be seen; but if it has existed for some time, the cellular membrane which has been pushed down before the sac, will be condensed into a fascia, or rather a bag. This has been called by Mr. Cooper, fascia propria—a term which is by some objected to, for no such fascia is seen in the dissection of the natural parts; nor has it ever the appearance which we generally suppose a fascia to have, for it not only covers the sac, but contains it, as in a bag; and in an opera- tion, it has so much the appearance of a sac, that we have cases given as examples, of one portion of peri- toneum within the other; for the surgeon has supposed that the true sac, which he finds on opening this bag, was a second sac. It is called by Scarpa, the proper cellular envelope of the herniary sac, and by Mr. Charles Bell, the outer or false sac. When the true sac is opened, it will be possible to bring the hernia into a straight line, and by thus doing away the acute angle, perhaps the difficulty of reducing the gut may be obviated ; but it will almost always be necessary to make use of the bistoury. If we were now to consider the question of the seat of stricture, as a mere dissector would, we should make it appear very complicated; but by taking it practically, and as it is found during opera- tion, it will’be made sufficiently simple. In the course of our dissection we saw two crescentic arches, but in a case of hernia they will be so pressed together as to appear only one. Whatever names we choose to give to these fasciiE, is of little consequence in practice, but the recollection that the part which causes the strangulation, is of a semicircular form, is of great