151 We should now raise the plexus choroides and velum. from the anterior part, and carry it back; but at first, we should not remove it farther than two inches. This will completely expose the two white bodies which arc called tiialami nervorum opticorum. Upon their an- terior part, we may see two little eminences, called the monticuli ; and in the angles of union between the thaia- mi and corpora striata, we shall see a streak of whitish matter, which has somewhat the form of a tape-worm, or piece of tape, whence it is called Taenia,—and, from its direction, semicircularis,—and,from its connection with the thalami, which are sometimes called gemini, it has the word gemiuum added,—tjenia semicircularis gehinum. On the anterior part of the thalami, we shall see the opening which has been already described as forming part of the foramen commune anterius. If we direct a probe slantingly forwards, it will pass towards the part called iter ad infundibulum ; if pushed on, it would passthrough the substance of the infundibulum, and enter the pituitary gland. If the probe be pulled out, and then passed downwards, and backwards, it will pass into the third ventricle. This opening has sometimes received the elegant name of Vulva ; while the depression which may be now seen at the other extremity of the thalami, has got the name of Anus. This latter opening is sometimes called foramen commune posterius ;—but it differs from the anterior opening, in this, that it is so covered by the velum interpositum, that there is no opening here, until the velum is torn up. We may now trace the plexus choroides a little more. We shall find that it dips down behind the anus; but we must be careful how we raise it at this part, for here it surrounds the Pineal gland,—therefore, the membrane should not he rudely pulled away, but should be dissected off with the forceps and scissars; by which we shall expose a little reddish grey body, rather larger than a pea, and attached to the posterior part of each thalamus, by a little process, or peduncle: this is the famous Pineal gland. When we take it between our fingers, we must not be surprised to find some gritty particles in it. We should now separate the thalami gently from each other, and we shall find that they are united by a grey mass, which is called the commissura mollis. The name implies, that this bond of union will be often dissolved before we reach this part of the dissection.—The chink, or sulcus, which is seen on separating the thalami, is the third ventricle. If we separate the thalami, to some distance