35 should be repeatedly syringed with warm water. The injection may be made to run more minutely into the vessels of the intestines by pressing gently upon the trunk of the vena portae. As the veuae cavae hepaticae may be filled by a suc- cessful injection, the vena cava should be tied just above the diaphragm. The vena cava itself should not be in- jected, for its branches can be easily traced without their being filled. When they are injected at the same time with the other vessels of the abdomen, they encumber the dis- sector very much ; but if we wish to fill them, we should put a pipe into the iliac or femoral vein. When all the vessels are injected, the small intestines should be removed, and the colon blown up according to the description already given in the first dissection of the abdomen. All those arteries which are seen on the part of the mesentery which has been left, and also on the right side and middle of the mesocolon, are branches of the superior mesenteric artery ; while those which run towards the sigmoid flexure aud rectum, are from the inferior mesenteric. The dissection is to be begun with the loose mesentery, by dissecting off the peritoneal <5oat and fat from the vessels. These arteries in the mesentery have no ap- propriated names, but compose one set of innumerable branches, forming, before they reach the small intestines, frequent anastamoses and arches, by which the capacity of the branches combined, must be wonderfully increased in proportion to that of the single trunk from which they arise. From the upper mesenteric artery, upon the right side, three branches are given off to the colon. The arteria ilio-colica ; whose ramifications connect the branches which go to the small intestines, with those which go to the colon. It runs down to the caput coli, and last turns of the ileon. Its branches upon the small intestine inosculate with those branches of the superior mesenteric which are distributed to the small intestines in general; and, upon the great intestine, it inosculates with the second colic branch of the superior mesenteric artery, viz. The colica dextra; which will be found running from the root of the superior mesenteric artery across toward* the right side of the colon, where it begins to rise over the kidney, inosculating freely with the last branch, and up? wards with The coeica media.—This branch goes directly upwards