The trunk will be found lying close by the edge of the biceps, and passing under the portion of its tendon which is inserted into the fascia of the fore arm. Before fol- lowing the trunk, we should make a dissection of the fascia of the fore arm : this may quickly be done, by making a cut through the skin, from the elbow to the wrist, and by then dissecting the skin off from all around the arm. We need not preserve the small branches which perforate the fascia to supply the skin ; but we must take care of branches which run around the elbow, and of any small branches which may be found near the wrist; for the ar- teries there, are very irregular. In following the trunk, and the commencement of the radial and ulnar arteries, we must be very careful; as there is always a quantity of fat and cellular membrane inter- posed between the tendons of the biceps, and the insertion of the brachialis internus,—in which space, the artery ge- nerally divides: to see it distinctly, we must cut through the tendinous membrane which passes from the biceps to the fascia of the fore arm. As the radial lies more superficial than the ulnar, we should first trace it to the wrist. This will be very easy; for by merely cutting through the fascia, we may follow the artery over the tendon of the pronator teres, towards the ra- dius, and then it runs down parallel with the hone, lying on the flexor pollicis longus, and between the supinator iongus and the flexor carpi radialis. We need not here enume- rate the several branches which are going to the muscle; for they are very irregular; but we should particularly mark the branch which turns hack, and round the tendon of the biceps, to pass on the elbow : this is the recur- rens radialis. The only other branch of importance, is that which is given off at the point; where we ge-t nerally feel the pulse; viz- the suPERnciALis toljk i 3 but this branch is very irregular in its size.—We should I not now trace the radial farther, but return to the .'I ulnar. The ulnar passes much deeper than the radial; conse-M quently, it is more difficult to trace its branches. It will ‘ be found running at once deep into the arm, to pass undei the pronator teres. While the artery is under this muscle.; ing; during some seasons I have observed it, in nearly ever||l third body. I think, however, it may be said to occur in a propor-i: tion, of about one to ten.