133 which surrounds the artery, vein, and nerve, will now be .seen, and when this is opened, it will be easy to pass a bluut needle under the vessels. The saphena nerve is so far removed from the artery, i that it can easily be avoided; if it be tied, the patient will, aas long as he lives, be a reproach to the surgeon, for he vill complain of a pain, so distinctly in the course of the aerve, that there never will be a doubt as to whom he i >wes it. The internal saphena vein is quite out of the ine of the incision that has been recommended; but as t is irregular in its course, its situation should be marked, previous to commencing the operation, by compressing it ligh up- (The anatomy of popliteal aneurism will be de« • icribeu when we come to the dissection of the ham.) We may now open the abdomen, and examine the rela- :ive position of the parts connected with the arteries ".vhich we have tied. The internal iliac vein and the ireler will be looked to with interest, in considering the iperation of tying the internal iliac artery. After having fully investigated the subject of the opera- ion for aneurism, in all its bearings, we should make a ■ uperficial dissection of the fascia of the thigh,—preserving he veins, nerves, and glands. The lymphatics, of course, t '.annot be seen. The first thing we should attend to, is the anatomy >f the glands. As the lymphatics pass from several ources into the glands, we may now understand that there nay be many different causes for bubo. If there be a deep • welling in the groin, it may be in consequence of some , rritation on the internal parts of the limb,—as after com- rnuud fracture, diseased joint or bone. If the swelling be nore superficial, it may arise from irritation of the super- ; iciai lymphatics in some part of their course,—as that pro- .1 luced by a blister on the knee, or by a sore on the toe. If • he tumour be high up in the groin, it will probably be rrom irritation on some part of the penis or scrotum. But i here is another cause of bubo, which, on account of the ! lifficully of tracing the lymphatics, is not generally known, > /iz, irritation about the anus,—as piles, &c. Though buboes have been mistaken for hernia, and, what >smore serious, hernia has been mistaken for bubo, I hope 11 is not'now necessary to say any thing on the manner of aiistinguishing the two diseases. When we recollect the origin of the small nerves which »*e now see on the thigh and hip, we cannot wonder, that Ppainful sensations in the thighs, should be occasionally N