81 when the cast is removed, the urethra and bladder shall preserve their natural shape. But to make a good pre- paration of this kind, we should not take a cast at the same time; because the injection is not only liable to discolour the internal coat of the bladder, but the process of injecting will probably hurt the appearance of the parts, for the beauty of such a preparation will depend very much on its being cleanly and carefully macerated. When the parts have been sufficiently macerated, some strong aluminous spirit is to be thrown into the cavernous and spongy bodies; the urethra aud bladder are also to be filled with the same fluid. The parts are then to be put, as nearly as possible in their natural relation to each other, into a glass jar full of spirits, and to remain in it until they are sufficiently hardened. The preparation is then to be taken out of the jar, and the external parts of the penis and bladder are to be more neatly dissected; the lateral part of the urethra and bladder is then to be opened, so as to give a distinct view of the course of the canal;— bristles should be put into the several ducts. This prepa- ration, though it may not give a very accurate idea of the size of the canal, will yet be very valuable, and should be put up neatly in ajar of spirits. I may here observe, that when we wish to preserve the bladder, &c. either in their natural or morbid state, that we should attend to the following general rules: 1st. pre- vious to putting the part into maceration, we should dissect off all the muscles, &c. which we do not intend to pre- serve ; 2d. free the cavernous and spongy bodies, of blood, by repeatedly injecting them with water; 3d. empty the vesiculae and the prostate by gently squeezing them ; 4th. before the part is put into the macerating pot, we should fill the bladder and the cavernous and spongy bodies with clean water; lastly, the preparation should be suspended near the lop of the jar, aud the water changed twice a day. A preparation of a diseased penis and bladder may be removed, without even opening the body ; for if we make a long cut in the perineum, we may dissect the penis from the rami and arch of the pubes; and then by passing a knife, directed by the finger, into the pelvis, we may carry it round the bladder, so as to separate it from its con- nections internally ; and then by cutting the body of the i penis across, all the parts may be easily pulled out. But if we are desirous of preserving the whole of the body of the penis, we ought to cut the attachment of the pre- ;puce to the corona glandis, and then by pulling the penis iirorn below, it will be easily separated from the loose kin.