264 The several cartilages may be exposed by merely re- moving the skin, &c. which covers them. The cartila- ginous lube should be followed down to the bone.—The squamous part of the temporal bone should theu be cut, down to the level of the pars petrosa ; and we should pro- ceed to lay open the different cavities of the internal ear. The bone immediately behind the squamous portion, and in a line with the posterior part of the tube, is so very thin, that the slightest blow with a small chisel will break it: if the fracture be made posterior to the line of the meatus cxternus, the mastoid cells will be opened. After having done.this, it is very easy to expose the whole cavity of the tympanum, by breaking up the thin bone, in the di- rection towards the foramen spinale of the sphenoid bone. The membrane of the tympanum, with the chain of bones, will now be seen, and also the communication of the tympanum with the mastoid cells ; and if a fine probe be ANTITRAGICUS. Or. The internal part of the cartilage that sup- ports the antitragus. In. The tip of the antitragus, as far as the inferior part of the an- tihelix, where there is a fissure in the cartilage. Transverstjs Auris. Or. The prominent part of the concha on the dorsum of the ear. In. Opposite to the outer side of the antihelix. These muscles are for the most part scarcely discernible : they are, no doubt, forgiving rigidity to the ear, the better to enable it to col- lect the sound. MUSCLES OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Attolens Auris.—A thin and almost tendinous sheet. Or. The tendon of the occipito-frontalis, where it covers the aponeurosis of the temporal muscle. In. The upper part of the ear, opposite to the antihelix. Anterior Auris.—A membranous muscle also. Or. Back part of the zygomatic process of the temporal bone. In. The back of the helix, near the concha. Retrahentes Auris.—Two delicate membranous muscles. Or. The mastoid process, above the insertion of the sterno cleido mas- toideus. IN. That part of the back of the ear which is opposite to the sep- tum that divides the scapha and concha. These muscles, in a state of nature, are designed to give tension to the ear; to make it more capable of receiving sounds, and especially to bring us acquainted with the direction of sounds ; but their use is, ip general, almost entirely lost.