170 Tensor, or Circumflexus Palati. Or. 1. The spinous pro- cess of the sphenoid bone, behind the foramen ovale ; 2. the Eusta- chian tube. It then runs down along the pterygoideus internus muscle, passes over the hook or internal plate of the pterygoid process, and spreads into a broad membrane. In. The v.lum pendulum palati. Some of its posterior fibre* join with the constrictor pharyngis superior, and palato-pharyngeus. Use. To stretch and draw down the velum palati. Levator PalXti. Or. The extremity of the pars petrosa of the temporal bone, near the Eustachian tube, and from the mem- branous part of the same tube. In. The velum pendulum palati, and the root of the uvula. It unites with its fellow. Use. To draw the velum upwards, so as to shut the posterior nares. Palato-Pharyngeus. Or. The middle of the velum pendulum palati, and from the tendinous expansion of the circumflexus palati. ■ The fibres are collected within the posterior arch behind the amyg- idala, and run backwards, to the top and lateral part of the pharynx, where the fibres are scattered, and mix with those of the stylo- pharyngeus. In. The edge of the upper and back part of the thyroid cartilage, ■ some of its fibres being lost between the membrane of the pharynx .and the two inferior constrictors. Use. Draws the uvula and velum downwards, and backwards ; .and, at the same time, pnlls the thyroid cartilage and,pharynx up- awards. In swallowing, it thrusts the food from the fauces into the i’barynx. N. B. A few of the fibres of this muscle have been called, Salpingo-Pharyngeus. And supposed to operate on the nouth of the Eustachian tube. Azygos UvuljE. Or. The extremity of the suture which joins r he palate bones. In. The tip of the uvula. Use. Raises the uvula, and shortens it. MUSCLES ON THE BACK PART OF THE PHARYNX. Constp.ictor Pharyngis Inferior. Or. 1. The side of the liyroid cartilage; 2. the cricoid cartilage. This muscle is the largest of the three constrictors. In. It joins with its fellow, on the back of the pharynx ; the su- perior fibres run upwards, and cover part of the middle constrictor^ v he inferior fibres run more transversely, and surround the oeso- phagus. Use. To compress the pharynx.