•299 Two muscles are inserted into the outer edge of the bicipital groove,—the pecloralis major and coruco bruchi- a/is; and these must pull the arm inwards and forwards. The two muscles which are inserted into the outer part of the bicipital groove, will pull the arm backwards; — viz. the latissimus dorti and teres major. TABLE OF THE ORIGINS AND INSERTIONS OF THE MUSCLES MOVING THE HUMERUS.* MUSCLES OF THE SHOULDER LYING ON THE SCAPULA Si! BSC A POLAR Is. Or. 1. All the base and hollow of the scapula internally. 2. Its superior and inferior cost;e. IN. The upper part of the internal or lesser protuberance on the head of the humerus. SUPRA Spinatus. Or. 1. From all that part of the base of the sca- pula which is above its spine. 2. From the spine and superior costa. 3. From the fascia of the scapula. In. The part of the larger protuberance on the head of the os hu- meri that is next the groove. Infra Spinatus. Or. 1. All that part of the base of the scapula which is between its spine and inferior angle. 2. The spine, as far as ■the cervix of the scapula. 3. The fascia of the scapula. In. The upper and middle part of the large protuberance on the head of the os humeri. Teres Minor. Or. From the inferior costa of the scapula, ex- tending from the neck to an inch and a half from the inferior angle. In. The back part of the large protuberance on the head of the •s humeri. Teres Major. Or. 1. The inferior angle. 2. Inferior costa of the scapula. , In. The ridge at the inner side of the groove for lodging the ten- don of the long head of the biceps (along with the tendon of the latissimus dorsi). DeLTOIDES. Or. 1. From the outer part of the clavicle. 2. From the acromion. 3. From the lower margin of almost the whole spine of the scapula opposite to the insertion of the cucullaris muscle. IN. A rough protuberance in the outer side of the os humeri, near its middle. Use. Its centre raises the humerus, the lateral portions sustain the shoulder joint. * The origins and insertions of the latissimus dorsi and pectoralis* are described at pages 183 and 214. *