116 The branches of the profunda, which are called perpo- rantes, and that may now he traced towards the inser- tions of the triceps, through which they pass to the muscles on the back of the thigh, are, in number, three, four, or five. But before we can see them distinctly, we must make a careful dissection of these muscles, and then many branches will be found going to inosculate with the gluteal and ischiatic arteries, and also with the two cir- cumflex. The dissection of the two ham-string muscles should now be continued down to the knee. Very few arteries will be seen in the superficial dissection ; for the branches are buried in the fat which lies between the muscles; but if, in looking for the trunk, we dissect deeply the edge of the biceps and semitendinosus, we shall be very apt to cut some of the lateral branches. This may be avoided, by commencing the dissection in the middle of the ham ; for after raising a very little cellular membrane, we shall ex- pose the great nerve; and Lhen, by drawing it aside, or cutting it through, we shall, at about half an inch deeper, find the vein,—and immediately under it, and close upon the bone, the continued trunk of the femoral artery, which is now called popliteal. If we now remove the fat, Sec. from the artery as far up as the point where it perforates the tri- ceps, and as far down as we can, without cutting through the gastrocnemius muscle, we shall discover a very re- gular series of branches:—from the upper part of the artery, there are several sent back to inosculate with the perforantes, the principal one of which is Ramus Profundus Popliteal;—from the low'er part, two or three arteries, which are called Surales, pass to supply the gastrocnemius anti soleus. The intermediate branches are called Arti- cular, as they encircle the knee joint: two of these pass towards the inner condyle, and are thence named Arlicu- laris Superior Interna and Articularis Inferior Interna. The two which arise on the outer edge of the artery, are called Articularis Superior Externa and Articularis Infe- rior Externa ; but there is still a fifth articular artery, which passes through the ligamentum posticum Wins- lowii, and supplies the inner part of the joint, and is called, from its being a single branch, Articularis Azyga, or Media. We must now separate the origin of the gastrocnemius from the condyles, and the origin of the soleus from the tibia, in order to show the popliteal dividing into the ANTERIOR and POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERIES. We shall see only a small part of the anterior tibial,