211 Another incision should now be made from the middlei of the lumbar vertebrae, to the back part of the insertion of the latissimus dorsi, in the arm. The fibres of this muscle will be easily exposed, by cutting in the direction of this last iucision. The first layer of muscles will now be fully exposed, being almost entirely formed by the trapezius and latissi- mus ; but on the upper and outer part of the trapezius, a small portion of the splenius will be seen, and, in the space between the trapezius and latissimus dorsi, part of the rhomboideus major will be exposed. Tbe trapezius should now be raised from its connections with the spine, and be carried towards the scapula. In doing this, we shall, on the upper part of the neck, ex- pose part of the complexus, more of the splenius, and the greater part of tbe levator scapulas; which last muscle passes from the transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, to the superior angle of the scapula. When the lower part of the trapezius is raised, the greater part of the RHOMBOIDEUS MAJOR aild RHOMBOIDEUS MINOR, both of which arise from the spine, and are attached to the sca- pula, will be exposed. The muscular part of the latissimus dorsi should now be cut through, at about six or eight inches from the spine. If we divide it nearer to the spine., we shall probably de- stroy the small muscle—the serratus posticus inferior, which is intimately connected with the tendon of the la- tissimus. Between the upper margin of this small muscle, and the lower margin of the rhomboideus major, part of the longissimusdorsi and sacro lumbalis will be seen. After dissecting the origins and insertions of the leva- tor scapula, and rhomboideus major and minor, these muscles may be cut through ; and then, by sawing through the clavicle, or by dislocating it from the sternum, the arm may be removed from the trunk. The arm should be wrapped up in a wet cloth, and laid in a cool place, so that it may be preserved, until the other muscles of the back arc dissected. We must now dissect those muscles which more properly belong to the spine and ribs. When the rhomboidei are thrown back towards the spine, the serratus posticus superior will be exposed; and on raising this, the whole of the splenius may be seen. This muscle is generally divided into two portions,—splenius capitis and splenius colli : that portion which rises from the cervical vertebra:, and is inserted into the head, being the splenius capitis,-^— while that which rises from the dorsal vertebrae, and is