159 large clusters of glandulae Pacchioni, which are occasion- ally lodged in corresponding foveas in the scull, to he fun- .gous tumours. The appearances which are said to denote a previous • slight degree of inflammation of the dura mater, are very questionable. That red appearance, which is generally described as the effect of inflammation, may be washed off: but after phrenitis, or violent injuries of the head, ihere will be no difficulty in determining whether there has been inflammation 5 because the vessels on the externa! * surface of the dura mater, will be as much blood-shot as the vessels of the conjunctiva are in ophthalmia, and there will be even layers of lymph occasionally found on its inner surface. In such cases, the other membranes will be also inflamed. It is not uncommon, to find deposits of bone in diffe- rent parts of the dura mater, hut particularly in the falx. In three cases, in which these deposits were found in con- ttact with the olfactory nerve, the patients had been, for a ^considerable time previous to death, very uncomfortable, (from the sensation of unpleasant odours. In cases of apoplexy, or very severe injuries of the lead, we shall occasionally find a quantity of blood under tthe dura mater. It is highly important to observe the manner in which the blood is spread over the surface of tthe brain ; as it will show the inutility of puncturing the liJura mater after trepan, with the intention of evacuating btilood which may he under it. We should particularly recollect that there is a natural idhesion between the dura mater and the other membranes in the line of the longitudinal sinus, and that it always has 1 pocky, granulated appearance, because this has, by : many, been ascribed to the effect of disease. Tunica Arachnoides.—This will he found thickened in nil cases where inflammation of the brain has existed for nome time, and then there will also generally be effusion >f serum under the membrane. It is, perhaps, improper : to attach much importance to this effusion, because it is ! ound in almost every case of protracted disease,—as in 'ever, or in cases where a patient has died in consequence d irritation of any viscus, and particularly after any operation on the bladder, or from retention of urine. When we find this effusion, we may predict that there will do water in the ventricles. Fia Mater.—The gorged state in which the vessels of hepia mater are frequently found, inconsequence of the msitiou of the head after death, is often called inflamma- F 9