154 ocui.i, (III.) will be easily discovered ; but the trochlea- itis (IV.) is difficult to find ; for it is not only very small, but it lies within the fold of the dura mater which passes from the tentorium to the sphenoid hone: when disco- vered, it should he cut,—not torn. The next nerve, the trigeminus, (V.) will be easily seen, as it is very large, and goes off in a lateral direction. The abducens (VI.) will he seen to run in the same direction as (III.) (It generally happens, at this stage of the dissecliou, that the brain has fallen so far back that it must be supported, or the weight of the anterior part may tear it through.) After observing the (VII.) which is divided into two parts, portio mollis and portio dura, if we look down towards the foramen magnum, we shall see the scattered fibres coming up to form the (VIII.) which is composed of three nerves, viz. the GLOSSO PHARYNGEAL, PAR VAGUM, Rlld SPINAL ACCESSORY. In cutting them across, we must endeavour to leave the last nerve entire, as it comes up from within the spinal canal, to unite with the other. The fibres forming the lingua- lis, (IX.) will be easily seen. The brain will no w be held in its place, only by the spinal marrow and the vertebral arteries; the latter are to be snipped across, and then the spinal marrow is to be cut through, as low down as we can carry the knife. We should now lay the brain on a wet board, and make our observations on its base. The first thing we shall notice, is, its division into lobes, which were not observ- able on the upper part: the anterior and middle lobes being separated from each other by a sulcus, called the fis- sura Silvii. As the posterior lobe has been already de- stroyed, we shall, on the back part, see only the cerebel- lum. This is divided into two portions, which are called its lobes, or hemispheres. We may now observe how much thicker the arachnoid membrane is here, than it was on the upper part. The arachnoid and pia mater should now be dissected off, and then we shall see the two crura of the cerebrum and the two of the cerebellum uniting, to form the pons Varolii, or tuber annulare, or (a heller name still) the nodus cerebri, which is the commencement of the me- dulla oblongata, or spinal marrow. Immediately be- low the middle of the nodus cerebri, two pyramidal ele- vations, called corpora pyramidalia,—and upon the la- teral parts, two oval eminences, which are called the corpora olivaria, will be seen. Between the corpora pyramidalia and the nodus, there is a little sulcus, which is called foramen ccecum. If we look on the brain, anterior ■ ■ a «nsns,-