251 I would advise the student who is anxious to know the subject minutely, to repeat the dissection frequently in the of the most powerful digestion, in the lower animals, wTere indepen- dent of the par vagum: which is proved by the very conclusive evidence, that in many of those animals, there is no par vagum. The use of the nerve, and the phenomena which take place upon cutting it, may, perhaps, be understood by the investigation of com- parative anatomy : for by it, we shall find, that the existence of this nerve depends upon the manner in which an animal respires, and upon the connection which there is between the stomach and the organs of respiration. And as, in complicated animals, the par vagum passes to the throat, the larynx, the heart, the lungs, and the stomach,—we may be permitted to draw the conclusion, that it is for connecting and combining, into one great system,these several organs,—each of which, has the power of performing, to a certain extent, its own peculiar function : but if it be cut through, then the cannection between all the organs, and also with the external muscular apparatus, upon which the perfection of the economy of each depends, must be destroyed. From what I have seen in experiments on the portio dura, and other nerves of the neck, I can readily believe in the effects of the galvanic Influence on the par vagum, when divided ; indeed it would be unwarrantable incredulity to doubt it, after the assertions that have been made. But still the question is open, whether the pheno« mena are to be explained in the manner proposed by Dr. Philip. If we pinch the divided portio dura, the muscles to which it goes will be slightly convulsed,—if we touch it with acid, they will be more so,—*but when we galvanize the nerve, the muscles will be thrown into full action :—thus, it would appear, that the energies of a nerve are excited in proportion to the degree of stimulus. From these experiments, it would be as just to call a pair of pincers, or an essential oil, or an acid, the nervous agent, as the galvanic pile. Before instituting the experiments with galvanism, the fact was assumed, that by dividing the par vagum in the neck, all connection between the brain and the stomach must be destroyed. This [ can- not agree to; for, by a careful dissection of the nerves, I find that, at every point of the abdomen and thorax, the par vagum and sympa- thetic have intimate connections with the spinal marrow,—and conse- quently, through it, with the brain. I trust, that in examining a point of physiology which must de- pend so much on the facts of anatomy, it will not be considered in- vidious in me to question how far the anatomy of the nerves has been attended to, in the experiments, and in the discussions which have taken place upon it. I think it will be admitted, that the greater number of the late ex- periments appear to have been founded on the views of the anatomy of the ganglionic system of nerves, which were given by Bichat.— Although I will, in common with every one, acknowledge Bichat t» have been a man of the most bri liant talents, yet I will venture to