196 because the small arteries, which ramify upon the larger trunks of arteries, (the vasa vasorum,) run chiefly in it. 'these arteries are not, in general, derived from the large vessels on which tiiey lie, but come from some of the smaller branches of arteries. They are, to the great arteries, what the coronary arteries are to the heart. They supply and nourish the coats of the arteries; while the column of blood in their cavities, seems to have no such effect. To prepare these subordinate vessels, they must be injected minutely (before the artery is removed from the body) with size, or fine varnish injection, of a light colour, or ot pure white. If, after this minute injection, a coarser, and dark-coloured injection, be thrown into the trunks, the light-coloured, and fine injection, will be pushed on- ward, while the coarse injection fills only the trunks; making thus a contrast between the large vessels and the ramifications of the vasa vasorum, upon its surface. The artery, when thus injected and prepared, may be dried and varnished, or preserved in spirits. The muscular coat.—Having dissected these outer layers, the muscular-coat appears- Its fibres run in circles round the artery;—no fibres run in the length of the ar- tery. The circular fibres of the muscular coat do not all pass round the artery. On attempting to trace any single fibre, it may be found to make a complete circle round the artery ; but, on further examination, the circle will be found to be made up of segments of fibres, irregularly combined, the extremities of which are intermixed, and seem lost among each other. When the arteries of a young body are examined, the muscularity of the vessel will be more observable in the arteries of the thigh. In an old body, the muscular coat may be divided into three or four laminae. Immediately under the muscular coat, there is a little | cellular membrane, which has been sometimes called the ) inner cellular coat,—but it is hardiy worthy of this term. The internal coat is most easily demonstrated by merely laying the artery open. It is very difficult, unless the ; artery be diseased, to separate this from the other coats.