55 These incisions will enable us to expose the principar muscles. The cut along the ramus of the pubes and ischium, will show the course of the erector penis; the cross cut. that of the transversalis; the incision along the Raphe will show the union ol the two ejaculators; and the circular cut will be in the line of the fibres of the sphincter ani. It is better to make these incisions on both sides; for I have always found that the student got a very im- perfect idea of the anatomy of the perineum, from the examination of one side only. The dissection is to be begun by cutting on the line of the ramus of the pubes and ischium, so as to expose the fibres of the erector, which will be found to form a ten- dinous expansion that spreads upon the crus of the penis. But we must be particularly careful in dissecting the origin of this muscle, for the- transversalis is connected with it. The same dissection should be made on the other side, and then there will be a distinct view of ihe crura of the penis, and the attachment of the erectors. The next step willbfe, to dissect, in the line of the cross cut, as far as to the union with that in the line of the Raphe,, with the intention of laying bare the fibres of the trans- versalis. But the student is very liable to be foiled in his first attempt to dissect this muscle, because its fibres are not only frequently very indistinct, but its place is often supplied by a set of fibres from the levator ani. Some- times, indeed, we may discover two transversales; while in other bodies there is no proper transversalis, but a set of fibres which, though they may have the same origin, take a direction obliquely upwards. This slip of fibres has been called the transversalis alter. The transversalis is con- sidered regular, when it is inserted with the other muscles into the condensed cellular membrane on the lower part of the bulb. The ejaculator seminis may now be shown by dissecting carefully from the cut in the Raphe, towards the erector pe- nis and crus of each side. After the fibres of this muscle are exposed, the loose skin should be taken off from the penis, so that a more distinct view of the parts may be given. We may now proceed with the dissection of the lower part, by cutting in the line of the incision which has been made round the verge of the anus, so as to expose the fibres of the sphincter. In doing this, the dissector will discover, that the most superficial set of fibres is attached to the skin in the line of the Raphe, hut that the greater mass of the muscle is inserted into that point at which the