12G two branches, which, however, soon again unite. While the nerve lies here, it gives several small twigs to the muscles and to the skin. The two great gluteal muscles should now be raised, by which we shall expose the nerve where it passes betwixt the tuberosity of the ischium aud great trochanter; the two hara-string muscles must then be dissected, to show the course of the nerve between them. About the middle of the thigh, the sciatic nerve will be found to divide into two great branches, the tieial and fibular. The truuk, however, will very often appear to go quite into the ham, without dividing; but still we shall find that it may be very easily split, for some way up, into two portions. The tibiae should be traced first. The first branch of importance, is that which has been already seen in the dis- section of the cutaneous nerves (Nervus Communicant .Tibialis). After having given off this branch, the trunk passes through the popliteal space, giving off small branches to the back of the joint, and to the muscles. The internal heads of the gastrocnemius and soleus, should now be divided, so that we may exhibit the nerve in its course under the fascia which covers the deep muscles. As it passes to the ankle, it gives off several branches,—the principal one of which, passes between the bones, to supply the muscles on the fore and upper part of the interosseous ligament. At the internal ankle, the trunk will be found lying close upon the posterior tibial artery ; and while bere, it gives off a cutaneous branch to the inside of the foot. The trunk of the nerve then divides into the two branches which are called Plantar: to trace these, we must cut through the muscles of the foot. The Internal Plantar, which is the largest, after giving off several branches to the muscles, is finally distributed to the great toe, second, third, and one side of the fourth toe. The External supplies its corresponding muscles,—forms a connection with the internal plantar, and then supplies the little toe, and one side of the fourth toe. The fibuear division of the great sciatic may now be traced. Before it passes round the head of the fibula, it gives off the cutaneous branch which has been described as connected with the communicans tibialis. After tracing the trunk over the fibula, it will be found lying very deep between the muscles, where it immediately divides into two nerves. The most superficial, should be traced first: it generally sends one branch into the muscles, and then, passing under the head of the peroneus longus, may be