337 It is necessary, before beginning, for the assistant to see that there are, within his reach, sharp-pointed scissars, knives, forceps, lancets, pokers (for tubes), needles, and waxed thread,so arranged, that they can be used instantly : for it will often happen, that it will be almost impossible for either the assistant or the operator to take his eye for a moment off the vessel, without losing it.—It is requisite, also, that the assistant be very dexterous ; as his office is often oue of greater difficulty, than that of the principal operator. Every thing being arranged, the foot or hand is to be placed in a tray, that the mercury which falls, may be caught. — The foot ought to be a little more elevated than the groin, to assist the flow of the mercury towards that part. With a sharp scalpel, a portion of the skin is to be cut off horizontally, so as to expose the loose cellu- lar texture; for iuthis texture, are the superficial lympha- tics generally situated. If we cannot find one near the toes (which is very often the case), we shall probably dis- cover one running across the saphena magna, on the instep. We must then take hold of it with the forceps, aud dissect it from the surrounding substance (to secure the keeping of it, we should put a ueedie with a fine waxed thread under it). Having still hold of the vessel with the forceps, we should snip it half across with fine scissars,—and into the cut made by the scissars, introduce the fine poker which is made for cleariug the pipes. We should nosv take, from the assistant’s hand, the tube containing the mercury, with the stop-cock already turned, and let the stream of mercury play ou the side of the poker; which will gene- rally so direct the stream, that it will enter the vessel. When once we have succeeded in getting a few drops of mercury into the lymphatic, it will be easy to get the pipe into the open mouth of the vessel, and then the poker may be withdrawn. There is an apparent clumsiness in this method of filling the vessels : but in this manner, the smallest vessels may be injected,—when it will be found quite impossible to inject them in the old way, of puncturing the lymphatic with a lancet, and introducing the point of the tube into it. The scissars make a better kind of cut than the lancet; though there is a great deal of nicety required in using them, as they are liable to cut the vessel completely through. The poker is of very great service, as by it, it is always pos- sible to know, whether it is a lymphatic or a small nerve that we have got; if it be a lymphatic, the poker will pass Q g