258 auditorium internum,—where it almost immediately di- vides into the two divisions, portjo mollis and portio dura. The portio mollis is distributed entirely upon the organ of the ear. As the portio dura passes through the very dense part of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, it is exceedingly difficult to follow ; hut, with some care, it may be done,— and then we shall find the union between it and the Vidian, and also with that which is called the corda tympani.* The * In the investigation of the minute anatomy of the portio dura, or, as it is called by Mr. Bell, the respiratory nerve of the face, we have been induced to consider the Vidian as that branch of the portio dura, which passes to the respiratory muscles in the back part of the palate, and to the membrane of the nose; and the corda tym- pani, as the twig which supplies the levator and tensor palati muscles :—I think we may now be permitted to say, that these' two nerves have hitherto been traced back from the Vth, only in conse- quence of their forming a union with the deep branches of the VIIth, similar to that which is formed by the superficial branches of the same nerves on the face. The dissection of the nerves in the horse, would lead us to believe, that branches from the sympathetic pass into the ear, along the Vidian ; and that branches from the Vlh, enter along with the corda tympani. The portio dura will be found to be one of the most interesting nthe nervous system ; for, by comparative anatomy, we are able to prove, that it exists, only where there is a particular respiratory apparatus; and, by experiments, it has been most distinctly shown, that when this nerve is cut, the muscles to which it goes, are para- lyzed, as muscles of respiration. If the late discoveries by Mr. Bell, had done nothing more, than to show the use of this nerve,—they would still have constituted the greatest advance which physiology has made in the present day. The very curious experiments which were instituted by him to investigate the use of this nerve, will be found in the Philosophical Transactions. The comparative anatomy of the portio dura is very' interesting ; but I cannot enter into it. However, I shall introduce the following ob- servations on its distribution in the elephant:— During the last winter, when engaged in assisting Mr. Bell in the investigation of the nervous system, I often visited the menagerie in Exeter ’Change, to study the motions and uses of the proboscis of the elephant; and this I had a good opportunity of doing, for the small elephant was so very gentle, that he permitted me to handle his trunk freely. From the great power which the elephant has over his trunk, as a machine, I was satisfied that there must be large nerves running to it, similar to those which supply the fingers in man; but as the j proboscis forms an important part in the respiratory system of this t animal, I thought that in the dissection of it, there would be the most distinct proof of the accuracy, or fallacy, of Mr. Bell s opinions on the