100 Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti Pedis. Or. 1. The os cu- boides, near the furrow for the tendon of the peroneus longus. 2. The outside of the metatarsal bone that sustains this toe. In. The first bone of this toe. Use. To bend the toe. N. B. There is no proper Adductor Minimi Digiti, but we may class one of the Internal Interossei as an ADDUCTOR. Flexor Brevis Digitorum Pedis, Perforatus. Or. The inferior and back part of a protuberance of the os calcis (between the abductor of the great and little toes). It sends ofT four tendons, which split, for the transmission of the tendons of the flexor longus. In. The second phalanx of the four lesser toes. (The tendon of the little toe is often wanting.) Use. To bend the second joint of the toes. Flexor Digitorum Accessorius, or Massa Carnea Ja- cobi Sylvii. Or. The sinuosity at the inside of the os calcis, the fore part of the bone. In. The tendon of the flexor longus, just at its division into four tendons. Use. To assist the flexor longus, and to change the direction of its operation. Lumbricales Pedis. Are four in number. Each has its origin thus: Or. The tendon of the flexor profundus, just before its di- vision, and near the insertion of the massa carnea. In. The inside of the first joint of the toe. It is lost in the ten- dinous expansion that is sent from the extensor tendon to cover the upper part of the toe. Use. Flexors. Transversalis Pedis. Or. The extremity of the metatarsal bone of the great toe ; the internal os sesamoideurn of the first join* (adh?res to the adductor polliois). In. The anterior extremity of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, and ligament of the next toe. Use. To contract the foot, by bringing the great toe and. the two outermost toes nearer each other, and to support the lateral arch of the foot. Interossei Pedis Interni. The first, which is called Adductor Medii Digiti Pedis, arises from the inside of the root of the metatarsal bone of the middle toe, and is inserted into the inside of the root of the first joint of the middle toe ; the two others, which are called Adductor Tertii Digiti Pedis and Adductor Minimi Digiti, rise in th© same manner. MUSCLES SITUATED ON THE FORE PART OF THE FOOT. Extensor Brevis Digitorum Pf.dis. Or. The fore and up- per part of the os calcis; it divides into four portions, which send tendons that pass over the upper part of the foot, under the tendons of the former.