165 examine the body of this woman. The man was after- wards tried at the Old Bailey, for murder, and Mr. Bell's deposition was nearly to this effect. In the abdomen and thorax, nothing appeared remarkable, further than that the stomach contained a quantity of gin; and that there was a blush of redness on the lower orifice of the stomach and duodenum. On the head, there were several bruises; but the bone was not at all hurt, and no extravasation appeared under the bone. On exposing the membranes of the brain, the vessels of the pia mater were empty of blood, as if from pressure. There was a serous effusion under the tunica arachnoidea, and in the cavities of the brain, similar to what has been found in those who have died from intoxication. Ob the surface of the brain, there were what appeared to be spots of extravasated blood ; but upon tracing them towards the base, they proved to be streams of blood which had flowed from a vessel rup- tured in the base of the brain. The base of the brain was covered with coagulated blood, in which also, all the roots of the nerves were involved. On dissecting the cavities of the brain, the blood was found to have pene- trated into the third ventricle, by perforating its floor. Upon taking out the brain, and tracing the vessels in the base, the anterior artery of the cerebrum going off from the internal carotids of the left side, was found torn half way across: from this source came the extravasated blood. “ The cause of this woman’s death, was the bursting of the blood from the ruptured vessel, and the pressure on the brain, or, more correctly speaking, on the vessels of the brain. As to the cause of the rupture, Mr. Bell’s opinion coincided with the best authorities in pathology, that there is a stale of the vessels, in which an external injury or shock is more apt to produce rupture,—and drunkenness may be supposed to be the artificial state of excitement, which most resembles this state of the vessels. Being asked whether the blows were the cause of the rupture? he said he conceived it very likely that a shock would rupture the vessel: and being then asked, whether he conceived that this woman was more likely to have a vessel ruptured, from having been intoxicated ? he wa* of opinion, that intoxication, and the struggle, were likely to produce such a degree of activity of the circu- lation in the head, that a less violent blow might produce rupture, than what, in other circumstances, would have proved fatal.” The man was acquitted.