I shall, suppose that we are to dissect those of the neck, first. If we cut through the skin, about opposite to the .middle of the slerno cleido mastoideus, we shajl.find some bcauches, which, if patiently followed,wilI lead to all the others. The nerves on the side,of the neck, are so nu- merous, that it is impossible, in a work of thiskind, to par- ticularize them all; but there is one, more distinct than the others, which passes from the third cervical, ^Jong the steruo cleido mastoideus muscle, to join the branches of the portio dura. This, branch, is sometimes called, nervus communicans, or superjicialis colli. When the skin qver the parotid is raised, some.branches, of the fqrtio dura, pr respiratory nerve he face,,will be seen. These, may be traced into the substance .of the parotid gland,. by digging with tbescissars; tl>is is. to be done,, by,pt}ltiDg(,in the blades, closed, and then opening them> by, wl\ich the portions of the gland vyill be lorn,, rather than cut. In following the branches of. the portio dura, uppn .the face, we should not remove more of the sk.in than. the cutis vera,—for many of the principal branches ufje immediately under it;—these will be found, in thc;ir course from the interior of the parotid f° the, ddfe.rent parts of the face, to be united together by cpllular mem- brane, so as to have some resemblance to the webbed foot of an aquatic bird, whence the name of pea anserinusuhas been given to the plexus which is formed by them. The three branches, viz. the.suj*ju orbital, supe;rjpr MAXILLARY, and INFERIOR MAXILLARY, of tile. V,th,* Will he easily discovered by recollecting the three foramina through which they pass to the face, viz. the Superior Or- bital, Infra Orbital, and Mental. After the trunks are ex- posed, there will be no difficulty in tracing their branches to their terminations,—and also to show the intimate con- nection which each of them has with the branches of the portio dura. The dissection will be most easily made, by tearing the cellular membrane from between the nerves, .will be found in the Edition of the Plates of the Nerves, pybUshfd in 1816.—I shall only hint at certain experiments, which are defstiUd J>y Mr. Bell, in a paper in the Transactions of the Royal Society for the present year. The new names which have been given to Sf)ipe of the nerves, will be understood, by referring to.the Expjan^tipn of .the Plates. -* V See the Votes upon the deep dissection of these nerves. Y