3 B 2 mistaken for the tendon, but if it is not at once removed with the skin, it will be difficult afterwards to make the muscle clean by dissection with the forceps. The upper part of the muscle is now to be exposed. It is difficult to do this part of the dissection neatly; we should again commence at the cross cut, and carry the knife in a direction parallel with that incision. The part of the muscle nearest to the ensiform cartilage must be dis- sected with great care, because it is very thin, and is liable to be raised, so as to expose the origin of the rectus, which confuses the young dissector exceedingly. The whole of the external oblique will now be seen; but to make its serrated origins appear more distinct, a small part of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi should be dis- sected. The method which I have now proposed, is the easiest for the young dissector; but the student who is accustomed to dissection need not make the cross incision from the umbilicus to the semicircular cut, but may com- mence at the sternum, and carry the flap down towards the ilium. I shall give the description of the origin and insertion of the abdominal muscles fuller than those of any of the other muscles, because I frequently see the young student ex- perience considerable difficulty in showing them. The obliquus descendens, or exlernus, may be seen to arise, by seven or eight distinct portions, from the seven or eight inferior ribs. The four or five upper portions mix their digitations with corresponding slips of the serralus magnus. and the two or three lower with the latissimus dorsi; some- times a slip unites with the pectoralis major. The muscu- lar fibres proceed obliquely downwards and forwards, and, at the semilunar white line, terminate abruptly in a thin tendon, which is united with the muscle of the other side, at the linea alba. The tendon is so thin at the upper part, that the muscular fibres of the rectus may be seen shining through it;—this is the part already described as very liable to be raised by the young dissector. While the tendinous expansions of the muscles of each side are united in the middle of the abdomen, so as to form the superficial part of the linea alba, the more oblique fibres are inserted into the two anterior thirds of the outer crista, and to the anterior superior spinous process of the os ilii, to the os pubis, and to the whole length of Poupart’s ligament. The spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament of the uterus in the female, may now be seen passing between the tendinous fibres of the muscle. This opening is called the external abdominal ring. The dissector should not now be particu-