202 people, that it cannot be considered of any importance. Ossification of the substance of the heart will be more fre- quenlly found, than ossification of the pericardium. The heart is sometimes monstrously enlarged ; but we ought to make a distinction between the cases of enlarge- ment. In a dropsical body, or that of a person who has evidently laboured long under the effects of what is called a broken-down constitution, we shall fiud a large flabby heart, the walls of which are so soft, that, in examination, the finger will pass through them. If, in such cases, we examine the valves, we shall probably find them in a na- tural state; but if the heart is large, and if, at the same time, there be marks of long-continued irritation upon its surface, we shall probably find the valves of the aorta so diseased, as to have caused an actual obstruction to the exit of the blood. In such a case, the state of the heart is very analogous to that of a bladder when there has been a stricture in the urethra. The large flabby heart has been sometimes called Aneu- rism,—but this is a mistake; the true aneurism is very sel- dom found. In such a case, the heart is not generally en- larged ; but, according to the best authorities, there is a projecting tumour from the side of one of the ventricles. But in the only distinct case of aneurism of the heart, which I have examined, there was a cyst formed in the wall of the ventricle, which was not observable until the heart was opened; In this case, there was an opening in the cyst, which admitted a probe; and by this, the blood had escaped into the pericardium. Rupture of the heart is, certainly, a very rare occur- rence , but, during the course of the last ten months, I have met with three examples of it. One, of the right auricle, which was in the heart of a young woman, and, from the history given by her friends, appeared to have been produced by a sudden fright. The other two examples were in the ventricles, and in old people, who, from the f state of their bodies (which were brought into the dissect- ing-room), appeared to have been in full health previous to the moment of their death. In each of the three cases, the pericardium was stuffed with blood. In examining the interior of the heart, we should proceed in the same manner as if we were dissecting it to show the natural anatomy. In the right auricle, we may perhaps find the foramen ovale open; but this is so common, that we cannot attach much importance to it. I have found, in the heart of a strong drayman, who dropped down dead } in the streets, in consequence of rupture ot the aorta, an.j