5 6 two trnnsversales and ejaculators unite; indeed, this point is often called the “common centre of union”. When the dissection of the sphincter is continued up for about an inch upon the rectum, some of the fibres of the levator ani will be seen; but, to expose the whole of this muscle, it will be necessary to remove a large quantity of fat and cellular membrane from the side of the rectum. This may be done very boldly, if we keep below the level of the transversalis, lor we may, without fear, set our knife on the edge of the tuber ischii, and carry it full | of an inch inwards and downwards, without the risk of cutting any fibres, except some of the gluteus maximus. The object of this first dissection being only to acquire a general knowledge of the relative situation of the prin- cipal parts, we ought not at present to attend to the vessels, but proceed to remove the superficial muscles. It will not be necessary to remove the erectors, for the crura penis are sufficiently distinct while they are at- tached to them; but the fibres of the ejaculator and of the transversalis, are to be carefully raised, so as to ex- pose the spongy body and its bulb. After removing the fibres of the ejaculator, which arise from between the erector and bulb, the fascia, or ligament, which is called triangular, will be seen; or by pushing in the finger, the ligament will be felt. After studying the appearance of the parts now pre- sented, a section of the pelvis should be made, so as ta show the penis, bladder, &c. in their mutual relation to each other. The penis and bladder should be left attached to the right limb, that there may be a view of that side which is cut in the operation of lithotomy. The first step, in making the section, is to cut the left crus of the corpus cavernosum from the ramus of the pubes aud ischium, and then through the skin of the pubes and muscles of the abdomen; taking care to avoid the spermatic cord and testicle. The body is then to be untied and laid upon its back, the staff is to be taken out of the bladder, and the hair from the rectum. The hand is to be introduced into the pelvis (it is presumed that the muscles of the ab- domen are already dissected, and all the viscera, except the rectum and bladder, removed), and the rectum and bladder are to be pulled over towards the right side taking care that the peritoneum be not torn from them, nor the ureter injured. The division of the bones is now to be made, by cutting