1 9 the abdominal muscles may be made tense: this is most conveniently done by placing a block of wood under the loins. To put the fascia of the thigh upon the stretch, one leg ought to hang over the side of the table. The dissection of the upper part of the external oblique is to be made according to the general rule of removing all the cellular membrttne from the muscular fibre ; hut this plan must not be followed lower down than to a line drawn trom the one anterior superior spinous process of the ilium to the other; here, the skin only should be raised ; it may be carried down to three fingers’ breadth below the line of Poupart’s ligament.* By this method we shall leave upon the groin a quantity of condensed cellular membrane, be- tween the layers of which is the arteria epigastrica super- ficialis; this membrane may be traced from that which covers the pectoralis muscle and the upper part of the mus- cles of the abdomen ; it has generally received the name of fascia superficialis communis, because it is of equal impor- tance to the inguinal and femoral hernia. This fascia t is now to be dissected from the tendon of the external oblique. It has a very slight attachment to the expanded tendon, and the union between it and the spermatic cord is so slight, that the handle of the knife can he pushed be- tween them as far down as to the bottom of the scrotum. The attachment between the iliac ^ portion of Poupart’s ligament and this fascia is very strong ; but the connection between the pubic portion of the ligament and the fascia is so slight, that the handle of the knife is sufficient to de- stroy it. We can separate the fascia with great ease for about an inch below the edge of this part of the ligament, but we cannot lift it farther without using the knife; for the fascia becomes intimately united to the inguinal glands and to the fascia lata. Although we have raised this fascia, the accurately defined pillars of the abdominal ring, which * Tendon of the external oblique ; Fallopian or Ponpart’s ligament; crural arch ; ligament of the thigh ; femoral ligament. p Fascia superficialis of Mr. Cooper ; described by Camper and many others as only a membranous layer ; by Scarpa, as a prolon- gation of the fascia lata. In the scrotum of the feetus it forms the external lamina of the peritoneum of Langenbeck. f The terms iliac and pubic are better than external and internal. The length of the Poupart ligament may be divided into three por- tions : two of the thirds are called iliac, the other pubic, being that which is nearest to the pubes.