II 270 When we take the lens between our fingers, we shall find, that it is much denser in its centre, than in its circum- ference;—if we boil it, or put it into acid,we shall see this, still more distinctly. When it is boiled, it will have a laminated form,—and when pressed upon, in the centre, it will generally break into three portions. The vitreous humour will be found to be a viscid watery humour, contained in a transparent cellular membrane, which gives it the appearance oi solid jelly. If we put this humour on a piece of card, and then make two or three holes in the bottom of the card, and, through them, puncture the membrane, the water will escape: then, with a little management, we may blow into the capsule, so as to distend and dry it. The parts already described, are the principal points of the anatomy to be attended to; but if we cau procure a very fresh human eye,—by making a simple section of it, at half an inch posterior to the cornea, we may discover, near the optic nerve, on the temporal side, the spot described by Sommering,—it has the ap- pearance of a hole, with a yellow border surrounding it. But I believe this should rather be considered as a part of the retina, upon which the nervous matter is deficient, than a foramen. If we take the posterior half of the sclerotic, and look upon its inner surface, we shall see the entry of the optic nerve: if we rub the nervous matter off, we shall see a black hole, this is called the porus opticus,—however, it is only the-part at which the arteria centralis retins enters. By squeezing the nerve from behind, we shall see the pulpy matter oozing at many points,—proving, that the nervous matter comes through several foramina, which form what is called the cribriform part of the sclerotic, Lamina Cribrose. In the foetal eye, there are some peculiarities, which may he shown by injecting a foetal calf; the arteria centralis retinae will be seen passing through the centre of the nerve, and through the vitreous humour, to the back part of the capsule of the lens,—upon which, the vessels run in the form of a spider’s web, whence the capsule is sometimes called Tunica Aranca. When the capsule is injected, the vessels of the iris will also be filled. Four distinct arteries pass to the iris; from the branches of which, vessels may be seen shooting across the pupil, in that membrane which is most perfect in the foetus of seven months,and which is called membrana fupillaris. i «( o t