180 Constrictor Piiarynois Medics. Or. The appendix and cornu of the os hyoides, and the ligament which connects the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage ; the fibres of the superior part run upwards, and cover a considerable part of the superior constrictor. In. The middle of the cuneiform process of the occiput; and it is joined to ils fellow at the back of the pharynx. Use. To compress the pharynx, and draw it upwards. Constrictor Pharyngis Superior. Op.. 1. The cuneiform process of the occiput, near the condyloid foramina; 2. the ptery- goid process of the sphenoid bone ; 3. alveolar process of the upper jaw; 4. the lower jaw. In. A white line, in the middle of the pharynx, where it joins with its fellow, and is covered by the constrictor medius. Use. To compress the upper part of the pharynx, and draw it upwards. TABLE OF THE MUSCLES WHICH ARE FOUND PASSING BETWEEN THE CARTILAGES OF THE LARYNX. Crico-ArytjENOIDEUS Posticus. Or. Fleshy, from the back part of the cricoid cartilage. In. The posterior part of the base of the arytenoid cartilage. Use. To open the rima glottidis a little, and, by pulling back the arytenoid cartilage, to stretch the ligament, so as to make it tense. Crico-Ap.ytsnoideus Lateralis. Or. From the cricoid car- i tilage, laterally, where it is covered by part of the thyroid. In. The side of the base of the arytenoid cartilage, near the former. Use. To open the rima glottidis, by pulling the ligaments from each other. Arym:noideus Transversus. Passes from the side of ona arytenoid cartilage, (its origin extending from near its articulation with the cricoid, to near its tip,) towards the other arytenoid Use. To shut the rima glottidis, by bringing these two cartilages with their ligaments, nearer to one another. ArytjENOIDEUS Obliquus. Or. The base of one arytmnoid car- tilage ;—crosses its fellow. In. Near the tip of the other arytenoid CRrtilage. Use. When both act, they pull the arytenoid cartilages towards each other. Very often, one of these is wanting. cartilage