289 those parts of the gland which are situated so deep as the space between the occiput and atlas ? These con- siderations induce me to believe, that we cannot extir- pate the parotid gland. It is frequently necessary to cut off a portion of the parotid, when a scirrhous tumour is imbedded in it: iu these operations, the blood issues as from a sponge, so that it is very difficult to find all the vessels; but in the greater number of cases, the graduated compress will restrain the bleeding from the smaller arteries. If we must tie the external carotid, previous to such an operation, we may proceed thus: — If we cut through the skin, from the lobe of the ear, towards the cornu of the os hyoides, and then dissect through the platysma myoides, we shall come upon the digastric; and if we then dissect along the upper edge of this muscle, we shall expose the stylo hyoideus, — by forcing this last muscle downwards, we shall find the continued trunk of the external carotid. In extirpating tumours from this part, we must cut across many branches of the portio dura, * which will cause partial paralysis of the face. * Since lhe use of the portio dura has been illustrated by the facts of comparative anatomy, and by various experiments insti- tuted by Mr. Bell, we have been able to explain many symptoms of disease, which have hitherto puzzled surgeons. That I may direct the student’s attention more particularly to this subject, I shall mention one or two cases, which are illustrative of the consequence of an injury to this nerve.—Jn a case of cynanche parotidea, where suppuration took place, every muscle to which the portio dura went, was paralyzed in the act of respiration, or ex- pression ; but the same muscles were still efficient in the act of mastication : thus, when the patient attempted to whistle, or when he was made to sneeze, the muscles of only one side acted, but when he chewed his food, the muscles of both sides were in full ac- tion. This paralysis continued for a considerable time after the sinuses were healed ; I then lost sight of the patient. A slight degree of paralysis of one side of the face, is often seen in young people.—Such cases we have generally been able to trace to an inflamed gland, below the ear. I was lately consulted in a very interesting case, nearly of a similar nature. A young lady, had, for several years, a distinct twist of one side of her mouth, particularly when she smiled ; but of late, she half had an affection of her eye- lid. As she was under the care of a gentleman who was acquainted with the experiments whioh we had been making in Windmill-street, the cause of the twist of the mouth, was, by him, correctly referred to a severe attack of inflammation, which the lady had had, some yean