216 Trachelo-mastoideus. Or. The transverse processes of the three uppermost vertebrae of the back, and from the five lowermost of the neck, by thin tendons. In. The posterior part of the mastoid process. Use. To assist the complexus; but it pulls the head more to the side. Com plexus. Or. 1. The transverse processes of the seven supe- rior vertebra: of the back, and four inferior of the neck ; 2. by a fleshy slip from the spinous process of the first vertebra of the back : from these different origins, it runs upwards, and is every where in- termixed with tendinous fibres. In. The protuberance of the os occipitis, and transverse line. Use. To draw the head backwavds,' and to one side, when acting as an individual muscle; and, wheri both act, to draw the head di- rectly backwards. N. B.—The long portion of this muscle that is situated next the spinous processes, lies more loose, and has a roundish tendon in the middle of it; for which reason Albinus calls it biventer cervicis,—but if this portion should be called biventer, the term “ complexus ” is quite misapplied to the other portion. Semi-spin alis Colli. Or. The transverse processes of the six uppermost vertebrae of the back : it ascends obliquely under the complexus. In. The spinous processes of all the vertebrae of the neck, except the first and last. Use. To move the neck backwards. Rectus Capitis Posticus Major. Or. The spinous process of the second vertebra of the neck. In. The os occipitis, near the rectus capitis lateralis, and the insertion of the obliquus capitis superior. Use. To pull the head backwards, and to assist a little in its ro- tation. Rectus Capitis Posticus Minor. Or. The knob in the back part of the first vertebra of the neck. In. The os occipitis, near its foramen magnum. Use. To assist the rectus major in moving the head backwards. Obliquus Capitis Superior. Or. The transverse process of the first vertebra of the neck. In. The os occipitis, near the mastoid process of the temporal bone, and under the insertion of the complexus muscle. Use. To draw the head backwards. Obliquus Capitis Inferior. Or. The spinous process of tire second vertebra of the neck. In. The transverse process of the first vertebra of the neck. Use. To turn the head, by moving the atlas on the dentatus. SEMt-SPINALls DoRSI. OR. The transverse processes of the se- venth, eighth, ninth, and tenth vertebrae of the baok.