244 ting1 A little nerve, which runs backwards from the lower p&rt of the gustatory, just at the point where it separates from the inferior maxillary. This small twig will after- Wards be found to pass through a little hole by the side of the glenoid cavity, and then to cross the membrana tym- pani (whence its name of corda lympani); it joins the por- tio dura, but perhaps it will he more proper to describe it as a branch coming from the portio dura, to unite with the V‘h.* The jaw being now entirely removed, we shall have a beautiful exhibition of the nerves of the tongue; for by merely pulling it out, we may trace the gustatory to the tip,—the lingual to the muscles,—and the glosso pharyn- geal to the tongue and pharynx. We may now dissect away the parotid, and also the sty- loid muscles, and as many of the branches of the carotid as we can, without injuring the trunk of the portio dura: this* will expose what appears at first a very intricate plexus of nerves, but if we put probes under all those which have been already described, we shall find the in- tricacy to be very much unravelled. If we look towards the longue, we shall see the lingual, gustatory, and glo^o pharyngeal; and towards the back of the ear, the portio dura and spinal accessory ; and downwards, the par vagunc and sympathetic. These nerves now enu- merated, are the only ones to he found in the neck, ex- cept those which come direct from the spinal marrow, viz. the cervical nerves. We should now trace the par vagum. It will be found to be swollen into a sort of ganglion, where it emerges from the scull, and to be intimately connected with all the other nerves under the angle of the jaw. The first distinct branches which will be found rising from it, are two small nerves, which go to the pharynx;—at about an inch farther down, a large branch will be seen going off from it, obliquely downwards, and across the neck, to past into the larynx, between the thyroid and cricoid carti- lages,—this branch is called the superior laryngeal. The trunk of the nerve may then be traced down by the outside of the carotid, giving off no branches which have names, until it passes into the thorax. But as yet, we should not follow the nerve farther than the first rib : how- ever, by looking between the oesophagus and larynx, we * See Note upon this, in the deep dissection.