214 verse edge of the occiput, which extends from the protuberance to- wards the mastoid process of the temporal bone; 3. from the ligamen- tum nucha; : below this, the muscle is connected with its fellow ; 4. from the spinous processes of the two inferior vertebrae of the neck, and from the spinous processes of all the vertebrae of the back. In. 1. The outer half of the clavicle ; 2. the acromion ; 3. the spine of the scapula. Use. Moves the scapula according to the three different directions of its fibres; for the upper descending fibres may draw it obliquely upwards, themiddle, being transverse fibres, directly backwards, and the inferior ascending fibres obliquely downwards and backwards. Latissimus Dorsi. Or. 1. The posterior part of the spine of the os ilium ; 2. all the spinous processes of the os sacrum and ver- tebra; of the loins ; 3. the seven inferior spines of the vertebra; of the back; 4. the extremities of the three or four inferior ribs. The in- ferior fibres ascend obliquely, and the superior run transversely over the inferior angle of the scapula, towards the axilla, where they are all collected. In. By a strong thin tendon into the inner edge of the groove for lodging the tendon of the long head of the biceps: sometimes into the tendon of the triceps. Use. To pull the arm backwards and downwards, and to roll the os humeri. Serratus Posticus Inferior.—(Lying under the latissimus dorsi.)—Or. In common with that of the latissimus dorsi, from the spinous processes of the two inferior vertebrae of the back, and from the three superior of the loins. In. The lower edges of the four inferior ribs, by distinct fleshy slips. Use. To depress the ribs. Rhomboideus. This muscle is divided into two portions, rhom- boideus major and minor. Rhomboideus Major. Or. The spinous processes of the five superior vertebrae of the back. In. The basis of the scapula, below its spine. Use. To draw the scapula obliquely upwards, and backwards. Rhomboideus Minor. Or. The spinous processes of tbethrei inferior vertebrae of the neck, and from the ligamentum nucha. In. The base of the scapulae, opposite to its spine. Use. To assist the former. Levator Scapula. Or. The transverse processes of the fiv' I superior vertebrae of the neck : the slips unite, to form a muscle, tha ^ runs downwards. In. Near the superior angle of the scapula. Use. To pull the scapula upwards.