315 we shall often find a branch pass off, which is nearly as large as the ulnar itself ; viz. the interossea interna. But before this great trunk is given off, we shall generally find a branch running back to the elbow; viz. the kelue- aens ulnaris. After these two branches are seeu, the trunk may be traced down to the wrist, between the super- ficial and deep layer of the muscles : in its course, it gives' off many branches,—the most important of which, will be enumerated in the Table. We should now trace the branches of the interossea, for it is the vessel which supplies the principal parts of the fore arm. The trunk has already been seen, coming off from the ulnar, under the pronator teres,—from which, we may now trace it, aloDg the interosseous ligament, and between the flexor digitorum profundus and flexor pollicis. But we shall generally find, that almost immediately on its rising from the ulnar, it gives off a large branch, which may be traced, through the ligament, to the supinators and extensors, and is lost, at last, on the back of the band. But before this (the interossea externa) arises from it, there is ge- nerally a recurrent sent off,.to inosculate with- the anasto- motici upon the elbow. When we have followed the internal artery a9 far down as to the pronator quadratus, we shall find it divide into two vessels; one of which may be traced, through the in- terosseous ligament, to the back of the wrist,—while a smaller branch is continued down to the fore part of the bones of the carpus. The arteries of the haud are very numerous, and very complicated and difficult to dissect; but still the small branches will easily be understood after a general arrange- ment is made. We should commence the dissection, by raising the skin from the palm of the hand, so as to ex- pose the palmar aponeurosis. On removiug the skiu, a number of small branches will be seen ;—those on the middle and outer part, come from the uluar ; while those which are on the inside, and on the muscles of the thumb, are from the radial: Ivut here, we shall probably find one larger than the others, viz. the superficial!*- voljb. When the skin is dissected from the hack of the hand, llie main trunk of the radial will be found passing between the tendons of the extensors of the thumb; from which, it passes deep between the abductor indicis and adductor pol- iicis, to form the deep arch. There are no directions required, for tracing either the £ e 2