132 divided, to the lower edge of the ilium, and there, at the notch, and immediately above the pyriformis muscle, the artery will be found. In making these incisions, we must necessarily cut through several very large arteries. The incision for the ischiatic artery is to be begun at the side of the sacrum, at about three inches from the posterior spinous process of the ilium, and is to be carried in the length of the fibres of the gluteus maximus, to the outside of the tuberosity of the ischium ; by pushing in the finger, we shall feel the external sacro sciatic liga- ment, along which, and immediately under the margin of the pyriformis, the artery passes. The great nerve is about an inch to the iliac side of the artery. We may now proceed to the consideration of the most common operation which is performed on the arteries of the lower extremity,—the ligature of the superficial fe- moral artery, for popliteal aneurism. As this operation, in nine out of ten cases, is done upon parts which are in their natural state, we can now form very nearly an accurate idea of the steps of an operation,— which is little more than a simple dissection, made upon the living body. The limb should be laid rather on the side; a point is then to be marked on the groin, equidistant from the sym- physis of the pubes and the superior spinous process of the ilium. Here the artery will be felt. A cord may be fixed at that point, and stretched to the patella; an assis- tant should then stretch another cord between the superior spinous process of the ilium and the inner condyle of the femur. The centre of the incision should be about an inch above the point where these lines cross; it should be made about three inches long,—not in the line of the fibres of the sartorius, but rather across them. The skin is to be divided in the first incision ; and in the second, the thin superficial fascia, which should be cut to the full ex- tent of the incision through the skin. As the cut is made in a line across the sartorius, there will be little difficulty in recognizing this muscle. (And here I may remark, that none except those that have witnessed the exhibition, can imagine the difficulties which have ensued, in consequence of the edge of the triceps having been mistaken tor the sartorius.) The lower edge of the sartorius is now to be raised,—this will expose the fascia which passes from the triceps to the vastus internus; a little perforation is then to be made into the fascia, and a directory is to be passed under it, so that it may be slit up. The sheath