174 Depressor Labii Inferiors, or Quadratus Gena:. Or. Broad and fleshy, intermixed with fat, from the inferior part of the lower jaw next the chin ; runs obliquely upwards, and is In. Into the edge of the under lip 5 extends along one half of the lip, and is lost in its red part. Use. To pull the under lip and the skin of the side of the chin downwards, and a little outwards. Buccinator. Or. 1. The alveolar part of the lower jaw ; 2. the fore part of the root of the coronoid process; 3. the upper jaw ; 4. the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone. In. The angle of the mouth, within the orbicularis oris. Use. To draw the angle of the mouth,—to turn the morsel in the mouth, and to place it under the action of the grinding teeth. Levator Labii Superioris AljEque Nasi. Or. The nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, where it joins the os frontis. In. 1. The upper lip ; 2. the ala nasi. Use, To raise the upper lip and dilate the nostril. By some, the next muscle is described as part of this. Levator Labii Superioris Proprius. Or. The superior jaw bone, above the foramen infra orbitale. In. The upper lip and orbicularis muscle. Levator Anguli Oris, or Levator Labiorum Communis. Or. The hollow on the face of the superior maxillary bone, between the root of the socket of the first dens molaris and the foramen in- fra orbitale. In. The angle of the mouth. Use. To draw the corner of the mouth upwards. Compressor Naris. It consists of a few fibres, which ran along the cartilage of the nose, in an oblique direction, towards the dorsum of the nose. Or. The anterior extremity of the os nasi and nasal process of the superior maxillary bone, where it meets with some of the fibres descending from the occipito frontalis muscle. In. The root of the ala nasi. Use. I apprehend this muscle is to expand the nostril. As its name implies, it is supposed to compress the nose. Levator Labii Inferioris, or Superbus. Or. The lower jaw, at the roots of the alveoli of the two dentes incisivi, and of the caninus. In. The skin of the chin. Use. To pull up the chin, and, consequently, to raise and protrude the lip. Depressor Labii Superioris Al;eque Nasi. Or. The supe- rior maxillary-bone, immediately above the joining of the gums with the two dentes incisivi and the dens caninus. IN. The upper lip and root of the ala nasi. Use. To draw the upper lip and ala nasi downwards, and to com- press the nostril.