153 the cavity.—By lifting the cerebellum, we shall expose the sulcus on the upper part of the spinal marrow, which has been called the calamus scriptorius;—then, by di- viding the cerebellum vertically into two equal portions, we shall see the whole extent of the fourth ventricle, and also the appearance in the cerebellum which is called arbor vital But before making this section, there are two parts of the cerebellum to attend to ; the names are very absurd, but, since they are always mentioned, we must describe them.—Processus vermiformis superior, is the name given to the little eminence on the highest por- tion of the cerebellum, a9 it has some resemblance to a worm coiled up ;—this is the same part which we were obliged to hold aside, or cut away, in showing the nates and testes, and valvula cerebri. When we look at the lateral parts of the base of the cerebellum, upon the side of the sulcus which corresponds to the falx cerebelli, (and which has been removed in cutting the occipital bone,) two little convolutions will be seen, which, from some faint resemblance they have to worms, have been called the inferior vermiform processes. The method just pointed out, is the best manner of giving an accurate notion of the relation of the fourth ventricle to the other parts of the brain ; but if we object to it, in consequence of the scull being hurt by cutting out the portion of the occipital bone, we must raise the base of the brain from the scull, before we can examine the parts in the fourth ventricle. But in doing this, there are several points of anatomy which should be noticed, previous to the examination of the ventricle. The scull should be allowed to fall back a little, and then,with the handle of the knife we should lift part of the anterior lobe from its position on the frontal bone. In doing so, in a very fresh brain, we may see the olfactory nerves (I.) passing into the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; but this nerve is so soft, that, in general, it is destroyed before we reach this stage of the dissection. In turning the lobes farther back, the optic nerves, (II.) with the carotid artery rising by the side of them, will be distinctly seen. These nerves should be cut across, at their entry into the foramen npticum. The arteries, if injected, should be divided as far down as possible; but if they are not injected, it is not of consequence where they are cut. On cutting through these parts, we should alteud to a little red projection, which passes towards the sella turcica ; this is the infundibulum, which is attached to the pituitary gland. The next nerve, the motor