lower animals.; ami then I hope, with the assistance of the hints which arc given in the notes, that he will be able to assert, that his description of the anatomy of the nerves, as it now stands, is incorrect,—and conseqaenlly, all his ideas on the ganglionic system are untenable. If this be granted,—it follows, as a matter of course, that all experiments which have been instituted under the idea that Bichat’s anatomical observations were correct, must be liable to objections. However, injustice to the memory of Bichat, I must mention the circumstauce told by- bis biographer :—that be had commenced a review of the anatomy of the nerves ; and that be .had been actually engaged in examining the cervical ganglions, on the very night in which he met with the accident which Jed to Iris.death. It would appear from this, that he had some suspicions of the ac- curacy of his former labours ; with which, however, those who have followed him, have been content. In proof that the anatomy lias not been sufficiently attended to, in conducting these experiments, I may remark, that, from the in- timate manner in which the sympathetic and par vagum of many animals are united, where they lie by the side of . the larynx,—the sympathetic must frequently be divided with the par vagum, when the experimenter has supposed that lie-has out .only the latter nerve. That this has happened in the experiments, en the horse, 1 have not the slightest doubt: for I have found it very diffi- cult to separate these two nerves from each other, even in the dead animal. If this has taken place, (and which I have every reason to believe,) these e\peviments have shown, without the operator’s ap- pearing to have been aware of it, the very curious fact, tliat, whether the par vagum be cut singly, or with the sympathetic,—the same consequences follow. The most extraordinary circumstance, regarding these inquiries, remains to be noticed. The same gentlemen, after having-made a great many experiments, have, during their last trials, come to a very unexpected conclusion, and one which they did uot contemplate at first; viz. that the powers of the stomach, when cuLoff by the. division of the par vagn'ni, may he restored by the approximation of-tbe-di- vided ends,— and that if a portion of the nerve be removed, . the power of digestion will be renewed by firming a chain of 'Connection between the brain and the stomach, by means of galvanism. The experiments from which tlnse opinions are deduced,. and which are, as yet, very few, are founded on ;he assumption (which has already been.denied), that the power of digestion is conveyed from the brain to the stomach, through the par vagum. In tbe next, place, it is assumed, that bv cutting out a portion of the par vagum, the connection between tbe brain and the stomach is cut off. This I most object to,'When I see the intimate connection which tliere is, -at- every point of the thorax and abdomen, between the par vagum.-and.the spinal marrow, and, of course, with the brain. We have, in our experiments, found, when the power of a taoacle depends on a certain,nerve, that by simply cutting the-nerve,the