311 branches of the thoracica humeraria ; the vein is the cephalic. On the lower edge of the pectoralis, and up- per edge of the latissimus dorsi, branches of the tho- racica alaris and of the subscapular, will be found. By dissecting between the two muscles, we shall expose the axilla, in which we shall see a net-work of vessels and nerves, complicated with many lymphatic glands.—In con- sidering the surgical anatomi/, all the parts of the axilla will excite much interest; but at present we should trace the branches of the arteries only, through it. That we may follow the arteries more easily, we should now raise part of the pectoralis major from its origins. In doing this, we shall be obliged to cut through many branches : some of these come, through the intercostal muscles, from the mammaria interna; but the principal ones, are branches of the thoracica losgior, or mam- maria externa, which, when the muscle is farther raised, will be seen rising in common with the thoracica hume- raria, or acromial is; the branches of which, have already been observed passing between the deltoid and pectoralis major. The muscle may now be completely thrown back, and than the pectoralis minor will be exposed. A small artery will now be seen, passing into the space between the first and second ribs;—this is called the thoracica prima, or superior. On the lower edge of the pectoralis minor, some branches will be seen running into the fat and glands of the axilla,—which must be carefully followed, by dis- secting them with the forceps and scissars. These branches are described as coming from one trunk, which is called the thoracica alaris; but they generally arise in two or three small branches. The trunk, of the artery may now be fully exposed. It will be found covered by the veins, but lying below the level of the axillary nerves. Until it has fairly passed under the pectoralis minor, there will be no difficulty in se- parating it from the plexus of nerves; but immediately after it passes this muscle, it will be found to be completely en- veloped in the plexus. The arm must then be bent; which will relax the plexus, and enable us to dissect the cellular membrane from between the artery and nerves. When the artery comes opposite to the upper part of the insertion of the latissimus dorsi, it gives off the subscapu- lar artery; which will be found to pass under the scapula, and to give off numerous branches to the serratus magnus, subscapularis, latissimus dorsi, See.; and frequently to the axillary glands. We should now observe the beginning of