205 rest, which, had the patient lived longer, would probably have given way, aud then an aneurismal tumour would have been formed at the part. When a patient dies of a large aneurism which has formed a projecting tumour, we should proceed, in making the examination of it, nearly in the following manner:— The integuments should be dissected off from the tumour on the breast, and then, after calculating how far the bones are affected, we should endeavour to remove the sternum with the heart,and the aneurism attached to it. We shall then be able to make a more careful examination of the parts. If we make a section of the sternum, and of the aneurismal sac, we shall see the clot, probably, in several layers: the effect of the pressure on the bony part of the sternum should also be attended to. The sac itself will appear thick and lamellated, and studded with concretions, which are imbued in a matter resembling pus. The heart will probably be small and firm in its texture, and the valves of the aorta will be thickened, and white with concre- tions. The idea that it is necessary to cut through the internal coat of an artery, with the ligature, to ensure the closing of the vessel, is so common, that I think it necessary to en- treat the student to attend to this subject, as far as he can, in the dissecting-room. In preparing to inject a limb where the arteries are in the state in which they are generally found in a patient (•with aneurism, if we apply the ligature tightly upon the pipe which is in the artery, we shall cut through, not only the internal, but also the muscular coat; so that only the cellular coat shall remain : if we then throw in the i injection, it will most probably escape by the side of the I ligature.—If we tie the artery in the same manner, ait some distance down the limb, the coats will give «vay, when the injection is pushed, even with a moderate' I Torce, against the part tied. Here, then, is sufficient proof I that the vessel must be very much weakened, by this mode of applying a ligature. As to the idea that the union of '• the artery will not take place readily, where the ligature iloes not cut through the internal coat,—I shall only say, hat 1 have repeated the experiment which was made by 'Mr. Bell (when the notion of the necessity of cutting the internal coat was first advanced by Dr. Jones), of putting II ligature so loosely round the carotid of an ass, as not ’ven to obstruct the passage of the blood ; yet, in due time, * clot was formed, lymph was thrown out, aDd the sides T