125 By avery little dissection, we may now expose the great plexus of the sacro-sciatic nerve. When this is traced backward, it will be found to be formed by the fourth and fifth lumbar, and bj the first, second, and third sacral nerves.* The three great nerves, viz. anterior croral, obtura- tor, and sacro-isciiiatic, may now be traced to their final distribution. The anterior crural, having passed under Poupart’s ligament, immediately splits into a great number of branches, many of which may he traced into the muscles at the upper part of the thigh ; while others, which have been already described, go to the skin. Of the muscular branches, there are only two which it is of much importance to trace, and both of these run parallel to the femoral artery. The most external one does not run close upon the artery, but inclines towards the vastus iuternus, upon which it is distributed ; while the internal, (which is called the saphenus longus,) passes almost in the proper sheath, until the artery perforates the triceps. The nerve may then be traced to the inside of the knee, to become the cutaneous nerve, which has been already seen going to the inner ankle, along with the sa- phena vein. To show the branches of the obturator, we must dissect between the heads of the triceps : here we shall find many twigs, hut of these, the only important ones are one or two which run along the inside of the thigh, to unite with the saphenus longus. • While the sacro ischiatic nerve is in the form of a plexus in the pelvis, it gives off several branches, the principal of which is the pudic; indeed, this may be con- sidered a separate nerve, as it arises from the third, fourth, and fifth sacral nerves. It may be traced by the side of the tuber ischii, along with the arteries, to the muscles of the perineum, and to the penis. In the female, it is dis- tributed on the vagina and clitoris. The trunk of the ischiatic, after giving off the pudic, passes to the outer part of the- pelvis; it generally lies between the pyriformis and geraini muscles, but it is not unusual to find the pyriformis perforated by the nerve ; sometimes, indeed, the nerve is divided, by the tendon, into * These lumbar and sacral nerves may be more easily counted by looking into the section of the spinal canal. When the nerves of both sides are preserved, and pulled out from the spinal'canal, there is the appearance produced, which has been called Cauda Equina, M3