336 milk will be coagulated ; but the belt view of theie ves- sels may be given by a method, which a man may be per- mitted to do for once, viz. that of tying the thoracic duct of an animal which has been fed, about half an hour previous to its death, upon meal and milk:—there is no necessity for the cruel experiment of tying the duct, and opening the animal, while alive; for, as the action of the absorbents continues for a short time after the animal is deprived of sensibility,—if the duct be then tied, the lacteals will become distended. In the injection of the lymphatics, for a preparation, our success depends, perhaps, more on the body we choose, that on any other circumstance. It has commonly been said, that dropsical bodies are the best for making lymphatic preparations from ; but it will be found, that bodies only slightly anasarcous, if they be emaciated, are much better. In a patient dying of consumption, or of any disease by which the fat of the body has been absorbed, we shall perhaps succeed better than in any other. It is not merely on finding the lymphatics, and filling them with mer- cury, (for this may be done in almost any body,) that the success of the preparation depends, but also on the quick- ness with which the parts can be dried, after the vessels are injected. In consequence of the valvular structure of the lympha- tics, it is necessary to inject from the extremities, towards the trunk. In injecting an arm, or leg, we ought to begin as near the fingers, or toes, as possible; but we need never expect to inject the lymphatics as low down as they are represented in some anatomical plates. The difficulty of discovering lymphatics, is owing to se- veral causes. Though they are very small, still that does not so much constitute the difficulty, as their being gene- rally empty and transparent. It is advised, by some, to make use of magnifying glasses; but these will be found of little or no service, as it is the transparency of the vessels thatis the cause of their obscurity. Small branches of nerves, and small veins, are very often mistaken for lymphatics:— even a person, of the most experienced eye, will not always discover the mistake, until he attempts to fill them with mercury. It is almost in vain for any one to attempt injecting Iym* phatics, without an assistant; for there are so many things requisite, besides merely the holding of the tube ia the vessel, that he will find he can make but little progress by himself.