131 The operation of tying the external iliac arlery, has been very successful, when performed for spontaneous aneurism of the inguinal artery, but not for the aneurism that rises in consequence of a wound of this vessel. It is, therefore, of the greatest importance to attend to the distinction of these cases. This difference was first particularly ex- plained by Mr. Charles Bell; for he showed, that, in the case of spontaneous aneurism, the tying of the artery at a certain distance above the aneurism, would generally be successful; but that the artery must be tied above and below an aneurism which has arisen in consequence of a wound. As it is not possible to guess where it may be necessary to perform such an operation, we ought to make ourselves acquainted with all the connections of the artery through its whole course, that we may feel confident when called upon to take it up, at any point, in the living body. The operation of tying the internal iliac artery, has been performed for an aneurism of the gluteal artery, with success. The operation was thus described to me by Dr. Stevens:— “ I made an incision, about five inches in length, on the lower and lateral part of the left side of the abdomen, nearly half an inch to the outside of the epigastric artery, and parallel to that vessel. After dividing the skin and tthe three abdominal muscles, successively, 1 separated the :peritoneum from its connection with the iliacus internus and psoas, and then pushed it up towards the division of tthe common iliac. Here I was able to insinuate my finger ! behind the internal iliac, and then to compress it between my finger and thumb; I then passed a ligature below the .artery, with a blunt needle, and tied it with a single liga- tture, about half an inch from its origin.’’ The pulsation i in the aneurism immediately stopped, and the patient got Ivwell. Though it is difficult to suppose that such a case will (occur, as would make it necessary to tie the gluteal or i ischiatic arteries, where the parts surrounding them are, ait the same time, in a natural state,—still I shall describe tthe manner in which these arteries may be found, where tthe pressure of the blood has not destroyed the tissue of A.he muscles. For the gluteal. The body should be laid flat on the bielly, and the foot should be turned inwards. The inci- i tion should begin at two fingers’breadth below the pos- terior spinous process of the ilium, and be continued to- wards the upper part of the trochanter major. The fiSbres of the gluteus maximus and medius, are then to be