76 the testicle, scrotum, &c. in an adult. We are told, that on cutting through the skin, we shall see the muscle which is called the dartos; but although there is an evi- dent power of contraction in the skin of the scrotum, we ^hall seldom be able to discover muscular fibres under it,— but, instead of them, a quantity of loose cellular mem- brane, which can easily be inflated with air. In blowing this up, a sort of natural septum will be seen between the two sides of the scrotum. This cellular structure is very often distended in general anasarca, or in emphysema.— The distention of it in either of these cases, is compara- tively harmless: but if it be filled with urine, after the bursting of the urethra, it will be attended with more danger ; for if the urine be allowed to lodge, the membrane will become quickly gangrenous. The scrotum may now be dissected off, so as to show the testicle and its cord. The cord is composed of a number of different vessels and nerves, which are surrounded by a tissue of cellular membrane, called the tunica vaginalis communis.— Upon the upper surface of this, are the scattered fibres of the cremaster muscle. We may now take the testicle in our hand;—and if there has been no inflammation of the parts during life, we shall feel the body of the gland slipping about, as if it were contained within a sac. By dissecting on the fore part, we may open this sac, so as to show the gland lying within it.—It is called the tunica vaginalis ; being the same portion of peritoneum which we saw projecting into the scrotum before the descent of the testicle. But we shall now find, that though this is called a sac, that it does not contain the whole testicle, as in a sheath, but only the two anterior thirds of the body of the gland, which will be seen covered with the dense white glistening coat, which was formed by the adhesion of the peritoneum to it, while it was within the abdomen. This latter coat has, by the best authorities, been named “ tunica albu- ginea”, but by others, “tunica vaginalis reflexa”; the name “albuginea” being given by them to a dense fibrous matter which is under this coat, and immediately in- vests the testicle. There is, however, some difficulty in determining which is the most proper name; for even Haller is not very distinct in his definition of the two coats; but I am inclined to call the peritoneal covering, the tunica albuginea,—because the name seems to have been originally a surgical term, used in describing the while dense appearance of the peritoneal coat of the testicle, when the sac of a hydrocele was opened. It is observed in