203 opening in the septum auriculorum, which would admit four fingers. It did not appear that this man had ever suf- fered from any affection that could be referable to the Instate of the heart. The circumstance of his having died i from rupture of the aorta, seems to be an argument against ^supposing that the action of the heart had been deterio- rated by this opening. The tricuspid valve is very frequently ossified; but un- less we find this in the heart of a young person, we should not attach much importance to it. Within the right ven- i tricle, we shall generally find more blood than in the left; I and in that state of coagulation, which has, by many, been ; called Polypus. That these polypi are, for the most part, formed after 1 death, there can be little doubt; but still there are cir- cumstances which have induced many to believe, that they are formed during life. They are often found in layers ; and this, it is said, argues a successive formation ; or they are attached to the sides of the arteries, where their coats are diseased,—and their attachment does not appear to be accidental, or owing to the simple coagulation of the blood. ' In many instances, however, when these coagula are re- markably firm, and such as we might suppose were formed (during life, we shall find, upon examination, that the ex- tremity, which is loose, lies in a direction contrary to the (Course of the blood; a direction, in which we must be .’sensible it could not have remained during life, lor it rmust have been driven in the direction of the current (of the blood, while the root was held nearer, the heart. I In the centre of many of these coagula, there is an oily f fluid, so similar to pus, that I have seen such cases exhi- bited, as examples of abscess in the interior of the heart. Abscess in the walls of the ventricle, is a very uncommon (case; I have only seen one or two examples of it: but I lhave dissected a heart, in the muscular substance of which, t there were tubercles, which, though not in a state of sup- ipuration, imight, from their appearance, be called scro- iphutous. Malformations of the Heart. — We sometimes see an 1 opening in the septum ventriculorum : several preparations i of this kindjare preserved in the Museum,in Great Windmill (Street,—one of which, was taken from the body of a gen- itleman, fifty-six years of age, who had, six hours pre- vious to his death, gone through the exercise with the mus- iket, without suffering any inconvenience. In dissecting a ipuer asruleus, we shall generally find, that the pulmonary '• artery is very small, or that it passes into the aorta. In