248 On the left side, the par vagum will be seen, passing over the aorta, towards the lower part of the heart and the lungs. While it lies on the aorta, it gives off’ that branch which has already been seen running to the lower part of the larynx, viz. the inferior laryngeal, or re- current ;— on the right side, the recurrent passes round the subclavian artery. The par vagum * will now be found to form intricate plexuses of branches with the sympathetic, for the supply of the back part of the heart, and of the anterior and posterior part of the lungs. These branches form the deep cardiac plexus, and the anterior and posterior pul- monic plexuses : but to see them distinctly, we shall be obliged to cut off the ribs at the angles, on one, or both sides. If we then pull up the lung, we shall be able to see not only these plexuses, but also those branches of the par vagum, which encircle, or run in a net-work, on the # The par vagum connects the larynx, pharynx, lungs, heart, and stomach ; and the sympathies it produces in health and disease, are very many. Disorder of the stomach deranges the secretion of the larynx ; a vomit, or nauseating medicine will loosen the viscid secre- tion of the larynx and pharynx; disorders of the stomach, acting through the pulmonic plexus, will occasion cough; and medicines acting on the stomach will alleviate asthma. Through the plexus of this nerve, the heart and lungs are united, ever corresponding in ac- tion. When life seems extinguished by suffocation, (in experiments on animals) pricking the heart will be followed by respiration ; and in the apparently drowned, the play of the lungs, in artificial breathing, brings after it the action of the heart. It is well known how disease of the lungs affects the heart; but it is not so generally observed how much disease of the heart resembles pulmonary disease. Looking to the distribution of the par vagum on the stomach, and the plexus of the nerve, in its course upon the oesophagus, it will not appear surprising, that disorder of the uterine system, affecting the stomach, and also primary disorders of the stomach itself, should produce the glohus hystericus, or paralysis, or spasms of the pharynx and oesophagus. Although the heart and stomach be separated by the diaphragm,yet through this nervous cord they are united; and this explains why disorder of the stomach should produce such changes on the heart’s action. The pause, or intermission of the pulse, which, in many diseases, is a fatal symptom, is often produced in a manner less alarming,—merely by irritation of the stomach. Seeing these many connections of the stomach with the vital parts, through this nerve, our surprise ceases at a blow on the stomach proving instantly fatal. *