209 T a the external mammary, or thoracic arteries, and from the intercostal,—all of which, become much more important when the gland is secreting milk, or when it is enlarged and diseased. A very remarkable inosculation may be traced between the internal mammary and the epigastric artery, by which the sympathy between the womb and the breast, has been, by some, explained ; but this connection depends upon other laws of the economy. The veins are all very large, when the gland is in an active state. The lymphatics pass chiefl\ towards the glands in the axilla,— but some will be found to pass to the glands above the clavicle. We should observe the elastic structure of the nipple, or papilla; the glandular structure of the skin around the nipple; the opening of the lactiferous ducts.— When distended, these ducts take an irregular varicose- like form. The ducts are contracted before they termi- nate on the nipple t and the structure of their orifices is such, as only to allow the milk to pass when the nipple is drawn out by the sucking of the child. The areola, or dark coloured zone surrounding the nipple, will be found of a paler colour in girls; it changes to a darker colour during menstruation, and in women with child, or when giving suck. The glandular structure of the areola and nipple, appears to be, to prevent excoriation: but, like all glandular parts, it is subject to disease. It must be allowed by every one, that there is no question in pathology more important, than the.difference between harmless tumours of the breast, and those, which it may be necessary to extirpate. But, unfortunately, we find great difficulty in preserving the morbid appearances of this gland. Though we have been unable to preserve the charac- teristic appearances of the internal structure of the se- veral varieties of tumours of the breast, still, accurate drawings have been taken of the external characters of each species of tumour, and which are used by Mr. Bell, in his Lectures on Cancer. When the age of the patient is also taken into consideration, it would appear, from the immense number of cases that have occurred in the cancer ward of the Middlesex Hospital, that the external appear- ance of a tumour forms a better criterion for the rule of practice, than any that can be deduced from the section of it; for we not only find, that different tumours, when cut into, resemble each other, but that even a section of me virgin breast, may be mistaken, by those who are not con- versant with the subject, for a scirrhous tumour. When