108 cause of the death of those who gufl'er from cancer of the breast. It is also important to know, that this, and a slight degree of inflammation, are very frequently the cause of death in those who have met with severe accidents, or who have undergone a great operation. This is so important a point in the practice of surgery, that I shall refer the student to a paper which he will find upon the subject, in the Surgical Observations, by Mr. Bell. The pleura is very subject to inflammation. In the case of common phthisis, it will be found so thickened, and its smooth serous surface will be so altered in structure, that it will be hardly possible to recognize it. This may be con- sidered as a chronic state of the inflammation ; but if a pa- tient dies of pneumonia, within a week after the first attack, a quantity of coagulable lymph, or inflammatory crust, will be seen upon the inner surface of the chest, and from which it may be torn, as a tremulous gelatinous layer ; or, upon the surface of the lungs, a jelly will be thrown out, which can be wiped away w ith a cloth. These exudations approach, in their more advanced stages, to the appear- ance of the natural membranes, and cau with difficulty be distinguished from the original membranes. When there is a vacancy in the t^j^x, from disease, as from the destruc- tion of the lungs of one side, and when pus has been formed, there will generally be layers of coagulable lymph upon the inner surface of the pleura; or, we shall find a serous fluid in the bottom of the chest, with flakes of the coagulable lymph, like membranes, floating in it. When the pus is in great quantity, the disease is then called empyema; and this will also sometimes be found after injuries by falls. The vomica is the name given to an ab- scess in the luDg ; but if this bursts into the cavity of the chest, it will form the empyema: this, however, is not the species of this disease, for which we would propose the operation of paracentesis thoracis. Of Adhesions of the Lungs.—Adhesions of the lungs to the pleura, where it lines the ribs, or where it covers the pericardium, are so frequent, that they need scarcely be considered as a disease,—at least, they are of no account in investigating the cause of death ; for it would appear, that the slightest inflammation, during any period of the person’s life,—even from colds, which pass unobserved, produces adhesions, which are never afterwards removed. In examining the slate of the lungs, it is of much impor- tance to distinguish between the effect of the gravitation of the blood, and the consequence of previous inflamma- tion. From the body’s lying in a horizontal posture after