1 think I have also shown, by the dissection of these nerves in the 2G1 united nerves may be traced through the foramen lacerum, with the internal jugular vein.—As soon as they emerge from the scull, they separate. The par vagum will be found to form a sort of ganglion, just at its exit from the scull. The IXth pair will he found to come, by a single set of filaments, from the corpus pyramidale,—and to pass through the foramen condyloideum, direct to the mus- cles ot the tongue. We may now examine the manner in which each cervical nerve arises from the spinal marrow. We shall find that each nerve has a double root, i. e. one from the anterior, and the other from the posterior column of the spinal mar- row ;—that the one from the posterior, has, immediately before it joins with the anterior, a ganglion formed upon it;* and if we carefully examine this, we shall find that, from each ganglion, a small nerve is sent off, to unite with the sympathetic.t To trace the sympathetic through the foramen caro- ticum,—and to show its connections with thenerves within the scull, it will be necessary to sacrifice the greater number of the other branches. When the foramen caro- licura is opened, a plexus of nerves will be found, surround- ing the carotid artery, which appear to be united with the VIth, but which, when carefully traced, will be found to pass over the VIth, to the Casserian ganglion of the Vth. :£ * Some curious experiments have been made in Windmill Street, on the comparative degree of sensibility of the two origins of these nerves. Though in these experiments there was sufficient observed, to induce us to believe, that there is much difference between the two sets of fibrils,—yet, from the difficulty of making them, the facts are not yet so distinct, as to permit us to mention them. t This union, or origin, of the sympathetic, appears to have been entirely overlooked by Bichat. He has described the ganglion, but not the nerve of communication. Had he lived, in all probability he would havo investigated the anatomy farther,—and then lie might, perhaps, have given up the idea of considering the sympathetic as a part entirely distinct from the system of the spinal nerves. It is a striking and curious fact, that, in the edition of his Anatomie Descrip- tife, published in 1802, the editor says, “ Nous reprenions ensem- ble le systeme nerveux des ganglions et c’etoit le soil- meme ou nous avions commence le ganglion cervical superieur, que Bichat-fitcette ftmesfe chute qui determina sa derniere maladie.” X Professor Btich, of Leipsic, and M. Cloquet, of Paris, have, jin prosecuting the minute anatomy of the sympathetic nerves, discovered a small ganglion in the cavernous sinus. This I have often seen; but