212 attached to the transverse processes of the cervical verte- brae, is called splenius colli. The splenius should now be cut through the middle: the upper half is to be reflected towards the occiput, and the lower towards the spine. This will expose the third layer of muscles; the principal ones of which, are the sacro lumbalis and the longjssi- MUS DO RSI. After showing the insertions of the sacro lumbalis, ac- cording to the description given in the annexed table, we may trace a portion of muscle, which appears to be a continuation of it, upon the neck. This, however, is a distinct muscle, and is called the cervicalis descenders. If we follow the longissiinus dorsi in the same manner, we shall find a muscle, also connected with its upper part, but not so distinct as the last muscle,—it is the transver- salis colli ; immediately upon the inside of which, and closely connected with it, is a set of fibres, which run from the lateral part of the vertebras to the mastoid process, whence these fibres are called the trachelo mastoideus ; or, sometimes, from their intricacy, the complexut minor. We shall now have a distinct view of the proper com- plexes, which is a very large muscle. That part of it which is near to the spine, has a central tendon, whence this portion has sometimes been described as a separate muscle, under the name of biventer. After showing the numerous attachments of the complexus, it is to be raised from the spinous processes, and from the occiput. The semi-spinalis colli will now be seen lying close upon the vertebrae; and there will also be a set of small muscles exposed, which run between the vertebra denlata, the f atlas, and the occiput. The one which runs from the e spinous process of the dentata to the occiput, is the rec- : tus capitis posticus major; while the one which runs from the same point, to the transverse process of the atlas, id is the obliqucs capitis inferior ; and from this trans- , verse process, a set of fibres may be traced to the occiput, I forming the muscle called obliquus capitis superior. I The last of these muscles is a very short one, which arise* « from the knob on the back part of the atlas, and is inserted j into the edge of the foramen magnum : it is the rectus j capitis minor. It is not necessary to give any directions for the dis*ee-J tion of the remaining muscles on the back. It only re-i| j quires that their origins and insertions should be shown-,J according to the description given in the annexed table. t