301 Anconeus. Or. From the back part of the external condyle of the os humeri; it soon grows fleshy. In. A ridge on the outer and posterior edge of the ulna, being continued some way below the olecranon. It is covered with a strong fascia. The muscles lying on the fore arm, are generally consider- ed very difficult for a student to understand ;—perhaps the following plan of arranging them in numbers, will obviate some of the difficulties. If we take the biceps flexor as a supinator, which it truly is, and the mass of the flexor muscles (on the fore arm) as one great pronator, for such is their conjoint operation, then the muscles will go in threes—thus: For the motion of the wrist, three flexors, the ulnaris, radialis, and medius (commonly called palmaris longus) ; three extensors—ulnaris, radialis longior, and brevior; three pronators,—the teres, quadralus, and the mass of the flexor muscles ; three supinators,—the supinator lon- gus, brevis, and biceps cubiti. There are three extensors of the fingers, viz. extensor communis digitorum, extensor primi digili, and extensor minimi digili; three extensors of the thumb,—extensor primus, secundus, and tertius; three flexors of the fingers and thumb,—flexor digitorum sublimis, flexor digitorum profundus, flexor pollicis longus. In describing the muscles of the fore arm, it is nearly correct to say, that the flexors and pronators arise from the inner condyle, and the extensors and supinators from the outer condyle: but the supinators and pronators will be more properly distinguished by their insertions, as ail muscles which turn the hand must be inserted into the radius; as for example,—the supinator longus, the supinator brevis, the pronator teres, the pronator qua- dralus. TABLE OF THE MUSCLES LYING ON THE FORE ARM. FLEXORS OF THE WRIST. Flexor Carpi Radialis. Or. The internal condyle of the os humeri, and from the fore and upper part of the ulna. In. The fore and upper part of the metacarpal bone that sustain* the fore finger,—runs over the os trapezium. D D