58 It then rises on the front of the rectum, so as to form a bag, or pouch, between the bladder and rectum ; the lateral boundaries of which are sometimes called the posterior ligaments of the bladder, if the lower part of the muscles of the abdomen be still entire, we may see the remains of the umbilical arteries running up along the lateral parts of the bladder to the umbilicus,—and, be- tween them, the urachus passing from the fundus. These parts will appear like three thickened lines upon the peritoneum. f The peritoneum may now be raised ; it is so loosely connected with the bladder at the fundus, that, with the fingers only, we may tear it from the muscular coat of the bladder; but we must remove it more cautiously from the lower part, or we may destroy the ducts of the testicle, which run on each side of the bladder; but these ducts are so thick and dense, that, though they may not be seen, they will be easily felt. If we put small bougies into the ureters, as a guard against wounding them, we may proceed more boldly in removing the peritoneum from the lower part. The muscular fibres of the upper part of the bladder will now be seen ; but a great deal of dissection is re- quired to make the parts below, distinct. Part of the rectum is still covered by the levator ani, which ought now to be dissected away, and then a quantity of cellular membrane will be seen between the rectum and bladder. In removing this, the knife must be used cautiously, until a portion of the vesicula seminalis, which lies between the rectum and bladder, is exposed ;—it will be known by its dark glistening appearance. If we follow the vesicula forwards, we shall discover the lateral part of the prostate gland. The bulb should now be made distinct, by remov- ing any muscular fibres that may be attached to it; but we must be very careful in dissecting immediately under it, for the little bodies which are called Cowper's glands, are situated here. These bodies are not very easily shown; but by taking the bulb between the finger and thumb, we shall readily discover them; although they will have rather the feel of condensed cellular membrane than of glands. After having made the prostate and bulb distinct, the portion of the urethra which is between them, and which is called the membranous part, is to he examined. The staff may be felt in it; but the muscular fibres and liga- ments which surround it, give it a very different appear- ance to what we should have expected to find, from the