TABLE OF THE SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE NECK. Latissimps Colli, or Platysma Myoides. Or. By many de- licate flesliy fibres, from the cellular substance which covers the upper parts of the deltoid and pectoral muscles. They pass over the clavicle adhering to it. They ascend obliquely, to iorrn a thin muscle, which covers all the side of the neck. In. 1. The fascia on the base of the lower jaw ; 2. the depressor i anguli oris, and the fascia on the cheek. Use. It is said to assist the depressor anguli oris in drawing the . skin of the cheek downwards ; and, when the mouth is shut, it draws i all that part of the skin to which it is connected below the lower jaw, upwards. The true use of the muscle, is, to assist the respiration and circulation. Sterno Cleido Mastoideus. Oh. 1. The top of the sternum, near its junction with the clavicle ; 2. the upper and anterior part of the clavicle. In. The mastoid process of the temporal bone and inastoidean angle. Use. To turn the head to one side, and bend it forwards. Sterno Hyoideiis. Or. 1. The cartilaginous extremity of the first rib ; 2. the upper and inner part of the sternum ; 3. the clavicle, where it joins with the sternum. IN. The base of the os hyoides. Use. To pull the os hyoides downwards. Omo Hyoidees, or Biventer Inferior. Or. The superior costa of the scapula, near the semilunar notch, and the ligament that runs across it. Ascending obliquely, it becomes tendinous below the sterno cleido mastoid muscle: it grows fleshy again towards its— In. Into the base of the os hyoides. Use. To assist in pulling down the os hyoides. STERNO ThyrOIDECS. Or. The edge of the triangular portion of the sternum, internally, and from the cartilage of the first lib. In. The inferior edge of the thyroid cartilage. Use. To draw the larynx downwards. Thyreo Hyoioels. Or, The lower part of the thyroid carti- lage. In. Part of the base, and the cornu of the os hyoides. Crico Thyroideus. Or. The side nnd foie part of the cricoid cartilage. In. The lower part of the thyroid cartilage, and its inferior cornu. Q