176 part of this, we see the uvula, and on the lateral parts, the two arches,—the anterior and posterior. The space which is between the two, being occupied by the TONSIL, or AMYGDALA. The anterior arch is formed by a fold of the mucous membrane, and a few muscular fibres; these may be now exposed: they form the muscle which is called constric- tor isthmi faucium. The posterior arch is also formed by a muscle, (the palato pharyngeus,) but this should not be dissected yet. We have now two very difficult muscles to examine, viz. the circumflexus or tensor palati, and the leva- tor palati. Before these can be exposed, all the fibres of the pterygoidei must be removed; and as they arise, one from each side of the Eustachian tube, we should pass a probe into it, so as to mark its situation. The lube will be seen by raising the soft palate. The circumflexus, or tensor will be found arising from the temporal bone, and covering the upper part of the Eustachian tube ; its tendon passes towards the internal pterygoid process of the sphenoid hone: and after passing over the hamular, or hook-like process, in the manner of a rope, it is spread upon the soft palate. The levator arises immediately from the lower edge of the tube, from which it passes directly to the middle of the palate. The palato pharyngeus, which forms the posterior arch, will be found immediately below the last muscle -r it passes down, to unite with the constrictors of the pharynx. The muscular fibres which are described as forming part of the uvula, and which are called azygos uvula:, may be seen by merely raising the mucous membrane.. The next stage of the dissection should be, to display the three constrictors of the pharynx; 'nut previous to commencing the dissection of them, the pharynx should be slutted with baked horse hair, so as to make the fibres tense.—By then pulling the parts over to one side, the hag of the pharynx may he exposed ; but the dissection will be much facilitated, if the trachea and pharynx are cut through, immediately above the sternum, for then the parts may he held up, so that we may easily remove the cellular membrane ; and this is all that is necessary to he done, to show the three orders of fibres. Those which are close upon the occiput, form the constrictor superior ; the next, which run obliquely down to the thyroid car- tilage, are called the constrictor medius; and the third,