104 2. Ligamentum Sncro Ischiaticum Minus. 3. Ligurnenta Vaga. (On the inside of lhe sacrum.) 4. Commissura Ossium Pubis. 5. Annulus Ligumentosus. 6. Membrana Oblurans. 7. Ligamcnturn Pouparlii. There is very little dissection necessary, to show the ligaments of the hip joint, for if all the muscles* are raised, the only ligament which surrounds the joint will be seen. This is a very strong ligament, and is called the ligamentum capsulare. It takes an attachment round the acetabulum, and descends to the line between the trochanters, in front, and to the same extent on the back part, so as to embrace the whole of the head and neck of the bone. The ligament is strengthened, on the anterior part, by a band of fibres which run from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium, forming the Liga- mentum Accessorium Anticum. A similar band may be seen on the posterior part, and which forms the Ligamentum Accessorium Posticum. By cutting through the capsular ligament, which is in some parts very strong, we shall expose the edge of the acetabulum ; but the bones will not yet fall separate, because the form of the acetabulum is such, that it surrounds part of the head, so as to hold it in its place, independent of the ligaments; but by pull- ing a little, the femur will be easily displaced : and now the ligament, which is called by some ligamentum teres, bv others, ligamentum triangulare, will be seen rising from the bottom of the acetabulum, and passing to the head of the femur. With a very slight jerk, this ligament may be torn; and then we shall see a fatty substance at the bottom of the acetabulum, which has been called the ApparutusMucosus. There are some little bands connected with it, which are called Ligamenlutce Adiposce. The femur being removed, we should now compare the size of the acetabulum, with that in the skeleton. We shall see that it is much deepened by the addition of a ring of ligamentous cartilage, which surrounds its edge. On the inner part, where the boue is deficient, a distinct portion of ligament will be seen, running across the lower part of the acetabulum ; this has been called the Liga- inentum Transversale, while the portion which encircles * A large bursa will be seen, in cutting away the tendon of the glnteus maximus; and generally another, under the tendons of the iliacus internus, and psoas magnus.