50 the umbilicus. When the dissection is finished, and the skin is sewed up, the incision should be concealed by strips of strongly adhesive plaster. The morbid anatomy of the viscera is a subject so ex- tensive, that it is not possible for me to enter into it fully here.—All that the limits of this work will permit, is, to endeavour to point out a few of the circumstances which are liable to lead those who are not conversant with anatomy, to make erroneous statements of the appear- ances which they see in making the examination of a body. It is not unusual to see a minute description given of— “ a very curious displacement of the viscera”: but the position of the viscera in the dead body depends on such a variety of circumstances, that we ought not to attach importance to any trifling change from that which is con- sidered natural. The omentum is frequently described as extra sedem : but, if I were to take the description of the omentum from the common appearance which it has in bodies after they have been moved, I should have great difficulty in saying what its natural situation really is. I have observed, that if there has been inflammation in any one of the viscera, at any period, that the omentum is found attached to it; thus, the most common appearance of disease in the abdomen of the female, is adhesion of the omentum to the uterus. It is a very common mistake to describe the loaded state of the vessels as an appearance denoting previous inflammation: the state of the true inflamed intestine is so distinct, that it can hardly be forgotten after it has been once seen. In the first stage, there are numerous small vessels seen upon the gut, like those on the eye in ophthal- mia, with a suffusion around them ; in the second stage, there is matter, or lymph, effused ; and in the more ad- vanced state, adhesions are formed between the surfaces of the intestines. But there are many different kinds of peri- tonitis. In that which is called idiopathic, the peritoneum will be found coaled with lymph ; but after inflammation in consequence of strangulated hernia, the substance of the intestine will appear more affected than the proper perito- neum. I cannot enter farther on this important subject j but shall refer to a very early work, by Mr. Bell, in which much interesting matter on the morbid anatomy of all the viscera will be found. We must not fall into the mistake of supposing, that the air which rushes out when the abdomen is opened, has been formed during the life of the patient; for though