73 Transversalis alter Perinei, or Obliquus. Or. From the tuberosity of the ischium, behind the former : it runs more obliquely forwards. IN. The side of the ejaculator seminis. We do not always find both these muscles ;—sometimes the one, and not the other. There is occasionally another portion found, which has been described as a transversalis profundus ; but it runs so deep under the others, as to be generally described as a part of the levator ani. Sphincter Ani. This muscle consists of fibres, which encircle the verge of the anus. It may be said to have neither origin, nor insertion into any particular point ; but we may observe, that certain •superficial fibres, after encircling the anus, are attached, about an inch above the bulb, to the union of the ejaculator muscles, while a deeper set of fibres are inserted into the union between the trans- versalis and ejaculator: sometimes a slip runs distinctly to this last muscle, and is called musculus lateralis urethra. The fibre* i posterior to the anus are attached, by a distinct tendon, to the os coccygis. The lower set of the muscular fibres on the rectum, have been by some described as forming an internal sphincter. Levator Ani. Or. 1. Os pubis and os ischium, within the pelvis, as far as the upper edge of the foramen thyroideum ; 2. from the thin tendinous membrane that covers the obturator internus and ■coccygeus muscles ; 3. from the spinous process of the os ischium. I Its fibres run down converging. In. The sphincter ani, and verge of the anus, and anterior part of ■ the two last bones of the coccyx. It surrounds the extremity of the -rectum, neck of the bladder, prostate gland, and part of the vesiculx • seminales. Use. To sustain the contents of the pelvis, and to help in ejecting the semen and contents of the rectum; to restrain the protrusion of the anus in evacuation of the faeces. I shall describe the coccygeus here, though it cannot properly be considered a muscle of the perineum :— Coccygeus. Or. Tendinous and fleshy, from the spinous pro- cess of the os ischium, and the inside of the posterior sacro-ischiatic iVigament. From this narrow beginning, it gradually increases, to form a thin fleshy belly, interspersed with tendinous fibres. In. Into the extremity of the os sacrum, and nearly into the ■ whole length of the os coccygis. Use. To move the os coccygis forwards. In dissecting the parts exposed by the section of the pelvis, we may observe certain small muscles, the connections of which are so i difficult to show, that there are hardly two authorities who describe ' them in the same manner,—so that they have been frequently a sub- ject of dispute: they are, the COMPRESSOR PROSTAT/E and the COM- : PRESSOR, or levator URETHRAE. According to Ihe best authorities, t the compressor prostata; arises, in loose fibres, from between the sym- i physis pubis and the membrana obturans ; it then runs backwards, H