66 ger of infiltration of urine, after the operation. But, un- fortunately, experience proves to us, that it is impossible to perform the operation without cutting it.* When the section is completed, this fascia may be traced to the sur- face of the lateral part of the bladder, and to the vesiculae seminales: here it is called fascia vesiculis. But there is also another portion of fascia, which has a firm attachment to the symphysis pubis, and passes down to the prostate; it will be made more distinct, by depressing the prostate, towards the rectum, with the staff. It will then appear to form a ligament to the prostate; for it surrounds, or rather is perf orated, by the prostatic part of the urethra,— from which it may be traced down to the verge of the anus. This fascia cannot be confounded with the one which passes from the obturator muscle,—because the fi- bres of the levator ani are interposed between them. Before making any further dissection, we should again practise the introduction of the catheter. We have al- ready noticed the difficulty which was produced by the point of the instrument falling into the sinus, at the bulb ; and we have also understood why it is obstructed imme- diately behind the bulb. After having passed these two impediments, the instrument will enter easily, for three- quarters or half an inch,—but there, it may be obstructed by the fascia which we have just described. This difficulty may be overcome by raising the point a little, and by push- ing the instrument forwards, recollecting, at the same time, the axis of the pelvis. The point may still be struck against the edge of the sphincter of the bladder. This is the last cause of obstruction in a sound urethra, and will be easily overcome, by depressing the handle of the instru- ment a little. The catheter may be left in the urethra. As the fibres of the ejaculator have been already removed, very little dissection will now be required to show the artery passing into the bulb—the Cowper's glands, and the ligament through which the urethra passes. If after examining those parts, we remove the levator ani from its connection with the upper part of the ramus of the pubes, we shall see, immediately behind the circular ligament, certain muscular fibres, which are covered by a set of small ves- sels. These muscular fibres have been described by Mr. Wilson as forming a distinct muscle, which surrounds the * I have endeavoured, in a paper printed in the Quarterly Journal of Foreign Medicine andSurgery, in January, 1821, to show the true cause of the infiltration of urine into the cellular membrane, after the operation of lithotomy.