34 tame time with the vessels of the upper part of the body, from the arch of the aorta, it can hardly be expected that the vessels of the viscera, or of the limbs, will be fully distended, for the size and dilatabilitv of the vessels of the abdomen will take off the force of the syringe from the smaller vessels. The objection to introducing the pipe into the aorta, above the diaphragm, and injecting downwards, is, that, to manage the pipe properly, a great part of the thorax must be destroyed. The best composition for the injection of the vessels of the viscera, is a strong solution of glue, coloured with red lead, or an injection made of tallow and turpentine varnish. As both of these compositions must be used while warm, it is necessary to heat the vessels of the abdomen ; this is most easily done by making an opening into the intestines, and injecting a quantity of hot water into them. The veins must be injected before the intestines are ex- amined ; and as there are no valves in them, the injec- tion will be easily made. The veins of the liver may be injected from the ramifi- cations of those in the mesentery; or the veins of the intestines may be injected from the trunk of the vena portae. To find the vena port® as it enters the liver, the stomach should be held down, and the smaller omen- tum cleared away from betwixt the stomach and liver: the vein is then found (covered in part with cellular substance) running obliquely across the spine, and pa- rallel to the biliary duct. If we be uncertain of its situa- tion, the substance of the liver may be pressed gently with the hand, or the blood urged along the veins of the intestines, and then the vena port® will rise from the con- fusion, as a large dark blue vein. But to understand the course of the veins which form the vena port®, and at the same time not to endanger the cutting of them, we should inject them by putting a pipe into the ileo colic vein. This branch is easily found, as it has its name from being subservient to the caput coli and that part of the intestinum ileon which joins the colon ; it is only necessary, therefore, to fold back the small intes- tines from the right os ilium, and to expose the caput coli, and to follow up the veins till they have assumed a size large enough to admit the tube. After puncturing the vein, and fixing the tube, there should be a ligature put upon the part of the vessel behind the tube, that the injection may be prevented from coming round and es- caping. Before throwing in the injection, the veins