226 lowed to pass into the heart, the force of the syringe will be so taken off, that the extreme branches of the head and arms will not be filled. The manner of inject- ing the heart, &c. for a preparation, has been already described at page 206. 1/ the student wishes to make a very minute injection of wax, of the arteries of the head or arm, he must inject each part separately; for when they are both injected at once from the aorta, the ex- treme branches are very seldom filled. In describing the manner of dissecting the great arteries, I shall suppose that the injection has been made from the aorta, opposite to the sixth rib. Though the ventricle has not been filled, the coronary arteries will;—there is not much dissection required to show them, unless the heart be very fat; in such a case, part of the fat should be removed.* By raising the pericardium, and the cellular membrane, from the root of the aorta, the ascending part of the arch will be exposed ; and by cutting a little higher, the great vessels which pass from it, would beseem but be- fore this is done, we may examine some of the other vessels of the heart, which, though uninjected, may still be easily dissected. First, we may show the origin of the pulmonary artery, which, as it runs under the aorta, divides into two great branches, which pass into the lungs. The adhesion which is so strong between the lower part of the aorta, and the point of the bifurcation of the pul- monary artery, is produced by the remains of the ductus ARTERIOSUS. On the right side of the ascending aorta, the descend- ing vena cava is seen ; and when the pericardium is completely dissected away, the great veins which form it. will be shown, viz. the union of the left jugular, and' left subclavian veins, t which form a branch, thali passes across, to unite with tke right subclavian, and|] RIGHT JUGULAR VEINS. The VENA AZYGOS paSSCS into th« ! * The dissection of the arteries of the brain should be made previous to tracing any of the arteries of the chest; by which tht student will have au opportunity of seeing the parts of the braitf which he in all probability would lose, if he were to leave the di9 section of the branches of the internal carotid, until he has finishe« those of the chest, and of the external carotid. The manner a dissecting the arteries of the brain, is described a little farther on. j t The thoracic duct will not be seen unless it has been filled froull below,—it passes into the angle between the subclavian and jugulaW veins of the left side.