6 are intimately united. The tendon of the transversalis being attached to the posterior portion of the obliquus, passes with it behind the rectus, from theensiform cartilage to a point midway between the umbilicus and pu. and there it passes anterior to the rectus, with the obliqu - and is inserted with it into the os pubis; so that at the lowt part of the abdomen both muscles pass anterior to the rec- tus. It will be afterwards found that there is only a little cellular membrane between this part of the rectus and the peritoneum. When the internal oblique has been raised so as to expose the whole of the transversalis, we shall find that its origin and insertion are very similar to those of the obliquus internus ; but it is generally described as arising from the cartilages of the seven lower ribs, from the fascia lumborum, from the transverse processes of the last dorsal and the four superior lumbar vertebrre, from the spine of the ilium, and two third's of Poupart’s liga- ment; the fibres then pass to the linea alba and pubes. The muscles which remain to be dissected are the rectus and pyramidalis. The most important part of the ana- tomy of the rectus is its sheath. It has already been seen that it is formed by the splitting of the tendon of the in- ternal oblique, to the anterior portion of which, the tendon of the external oblique is attached, while the tendon of the transversalis unites with the posterior layer. The rec- tus itself may be exposed by cutting through the tendon of the external oblique and the anterior layer of the in- ternal oblique, at their attachment to the linea alba, but some difficulty will be experienced in separating the sheath from the belly of the muscle, in consequence of the linea transverse. The muscle will be found at its lower end to be attached to the symphysis pubis, and at the upper to the ensiform cartilage and the cartilages of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs. At the lower part of the belly, a pyramidal set of fibres will generally be found, forming a distinct muscle, called the pyramidalis. It arises from the sym- physis pubis, and is inserted into the linea alba, about two inches above the pubes. The parts being thus dissected, can be demonstrated in such various views, and with such quick succession, that they cannot fail to be effectually understood. And having carefully observed their strict anatomy, no one can be at a loss to recapitulate their general character and uses. It may be observed in the skeleton how great a space there is to be covered from the edge of the thorax to the brim of the pelvis, and backwards to the spine; and re-