192 We shall also derive much assistance in our examination of the structure of the heart, as the principal agent in the circulation of the blood, by dissecting the hearts of the various classes of animals ;—for then we shall understand, that the structure of the heart varies according to the dif- ferent systems of respiration. The method which has been described for making the first dissection of the heart, may be nearly followed in making a more minute examination of it. In removing the heart from the body, we should always take a small portion of the diaphragm with the inferior'cava; and in opening the cavities, a little more attention should be paid to certain marks. To open the auricle, we should introduce a probe, or blow-pipe, into the lower cava, and convey its point to the projecting part of the auricle. If we now cut the auricle in the direction of the probe, the Eustachian valve, and every important part, will be avoided. Continuing to hold the heart nearly in the same situation in which it lies when in the body, the septum which divides the right from the left auricle, will be seen,—and upon it, the remains of the j foramen ovale. This fossa avails is an irregular depres- sion, of an oval form, with its border, especially on its upper part, elevated into a ring. Its margin is white, and has somewhat the appearance of tendon. The part in the middle, which performed the office of a valve in the foetus, is white and firm. This membranous portion seems con- tinuous with the margin upon the lower part,—while, upon the upper part, it goes behind the margin of the fossa. || If the lower cava, where it expands into the auricle, be held open, a membrane will be seen stretching from the inner side of the margin of the foramen ovale, (this por- tion is sometimes called the isthmus of the foramen ovale,) round upon the half of the root of the vein nearest to the opening of the auricle into the ventricle: this is the Eustachian valve: it is like a duplicature of the inner \ membrane of the auricle. Behind the Eustachian valve, is the opening of the great coronary vein; which vein, running round the margin of i the left auricle, gathers the blood from the smaller coro- bary veius. The liLlle semilunar valve, on the mouth of this vein, was likewise first described by Eustachiug. Some small openings, of a size sufficient to admit bristles, may be found in different parts of the auricle. They were at onetime supposed to be ducts, and were called foramina Thebesii; but they are probably only the openings of some «f the small veins of the heart, into the auricle. :