124 under the true skin; that they are more superficial than the veins and nerves ; that they run in straight lines, and are only partially seen, or seem to be abruptly broken off, by the intervening pellicles offal. They appear very large and varicose when distended, especially in the course of the saphena vein; and they are more numerous upon the middle part of the thigh, than upon the outer part. In colour and appearance, when in their natural state, and collapsed, they resemble loose muscular fibres, being flat reddish lines; being pellucid only when distended with air. When they are blown up, or injected with mercury, they take a very peculiar appearance, for they swell only be- twixt their valves. The lymphatics of the thigh, pass into the glands at the groin,—but we must particularly notice that there are three sets of glands here—the first receive the lymphatics from the superficial part of the thigh, the second receive the lymphatics of the skin of the penis and scrotum, and perineum, while a deeper set are formed by the lymphatics which accompany the great arteries of the leg. When the glands are injected, secondary lymphatics may be traced from them into another set of glands. The lymph is then carried from these, by a third set of vessels, to glands which have a direct communication with the thoracic duct.—The superficial lymphatics on the back of the leg, may be traced into a gland in the ham. Previous to the dissection of the deep nerves of the thigh, a section of the pelvis should be made, according to the second method described at page 57. As it is supposed that all the nerves of the viscera, and the cutaneous nerves of the thigh, have been already traced, we have now to attend only to the origins of the ANTERIOR CRURAL, OBTURATOR, and ISCHIATIC NERVES. The fibres of the psoas muscle must be freely cut, so that we may expose the plexus of nerves which gives origin to the anterior crural. This plexus is generally formed by the second, third, and fourth lumbar, and the first sacral. The anterior crural may be traced in the angle between the psoas and iliacus, as far as the edge of Poupart’s liga- ment ; but before we trace it farther, we should attend to the obturator, which is seen passing across the pelvis, towards the thyroid hole. If we trace this nerve back to- wards the loins, we shall find it in close connection with the anterior crural nerve; for it also arises from a plexus, which is formed by the third and fourth lumbar nerves, and sometimes by a twig from the second.