135 We may now trace the artery through the sheath form- ed by the teudou of the adductor magnus; and we should particularly notice a branch which is given off here,— for though it is small, it is of considerable importance in the operation of amputation of a diseased knee; for as this is the part, at which the great artery will be generally cut, there is some chance of this branch being overlooked in the securing of the vessels: and when this has happen- ed, a dangerous haemorrhage has been the consequence. The easiest way of managing this small vessel, will be, to pull the main artery out of its sheath, so that we may apply a ligature above the point where the branch is given off. Having completed the dissection of the deep parts of the thigh, we should retire a step from the body, and look to the general figure of the limb, aud notice carefully the course of the artery down the thigh ; the probability of its being wounded by stabs in such and such places and di- rections ;—the situation of the trunk of the profunda, as distinguished from the great artery, and the probability of wounds of the descending branches of the profunda being mistaken for wounds of the femoral artery itself. As in this dissection we should also preserve the branches of the obturator and anterior crural nerve, we shall be able to comprehend, from the view of them, why patients frequently suffer pain in the inside of the knee, in the pri- mary stages of disease of the hip joint. The course of the deep nerves may also explain to us the cause of some very odd sy mptoms, which occasionally occur $—such as violent burning pain in the sole of the foot. One of the most interesting cases of this kind, is related in Mr. C. Bell’s System of Operative Surgery. I have seen a very striking example of it, from a curious cause.—A Russian surgeon thought he might destroy a ball which was lodged in the condyle of the femur, by pouring quicksilver into the wound. Upon amputation of the leg, a tumour was found in the peroneal nerve, with a quantity of quicksilver in it. The patient, who was a Russian General, got well, but suffered long after, from the same nervous feelings which he had had, previous to the operation: the nerve was, in all probability, irritated higher up. Before dissecting off the skin from the leg, we should examine the parts in the ham ; and then we shall be able to form some idea of the benefit which Mr. Hunter con- ferred upon surgery, in performing the operation for po- pliteal aneurism, by tying the artery on the fore part of N 2