150 choroides, we shall find it inclining towards the auterior crus ot the fornix: if we then pass a curved probe, or small bougie, along the plexus, and under the anterior crus of the fornix, it will appear in the opposite ventricle. But it may be objected to this,—that the brain is so soft, that the probe would meet with no resistance, were it to be passed through the matter of the fornix. The best proof we have of the existence of a hole here, is, by blowing on one side of the crus of the fornix, for the air will then pass into the other ventricle ; or if we open the right ventricle, in a very fresh brain, and lay the head on the same side, the water will flow from the left ventricle through the hole. In cases of hydrocephalus, we shall sometimes find the hole large enough to admit the point of the finger. This opening has been, by some, called the Foramen of Monro; but it is more generally called the foramen commune anterius, — as we shall afterwards find, that it also communicates with the third ventricle, and with the Infundibulum. The fornix may now be cut at the point under which the probe has been passed, and may then be turned hack; but as the substance of the fornix is very soft, it should be strengthened by putting a piece of paper, of the same shape, upon it. When the fornix is thrown back as far as the point where it diverges, we may perceive upon it* lower surface, while lines, something in the form of the strings of a lyre; from this appearance, the lower part has got the name of iyra, We shall now have a complete view of the plexus choroides of each side, united together by a membrane which is generally called velum interpositum, or velum vasculosum,—or, from its similarity to the mesentery of the intestines, mesentery of the plexus choroides. In the fresh and sound brain, the plexus and its velum will pre- vent us from seeing any of the thalamus which is below it; but it generally happens, that the plexus of each side falls towards the middle, so as to expose a part of both thalami. If we examine the middle of the plexus, we shall see two veins passing backwards, to unite and form a larger one,—the vena Galeni. We may trace this vessel back, by making a horizontal cut, on the level of the velum, quite to the occiput, so as to remove all the remaining parts of the fornix and corpus callosum : the vein will then be seen entering into the fourth sinus of the dura mater, or torcular hierophiei, which is just at the union between the falx and tentorium.