270 cornea betwixt the finger and thumb, we shall feel that it is composed of several lamina;, between which, there is a cellular structure, filled with a pellucid fluid. If we squeeze the ball of the eye, before the cornea is cut off, it will appear opaque,—probably in consequence of the relative position of the cells being changed. When the pressure is taken ofF, the eye will again appear clear ; this explains the immediate good effect of puncturing the cornea, when there is effusion into the anterior chamber.—This operation is frequently performed on horses. The cornea may be separated into distinct Iamina2; but this will be more easily done after it has been macerated some time ;—we shall then be able to discover, besides the proper lamina;, a coat, upon the external surface of the cornea, which appears to be the continuation of the tunica conjunctiva,—and another, on the inner surface, which has sometimes been described as a capsule of the aqueous humour. This last is sometimes called, from its discoverer, Tunica PFrisbcrgii. It would be inconvenient to examine the structure of the sclerotic, at present: we may defer it until we finish the other parts, or examine it, in another eye. We shall find that it is not lamellated, but fibrous. The cornea being removed, the iris will be seen.—It is almost needless to remark, that the shape of the iris in the sheep, is very different from that of man. The cut edge of the sclerotic should now be seized with the forceps. The point of the scissars is then to be gently insinuated under it,—or it will be better to pass an ivory or silver probe under Ihe edge of the sclerotic, to the extent of a quarter of an inch, add then to gently move it round the circle ; this will separate the connections between the sclerotic aud ligamentdm ciliare, which is the name given to the part whicli connects the choroid and iris. The sclerotic may then be cut, so as to expose the outer part of the choroid : this is to be done, by first passing one blade of the scissars cautiously between the two coals, and then inclining the eye to one side, that the weight of the humours may so drag on the choroid, as to facilitate the separation. After having removed a small portion of the sclerotic, it will be well to put the saucer into a flat basin, or dish, with as much water in it, as will cover the eye. The whole of the sclerotic need not be removed, but only as much as will exhibit the external appearance of the choroid. A number of small nerves anil vessels will be