281 B n 3 METHOD OF MAKING CERTAIN PREPARATIONS' OF THE EYE. It ■will be very useful to preserve some human eyes, to show the relative situation of the parts : for this purpose, the eyes must be very fresh. A student will find it difficult to imitate some of the pre- parations which are preserved in anatomical museums; but any one may make such dissections, as will give a ge- neral idea of the anatomy of the parts, and be of use ia planning operations on the eye. If we remove all the muscles, &c. from the eye-ball, and cutoff about one-third of the cornea, and then insinuate Lhe blade of the scissars between the ciliary ligament and the sclerotic, that we may cut off about a third of the sclerotic, the choroid, and its connection with the iris, will be shown : this forms a very good preparation. Another eye may be prepared, so far in the same manner;—it is to be completed, by cutting away the portion of the choroid corresponding to the scle- rotic, so as to expose the retina; but in attempting to do this, we shall often be foiled. A third preparation may be made, nearly in the same manner; but in it, we should re- move the retina. This last preparation will be very useful ; for not only will one half of lhe cornea,—the size of the anterior cham- ber,—the ligamentum ciliare,—the iris,—and the pupil, be shown, but also the situation of the lens and ciliary pro- cesses, and the vitreous humour, will all be distinctly seen. As soon as such a dissection is made, the eye should be put into proof spirit. By this, however, both the lens and the capsule of the vitreous humour, will be made opaque. The view of the parts in this section, will prove, that occulists who say they have put the cataract into the pos- terior chamber, must be ignorant of anatomy.—The pro- per place for the introduction of the needle, in couching, so as to avoid the ciliary processes, will be evident. In considering the subject of couching, there is a point of great importance, which may be understood in the dissec- tion of even a sheep’s eye ; viz. the possibility of the lens and vitreous humour being both turned round in the at- tempt to couch. When this happens, total blindness may be the consequence, as the nervous matter of the retina may be destroyed by the displacement of the vitreous hu- mour.