94 Use. These two last muscles assist the maximus, and, as their siise indicate, they are muscles of the trunk. They more the trunk forward by a succession of actions. N. B. The Psoas and Iliacus have been described at page 32. Pyriformis. Or. From the 2d, 3d, and 4th portions of the sa- erum. A few lleshy fibres from the os ilium. It passes out of the pelvis along with the posterior crural nerve. In. By a round tendon, into the root of the trochanter major. Use. To roll the thigh, and twist the body forward, on the ball of the great toe. N. B. The COCCYGEUS has been described with the muscles of the perineum, at page 73. Obturator Internes. Or. The os pubis and ischium, where they form the foramen thyroideum; and from the obturator ligament, a flattened tendon passes out of the pelVis, between the posterior sacro-ischiatic ligament and tuberosity of the os ischium; it passes over the capsular ligament of the thigh bone, where it is enclosed, as in a sheath, by the gemini muscles. In. The pit at the root of the trochanter major. Use. To- roll the thigh bone outwards. Gemini,.or Gemellus Superior and Inferior. Or. The Superior, from the spinous process; the Inferior, from the tuberosity of the os ischium ; and from the sacro-ischiatic ligament. (They are united by a tendinous and fleshy membrane, over which the ten- don of the obturator internus muscle plays.) In. The cavity at the root of the trochanter major, on each side of the tendon of the obturator internus, to which they adhere. Use. The same as the last. Quadratus Femoris. Or. The outside of the tuberosity of the os ischium, (runs transversely.) In. The intertrochanteral line or ridge. Use. To roll the thigh outwards. Obturator Externus. Or. Fleshy, from the lower part of the os pubis and ischium ; surrounds the foramen thyroideum. A number of its fibres, arising from the membrane which fills np that foramen, are collected, like rays, towards a centre, and pass outwards round the root of the cervix of the os femoris. In. By a strong tendon, into the cavity at the root of the tro- ehanter major. Use. To roll the thigh bone obliquely outwards. MUSCLES ON THE FORE PART OF THE THIGH. Tensor Vagin® Femoris, or Fascialis. Or. The external part of the anterior superior spinous process of the os ilium. In. Into the fascia which covers the outside of the thigh, and through it into the outside of the knee. Use. It is an abductor^