115 trunk very cautiously with the forceps and scissars, for large branches will be found passing off from each side of it, and principally from its iliac side : these branches are intimately connected with those of the great vein and the anterior crural nerve, which, however, in this first dissec- tion, may be all removed. The order in which the great branches arise, is so very irregular, that it is absolutely necessary here, as in many other parts of the body, to name the branches according to the parts to which they are going,—not by the order of their coming off from the main trunk. At about two inches from the edge of Poupart’s liga- ment, we shall probably find the great artery dividing into two large branches. The one, which passes deep, and rather to the outside, is the vessel which generally gives off the principal brauches to the thigh ; it is called the proper femoral, or the profuxda. The other is the con- tinued trunk of the femoral, which, after giving off’ a very few branches, passes into the ham, and there divides into the arteries, for the supply of the parts below tho knee. The dissection of the superficial artery should be made first. It may be traced as far down as the part where it perforates the tendon of the adductor magnus: in this course there are only some small branches given to the muscles which are close to it; but while it is perforating the tendon of ihe triceps, it gives off an artery, which, though not large, ia very important in a surgical view,—• the AN ASTOMOTICUS MAGNUS. We may now return to the dissection of Lhe branches of the profunda. And here I can only repeat, that to ex- pose these branches, we must remove the parts that arc closely connected to them, with the forceps and scissarsi The two first arteries which we should look for, are the CIRCUMFLEXA EXTERNA aild CIRCUMFLEX A INTERNA. The first will be generally found going oft' from the upper and outer part of the profunda, or from the mam trunk, im- mediately before it divides; it then passes under the rec- tus muscle, towards the outside of the hip: while passing under the rectus, it generally gives off a branch which runs along the vastus externus to the outside of tho knee,—this is the Ramus Externus Descendens Longus. The internal circumflex passes off opposite to this, and immediately dips under the pectinalis, to supply the heads of the deep muscles at the joiut, and to inosculate with the branches of the obturator artery. This is more pro- perly the artery of the joiut, than the external circumflex.