146 generally a little thickened. To show it, in all cases it is only necessary to make such a puncture on the surface, as will admit the point of the blow-pipe,—the air will raise it in the form of vesicles. It is difficult to trace this mem- brane to all the parts of the brain that it is said, to go to. It is easy to trace it over the surface, passing from one convolution to another, without dipping between them, as the pia mater will be found to do. But it is said to be reflected on the inner surface of the dura mater, so as to give it its glistening smooth appearance; and it is also, by the French theorists described as passing into the ventricles, so as to cover their internal surface.—When the base of the brain is exposed, the membrane will be | seen to be much thicker at that part. The next membrane, the pia mater, is so distinctly seen through the last, that they have often been confound- ed. We see it loaded with arteries and veins,— and when we pull upon a portion of it, we shall find that it goes down into the substance of the brain, and that it passes between the convolutions.—In the course of our dissection, we shall discover the pia mater in many parts of the interior of the brain,—it being, in fact, the cellular membrane which supports the pulp, and carries the ves- sels into the several parts. We should now tear this membrane from one of the hemispheres, so as to show the convolutions. The surface of these convolutions will appear grey ; but if we cut a slice off, we shall then see that the interior is of a while I colour *. from this circumstance, the surface has been called the cineritious, or cortical part,—and the in- ternal, the CENTRAL, or MEDULLARY. We should now separate the two hemispheres gently from each other, and then, by looking down between j them, we shall see a white mass,—and if the arteries have been injected, two arteries will be perceived upon it: this ii white mass has been called the corpus callosum, or, from the term commissure being given to the points of ! union between the several parts of the brain, it has been ! called commissura magna, as being the largest. As we have nothing particular to remark in the struc- > ture of the upper part of the hemispheres, they may be : gradually sliced down,* until we reach the level of the t corpus callosum. In making these cuts, the relative dis-' * In slicing the brain, we shall find that it will be done with more ease, if we occasionally dip the knife into water