Coraco Brachialis. Or. The coracoid process of the scapula, adhering in its descent to the short head of the biceps. In. The middle of the internal part of the os humeri, near the Ori- gin of the third head of the triceps. Use. To raise the arm upwards and forwards. The muscles which move the fore arm, are exceedingly simple ; as the form of the joint between the humerus and bones of the arm, is such, as to admit only of two mo- tions, viz. flexion and extension. The Flexor muscles are two,—Biceps and Bracliialis Inlernus : the Extensors are also two,—Triceps and Anconeus. TABLE OF THE MUSCLES WHICH MOVE THE FORE ARM ON THE HUMERUS. Flexors.—Biceps Flexor Cubiti. Or. By two heads : 1. Ten- dinous, from ihe upper edge of the glenoid cavity of the scapula. This tendon passes over the head of the os humeri within the capsule, and, in its descent without the joint, runs in a groove on the bead of the os humeri, and covered by a membranous ligament that proceeds from the capsule and adjacent tendons. 2. The second, and shorter head, arises from the coracoid process of the scapula, in common with the coraco brachialis muscle. In. 1. By a strong round tendon, into the tubercle near the upper end of the radius; 2. and, by a lateral slip of fascia, into the sheath of I the fore arm. Brachialis Internus. Or. The middle of the os humeri, at > each side of the insertion of the deltoid muscle, covering all the in- ferior and fore part of this bone ; adheres to the ligament of the joint. In. The coronoid process of the ulna. • Extensors.—Triceps Extensor Cubiti. Or. By three heads ; the first and longest, from the inferior costa of the scapula, near its cervix. The second head, from the back part of the os humeri, under the great tubercle. The third* arises by an acute beginning from the back and inner part of the humerus, and continues its origin all down the bone. These three heads unite lower than the insertion of the teres major, and cover the whole posterior part of the humerus; from which, they receive additional origins in their descent. In. The olecranon, and partly into the condyles of the os humeri, adhering to the ligament. ♦ The third head is sometimes called brachialis hIhimb, aiuUtheo the two first heads are described as forming a biceps extensor,-.