290 The dissection of the duct of the parotid should now be made, and its situation accurately marked, that we may *go; but as he found it difficult to understand why the eye should be also now affected, he begged that I would see the patient with him. Ora noticing the action of the muscles, w hich I did while the lady was sitting at luncheon, I observed that no actwn was deficient while she was eating, but that there was a distinct paralysis when she smiled, or laughed; however, I was a little puzzled, to see the muscles of the mouth so distinctly affected, and not those of the eye ; because I had found in all the experiments, in w hich the portio dura w as cut, and in the cases where the paralysis had been pro- duced by an inflamed gland under the ear, that both the muscles of the eye and of the mouth were affected at the same moment. But on farther inquiry, the cause of the difl'erence in this case, was explained ; for I found, that the inflammation which had been the original source of the injury to the nerve, was confined to the space above the molar teeth, so that the branches of the nerve which go to the muscles round the eye, were not included in the disease. The twitching of the eye-lid, was quite different from that of the muscles of the mouth. It was only that slight spasmodic affection, which is so common in hysterical girls, and would not have been noticed, had it not been supposed to have some connection with the state of the mouth. This young lady told me, that, to a certain degree, she could command the action of the muscles ; but, that she found it impossible to overcome it, on her entry into a room w'here she was obliged to accost strangers. There are certain tumours under the ear, which are of so dan- gerous a nature, that it is necessary to remove them, without taking into account the paralysis consequent upon cutting the branches of the portio dura; still, there may be cases, where the patient will not thank the surgeon for ridding him of a trifling tumour, at the expense of having, ever after, a ludicrous tw'ist of the face. Very lately, a gentleman wished me to cut out a small harmless tumour, which was situated immediately upon the branch of the nerve which goes to the side of the mouth. But on putting the question to him, whether he would run the risk of having the side of his mouth paralyzed, or retain the small tumonr, which1 might almost be concealed by his whisker,— he chose to submit to the dis- figurement produced by the tumour, as probably the lesser of the two. The ridiculous effect which is produced on the expression of a monkey, by cutting its portio dura, would almost induce one to re- commend the operation to some of our comedians,—particularly after the extraordinary success of one actor, who, from the peculiar twist of his mouth and eye, appears to have a paralysis of the portio dura of one side. I think it is hardly possible for surgeons, now, to propose to cut the branches of the V11' or the VII1*1, indiscriminately, for the disease called Tic Douloureux.- There is reason to believe, that the dis- ease is seldom or ever in the portio dura,—and the question of the propriety of cutting the V*, is very doubtful.