72 us to suspect that there is still another stricture: if, with this idea, we persevere in pushing the instrument on, we •hall certainly do irreparable mischief to the patient. The urine is very often obstructed in old men, either by general or partial enlargement of the prostate. But as this disease cannot be understood by the appearance of the natural parts, and as it is too important a subject to be treated of in so short a manner as the limits of this book would permit,—I shall only remark, that I think I have proved, by repeated dissections, that the obstruction is seldom, or never, produced by the enlargement of the third lobe, as is generally supposed. Some years ago I wrote a paper on this question, which is published in Mr. Bell’s Surgical Observations. As in all cases of irritation of the urethra, or bladder, the muscular coat of the latter becomes thickened, we must not he surprised if we should, in the dissection of the body of a person who had died of stricture, discover the bladder in this state,—and even having cysts communi- cating with it; for when the muscular coat is thickened, k it very frequently occurs, that a part of the internal coat is protruded between the fibres,—and sometimes to such an extent, as to give the appearance of a second bladder. I may also observe, that in the examination of such bodies, we must not express astonishment if we discover the ureters to be thickened and inflamed, and the kidneys to be lobulated and full of matter; for it follows,almost in- variably, that when the bladder is inflamed, the kidneys and ureters become also affected. Table of the Muscles. The muscles which are seen in the first dissection of the perineum, are—- Erector Penis. Or. The tuberosity of the os ischium : run- B;na- upwards, it embraces the crus of the penis. In. The sheath of the crus penis. EJACULATOR. Or. ,The crura penis and body of the penis, and the triangular ligament: the inferior fibres run more transversely, and the superior descend in au oblique direction. In. In the middle of the bulb and spongy body of the urethra ; and by the fibres of both sides uniting, the bulb is completely en- closed. It is connected behind with the fibres of the sphincter ani and transversalis muscles ; these accordingly co-operate in their action. Transversalis Perinf.i. Or. The tuberosity of the os ischium, below the origin of the erector: it runs transversely. IN. The ejaculator seminis, and fore part of the sphincter atii.