17 C 3 ness. This kind of hernia does not take place often, bill* in proportion to our limited opportunities, it has occurred to us more frequently than it appears to have done to Mr. Cooper. The dissection of the parts connected with femoral hernia may now he made. We have already described the first steps of the dissection. It is absolutely necessary that the limbs be kept forcibly separated from each other, and that the handle of the knife only, should be used in re- moving the glands, as we are very apt to destroy some of the connections of the fasciae, if we use a sharp knife while the limbs are lyiDg straight. When the glands are re- moved, we may see the manner in which the fascia lata is connected to the Poupart ligament; how it dips down to- wards the femoral vessels, and how it mounts up again to cover the pectinalis muscle. -The part of the fascia lata which dips down towards the femoral vessels, will have a crescentic form ; but this will not be so distinct as is repre- sented in many plates, particularly in those of Mr. Hey, unless we cut through the connection which there is be- tween the fascia lata and the sheath of the vessels1; but by doing so, we would destroy the natural view. This part generally receives the name of superficial crescentic arch ;* for we shall afterwards see a deep one. It is in this stage of the dissection that we can understand how some surgeons have described the femoral hernia as situated under the fascia lata, while others have described it as lying above the same fascia; in truth, the femoral hernia is above one portion of the fascia lata and below another, for it is under this part which is called crescentic arch, and above the portion which covers the pectineal muscle. If we pull away the lymphatics which are passing from the inguinal glands to those of the pelvis, we shall see a number of holes in a membrane which connects the lower edge of the Poupart ligament to the pectineal portion of the fascia lata: this part we have already noticed. Though it will not appear as a distinct fascia in our dissection, still it has received the name of fascia cribriformis from Mr. Cooper ; and, as an addition to our stock of names, we have, from M. Cloquet, septum crurale. It must be very carefully examined, for it is the only * Femoral ligament, of Mr. Hey; falciform process of the fascia lata, of Mr. Allan Burns. All these parts are accurately described in the folio edition of Mr. Charles Bell’s Dissections, published in 1799.—He did not give them names.