2G3 by continuing the cut, in the same line, through the ethmoid and sphenoid bones. We may then see the mucous membrane which lines alt the interior parts of the nose, viz. the Schneiderian mem- brane ; the inferior spongy bone; the labyrinth formed by the ethmoid bone; the communication between the cells of the frontal, ethmoid, and sphenoid bones: imme- diately above the inferior spongy bone, we shall see the opening into the antrum of Highmore; and below the bone, the passage to the lachrymal sac. On the other sec- tion, the septum narium will be seen to be formed by the union of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid with the vomer, through the medium of a cartilage. By look- ing to the posterior part, we can understand the relation of the passage between the back part of the nostrils and the throat—the posterior nares; and, with a little care, we may discover the Eustachian tube, which leads into the cavity of the tympanum. We may now take an opportunity of examining the ge- neral anatomy of the ear. The following description of the manner of dissecting the ear, will perhaps enable a young student to acquire a general idea of the relative position of the parts com- posing the organ.—To comprehend the minute anatomy, requires more opportunities than a dissecting-room gene- rally affords. The muscles of the cartilages of the external ear, are generally so small, that unless the dissection be made in a very fleshy ear, as in that of a negro, it will be impossible to find them; but those running from the head to the ear, may always be easily found.* * The following table of these muscles is added :— MUSCLES LYING ON THE CARTILAGES OF THE EXTERNAL EAR. Helicis Major. Or. The upper and acute part of the helix, anteriorly. In. Into its cartilage, a little above the tragus. Helicis Minor. Or. The inferior and anterior part of the helix. In. The crus of the helix, near the fissure in the cartilage, oppo- site to the concha. Tragicus. Or. The middle and outer parts of the eoncha, at the root of the tragns. In. The point of the tragus.