130 to guard the peritoneum ; you have the epigastric artery on the inside, still involved in its cellular membrane: you may now expose the artery. “ Feeling the artery full, and pulsating under your finger, you think it bare; when a little consideration should remind you, that it is not.* * It is still covered with its sheath, and filaments of the fascia strengthen that sheath : and here I must again observe, that the safest way is, to scratch the sheath, directly over the center of the artery ; to cut at the side of the artery is dangerous. The vein lies close by the inside of the artery, and, in some measure, below it. The vein is on the inside, the anterior crural nerve on the outside.+ Therefore, I advise you to scratch, until you can pass your probe, or blunt hook, through the sheath and ligamentous fibres which directly cover the artery. “ When you have exposed the proper coat of the artery, make the assistant raise the thigh as much as the circum- stances of the tumour will admit; then you will be able to grasp the artery betwixt the thumb and the fore-finger; you will find it so loose, that you will experience no dif- ficulty in passing the needle under it. It is struggling to thrust the blunt needle through the sheath and fibres of the fascia, and neglecting to raise the limb, that makes this part of the operation tedious. “ One firm ligature of four threads, waxed and oiled, will be sufficient; it is not necessary to tie the artery twice, nor, consequently, to cut it across.^” be entangled in the reflection of the vas deferens, and you will make the peritoneum thin as a cobweb, by separating the cellular tissue of the cord from it. * Mr. Abernethy says, “ The pulsation of the artery made it clearly distinguishable from the contiguous parts, but I could not get my finger round it with the facility which I expected.” “ After in- effectual trials to pass my finger beneath the artery, I was obliged to make a slight incision on either side of it, in the same manner as is necessary when it is taken up in the thigh, where the fascia which binds it down in its situation is strong.” This double incision is not necessary in either of these cases ; and, I apprehend, very dangerous in the present instauce. t The external iliac vein is close to the inside of the artery. The anterior crural nerve is quite removed from the artery. $ Mr. John Bell and Mr. Abernethy, and Mr. Maunoir of Geneva, have been advocates for tying the artery twice, and cutting it betwixt the ligatures. It is a practice which may have advantages; but the idea that they thereby made the artery as secure as when tied in am- putation, was undoubtedly a great mistake.