20 ous names; by many surgeons it has been called the crural sheath,* by others, the sheath of the vessels: and, conse- quently, when the latter describe femoral hernia, they say that it passes along the sheath of the vessels; hut this lan- guage is very incorrect, and leads to great confusion, for the proper sheath of the vessels is a distinct part, formed by cellular membrane, which surrounds them through their whole course from the sacrum to the point where the profunda is given off. M. Cloquet gives the description of this part too much in the spirit of a modern discoverer of fasciae and rings. He says, that we have here a part analogous to the ingui- nal canal ; that this (the crural canal) has a superior and inferior opening. The inferior is the opening by which the saphaena passes through the fascia lata to enter the femoral vein.” Although this opening is represented in all the plates of the anatomy of the groin, given by our own authors, yet we have not described it, because we think that it is not of importance in considering femoral hernia,—not on account of its situation, but because the connection which there is between the fascia superficial^ and the lymphatic glands, prevents a femoral hernia from passing so low down. There are no cases given by En- glish authors, of hernije protruding through this hole, but M. Cloquet says, that he and M. Bedard have seen many examples of it. We shall now describe the layers of fasciae which may be found in a case of femoral hernia, and what are the most probable causes of strangulation. The sac of a femoral hernia passes into the depression, which, in the natural state of the parts, is closed by the cribriform fascia. We have seen that there are a number of holes in this fascia. One of these holes may be enlarged, several may be thrown into one, or, what is more common, a small gland, which is partly within, and partly without the pelvis, may be pushed forward by the hernia. The hernia will be then lodged in the hollow below the cres- centic arch ; if small, it may continue there, but when it increases in size, it turns up upon Poupart’s ligament. The cause of this, we have already shown. In its passage from the abdomen, the hernia will have the epigastric * There is no crural ring in the natural state of the parts, but rt may be felt during an operation ; and a distinct ring may be shown in a preparation, by removing the whole of the herniary sac. Such an appearance is very well shown in Mr, Cooper’s plates^