tube. If this be done with a very fine saw, it will pro 1 206 Spoon-Wee Cavity ; upon the extremity of which, the ten- don of the muscle is reflected, and then runs to the long process ol the malleus. This muscle is called the tensor tympani. From the opposite side of the Eustachian tube and glenoid fissure, another muscle passes, to be inserted into the malleus: it is the laxatoh tympani. From the upper part of the tympanum, there is a third muscle, which runs to the short process, and is called the supe- rior, or external muscle;—but this last, is denied by many to be of the nature of muscle. There is still a very small muscle attached to the stapes,—it is called sta- pedius, and takes an origin from the interior of a little eminence, absurdly called pyramid. The corda tympani nerve, which has already been described at page 257, will be seen running across the membrane of the tympanum, and over the long process of the malleus. Although these muscles are now mentioned, it is not possible to see them all in this stage of the dissection, as the tympanum has not yet been sufficiently opened ; but to expose it more, at present, for the purpose of exhibiting these muscles, would endanger the parts composing the labyrinth. It is almost impossible for any one but an experienced dissector, to exhibit all the parts of the labyrinth in one view. To do this, he must have a knowledge of each part? and to expose them, he requires a variety of little instruments, as small chisels, files, and saws; but it is possible for any one to make such a dissection, as will give | a general idea of the relative situation of the parts. About a quarter of an inch posterior to the meatus intemus, a ■ ridge will be seen crossing the petrous portion: if thisi j surface be filed down, a cavity will be opened.; viz. the su- perior semicircular canal. This canal may be easily ft followed, by putting an awl into its cavity, and then, aa with a lever, breaking up the bone: by tracing it to- wards the cavity of the tympanum, we shall show itsj communication with the horizontal canal; by tracing ita[' other end, we shall open the internal canal: but it is! I very difficult to follow these two last canals through their §{ whole extent. The vestibule may be opened by break-i ing the bone with a small chisel, immediately anterior! t© the union of the superior and external semicircular canals,—or a better mark, is the base of the stapes;—but iri M making the cut, we are very apt to break up the foramen f1 ovale. To show the cochlea, a slanting cut should be > \ t made across the meatus internus, towards the Eustachian Babiy pass through the mqdiolus, so as to give a view ol