142 As it will be very inconvenient for both students to dis- sect the neck at the same time, they must either dissect at d.fferent hours, or one must pursue the dissection of the arm, while the other is engaged with the neck. But if both arejoung dissectors, the best plan will he, for the one to assist the other, as the dissection of the neck is very difficult for a beginner. The muscles on the fore part of the chest should be next dissected, and then the thorax may be opened, so that a general view of the viscera may he given; after which, the heart and lungs, with the larynx. See. should be removed, and put into water, for future examination. At this stage of the dissection, the students who are dis- secting the lower half, will probably be prepared either to make a section of the body, or to turn it. The superficial muscles of the back are then to be dissected. When these are finished, the arm should he separated from the trunk, by cutting through those muscles of the back and chest, which are inserted into the scapula, and by either dislocating the clavicle from the sternum, or by cutting it through the middle. The arm should be wrap- ped up in a damp cloth, and laid in a cool place, until the dissection of the other part is finished. The deep muscles of the back and of the fore part of the neck, should now be dissected. The vertebrae are then to be divided, so that the ligaments may be examined. If the student does not wish to preserve the scull, he should make such sections of it, as will enable him to show the general anatomy of the nose, ear, &c. But before he examines these, or dissects the ligaments, he should allow' them to remain in water for some time: in the mean time he may dissect the muscles of the arm. After the muscles of the arm are dissected, he should examine the ligaments. In the second dissection of the upper half of the body, the arteries (having been previously injected) should be traced, with some of the principal nerves and veins. Dur- ing this dissection, the student should attend to the prac- tical points of surgery; but another body, in which the vessels are uuinjected, should also be devoted to this examination. In the third dissection, the brain and nerves should be more particularly studied.