273 quarter of an inch from the margin of the cornea.—We must not injure the choroid, butseparate the sclerotic from it. In separating these two coals, the iris will probably ad- here to the sclerotic and cornea, so that when it is torn up, the ciliary ligament will be divided into two portions: the ciliary processes will be seen projecting from that part of the ligament which remains attached to the cho- roid. At the first view, the apices of the processes will appear to adhere to the capsule of the lens,—and so they have been described by many; but that they do not, may be proved, by blowing a little air between them and the lens: this will also show, that, at their bases, they appear to adhere to the capsule,—but they do not actually touch it, for there is interposed between them and the capsule, a membrane, presently to be described (Tunica Vasculosa Retime). This part of the dissection is very difficult, and ought to be done while the parts are under water. There is still another method of giving a view of the ciliary processes.—This is, to make a section of the ante- rior part only of the eye, at the distance of half au inch posterior to the margin of the cornea. The lens will be seen lying on the iris, and beneath its transparent margin, a black circle, which is formed by the ciliary processes. To examine the processes still farther in this section, the lens may be removed, by cutting the posterior part of its capsule. If the parts be now put in water, and the processes be scraped with the handle of the knife, the pigment which covers them will be washed away, and then they will have the form of a circle of white striae, pro- jecting from the choroid, and passing behind the iris. As the retina is a very delicate part, considerable care is requisite in preparing it for demonstration. An eye should be properly fixed in the saucer, and the choroid prepared as has already been described ; then, while the eye is under water, a part of the choroid should be torn off,—the white opaque retina will then be seen. But there is another coat between this and the choroid, which, how- ever, is so delicate a membrane, that it is almost impos- sible to see it with the naked eye ; but when the glass globe is inverted over the dissection, we shall then see it, float- ing between the choroid and nervous pulp of the retina : this is the membrane described by Dr. Jacob, of Dublin.* * This membrane was shown to me by Dr. Jacob, while I was on a visit to Dublin, in 1818.—Since that time, I have always demon- strated it by the name of Tunica Jacobi, in honour of my friend, who discovered it.