170 sufficiently descriptive of their course,—thyreo auytk- O I O E U S, THYREO E PIGLOTTIDEUS, ARYTENO EPIGLOTTI- oeus. The only muscle which is on the fore part of the larynx, is the c.rico thyroideus,—which, in the first dissec- tion o-f the neck, was seen passing from the cricoid to the th yroid cartilage. We may now remove the small muscles, so as to show the cartilages and their ligaments,—which are named ac- cording to the cartilages which they unite together. TABLE OF THE MUSCLES OF THE JAW, AND OF THE DEEP MUSCLES OF THE THROAT. Temporalis. Or. The semicircular ridge of the lower and. lateral parts of the parietal bone ; 2. the pars squamosa of the tem- poral bone; 3. the external angular process of the os frontis ; 4. the temporal process of the sphenoid bone; 5. it is covered by an aponeurosis, from which it also takes an origin. The muscle pass- ing under the jugum, has for its In. The coronoid process of the lower jaw, which it grasps with a strong tendon. Use. To raise the lower jaw. Masseter. Or. 1. The superior maxillary bone, where it joins the os mala?; 2. the inferior part of the zygoma, in its whole length. In. The outside of the angle of the upright part of the lower jaw. Use. To pull up the lower jaw, for performing the grinding, or lateral motions there. Pterygoideus Internus. Or. 1. The inner and upper part of the internal plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone ; 2. the palatine bone. It fills the space between the two plates of the pterygoid process. In. The inside of the angle of the lower jaw. Use. To move the jaw laterally. Pterygoideus Externus. Or. 1. The outside of the external plate of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone ; 2. part of the upper maxillary bone adjoining. In. The outside of the angle of the upright part of the lower jaw. Use. To pull up the lower jaw, for performing the grinding, or lateral motions there. Constrictor Isthmi Faucium. Or. The side of the tongue, near its root; from thence running upwards, within the anterior arch of the fauces. In. The middle of the velum pendulum palati, at the root of the uvula. It is connected with its fellow.