155 to the nodus, we shall see two little white bodies, the corpora albicantia, or candicantia : these, by further investigation, will be found to be connected with the an- terior part of the fornix. Immediately anterior to these, there is a reddish grey body (the infundibulum) ; but it will not be found hollow, as its name would imply. Be- tween this and the optic nerves, a small square portion of grey substance may be observed, which will be found to be the anterior part of the floor of the third ventricle; the remainder of the floor is made by the corpora albi- cantia and a portion of medullary matter which is between the crura cerebri. If we now separate the upper part of the spinal marrow from its connection with the cerebellum, we shall see the cavity of the fourth ventricle; and by then making a vertical section of the cerebellum, we shall have a distinct view of the arbor vitas, and of the sulcus called calamus scrip- torius, which, in foetuses, and in some animals, is continued down, as a canal, through the substance of the spinal mar- row. Upon the lateral parts of the fourth ventricle, we shall see little strife, which are said to be the origins of the portio mollis. It does not require any particular rules to enable the dissector to trace the nine nerves to the parts of the brain from which they are said to arise; the filaments require only to be followed. The bulbous part of the olfactory nerve will still be visible, lying on the anterior lobe ; and upon tracing it back, it will be found to arise, by two or three filaments, near the fissura Silvii; these roots may be generally traced to the corpus striatum. In tracing each of the optic nerves back from their union, we shall see a flattened band, called tractus opticus, turning round the crus cerebri, to take its origin from the thalamus opticus. The motor oculi requires no dissection ; it is seen to arise from between the crus cerebri and nodus cerebri. The trochlearis is so small, that we frequently destroy it in removing the brain from the scull. When preserved, it may be traced, past the crura cerebri and cerebelli, to arise from the lateral parts of the fourth ventricle. The trigeminus cannot be mistaken, as it is the only nerve arising at the point of union between the crus cerebri and cerebelli. The ab- ducens is also easily understood, for it arises from the point of union between the nodus cerebri and the spinal marrow. We may see a number of small vessels entering into the substance of the brain here, which, when pulled out, show why the French anatomists have described