280 direct, from around the foramen opticum, to the ball of the eye,—their combined tendons forming, on the anterior part of the ball, an expansion of tendinous membrane, which is described as a coat, common to the ball of the eye and to the muscles;—it is called the tunica albuginea. The muscles of the eye may easily he recollected, for there are only seven in all; of which six belong to the ball of the eye, and one belongs to the upper eye-lid. The muscle of the eye-lid is called levator palpebrje superioris.—It arises from the upper edge of the foramen opticum, and is inserted into the cartilage of the eye-lid. The six muscles are divided into the four recti and the two oblique- The four recti arc distinguished from each other, by the terms levator, depressor, abductor, and adductor : while the two oblique are named,—the one, external, or inferior; the other, internal, or superior; or, from its passing through the pully, trochlearis. All the four recti arise from around the foramen op- ticum, and are inserted into the sclerotic, at nearly equal distances from the cornea. The internal oblique also arises from the edge of the foramen opticum;—its course and its insertion have already been described. The external oblique cannot be forgotten, as it is the only muscle, which arises from the outer edge of the orbit. The dissection of the nerves of the orbit, has already been described at page 255. The dissection of the arteries may be made at the same lime that those of the brain are examined ; and as the dis- section consists in merely following them from trunk to branch, I shall give only a Table of them.— Ophthalmica Cerebralis. Passing into the orbit, by the foramen opticum, gives these branches :—1. To the dnra mater and sinus ; 2. lachrymalis, which goes to the gland, after giving many branches to the periosteum, optic nerve, &c.; 3. ci- liares : three or four arteries, dignified with the distinction of inferiores, anteriores, breves, lonyioves; 4. supra orbitalis ; 5. centralis retinte ; G. acthmoidales ; 7. palbebrales ; 8. nasalis ; 9. frontalis.