182 not be able to make long incisions, as we could in dis- secting the last muscle, but we must carry the knife in a sweeping direction along each portion. In tracing the fibres towards their origin, we shall see the slips of the obliquus externus, with which they indigitate; but we shall not yet be able to follow the muscle to its insertion. Before the insertion of the serratuscan be shown, seve- ral muscles must be partially dissected, particularly the latissimus dorsi, the margin of which will be found running across the axilla;—this portion of the latissimus should be exposed as far as its insertion into the humerus, and when this is done, we shall see, that the upper and lower boundaries ofthe axilla are formed by the pecloralis major and the latissimus dorsi. A large quantity of fat and glands will be seen between the two muscles,and also many vessels and nerves,—which, though they are very important, may be cut away in the present dissection. Before tracing the latissimus dorsi, or serratus magnus, farther back, we should dissect upon the lower edge of the pectoralis major, so as to expose the margin of the PECTORALIS MINOR, OT SERRATUS MINOR ANTICUS. After a small portion of this is shown, we should raise the pectoralis major. This may be done by cutting its origins from the cartilages of the ribs, and by then carrying it towards the sternum, from which it is also to be separated, as far as to the clavicle. In doing this, we should keep all the cellular membrane attached to its lower surface, by which we shall at once clean the surface of the pectoralis minor, and, at the same time, show a considerable part of the serratus magnus. The latissimus dorsi may now be followed towards the back part of the chest, and by then removing the fat, &c. from its inner surface, we shall expose the edges of the subscapularis and teres major muscles.—These muscle* are not yet to be followed to their insertions, but by making their bellies distinct, we shall expose the insertion of the serratus magnus into the base of the scapula. The whole of the pectoralis major may now be cut away, except a small portion, which should be left at- tached to the deltoid ;—this will enable us to see the sun- clavius, which runs from the first rib to the clavicle. If we cut through the pectoralis minor, we shall have an opportunity of seeing the two sets of intercostal muscles ; for both layers are found in the middle of the chest,—the external being deficient on the anterior, j and the internal, on the posterior part of the chest.