82 The diaphragm is generally described as consisting of two muscles and an intermediate tendon. The Superior or Greater Muscle of the Diaphragm. Or. By distinct fleshy fibres : 1. from the cartilago ensiformis ; 2. from the cartilages of the seventh, and of all the inferior ribs on both sides, and ligamentum arouatum. In. From these origins, the fibres run radiated from the circum- ference to the centre of the septum, and terminate in a cordiform tendon, which forms the middle of the diaphragm, and in which the fibres from the opposite sides are inserted and interlaced. To the right of this tendinous centre there is a perforation for transmitting the vena cava. The Inferior or Lesser Muscle of the Diaphragm, Or. The second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrae, by several ten- dinous heads, of which the central and longest are called the crura. (Between the crura, the aorta and thoracic duct pass; and, on the outside of these, the great sympathetic nerves and branches of the vena azygos perforate the shorter heads.) The fibres run up- wards, and_form, in the middle, two fleshy columns, which decussate, and leave an oval space between them for the passage of the oeso- phagus and eighth pair of nerves. In. The back part of the central tendon of the diaphragm. Use. The diaphragm is the principal muscle of respiration : when it is in action, the fibres bring the septum towards a plane, by which the cavity of the thorax is enlarged ; when relaxed, it is pressed by the abdominal muscles, which, acting through the viscera, thrust it up, and compress the lungs. Quadratus Lumborum. Or. From the posterior part of the spine of the os ilium. In. Into the transverse processes of all the lumbar vertebrm ; into the last rib near the spine ; and, by a small tendon, into the side of the last vertebra of the back. Use. To move the loins to one side; to pull down the last rib ; and when the muscles of both sides act, to bend the loins forward. Psoas Parvus.. Or. The sides of the two upper vertebra; of the loins. Sends off a small long tendon, which ends thin and flat, and is IN. Into the iliac fascia and Poupart tendon. Use. To strengthen the insertion of the abdominal muscles, and prevent their yielding in the straining of the muscles of the trunk. This muscle is often wanting. Psoas Magnus. Or. 1. The body, and transverse process of the last vertebra of the back ; 2. from all those of the loins. In. The trochanter minor of the thigh bone ; and into that bone, a little below the trochanter. Use. To bend the thigh forwards, or, when the inferior extremity is fixed, to assist in bringing the body forward. Iliacus Internus. Or. 1. The transverse process of the last vertebra of the loins j. 2, all the inner lip of the spine of the ilium ;