114 the great nerve, to form inosculations with the branches* of the external iliac. We may now return to the dissection of the external iliac, which has been already traced as far as the edge of the Poupart ligament. If we hold up the flap of the abdominal muscles, and strip the peritoneum from it, we shall see the first branch, the epigastric, passing from the trunk, towards the rectus muscle ; the next, circumflexa ilii, rises about half an inch below the epigastric, and on the iliac edge of the artery ; but the obturator will be also found coming from the external iliac, in union with the epigastric, in the proportion of one in four to the number of times which it rises from the internal iliac. The main artery, after giving off these branches, passes under the ligament of Poupart; and here, instead of the name of “external iliac”, it receives that of inguinal, or COMMON FEMORAL. We shall find the arrangement of the branches which are given off from this artery before it becomes popliteal, to be very simple ; for there is oniy one series of branches to supply the great muscles, and another to encircle the joints aud to form inosculations with the other arteries. The branches which supply the muscles, are either called Perforunles or Muscular; while those which surround the joints are called Circumflexa, Articular, Recurrens, or Anastomotic. But, in making this arrangement, we must, at the same time, recollect, that the vessel which is pass- ing to supply the parts below the knee, is the principal artery in the thigh. The dissection is not to be begun in the same manner as that for the muscles:—the skin only is to be carefully removed from the groin, and then some small arteries' will be seen passing into the glands of the groin, to the scrotum, to the skin of the penis, and to the superficial parts of the abdominal muscles. Those going to the glands are called Inguinales; those to the skin of the penis and scrotum, Pudenda; Extcrme; aud those w hich, pass hack to the abdominal muscles, Epigaslrica Supcrfi- cialis and Reflexa Ilii. These small vessels are then to be held aside, aud the trunk is to be exposed by removing the cellular membrane with the forceps and scissars. The artery will be found lying upon the psoas muscle, with the great vein on its pubic side. The anterior crural nerve lies upon the iliac side of the artery, but not close upon it. There is here much difficult dissection, and the only rule that can be given for conducting it, is to trace the