95 Sartorius. Or. Tbe anterior superior 3pinous process of the os ilium ; soon grows fleshy, runs down for some space upon the rectus, • and going obliquely inwards, it passes over the vastns internus, and, : about the middle of the os femoris, over part of the triceps; it runs . down further between the tendon of the adductor inagnus and that of the gracilis muscle. IN. By a broad and thin tendon, into the inner side of the tibia, near the inferior part of its tubercle. Use. To draw the leg inward, and to bend the knee joint. Gracilis. Or. By a thin tendon, from the os pubis, near the symphysis of these two bones; soon grows fleshy, and, descending by the inside of the thigh, is In. Inner and fore part of the tibia, under the sheath of the ■ sartorius. Use. It is an adductor and flexor. Under the name of the Triceps Adductor Femoris, are com- iprehended three distinct muscles, viz. Adductor Longus Femoris. Or. On the inside of the pecti- nalis, from the upper and fore part of the os pubis, and ligament of ' the symphysis. In. The upper third of the linea aspera. Adductor Brevis Femoris. Or. The os pubis, near the sym- physis, and lower than the last muscle. In. The inner and upper part of the linea aspera, from a little t below the trochanter minor, to the beginning of the insertion of the & adductor longus. Adductor Magnus Femoris. Or. 1. From the ramus of the os ; pubis; 2. from the ramus and the tuberosity of the os ischium, as low :down as the tuberosity. In. 1. The whole length of the linea aspera ; 2. into a ridge above ; the internal condyle of the os femoris; 3. by a long round tendon (which is united to the vastus internus) into the upper part of the i-^midyle. Use of these three muscles, or triceps, to bring the thigh in- * wards and forwards, as in clinging to the saddle ; and, in some degree, i to roll the toe outwards. The pectinalis, which lies between the < adductor longus and brevis, may be classed with them. Pectinalis. Or. Broad and fleshy from the upper and anterior ; part of the os pubis, immediately above the foramen thyroideum. In. Into the anterior and upper part of the linea aspera of the oi i femoris, a little below tbe trochanter minor, by a flat and short t endon. Use. To bring the thigh upwards and inwards. QuadricepsExtensor Cruris, is composed of the four following Miuscles:— Rectus. Or. 1. The lower and anterior spinous process of the ojs ilium; 2. tendinous from the dorsum of the ilium, a little above ' he acetabulum.