G9 this examination in a patient labouring under retention of urine, I confess that my impressions have been, that it must be by chance only that all these parts can be avoided in puncturing the bladder : however, it is some relief to know, that in such a case the peritoneum will be removed to a greater distance than we would venture to push our instrument in. The peritoneum and the vasa deferentia may be consi- dered as the only parts which it is of much importance to avoid in this operation ; for it is only by those dissectors who have not attended to the practice of surgery, that much importance can be attached to the wounding of the prostate. We should now take the opportunity of practising the operation of sounding. A stone may be put into the blad- < der, through an opening in the fundus, which is to be closed, and the bladder is to be again filled with water. When the sound is in the bladder, we should try to pass it in several directions, as, round the stone, and over it, .and below it, so that we may attain some idea of the sen- sation which is given to the hand by a stone of a particu- lar shape, and in the different parts of the bladder. The : finger should be passed into the rectum, and then the ■ stone should be pressed down towards it, so that we may : see the possibility of estimating the size of a stone in the i living body, by having it between the sound and the fin- :ger. The operation of sounding is so important a step, [previous to performing the operation of lithotomy,that we should pay particular attention to it.—Indeed, by a i good surgeon, this is always considered as the most impor- Itantpartof the operation. There is an excellent plate, t demonstrative of the various positions which the stone ■ may take in the bladder, given in the Illustrations of the ■ Great Operations of Surgery. Before we open the urethra, to examine the several I points at which the catheter has been obstructed, we should ■pass one down to the sinus of the bulb. While it is held 1 there by an assistant, the urethra is to be opened, and then i the point of the instrument will be seen lodged in the sinus, i In this view,we shall see that the part of the urethra which is surrounded by the circular ligament, has so much re- : 'semblance to a stricture, that we can now easily compre- hend how it may be mistaken for one in the living body. If in pushing the instrument towards the bladder, we (depress its point, it will again be impeded : if we lay open