327 pricty of ever attempting this operation; for, in the greater number of cases, where even the artery has been neatly tied, the vessel has ulcerated above the ligature,— and this, most probably, in consequence of the very short distance that there is between the large trunks, as the passage of the blood through them, will necessarily pre- vent the formation of a clot behind the ligature,—which appears to be the principal source of the great success attending operations on the external iliac and carotid arteries. I cannot enter into the discussion of what should be done, in aneurism of the subclavian; but I shall merely hint to the student, to inquire into the pro- priety of the proposal to remove the arm.—To compre- hend the rationale of this proposal, he must take into consideration the effect which amputation of a limb, has upon the great artery. The anatomy of the artery below the clavicle, should be more interesting to the student; for the tying of it, is a more practicable operation, and has occasionally been attended with success. 1 shall here introduce the de- scription, which my friend, Mr. Smith, of the Leeds hospital, has given of the operation, which he performed on a young girl who had secondary haemorrhage from-the stump, after the arm had been torn off by machinery:—“ One assistant compressed the artery, above the clavicle ; an- other, with the baud upon the acromion process,depressed the shoulder; and a third pressed a dossil of lint in the stump, to restrain the haemorrhage. 1 then made an in- cision, from three to four inches in length, beginning about half an inch from the sternal extremity of the cla- vicle, and half an inch below it, following the course of that bone towards the shoulder. By the first incision, I divided the integuments; and by the second, the clavi- cular portion of the pectoralis major: when this retract- ed, the edge of the pectoralis minor was seen. Several • nail arteries and veins were now visible, crossing the course of the artery: these were tied, above and beloyv. before they were divided, — as the blood issuing from them, would have retarded the operation. The great vein was then seen,—and with an appearance of pulsa- tion, caused by the artery below it. The artery was care- fully separated from it, for about the third of an inch, by the handle of a scalpel; the vein was drawn to one side, by a curved probe ; a directory was then placed under the artery, to raise it a little, and a silk ligature was passed along the groove of the directory, by means of an eyed probe: the ligature was divided, and the probe with- F f 2