312 a branch, which we cannot follow to its termination, until the body is turned, or the arm separated. This will after- wards be found to run to the dorsum of the scapula ; whence it is called the dorsalis scapula;. As the main trunk is so covered by the plexus, at the ' point where it gives off the subscapularis, we shall pro- bably not at once discover the posterior circumflex; which rises close to the trunk of the subscapularis, and sometimes in union with it. After we have found this artery, we shall not be able to follow it far, in the present position of the limb ; as it passes between the long head of the biceps and humerus, to be distributed on the deltoid. Its branches will be seen, on dissecting the back part of the arm. We generally find another artery, which passes to the anterior part of the joint, rising immediately opposite to the last; it is called the anterior circumflex.—The plexus of nerves must be pulled down, to expose it. It is a small vessel, and generally runs between the tendons of the pectoralis major and the capsular ligament. We shall now have traced the main trunk fairly past the insertion-of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi ; and here its name is changed to humeral, or brachial, which it retains until it reaches the elbow. The dissection of the portion between the scapula and elbow is very easy.—If we do not wish to keep the arm and chest connected, we may now, without hurting any vessels, separate the arm from the body. Before following the trunk of the artery, we should turn the arm round, and make a superficial dissection ot the muscles lying on the scapula.* In dissecting the del- toid, several of the branches of the thoracica huineraria, and of the circumfiexa posterior, will be found. There will also, perhaps, be several branches of the supra scapu- laris (which is sometimes a prolongation of the trans- versalis colli, described at page 228), passing into the substance of the supra spinatus muscle.+ On the muscles be- low the spine, many branches of the dorsalis scapulae, aud of the subscapularis, will be found. All those arteries which * This may be done, without separating the arm from the body, by throwing the arm over the chest. t When there is this arrangement of the artery, it very seldom passes under the ligamentum posticum.— It appears to pass under ‘ the ligament, only when it arises from the subclavian, as a distinct branch, and low down. %