172 make another cut from the angle of the mouth, obliquely, towards the outer part of the jaw, so as to expose the triangularis, or depressor anguli oris. The muscles which have been named, may be fully shown by dissecting in the direction of the incisions point- ed out: but the dissection of many of the muscles of the mouth will be found very difficult, and particularly those about the chin, on account of the mixture of their fibres with the integuments into which they are inserted.* The muscles of the nose and upper lip, may now be dis- sected. A cut should be made from the inner angle of the orbit, down to the middle of the circular cut round the mouth : this will expose the fibres of the levator labii superi- oris al.eque nasi, between which, and the zygomalicus, the levator anguli oris will be found ; and if we raise the levator labii superioris alreque nasi, the levatoii pro- prius will be seen. The compressor, or dilator naris, may be exposed, by dissecting down from the cut that was made from the tip of the nose towards the last incision. There are still two muscles to be shown, viz. the su- PERBUS, or LEVATOR LABII IN FERIO R IS, aild the DE PRESSO R labii superioris. To show the superbus, wc should turn down the lower lip, and dissect the membrane from the root of the incisores. The depressor labii superioris will be found, by lift- ing the upper lip, aud raising the membrane which covers the upper incisores. TABLE OF THE MUSCLES OF THE FACE. ARRANGED IN THE ORDER IN’ WHICH THEY ARE TO BE DISSECTED. OcciPITO Frontalis. Or. The superior transverse ridge of the occipital bone, and part of the temporal bone. A tendinous web co- vers the cranium, which terminates forward in a fleshy belly (the frontal portion): this muscular portion covers the frontal bone. In. 1. Into the orbicularis palpebrarum; 2. into the skin of the eye-brows. It sends down a fleshy slip upon the nose. Use. It draws up the skin of the forehead, and raises the eye- brows. * The dissection of these muscles will be facilitated by putting a little horse hair into the mouth.