2G8 formed, we must carefully examine the human eye, and accurately mark the proportionate size and relative posi- tion of each part. It need hardly be said, that the eye-lids, and the lachry- matory apparatus, muscles, &c. must all be studied on the human body. The eye of a sheep is a very good subject for dissection ; but the eye of a pig, in some respects, more nearly re- sembles the human eye. The dissection of the eye of the horse or ox will be found very useful when we wish to examine some of the minute parts. Before endeavouring to discover the minute structure .f the eye, we should make several sections, to acquire a general knowledge of its parts. We may commence by dissecting away the muscles, &c. which are attached to the ball of the eye. When this is done, the sclerotic will be seen, with the transparent cornea attached to its anterior, and the nerve perforating its posterior part. If we puncture the cornea, the aqueous humour will escape: if we cut out a portion of the cornea, we shall see the iris, with its central hole, called the pupil. By now pressing on the ball of the eye, the lens will be pushed forward into the pupil: by scratching with the point of the knife, we shall open the capsule of the lens; by in- creasing the pressure on the ball, the lens will start through the pupil, and then the vitreous humour will appear pushed forward into the pupil. But as the capsule of the vitreous humour (tunica hyaloidea) is very different from that of the lens, the mere scratching of its anterior part will not be sufficient to evacuate the humour; but to do this, the instrument must be plunged deep into it, and be moved in several directions: by then squeezing the ball, an aqueous humour will exude. Another eye may now be cut through, at half an inch posterior to the edge of the cornea. On the anterior sec- tion, we shall see the back part of the iris, of a deep black colour: the transparent lens will be seen lying upon it. On the posterior half, we shall see the transparent vitreous humour; and looking through it, we shall probably see the inner surface of the choroid, because, in a very fresh eye, the retina, which is interposed between the vitreous humour and the choroid, is generally transparent; but per- haps some of the vessels of the tunica vasculosa retina:, may be seen, apparently on the back part of the vitreous hu- mour. When we hold up this portion of the globe, and invert it, the vitreous humour will fail out; and then the nervous matter of the retina, being exposed to the air, will