144 ternal and middle tables, we should endeavour to break through the tabula vitrea,* with the chisscl and mallet;— by proceeding thus, the dura mater will probably not be cut,—which it is very difficult to avoid, if all the tables be sawed through. Although the bone may be completely divided, it will still be very difficult to raise the scuil-cap, in consequence of the firm union which there is between it and the dura mater. This forms an important point of demonstration,—for it proves, that part of the dura mater is the internal periosteum. This is well exemplified in the scull of a child ; for there, it will be found impossible to raise the scull-cap, without, at the same time, cutting the dura mater;—even iu the adult, it is necessary to use a lever between the portions of the scull, and then to pull it. up, with some violence, before it will separate from the dura mater. When the adhesion is particularly strong, the separation may be facilitated by passing a whale-bone spatula, or the handle of the knife, between the dura mater and the bone. When the scull-cap is torn off, we shall see pits and furrows upon its inner surface,—and, on the dura mater, little fungous excrescences and vessels, corresponding to the pits and furrows in the bone. The fungi are most nu- merous on the part opposite to the sagittal suture; they are like soft warts, or pale granulations, and have beeu called glandul® pacchioni. If the arteries have been injected, the branches of the meningea media will be seen. The anterior and posterior meningeal arteries are so small, that they will not be visible, until the brain is removed. If we make a puncture with the scissars into the most superior and central part of the dura mater, we shall pierce the longitudinal sinus. If we pass a probe into this puncture, it may be pushed towards the occiput, and towards the frontal bone,—thus showing the course of the sinus. The sinus may be opened, by cutting upon the probe.— The first thing we shall observe in the sinus, is a body, ge- nerally of a white colour; but which, we shall find to be only acoagulum, that has taken the form of the sinus. The internal surface of the sinus is irregular, in conse- * It is hardly necessary for me to remind the stndeut, that, in the child, the tables of the scull are not developed; and that, in extreme old age, they are all consolidated. It is only in the adult, that the three tables are distinct.