278 We may now examine the apparatus for the secretion of the tears, and for their passage into the nose. If we pull down the upper eye-lid, and cut the cellular con- nection between it and the frontal hone, we shall discover the lachrymal gland. It will he found very difficult to inject the ducts by which the tears pass from this gland into the space between the eye-lids ; but by a careful examination, we may find eight or ten, which open upon the inner surface of the upper eye-lid. When the eye-lids are closed, a little gutter is formed, which conveys the tears to the puncta, which are small openings in each eye-lid, on little eminences at the nasal extremities of the cartilages. It is possible to rpass bristles into these openings ; and, by a little manage- ment, they may be so directed, as to pass into the sac which lies in the groove in the os unguis. If this groove be cut upon, the lachrymal sac (in which the bristles should be seen) will be opened. It will be found lined with a mucous membrane, and so large, that it will admit a common probe, and which, when slight- ly curved, may be passed from the sac, into the duct which carries the tears into the nose. There is still another secreting apparatus upon the car- tilages: it is composed of a series of small glands, which are named, in compliment to the anatomist who first de- scribed them, Jlleibomean. When the eye-lids are everted, the glands will be seen in parallel rows, like a number of small ascarides, on the surface of the cartilages, and under the conjunctiva.—Each of them opens on the margin of the eye-lid, by a separate duct. It is the inflammation of •one of these small glands, which causes the common dis- ease called Stye. In making the dissection of the eye-lids, we can easily understand the two common diseases, ectropion and en- tropion. In the worst case of ectropion, it is necessary to cut out a portion, and uuite the edges of the incision, so as to make the lid shorter. In the entropion, an operation must be performed that will make the lid longer;—a sim- !rle snip through the lid, which will be filled up bygranu- ation,will sometimes be sufficient for this. The necessity of great care in removing small tumours from the eye-lid, must be evident, when we examine the cartilages. I have seen a patient, on whom the operation of ectropian had been performed, by extracting the cartilage ; the conse- quence was, that the eye was nearly destroyed by the con- stant pressure of the orbicularis muscle. The muscles of the eye should now be dissected. We should cut through the eye-lids at their two points of i u