terminate at the point you have marked at two fingers’ breadth from the spinous process of the os iiii, measured in a direction towards the umbilicus. “ Second Incision. Having exposed the aponeurosis, or tendon ot the external oblique muscle, and observed the direction of its fibres, pass the directory into the ring, and into the spermatic passage ; taking care that the instru- ment is directly close under the tendon, and, consequently, external to the cord : slit up the tendon in the direction of its fibres. “ The Cord. The spermatic cord is now exposed. With the blunt hook, and the handle of the knife, the cord is to be raised and pressed upward and inward. In doing this, you will necessarily raise the lower edge of the obliquus interims muscle. If the patient be fat, or the aneurism prominent and high, the Wound, in this state, will be too confined ; and it will be necessary first to pass the direc- tory, and then the point of the finger, under the edge of the muscles, and to divide them in a direction upwards. The condensed cellular membrane, or fascia, which is on the lower surface of the transversalis, will generally yield to the finger. “ There will be found a soft mass, just within the Pou- part ligament; it may be mistaken for a vessel; the more especially, as the pulsation may be felt on pressing it. It is a lymphatic gland. This gland is to be left in its place. Above this, there is a soft, fatty substance, which is to be put aside with the finger and the handle of the knife ; and now, upon putting in the finger, the artery will be dis- tinctly felt. “ The space, where you feel the artery, is thus defined : 1. Below, towards the thigh, there is the Poupart liga- ment, and the internal inguinal gland. 2. On the inside, towards the pubes, you have the epigastric artery. 3. Above, and towards the ilium, there is the edge of the oblique and transversalis muscle. 4. And above, and to- wards the rectus, you have the spermatic cord. “ lou should now push up the spermatic cord and cel- lular membrane,* and you place an assistant’s finger there, * To me, it appears that there are good reasons for pushing up the spermatic cord. First, you get much easier at the artery. Secondly, you have the spermatic cord betwixt you and the peritoneum. Thirdly, if you incline, yoa may, in this direction, push the peritoneum very high, and expose the external iliac artery at its highest point; whereas, if you go above the spermatic cord, and keep it in its place, you must