123 over the quadratus femoris; and those on the outside, (the Posterior External,) rise from the great nerve, after it has emerged from under the gluteus maximus. If we now continue the dissection along the superficial part of the leg, we shall discover two branches, which unite nearly opposite to the middle of the gastrocnemius; one of these, will be found to arise from the tibial portion of the sacro-ischiatic,—the other, from the peroneal division ; they may be traced to the outer part of the tendo Achillis, where they unite with nerves from the anterior part of the foot,—whence the nerve formed by the union has re- ceived the name of communicans tibialis. To discover the origin of the cutaneous nerves which supply the fore part of the leg, it will be necessary to open the sheath of the femoral artery, immediately before it pierces the adductor maguus; there we shall see the nerve which is called saphenus longus. This may be traced under the fascia, to the inside of the knee ; here it joins the saphena vein, which it accompanies to the inner ankle. In its course, it forms connections with the cutaneous nerves on the back of the leg, and with those of the deeper nerves,—which shall he described presently. In making the dissection of the cutaneous nerves, we ! should, at the same time, attend to the distribution of the • superficial veins, which may be seen, though uninjected. All the cutaneous veins of the leg are described as forming only two trunks, viz. saphena majoh, or interna, and SAPHENA MINOR, Or EXTERNA. The saphena major may be traced from a plexus of veins on the inside and fore part of the foot; from this it passes over the inner ankle, up to the inside of the knee ; it then Hi passes upon the fascia lata to within a hand's breadth of ! Poupart’s ligament; here it perforates the fascia, and ; unites with the great femoral vein. We shall sometimes i find it divided into two branches above the knee; but these cgenerally join, before the vein perforates the fascia. The saphena minor rises from the plexus on the back uand outer part of the foot, from whicn it may be traced, !i ilong the middle of the gastrocnemius, to the ham ; here i t terminates, by uniting with the popliteal vein. Some of the superficial lymphatics may be seen in this * »tage of the dissection, but to an inexperienced eye, it will l<be very difficult to discover them. The manner of inject- ing them, will be described in a separate article ; at present, 11 shall only uotice, that these lymphatics are immediately M 2