323 The other nerves which pass out from the axillary plexus, will easily be recollected ; for there are only three which go to the integuments, and three which supply the muscles and tips of the fingers. The cutaueous nerves mustnecessarily{be traced, before the deep ones. Au incision may be made through the skin only, in the line of the biceps muscle, down to the middle of the fore arm. In dissecting the flap, towards •the chest, small nerves will be found coming through the iuterstices of the ribs; some of which, may perhaps be traced near to the elbow ; but these intercostal branches generally terminate on the skin, a little below the axilla : — and for the supply of the skin, immediately below this point, we shall find a nerve that rises from the most su- perficial part of the inner side of the plexus. As this nerve was particularly described by Wrisberg, it is called the cutaneous of Wrisberg. There is, however, some difficulty in determining, whether this should be consi- dered as a distinct nerve, or as only a branch of the internal cutaneous; which wi 11 now be seen rising from the ulnar side of the plexus.—The branches of this last nerve, will afterwards be found to be continued to the skin on the inside of the fore arm. We may now dissect off the other flap of the skin.— We shall find no branches upon it, until we come opposite to the head of the brachialis interims; and there, we shall discover some considerable branches passing into the .skin. If we trace these back towards their origin, we shall fiud that they have come from between the brachi- alis and biceps, having perforated the coraco brachialis; and that they arise from the radial, or upper side of the plexus. The principal branch, having been described by Ca9serius as the nerve which perforated the coraco bra- chialis muscle, has been called the perforans Casserii; but, from its’giving branches to the coraco brachialis and biceps, as well as to the skin, it is sometimes called the musculo-cutaneous : however, from its relative situation on the skin, it has got, more commonly, the name of EXTERNAL CUTANEOUS. The branches of the external and internal cutaneous, should now be traced to their terminations. The exter- nal, as soon as it passes from below the biceps muscle, divides into three branches upon the skin: two of which, are distributed over the supinators,—while the other passes down to the wrist. The branches of the internal cuta- neous may be traced in connection with the basilic rein;