13 but in the greater number of cases, it is sufficiently clear that the cord passes under the internal oblique, not through it. In this part of the dissection we may observe a nerve running through the internal oblique to pass on the cord,—it is the spermaticus superficialis. The next stage of the dissection is to show the relation of the transversalis to the cord. It will be very difficult to raise the internal oblique from the transversalis, if we commence the sepa- ration at the lower edge of the muscle; but by cutting through those fibres of the internal oblique, which are connected with the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium, we shall find some cellular membrane, and a branch of the artery called circumflexa ilii, lying upon the transversalis muscle, which will mark the Tine in which we are to dissect, so as to raise the internal oblique from the transversalis. The internal oblique is to be separated from the transversalis, and from its connection with Poupart’s ligament, as far as the origin of the cre- master, and it is then to be turned over towards the linea alba. The whole of the margin of the transversalis will now be seen, and we may observe that its relation to the cord is very nearly the same as that of the internal ob- lique; indeed, the tendons of the two muscles are so closely connected with each other, that it is almost impos- sible to separate them. It will be also apparent that the united tendons of these muscles, by their insertion into the linea ileo-pectinea, form the grand protection against hernia taking place through the external abdominal ring ; but when this part is weak, in consequence of the defici- ency of the tendons, that hernia which is called direct, or venlro inguinal, may take place. The muscular fibres of the transversalis are now to be very carefully detached from Poupart’s ligament, and then they are to be scraped, not cut, from the layer of condensed cellular membrane, which is called the fascia transversalis.* We have seen the cord pass through the external ob- lique, and under the margins of the internal oblique and transversalis,—and we should now see the internal ring, described by Mr. Cooper; but this ring must be made. When we pull the cord towards the groin, we see part of the cellular membrane which lies under the transversalis muscle passing down upon it in a conical form. If we cut * Fascia transversalis, of Mr. Cooper ; fascia longitudinalis, or re- flexa, of M. Cloquet; condensed cellular membrane between the pe- ritoneum and transversalis muscle, of many authors. c