334 stuffed with blood, so that, from the confusion, we pro* bably cannot see the mouth of the artery. In this state of things, the patient getting weak from loss of blood, and the vessels perversely bleeding, only when the dress- ings are applied, and stopping when they are undone, the surgeon is tempted to follow the artery with incisions, fruitless perhaps, because he is still amongst the disordered parts. He is at last tempted to dive for the roots of those vessels with his needle. And now let us observe the con- sequence of this: Suppose that a surgeon does not dis- sect neatly for the radial or ulnar artery at the wrist, but plunges for it with his needle, the skin, tendons, and nerves, are included, and the ligature is drawn tight upon them ; there may be most dangerous nervous symptoms from the including of the nerve, or, more certainly, the next day, by the fading of the parts, the ligature slackens, and the artery bleeds again. “When the student, then, is studying this part of the anatomy, let him not run with too much rapidity over this important lesson. I would recommend it to him to read Mr. John Bell’s Principles of Surgery, upon this point, where he will find surgical cases so pictured and represented to him, that he will not quickly forget them; let him return then again to his subject; let him examine the fascia at the fore part of the wrist, and the manner in which it covers the artery ; let him observe the palmar aponeurosis, and mark accurately, the place at which the arteries turn over the wrist; let him mark the connection of the ulnar artery and nerve, where they lie connected, and observe the radial nerve free from the arteries, pass- ing under the ligament of the wrist, and then he will not be guilty of seeking the radial nerve, in order to separate it from the radial artery.” The situation of the nerves should be accurately mark- ed ; for cases occasionally occur, which may induce us to cut the branch of one of the nerves; but the propriety of such an operation, is very questionable. We must not do it in a person who has the slightest symptoms of hysteria, as such cases will probably be very much aggravated by the operation.—I was lately induced, by certain very distress- ing symptoms, which were distinctly referable to a small tumour in a branch of the radial nerve, to extirpate the tumour ; hut though the local symptoms were removed by the operation, still 1 would not like to repeat it? for though my patienthad never previously been hysterical, she was affected, for several days succeeding the operation.