218 Rectus Capitis Anticus Minor. Or. The fore part of the body- of the atlas. In. The root of the condyloid process of the os occipitis. Use. To nod the head forwards. Rectus Capitis Lateralis. Or. The point of the transverse process of the atlas. In. The os occipitis, opposite to the foramen stylo-mastoideum of the temporal bone. Use, To move the head a little to one side. Scalenus Anticus. Or. The transverse processes of the fourth, fifth, and sixth vertebrae of the neck. IN. The upper side of the first rib, near its cartilage. Scalenus Medius. Or. The transverse processes of all the ver- tebrae of the neck. (The nerves to the superior extremity, pass between this muscle and the former.) In. The upper and outer part of the first rib, extending from its root to within the distance of an inch from its cartilage. Scalenus Posticus. Or. The transverse processes of the fifth and sixth vertebrae of the neck. In. The upper edge of the second rib, near the spine. These three muscles bend the neck to one side. When the neck is fixed, they elevate the ribs, and dilate the chest. LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. The ligaments of the spine should be examined after the muscles are dissected. All the vertebrte, except the two first, (viz. the atlas and dentata,) are connected together, nearly in the same |i manner. The first set of ligaments to be dissected, are those which may be easily understood, though, from t their shortness, it will be difficult to show them, viz. the 1 capsular ligaments, which bind the articulating processes h together. As each vertebra has four articulating surfaces, M there must be as many capsular ligaments, viz. two supe- a rior, and two inferior; these will be sufficiently distinctly f seen, when the vertebrae are divided from each other. If we remove the muscles from the anterior part of ii several of the bodies of the vertebrae, we shall see a dense i fascia, which may be traced down the whole length of the jl fore part of the spine; this is the ligament which is called d I,IGAMENTUM COMMUNE ANTERIUS, Or FASCIA LONGITUDI- t| nauis anterior ;—we may also see between the bodies of t the vertebrie, the matter which is called intervertebral j substance, and, covering this, cross slips of ligament, j