22 importance in settling the question,—how is the stricture' to be cut? Some authors direct us to cut inwards, some outwards^ and others upwards. It is seldom necessary to cut more than a very small part of both the fasciae which we have just mentioned, but if it be necessary to cut more, we ought to follow the advice given by Mr. Charles Bell, to cut a little at different points, for this will be as effectual in relaxing a circle, as one long cut in any one direction, and will not be attended with the same danger. Students have been led into great confusion by the use of the term “ Gimbernal’s ligament.” It would appear that the greater number of surgeons who make use of this term, have taken their description of the ligament from that given by Mr. Hey. Mr. Hey describes Gimbernat’s ligament to be the “ posteror attachment of the apo- neurosis of the external oblique muscle.” The common expression in Loudon is, that “ Gimbernat’s ligament is the third insertion of Poupart’s ligament.” Now, it has already been shown, that after the whole of the tendon of the external oblique has been cut through, and, conse- quently, after that which is generally described as the third attachment of Poupart’s ligament, that there still remains that deep crescentic fascia which has been by us, perhaps erroneously, described as the continuation of the fascia transversalis, which is sufficiently strong to produce stran- gulation. Now, if Mr. Hey’s description of Gimbernat’s ligament be correct, here is sufficient proof that it cannot be the part which actually causes the stricture. It would be much better if we were to lay aside the use of Gimbernat’s name, for he has no right, from the merits of his publication, to be considered as an authority. Though some of his remarks are very good, still we cannot have much respect for the anatomical acquirements of a man who says,—“Were it not an expansion of the fascia lain, which unites firmly with the bands of the ex- ternal abdominal ring, and strengthens their junction, they would separate, on the application of the slightest force, as far as the spine of the ilium and in discussing an operation for femoral hernia, by Baudou, in the Hotel JDieu, he says, “ The spermatic artery, when divided within the abdomen, occasions a haemorrhage very difficult to stop.” The operation of Gimbernat appears to have been sug- gested by speculations upon the view of the parts in their natural state, and not from any observation of the dif- ficulties which embarrass the surgeon in his operation.