242 by using the scissars and a small hook, in the manner already described.* After having seen all the superficial nerves, we may proceed to the dissection of those which lie deeper. The platisma may now be removed, and the external surface of the sterno cleido mastoideus be dissected clean ; so may the digastricus superior, and the mylo hyoideus: but we must not take oft' all the cellular membrane from the sterno hyoideus and thyroideus muscles, because in doing so, we should cut across some of the branches of the descendens noni. The origins of the sterno cleido mastoideus may now be raised, and the muscle becarried towards its insertion. In doing th is, we shall see, at about two inches from the mas- toid process, the superior respiratory nerve, or spinal accessory,+ entering into its substance, and per- forating it, in an oblique direction. After tracing the branches of this nerve, we should cut through the digas- tricus superior, so as to expose the stylo hyoideus; imme- diately below the level of which, we shall discover the IXth, or lingual nerve, running towards the oshyoides: if we pull upon it, we shall see a small branch running down the neck, towards the muscles on the larynx ;—this twig is the descendens noni, which, if followed, will be found to pass along the sheath surrounding the carotid artery and ju- gular vein, and to form connections with some of the cer- vical nerves. It is lost upon the sterno hyoideus and thy- roideus muscles. $ * When we have finished the dissection for the day, we shoal either cover the parts with a wet cloth, or put them into water ; b this, the nerves will be blanched, and afterwards more distinct! seen. If bougies, or black pins, be put under the nerves which have been dissected, the display will be still more distinct. •f See Note upon this, in the deep dissection. t In the connections of the seventh, the ninth, the nervus super ficialis oervicalis.the roots of the phrenic, and that which is called th< external respiratory,—we see the media of many combinations:—the expression and consent of parts in sneezing, coughing, vomiting ; th expressive spasmodic actions during violent passion; the spasms in hydrophobia and tetanus. In the connections of the phrenic nerv with the cervical nerves, we may observe the source of that remark able sympathy which makes the affection, or wound of the diaphragm be attended with pain in the shoulders, or convulsive rising am shrugging of the shoulders.