10G nal to the capsular ligament. They are very numerous; but of the whole, there are only two, which can be con- sidered of much importance, viz. the two crucial liga- ments,—but, by a nice dissection, these may be proved to be also external to the capsular ligament. To show the in- ternal ligaments, we should cut through the capsular liga- ment, beginning at the upper part.* As the cut is carried past the patella, a duplicature, or lucking in of the liga- ment, will be seen on each side : the one on the outside, is called the Ligamentum Alnre Externum, the other, the Ligamentum Alare Internum. When we cut through these portions of the capsular ligament, and pull down the pa- tella, we shall see a ligamentous band running towards the fatty matter which lies between the condyles: this is the Ligamenlum Mucosum. When this is cut through or broken, the anterior crucial ligament will be seen ; but to make it more distinct, we should cut through the lateral ligaments, and the ligamentum poplitale,—we shall then find, that although all the external ligaments are cut, that the femur and the tibia still keep their relative positiou to each other. If we bend the femur to the utmost on the tibia, the anterior crucial ligament will be distinctly seen; if we extend it fully, then the pos- terior will be stretched;—and if we twist the femur on tile tibia, we shall comprehend why these ligaments are called crucial. On cutting through these two ligaments, the femur will fall, separated from the tibia. We have now finished the examination of the ligaments which smite the (efimr witn the bones of the ieg; but there are still some ligaments on the head of the tibia, which form part of the apparatus of the joint. The semilunar cartilages, which, by their peculiar form, deepen the concavity for the lodgement of the condjles, will be seen lying on the upper part of the tibia. If we put the handle of the knife under them, and push it towards the edge of the tibia, the ligament which is called Coronarium, and which attaches the cartilages to the rim of the tibia, will be seen, — (there is only one described for both cartilages.) If we look on the anterior part, between the cartilages, we shall see the ligament which is called Transversa/e; and lastly, we may observe, that the extremities of the two cartilages are attached to the tibia by separate ligaments, each of which is called Oblique. * In cutling through the insertion of the muscles, to the patella, we shall open a la.ge bursa, which is often connected with the capsular ligament.