31 also divide the venae cav® hepatic®. In removing the stomach, the oesophagus must be pulled down; but it should be tied with a double ligature before it is cut. The pancreas, &c. will also be easily separated by cut- ting through a few vessels, and a little cellular membrane. The viscera may be put into water, for future examination. We may now show the muscular fibres of the diaphragm, by taking off the peritoneum which covers it; but in doing this, we must avoid cutting through the diaphragm, or the air will rush into the chest, and the diaphragm will fall, relaxed. We should observe the three openings in the diaphragm, viz. the central one, between the crura, for the aorta aud thoracic duct ; the right, or tendinous one, for the vena cava (which vessel has probably been torn, in pulling away the liver); and on the left side, the hole for the oesophagus.. The only viscera now remaining, are the kidneys and their appendages. There are but few observations neces- sary to be made on them at present, as they will be de- scribed in the dissection of the vessels of the abdomen; the young dissector should only look to their general situ- ation, and observe, that in consequence of the quantity of fat and cellular membrane which covers them, they are not closely invested by the peritoneum, as the chylopoe- tic viscera are ; and therefore, they are generally de- scribed as being situated without the peritoneum. The kidneys may now be removed, that we may complete the first general dissection of the abdomen by showing the course of the deep muscles, viz. the quadratus lunibo- rura, pso®, and ilacus interims. The cellular membrane covering these muscles is very loose, and easily removed ; the small vessels and nerves which run upon them may be cut through, but the aorta should be preserved. At the upper part of the quadratus a strong ligament will be seen running from the extremity of the last rib, to the trans- verse process of the first lumbar vertebra; this is the ligamentum arcuatum. Upon the iliacus and psoas there is a strong fascia, which is also closely united to the Pou- part ligament. To trace the muscles to their insertion, this fascia should be cut through ; but at present we should not follow them to the trochanter, for by this, we should destroy some of the muscles of the thigh. Origin and Insertion of the Diaphragm. The diaphragm is a broad thin muscle, which, with its tendon, makes a complete transverse septum or partition betwixt the thorax and abdomen; it is concave downward and convex upward; the middle of it, on each side, reaches as high within the thorax as the level of the lourtb rib.