108 towards the os hyoides, may he first dissected. To see its origin, we must raise the lobe of the parotid ; and in showing the connection of its middle tendon with the os hyoides, (which is only by a ligament,) we must take care that we do not cut through the fibres of the stylo hyoi- deus. which is perforated by it. The maxillary half of the muscle is to be dissected by carrying the kuife in a direction from the chin to the os hyoides. The next muscle to be dissected, is the mylo hyoideds. But before its middle fibres can be seen, that part of the submaxillary gland which lies upon it, must be removed ;— nor will its attachment to the centre of the jaw, or its connection with its fellow, be seen, until the anterior por- tion of the biventer is raised. If the mylo hyoideus be carefully raised from the jaw, and from its connection with the mylo of the opposite side, the genio hyoideus will be seen running from the jaw to the os hyoides ; but it is so closely attached to its fellow, that the two muscles appear to form only one. There is another set of fibres which take nearly the same origin as the genio hyoideus; but as these fibres run both to the os hyoides and to the tongue, the muscle which they form is called genio hyo glossus. Certain fibres may now be seen passing from the os hyoides to the tongue, to form the hyo glossus,—on the inside of which, may be found a set of fibres, running from the base to the tip of the tongue, to form the lingualis. The next object of the dissection should be, to display the lateral muscles—the styloid. To do this, the lower portion of the parotid gland should be raised, and the origin of the digaslricus should be cut. When this is done, some of the branches of the carotid will be ex- posed : but these, at present, may be cut through. Three muscles may now be easily shown, running from the styloid process:—one, to the os hyoides ; another, to the tongue ; and the third, to the pharynx. As each of these muscles is named according to its origin and inser- tion, they are called stylo hyoideus, stylo glossus, and stylo phauyngeus. The dissection of them will be faci- litated by pulling the os hyoides downwards, and towards the opposite side. The dissection of the muscles of the neck should not be prosecuted farther, until those of the face are dis- sected.