231 X 2 muscle ;—wc shall then find its branches becoming super.-; ficial,—some of which pass to the scalp, and others run to supply the superficial muscles of the back. The pharvn- gea interior is not unfrequently the second branch that arises from the external carotid; but, as it rises from the back part of the artery, it cannot be conveniently seen until the branches which have already been described, are partially dissected,—aud even in this stage, its trunk only, can be seen: the branches will be seen after those under the jaw are dissected. The trunk of the carotid is now to be traced into the parotid gland : while here, it gives off a number of sinal} branches, which are to be exposed by carefully cutting away the substance of the gland. The larger branches, which are very superficial, should then be traced, viz. the temporal and the transversalis faciei. These are so immediately under the skin, that there can be no difficulty iu finding them. After exposing these branches, we may return to the dissection of the arteries of the face,—for which there is no farther rule necessary, than merely to follow them from trunk to branch, with the scissars and forceps.—The names of the small branches will be found in the Table. Many of these branches, must now be destroyed, that we may show the arteries which pass into the deep parts of the face,* and particularly the branches of the maxil- LARIS INTERNA. The dissection of the branches of this artery is very dif- ficult; for we must not only cut through the greater num- ber of the muscles on the side of the face, but we must also remove the greater part of the jaw. The first thing we should do, is to expose the trunk of the external carotid, until the internal maxillary is seen going off from it,—which it generally does, opposite to the lobe of the ear. The artery is then to be traced as far as possible under the jaw. After which, the jaw bone is to be cut through, just at the point where the facial artery passes over it (induing this, we should, of course, take care not to injure the arteries of the neck). We may then cut through the insertion of the pterygoideus internus ; after which, the kuife is to be carried close upon the in- side of the hone, so as to separate the buccinator and the * Nearly the same rules should be followed in making a prepara- tion of the arteries of the head. The superficial arteries should be preserved on one side,—and on the other, they should be removed, »o that the deep ones may be exhibited.