272 this will show the iris in union with the choroid, through the medium of the white body called ligamentum ci- liare. It must he evident, at first view, that the iris is of a very different structure from the choroid. On the latter, we see a number of small veins, disposed in whirls or vortices, whence the name vasa vorlicosa ; while on the iris, we can- not see any thing resembling them. There is not any ap- pearance in the choroid, of fibres; but in the iris, we see both radiated and circular,—which have been, by the best authorities, supposed to be muscular. The colour of the two parts, anteriorly, is also very different; for the name of iris has been given, from the variety of colours seen upon it. When the anterior sur- face is examined with the microscope, a number of villi will be seen, which are said to secrete the different co- loured matters; but when the back of the iris is examined, it will be found to be covered with the pigmentum ni- grum, whence, from its black appearauce, it has sometimes been called nvea. So far, it is sufficiently clear, that the choroid and iris are very different from each other; but many authors have said, that the anterior part of the choroid is divided into two portions, viz. into the Iris and Ciliary Processes. But I think those authors must have come to this con- clusion, in consequence of having made the dissection in rather a superficial manner. To understand the true anatomy of the part, we must first examine the ligament by which the iris is connected to the choroid.—In the fresh eye, it is so firm, that it is difficult to detach the iris ; but after the eye has been macerated for some time, the iris may easily be separated from the choroid, and then the ciliary processes will be seen. This dissection may be made in two ways; the first may be done in an eye nearly quite fresh.—After the iris and part of the choroid have been exposed, we should introduce one blade of the scissars into the pupil, and cut across the iris, (but not quite to its root,) at two sides of the circle. If we then tear one half of the iris back towards the choroid, we shall expose the black circle of ciliary processes, lying loose on the margin of the capsule of the lens: by tearing away this portion of the iris, altogether from the ligament, we shall see that these processes are the termination of the choroid.—To expose them in another manner, the eye should be two days old.—We should not now cut the cornea, but through the circle of the sclerotic, about a