161 of the dura mater, there will probably be a greater pro- portion of lymph on the surface; which has led some to doubt the fact, of there ever being a protrusion of the substance of the brain itself. In this latter case, an ab- scess will generally be found, extending from the fungus to the ventricle. When a patient dies in a fit of apoplexy, we shall some- times find only a very small clot,—but occasionally, a mass of firm blood, weighing some ounces. Where there is a large coagulum, the substance of the brain will be firm, and its vessels empty. In the greater number of these apoplectic cases, it is very difficult to discover the source of the bleeding; and it is. with much reason, supposed to be frequently from very small vessels; but if the pa- tient has been suddenly seized while drunk, and struggling, there will probably be rupture of a large vessel. If a pa- t tieut has survived an attack of apoplexy, we may discover the cavity in which the coagulum lay.—The sides of it will I he smooth and tough ; and there will be serum, in place of ' the coagulum, which has been absorbed. If a man has been suddenly killed, while in a state of health, the ventricles will, on examination, be found to be merely lubricated with a fluid ; but in all cases where pa- tients die of protracted disease, more or less water will be tound in the ventricles. In the acute hydrocephalus, there ii is frequently several ounces; but in the chronic hydroce- iphalus, the quantity of water will correspond to the size ot the head,—as in this disease, the mass of the brain i forms a mere sac for the water. The stale of the plexus choroides should be compared with the appearance of the pia mater, for it will generally correspond with it. Small cysts, like hydatids, are so frequently found at- tached to the plexus choroides, that we can hardly con- sider them to he of importance ; but there are a few ex- amples on record of very large cysts, or hydatids, having- been found in the substance of the brain. In the Museuur, i :n Great Windmill Street, there are two very fine speci- mens; one of them contained four ounces of fluid. The Pineal gland is sometimes very soft; at other times ft appears like a vesicle. I have so frequently found it in >oth of these states, that I cannot attach more importance o them, than to the gritty matter which is so often found nn it. So far, the examination should he conducted nearly in r-he same manner as that described for investigating the latural anatomy; but to prosecute it farther, the Tjraiu JP 3