167 or we shall be obliged to cut in a line across the fibres of the sterno cleido mastoideus muscle, which will increase the difficulty of raising the cellular membrane. The same thing is to be recollected in lifting the upper portion. When the platysma is raised, we shall see a number of | glands on each side of the sterno cleido mastoideus; but these, we may cut away, without paying particular atten- tion to them in the present dissection. The muscles which run from the jaw to the os hyoides, and those from the sternum to the same point, will be now partially exposed;—but previous to dissecting either of these sets of muscles, the origins and insertions of the sterno cleido mastoideus should be shown, after which, the muscle may be cut through, about the middle; one half of it is then to be carried up towards the occiput, and the other towards the clavicle. There will now be little difficulty in exposing the small muscles, for the course of the fibres of several of them will be seen under a thin layer of cellular membrane. The sterno hyoideus, which is the mostsuperficia),may be shown in its whole extent.—But at present, we cannot exhibit the origin of the next muscle, (the omo hyoideus,) because it arises from the scapula ; but by dissecting to- wards the shoulder, we shall find a central tendon, which divides this muscle into two parts, whence, besides the common name of omo hyoideus, it has been called digas- tricus,—and the term inferior is also added to it, as there is another double bellied muscle situated under the jaw. The muscle which will be partially seen between the two last, is the sterno tiiyroideus. To expose it fully, the sterno hyoideus should be cut through the middle, or held aside. In dissecting the sterno thyroideus, the young student is very apt to raise the origin of the thyreo hyoideus, which runs from the thyroid cartilage to the os hyoides, and thus to give the appearance of two sterno hyoidei muscles. When the sterno thyroid is raised, one half of the thyroid gland will be seen; and if it be pulled aside, the small muscle which passes from the cricoid cartilage to the thyroid, (crico thyroideus,) may be shown. The dissection of the muscles which run from the jaw to the os hyoides, should now be made. As the most superficial muscle, the biventer superior, is composed of two parts, it will be necessary to dissect in two different directions, to expose its fibres. The ori- gin of the portion which runs from the mastoid process