274 Having seen this membrane, the choroid may be stripped farther off, and then the termination of the ner- vous matter of the retina will he seen, marked by a vessel, running about the eighth of an inch from the mar- gin of the lens.* Some vessels will be seen under the ner- vous matter; they are on the tunica vasculosa iietin\e. It may now be understood, that the nervous pulp of the retina, is contained between the membrane of Jacob and the tunica vasculosa. The transparent coals which contain the humours, may now be examined. If we make a puncture in the angle between the margin of the lens and the vitreous humour, and then blow into the puncture, we shall distend the cavity that is called the Petitian canal, and which surrounds the lens. When it is distended with air, or size injection, it has a plaited appearance, whence it was called by the French anatomists. Canal Godronnee. Different modes of showing this part, will be described presently. On the plaits, we shall see black strias, which have erroneously been called the ciliary processes of the retin® ; they are nothing more than marks left by the ciliary processes;—this appearance, however, gives a good idea of the shape and situation of these pro- cesses. t If we make a puncture on the anterior part of the lens, and blow into it, its capsule will be raised; in doing this, a small quantity of fluid, which is called the Liquor Mor- gagni, will escape. By pushing the blow-pipe into the vitreous humour, we may distend the tunica hyaloidea, or capsule of the vitreous humour; this is not a regular sac, similar to the capsule of the lens, but has more of a cellular structure, and contains the humour in the cells. This capsule is supposed, by many, to split at the anterior part; one portion is said to go anterior to the lens,— the other, posterior to it; and that, in this manner, the Petitian canal is formed. Mr. Charles Bell, however, has said, in his Description of the Eye, that the canal is formed by the splitting of the tunica vasculosa retin®; and this * By dropping a little weak acid on the retina, the nervous mat- ter will become more distinct; but if we wash the surface with an alkaline solution, the nervous matter will be destroyed, and then the tunioa vasculosa will be seen. t By Winslow, these marks are called Sulei Ciliares; by Zinn, Corona Ciliaris; by C. Bell, Halo Signatus. «<