2 cular fibres and glistening tendons, as he may sometimes see exhibited on the table of the lecturer; because it is really very difficult to make a neat and complete dissection of these muscles. I have already remarked, that the student must, in his first dissection, be content with making himself master of the general connections of the muscles only ; for until he has done this, he is not prepared to study the surgical anatomy with advantage. Before commencing the dissection, the fibres of the muscles should be put upon the stretch by placing the body iu a proper position. This may be done by putting a large wooden block under the loins, by letting the legs hang over the table, and by throw ing the arms towards tne head. When the body is put in this position, an incision is to be made through the integuments, in the line of the liuea alba, extending from an inch above the ensiform cartilage to the symphysis of the pubes. A second cut should com- mence at the upper part of the first, and be carried in a semi- circular direction over the chest to the posterior superior spinous process of the ilium. An incision from the umbili- cus to the osseous part of the sixth rib will facilitate the dissection. The student should now commence the dissec- tion of the first muscle, (external oblique.) at the cross cut; and as this is supposed to be his first attempt, I shall give a particular description of the manner of proceeding. The cutting edge of the knife is to be placed perpendicular to the muscular fibres on the margin of the ribs, and is to be carried in the line of the incision towards the umbilicus. The knife may be set boldly on the fibres of the muscle which are between the ribs and the linea semilunaris ; but between this line and the umbilicus much caution must be used, as the muscle forms a tendinous expansion here, which is frequently mistaken by the young dissector for cellular membrane, and thus the tendon of the muscle is improperly lifted and cut away In dissecting this tendi- nous part, the edge of the knife should not be held per- pendicular to the tendon, but rather in a slanting direction. After some fibres of the muscle have been exposed in their whole extent from the origin on the ribs to their in- sertion into the linea alba, the forceps may be laid aside, and then with the linger and thumb of the left hand, the flap of skin should be pulled downwards and outw ards, so as to make the fibres of the muscle still more tense. The dissection is to he continued, in the manner already de- scribed, down to the ilium. As the cellular membrane becomes denser, as we approach the groin, it may be