138 very apparent, which was a sou; le of some difficulty in the succeeding steps of the operation. It was not indeei, until after several ineffectual efforts, that I was enabled to pass a female sound into the opening, with the intention of lifting the artery, and facilitating the application of the ligatures. This instrument was directed towards the superior part, that I might apply the two upper ligatures ; after which, I introduced it into the lower part, as far as the bifurcation of the popliteal artery, and passed under it two other ligatures; both the superior and inferior liga- tures were introduced by the assistance of the needle of M. Deschamps. The artery was tied above and below the opening, by the two nearest ligatures; the inferior was done in the common way, by two knots, but for the supe- rior, I made use of another instrument of M. Deschamps. known by the name of the Presse Arlere; by the aid of which, the artery was not puckered, as it must alwavs be by the circular ligature, but it was flattened by the little plate which forms the end of the instrument. I took care to moderate still more the pressure upon the artery, by putting under the pjate a small piece of agaric, secured by a thread. After the superior and inferior ligatures were applied, the tourniquet was relaxed: the blood did not flow from the opening in the artery. I then proceeded to the application of the dressing. The ligatures tfattenic, being each enveloped in a piece of fine linen, were placed at the angles of the wound ; the wound was filled lightly with charpie, so as to avoid the slightest pressure, and at the same time to preserve the vertical position of -the presse artere.” &c. We may now remove the skin from the parts below the knee, leaving the veins and small nerves upon it. In dissecting the veins, we should consider the diseases which they are most liable to,—particularly their varicose state. In the dissecting-room we shall find many oppor- tunities of examining varicose veins, and proving that tbe common ideas upon this disease are erroneous; for we shall find, that the valves are not destroyed, but that the coats of the. veins are thickened, so as to prevent the valves from doing their office. I may here remark, that a practice, which, a prioriy would not be considered good, will be of great service in relieving the varicose state of the veins, and the ulcers that are a consequence-of it,— that of applying a spring compress over the trunk of the varicose vein.