G3 necessary, that we should observe in the skeleton the form of the arch which is made by the rami of the pubes and ischium, and examine its width,—and then calculate the space which would be occupied by the common sized for- ceps, with only a small stone between the blades. It will at once be evident, that an incision made high in the arch must he useless,—for the upper part of the arch is not only too narrow to permit the forceps to be extracted with a stone within their grasp, but, in the living body, it is filled up by a strong ligament. This view of the bony arch, will prove, that the upper part of the incision need not be higher than through the transversalis muscle; and conse- quently, that neither the ejaculator nor the erector should be cut. The first incision of a good lithotomist extend* from the upper edge of the transversalis to below the anus. If we examiue the parts in the line of such an incision, we shall see that the greater part of it may be made very boldly, for it must pass through the mass of fat that is be- tween the rectum and ischium, and in which there are no vessels of importance. If we remove this fat, we shall see, that, in the second incision, the levator ani must be freely cut, before a stone can be easily and safely extracted. As the arteries have been injected, we may already see, that if the first incisions be properly made, that there can be no danger of hsemorrhage. The small arteries have been already noticed. The first artery of importance which is found in the perineum, is that of the bulb, and which may be discovered by dissecting above the trans- versalis muscle. For the reasons already given, this artery ought never to be cut r it is too high up. If we trace this artery back towards the ramus of the pubes, we shall discover the pudica interna, from which all the arteries of the perineum arise. When we examine the manner in which this vessel is bound by a strong fascia, to the ramus of the ischium, it will be evident, that no surgeon, if he has his wils about him, can be in danger of cutting it, if he performs the operation with the scalpel. When the artery is cut, it must be by a careless introduction of the gorget, or in withdrawing the bistoure cachee through the upper part of the arch. Before we leave this view, it may be remarked, that there is another good reason, be- sides those already given, for making the incisions low, viz. that the urine will be prevented from lodging, after the operation, and producing abscesses,—which it is very liable to do, when the incisions are made high in the perineum. It is not easy to pass an instrument into the bladder G 2