137 of the great nerve, in consequence of the extensive sup- puration which must follow such an operation. But even when the operation succeeded, the limh was liable to re- main contracted, in consequence of the adhesion ot the parts. When these dangers are compared with the consequences that generally follow the modern operation,—we cannot doubt, as to which we should choose. But the advantages of the modern operation, in almost every case, over the old method, will be more distinctly shown, by the relation of the following case, which was published in 1809, by M. Roux, in his “ Melanges de Chirurgie et de Physio- logic I introduce it here, not only to lead the student to compare the simplicity of the operations on the arteries, as performed by the English surgeons, with those by the French, but also as a detail which may, perchance, be useful,—as I have seen a case of popliteal aneurism, in which the artery should have been tied in the ham. The operation was performed in the presence of MM. Leroux, Deschamps, Boyer, Dupuytren, &c. and the account of it is introduced by the following eulogy, by M. Roux :— “ Could we unite and examine all the cases in which the operations for aneurism have been successfully per- formed, either by the ordinary method, or by that of Hunter, we should find few where the operation has been attended with results more simple, or success more re- markable.” “ A tourniquet was placed on the middle of the thigh, over ihe course of the femoral artery, and a stout as- sistant compressed the artery at the groin. I made the first incision of the integuments about seven inches long. The second incision, through the aponeurosis, exposed the sciatic nerve, which, though immediately attached to the aneurismal tumour, was not degenerated or flattened, as it frequently is. It was easy to pull the nerve aside, and to keep it under the external edge of the incision. I then open- ed the tumour parallel to the course of the popliteal arte- ry, and on the inner side of the sciatic nerve; It contained a quantity of liquid blood, and of dense clots, which ad- hered firmly to the walls of t^e cyst, notwithstanding the short duration of the disease-. These clots being removed, I made the interior of the cyst perfectly dry. We could then discover, at the bottom of the wound, the opening of the artery, or rather, the blood flowing from it, when the tourniquet was relaxed; for the opening itself, was not