256 The eye, •with its muscles, nerves, &c. may be removed, or drawn aside. The zygomatic process of the temporal bone is to be cut through at its root,—so is the malar process of the su- perior maxillary. When the intermediate portion of bone is removed, we may easily trace the superior maxillary of the V'h, across the spheno palatine fissure, to the orbital canal of the superior maxillary bone,—from which it emerges, at the infra orbital foramen, upon the face. nerve is distributed to its corresponding division of the bodily frame, without ever taking a longitudinal course on the body,—and finally, that these nerves are common to all animals which have a symmetri- cal body and a regular nervous system. This view will more easily be understood, by referring to the Plan in plate 1. When we examine the origin of the nerves minutely, we shall find, that the Vth is the only nerve of the scull, which comes off in such critical circumstances, as to have a root from the crus cerebri, and another from the crus cerebelli,—which parts may, by compara- tive anatomy, be proved to be the continuations of the anterior and posterior divisions of the spinal marrow. The Vth will also be found to be the only nerve within the scull, which has a ganglion at its roots. Those who have dissected the deep nerves of the head, or who have attempted to demonstrate the branches of the Vth pair to students, will be able to estimate the value of this view. ■ I have examiued the nerve repeatedly, in its whole course, in man, in the horse, the ass, the calf, and the dog. By these dissections, I have been convinced, that, in every respect, the Vth pair re- sembles the spinal nerves, even in the peculiar form of its ganglion and plexus. In the horse, there is as distinct a plexus formed by the branches of this nerve which go to the different parts of the head, as there is formed by those which go from the axilla, or loins, to supply the limbs. I conceive, also, that the form of Ihe part from which this nerve arises, is analogous to that of the spina) marrow where the axillary nerves take their origin. If this be : correct, it will be another proof of the similarity of the Vth nerve to the spinal nerves. In this investigation, I have been able to correct the very com- mon mistake, that the sympathetic nerve has its principal connec- tion with the nerves of the head, through the \Tth nerve. The branches of the sympathetic, which appear to goto the VTlh, go to the ganglionic portion of the V*'* 1 * * * V. By the establishment of this fact, it is proved, that even the con- nection between the sympathetic and the Vth, is similar to the union of the sympathetic with the ganglionic roots of the spinal nerves. For an account of the experiments by which the similarity of the Vth and spinal nerves is further proved, I must refer to a paper in the Philosophical Transactions of the present year.