119 Ml. PUDICA Interna before it passes out of the pelvis, it gives oil, 1. Haunorrhoidales Media ; 2. Vesicales Irnae ; while between the ligaments, 3. to the gemini, obturator, and pyriformis muscles; on entering the pelvis again, 4. Haemorrhoidales Externa; in the perineum, 5. Su- perficialis Perinei; 6. Transversalis Perinei;—then we fnd the three important arteries continued from the trunk (ARTERIA COMMUNIS PENIS), 1. ARTERY of the BULB, 2. ARTERIA PROFUNDA PROPRIA, 3. ARTERIA SUPER- FICIALIS, or DORSALIS PENIS. ARTERIES OF THE THIGH. 1LIACA EXTERNA. (within the abdomen.) I. Irregular branches to the muscles. II. ARTERIA Epigastrica ; 1. to the cord and cremaster muscle ; 2. towards the back of the os pubis ; 3. prin- cipal branch ascending upon the rectus.; 4. sometimes the obturator. III. ARTERIA Circumflexa Ilii ; to the iliacus internus, to the abdominal muscles, anastomosing with the ilio luin- balis, and often a branch to the spermatic cord. FEMORAL ARTERY. I. Rami Inouinales ; 1. to the glands, fat, and integuments ; 2. Ramus Major, sometimes called Reflexa Ilii; 3. Epi- gastrica Superficialis,—but this is very irregular. II. Arteria: Pudenda, viz. 1. pudenda superior, 2. pudenda media, 3. pudenda inferior. III. Circumflexa Externa ;—(sometimes from the femoral, but most commonly from the profunda ;) 1. muscular branches; 2. transverse branch to the muscles, 3. the pro- per branch to the joint communicating with the circum- tlexa interna; 4. Ramus Externus Descendens, passing between the vastus externus and rectus, and inosculat- ing with the articular arteries of the knee. IV. Circumflexa Interna ;—(often from the profunda;) 1. branches to the triceps ; 2. branches to inosculate with the obturator; 3. branches to the capsule of the joint. V. Profunda ; 1. irregular branches ; 2. great descending internal branch—1. ramus perforans primus, 2. ramus perforans secundus, 3. ramus perforans tertius, and, sometimes, 4. ramus perforans quartus. SUPERFICIAL FEMORAL ARTERY. I. Irregular branches to the muscles which it passes. II. Ramus Anastomoticus MagNus. This is the first con- siderable branch which the femoral artery gives off, viz. while concealed in the tendon of the triceps.