49 a little urine will drop from it. The pel vis, is the name given to the membrane forming the upper part of the duct, or ureter; the portions of this which pass up on each papilla, are called either calices or infundibula, ac- cording to the manner in which they are examined; thus, if we look to them as running upwards, each part will re- semble the calyx of a flower,—but if we take them in another view, they will appear as little funnels. The structure of the kidney differs much in certain classes of animals, from that of the human body. In the kidney of the sheep, there is a very close resemblance to that of man ; but in the lion, dog, cat, &c. the kidney is never lobulated, but has only one papilla,—whence it is called a single kidney. In the ox it continues lobulated through the whole life of the animal: but the best ex- amples of the lobulated kidney, are those of animals which occasionally inhabit the water, as the bear, seal, &c. The capsula renalis, or, as it has been called by the an- cients, gland ula atrabiliaris, is of very curious structure, resembling a piece of fat: in the foetus, it is large, in pro- portion to the kidney ; but in old age, it is hardly possible to discover it;—the only thing observable in it, is a cavity, in which there is occasionally a thick blackish fluid. I trust that this short sketch of the manner of investi- gating the minute structure of the viscera, will be consi- dered as only an endeavour to induce the student to pro- secute this subject, which, though difficult, is highly in- teresting and important. SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE MANNER OF EXAMINING A BODY TO DISCOVER THE SEAT OF DISEASE. When called upon to make a private examination of the state of the abdomen of a person who has died in conse- quence of visceral disease, we should endeavour, in open- ing the body, to disfigure it as little as possible. The best manner of proceeding is, to cut through the skin only, in the line of the linea alba, beginning a little above the mid- dle of the sternum, down to the pubes. The skin may be quickly dissected from the muscles, and pulled over to- wards each side: the muscles may then be cut in any direc- tion. If the body is not very fat, this longitudinal cut in the skin will give us sufficient room for our examination ; but we may be obliged to make a transverse incision below' F