260 accessory ;* and the trunk, passing up, to unite with the fibres of the par vaguin and glosso pharyngeal, which have their origin from the corpus olivare. The three * This is a very remarkable nerve. In all animals in which it is found, it is intimately connected with the respiratory nerves. If an animal does not perform part of the act of respiration by muscles which run from the scull to the chest, no spinal accessory, or superior external respiratory, as it is called by Mr Bell, will be found. A common example of this may be seen, in any of the larger birds, as the swan, &c. By experiments on the ass, we have proved, that, by cutting this nerve, we can paralyze the muscles to which it goes, as muscles of respiration,—though the same muscles, being still supplied by other nerves, will retain their powers of rais- ing the head, &c. During the month of April last, there was an excellent opportu- nity afforded of corroborating the opinions which Mr. Bell has formed on the use of this nerve, by the dissection of the Courier Camel, or Maherry, which was brought from the interior of Africa by Captain Lyon, as a present to his Majesty. In the dissection of this animal, we noticed many interesting facts, which have been over- looked by comparative anatomists,—and particularly the distribu- tion of the nerves of the neck and stomach. The arrangement of the nerves which combine the muscles of the throat and stomach, in the act of rumination, is very beautiful. But at present I shall confine my remarks to the spinal accessory, or superior respiratory nerve. The structure of the neck of the camel is very different from that of the horse or bullock.—It more nearly resembles that of a large bird, such as the swan, to which, in the slow and successive motions of the head, it has a great resemblance. Although we discovered, by dissection, that there was a great similarity in the muscular appara- tus of the neck, to that of birds, wre did not expect to find, that the arrangement of certain nerves would also correspond; and, at first, we were rather surprised that we could not find a spinal accessory nerve in union with the VIIIth, under the jaw, as we had found in all the other quadrupeds which we had examined. However, on comparing the muscles of the neck, with those of the horse, a great difference was found ; for, although there was the sterno maxillaris, which, in the horse, receives the greater part of the spinal accessory, yet it was so small, that it could have no power over the motions of the chest, as it has in the horse, ass, &c. In the lower part of the neck, there are several muscles corresponding to the scaleni, which, besides the common cervical nerves, receive a branch which arises in common with the phrenic.—By this nerve, these muscles are pro- bably combined in action with the other muscles of respiration ; while the muscles on the upper part of the neck, from their comparative size, appear to be of as little use in producing respiratory motions of the chest, as those of a bird ; and this, we may be allowed to pre- sume, is the reason, why there is no spinal accessory, or superior respiratory nerve,—but only a branch, rising in union with the phre- nic, to supply the respiratory muscles on the lower part of the neck-