317 E e 3 it, we have,—thoracica superior; thoracica longior, or mammaria externa; thoracica hurneraria, or acromialis ; thoracica alaris; subscapularis; circumjlexa posterior; cir- eumjlexa anterior. Thoracica Superior, gives branches between the first and second ribs. Thoracica Longior, — to the pectoralis major and mainrha. » Thoracica Hurneraria, — branches between the pecto- valis major and deltoid. Thoracica Alaris, — to the fat, glands, pectoralis mi- nor, &c. Subscapularis,—1. to the axilla and glands; 2. to the snbscapular muscle; 3. infra scapular brancli to the muscles of the back; 4. dorsalis, or circumflexa subscapularis, to the muscles on the back of the scapula. Circumflexa Posterior,—branches to the heads of the tri- ceps, coraeo brachialis, deltoid, and capsule. Circumflexa Anterior,—to the periosteum and capsule. The third division of the artery is the humeral, or brachial; gives,— 1. a set of small branches to the muscles; 2. profunda humeri superior ; 3. profunda humeri inferior ; 4. anastomotica magna. From the Set of small Branches, twigs go off to the biceps and brachialis internus, and also the arteria nu* tritia humeri. Profunda Superior,—l.to the muscles ; 2. radialis cora- municans, to the external condyle; 3. branches to the back of the elbow, to unite with the recurrens interossca and radialis. Profunda Inferior,— 1. to the brachialis internus and bi- ceps ; 2. to the external condyle and supinator ; 3. to the ulnar nerve and back of the elbow joint. Anastomotica Magna,—1. branch communicating with; the profunda; 2. descending superficial branch; 3. de- scending deep branch : these two form, with the recurrents of the arteries of the fore arm, the arcus anterior; 4. .transverse branch which goes behind, forming, with the profunda and recurrents, the arcus posterior. The fourth division of the great artery is into the ra* dial and ULNAR. The radial gives off: 1. to the supinator; 2. recurrens radialis; 3. in succession to the supinator, pronator, and flexor muscles; 4. superficialis voice; 5. irregular branches to the wrist; 6. dorsalis pollicis; 7. dorsalis carpi ; 8. dor- salis rnetacarpi ; 9. magna pollicis; 10. radialis tndicis ; I K