200 Tumours 'will sometimes be found projecting from the surface of the lungs, and widely interspersed in their sub- stance, of quite a different texture from tubercles, being of a very vascular and porous, or cellular nature ; perhaps these may be called sanguineous tumours. Those upon the surface, are of a reddish colour, and are covered with a smooth membrane. These are often found in those sub- jects, in which there is a similarly diseased structure in the liver aud lymphatic glands, and in the substance of the testicle. Indeed, when the lungs are diseased, we ge- nerally find that the lymphatic glands, and particularly, the mesenteric glands, are in the same state. There is one species of tubercle that is very rarely seen,—viz. a soft pulpy tubercle, of a light brown colour. In a broken-winded horse, the air cells are sometimes found ruptured, so that several communicate with each other, and form large-cysts. Something of the same kind has been found in those who have long suffered from asthma. Such an appearance was found in the lungs of the famous Dr. Samuel Johnson. This has been called emphy- sema pulmonum : it is a very different affection from that of the air vesicles, which are occasionally found adherent to the surface of the lungs. Burst hydatids arc occasionally coughed up ; but as they are very seldom found in the lungs, it is supposed that they are formed in the liver, and, that by a process of ulce- ration, a communication is formed between the sac in the liver, containing the hydatids, and the lung. Earthy concretions are so frequently found at the roots of the lungs, that I am inclined to think they are very common in scrophulous constitutions: they are generally situated near the branching of the bronchii. Aud here, though the subject is not connected with these concre- tions, 1 may remark, that the first appearance of abscess in I the lung will generally be found at the upper part,—and l.| think, more frequently on the left side, than on the jj right. If there has been a cancer of the breast, which has ex- j tended to the bone, it will generally affect the lung also. I I think I have found this happen most frequently in those I patients who have bad that sort of cancer which has been » considered as a species of fungus hcematodes. In examin- I ing the body of a person who has died of fungus hrema-1 todes, we should always attend to the state of the luugs, J for they appear to be as frequently affected with this dis- ease, as the liver. If a patient dies of irritation in the larynx, the lungs ;