230 is the submenlalis. The trunk of the artery, after passing through the submaxillary gland, turns over the jaw, to be distributed upon the face;—but the branches which pass to the face, should not be dissected until some of those below the jaw have been traced. The submaxillary gland should now be raised;—the lin- gualis may then be traced under the thyreo hyoideus muscle, sending its branches among the muscles of the tongue, which can all be easily followed if wc have already made ourselves master of the muscles of the tongue. After having traced the lingual artery to some depth, it will be found to divide into two principal branches, which are the arleria dorsalis lingucr, running towards the root, and the ranina, running to the tip of the tongue. 1 shall not here give the names of the smaller branches of the thyroid, facial, and lingual, but refer to the annexed Table. To prosecute the dissection farther, we should carefully raise the skin from over the outer part of the masseter, towards the tube of the ear, and continue the dissection of it round the back of the ear, and over the insertion of the mastoideus and trapezius. Iu removing the skin from the masseter, we must take care that we do not cut the transversauis faciei, which lies immediately under the skin, and generally in a line with the middle of the tube of the ear. Some small branches of the facial, which are called masselericce, will also be seen upon the masseter. In removing the skin from the back of the ear, we must avoid cutting the branches of the posterior auris, which are very superficial. The same care is also to be taken in dissecting towards the occiput, as many of the super- ficial branches of the occipital pass over the mastoideus and trapezius. The parotid gland will now be exposed ;—but before we trace the branches through it, we should examine the trunks of those branches which are seen on the occiput and ear. Three arteries generally rise from the carotid, before it enters into the substance of the gland, viz. the occipital, the posterior auris, and the pharyngea inferior. The occipital and posterior auris very often come off in i one trunk,—and if not, they come close together, and im- | mediately at the outer edge of the digastricus, and stylo hyoideus. The posterior auris"may be traced first, as it j runs superficially towards the back of the ear. Theocei- I pital will be found to run so deep under the insertion of i the sterno cleido mastoideus, that, to trace it fully, we shall be obliged to dissect through the substance of this