237 COMMON CAROTID divides into EXTERNAL and INTER- NAL; from the EXTERNAL, the principal branches are : I. Thy- roidea Superior; II. Lingualis ; III. Facialis; IV. Pha- RYN'GEA ASCENDENS ; V. OCCIPITALIS; VI. AURICULARIS POS- TERIOR; VII. Temporalis ; VIII. Maxillaris Interna.* I. Thyroidea Superior gives oft': 1. thyroidea propria; 2. laryngea, to the epiglottis, and muscles of the aryte- noid cartilage. Superficiales musculares, viz. to the sternocleido mastoideus, to the sternohyoidei and thyroi- dei, to the thyreo-hyoideus. II. Li NGUALIS. 1 Sublingualis; 2. dorsalis linguae; 3. ra- nina; 4. irregularly to the muscles of the tongue and pharynx.t III. Facialis. 1. Palatina ascendens ; 2. to the glands and muscles of the tongue ; 3. to the submaxillary glands and the tonsilaris ; 4. submentalis ; 5. to the masseter and buc- cinator ; C. coronaria labii inferioris; 7. coronaria labii superioris ; a nasalis lateralis ; b angularis. IV. Pharyngea Ascendens. 1. Three internal pharynge* ; 2. Three posterior to the muscles, to the sympathetic nerve and jugular vein, to the glands ; enters the foramen lacerum posterius. V. Occipitalis. 1. To the digastricus, stylo hyoideus, and sterno cleido mastoideus ; 2. meningea, viz. with the jugular vein through the foramen ; 3. cervicalis descen- dens ; an internal branch inosculates with the vertebralis ; 4. auricularis; 5. occipitalis ascendens. The foramen mastoideum posterius receives a branch to the dura mater. VI. Auricularis Posterior. 1. Branches to the parotid gland, biventer, and mastoid muscles ; 2. to the meatus externus, and membrane of the tympanum ; 3. stylomas- toidea, entering the tympanum, supplying the parts there and the mastoid cells ; 4. ascending behind the ear to its muscles and cartilages ; 5. ascending on the temple. * The arrangement of the branches of the external carotid is very simple. We have only to recollect (he parts which it passes, and then we shall have the names of the arteries. ■ Thus, it passes the thyroid gland ; the tongue ; the face ; the pharynx ; the occiput ; the ear; the inside of the jaw, and the temple. t These vessels may be divided into three sets, of comparative im- portance in a surgical point of view. In the first set there are, the one to the thyroid gland, that to the tongue, and the artery to the face. In the second set,—the one to the inside of the jaw, and those to the temple. The next set is of very little importance, as they lie deep, and are very small; viz. those to the pharynx, occiput, and ear.