11 to come to a straight line, rather than to persevere long in the use of the taxis. All who have seen many cases of femoral hernia must allow, that a cut through the skin and fascia, in an early stage, in many cases, would not be so dangerous as a protracted attempt to reduce the gut by the taxis. We have further to consider, that if it be not possible to reduce a hernia, after having cut through the fascia superficialis, that it never would have been reduced by the taxis; in that case all the steps of the operation must be performed. We now return to the anatomy of the inguinal hernia. If we pull the spermatic cord towards the scrotum, we shall see a thin fascia passing off from the tendon of the external oblique and attached to the cord. It has been called fascia propria. It is very strong in cases of old hernia; but even in the natural state of the parts, it is so distinct that it obscures the margins of the ring. By cut- ting this thin fascia where it is connected with the cord, and by letting go the cord, the upper part of the pillars of the ring will be distinctly shown; but to make the opening of the ring quite apparent, we mnst remove the loose fat with the forceps and scissars from the lower part of the cord; we shall then have such a view as is given in plates as the first stage of the dissection.* This opening has been called a ring, but it might with more reason be described as a triangle, the base of which is the os pubis, and the apex the splitting of the tendinous fibres of the external oblique, and which is rounded off by a set of cross fibres. The superior side, or pillar, is simply in- serted into the symphysis pubis ; but in tbe attachment and form of the lower pillar there is a provision to prevent the compression of the spermatic cord during the con- traction of the muscles, and it is thus—the inferior pillar is formed by the pubic extremity of Poupart’s ligament, which is not a rounded tendon that, viewing it on the outside, we should expect it to be, but it is so formed that part of it passes onwards to be attached to the linea ileo-pectinea by a flat broad horizontal tendon, while its more external part is inserted into the tubercle of the pubes ; so that by this form of insertion there is a groove made for the lodgment of the spermatic cord. * Inguinal ring ; ring of the external oblique ; or external abdo- dominal ring. The anatomy of the canal is most accurately de- scribed in the folio edition of Mr. Charles Bell's Dissections, pub- lished in 1799.