235 rovers the opposite hemisphere. We should then separate the falx from its connection to the crista galii, and throw it backwards towards the tentorium ; and now we can se- parate the hemispheres, so as to have a better view of the arteries of the corpus callosum. The whole of each he- misphere is then to be cut down to the level of the corpus callosum ; for it is needless to attempt to trace the arteries which we see on the surface, dowu to their trunks, as they form a complete net-work in the substance of the brain, which net-work is supported by the pia mater.—We may judge of the uumber of these vessels, by allowing a stream of water to play upon the inass which has beeu removed ; for this will wash aw ay the pulp, leaving only the membrane and vessels. By now separating the two anterior lobes, we may trace the arteries of the corpus callosum towards a trunk, w hich we shall afterwards find to be the anterior cerebri. We may then open the ventricles, and we shall see the choroid plexus loaded with the vessels, which are to supply the most internal parts of the brain. We must now examine the other branches, by raising the brain from the scull. In lifting up the anterior lobes, we shall see the optic nerves; and by the side of them, the trunks of the internal carotids. These must be cut across, but we should leave enough of each artery, to show the origin of the ophthalmica, which passes into the orbit. The several nerves are to be cut through, as we carry the brain back. The tentorium is to be divided, by carrying the knife along the line of the petrous portion of the tem- poral bone. The two vertebral arteries will then be seen,* coming up from the vertebral canal. When these, and the upper part of the spinal marrow are cut through, the whole mass of the brain may be lifted out. The ves- sels may be seen on the base, without any dissection, but they will be made more distinct, by removing the tunica arachnoides.—The enumeration which is given in the Table will be a sufficient description of them. * These arteries are very difficult to trace from tbeir origin from the subclavian, as the greater part of their course is through the ca- nal which is formed in the transverse processes of the cervical ver- tebrae. The spaces between the vertebrae should be cleared of the muscles, &c. to allow of the artery being seen ; or the processes may be cut through. Several branches will be found passing off from the n:tery, in its passage upwards, which are enumerated in the Tail*. We must be careful, in dissecting between the atlas and the occiput, as the artery bulges out so, between theje bones, that it is very liable to be cut.