287 be tied, when cut by the suicide ; for when it is opened by a large incision, the patient will probably be dead before the surgeon is brought to him ; but still, such a question may offer. Mr. John Bell tied it in one case, with success; but the circumstances were peculiar, for the unfortunate person was so cool, and so determined to commit suicide, that after haying read the description of the artery, in Mr- Bell’s Work on Anatomy, he stood before a mirror, and calculated the situation of the carotid so nicely, as to pierce it with a pen-knife; but in consequence of the small size of the external orifice, the haemorrhage was not very great,—the external wound closed, and an aneu- rism formed, for which, Mr. Bell performed the common operation. The necessity of making ourselves intimately acquainted with the bearings of this artery, was strongly impressed upon me, some years ago, by a surgeon relating a case to me, where, after a stab in the neck, there was repeated haemorrhage: on saying to him, Why did you not tie the carotid ? with a most significant shake of his head, he re- plied, “ Catch me at the carotid !” But the times are now altered; for, that it is not now considered a difficult opera- tion to tie this artery, is proved, by some surgeons hav- ing even tried the experiment of tying it for head-ache, and for tumours, See. : but it is to be hoped, that even the great ease with which the artery may be found, will not induce us to repeat any of those experiments. We may now prosecute the dissection tow ards the angle of the jaw, and consider the manner of securing the ves- sels, when cut at the root of the tongue, by the suicide. We see that the larynx and the sterno cleido mastoi- deus protect the carotid, and that the branches most exposed, are those of the lingual-and facial arteries. The cornu of the os hyoides should be carefully marked ; for this is the part which we should feel for, as a guide, by which we shall easily find the lingual and facial arteries. The vessels will generally be easily secured in the wound made by the suicide; for, there will be a large open in- cision, and before we are brought to him, the quantity of blood lost, will have diminished the arterial force. In some cases, it may be difficult to tie the arteries neatly.—I have been obliged, in secondary haemorrhage under the tongue, to pass a needle and thread coarsely round a bleeding suriace. This was against all rule; but I was forced to do it,—because the state of the parts was such, that I could not discover the bleeding vessel,—and as the source ot the haemorrhage was exactly in the middle of