96 In. The upper part of the patella, and through the medium of the patella, and its ligament, into the anterior tubercle of the tibia. Use. To extend the leg, or raise the body. Vastus Externus. Or. 1. The root of the trochanter major ; 2. the whole length of the linea aspera, by fleshy fibres which run obliquely forwards to a middle tendon, where they terminate. In. The patella ; part of the muscle ends in an aponeurosis, which is continued down on the leg, and is firmly fixed to the head of the tibia. -Use. To extend the leg, or raise the body from the seat. Vastus Internus. Or. 1. The fore part of the os femoris: 2. root of the trochanter minor; 3. almost all the inside of the liuea aspera; the fibres run obliquely forwards and downwards, aud it it fleshy considerably lower than the last. In. The patella; part of this also ends in an aponeurosis, which ii continued down the leg. Use. To extend the leg, or raise the body. Crur^EUS. Or. 1. From between the two trochanters of them femoris ; 2. it adheres firmly to all the fore part of the os femoris and joins the vasti muscles. In. The patella, (behind the rectus.) Use. To assist the three last muscles. MUSCLES LYING ON THE BACK OF THE THIGH. FLEXORS OF THE LEG. Semitendinosus. Or. The posterior part of the tuberosity o the os ischium, in common with the long head of the biceps, to whic it is connected by fleshy fibres to the extent of two or three inches. In. The ridge, and inside of the tibia, a little below its tubercle. ' Use. To bend the leg. Semimembranosus. Or. By a strong tendon, from the uppe and backmost part of the tuberosity of the os ischium. In. The inner and back part of the head of the tibia. Use. To bend the leg. N. B. The two last form the inner ham-string. Biceps Flexor Cruris. Or. (Two distinct heads,) the firs longus, in common with the semitendinosus, from the back and outt part of the tuberosity of the ischium; the second, brevis, from th linea aspera,—beginning a little below the insertion of the giuteu inaximus, it continues to take its attachment, till within a hand breadth of the condyle. In. Head of the fibula and ligaments. Use. To bend the leg. Popliteus. Or. The lower and back part of the external condy of the os femoris, on the back of the joint. In. The ridge on the inside of the tibia, a little below its head. Use. To assist in bending the leg.