MUSCLES LYING ON THE BACK OF THE LEG. Gastrocnemius Externcs, or Gemellus. Or. 1. The upper and back part of the internal condyle of the femur, and from that bone, a little above its condyle ; 2. the second head arises tendinous from the upper and back part of the external condyle of the femur. After forming two beautiful bellies, which are united by a middle tendon, the muscle terminates in the tendo Achillis. Soleus, or Gastrocnemius Internus. Or. (Two origins.) 1. The upper and back part of the head of the fibula, continuing to re- ceive many of its fleshy fibres from the posterior part of that bone, for some space below its head. 2. From the back part of the tibia, lower down than the insertion of the popliteus. The flesh of this muscle, covered by the tendon of the gemellus, runs down, nearly to the lower end of the tibia,—by the tendo Achillis. In. Into the backmost part of the os calcis, by the projection of which these muscles gain a considerable lever power. Use. To extend the foot. Pla ntaris. Or. The upper and back part of the external condyle of the femur; it adheres to the ligament of the joint. It passes under the gastrocnemius, and forming a long slender tendon, then runs down by the inside of the tendo Achillis. In. The inside of the os calcis. Use. From its delicacy, and insufficiency to assist the last muscles, it is supposed to have a use in pulling the capsular ligament of the knee from between the bones. THE THREE DEEP MUSCLES, ARE THE— Tibialis Posticus. Or. 1. The fore aud upper part of the tibia, just under the process which joins it to the fibula. 2. Then passing through a perforation in the upper part of the interosseous ligament, it continues its origin from the back part of the fibula next the tibia. 3. From near one half of the upper and back part of the tibia. 4. From the interosseous ligament,—the tendon passes behind the malleolus internus. In. Spreads wide in the bottom of the foot, and is inserted into the os cuneiforme internum and medium; and also to the os calcis, os cuboides, and to the root of the metatarsal bone that sustains the i middle toe. Use. To extend the foot, and to turn the toes inwards. Flexor Longus Digitorum Pedis Perforans. Or. The back part of the tibia, some way below its bead, and near the entry of the medullary artery; from this, it is continued down the inner edge of the bone; also, by tendinous and fleshy fibres, from the outer edge of the tibia; between this double order of fibres the tibialis , posticus muscle lies enclosed. Having passed under two annulai ligaments, it then passes through a sinuosity at the inside of the os calcis, and, about the middle of the sole of the foot, divides into f four tendons, which pass through the slits in the perforatus. Just I before its division, it receives a considerable tendon from that of ■ the flexor pollicis longus. K