183 The muscle which is called triangularis sterni can- not be seen until the sternum and the cartilages of the ribs are removed. The muscle will then be apparent on the inside of the sternum, without any dissection being necessary to show its fibres. TABLE OF TIIE MUSCLES SITUATED OX THE FORE PART OF THE CHEST. Pectoralis Major. Or. 1. The cartilages and bodies of the fifth, sixth, and seventh ribs; here it intermixes with the external, oblique muscle of the abdomen ; 2. almost the whole length of the sternum; 3. the anterior half of the clavicle. In. Outside of the groove for lodging the tendon of the long head of the biceps. The tendon is twisted, before it is inserted. Use. To move the arm forwards, or to draw it down, or to draw it towards the side. Serratcs Magnus, or Anticus. Or. The nine superior ribs, by digitations, which, resembling the teeth of a saw, the anatomist calls them serrated origins. In. The whole base of the scapula, internally, between the inser- tion of the rhomboid, and the origiu of the subscapularis muscles ; it is, in a manner, folded aboat the two angles of the scapula. Use. To roll the scapula, and raise the arm. Peptoralis Minor. Or. The upper edge of the second, third, and fourth; or the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, near their cartilages. In. The coracoid process of the scapula. Use. To bring the scapula forwards and downwards, or to raise the ribs, when the shoulder is fixed. Subclavius. Or. The cartilage that joins the first rib to the sternum. In. Extensively into the lower part of the clavicle. Use. To pull the clavicle downwards. Intercostales Externi. Or. The inferior edge of the rib, the whole length from the spine to near the joining of the ribs with their cartilages. (From this to the sternum, there is only a thin membrane covering the internal intercostal muscle.) In. The upper obtuse edge of the rib below, as far back as the spine. Intercostales Interni. Or. Like the external muscle; the fibres run down, and obliquely backwards. In. Into the margin of the rib below. (From the sternum to the angles of the ribs.)