51 senterie "lands enlarged and cheesy; in such a case, the lacteals will be often found filled with scrophulous matter. In the greater number of those who die of fever, the intestines appear gorged with blood—not inflamed ; but on opening the lower part of the small intestines, we shall ge- nerally discover small ulcers, with thickened edges: this appearance is almost always found in the great intestines of those who have died of dysentery. I may here remark, that a small pouch occasionally projects from the side of the ileon; but this is considered only a lusus,—it is called diverticulum ilii. The most common appearance of disease in the liver, is. the tubercle; and this occasionally suppurates. When we look to the proximity of the colon to the liver, and know, that in the previous inflammation they generally adhere,— we cannot be surprised, that an abscess of the liver should occasionally communicate with the colon, and the matter be discharged by the rectum.—If there be gall stones in the gall bladder, or ducts, we must not be surprised to find the coats thickened, for this is a natural consequence of the irritation. It is hardly possible to say, whether the softening of the ■pleen is to be considered as a mark of disease, for it is generally softened, in all old subjects. The peritoneal coat is very frequently thickened, and particularly in those who have suffered from intermittent fever, as the Walcheren. The pancreas is naturally very firm,—whence it is not unfrequently described, by those not familiar with anatomy, as scirrhous; but I suspect, that, like the other salivary glands, it is very seldom diseased. A softening and lobulated form of the kidney, is the first appearance of disease in this viscus. The kidney may be the seat of primary disease, as of scrophula or stone ; but we should always expect to find it more or less altered in structure, when there has been disease or irritation in the bladder. We should not forget, that there is occasionally a very curious variety in the natural form of the kidney, for, sometimes, the two kidneys are united with each other, so as to present the form of a crescent,— whence this lusus is called the horse shoe kidney. In such cases, I have sometimes found three ureters, but generally only one. It is not unusual to find two ureters come from one of the kidneys, which, in other respects, is of the common form.