215 Serratus Posticus Superior. Or. The spinous process of • the three last vertebrae of the neck, and the two uppermost of the back. In. The second, third, fourth, and fifth ribs. Use. To elevate the ribs and dilate the thorax. Splenius. Or. 1. The four superior processes of the back ; 2. the five iuferior of the neck,—adheres to the ligamentum nuchae. At the third vertebrae of the neck, the splenii recede from each olher, so that part of the complexus muscle is seen. In. 1. The five superior transverse processes of the vertebrae of the neck; 2. the posterior part of the mastoid process ; 3. the os oc- cipitis. Use. To bring the head and upper vertebrae of the neck back- wards and laterally, and, when both act, to pull the head directly backwards. That portion which arises from the five inferior spinous processes of the neck, and is inserted into the mastoid process and os occipitis, is called SPLENIUS CAPITIS ; and that portion which arises from the third and fourth of the back, and is inserted into the five superior transverse processes of the neck, is called splenius COLLI. Sacro Lumbalis. Or. In common with the longissimus dorsi. In. AH the ribs, where they begin to be curved forwards, by long thin tendons. From the upper part of the six or eight lower ribs, arise bundles of thin fleshy fibres, which soon terminate in the inner side of this muscle, and are named musculi ad sacro-lumbalem ACCESSORir. Use. To pull the ribs down, and assist to erect the trunk of the body. Longissimus Dorsi. Or. Tendinous superficially, and fleshy within. I. From the side, and spines of the os sacrum ; 2. from the posterior spine of the os ilii; 3. from all the spinous processes of the loins ; 4. the transverse processes of the vertebrae of the loins. In. 1. All the transverse processes of the vertebrae of the back, chiefly by small double tendons ; 2. by a tendinous and fleshy slip, into the lower edge of all the ribs, except the two inferior, at a little distance from their tubercles. Use. To raise, and keep the trunk of the body erect. From the upper part of this muscle, there runs up a round fleshy portion, which joins with the cervicalis descendens. Cervicalis Descendens. Or. From the upper edge of the four or five superior ribs, and continued from the sacro lumbalis. In. The fourth, fifth, and sixth transverse processes of the vertebrae of the neck, by distinct tendons. 'Use. To turn the neck obliquely backwards, and to one side. Transversalis Colli. Or. The transverse processes of the five uppermost vertebrae of the back, and continued from the longis- ttmus dorsi. In. The transverse processes of the cervical vertebrae, from the se- cond to the sixth.