136 the thigh, instead of persevering in the old method of tying it iu the ham : a plan, which was followed by some of the first surgeons in France, up to the year 1814. Upon removing the skin and superficial cellular mem- brane from the back part of the knee joint, we shaH observe the strong fascia which covers the muscles and great vessels and nerves. Upon slitting up, and dissecting back the fascia, the great nerve will be seen. Below the nerve, there is much cellular membrane and fat, and under this fat, and close to the bone, lie the popliteal artery and vein. They are imbedded iu this tissue, and are intimately connected together; the vein more external, and, in its unin- jected state, clinging round the artery. This view will also show us how difficult it will be, in the greater number of cases, to compress the artery in the ham, when there is to be an amputation below the knee; and will prove the necessity of applying the tourniquet on the fore part of the thigh. If the parts be accurately retained in their natural situation during dissection, it will be seen, that, in order to find the artery, in operation, our incision should be made rather towards the outer ham-string, than imme- diately in the middle. By this means, we keep to the outside of the ischiatic nerve. We shall find the artery lying deep, and covered with the vein ; and, to tie it sepa- rately, it must be disentangled from under the vein. It will perhaps be interesting to consider the change which these parts undergo, in a case of popliteal aneu- rism. The limb is generally cedematous ; sometimes so much so, as to make the pulse, at the inner ankle, to be felt with difficulty, independent of its faintness, from the aneurism. The limb is often considerably bent. Round the whole knee joint, there is much swelling; so that the tumour in the ham is not very distinct, but has more the feeling of general tension. Upon laying open the integuments, the tu- mour comes more distinctly into view, distending the fascit-. The appearance and situation of the parts, particularly of the nerve and great vein, and lesser saphena, will de- pend upon the direction in which the coats of the artery first give way. If the artery has given way towards the inside, then the tumour will increase in that direction chiefly; while the artery itself will, in some degree, be pushed in the opposite direction, and the nerve and the vein will be crowded towards the outer ham-string. We can now easily understand how difficult it must have been, to secure the ends of the artery, at the bottom of such a tumour. We can also imagine the risk of seconr dary haemorrhage, and the danger of violent inflammation