40 As the vena porlfe approaches the liver, it runs parallel with, and between the ducts and the hepatic artery.— They are here included in one sheath of cellular sub- stance, viz. the capsule of Glisson. The vena portae may he considered as a vein which performs the office of an artery in the liver,* by distributing in it that blood which it collects from the arteries of the intestines. But the proper veins of the liver, the vena? cavae hepaticae, re- turn their blood directly to the heart. These, in their extremities, are distributed much like the vena porta?; but upon dissecting the under surface of the liver, they are found to run up towards the attachment of the liver to the diaphragm, aord to enter into the inferior cava near the heart. In dissecting these veins, there is much cellular sub- stance to be cleared away ; and it is not easy, if the injec- tion be at all brittle, to dissect upon their thin coats with- out cutting them, or breaking the injection. The arteries which run to the kidneys, and the spermatic, may now be seen by lifting up the mesocolon; butin order to show them more distinctly,the chylopoetic viscera should be removed, and then we shall have a more distinct view of the trunk of the aorta, and the large branches going off from it. In order to remove the viscera, we should first cut through the cceliac artery at the part where it is dividing into its branches, and through the superior and inferior mesenteric arteries; leaving small portions of each, by which we may recognise them. The oeso- phagus is then to be divided ; and by separating the liver from the diaphragm, the whole of the viscera above the mesocolon may be removed. In lifting the colon, we must take care that we do not cut through the arteries to the kidneys, or the spermatic vessels; indeed, these vessels ought to lie fully exposed before the colon is raised, as the spermatic arteries will be much endangered if we pull the caput coli and sigmoid flexure rudely up. A portion of the rectum should be left. YVe may now observe, that the aorta passes between the crura of the diaphragm, entering the abdomen rather on the left side of the spine, but, that as it passes down, it comes more to the middle. The vena cava is seen to be distinctly upon the right side of the spine, and continuing in the same line * I found it in the camel which was dissected in Windmill Street, in April, 1821, to be as distinctly muscular as the oeso- phagus.