177 which are continued up from the oesophagus to the os hyoides, form the inferior. As we have now finished the dissection of all the mus- cles which run to the throat, we may cut out the larynx, and the pharynx, with the tongue; and after removing the muscles which may have been left attached to them, we should lay open the bag of the pharynx. We may now take a cursory view of the parts which are seen here. (They will be described more particularly afterwards.) We shall see the termination of the wide part of the pharynx in the (esophagus;—the opening of the larynx will he also distinct; and we may now understand, that when the tongue is pushed back, this opening will be closed by the epiglottis, Ir we raise the epiglottis, we shall see the glottis, 'which is the space between the two ayrtenoid carti- . lages. The deepest part of this opening, is called the rima glottidis, as it appears like a slit formed between the two cords which are called the cord.® vocales.—On ; each side of these cords, there is a little cavity, which is i. called sacculus laryngis. The pharynx and tongue, with the os hyoides, may now be dissected Irom the larynx.—If the soft mucous coat is Uhen carefully raised with the forceps and scissars, from “ the back of the larynx, some of the muscles which move Tthe internal cartilages will be exposed;—the first that are ‘seen, will be the two which run from the back part of the icricoid cartilage to the arytenoid cartilages, whence they iare called the crico arytenoidei postici. By then [pulling the thyroid cartilage a little from the cricoid, a 'similar set of fibres will be seen on each side, passing lirom the lateral part of the cricoid to the arytenoid* I these are called the crico ayrtenoidei laterales. A (considerable mass of fibres may now be observed, passing t;rom one arytenoid cartilage to the other. This is divided into three muscles, there being a transversalis, and two oblique. The fibres which run directly across, form the transversalis, and may be always easily shown ; but the iddique are so small, being merely three or four delicate fibres that pass from the base of the one cartilage, to the tip of the other, that they are often cut away with the -mucous membrane. 1 here are still three other muscles described, as running rom one cartilage to the other; but it will be only in the larynx of a very powerful man, that we shall see them distinctly. The names which are given to them, are