309 accesseria antica; while those on the sides, are described as distinct lateral ligaments. The extei'nal lateral runs from the external condyle to the internal, and may be divided into two parts, which we shall easily distinguish ; for one portion restrains the joint, when it is bent to a certain exf,*nt; and the other checks it, when it is too much extended. The radius is articulated with the external condyle; but by rolling it, we shall see that it is also connected with the ulna, by a thickening of the general capsular ligament, which is called ligamentum coronarium. In taking off the muscles, to show the interosseous ligament, we must take care that we do not cut the ligamentum obliquum, or transversale, which runs from the ulna to a point of the radius, below the tubercle. The wrist is rather a complicated joint; but as the move- ments between the bones of the carpus and bones of the fore arm, are principally flexion and extension, we shall have, on the inside and outside, lateral ligaments ;—these ligaments are very loose and much connected with the ge- neral capsule,—which will be found to be very strong, in consequence of the many slips which cross it. The cap- sular ligament does not bind the bones very closely to- gether, but allows of a very considerable degree of lateral motion. When we open the capsular ligament, we shall find that the end of the ulna does not correspond exactly to the cu- neiform and lunar bones, but that there is a portion of cartilage interposed between them. We may now separate the carpus from the radius and ulna, and then examine the connection which is between these two bones. The con- vexity of the head of the ulna will be found attached to the concavity on the radius, by a coronary ligament, which, however, is called ligamentum sacciforme, or membrana sacciformis. The carpal, and the heads of the metacarpal bones, are connected together by capsular ligaments and by accessory slips, which are easily dissected : it would be needless to give them separate names. The metacarpal bones, and the several phalanges of the fingers, are united by capsular and lateral ligaments, which, though very simple, ought to be carefully studied,—as the dislocations of the finger, and particularly of the thumb, are sometimes very trou- blesome.