191 must be thrown down when the vessel contracts upon the blood which is propelled into it by the ventricle, there can be little doubt, that their use is, to prevent the blood rom regurgitating into the ventricle, when it relaxes to .eceive the blood which is pushed into it from the auricle the action of the musculi pectinati. As the lungs have been cut away, we must (following the :ourse of the circulation) pass to the examination of the eft side of the heart. The left auricle is to be opened by cutting upon a probe vhich has been passed into it, from one of the pulmonary reins. When it is fully opened, the same general appear- inces will be seen, as in the right; the finger is then to be >assed into the opening into the left ventricle, which is :alled osteum arteriosum ;—the cavity of the ventricle is •hen to be opened by following the rules which were pre- cribed for opening the right side. Every part in this ventricle will be found essentially the iame as in'the right,—the only difference in the two ven ricles, being, that all the parts in the left, are much tronger than in the right: the reason of this,would appear 0 be, that the blood is to be farther propelled by the left, than by the right. As there are only two sets of columns . nd cords to form the valve between the left auricle and !*ft ventricle, and as they have some resemblance to a ishop’s mitre, the valve has been called the mitral valve. ’he valves at the root of the aorta have certain little ’.minences in their centres, more distinct than those of the : ulmonary artery.—These bodies are, in both arteries, ge- ‘erally called corpora sesamoidea. I shall now describe the manner of showing the more linute structure of the heart. But I would not advise 1 ie young student to attend particularly to this, in his first <issection. The student may, at any time, have an opportunity of examining the minute structure of the heart; as the form ' f the hearts of quadrupeds, and of the greater number of ; arm-blooded animals, is, in all essential points, the same i i that of the human body. We shall find, by the names which are given to the dif- ■;rent parts of the heart, that the older anatomists took livantageof this; for many of the terms will be much note readily understood by dissecting the heart of a sheep, rrof an ox, than by examining such hearts as are gene- ihlly found in those bodies which are brought into the i>isiecting-room.