189 The lobes are again divided into groups of cells; and these again, into a series of smaller vesicles, into which air is admitted, by the minute and less rigid branches ot the bronchi i. The lungs are generally of a reddish colour in chil- dren,—grey in adults, and whitish in old age. We snail find it advantageous to examine the minute > structure of the lungs in the sheep or ox,—because it is es- sentially the same as in man. The lungs of those animals cau be at any time procured in a healthy state, while, in the greater number of bodies, which we examine in the dissecting-room, the lungs are more or less diseased. The i bronchii may be traced to their terminations in the air t cells, upon which the branches of the pulmonary arteries aud veins are distributed. But it is in the turtle tribe, parti- i cularly, that we shall see the air cells, for in these, they are . particularly large: they will be most distinctly demon- • strated, by distending a portion of the lung with air, aud by making various sections of it, when it is dried. As the larynx and oesophagus have already been cut i through, the heart and lungs may now be easily removed :from the chest, by pulling them, with their vessels, &c. I from their connections to the spine, as far as to the dia- ; phragm ; and as the examination of the viscera of the ab- i doraen will probably be finished ere this time, a part of t the diaphragm may be cut out along with the heart. I shall now give only such a discretion of the manner of examining the heart, as will enable the dissector to follow the examination of the minute anatomy of it, in his se- cond dissection.* When the heart is laid with the apex uppermost, the lungs will so fall from it, that the ventricles and vessels will ibe more distinctly seen, than when the heart was in con- nection with the other parts of the body.—But when the >nase of the heart is turned up, the parts will appear very :coufused, because, not only the bronchii, or divisions of the trachea which pass into the lungs, will be now pre- sented,—but also, the aorta and oesophagus will be seen iadhering to the heart. The oesophagus should be entirely removed, and also a considerable portion of the aorta ; the Idivisions of the trachea should then be traced into the lungs; and in doing this, we shall see that the right portion, ior bronchus, divides into three branches, corresponding to * The heart and the great vessels should be completely cleared of 1 their blood, by washing them in water.-