91 principally from the'fibula, is the extensor comments digitorum, which passes to all the toes except the great toe. The separate extensor for the great toe (extensor pollicis propries) arises between the two last muscles. Upon the outer edge of the extensor communis digitorum, there are three muscles, which, as they rise from the fibula, are called peronei: the first is called peroneus longus, and may be traced down, under the outer ankle, as far as the os cuboides, but here its tendon passes into a groove, and then across the sole of the foot, to the cuneiforme in- ternum : this will be seen when the muscles of the foot are dissected. The peroneus secondus or brevis, ruus in the same line along the fibula, but is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the little toe. The peroneus tertius is generally so much connected with the fleshy part of the extensor communis digitorum, that it is difficult to sepa- rate them at this part; we should therefore first dissect its tendon, which is inserted into the metatarsal bone of the toe next the little toe. As there is only one muscle on the fore part of the foot (the extensor brevis digitorum), there can be no dif- ficulty in dissecting it; but it is not so with those in the sole of the foot,—for the muscles there, are not only par- ticularly complicated, but the difficulty is increased in consequence of several of the tendons of the muscles on the leg running between them. The plantar tascia is to be first cut through, about the middle, and then the one half is to be raised towards the heel, and the other towards the toes; but, in removing it, we must carefully avoid lifting the origin and insertions of the flexor digitorum brevis, which arises, in part, from the fascia. After this muscle is dissected, the ab- ductor pollicis. and abductor minimi digiti, which are on each side of the loot, are to be exposed ; then the flexor digitorum brevis is to be cut through at its origin, and is to be carried towards the toes ; this will expose the tendon of the long flexor, to which the flexor acces- sorius, which arises from the os calcis, is attached. From the lb pc part of the same tendon, the lumbricai.es will he seen passing to the toes. When these tendons are cut, and turned, with the lumbricales, towards the toes, the ten- dons of the tibialis posticus, and of the peroneus lougus, will be seen crossing the foot. We may nowr easily dissect the plexor brevis and addwctor pollicis on the one side, and the flexor andADDucToii minimi digiti on the (other. When these are made out, there will only remain the transversalis and the interossei.