33a <m smoothly ; it a nerve, it will tear it into fibres.—When introduced into a lymphatic, it holds aside the lips of the cut, so that the mercury passes into the vessel, by the side of it. If the vessel into which the pipe is introduced, be lar^e, it ought to be tied, round the pipe, with the thread which was previously put under it. The mercury is to be pressed on, by the assistant, with the handle of the knife; for the injector ought never to take his eye oft' the pipe, but he should, according to the direction of his assistant, elevate or depress the tube containing the mercury,—which will re- gulate the force of the injection. The mouth of the ves- sel ought to he moistened at intervals, to prevent its getting dry, which impedes the flow of the mercury. If the lymphatic into which we have introduced the pipe, has filled a considerable number of vessels on the thigh, the mercury is then to be pressed on to the glands in the groin, taking care that the foot is not too much elevated ; as by that, the column of mercury would be raised higher than the vessels in the glands could bear, especially as the lymphatics there, seem to be more easily burst, than at any other part. We should now withdraw the pipe, and look for other lymphatics on the ancle, and proceed with them iu the same manner. If the glands are not completely filled, we ought to en- deavour to find the vessel that has the most influence in filling each gland,—for there generally appears to he one vessel which fills the gland more quickly than the others; and after securing the other vessels, we should fill the gland from it. If we wish to make a good display of the glands at the groin, we ought to tie the secondary vessels arising from them; as the mercury often passes into the secondary vessels, before it fills the gland itself. The vessels ought to be dissected and dried as quickly as possible; for if the limb becomes putrid, the mercury in the lymphatics is liable to become black. After exposing them, and before they are dried, they ought to be tied at re- gular intervals;—they should always be kept in the hori- zontal position, as they are liable to burst when dry, if held perpendicularly. We may generally succeed in in- jecting the lymphatics of the liver, or the lacteals of the intestines, by merely puncturing the vessels with the lancet; for there is here, a surface opposed to the vessels, which keeps them more steady, than those in the limbs. By blowing air into the lymphatics, we may inject them