164 gine. If the fracture has occurred immediately before the patient's dcalh, there will be coagulated blood found upon the bone, and in the fissures; but if the patient has sur- vived for some time, there will be marks of inflamma- tion, and perhaps pus in contact with the scull. If a frac- ture has been produced in making the examination, (which sometimes happens even in a very careful dissec- tor’s hands,) the blood in the fracture will not be coagu- lated, nor will there be any effusion around the portions. If there have been symptoms of fracture after a blow on the upper part, and if we cannot discover one opposite to the part struck, we should look to the temples, or to the base of the scull. It has been already remarked, that a blow on the scalp may be followed by abscess in the brain; but we ought to recollect, that a blow, which, in a greater number of con- stitutions, would be a mere trifle, may, in certain habits, be attended by a train of symptoms which may cause death. If effusion of blood be found between the dura mater and scull, and if a bruise on the scalp corresponds to the part,—we may conclude, that it has been caused by the blow ; but if blood is found between the dura mater and the brain, though we should discover the marks of blows, or even fracture of the scull, still the question may be,— might not the patient have been attacked with apoplexy during a struggle? An interesting question of this kind occurred at the York Assizes, in the summer of 1820. But I shall here introduce the history of a case which oc- curred about twelve years ago, and at the dissection of which, I assisted. This case has always made a great im- pression on my mind, for, as 1 was then very young, I might have given a very erroneous opinion upon it. 11 is related in Dr. Cheyne’s Treatise on Apoplexy. “ An industrious man returning home from his work, found his house empty of every thing,—the bed he was to lie upon, and the tools of his Irade, sold for gin by his wife, whom he found in a gin-shop, where she had been drinking and dancing. He brought her home, and, in the passage of his house, struck her, and ordered her to go up stairs. She refused to go; he carried her upon his shoulders, and the contention continuing up stairs, he struck her again. There having been no one present, we have only the husband’s account of her death. He said, that whilst sitting on her chair, she fell down, upon which he threw her on the bed, conceiving she was in a fit, such as he had seen her in formerly. Some of her neighbours coming in, found her dead. Mr. C. Bell was requested to