233 X 3 The trunk now becomes exceedingly difficult to follow ; for it passes into the spheno palatine fissure. From this part, one branch may be traced into the orbit, which we shall afterwards find, passes through the infra orbital canal, with the infra orbital nerve, to the upper part of the supe- rior maxillary bone, where it inosculates with the branches of the facial; this artery is generally called the jxfra orbital. The next brauch is also very difficult to follow; for it passes at first directly downwards, through the pala- ' tine fissure, into the palatine foramen,—from which, it sends one branch back to the velum, and a larger to the anterior i part of the palate: this last branch, the palatina, may be considered as the extremity of the internal maxillary ar- tery. There are, however, still two branches to be enu- merated ; first, one which creeps by the side of the exter- nal pterygoid process, and is distributed on the upper part of the pharynx, and is called the superior pharyngeal: while another runs into the back part of the nostril, through the spheno palatine hole, and is called the nasal: this is distributed on the lower part of the nostrils; and from it, a branch may often be traced, along the lower part, to the foramen incisivum, to inosculate with the pala- l tine. I have been a little more minute in the description of this artery, than that of the others, for it is one particularly difficult to follow; indeed, in order to see the branches of i it distinctly, we must sacrifice every other part. The stu- i dent, while dissecting this artery, should have the basis of l the scull constantly before him, to enable him to understand’ t the different twists of the artery. We should now turn our attention to the internal carotid. This artery will appear, at the bifurcation, to be more ex- ; tcrna/lhau the external carotid ; but it almost immediately i becomes more internal, and passes deep under the parotid ^ gland, and there it is covered by the great nerve, and lies < close upon the rectus capitis anterior. We then lose it; i for it passes into the foramen caroticum of the temporal 1 bone. During its whole course, we shall find no branches rising from it, except some very small ones, to the nerves and to the Eustachian tube. The internal carotid must now be followed through the ! bone. This may be done, and the branches of the maxil~ I laris interna be still preserved: but we must entirely 1 change our plan of dissection. If we wish merely to gain a knowledge of the course of ( the internal carotid, through the brain, we may remove