213 There are still certain muscles which are connected with the spine and ribs, that have not yet been described, viz. those upon the fore and lateral parts of the neck. Directly on the fore part of the neck, there is, on each side, a long and thin muscle, which is called i-ongds colli. This is sometimes divided into an upper and lower portion : the upper portion runs, obliquely, from the transverse pro- cesses of the third, fourth, and fifLh cervical vertebrae, to the atlas ; while the inferior portion runs, longitudinally, from the bodies of the three upper dorsal vertebrae, to the bodies of the six lower cervical vertebrae. This lower por- tion is often destroyed, by the vertebrae having been broken by turning the body in the course of the dissection. Upon the outer part of the upper portion, there is a small muscle, which runs from the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebra;, to the basilar process of the occipital bone : it is the rectus an- ticus major:—the rectus anticus minor being a very small muscle, which rises from the middle of the atlas, and passes to the edge of the condyle of the occiput. This last is often coufounded with another trifling muscle—the rectus lateralis, which arises from the transverse pro- cess of the atlas, and is inserted between the condyle of the occiput, and the mastoid process. These muscles which have just been described, may be dissected before those of the back ; so may also the sca* leni, which are the muscles that run from the trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae, to the first and * second rib. These muscles are distinguished from each other, by the terms scalenus anticus, scalenus medius, and scalenus posticus. We shall have no difficulty in • showing the anticus as a distinct muscle, but the medius and ; posticus are so closely connected, that they are, by many anatomists, described as one muscle. In the following Table, the muscles are arranged nearly • in the order in which they should be dissected. TABLE OF THE MUSCLES OF THE BACK. Trapezius, or Cucularis. Or. 1. The protuberance in the • middle of the os occipitis, by a thin membranous tendon, which co- 1 ms part of the splenius and complexus muscles ; 2. from the trans-