148 of tho ventricles; for it is now seen to stretch from the anterior to the posterior part, in the form of an arch. If the brain be tolerably firm, we may be able to see the septum of the ventricles, which is formed by a thin lamina of medullary matter that passes down perpendicularly from the lower surface of the corpus callosum, towards the floor of the ventricle, and which we shall afterwards find to be formed by the fornix. In consequence of this portion of medullary matter forming a transparent septum between the right and left ventricles, it has been called the septum lucidum. But we shall very seldom get a brain sufficiently firm, to allow of the septum being seen. A small slip of writing paper should now be cut to the shape of the corpus callosum, and laid on its upper sur- face; this will give the corpus callosum such a degree of firmness, that, after having cut it through at its anterior part, we shall be enabled to tear it back : in doing this, the septum lucidum is necessarily destroyed,—but we may observe, that, as it is torn, it separates into two lamina?, that appear to have a cavity between them, and which has been called the fifth ventricle. When the corpus callosum is laid back as far as its connection with the medullary matter of the posterior lobe, the fornix will be seen, connected to the medullary matter of the anterior lobe, and branching into two por- tions behind. But, in tearing back the corpus callosum and septum lucidum, in a soft brain, we are very apt to tear up a portion of the fornix, just at the point of its division, and thus to make the appearance of a hole in it. Before tracing the fornix, we should attend to the geueral form of the lateral ventricles. The cavities which have been already exposed, are called the anterior and posterior horns, or sinuses; but there is yet another sinus, which is called the inferior, or middle horn. This last should now be laid opeu ; but as it lies very deep in the middle lobe, it will be necessary to cut away a large quantity of the brain, before we can show it. The knife may be placed on the upper part of the corpus striatum, and carried, in a slanting direction, towards the an- gle formed by the union of the squamous and petrous por tions of the temporal bone; and it may be continued, in the same line, from the anterior to the posterior part of the brain. Even this large cut may not be sufficient to ex- pose the inferior sinus; but, in cutting more, we must proceed cautiously. The posterior crus of the fornix will direct us to the opening of the sinus ;—we should past