2*23 with the transverse process, by a distinct capsular liga- ment. From the back part of the transverse process-, a ligament will be found running to the tubercle of the rib; this is called the ligamentum transversale exter- num. if we forcibly separate the ribs from each other, we shall discover two other ligaments, which come from the transverse processes of the vertebras, and are attached to the neck of the rib. The one which is on the inside, and which comes from the lower part of the transverse process of the vertebra, and is attached to the neck of the rib immediately below it, is the ligamentum cervicis cost.*: internum. The other is on the back part : it arises from the root of the transverse process,—crosses the first, and is inserted into the upper edge of the neck of the rib ; it is called the ligamentum cervicis cost.® ex- ternum. * LIGAMENTS BETWEEN EACH RIB AND THE SPINE. 1. Ligamentum CapitelU Costce, or Ligamentum An- terius. 2. Ligamenla Capsularia Capitelli. 3. Ligamentum Capsulare. (Of the union with the transverse process.) 4. Transversale Externum. 5* Cervicis Internum. 6. Externum. The cartilages of the seven true ribs, are united to the sternum in a simple manner ; and to show the connection, very little dissection is necessary. The sternal extremities of the bony part of the rib being concave, receive the ends of the cartilages, which are convex ; the other extremity of each cartilage is implanted into the concavities on the lateral part of the sternum. Surrounding each of these points of union, there are capsular ligaments; and the uuion to the sternum is strengthened by slips of ligameut, running from the rib, upon the sternum ; these slips have been named according to the direction they run; those running immediately from the rib to the sternum, are called ligamenta radiatim disjecta;, add some slips. * When the bones are examined, it is evident that the ligaments of the 1st, 11th, and 12th ribs must he different from the others, since they are each connected with one vertebra only. There is no articulation between the two last, and the transverse processes.