194 seen. These valves are more frequently perforated in the edges, than those of the aorta. Of opening the left side of tbi heart.—Introduce the blade of the scissars into one of the pulmonic veins, and, insinuating it into the part of the auricle which pro- jects by the sides of the pulmonic artery, slit it up. There JS little to be observed in this auricle : the musculi pecti- ^ati are not so strong, nor so evident upon its inside, as thpse ot tbe right auricle. The pulmonic veins pass almost always into the cavity by four openings; those from the right lung, are closer together than the left branches. To expose the left ventricle, make an incision as far to- wards the leftside of the artery and vein which run down tromthe left auricle towards the apex, as the incision made to lay open the right ventricle was, to the right of these vessels. In opening this ventricle, there is less fear «»f cutting upon the column® carneae, or upon the septum ; •or, as the right ventricle is open, the septum can be seen, and we can cut immediately on the other side of it; while the column® are collected in the further side of the ven- tricle, round the opening of the auricle, and are not much exposed to the knife. Continuing the upper part of the incision round under the projecting auricle, slit up the aorta, to show its valves : in doing which, that branch of the left coronary artery which comes out under the mar- gin of the left auricle, must be cut through. When this ventricle is laid open, that part which is towards the sep- tum, and more particularly, near the artery, will not ap- pear rugged with the interlacements of the column® carne®, or lacerli, as they are sometimes called. The columns which are connected with the mitral valve, are thick and short, and confined in a corner of the ventricle ; nor do they spread their roots so extensively, as those of the right ventricle. Turning our attention to the semilunar, or sigmoid valves; we may observe, in the child, that they are delicate and loosely floating membranes, variegated in part by a white opacity; while their edges are at some places so transparent, that there appears often to be deficiencies of the valve near the edge, when there are none.—There are, however, such deficiencies sometimes. In the adult, these valves acquire greater firmness and strength,and are opaque; and there is always on the middle of each valve, a little body, which is called corpus sesamoideum, or corpus aurantii. Behind each of these valves, are seen the lesser sinuses of the aorta, or, as they are sometimes