313 pass to the muscles of the scapula, arc distributed so much on the surface of the bone, that, before we can show them, it will be necessary to remove the mus- cular fibres. The superficial dissection which has been begun on the deltoid, may be continued down upon the triceps. As we approach the elbow, we must carefully avoid the super- ficial branches, .for they form inosculations with those of the fore arm. Those on the external part, are branches Irom the circumflexa posterior, and the profunda su- perior ; while those on the inside, are from the profunda inferior, and the anastomotica. We may now turn the arm, and continue the dissection of the trunk. An incision is to be made, down to the el- bow, in the course of the artery: when the skin is dis- sected off, a thin facia will he seen to pass from the in- side of the triceps to the biceps ; when this is opened, the trunk will be seen on the inside of the biceps,—not now en- veloped in a plexus of nerves, but with the radial, or me- dian nerve, lying close upon the inner side of it. The first branch (which has a name) we shall find, by looking for the muscular spiral nerve, or between the heads of the triceps.—The artery is called the profunda superior; we may trace it into the deep parts of the arm, by following it along with the nerve. We may now for a moment disregard the branches, and trace the trunk to the elbow, taking care not to cut any vessels. On the side of the artery next to the biceps, we shall see a great number of branches going off; these, how- ever, are merely muscular branches, and there are no par- ticular names for them. The only one of these, which we should particularly observe, is a trunk, passing off at the lower part of the coraco brachialis to the bone: it is called nutritia magna humeri. On the side of the ar- tery nearest to the brachialis interims, we shall find three, four, or five branches, all taking nearly the same course towards the inside of the elbow, and to communicate with the recurrent arteries of the fore arm. The upper one is generally called the profunda inferior; while the largest of those below, is the anastomoticus magnus,—and the next in size, the anastomoticus minor. We shall now have traced the main trunk to the bend of the arm, where it generally divides into the radial and ulnar.* * The bifurcation occasionally takes place higher up on the arm ; but in what proportion of instances, I have a dillioulty of determin- £ a