127 traced, under the aponeurosis, to the skin on the fore part of the foot, where it unites, on the outer part, with the com- municans tibialis, and, on the inner part, with the internal plantar branches. Those branches on the fore part of the foot, are sometimes called Metatarsal Nerves. We may now return to the dissection of the deep nerve, which is sometimes called the Anterior Tibial Nerve, as it accom- panies the artery. It runs almost close upon the interos- seous ligament, between the deep muscles, as far as the ankle,—there it divides into two branches, which are called Ramus Dorsalis Pedis Profundus, and Superficialis. The profundus may be traced, under the extensor brevis, to the outside of the tarsus. The superficialis, though so called, runs deep under the tendons, and at last comes out be- twixt the great and second toe. SURGICAL DISSECTION OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. I shall now endeavour so to describe the manner of making the dissection, as to enable the student to under- stand the principle points of the anatomy by which he is to be guided in the treatment of many of the most im- portant cases in surgery. The arteries should not be injected,—nor should the ab- domen be opened : and if we wish to examine the parts connected with the subject of hernia, we should not make the deep dissection, until we have seen the relative situa- tions of the great arteries; because, the most important questions which may be understood from the views of the natural state of the parts, relate to the different operations which it may be necessary to perform for the various kinds ofaneurism. But here I must beg the studentto understand, that he will be sadly disappointed, if he expects to see the parts appear as distinctly in an operation, as he will now see them, on dissection. He should, therefore, at the time he is investigating the anatomy, not only read the histories of all the cases and operations which have been published, but also those works in which the principles that are to guide ua in determining on the mode of operating, are dis-