222 ample, in the badger, the jaw bone is locked into the gle- noid cavity, so that it is purely a simple hinge joint; and there are only short lateral lig/unents. In the graminivo- rous animal, the cavity in the temporal bone is so shallow, that much lateral motion is allowed ; and the lateral liga- ments are long. The joint in the human body is of an intermediate form; for the jaw bone is not so nicely adapted to the hollows in the temporal bone,—nor are the ligaments so short, as in the carnivorous animal« but the cavity is deeper, and the condyle is rounder, than in the graminivorous animal. In the dissection of the external part of the joint, we shall find a ligament running from the lower margin of the zygomatic process,—this may be divided into two portions, one of which runs perpendicularly to the neck, the other to the condyle of the jaw; it is called LIGA- MENTUM LATERALE EXTERNUM. When we look on the inside, we shall see a ligament rising from the edge of the glenoid fissure, and the Eusta- chian tube, and running to the jaw bone, midway between the angle and the condyle; this is the ligamentum late- rale internum. Both of these ligaments are iutimately connected with the ligamentum capsulare, which arises from the edge of the glenoid cavity, and is attached to the neck of the bone. When we cut through the capsular ligament, we shall find that the interior of the joint is divided into two parts, by an inter articular cartilage, to the edges of which the capsular ligament is attached. ' LIGAMENTS OF THE RIBS. The ligaments which attach the ribs to the spine, are very simple. We may cut out three of the middle ver- tebras, with their corresponding ribs, and then cut through the ribs, so as to leave only about three inches attached to the spine. When the pleura is torn off, the head of each rib will be seen to be articulated with the interver- tebral substance of two vertebras. From the head of each rib, we shall see ligamentous bands running to tbe body of each vertebra, which are called ligamenta capitelli costarum (sometimes called Ligamenta An- tica). If we cut through these ligaments, we shall find that the two articulating surfaces on the head of the rib, are attached, by separate capsular ligaments, to the- two vertebra;; the back part of the rib is also articulated I