39 liver, and gives a branch, which is called the cystica, to the gall bladder. In dissecting the root of the coeliac artery, and part of the aorta, betwixt it and the superior mesenteric artery, we see the coeliac plexus, which is formed by branches lrom the semilunar ganglions of the sympathetic nerves, and from the eighth pair, which is principally distributed to the stomach. From this plexus an immense number of smaller nerves are sent out, forming lesser plexuses, along th e mesentery, and to the duodenum, liver, spleen, &c. Of the vena forte.—The vena portae is formed by the union of the veins from the intestinal canal, and from those of the spleen and pancreas. Near the liver, these veins are collected from three great branches, corespond- ing to the coeliac, upper and lower mesenteric arteries. The trunk of the venaport® lies obliquely across the spine, upon the body, and under the head of the pancreas. The branch answering to the cceliac, is the splenic vein. It forms one of the great divisions of the vena port®, as it gathers the blood from the spleen, stomach, pancreas, and omentum ; it passes from the left towards the right side'. The veins coming up from the lywer part of the belly, corresponding to the mesenteric arteries, are the mesente- rica major, and the mesenterica minor. All the veins from the mesentery, and from one half of the colon, meeting together, form the first of these; w hich, from its size, is the most important veiu of the intestines. Its branches run in company with the extremities of the superior mesenteric artery, which pass from the duodenum, along the track of the intestines, to the middle of the colon. This vein joins the trunk of the vena port®. The vena mesenterica minor carries back the blood from the left side of the colon, and from the rectum, accompanying the lower mesenteric artery in its whole course. From the branch which mounts up upon the back of the rectum, it has been called the haemorrhoidea interna. This vein joins sometimes with the splenica; more commonly with the mesenterica major. As the great mesenteric trunk goes up under the duodenum, it receives the veins of the pyloric orifice, and those answering to the pancreatico-duodenal artery. As the trunk of the vena port® runs across the spine towards the liver, it receives the veins from the right side of the duodenum, and lesser arch of the stomach, answering to the lesser coronary, or right coronary of the stomach ; then mounting obliquely upwards and towards the right side, it enters the porta of the liver, and dividing into two great branches, forms the great sinus of the liver. E 2