294 If he now persevere* in the use of instruments, to cure the supposed stricture, he may produce such a stale of the parts as will most certainly he followed by astricUire, which is generally the cause of a horrible and lingering death. This subject should be studied by reading all the best authors who have written on it. The question of oesophagotomy ma\ now be considered. The appearance of the natural parts will prove, that this i* one of those operations in which there will be more diffi- culty in deciding upon the propriety, than on the man- ner, of performing it. I have once assisted in opening the oesophagus, to relieve a stricture by which the patient would have been de- stroyed in two or three days:—though the case terminated fatally, I saw no reason for being afraid to repeat the operation, should a patient offer, whose stricture has be- come so narrow as to make death, from starvation, ine- vitable. If we make a section of the scull, such as is de- scribed at page 262, we may understand how a tube may be passed from the nose into the larynx ;—how a polypus hanging down from the posterior nostril, may produce suf- focation ;—how it maybe possible to restrain a violent haemorrhage from the nose, by plugging up the posterior nostrils. We may now understand how much the ethmoid bone, and even the brain, may be endangered by the forcible ex- traction of polypi.—The principles upon which the differ- ent operations of fistula lachrymalis are to be performed, may be seen. We shall also be able to determine upon the most favourable position of the head, in cases where there is a collection of matter in the antrum ;—and by pul- ling the second molaris, we shall see that a free exit might be given to matter collected in that cavity. We may perform the operation of trephine upon the subject, with much advantage ;for we may make example* of the various fractures which require operation, aud at the same time see the greater number of difficulties which may occur during the operation on a patient. If we allow the head to fall on the ground, we shall probably produce simple fracture, with extensive fissure i if we strike it a smart blow with a hammer, we shall per- haps produce a stellated fracture;—in such a case as thrift, we may, with small levers and forceps, pick away the pieces of bone, without using the trephine. When the scull is struck with a sharp point, though there will be only a de-