292 tempts to extirpate this gland, must be a bold one. But the greatest objection to attempting such an operation, is, that the gland is seldom in such a state as to require re- moval, without the larynx being also involved in the disease. The deep dissection may be continued up to the space behind the jaw, and then we shall discover a portion of fascia which runs from the angle of the jaw towards the styloid process and the os hyoides. This may encumber us much, in extirpating tumours from this part. We should now particularly mark the situation and appearance of the stylo hyoidetis muscle, as it is a boundary,—beyond which, we should carry a scalpel with great hesitation. When we extirpate tumours that are under this muscle, the ope- ration should rather be, by scooping, and tearing with the handle of the knife, than by cutting with a sharp blade. We may now cut across the masseter muscle, and saw through the jaw, near the mental foramen, and remove one side of it. We shall then see the nerve enter into the jaw; which will explain the reason of the violent pain that is sometimes felt after fracture of the jaw, or where we attempt to pull away a piece of carious hone. We shall also see the artery entering into the foramen ; this is sometimes torn in pulling the last tooth, and it then bleed* violently.* After the mouth has been thoroughly cleansed, the ra- nina artery, by the side of the frenum, maybe exposed.— This is the vessel which has been cut in those children who have died of bleeding in consequence of dividing the fre- nitm linguae. We are sometimes obliged, even against our judgment, to perform this operation.—I have always done it safely, while the child was crying; for then the mouth is wide open, and the tongue is turned up : it is only ne- cessary to make such a scratch as will draw blood.—for that will satisfy the mother. By the side of the frenum, we shall find the ducts of the subnia.xillary gland : to these we should look, when there * We have been told, on good authority, that patients have ewn died in consequence of this. An anecdote was related to me by an Irish surgeon, which maj afford a useful hint:—During the lime that several surgeons were consulting on the propriety ot tyiner the carotid ! for haemorrhage from this artery, one of the students asked the patient for the tooth which had been extracted ; he then very coolly pushed it into its piuce again,—and there was no more hae- morrhage.