19 ternal, as far down as the edge of Poupart’s ligament. The ligament is then to be divided into two lamin®, by forcing the handle of a knife between the point of union of the external and internal oblique with it; by pushing the knife towards the thigh, it will pass under the fascia lata; then by moving it in a horizontal direction, between the pubes and ilium, the external oblique and fascia lata, which are connected together through the medium of the super- ficial part of Poupart’s ligament, will be so completely separated from the parts below, that the ligament will appear to be formed by them only. But if we cut through the attachment of the ligament to the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium, and through the fascia lata as far down as the crescentic arch (to save the parts below, it is useful to keep the handle of the knife under the fascia as a directory to cut upon), we shall theu have a view very similar to that we have just destroyed, for we shall see that the deep crescentic fascia has nearly the same form as the superficial arch. This deep arch may be described as being formed, on the iliac side of the vessels, by a con- nection between the fascia iliacaand theobiiquus internus and transversalis, and part of Poupart’s ligament; and on the pubic side, by the fascia transversalis, in union with the insertions of the tendons of the two muscles into the iinea ileo-pectinea. But this we shall more fully compre- hend by examining the parts from within. On looking into the pelvis, we see the artery and vein, surrounded by a pro- per sheath, lying upon the iliac fascia, which is the name given to that which covers the iliacus internus and psoas magnus. If we hold up the part of the abdominal muscles which has been left, and look under them towards the thigh, we shall see an opening like the mouth of a funnel, into which the vessels, surrounded by their sheath, pass. The posterior boundary of this space may be described as form- ed by a prolongation from the fascia iliaca, and from which, for a certain space, the vessels can be easily separated. The anterior boundary may be traced from the fascia trans- versalis; being in fact, that which is in close connection with the abdominal muscles, and forms part of that which has been called the deep crescentic arch. At a short distance below Poupart’s ligament, the fascia iliaca and transversalis become so closely connected with each other,, and with the cellular membrane which forms the sheath of the vessels, that they cannot be traced farther down upon the thigh. The space which has just been described as bounded by the fascia iliaca and fascia transversalis, has received vari-