15 C 2 the flattened and dispersed stale of the cord at its upper part, we can understand how it may he split by the descent of a herniary tumour. In such a case, the vas deferens is sometimes found on the anterior part, and the vessels behind ; but the vessels are more frequently on the fore part of the sac. We may now show what coverings the sac of a hernia would receive in its passage to the scrotum. In the common inguinal hernia, the peritoneum pushes before it, that cellular membrane which has been called part of the trausversalis fascia, and which we showed must be separated from the cord before the internal ring can be made; this, when condensed, forms the innermost cover- ing of the sac. The hernia then passes under the trans- versalis and internal oblique, and as the cremaster muscle runs from the internal oblique to the cord, it follows, that if the hernia lies above the cord, the sac must be between the cremaster and the cord; the fibres of the cremasler w hich lie above the sac will then be separated, by it, from each other, so that the cellular membrane which connects the scattered fibres, will form that which is called the cre- mastic or spermatic fascia. The hernia then passes through the external ring. In the early part of the dissection, there was a membrane shown passing from the margins of the ring to the cord, so as to make the ring indistinct; this membrane, which is sometimes called fascia propria, must also form one of the coverings. The hernia may- now either lie in the groin, or pass into the scrotum, and in either case it will be covered by the condensed cellular membrane, called fascia superficialis. If a patient had worn a truss for some time, all these fascial might be distinctly seen in an operation; but it is of more importance to recollect, that the peritoneum, which forms the sac, aud which, in its natural state, is very thin, would be fouud very much thickened, and particu- larly at the neck of the sac ; indeed it is occasionally so much thickened, that it may be separated into a dozen layers. But if it were necessary to perform an operation for a hernia which had come down only a few hours be- fore,—after having cut through the skin and fat, instead of finding distinct fascite, such as have been described, only a little cellular membrane would be seen covering the sac, and the sac itself would be so thin and transparent, that the colour of the gut may be seen shining through it. The anatomy of the fasciae in congenital hernia is much the same ; but the sac which is formed by the tunica vagi-