10 are generally represcnled in plates as the first stage of the dissection, will not yet he visible; hut farther dissection will be required, to show them; for a fascia, which shall be presently described, covers the ring, so that only a pro- minence is seen, aud which we shall find to be formed by the spermatic cord. It is of great importance to make this dissection in the manner that has been pointed out, because much of the pathology of femoral hernia may be explained by it. By- looking narrowly into the depression which has been form- ed by raising the fascia superficialis, we may see lymphatic vessels passing across from the glands to perforate a mem- brane, which, though it appears to be a continuation of the lower edge of Poupart’s ligament, has been, by some, described as a distinct fascia, under the name of cribri- form, in consequence of the appearance which it presents when the lymphatics are cut short. Occasionally a small gland is projected through the membrane. The general course of the femoral hernia is either to displace this gland, or to break through the meshes of the net-work ; and then it will pass into the hollow which we have just de- scribed. The natural course of the hernia would he, to de- scend upon the thigh ; but it is prevented from passing farther down, than about an inch, on account of the close connection which exists between the fascia superficialis and the glands of the groin ; but when the hernia increases in size, as it is prevented from descending upon the thigh, it turns up and breaks through the slight connection which there is between the pubic part of the ligament and the fascia superficialis, and thus takes the place of an inguinal hernia. This explains to us that the acute angle made in the gut is the principal cause of stricture in femoral her- nia ; and from the knowledge of this, we deduce principles upon which we must proceed to attempt the reduction of femoral hernia, when so situated. We must endeavour to bring the base of the sac to a straight line with the neck ; and to succeed in doing this, we must first push the tu- mour downwards. It has occasionally happened that a femoral hernia has passed up before the surgeon had finished the operation. We have heard the surgeon blamed for operating in such a case. It has been said, that the gut going up before the stricture was cut, proved that there was no necessity for the operation; but instead of joining in the censure, we think that it would be even advisable, in some cases, to cut through the fascia superficialis, so as to allow the sac