37 from Ihe left-part of the colon, is united to the last; the vena colica media, the vena colica dexlra, and the vena ilio coiica, being united, return the blood from the arch of the colon; while one great branch, which is promiscu- ously divided among the small intestines, carries back their blood to the vena port®. -These veins will be further traced in the next view of the intestines. The dissection of the cceliac artery, of the trunk of the vena port®, of the arteries and veins of the stomach, and of the corresponding arteries of the liver, gall-ducts, and pancreas, may now be made. Separate the arch of the colon from the stomach, and lay it down in the manner described in the first dissection. There is now much difficult dissection. The stomach will be seen lying under the projecting liver; the spleen towards the left end of the stomach ; the pancreas will be found lying directly across the aorta, reaching from the spleen to the duodenum, and involved in the root of the mesocolon. The cceliac artery supplies all the parts lying in the upper division of the belly, above the mesocolon. It is the second artery of the abdominal aorta, coming off at the point where the great artery seems to be extricating itself from the diaphragm. It rises directly from the aorta, as a short trunk, which divides quickly into branches. The best way to dissect this artery, is, to distend the stomach slightly, and then to pull it down, so that we may dissect the lesser omentum from betwixt it and the liver. The artery will then be found, dividing at once into many branches; and as they depart in different directions from one point, as from a centre, the trunk is called the axis arlerice coeliacce. The arteria coroxaria vE.vTRicuLi will be found going off towards the leftside, and spreading largely over the upper part of the stomach. If, in dissecting it where it goes off from the trunk of the cceliac, it is found to be larger than the other branches, it may be expected to send a branch to the liver, and we should then be more cau- tious in dissecting in that direction; for the vessel will pass to the right, and then upwards, till it be lost in the fossa ductus venosi. When there is no branch sent to the liver, it holds its course to the left or superior orifice of the stomach. Here it divides into two branches : one of which encircles the cardiac orifice, and inosculates with the gastro-epiploic artery above the spleen; the other runs along the lesser arch of the stomach, sends a branch over the side of the stomach, and, continuing its course, iuoscu- E