29 D 3 stomach, Sec. above it. When the colon is distended, we can understand the terms which are given to its several parts, viz. caput; ceecum; processus vermiformis; as- cending part of the arch; transverse part of the arch; descending part; and sigmoid flexure. The small intestines are seen lying in a confused mass within the embrace of the colon: to unravel them, the blow-pipe should again be put into the lower part of the ileon ; and then by blowing upwards, the whole of the iutestinura tenue, or small intestines, will be distended. The upper part, which will be now easily found, should be tied just before it passes under the mesocolon. The small intestines are generally divided into five parts, three of which are given to the upper portion, which is called jejunum, and two to the lower, viz. the ileon. The arteries seen in this view, are all branches either of the superior or inferior mesenteric. The small intestines may now be removed from the mesentery, by cutting away all that is between the ligature on the ileon, and that on the jejunum. We may now examine the viscera above the line of the colon. If the blow-pipe be introduced iuto the remaining part of the jejunum, the air will distend the duodenum and the stomach. The colon is to be pulled down- wards, and is then to be removed by dissecting away the mesocolon from the parts below it; by doing so, we shall get a view of the liver, the stomach and spleen, the duo- denum and pancreas. If we pull down the stomach, we shall see the oesophagus coming through the diaphragm, and entering the cardiac orifice of the stomach ; upon its left side we shall see the spleen, attached by a set of small vessels. Tracing the arch of the stomach downwards, we come to the pylorus; by taking this between the finger and thumb, we shall discover a thickening of the coats of the stomach, which forms the sphincter of the pylorus, improperly called a valve. Immediately below the sphinc- ter, is the beginning of the duodenum; this gut appears generally so large, as, from its size, to entitle it to the name of venlricuius secundus; it maybe traced up to- wards the gall bladder, and then, taking an irregular turn upon itself, it passes- towards the left side, across the spine: at the point where it is passing over the spine, we see that it is bound down by the mesocolon,—and here we may also observe, that the peritoneum does not so entirely cover it as it does the other intestines. The most im- portant parts which we have to attetid to in the duodenuili are the'ducts which pass into it. The edge of the livfet