Ill taut parts of that division of the body, which he is about to examine. This will assist him very much in learning the distribution of the arteries, for he will find that the number of branches will very nearly correspond with the number of the more important parts. He will find, for example, that the arteries which go off from the lower part of the aorta may be divided into three classes : 1. The arteries which pass down to supply the thigh and leg. 2. Those which supply the muscles on the pelvis. 3. The branches which are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis. Those which pass to the thigh and leg will be afterwards subdivided. I shall now proceed to describe the manner in which those that supply the pelvis are to be traced. After the cellular membrane and peritoneum are re- moved from the aorta, it will be seen to divide into two great branches, viz. the common iliacs. From the point of bifurcation there is likewise a small vessel passing off, which is called the Saera Media. The common iliac of either side may be very easily exposed, for there are seldom any branches given off by it: if there be one, it will probably be that which passes between the vertebras and the ilium, and is called the ilio lumbalis. But this artery more generally rises from the .internal iliac. If we trace the common iliac for about an inch and a half, we shall find it divide into two branches,—the external and internal iliacs. The external iliac is the vessel which supplies the branches of the first class enumerated ; but at present we should not trace it farther than to the ligament of Poupart. We may now return to the internal iliac, from which the two next classes of branches are given off. These are particularly difficult to trace ; and were we not to recollect that they formed two distinct classes, it would be difficult to understand them. The trunk, after leaving the common iliac, is almost concealed by the great veins; but these may be cut away, because, in the present dissection, every thing should be removed that impedes our view of the arteries. The first branch that is seen, will probably be that which has been already described as comiug occasionally from the com- mon iliac, viz. the ilia lumbalis. If the subject be very young, we shall find that the trunk of the internal iliac is continued up on the side of the bladder, and then becomes a ligamentous cord, which may be traced towards the um- L 2