98 In. Into the extremity of the last joint of the fonr lesser toes. Use. To bend the last joint of the toes. This muscle is assisted by tho accessorius. See dissection of the sole of the foot. Plexor Longus Follicis Pedis. Or. By an acute, tendinous, and fleshy beginning from the posterior part of the fibula, some way below its head, being continued down the same bone, almost to its inferior extremity, by a double order of oblique fleshy fibres; its tehdon passes under an annular ligament at the inner ankle. In. Into the last joint of the great toe. It generally sends a small tendon to the os calcis. Use. To bend the last joint of this toe. MUSCLES ON THE FORE PART OF THE LEG. Peroneus Longus. Or. From the head, and whole length of the fibula, as far down as to within a hand’s breadth of the ankle. The tendon passes through a channel at the outer ankle, at the back of the lower head of the fibula ; it then runs along a groove in the os cuboides, across the sole of the foot. In. The root of the metatarsal bone that sustains the great toe, and the os cuneiforme internum. Use. To move the foot outwards, and to press down the ball of the great toe. Peroneus Brevis. Or. From the middle and lower part of the fibula; from the fibula, above the middle; from the outer side of the anterior spine of this bone ; and also from its round edge externally, the fibres running obliquely outwards, towards a tendon on its ex- ternal side. It sends off a round tendon, which passes through the groove at the outer ankle, being there included under the same liga- ment with that of the preceding muscle ; and a little farther, it runs through an appropriate sheath. In. The root and external part of the metatarsal bone that sustains the little toe. Use. To direct the foot outwards, and by pressing the ball of the great toe to the ground, to assist in carrying forwards the whole body. Peroneus Tertius. Or. The middle of the fibula, down to near its inferior extremity ; the tendon passes under the annular liga- ment. In. The root of the metatarsal bone that sustains the little toe. Use. To assist the other peronei muscles. N. B. The belly of this muscle is united to the extensor digitorum. Tibialis Anticus. Or. 1. The process of the tibia, to which the fibula is connected above. 2. The outside of the tibia. 3. The upper part of the interosseous ligament. In. The inside of the os cuneiforme internum, and nearer ex- tremity of the metatarsal bone that sustains the great toe. Use. To bring the foot to right angles with the leg.