190 the three lobes,—while the left, is divided only into two. By now removing the remaining part of the pericardium, the branches of the pulmonary artery will be seen, and the pulmonary veins may be traced into the left auricle. The lungs may then be separated from the heart, by cut- ting through the four or Jive pulmonary veins, and the branches of the pulmonary artery. We may now examine the interior of the heart, follow- ing, in our dissection, the course by which the blood passes through the heart. We should pass a probe, or the handle of a knife, from the inferior into the superior cava; and then lay open the vessels, and the cavity, in the line of the probe :—this will show the meeting of the great veins which form that part of the auricle that is called sinus,—to the lateral part of which, the portion properly called auricle, will be seen. This latter part is to be opened by the scissars, and then the muscular bands which are called jiusculi pectinati, ; will be seen. With this view before us, we cannot avoid seeing the rl opening into the ventricle, which is called osteum veso- 3Um ;—if we push our finger into this opening, we shall feel the rough inner surface of the right ventricle. To open this ventricle, we should push the finger as far down as we can, and cut upon it; the opening maybe enlarged, by cutting in a direction towards the pulmonary artery. If this does not give sufficient room for seeing the parts j within the ventricle, a portion may be cut out. The first thing we shall notice, is, that the interior of the ventricle is very irregular, in consequence of a number of muscular ; bands running across it, and which are called colvmkee carneje. We may observe that they are more numerous towards the osteum venosum, than towards the pulmonary artery;—and when we examine the osteum venosum more i minutely, we shall find that there is a set of these fleshy co- lumns united with tendinous bands (cordas tendineje) which expand into a membrane that is connected with the orifice. This structure forms a sort of valve; for when the ven- i tricle contracts to push the blood into the pulmonary ar- tery, these cords will be pulled so tight, as to prevent the blood from passing back into the auricle. As this appa- ratus is formed of three distinct sets of columnece carneae and cordce lendinece, it is called the tricuspid valve. We may now lay open the pulmonary artery, and we shall find that there are three distinct valves at its root, which, from their shape, are called semilunar. As these valves