44 will be facilitated if we distend the stomach with air, for then the entry of the oesophagus into the cardiac orifice of the stomach, the great curvature, the lesser curvature, and the attachment of the spleen to the stomach, through the medium of the vasa brevia and membranes, will be easily understood. The dissector will, of course, again examine the several vessels and ducts of the liver and pancreas. The greater part of the stomach is covered by the peri- toneum, which is called its peritoneal coat. By stripping off a portion of this, the muscular coat will be seen, the principal fibres of which may be traced from the oesopha- gus. Before examining the internal coat, the stomach should be separated from the other viscera, by cutting through the duodenum, immediately below the pylorus. It is then to be opened, or inverted. The internal, villous, or mucous coat varies in its ap- pearance in the several parts of the stomach. Near the CBsophagus, it resembles fine cuticle, which, in some cases, may be seen to terminate in a distinct line. In the great curvature, it has more the appearance of a secreting coat; and in some animals, there is a distinctglandular apparatus here. Towards the pylorus, the mucous coat assumes the character of the inner membrane of the intestines. We may now see the impropriety of calling the struc- ture at the pylorus, a valve, for it is distinctly a sphincter muscle, which, according to the ancients, was as a porter, that would not let any indigestible matter pass;—from this idea of its use, they gave it the name of pylorus. The student may form a more correct idea of the struc- ture and functions of the different parts of the stomach, by examining those of certain animals, particularly of the horse, or ass, for the cuticular lining on the upper part; — of other domestic animals, for a glandular appearance near the pylorus;—and of the sheep, or ox, as examples of the complicated structure of the stomach of the rumi- nating animal, which forms a contrast with the stomach of those of the carnivorous kind, as the dog, cat, lion, &c. The stomach of birds is also worthy of examination, as there is not only much difference in its structure from that of an animal of the class of the mammalia, but there is also much variety in the stomachs of the different classes of birds, as of those which live upon grain, and those which are carnivorous. The opening by which the ducts enter into the duode- num, is to be particularly attended to; when the gut is laid open, or inverted, it may be seen; but as the duct opens obliquely into the intestine, we shall be gene-