293 C c 3; is a swelling; of the gland ; for they are sometimes ob- structed by a small calculus. If we could trace the lymphatics which pass from the parts within the mouth, we might be able to detect the source of many of the swellings in the neck, as easily as we do those of a bubo in the groin : in the one case, a sore on the penis is generally the cause of the tumour,— and in the other, an ulcer on the gum, or a spoiled, tooth. We should now examine the natural state of the tonsil.— We shall very often find that its appearance resembles ul- ceration. It is highly important to recollect, that, in con- sequence of a little irritation, such as that produced by taking mercury, the ducts of this salivary gland will have so much resemblance to an ulcerated surface, that they may be mistaken for venereal ulcers. I have known se- veral patients put upon a second, and severer course of mercury, in consequence of the surgeon not having been aware of this fact. As we may sometimes be called upon to scarify the en- larged tonsil, we should recollect that a small artery passes into it: the wounding of this, however, would perhaps do good; but such a case has happened, as the wounding of the internal carotid, in this operation.—The artery will be found very close to the gland. We should now examine the pharynx and larynx. Before making a lateral view of the pharynx, we should^ introduce a probang into the (Esophagus. In doing this,- we shall see how much danger there will be of passing it into the larynx, if, in the introduction of it, we pull out. the tongue. We should now cut through one side of the pharynx.—• An accurate knowledge of the uatural form of the pha- ryux, and of the beginning of lire (Esophagus, is even more important to the surgeon, than a knowledge of the anatomy of the urethra; because, persons of a particular constitution, have very frequently symptoms, which might lead a surgeon to suspect that they arose from stricture in the (Esophagus. If with this suspicion, a surgeon who has not an accurate- knowledge of the structure of the part, introduces a bou- gie, he will probably be led into the idea, that there is stricture, by the very sudden narrowing of the tube oppo*- site to the cricoid cartilage, and particularly if there should be at the same time a spasmodic affection of the- parts, which is very common, in consequence of au at- tempt to pass a bougie. n