163 since I lately, with a view to ascertain the truth of this, examined the body of a man who had died of tetanus. Immediately on the death of the patient, I got the body laid upon the belly, instead of the common position : upon opening the spine, there was no appearance of that loaded state of the vessels on the posterior column, which has been considered as a proof of the previous existence of inflammation of the spinal marrow ; but the anterior por- tion, which, in this case, had been the most depending part while the blood was gravitating, was covered with a con- geries of distended vessels. 1 may here also observe, that if, in opening the spine, we puncture the membranes of the spinal marrow, that part of the nervous pulp will be forced out in the form of a tumour. This will perhaps account for many of the tumours which are discovered on the spiuai marrow. Hut it is not my intention to deny either the occasional inflammation of the spinal marrow, or the existence of tumours in it; for I have several times seen tumours, of firm consistence, in it, and similar to those which are occasionally found in the brain. I have also, in mauy instances, seen the membranes highly inflamed,— and even matter on their surface, which has extended down to the cauda equina. INVESTIGATION OF THE STATE OF THE HEAD IN CASES OF SUDDEN DEATH. When called upon to investigate the state of the head in cases of sudden death, or of death from injury, we must be particularly guarded in giving an opinion ; for it is exceedingly difficult to ascertain, whether many of the appearances are attributable to injury, or to previous dis- ease, or to a change which has taken place after death. Of the difficulty of coming to a decision on this subject, I am the more convinced, Ihe greater number of bodies 1 examine. But as I cannot enter into the question fully, 1 shall only give a few hints; which, however, l hope will induce the student to investigate the subject further. The first thing we should know, is, that there is, very frequently, an appearance of bruises on the scalp; which, however, is only the effect of pressure on a particular part of the head, when the scalp is cedematous and loaded with blood. The question of whether there has been a fracture pre- vious to death, is sometimes more difficult to decide, than a person, who is not accustomed to dissection, could ima-