128 cussed. If he docs this, he will then be able to assign the great improvements that, of late years, have taken place, to their proper source. With the hope, that the student will attend to the patho- logy of aneurism, I shall now confine myself to such points as may be understood by the examination of the parts, in the dead body. The aorta has been tied for an aneurism of the inguinal artery ; but the detail of the operation, and of the cases which were adduced in support of the principle upon which it was done, are sufficient to deter us from ever repeating the experiment. The common iliac has been twice tied ; and though the operations were unsuccessful, still the cir- cumstances, in the one which I witnessed, were so far fa- vourable, that we may expect, in certain cases, to tie this vessel with success: but I shall not give a separate descrip- tion of the manner of dissecting for it, because it may be easily found by making a little variation in the operation for tying the internal iliac. But the most important operation, because it is the more common, is that upon the external iliac. I shall, therefore, particularly describe the manner in which this artery may be most easily found, and safely tied, for an aneurism at the groin. I shall suppose that the dissec- tion is made on the living body ; and, in the description of it, I shall nearly follow that given by Mr. C. Bell, in the Illustrations of the Great Operations of Surgery. “ The object of this operation is, to tie the external iliac artery, so high, that the wound shall not interfere with the tumour of the aneurism, nor open the coagulated blood to the influence of the air, nor excite inflammation in the sac, by its contiguity. The wound must not be a penetrating wound,—that is, there must be no breach of the investing membrane of the abdomen ; or the patient’s danger will be increased a hundred fold. “ Incision. Having ascertained the middle point be- twixt the superior spinous process of the os iiii and the symphisis pubis, you feel there, the pulsation of the artery. Next feel the spermatic cord, and trace it backwards into the abdominal ring; and mark where it disappears. You have now got two points, to direct your incision; make another, by drawing a line from the superior spinous pro- cess of the os ilii to the umbilicus; mark a point upon this line, two fingers’ breadth from the process. Begin the incision opposite the outer margin of the abdominal ring; carry it over the point where you felt the artery beating, in a direction outward and upward, and let it