134 relieved by such purges as will completely empty the colou and rectum. By now making a very little dissection over the outer edge of the psoas muscle, we shall expose the course which the lumbar abscess generally takes; and when we recollect the relations of the fascia iliaca, we shall understand why this abscess seldom or never points at the same part that femoral hernia protrudes. The lumbar abscess appears in the groin, commonly upon the outside of the femoral artery, under the stronger part of the fascia, and near the os ilium. When the tumour forms slowly and regularly, the fascia can be plainly felt; but when it is far advanced, the fascia generally gives way. This abscess, however, does not always point thus regularly, but is sometimes more extensively diffused in the groin,—even surrounding and including the femoral vessels; or it runs so deeply among the muscles, that the lancet or trochar cannot reach it with safety. In the dead body, upon laying open the abscess in the thigh, and freeing it of matter, a new discharge will be seen to come from within the belly. Upon following this sinus, it will be found to run up, behind the psoas muscle, upon the vertebrae of the loins, which are often carious. In some instances, the abscess continues its course by the sacrum and side of the rectum, and points by the side of the anus; and it has even made its way into the thorax.—With this view of the fascia before us, we at once comprehend the importance of making free incisions, when matter is col- lected below it. We may now make the dissection of the deep parts of the thigh. When the fascia is cut through below the groin, we shall see the vessels connected together by a separate fas- cia, which is called the sheath ; the great vein is here on the inside of the artery, but it turns more and more under the artery as it descends to pass through the triceps muscle. The vein is very strong in its coats; and perhaps, in an operation, it might be mistaken for the artery, if the surgeon were to judge by the feeling betwixt his lingers,—which in many cases is a good criterion. The femoral artery, as it descends from the groin, gets betwixt the tendinous insertions of the triceps and the origin of the vastus interims muscles. Betwixt these two muscles, there is such an interlacing of tendinous fila- ments, that they form the bottom of a deep groove, in which the artery runs; and here it is covered by that fascia which has in part been cut, to expose the artery, in performing the operation for aneurism.