297 A set of fibres will now be seen, occupying the space which is above the spine of the scapula,* and which pass under the acromion, to the great tubercle on the head of the humerus: these form the supra spinatus muscle. At the edge of the notch, we may observe the origin of the •mall muscle which passes to the neck, viz. the omo hyoi- deus. We may now turn to the lower surface of the scapula. The loose portion, which will probably appear ragged and slightly putrid, is a part of the serratus major anticus : when this, with the cellular membrane which is below it, is dissected off towards the base of the scapula, the sub- scapui,aris will be exposed. This muscle will be found to occupy all the concave surface of the scapula, and to be inserted into the lesser tubercle of the humerus. We may now pass to the dissection of the muscles which lie on the humerus. The first muscle to be dissected on the fore part, is, the coraco brachialis; the fibres of which, run, in a straight line, from the coracoid process to the inside of the humerus. In exposing the fibres of this muscle, those of the short head of the biceps will also be shown. The belly of the biceps is covered by a thin fascia, which is to be raised, by cutting in the direction of the fibres.—When near the bend of the arm, we must be careful not to cut through the band of fascia which passes ofF from the edge of the biceps; for this is an at- tachment which the muscle has with the fascia that covers those of the fore arm. The insertion of the biceps iuto the tubercle of the radius, cannot be shown until the muscles of the fore arm are dissected ; nor should we, at present, cut the capsular ligament of the shoulder joint, to expose the origin of the long head of the biceps from the glenoid cavity. The brachialis internus may be seen under the bi- ceps. As the fibres of this muscle run nearly parallel to the bone, there can be no difficulty in showing them in their whole extent, from their origin on the humerus to their insertion into the coronoid process of the ulna. The large mass of muscle which is on the back part of the arm, forms the triceps extensor ; it is merely neces- sary to look to the direction of the fibres of the three different heads, to enable us to dissect them down to their union and insertion into the olecranon ; but in dissecting * Perhaps a part of the trapezius may still be attached to the clavicle and spine of the scapula;—this should be removed.