S 3. MANNER OF EXAMINING THE PARTS IN THE THORAX, TO DISCOVER THE SEAT OF DISEASE. The common method of opening the chest, for the pur- pose of examining the state of the viscera, is, to make a longitudinal incision through the integuments,—to dissect them and the muscles towards the sides,—and then to cut through the cartilages of the ribs, and remove the sternum. This method has certainly the advantage of making the view of the parts within, more distinct; but it is very difficult to sew the body up afterwards, so as to prevent it from appearing much disfigured. Unless the patient be supposed to have died of aneurism, or some very particu- lar disease, the following method will be found to allow of sufficient room for examining the lungs and heart; and when the examination is finished, the parts may be put to- gether without the body being at all disfigured. Make an incision from opposite the cricoid cartilage to the umbilicus (if the abdomen is to be examined, the in- cision may be prolonged to the pubes), and saw through the middle of ,the sternum. The portions of the sternum are then to be forcibly separated from each other, and a piece of wood is to be placed between them.—To do this, a considerable force is necessary, for the parts must be pulled asunder until the ribs give way at their angles;—it will be most easily done by two persons taking.hold of the sides of the sternum, and pulling against each other : their hands should be guarded by putting a cloth between them and the cut portion of the sternum. The first part which we should examine, is the pleura. As it is a serous membrane, there will always be a certain quantity of fluid within it;—in the healthy state, there is only as much fluid as will moisten the surface of the mem- brane : but when there has been a general state of weak- ness, the fluid will be thrown out in greater quantity than the absorbents can take up, and then the disease called hy~ drolhorax will be formed. In such a case, we shall occa- sionally find more than three quarts of water within the pleura. When there is anasarca in other parts of the body, a certain quantity of fluid will be found, in the chest.—-It is also a very common appearance in the greater number of those who have suffered from protracted disease of the viscera, or in children who have died in consequence of measles. The cases which have occurred in the cancer Ward of the Middlesex Hospital, Have been sufficiently nu- merous, to prove, that this effusftfn is the most Common