195 S a. called, sinuses of Morgagni } here the coronary arteries will be seen to arise. When the heart of the foetus is examined, we shall-find that it differs very essentially from that of the adult. 11 we lay open the two auricles, we shall see an oval hole (foramen ovale) in the septum, which, in the adult, separates the one auricle from the other. The ventricles are nearly the same as in the adult; but from the pulmo- nary artery, a very large vessel passes directly to the aorta.- Tliis vessel is called ductus arteriosus. In the adult, it is found degenerated into a ligament, which is called the remains of the ductus arteriosus. The minute structure of the walls of the ventricles may be more easily shown, by plunging the heart into boiling water,—for then we may easily strip off the pericardium from the surface, so as to exhibit the different orders of. muscular fibres which compose it. Part of the aorta should be kept for the examination of- the coats of an artery. About an inch of it may be dis- tended with a piece of candle or bougie,—and another por- tion may be laid open: in the distended portion, we irtay show the coats, beginning at-the external,—in the other portion, the internal may be shown first. There are generally only three coats described in an' artery,—but we may enumerate a fourth, by calling the cellular membrane which is between the muscular and internal coat, a distinct one. The three proper coats are,—the first cellular, vascu- lar, or tendinous coat;—the next is the muscular coat ;—and the third, the internal. The outer cellular coat of an artery may be separated into many layers; easily into three layers. These layers are gradually, as they proceed inwards, changed in th£ir nature from that of the general investing cellular mem- brane by which the vessel is connected to the parts with which it is in contact; they are at last incorporated into a more regular coat, whence this has been called the tendinous coal; for it is dense, white, and elastic, and has much more toughness than the inner fcoats,—but while the inner sur- face of this layer, viz. that which is contiguous to the muscular coat, is more accurately defined, its outer surface seeming imperceptibly to degenerate into the nature of cellular substauce,—whence it has been described as a cellular coat; but it has also been called the vascular coat