254 H that it passes forward, without giving off any branches;— hut to be expanded, as the retina, in the interior of the eye.* We should now take hold of the dura mater which lies upon the frontal bone, with the pincers, or strong hook, and pull it off, towards the temporal and sphenoid bones. This requires some force,—hut it must, at the same time, be carefully done, particularly near the edges of the fora- men lacerum, or we shall tear off some of the small nerves which pass into the orbit. Indeed, the third, and the fourth (which lies in the sphenoidal fold) should be partly ex- posed before the dura mater is torn down. When the membrane is torn from the sphenoid and tem- poral bones, the Casserian ganglion of the Vth will be seen,—from which there pass off the three grand divi- kj sions, viz. the ophthalmic, passing through the foramen jj lacerum, into the orbit,—the superior maxillary, B through the foramen rotundum, to the upper part of the ftj face,—and the inferior maxillary, (which is dividedli into the dental and gustatory,) through the foramen ovale. If The first nerves to be followed, are those which passt* through the foramen lacerum into the orbit, viz. the third—pr the fourth,—the first division of the fifth—and the sixth. Before we can trace these nerves, the orbit must be jj opened, by carrying the saw through the orbitary plate,'- in a line drawn from the middle of the foramen opticum, UilJ the inner angle of the superciliary ridge, keeping aboulpj half an inch to the temporal side of the crista galli.t Thetl os malae is then to be cut to the depth of three-quarters oljfl an inch, on a level with the zygomatic process. The saw Ifoj then to be carried through the temporal process of th«H sphenoid bone, and the squamous part of the temporal ^ nearly to a level with the sella turcica. By a smart bloiqll with the mallet, the roof of the orbit will now be s<,|a loosened, that by cutting close upon the bone, it may bi<-ji entirely detached from the soft parts. We shall now have so exposed the orbit, that we raaM make the dissection of the nerves in it. H * Before exposing the course of the nerves which pass throne the several foramina, we should attach coloured threads to theq by which we shall easily find them, during the course of the di section. * * t It is presumed, that the dissection of all the superficial nervai-il has already been made ; and that, therefore, there can be no hesith f tion in cutting through some of the superficial branches of the V* * and of the VII1*1.