250 viscera. If we lift up the liver, we shall sec a set of nerves passing along the hepatic artery, and which form the hepatic plexus. If we dissect in the course of the splenic artery, we shall see the splenic plexus;—and, in the same manner, the renal plexus to the kidney ; and the superior and inferior mesenteric plexuses to the small intestines: and also the spermatic plexus to the testicle, and the hypogastric plexus to the bladder. In dissecting these plexuses, we should put probes under those which have been exposed, that they may not be lost while we are in search of the others. If, after these nerves of the viscera have been shown, the peritoneum be lifted up from the spine, the sympa- thetic will be seen passing from the thorax, along the lumbar vertebrae,* and forming connections with each of the lumbar nerves, by a series of small ganglions: and if we follow it into the pelvis, we shall find that it is con- nected with the nerves which pass to the leg. The sym- pathetic of the two sides will at last be found united on the extremity of the sacrum, forming a small ganglion, which is called the coccygeal ganglion, or ganglion sine pari. This description is very superficial; but I hope it will be sufficient to enable the dissector to make out what is commonly considered the anatomy of these nerves.t But I ft > I i 1 * A small division of the nerve which sometimes comes off from the sympathetic, about opposite to the 11th or 12th rib, and passes to the ganglion, or to the renal plexus, is called the LESSER SPLANCHNIC, or ACCESSORY. t During the inquiries which have, of late years, been carried on in Windmill Street, into the distinctions in the structure and uses of the several nerves, none of the experiments have been repeated which were instituted by several gentlemen, to discover how far the functions of the stomach are influenced by cutting the par vagum. It has not been from indolence, that they have been neglected, but from a conviction, that such experiments could not be attended with any satisfactory results. Perhaps it will be allowed, that the con- victing reports, which have lately been drawn up by the gentlemen who have been engaged in these experiments, warrant the opinion which had been previously formed by Mr. Bell, that the par vagum was a bond of connection between the several organs,—and not a source of nervous energy to the stomach. This opinion was founded on the minute examination of the anatomy of the several nervea, and particu- larly on the fact established by comparative anatomy,—that stomacha I s '