61 very small, and are situated about half an inch anterior to the bulb. On the surface of the urethra, we shall discover many small openings, that are called lacun®; but the principal one, which is called lacuna inagna, is sometimes destroyed in making the section of the urethra,—for it is situated on the upper surface, about an inch from the opening of the glans. The cellular structure of the cavernous body sur- rounded by the ligamentous membranes, and divided into two portions by the septum pectiniforme, will now be understood. No muscular fibres will be seen in the mem- brane of the urethra; but the appearance which has been described as muscular, may be easily understood by pull-, ing the membrane in its length,—for then the inner mem- brane will be thrown into folds, having the appearance o^ fibres. There is, likewise, a set of vessels immediately below the membrane, which, when empty, are very similar in appearance to muscular fibres. 1 have discovered that these vessels form an internal spongy body, whic passes down to the membranous part of the urethra, and forms even a small bulb there. This I have particularly described in. the tenth volume of the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions. Sir Everard Home has lately given an account, in the Transactions of the Royal Society, of certain muscular -fibres, which he thinks he has discovered in the ure- thra, by the aid of a very powerful microscope; but as. ! he has described them as muscles, the tendons of which are of the consistence of mucus, we cannot suppose t that any spasmodic affection of such muscles will account, f for the occasional difficulty of introducing a bougie into, i the urethra. I suspect that Sir Everard has been mis- 1 taken in supposing that there are any muscular fibres in It the urethra, for he does not seem to have been acquainted 'with my discovery, although it was published two years (previous to his paper being read to the Royal Society. 'Since I described the minute structure of the urethra in man, in the horse, and in the bull, I have had an opportu- nity of verifying my opinions, by the dissection of the 'same part, in the elephant and camel. I shall now describe the manner in which the more ad- vanced student should make the dissection of the parts in 'the perineum, so as to enable him to understand their pa- thology, and the operations which it may be necessary to (perform upon them. The arteries of the pelvis are to be injected. The body is to be put into the same position as that for the first dis- G