193 The only other part which we have to observe in the auricle, besides the musculipectinati, which was notseen'in the first general dissection, is the tubercle of Lower. But this is one of those parts, the description of which, has been taken from the heart of the lower animals. It is nothing more than an eminence, which is formed by a por- tion of firm fat, which, in a healthy heart, is situated im- mediately at the angle where the two venae cav® unite, to form the great sinus of the auricle. The right ventricle is now to be opened, by making an incision from the root of the pulmonary artery to the apex of the heart, and parallel with the right branch of : the left coronary artery, but a little to the right of it. By an incision made in this direction, (care being taken to .carry it no deeper than the thin sides of the vdntricle,) none of the column® carneae will be cut; for the ventricle will .be opened exactly to one side of the septum of the ■ heart. The incision may be continued round the base of : the heart, by the root of the pulmonic artery and margin of the right auricle : or, the first incision may be continued r round the point or apex of the heart, so as to lay the veu- : tricle open, as if it were cleft or split from the apex. Of the parts seen upon opening the right ventri- cle.—First, an irregular column of flesh is seen rising from (that part of the ventricle which is laid back, and dividing tinto seven or eight delicate cord® tendine®, which are ex- panded into a broad tendon that forms the anterior divi- sion of the tricuspid valve. From a little mammillary pro- cess of flesh, near the valves of the pulmonic artery, and where the surface of the ventricle is smooth, there is sent i out, in three divisions, a great number of delicate cord® t tendine®, which are also connected with the anterior divi- sion of the valve. The next division of the origins of the ■ *ord® tendine®, is from the septum of the two ventricles ; ;'rom which they arise by separate pillars. And, again, i rora the back part of the ventricle, there is a strong co- lumn, having a double origin from the two opposite sides I>f the ventricle, and to which the great posterior di- i rision of the membranous valve is attached. By the at- tachment of these three divisions to the tendinous circle **hich surrounds the opening between the auricle and veu- ricle, the tricuspid valve is formed. The smoothness of the ventricle towards the opening : rnto tlie pulmonic artery, may be observed. When the > mlmonic artery is slit up, its three semilunar valves will be S