74 to the prostate gland and vesicula; seminales. The compressor, or levator urethroe, according to Mr. Wilson, rises more under the arch of the pubes, and sends its fibres downwards, and under the membranous part of the urethra, so as to encircle it. It is easy to show, that the fibres of the levator urethrae are distinct from those of the levator ani; but their origin is so connected with the ligament of the urethra, that it is very difficult to give the muscle the form depicted by Mr. Wilson, and at the same time to show the ligament of the urethra. Though the attachments of the bladder to the os pubis, are called the tendons of the bladder,—it is not correct to describe them as the origins or insertions of the DETRUSOR URINjE, which is the name given to the muscular coat of the bladder. The arteries which are seen in the perineum, are almost all branches of the PUDIC : the greater number of them have been already mentioned,—but I shall recapitulate them, in the order in which they appear on dissection. The HjEMORRHOIDALES externa are those branches which encircle the anus; the transversalis perinei is the name given to that branch which runs across the pe- rineum ; the SUPERFICIALls PERINEI passes up from the last, along the side of the erector muscle. In the second stage of the dissec- tion, we shall discover the artery of the bulb ; and by feeling close on the bone, we shall find the continued trunk of the pudic, which is here called arteria communis penis : this trunk divides into the arteria profunda propria,—which enters into the ca- vernous body, and into the arteria dorsalis, or superficialis PENIS,—which passes towards the glans. The deeper arteries which are seen in the lateral sec- tion, will be described with those of the pelvis. The veins are here, as in the other parts, named according to the arteries which they accompany. The venous labyrinth formed by those coming from the cavernous body, and the plexus of veins which surround the prostate gland, should be more particularly attended to, than the superficial ones. The nerves which are seen in the first dissection of the pejJneum, are branches of the pudic. The principal branch is found either above or below the transversalis muscle : several smaller twigs are sent to the muscles,—-while the trunk of the nerve passes, along with the pudic artery, into the penis. The parts within the pelvis are supplied with nerves principally from the hypogastric plexus,—which will be described with the nerves of the abdomen.