255 The first nerve which will be seen, is a branch of the ophthalmic division of the Vth. It is the same which, in the dissection of the face, was found coming through the su- perciliary hole, to be distributed on the forehead. A black hair pin should be put under it, to mark its situation. In tracing it, we shall find that it gives off two principal branches,—one to the lachrymal gland, and the other to the nose. This last one, should be marked by a bristle, or pin, as it must afterwards be minutely traced. As the IVth is very small, we should first look for the trochlearis muscle, upon which, it is distributed,—and then we shall see some of its fibres. By tracing them back, we shall discover the trunk of the nerve, which is not larger than a thread; The third will be found at its entry into the orbit, lying very close on the optic nerve. It almost immediately divides into several branches, one of which, in its course towards the obliquus,—and at about three- quarters of au inch from the foramen opticum,—and on the temporal side of the optic nerve, will be found to form a union with the nasal branch of the Vth, (already described,) through the medium of a small ganglion which is called the lenticular. From this ganglion, a'num- ber of small nerves pass into the coats of the eye:—these are called the ciliary nerves. The sixth is the last nerve of the orbit, to be dissected. It enters upon a lower level than any of the others;— as it passes through that spongy structure of the dura ma- ter, which is called the cavernous sinus, there is an intimate connection between it and the sympathetic,—but this union will be more particularly described presently. The trunk of the nerve will be found to be almost entirely dis- tributed upon the rectus externus muscle.* We must now follow the other branches of the V'11 pair. This we shall find to be a most difficult dissection,— and one, in which we are often, after much labour, foiled, by an unlucky blow of the mallet and chisel.+ * In dissecting the nerves of the orbit, we should disturb the natural situation of the parts as little as possible ; and after the dis- section of each twig, we should mark it, by putting a black pin, or bristle, under it. t Mr. Bell has, in bis late lectures on the nervous system, shown, that all the spinal nerves, the suboccipital and the Vth, have several essential circumstances, in common :—that they have, each, two dis- tinct roots,—that they have, each, a ganglion on one of their roots,— that they arc all exquisitely sensible,—that they are all distributed to the muscular frame, for locomotion and action, — that eack Z 2