330 The dissection may now be prosecuted by taking the in- teguments off the inside of the arm. After recognizing the muscles in this more partial view, we should trace the branches of the humeral artery ;—we shall find the radial nerve in company with the main artery; the ulnar nerve accompanied by the profunda inferior ; and the profunda superior, and muscular spiral nerve, passing together be- tween the heads of the triceps. We should now observe the manner in which the hu- meral artery, and radial nerve, and veute comites, are in- volved in a sheath, and bound down by a membrane; and particularly, how they pass under the stronger fascia near the bend of the arm. We may see, that, to cut for the humeral artery, we have only to lay bare the edge of the biceps flexor cubiti, to open the sheath, and avoid the radial nerve ;—that, high in the arm, the nerve is su- perficial to the artery;—that, towards the bend of the arm, it is on the inside of the artery. The FULL ANATOMY OF THE BEND OF THE ARM is Very important. The following are the chief circumstances to be noticed*:— On the fore part of the arm, we should save the super- ficial veins; viz. the cephalic vein, which is coming upon the radial edge; the basilic, on the ulnar edge; the me- dian, in the centre. We should particularly attend to the divisions of the median vein, which are commonly selected for bleeding;—and to the manner in which they are con- nected with the two superficial, or cutaneous nerves. Be- twixt the supinator longus, and the outer edge of the biceps muscle, we shall find the external cutaneous nerve : ■we may trace its branches under the cephalic, and median cephalic veins. The internal cutaneous nerve will he found coming directly down from the inside of the arm, over the fascia: the principal branch goes under the vein; but sometimes a small filament passes over it. We may now lift the fascia covering the humeral artery, and observe how thin, but, at the same time, how strong it is. If, in bleeding in the median basilic, tbe lancet transfixes the vein and the fascia, the artery may be opened. The consequence of such an accident will most probably be, an aneurism,—the operation for which, must be done by ty- ing the artery above and below the puncture. The cases * If a little size injection be thrown into the veins, the dissection will more easily be made.