G4 "while the body is in this position, but we ought to try and introduce a catheter ; for there are certain points of the anatomy that may he more easily demonstrated now, than when the body is laid upon its back. The manner of avoid- ing- the sinus at the bulb, was pointed out in the first dis- section ; but we may still be foiled in the attempt to intro- duce the instrument, even though we attend to the rule of withdrawing it from the sinus, and elevating its point before we push it on. To discover the cause ot our diffi- culty, we should remove all the muscular fibres which surround the bulb, and then we shall see, that the instru- ment may not only have struck against the edge of the triangular ligament, by being elevated too much, but that the urethra becomes very much narrowed at this part, and passes through a circular ligament, which is formed by a fascia that descends from the triangular ligament to the rectum. It will now be evident that there are several causes of difficulty to the introduction of an instrument through this part of the urethra—1st. The natural curve of the canal— 2d. The sinus of the bulb—3d. The edge of the triangular ligament: but the principal difficulty is caused by the circu- lar ligament which surrounds the narrow part of the canal. It requires so much management, and such a knowledge of the structure of this part, to pass an instrument nicely through it, that I can now, with confidence, assert, that nine cases out often of the strictures that are said to exist here, are a consequence of this natural narrowing of the canal having been mistaken for stricture. 1 am now, by experience, so satisfied of this, that when a patient comes to me complaining of stricture only al this part,—if he has been examined by another surgeon, a short lime before, I beg him to let the urethra have some days rest before I sound him ; for this part of the canal is so irritable, that if there has been the slightest injury done to the membrane, there will be a spasmodic affection produced the moment the bougie touches it, so as to lead the patient to believe that the difficulty of introducing the instrument is in con- sequence of a stricture. But there is another source of error here,—for the end of the bougie may be indented by being pressed against the edge of the ligament, so as to give exactly that appearance which has been considered as an unequivocal proof of the existence of stricture. When the body is untied, we should again examine these causes of obstruction. Before making the section of the pelvis, we should ob-