234 the scull-cap, and proceed to the dissection of the brain.* it is presumed, that the student has already a general knowledge of t|ie parts of the brain. On raising the scull-cap, which is to be done in the manner recom- mended for examining the brain, at p. 144, the vessels of the dura mater will be the first that will strike the eye. Those on the part opposite to the frontal hone, may belong to the anterior meningeal, which rises from the ofhihai.- mica ; but this artery is so small, that the large vessel, the aceningea media, which wiII be seen under the parietal bone, generally gives oft' all the branches that are 'seen in the first view. The meningea media may afterwards be traced back to the foramen spinale of the sphenoid bone, through which it comes from the maxillaris interna. Some small twigs from the posterior meningeal may he seen, but these are seldom apparent, until the tentorium is raised. The dura mater may now be cut through, along the line of the longitudinal sinus, and on one side only, at present, so that the falx may be left entire. The dura mater is then to be folded over, towards the temple. The vessels on the surface of the brain will now be seen in great numbers; they arise from several sources, which will be discovered, as the dissection is contiuued, to- wards the base. The first arteries (which have distinct names) that can be seen, will be those of the corpus callosum ;—the artery of each side may be shown, by merely pulling the hemi- sphere separate from the falx. After taking this view, we may cut the dura mater which * I have, in a note at page 226, said, that the dissection of the branches of the internal carotid should be made, before any of the others, in a first dissection; but if the student wishes to make a pre- paration of the arteries of the brain, it will be better to delay the dissection of them until all the others are finished, for then, (the biain being putrid,) the branches of the internal carotid may he exposed by merely washing away the pulpy matter of the brain ;—in thi: instance, the scull should not be opened in the common manner, but a cut should be made through the frontal and parietal bones, in the line of the falx, but a little to one side of it. This incision may ex- tend from above the orbit, to the tubercle of the occipital bone. Ano- ther cut may then be made, above the level of the ear, to meet th two extremities of the first: the intermediate portion of bone is thei to be entirely removed. By this, we shall have an opportunity when the pulpy matter is washed away, of showing the prolongatio: of the dura mater.