257 In its passage across the spheno palatine fissure, it gives off some important twigs :—but before we can show these, we must remove a great deal of the pterygoid muscles.— By then looking close upon the bone, we shall see a con- tused plexus; which, however, will be found to be prin- cipally made by the branches of the internal maxillary ar- tery ; therefore, as many as possible of these vessels, are to be removed: we shall then discover two twigs, passing down to the narrowest part of the fissure, to be united with a small ganglion, which, from the name of the German Professor who first described it, is called the ganglion of Meckel; or, from its situation, the spheno palatine ganglion. When this ganglion is carefully examined, some branches will be seen passing off from it, towards the palate and nose ; and, from its back part, a nerve may—but with some trouble, be seen passing iuto the pterygoid, or Vidian hole of the sphenoid bone. This nerve (the Vidian) passes to unite with branches of the sympathetic, and with the portio dura;* but it cannot be traced, until those of the other division of the Vth are examined. The third division of the Vth is so large, that we shall at once see it, by looking to the foramen ovale. To make it distinct, after it has passed through the hole, it is only necessary to dissect carefully in the remaining part of the pterygoid muscles. The branches which pass to the sup- ply of these muscles, and to the temporal muscles, will then be seen.—It is presumed that the jaw bone has been removed in the first dissection, and that the dental branch is marked by a thread being attached to it.—The only particular branch of this nerve that remains to be shown, is that which passes back from the gustatory, to- wards the glenoid fissure (the corda tympanif). This nerve may, with some care, be traced through a small hole into the cavity of the tympanum; but in breaking up the hone,—which it is necessary to do, to expose its course,— it is generally torn. Its track across the membrane of the tympanum, may be easily shown, by breaking up the cavity, in the manner recommended in the dissection of the ear. The foregoing is but a very slight sketch of the manner of dissecting the branches of the Vth pair ; but I hope the hints will be sufficient to enable au iugenious dissector to follow the branches to their termination. The VII11* pair will be seen passing into the foramen * See what is said on the portio dura, p. 258. t See the note upon the portio dura.