62 section ; but before this is done, the student may try to introduce the catheter into the bladder,—taking care to do it lightly, so that he may not break through any of the natural obstructions to the entry of the instrument. The body being put into the proper position, a single cut is to be made in the line of the Raphe, and the skin only, is to be dissected off' towards each ramus of the pubes and ischi- um, so as to expose the superficial fascia of the perineum, ■which is strongly united by firm cellular membrane to the fascia that covers the gracilis and adductor muscles of the thigh,—more loosely to the parts about the anus, and still less so to the cellular membrane of the scrotum.* The first circumstance that will naturally excite the attention of the surgical student, is, that if matter should form under this fascia, it will with difficulty gain an exit;—but his interest will be increased, when he recollects the quantity of loose cellular membrane which he found among the muscles of the perineum, in his first dissection; for he will see, that if an abscess under this fascia is not freely opened, the matter may work jts way backwards into the cellular membrane, so as to do irreparable mis- chief to the parts within. But the most important view in which this fascia is to be considered, is in the case where, after rupture of the urethra, the urine is effused into the parts of the perineum. As the urine cannot, in such a case, force a passage through the fascia, it will be driven up among the loose cellular membrane of the penis and scrotum: and here it will very quickly produce gan- grene, unless a free incision is made through the fascia. There are very few vessels seen in this stage of the dis- section ; but after part of the fascia is cut through, the arlerips, which are called superiicialis perinei and trans- versalis, will be seen, the first passing up between the ejaculator and the erector,—the other running in the line of the transversalis muscle. Both of these vessels must be cut, in the operation of lithotomy ; but the bleed- ing from these small arteries may be of service after such an operation. The superficial fascia may now be raised, and then the muscles which were described in the first dissection, will be seen. After the muscles and arteries have been dissected, the parts should be studied with reference to the opera- tion of lithotomy. In doing this, it is, above all things, * The observations which were made on fascia: at the groin, are also applicable to Ibis fascia. If the subject be fat, the fascia will .be very indistinct.