239 OF THE VEINS OF THE HEAD. The veins of the face and neck may be seen •without their being injected ; indeed, this should never be done, except when we wish to make a preparation of them. For this purpose, a pipe should be placed in the frontal vein, through which a quantity of warm water should be thrown, so as to clear the superticial veins, of their coagula. To distend the deep veins, a pipe should be put into the longitudinal sinus, directed towards the occiput (a portion of the scull having been previously removed): or they may- be tilled by putting a pipe into each internal jugular vein. The success of the injection will depend very much on the veins being thoroughly cleared of the blood which is coagulated in them. After they are injected, the dissection will be very ea- sily made ; for the veins are so superficial, that, in a thin body, they will be seen under the skin. Tne vein which may be traced from the inner angle of the eye, towards the lowerjaw, is the anterior facial, or the angularis. This vein receives branches from various parts of the face, which are named according to the points from which they come ; as,—vena f rontalis ; vena ophthalmica ; vena dorsalis nasi, superior et inferior; vena a/aris nasi; vence labiates, magnee et minores; vence buccales, &c- At the angle of the jaw, the facial vein will be found to unite with the temporal, or, as it is sometimes called, the pos- terior facial.—By this union, the external jugular is generally formed. The temporal vein is formed by branches which come from the temple (generally four in number); by the veins which accompany the branches of the arteria maxillaris interna; by the transversalis faciei; the posterior auris; and sometimes, by branches from those accompanying the arteria meningea media. The external jugular will be found to be very irre- gular : sometimes it divides into two branches, the one being called the anterior, the other posterior. The ante- rior division generally receives the branches under the chin, and from the tongue, and often joins the great inter- nal jugular vein; while the posterior receives some from the occiput and the back part of the ear, and then passes down to the subclavian,—in its course, receiving veins from the outer part of the neck, and upper part of the shoulder.