14 this membrane from the cord, and push it up, and then let the cord go, there will be a hole, formed in the shape of a ring, but which, on its iliac side only, has a distinct margin, for on its pubic side there is only the cellular membrane surrounding the epigastric artery and ■veins. We may observe also, that the cord at this point has lost its rounded form—that the vessels are not bound together, as they are at the external ring, but that the component parts, separating from each other, give the cord a flat- tened form. Having now made an internal ring, we should attend to the situation of the epigastric artery. It generally arises from the pubic side of the external iliac artery, just before it passes under Poupart’s ligament. It will be found to descend a little, and then to proceed up- wards towards the rectus, passing upon the pubic edge of the spermatic cord, and between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum ; it then enters the substance of the rectus, about midway between the pubes and umbilicus. As this artery is always on the pubic side of the spermatic cord, it follows, that when the inguinal hernia passes along the spermatic passage, (which it does in nine out of ten cases,) the epigastric artery will be on the pubic side of the hernia; but in the direct or ventro iBguinal hernia, the artery will probably be on the iliac side. Let us now trace the course of a common hernia to the scrotum, and show what coverings it may have, and what are the probable causes of stricture. The muscles and the peritoneum may be cut through in the usual way of exposing the viscera, and the flap held out so that the inside of the peritoneum, and the depres- sion which is found at the part where the cord passes into the canal, may be seen. In the greater proportion of cases, it is at this point that hernia takes place. Having laid down the transversalisund internal oblique again in their natural situations, if we push the finger from with- in downwards into the depression of the peritoneum, we shall exhibit in appearance the first stage of the descent of a hernia. The finger is as the sac would be, above the cord, and on the iliac side of Ihe epigastric artery: by pressing forward the finger, and through the peritoneum, it will appear under the margins of tne transversalis and internal oblique ; and if pushed farther, it will pass through the external ring. A hernia lying at this point, would be called inguinal hernia; but if it were to descend a$ far as into the scrotum, it would be called scrotal hernia. This is the common course of an inguinal hernia, but its rela- tion to the cord occasionally varies. When we look to