139 In dissecting these veins, we should pay particular at- tention to their relation to the fasciae,—that we may not be foiled in finding them at once, when we wish to cut them across. We should now consider what will be the best method of dissecting for the anterior and posterior tibia1 arteries, if it should be necessary to tie them. If the anterior tibial is to be tied high in the leg, the incision through the fascia which covers the muscles, must be very free, because the artery lies very deep. By then dissecting between the tibialis anticus and the ex- tensor communis digitorum, the artery will be found lying upon the interosseous ligament, accompanied by the venE comites, and almost covered by the nerve. The artery, about four inches from the ankle, will be found between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus pollicis ; and on the anterior part of the foot, between the extensor com- munis digitorum and the extensor longus pollicis. The posterior tibial may be found about the middle of the leg, by first detaching part of the origin of the soleus from the tibia, and then by freely cutting through the fascia which covers the deep muscles; the artery will then be seen, accompanied by a vein on each side, and with the nerve on its fibular edge. It is an extra- ordinary circumstance, that Mr. Hey, of Leeds, has ad- vised us to cut out a piece of the fibula, in order to get at this artery. 1 have seen a patient, on whose leg my friend, Mr. Smith, of Leeds, tied the artery, with great ease, nearly in the same manner which I have now described.—When there is a deep wound in the sole of the foot, it may be necessary to tie this artery. In such a case, we should dissect for it behind the inner ankle. The artery will be found under the fascia, and in the same relation to the nerve, as it is higher up ; but the quantity of fatty substance which is here, will make it rather difficult to expose the vessel. The fibular artery may be found at two hands’ breadth from the heel, by cutting on the outside of the gastrocne- mius, where it is becoming tendinous. By turning up the edge of the tendon, the flexor pollicis magnus will be ex- posed. If the fascia which covers this muscle be not opened, we may perhaps come upon the posterior tibial; but by opening the fascia, and detaching the fibrous ori- gins of the flexor from the fibula, we shall find the artery