332 prick one of the nerve*;—the consequences of this, are sometimes terrible. We should now pay particular attention to the relative position of the arteries and nerves in the middle of the fore arm; for the arteries are of such a size, that, when wounded, they will in general require to be tied. The radial artery, at about one-third down the arm, may be sought for, by first cutting through the thin fascia. By then raising the edge of the supinator longus, a second fascia will be seen, covering the artery as it passes over the tendon of the pronator teres. The same artery, near the wrist, will be found between the flexor carpi radialis and the supinator longus; it is covered byafascia: a con- siderable branch of the muscular spiral nerve will be seen on its radial side ; and a smaller one, from the external cutaneous, almost immediately over it;—both of these nerves, are superficial to the fascia. The artery will be found on the back of the hand, between the extensor muscles of the thumb,—but here it lies deep: a branch of the muscular spiral nerve crosses it. The ulnar artery, about the middle of the fore arm, will be found between the flexor carpi ulnaris and flexor digito- rum sublimis, but rather under the flexor subliinis.—The ulnar nerve lies on the ulnar side of the artery. In looking for the artery, near the wrist,we should raise the fascia which binds down the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris ; on hold- ing aside the tendon, we shall see another fascia,—and upon cutting through this, we shall find the artery. The nerve is rather more under the tendon, but still very close to the artery. These are very important points to attend to,—for I have seen a great deal of mischief arise in consequence of an attempt to stop the bleeding, of even the superficial™ voice, by compression. Two cases, in which this small artery was wounded, I well remember. A drunken fellow, in fighting, drove his arm through a pane of glass; the su- perficialis volse was cut, and so near to the main trunk, that it was impossible to tie the stump of the artery. The ra- dial was tied; but, in consequence of the many ineffectual attempts, which had been made in chemist's shops, by compression, applications of turpentine, &c. the wound did not heal kindly ; and the man being of a dissolute habit, gradually sunk. About twelve months ago, I was called to the daughter of a respectable tradesman, who, in cutting bread, wounded the superficialis vol®. It would appear, that the artery had bled violently; as she bad been, during