8 which have received such various names, and have required such extraordinary descriptions. They cannot imagine how surgeons can have puzzled themselves, and bewildered their readers, with that which they now think they find perfectly simple. We need not he surprised at this diffi- culty, since the descriptions which are given by some authors are quite at variance with true anatomy ; while those views which are really correct, are given in so com- plicated and obscure a manner, that it is almost impos- sible, even for a man who is conversant with the anatomy of the parts, to follow them. Inthe best authors there are omissions, which have been in a great measure the cause of the student’s difficulty. A principal one is, the forgetting to describe the state of the body from which the views have been drawn. In a thin anasarcous body, all the fascias that have ever been described may be easily shown: the fascia transversalis will be so distinct, that a student, even in his first dissec- tion, can make out the internal ring, according to the description given by Mr. Cooper ; while in a fat subject, this will be a difficult task for even the experienced dis- sector. Unless the student be told how to place the limb, and how to use the knife in the dissection of the parts con- cerned in femoral hernia, it will not be possible for him to show the various crescentic fasci$. The young dissector naturally proceeds with a sharp knife, to clear away the fat, glands, and cellular membrane, while the limb is lying in a straight line; by doing this, he cannot avoid cutting through all the connections of the fascire, so as to destroy all resemblance to those views which have been taken by merely detaching the loose cellular membrane and glands with the handle of the knife, while the legs were forcibly separated from each other. We shall endeavour to sim- plify this piece of anatomy by giving an account of the manner in which the dissection is made in the Dissecting Rooms of Great Windmill Street, and we shall add, in the form of notes, the names which have been given to the several fasciae by the various authors who have written on the subject. It is of considerable importance in this dissection to have a good body. That of a strong muscular man is not so well adapted for the display of the anatomy of the groin, as that of a person who has died of a lingering disease. The body of a male is the best for the dissection of the inguinal canal, and that of a female for the parts connected with femoral hernia. The subject is to be so placed that