65 serve the relation of the bladder to the parietes of the abdomen. If the muscles of the abdomen are still entire, we should distend the bladder, so as to make it project above the pubes, as it does in a case of retention of urine: then, by making an incision, two inches in length, up- wards from the pubes, we shall see the space in which we ought to enter our trochar in puncturing the bladder ;— here also is the place in which the cut is to be made, for extracting a stone by the high operation, if it should be deemed necessary. We may now cut through the muscles of the abdomen, at the umbilicus, and then we shall see that the peritoneum, when the bladder is distended, is re- moved to a considerable distance from the pubes. I have already, in the dissection of the abdomen, described the inflections of the peritoneum; but before removing any part, the hand may be passed down between the bladder and rectum,—and then it may be understood how a hernia may take place there. The peritoneum is then to be stripped from the anterior and upper part of the bladder, on both sides; the vasa deferentia may be cut or left as we choose.— Part of the air and water should Im pressed from the blad- der, and then its anterior ligaments will be observed. The obturator muscles will now be brought into view, covered by a fascia, which may be traced towards the bladder. But this will be more distinctly seen, when we have made the vertical section of the pelvis. In making this section, we should cut through the parts in the perineum, nearly in the same manner as described in the first dissection ; but we must now take care to preserve as many of the arteries as we can, and to make our inci- sions towards the left side, so that we may not endanger any of the ligaments the urethra. The bone is to be sawed through, at a little to the left of the symphysis pubis. The peritoneum is then to be stripped from the left side of the pelvis, so as to completely expose the fas- cia which covers the levator ani, and obturator interims. Alter these muscles and the pyriformis, &c. are cut through, in the manner which is described in the first dis- section, the left leg is to be pulled oft', at the sacro-iliac symphysis. While making this section, we should particularly ob- serve the manner in which the fascia passes from the ob- turator muscle to the neck of the bladder ; for, as it forms a sort of natural division between the external and inter- nal parts of the pelvis, it has been imagined by some, that if it were possible to perform the operation of lithotomy without cutting this fascia, that there would be no dan—