3G from the trunk of the upper mesenteric artery, as it come* out from under the mesocolon. Alter running a little way upon the mesocolon, it divides; and one of the division* going towards the right side, makes a large circle upon the mesocolon, and forms a great inosculation with the right colic artery ; while the other division, going toward* the left side, makes such another sweep, and joins with the left colic, which is a branch from the lower mesenteric artery. These two branches of the median colic artery give off numerous ramifications, which supply a great extent of the middle part of the colon. The inferior mesenteric.—The branches of the in- ferior mesenteric artery are easily found.—The dissection may be made backwards, from the hremorrhoidal artery lying upon the back and upper part of the rectum. Pro- ceeding up along the gut, numerous branches are found distributed to that part of the colon which forms the sig- moid flexure. These are derived from the uppermost branch of the lower mesenteric, and as it supplies the left side of the colon, it is called the colica sinistra; it communicates with the median colic branch of the upper mesenteric artery, and completes a great circle of inoscu- lations, reaching all the length of the intestinal canal.* Of the accompanying veins seen in this view of the intestines.—The branches of the veins run here in company with the arteries, however different they may be in the direction of their trunks. Therefore the names and distribution of the one set of vessels being known, the other must be known also: for all vessels should be named from the parts to which they are distributed, and not from the trunks from which they are sent off; their distribution being constant, their derivation irregular. The veins, as seen in this view of the parts, preserve a uniform course; their varieties consisting only in the di- rection of the trunks in which they are gathered to form the vena ptfrtae. Returning, then, upon the demonstration of the arteries— The hcemorrlioidal vein, rising from the back of the rec- tum, may be easily found; the vena colica sinistra, coming * In the dissection of the lower mesenteric artery, its root is found entangled by the nerves of the lower mesenteric plexu*, which is formed by branches from the sympathetic, and by branchei from the superior mesenteric plexus, and great coeliac plexus. The lower mesenteric plexus, surrounding the trunk of the artery, send* branches out along the mesentery to the left side of the colon, and to the rectum.