204 to be explained to the patient, before we commence any operation on this part. We should now raise the platysma, by cutting it through in the middle, and then dissecting one portion towards the clavicle, and the other to the base of the jaw. We shall now have exposed the sterno cleido mastoideus, and the superficial muscles which are connected with the larynx. There is much to study in this view. The first question that will strike us, is, where ought the operation of la- ryngotomy to be performed ?—The nature of the case will have much influence on our decision : but looking to the parts, as they now appear, we should decidedly fix upon the space between the thyroid and cricoid cartilages, because it is the most superficial, and there are very few vessels upon it;—but we ought to know, that a portion of the thy- roid gland very often crosses this part, to pass up to the os hyoides. If the case be such, that we cannot operate at this point (but luckily, this does not occur once in ten times), then the operation must be performed lower down. This will be very difficult; for we must Hot only go below the thyroid gland, but to a great depth be- tween the muscles, to reach the trachea. However, this is not all the difficulty;—if we put our finger upon our own larynx, and then breathe, as a patient does, who is suffocating, we shall be able to form some idea of the tension of the muscles, of the distended state of the small veins, and of the frequent change in the position, of the larynx.—We must not, at the same time, forget, that the patient must be sitting almost upright. These considerations will give us some notion of the difficulty of performing the operation of tracheotomy. The histories of the operations on the larynx, are most important; because, by them only, can we judge of the difficulties. Some excellent cases and remarks will be found in Mr. Charles Bell’s Surgical Observations, and in the Medico Chirurgical Transactions. There is also a case related by Dr. Johnson in the Medico Chirurgical Journal, which is highly descriptive of what really takes place during the operation of laryngotomy.—This case is also remarkable, as the patient was still, at the end of three years, obliged, and able, to wear a lube in the larynx. If we should be called upon to perform an operation, to relieve a child which has sucked a pebble or pea into the larynx,—the space between the two cartilages will probably be the most proper part in which to open the larynx. I have dissected a child whose death was occasioned by a pebble sticking exactly opposite to this part: — had