41 until it passes through the perforation in the tendon of the diaphragm. We should now turn our attention to the kidneys.— We see one on each side of the spine, and lying on the last ribs, the right being rather lower than the left. In a young body, we see a fatty mass lying on the upper part of the kidney,—this decreases in size in the adult; it is called the renal capsule, or giandula atrabiliaris; besides this, there is generally a quantity of fat surrounding the kidney. From the bosom and lower part of the kiduey, we see the ureter, or duct, passing towards the pelvis; which, with the arteries running from the aorta to the kidneys, may be easily exposed, by merely removing the cellular membrane. The only thing which tends to make the dis- sectiou of the vessels difficult, is the number of nerves which encircle the several branches. We ought not to dissect too closely between the right crus of the diaphragm and the aorta, for here is the thoracic duct, which,with a little care, may be preserved, so thatwe may either inject it, or fill it with air by the blow-pipe; but though a large vessel, it is difficult to find it,on account of its being empty and its coats transparent. It is some- times possible to fill it, by throwing air or mercury into the substance of one of the lymphatic glands which lie by the side of the lumbar vertebra;. The arteries seen when the cellular membrane, &c. is removed, will he—the phrenic arteries, which are some- times branches of the cceiiac ; the trunk of the cceliac'; the superior mesenteric artery ; the capsulares, which some- times come from the emulgeuts; the renal or emulgents; the right spermatic, from the aorta; the left spermatic, often from the left emulgent; and, lastly, the inferior mesen- teric,—all these are seen coming from the forepart of the aorta: but besides these, a regular set of vessels pass into the spaces between the vertebrae;,—these are the lumbar. There are also generally some small irregular branches to the glands, &c. The aorta, passing down towards the pelvis, divides into two great branches— The Common Ii.iacs ; and from these, all the arteries of the pelvis are given, except those to the rectum from the inferior mesenteric, and to the uterus, in the female, from the spermatic. Before examining Ihe arteries farther, we may observe how the vena cava is formed. The veins of the stomach and intestines, the pancreas and the spleen, we have already traced into the vena porta;. We see the great vena cava E 3