279 B a 2 union, and then separate the lower eye-lid from the ball of the eye, by dissecting the conjunctiva from its union to the ball ; — we may then cut oft' this eye-lid. We should separate the upper eye-lid in the same manner; but we must not cut it away, as the levator palpebrie must yet be dissected. It is difficult to dissect all the muscles without cutting part of the frontal and malar bones; but if we are desi- rous of preserving the scull, we must do as well as we can in the narrow space. To make a fine display of the muscles (if the scull has not been opened), we should cut through the ascending orbital process of the os malae, to the depth of an inch, in a line with the floor of the orbit, and then cut the external angular process of the frontal bone, commencing in the superciliary ridge, and carrying the cut down, so as to meet that on the os mal®. If the scull-cap has been removed, the dissection may be made still more easy by cutting away the roof of the orbit; but in doing this, we must not come upon the fo- ramen,—nor nearer to the internal angular process, than the superciliary hole : for if we break up the optic foramen, we shall destroy the origin of the muscles ; and if we cut down the internal angular process, we shall cut through the pully of the trochlearis. The first muscle to be dissected, is the only one which does not arise from the foramen opticum,—the obliquus inferior, or externus. To stretch its fibres, we should pull the ball of the eye towards the temple,—for this muscle arises from the bone, above the inferior orbital foramen, and is inserted into the outer part of the ball of the eye. Before dissecting the muscles which pass from the fora- men opticum to the ball of the eye, we should pull down the remaining part of the upper eye-lid, and dissect the muscle which lies immediately under the roof of the orbit, viz. the eevator palpebral Having dissected this, the eye-lid and muscle should be removed. The whole of the dissection now consists in removing the loose fat which is between the muscles. We shall find the superior oblique, or trochlearis, lying upon the os pla- num : its tendon, after running through a small ligamen- tous and cartilaginous band (which is attached to the lower part of the internal angular process), passes backwards, below the rectus superior, and is inserted into the ball of the eye, about its middle and upper part. There are no particular directions necessary, to enable the. student to dissect the four recti muscles ; for they run