224 TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. this was a case of enteric fever. Astringents were pre- scribed to check the diarrhoea^ and the pyrexia was partly- controlled by antipyrin, quinine and acid having been tried in vain. The violent delirium, which lasted con- tinuously for sixteen days, also abated soon after antipyrin was administered. Even during the delirium localised tenderness could be detected over the right iliac fossa. By the end of the fourth week the patient had so far improved as to be able to play with his toys. A few days later, however, an attack of general peritonitis set in which was marked by the usual symptoms. The urine deposited lithates, but was otherwise normal. The diet at that time was still restricted to fluids. Five days after the onset of the peritonitis, which had meanwhile greatly diminished in severity, pain was felt on deep breath, and on cough at the upper part of the left parasternal region. The pain gradually increased, and on the third day some dulness on percussion at the left base was recognised, together with exaggerated breathing at the seat of pain. The patient rapidly lost ground, and after about eight days from the onset of the chest-trouble he was suffering from severe exhaustion and dyspnoea on the slightest attempt at movement. He lay on his left side breathing rapidly (at about 40 per minute), emaciated, suffused, with parched red tongue, and mouth extensively studded with aphthae. The cough was feeble and hacking, and he had a hectic temperature. The left chest, which I found the previous day to measure one inch more than the right, was absolutely dull from the second rib downwards, the dulness extending to the right for one and a half inches beyond the manubrium sterni. No heart-beat could be detected on the left side, but the cardiac impulse was plainly visible in the right chest, and was felt and heard with greatest intensity at a spot one and a quarter inches to the right of the right nipple in the fifth intercostal space. The left chest was motionless and bulged in its upper part. Loud blowing breathing and coarse rales were audible above the left