424 CHEONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. In my next case^ whicli was almost an exact parallel to the preceding, ending like it fatally, and running its course in five months, there was no tumour. The patient in this case was a gentleman residing at Dorking, under the care o£ Mr. C. W. Chaldicott. His illness began whilst he was staying at the seaside in the winter of 1882, and on February 10th he came under Mr. Chaldicott's care, " with a very severe form of inflamma- tion of the mucous membrane of the mouth.The whole interior of the mouth was intensely^ vividly red, excepting that in a few spots on the arch of the palate, and on the tonsils and pharynx, there were patches of very delicate pellicular whiteness, as if produced by the applica- tion of caustic. He had already been under the care of Mr. Coulson and Dr. Morell Mackenzie, and was taking the iodide of potassium. Mr. Chaldicott gave him a single mercurial pill, and two days later there were all the appearances of profuse ptyalism. Shortly after this a patch of moist papillary growth appeared in the cleft between the scrotum and the left thigh. At this time I first saw the patient, who was now confined to bed with severe inflammation of the whole interior of the mouth, including the tongue and lips. The pharynx was also inflamed, and he had great difiiculty in swallowing. There was a remote and obscure history of syphilis in this case, and at first I thought it best to advise that the iodide of potassium should be freely used. In the course of a week or two, however, I became convinced that there was no reason to suspect that the condition was due to syphilis. A large papillary patch appeared in the opposite groin, and all the toe-nails of the right foot inflamed. A little later all the toe-nails of the left foot passed into a similar con- dition and some of them were exfoliated. Later still small bullae like those of pemphigus appeared on the feet and legs first, but afterwards on the trunk and arms. At this time he was taking fluid food freely, and a considerable quantity of stimulant. He was able to take exercise in his grounds, and on one occasion bore a journey to London