197 RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. he had not passed water for ' an hour or two/ and that he had been drinking up to the moment of wrestling. He also said that during the thirty-six hours between the accident and his admission into the hospital he had 'certainly not passed more than three quarters of a pint of blood and urine together ; ' that he had made several efforts before he voided anything at all; that which first passed being like pure blood, but that which was passed at subsequent attempts became less and less blood- charged, and more and more like natural urine. He began to suffer intense pain in the hypogastrium immediately after his belly had been kneaded, but as the hours wore on the pain, though it never left the lower part of the abdomen, ' got higher and higher up his stomach ;' and he added that he had vomited frequently, bringing up a quantity of greenish fluid, and had also had a good deal of hiccup. " On admission his face looked pale, sunken, and anxious ; his skin was covered with cold perspiration; his abdomen was tympanitic, distended, and extremely tender, the slightest pressure causing him to wince and cry out; the most acute tenderness seemed to be at a small umbilical hernia and just over the symphysis pubis. Nothing abnormal could be felt^er anum. He had micturated voluntarily, but with great pain and difficulty. A No. 7 silver catheter was introduced with ease into the bladder, and between three and four ounces of clear, normal- looking urine were withdrawn. After the urine ceased to flow a very slight pressure made with the finger-tips upon the hypogastric wall caused a spasm, whereby four or five small soft black bodies, the size of melon- seeds, were expelled through the catheter ; these proved to be blood-clots. The point of the catheter was then moved over the inner surface of the contracted bladder in search of a rent in its walls, but no indication of such was detected. The patient was frequently vomiting a bright green, bilious fluid. Pulse 120, soft and compressible, and fairly full. Res- pirations shallow, but of normal frequency. Tongue moist. Ordered hot fomentations to the abdomen ; half a grain of powdered opium in a pill every six hours if awake ; to take no fluid and as little solid food as possible, and to quench his thirst by sucking a small quantity of ice. A gum-elastic catheter, with india-rubber tubing attached, was fixed in the bladder, so that the urine might flow off into a vessel beside the bed. *'June 6.—Vesjpere : Temperature 100°, pulse 108. Patient has ceased vomiting since 6 p.m. Has hiccup badly. Abdomen less tender. Has eaten some bread and butter, and not vomited after it. Took one slice at 3.30 p.m. and another at 11 p.m. " 7th.—Temperature 101*6°, pulse 120. Was sick once in the night, the vomit being bilious. Two pints and a half of clear yellow urine have flowed off through the catheter. Abdomen less tender, but pressure over hypogastric region produced vomiting. Had another pill at 3 a.m.