president's address. 2 Queen's College, Birmingham^ and subsequently id University College^ London. He became a Licentiate of tlie Society of Apothecaries in 1836, and M.D. of St. Andrew's in 1844. In 1857 he became a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England_, and in 1860 a Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh. He appears to have entered upon the active duties of his profession at a very early age, and was equally precocious in his devotion to public matters. He settled in practice in Kidderminster, and there remained in active professional work till his death, which took place on the 19th of Octobei-, 1884, in the seventieth year of his age. From an early period of his connection with the town of Kidderminster, Dr. Roden took an active part in both its municipal and political aifairs. He was a member of its Corporation, and on four occasions was elected Mayor. He was also a Justice of the Peace of the Borough. A few weeks prior to his death he presided at a meet- ing of the medical profession, held at Kidderminster, to consider the cause of the severe epidemic of enteric fever then raging in the town. He was a frequent contributor to the horticultural journals of the day, and was extremely devoted to all that related to horticultural pursuits. Some three or four years prior to his death. Dr. Roden was disabled for some little time by an attack of paralysis.^ From this he so far recovered as to be enabled to resume practice. It was on the 16th October, while making his morning round of visits, that he became conscious of a seizure similar to that from which he had previously suffered. This induced him to return home. He now found himself unable to partake of his mid-day meal; nor was he able to take the medicine he had at once prepared for himself. He spent the afternoon in moving from room to room, and in visiting his much-loved greenhouse and garden, as if taking mentally a final farewell of all his earthly surround- ings. Towards the evening he retired to his bed; but on Letter from Di-. .Jothau).