272 ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. unsuccessful cases collected by Mr. Barwell, gangrene re- sulted, the external iliac was tied and amputation per- formed ; the remaining four cases died from peritonitis and bruising of the abdominal contents. One cannot but agree with the author when he writes,^ Doubtless more (cases) have failed than are made available by publication, but we may conclude with almost complete certainty that all successful instances are known.I am inclined, on the whole, to limit the applicability of proximal pressure to those aneurisms in the abdomen which arise below the aortic bifurcation. It is, however, to be borne in mind that the great majority of abdominal aneurisms arise from the aorta or its branches about the level of the coeliac axis, that is, at a point above which compression of the aorta is impracti- cable. Dr. Sibson's^ experience that 138 out of 177 cases occupy this position remains unchallenged ; thus the principles of treatment of the present case are those of a great preponderance of abdominal aneurisms. What alternatives, then, to the operation performed presented themselves, and with what prospect of success comparable to that obtained by similar treatment by Loreta, of Bologna,^ in his memorable and in many respects similar case ? The records of distal pressure employed in five cases are far from encouraging. Mr. Bryant^s case^ died eleven hours after the second application of the tourniquet from peritonitis and obstruction of the bowel; Mr. Lunn and Dr. Benham^s case^ died eleven days after the operation from gangrene of the intestine and blocking of the superior mesenteric artery, the aneurismal sac being nearly filled with clot; Dr. Markham Skerritt^s^ case died seven weeks after the operation from diffusion of the 1 Loc. cit. 2 ' Medical Anatomy/ p. 57. 3 ' Memoire dell' Academia delle Science dell' Istituto di Bologna,' vol. vi, 1885, p. 215. 4 ' Med.-Chir. Trans./ vol. Iv, p. 225, et seq. ^ Ibid., vol. Ixviii, p. 191, et seq. « ' British Medical Journal,' 1878, vol. i, p. 405.