256 SUPPRESSION OP URINH. now evidently suffering from uraBinia. A vapour bath was ordered, which caused the patient to sweat very profusely ; while this was going on, he became convulsed on the left side. Not more than two ounces of urine had been voided during the past thirty-six hours. The convulsive attacks continuing, and having obtained the consent of the parents, I proceeded to cut down upon the kidney. Chloroform was carefully administered by Dr. Eichards, one of the resident officers; as angesthesia came on the convulsive movements gradually ceased, and the breathing became regular. Mr. Battams, resident medical officer^ assisted me at the operation. An incision three inches long, slightly oblique from above downwards and forwards, was made just below the t¥7elfth rib down to the perirenal fat; this was caught up with two pairs of dissecting forceps and separated sufficiently to admit a finger, with the further aid of which a sufficient area of the kidney, or rather of the peri-nephritic sac, was exposed. A small cannula was introduced and a quantity of the fluid let out. After the tension of the sac had been relieved an opening was made with a scalpel sufficiently large to admit three fingers. Between eighty and ninety ounces of fluid were evacuated; it was of a dark port wine colour with a faint urinous smell; it contained several blood-clots (small) which from their dark colour appeared to be recent. The interior surface of the sac-wall was smooth and velvety, and there existed in different places a few firm adhesions between it and other parts of the cyst cavity. This sac extended far beyond the reach of the finger, down- wards and forwards towards the pelvis, and in front beyond the umbilicus. The exact nature of the sac was not made out at the time ; it appeared to be connected with the external border and adjoining parts of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the kidney. At its attachment to the kidney the sac was small and narrow, but towards its apex it broadened out and was very extensive, not unlike an immense pear. The narrowness of the attached part of the sac, and the strength and thickness of the walls.