EICHTBK^S HEENIA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCELE. 153 hernia the titles Pincement herniaire de Pintestin/^ " Pincement lateral/^ " Hernie partialle.^^ The German writers employ the terms Darmwandbriiche/^ " Lateral- briiche/' Partialbriiche.'^ In English there is need of a more convenient title. The term partial enterocele is not quite clear, and exempts the colon from participa- tion in this variety. The title " small hernia/^ employed by Cooper and others, is not sufficiently expressive, and the title " incomplete hernia/' as used by G-ross and some other surgeons, is confusing, since in connection with in- guinal ruptures it is usually applied to cases where the gut has not left the inguinal canal. I would venture to suggest the title Richter's hernia/' partly because a definitive title is not forthcoming, partly to make still more clear the lines that should separate this hernia from that known as Littre's, and partly because with Richter must rest the main credit of esta- blishing the individuality of this lesion. That the hernias of Littre and of Richter should have been confused with one another can be no matter of wonder. Such confusion is to be especially found in the reports of English surgeons. By some the term Littre's hernia includes only the partial enterocele, by others it embraces both the partial enterocele and the diverticular hernia, while by a third class of writers all expressive titles are avoided. Before describing the clinical aspects of Richter's hernia I might give a brief account of four cases that have been under my care at the London Hospital. Case 1. A woman, Eet. 62, admitted July 24th, 1883. She presented a very small femoral hernia of the right side that had appeared suddenly during exertion three days previously. She was at once seized with abdominal pain, lost her appetite, and became much prostrated. On the second day—but not before—vomiting set in and persisted. On the day of admission the abdomen was a little distended, there was much colicky pain, and frequent vomiting. As the patient would consent to no operation