293 ANEURISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. able. The pulse in the right facial and temporal arteries was also very weak. He was taken home recumbent in an ambulance^ but the journey tried him, and for some days afterwards he felt less well. About ten days before his readmission into the hospital a rapid enlargement of the aneurism began, and with this the pain in the neck and shoulder became so severe that on the February 24th he re-entered, anxious then to submit to any measure that might be proposed. The aneurismal swelling then measured 8 inches across horizontally, 6^ inches in its vertical diameter, and 16^ inches round its base. Its inner border reached 2 inches to the left of the middle line; its lower extended to the level of the second rib ; its outer was one inch distant from the acromio-clavicular joint, and its upper border was in the level of that of the thyroid cartilage. The whole swelling pulsated forcibly, and at its outer part, where the skin seemed very thin, a peculiar wavy motion was dis- cernible. The outer end of the collar-bone, displaced downwards and forwards, could be traced upon the lower and outer part of the aneurism for a distance of about 1^ inches where the continuity of the bone was interrupted; its sternal end could not be made out. The right radial pulse was synchronous with and slightly fuller than the left. At a consultation with Drs. Cayley, Powell, Fowler, and Biss, the proposal to pass wire into the cavity of the aneurism was concurred in. This was carried out the same afternoon; between 10 and 11 yards of pianoforte wire being introduced through a small trocar. At the moment of withdrawing the piercer, blood jetted from the cannula, and subsequently during the passage of the wire it continued to issue freely. This loss seemed to lessen the great tension of the aneurism, and then a small fragment of the collar-bone could be felt and indeed be seen to move up and down under the thin structures forming the anterior wall of the cavity. At the end of