154 RICHTER^S HERNIA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCELE. an ice-bag was applied. On the fifth day of the strangu- lation^ the patient^s symptoms being in no way relieved^ she consented to herniotomy^ which was at once performed. A portion of ileum was held in the femoral ring; the piece so strangulated did not represent more than one third of the circumference of the gut, and projected from the surface of the intestine like a bud. It was gangrenous. Two inches of the bowel were excised, the canal restored by two lines of suture, and the intestine reduced into the abdomen. The patient was much exhausted at the time of the operation, and died two days after its completion. The autopsy showed that the suture line in the gut was well healed, and there was no peritonitis. Throughout the progress of the case there was absolute constipation. The vomiting never became feculent. The specimen is in the museum of the College of Surgeons. Case 2. A woman, ^t. 48, admitted in August, 1884, with a strangulated hernia in the right femoral region. This rupture had existed for twelve years, had been always reducible, and had never been supported by a truss. The symptoms began with abdominal pain, vomiting did not set in until twelve hours had elapsed. The bowels were well open on the first day. Herniotomy was performed upon the third day of the strangulation. A well-marked Richter's hernia of the ileum was discovered. The bowel was not gangrenous, and was reduced in the usual way. The vomiting continued. The bowels were well opened on the fifth day after the operation. The patient died, apparently of a low form of peritonitis, six days after the herniotomy. No autopsy was permitted. In this case constipation was absolute after the first day. The vomit- ing was not urgent and never feculent. Case 3. A man, set. 60, admitted March 13th, 1885, with a strangulated right femoral hernia. The rupture had been noticed for eighteen years, but formed a tumour no larger than the top of an adult's thumb. The patient was very thin. No truss had been worn, and the rupture had never given trouble. Three days before admission—after