ON THE ACTIVE PRINCIPLE OF CASTOR OIL. 109 reddened towards the mucous surface they were reddened towards tlieir subserous aspect. At the end of the small intestine there was usually a dark purple patch, and this often occurred also at the entrance of the bile-duct into the pylorus. The whole of the small intestine was full of a greenish-yellow fluid with greenish flakes floating in it; the mesenteric glands were swollen and dark red. The two thirds of the caecum nearest the small intestine were reddened. All the other organs appeared to be normal with the exception of a few small scattered extravasations in the lung. The effects of the powdered seed deprived of oil, and also of the cake, were the same as those just described; but it was noticed that sometimes subserous extravasations were present upon the peritoneal surface of the intestine and in the mesentery, and these were also seen after the administration of Bubnow^s extract. A quarter of a gramme of this extract injected subcutaneously had a very remarkable action, for the next day the animal would have slight diarrhoea and die on the second day. On post-mortem examination the only differences observed between the effect of the extract when administered sub- cutaneously and by the mouth were that after subcuta- neous administration the purple extravasated patches at the beginning and end of the intestines were absent, while subserous and mesenteric extravasations were invariably present. There was no inflammation at the site of injec- tion. Sometimes the lower part of the large intestine contained stiff gelatinous masses, and the lymphatics of the neck, axilla, &c., were congested. Bubnow^s extract appears from the facts already mentioned to be a substance which is precipitated along with albumen either as a com- pound with it or mechanically by it. I therefore thought that it might be possible to get an active solution from the cake by extracting it with water, and this idea proved to be correct. I bruised the oil cake with about twice its weight of water, pressed out the liquid, and after allowing it to stand for twenty-four hours so as to clear, I filtered