RICHTER^S HEliNlA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCELE. 15l a large number of examples of hernia of the diverticulum, both strangulated and not strangulated^ have been placed on record. The symptoms that arise when the process alone is strangulated, conform very generally to those described by Littre, and also bear resemblance to those that attend strangulation of a partial enterocele. It is to the rupture that contains a MeckeFs process that the term Littre^s hernia should alone be applied. French authors do not employ the name of Littre in an adjectival sense in connection with any kind of rupture, but use the term diverticular hernia (hernie diverticulaire) for this especial variety. German writers strictly limit the title Littre^s hernia—a term very generally adopted— to the rupture that contains a Meckel's diverticulum, employing also as a synonym the expression diverticular hernia (Divertikelbriiche, Darmanhangsbriiche). The history of the partial enterocele is obscure, and that the two varieties of hernia have been confused together, is a matter for no surprise. It is usually said that Fabricius Hildanus^ was the first to recognise a partial enterocele. A reference to the works of this writer does not fully confirm this. In 1598 Hildanus attended a lady of sixty-three, who had a hernia of the groin of seventeen years standing. It became strangulated, and was appa- rently reduced en masse. Gangrene occurred, and an artificial anus followed, which closed spontaneously in two months. Hildanus never saw the bowel, and only hazards a conjecture that it was engaged in the ring without forming a fold or loop. This conjecture would seem to have been founded upon the circumstance that the fgecal fistula healed spontaneously. In 1714 Littre^ published a case of strangulation of a part of the colon, the lumen of the tube being still patent. Le Dran^ in 1731, describes what is apparently a genuine 1 Cent. 1, ' Obs. Cliir.,' 55, 1606. 2 ' Memoires de I'Acad. Royale/ 1714, p. 200. 3 ' Observations de Chirurgie/ T. ii, p. 37, Paris, 1731.