INDURATION IN THE PRIMARY 182 sores. Nor^ again_, is induration always or indeed often present throughout the whole course of a sore ; sometimes it is wanting throughout. So ill-marked is it in many cases as to lose much of its value as a diagnostic sign. Even when present, it does not of itself absolutely distin- guish th© primary character of the sore ; and absent, it does not conclusively prove the absence of the syphilitic poison. The cases are here appended. Table A.—Table of 71 Primary 8ores. 75. Three spots on mucous membrane, slightly raised, looking merely a little paler than the rest of the mucous membrane. 80. Mucous membrane of prepuce and one labium minus thickened and slightly altered in colour. 24. A patch of the mucous membrane in posterior commissure looking reddened; a little raised and thickened. 50. A portion of the mucous membrane on inner surface of labium, thickened but even with general surface; it became hard a week later. 145. In posterior commissure a patch of mucous membrane, looking merely a little swollen, raised, and reddened, soft; followed by inflammatory infiltration in labia; sore took on a pultaceous surface and congested look. 97. A round patch of mucous membrane in posterior commissure, reddened, thickened, with smooth abraded surface. 7. On outside of labium a sore, with smooth, glazed-looking, scarcely secreting surface, a little thickened round its edge; becoming later very large on a wide and thick base. 53. Sore on labium, even with general surface, with almost dry, scarcely secreting surface on a widely thickened base; its sur- face became very large, and its base very thick. 66. Sore on labium, a superficial abrasion on a raised and thickened base. 72. Sore consisted of a superficial abrasion with smooth, red surface, on thickened prepuce; also a small, round abrasion on inside of labium, red, without any elevation or thickening. 108. Sore on labium minus, round, with nearly dry surface on a slightly raised, flattened base; whole labium swollen and infiltrated. 141. Sore on front of labium, circular, slightly raised, with smooth, pinkish, moist surface, partially covered with adherent scab; whole labium infiltrated. 48. Sore deeply seated in hollow between urinary papilla and labium