ON THE ACTIVE PRINCIPLE OP CASTOR OIL. 112 But tliere are certain remarkable differences between castor oil and this active body. The reputation of castor oil as an aperient is a well-justified one^ but that of the seeds is so far questionable that it seems by no means a true aperient, and acts as such only by producing an effect upon the vessels, which in cases of poisoning is not con- fined to those of the intestine. The points of difference are as follows : 1st. It was found by Bubnow that boiling the seeds for a short time was enough to render them inert. This I found to be invariably the case ; even exposure to heat below boiling point, e. g. mere boiling in absolute alcohol (98 per cent.), was enough to destroy the activity. Bat castor oil may be boiled hours, till, indeed, it evidently is decomposing without losing its activity. 2nd. This substance is soluble in water, not in alcohol; but castor oil never yields any precipitate, no matter how much alcohol or ether be added to it. Hence this sub- stance cannot be present in the oil. But what is still more striking is the fact that if a rabbit be poisoned by castor oil in such a dose as to cause death, diarrhoea invariably occurs, but death never occurs before the second day, and the intestine never shows anything beyond a muco-purulent appearance, and not a trace of congestion or inflammation is to be seen anywhere. In other words, the action of the oil seems to consist only in a stimulation of the intestinal secretion, death being due to exhaustion from the great drain. But with the seeds death may occur in about twelve hours, without positive diarrhoea, and the intestine always shows excessive vascular engorgement, even when the dose of the seeds given is so small that the animal does not die. I performed this experiment several times, and always with the same result. Last summer I found thirty grammes of oil sufficient to kill small rabbits in two days; this winter, for large rabbits, sixty grammes were necessary, but the result was the same, and in both cases there was no inflammation. Moreover, it is impossible to get water to take up any