110 ON THE ACTIVE PEINCIPLE OP CASTOE OIL. it. I tlius obtained a clear yellow, transparent, semi- syrupy solution of extreme activity. On adding four times its bulk of alcohol to this, and letting it stand, a precipitate was formed whicli was not increased by the further addition of alcohol. This precipitate when dried proved to be extremely active. I invariably obtained the reaction of a glucoside whenever the substance was active. All attempts to obtain an active principle without albumen failed, and an albuminous body was always present in the solution when it was physiologically active. The same was the case when attempts were made to purify Bubnow's extract. Amongst the means used for this purpose were precipitation with acetate of lead and ammonia, fractional precipitation with alcohol and dialysis. After this active substance had been extracted from the castor-oil seeds the residue was no longer active. This active substance keeps well when dried, but if the first precipitate thrown down by alcohol from the aqueous extract of the seeds be again treated with water, it does not redissolve completely as one would expect, but only partially. The filtrate is exceedingly active and the residue is also active, but its activity appears to depend upon the difficulty of washing out the active principle completely. But if the process of precipitation by alcohol and re-solution be continued we at last get a small quantity of an insoluble residue, which is inactive; a soluble residue, which is also inactive, would be obtained as well. In other words, the mere action of alcohol is sufficient to render the active principle inert. Mere contact with chloroform for a few days has the same effect. Many attempts to obtain the substance pure by the use of various chemical reagents ended in yielding an inert substance. Considering that a glucoside reaction was always present, and that the active substance always became inert under chemical treatment, it is possible that some light may be thrown upon the nature of this active prin- ciple by the following fact. If the slightly acid aqueous solution of castor-oil cake be precipitated by adding