TEEATMENT OP EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. 229 presents an unbroken chain of pathological events. That the bowel was extensively ulcerated may be safely assumed from the severity of the pyrexia, and of the typhoid symptoms. The enteric lesions were probably respon- sible directly for the peritonitis, and indirectly, by way of embolism, for the pulmonary gangrene ; and the latter was followed by suppuration within the pleura. In favour of the view that the gangrene was the outcome of throm- bosis or embolism strong support is derived from the appearances of the specimen expelled from the pleura. Its pulmonary nature is readily identified by the smooth glistening surface covering two of its sides and by the faint pigmentary tracings of the lobules, whilst its shape shows it to belong to the pulmonary fringe. The line of separation is indicated on one of the smooth surfaces by a rim of yellow inspissated pus closely parallel to the ulcerated edge. On one of the two surfaces roughened by ulceration is seen a small cylindrical pit resembling the bed of an absent vessel. This, it is assumed, was the site of the original pulmonary lesion. (Attention may be drawn incidentally to the fact that the specimen was evacuated through an external opening of apparently smaller diameter than would allow of its easy passage.) The shreddy false membranes were yellowish-grey, and consisted of fibrin mixed with pus; only one of the smaller pieces possessed a red tinge such as would identify it with the blood-clot. The presence within the pleura of material such as we have described would in itself lend a feature of gravity to an empyema irrespective of any constitutional exhaustion preceding, as in this case, the chest affection. That in a case thus complicated suppu- ration should have ceased as early as the tenth day, and made place for a serous flow, is a result perhaps not exceptional, but worthy of record. This result is, in our opinion, to be ascribed to the successful evacuation of the cavity within the first week ; and the early expansion of the compressed lung was in great measure due to the care bestowed on the dressings with a