387 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. Up to this point tliere was evidence of some improve- ment, but on December 30th. and two following days she had a sharp attack of diarrhoea, which pulled her down a little. She still, however, showed the possession of more power in the extensors. Her delusions continued. It should have been mentioned before that she had no spinal pain or tenderness, and that she could distinguish heat and cold perfectly over the feet and legs below the knees. There was some power of dorsal flexion of the foot, and a slight amount of glossiness of the skin of the fingers was noted. She has lately (January 7th) become more restless at night, and has been trying to get out of bed. The wasting of muscles, especially those of the legs,is still more marked; the interossei of the hands are much wasted also ; reflexes remain absent ; cutaneous sensibility of feet and legs is perfect, except that she does not feel when a light touch is applied to the outer and upper part of the left ankle. January 11th.—Electrical examination. Right arm.— All the muscles of arm, forearm, and hand react to mode- rate faradism, and the galvanic reactions are quantitatively and qualitatively normal. Right leg.—The muscles act as before to faradism ; their action to galvanism requires a more powerful current than formerly (eight to ten milliam- peres). A.C.O. still equals O.C.C. About this time the patient was got out of bed, and allowed to sit up for an hour in the evenings. It was noted that the feet did not become oedematous when in the dependent position. 18th.—She gets up daily for an hour, and is decidedly stronger. She is unable yet to stand, however : she is clearerin her mind. There is much impairment of cutaneous sensibility over the backs of the hands and over the outer and posterior aspect of the forearms ; the sensation of pain when pricked with a pin is retarded for the most part in hand and arm, where it is not absolutely abolished. As to the legs, the sensation of pain is decidedly retarded, and in the sole of the foot is absent altogether. Reflexes are still absent, and wasting is very marked. She is able