MULTIPLE EMBOLISM OF ARTERIES. 129 from tlie diseased aortic valves, and it is of mucli interest and importance to note accurately tlie changes in the artery where it had lodged : for a microscopical examina- tion shows that it had been the seat of extensive inflam- mation, which had not only resulted in softening of its walls, but, in parts, had almost completely perforated them by a process of ulceration. In consequence of these changes, the artery at the time of death was actually in process of aneurismal dilatation. The occlusion of the left external iliac and common femoral vessels we consider to be of long standing, and for these reasons : that they are extremely small and shrivelled; that their contents are not recent clot but old, adherent, decolourised fibrin with calcareous matter ; and that whilst the patient was under observation the circula- tion in the left lower extremity was generally good and the pulse in the tibials strong. Whether the occlusion of these vessels was due to the lodgment of an embolus in past years it is impossible to say for certain ; nevertheless, considering the condition of the heart, the presence of cal- careous matter in the occluded artery, and the embolism of other vessels, we consider such an explanation to be probably correct. The aneurism on the left external iliac we consider to be of more recent origin than the obliteration of the vessels beyond it, for its sac was thin ; the tissues over it were but little matted or adherent; there was no laminated fibrin in it, and it contained merely soft recent clot. It also may have been caused by the lodgment of an embolus. If so, the latter must have been subsequently disintegrated. The aperture in the right brachial artery appears to have been certainly due to the lodgment of an embolus. It was situated immediately above the bifurcation. The vessel in the rest of its course was perfectly healthy, and even immediately around the aperture there was no dis- ease, whilst in the vessels below, and in the tissue imme- diately around the hole, we found the remains of a cal- careous embolus which could scarcely have come from any VOL. LXX. 9