HEADACHE TO THE EXCRETION OF URIC ACID. 365 over-fatigue appears to precipitate attacks both of gout and megrim^ and there is no doubt that during these large excretions of urea and uric acid^ headache is not far oif ; and if from any cause the uric acid fluctuates considerably in its relation to the urea^ headache will be present during its excess and absent during its diminution (especially the diminution that follows the excess) ^ and the headache will vary in intensity directly with the excess of uric acid over the urea. We must now inquire into the cause or causes which underlie this fluctuation in the excretion of uric acid. The cause, whatever it is, affects the uric acid, and not the urea, which is steadily excreted at about the same rate as if nothing had happened. There is probably no excess in the formation of uric acid, but merely an alteration in the time of its excretion. What cause can we think of that affects the excretion of uric acid and not that of urea ? It can hardly be due to anything wrong with the kidneys, for that would probably affect both urea and uric acid ; besides the cause here is very transient in its effects, and therefore probably not organic. Moreover, we have proof that urates may accumulate while the kidneys are quite normal, for Ebstein^ has called attention to the fact that extensive arthritis uratica may be found in the post-mortem room along with normal kidneys ; and on the whole it appears to me that the best explanation that has yet been given, and the one which appears to best fulfil the above requirements is that of diminished alkalescence of the blood, which is no new- theory, but in one form or another has existed for a long time. Thus Sir W. Roberts mentions it in some previous editions of his work, and in the last edition (the fourth) he says,^ It may be regarded as probable that the defective power of the kidneys to eliminate uric, acid in gout arises from a diminished alkalescence of the blood;'^ and I think also that the researches of Dr. A. Auer- 1 ' Die Natur der Gicht,' p. 18. 2 ' On Urinary and Renal Diseases,' ed. iv, p. 73.