422 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. them the patients have been men, and in most of them men past middle life, living in the country, enjoying', until the beginning of the attack, excellent health, and in positions which enabled them to secure all the comforts of life. Two of them were master tanners, one a clergyman, one a farmer, and one a gentleman of no occupation. All these were country residents, but in some less well-marked cases the patient resided in London. It seems not impro- able that the condition of health which gives rise to this form of stomatitis may be allied to that which originates certain forms of skin disease which are attended with severe constitutional symptoms, and in which occasionally the mouth is affected. Of these pemphigus is the best example, but not the only one. In it, however, I believe that the affection of the skin always precedes the affection of the mouth, whereas in the cases which, with the permis- sion of the Society, I am about to describe, the reverse is the case. I must ask the indulgence of the Society in the some- what difficult task of bringing forward, in some detail, the particulars of a number of different cases which more or less resemble each other. It will be, I am afraid, impossible to avoid being tedious, and at the same time by no means easy so to state the cases as to prevent their being confused with each other. I will begin with a narration in a first group of those which were most severe, and most closely conformed to what may be considered the type of the disease. I will afterwards mention some which were less severe and concerning which there may be some question whether they are exactly of the same nature. It will be a mistake, I am convinced, if we attempt to de- fine the malady very closely, since it would lead to the omission of many collateral facts from which we are quite as likely to derive aid in discovering its true relationships as from the more typical cases. I will describe the cases almost in the order in which they have come under my own observation. The first of them was a patient who was sent to me by