282 SACCULATED AORTIC ANEURISM. thin blood-stained serum through the second puncture was much more profuse. He was troubled with diarrhoea and tenesmus which abated towards evening, and after a bromide and chloral draught he slept well. 15th.—Was quieter this morning ; no pain ; no cough ; pulse of fair force, soft and regular. The serous oozing still very profuse. 17th.—The discharge continued, and was estimated at 3v to 5vj in the day ; it was unchanged in character, being thin, blood stained, and not coagulating spontaneously. The ecchymosis was fading, and there was no redness, tenderness, or other sign of inflammation over the aneurism. There was no change in the heart-sounds, but the pulse was smaller and softer. The bowels had been freely opened with Friedrichshall water. Finding that pressure over the puncture very easily arrested the leakage Mr. Gould applied a pad of boracic lint with four ^' tails of strapping. This was in the afternoon; in the evening the patient became very restless and complained of the pressure of the pad, but he slept after the injection of a quarter of a grain of morphia. Next morning (18th) he was in pain; the pulse was small and feeble. The draining of serum had completely stopped. There was no change in the limits, appearance, or pulsation of the tumour. During the day the pain in the right chest increased, and he complained of a sense of tightness in the axilla. It was found that a general swelling of the subcutaneous tissue over the aneurism had taken place, and extended into the axilla, and upwards to an inch above the clavicle. The skin had a slight purplish tinge, and two bullge filled with dark fluid developed over the aneurism. Next morning (19th) the extremities were cold, the pulse could scarcely be perceived at the wrist, and the patient was evidently moribund. There was very extensive oedema of the subcutaneous tissue of the chest, involving also the shoulder and arm ; the skin over it was mottled in different shades of purple and becoming gangrenous. At 1 p.m.