OVARIOTOMY. 45 own homes, or in nursing homes, recovered, but in this series the mortality is relatively high in the cases operated upon at homes, for reasons which will become apparent when I deal with the details of the fatal cases. There are certain advantages and certain disadvantages in operating in private houses, and these, in a long series of cases, seem nearly to balance the more obvious disadvantages of operating in the hospital. In the whole of my practice the mortality is very nearly the same in private houses, private nursing homes, and hospitals. A glance down the columns headed respectively age and condition of the patient,^' will show that these have little or no influence on the mortality, but I retain them in the tables because of their other very obvious interest. An additional column, which I did not mention when speaking of the alterations, is that which contains the record of the side upon which the tumour grew. When both ovaries were removed the letter L. or R. in brackets denotes the side which appeared to be first diseased. In my previous paper the removal of both ovaries seemed a far more fatal procedure than the removal of one, but here again we see how necessary it is to have large numbers of cases to deal with before attempting to settle questions of this kind, for the mortality in the present cases is nearly equal. The weight of the tumour does not, in the majority of cases, influence the result, but with the very large tumours the mortality is high, chiefly, I believe, because they have been long carried by the patient; and as a consequence important organs, especially the kidneys, have suffered, and are less able to perform their functions after operation. In examining the column which records the highest point of reactionary temperature it must be remembered that in nearly all the cases this is a mere single record, so that, if seen on a chart, it would represent the highest peak of the mountain range, the lines sloping away gra- dually on each side of it; not forming, as in some other diseases, a succession of peaks on succeeding evenings, all