143 THE CURE OF POPLITEAL ANEURISM. But the fact is abundantly shown that obliteration of the artery is by no means necessary to the cure of the aneurism. Here in fifteen cases the aneurism is cured, and yet in all the artery is to a large extent pervious ; in eleven it is pervious throughout. It is clearly enough, as there is ample evidence to prove, that the pressure of the blood stream on the sac be reduced. This^ indeed^ may be said to be the principle of the operation which Hunter performed as distinguished from all previous ones ; that branches may be allowed to intervene between the site of the ligature and the sac, and so blood may still find its way freely though circuitously from above down- ward to the main trunk and thence to the aneurism, and yet nevertheless by thus breaking the force of the main stream a cure will follow. Not invariably, indeed, on this account, for occasionally, as is well known, although the artery as usual becomes obliterated at the seat of ligature, the supply remains too free and the pressure too strong on the aneurismal sac and so it continues to yield. In such instances the ligature of the main trunk does not from various causes—among the chief of which must be the freedom of the collateral current and the character and condition of the aneurism—sufiice to restrain the circulation to a sufficient degree, and these instances throw a strong light on the principle of cure in the treatment by compres- sion above and the frequent failure of this method. The following case is of interest from this point of view^ was tied in August; the man died in January following, and when the limb was injected, the femoral artery, below where the ligature had been applied, was found to have received a part of the injection by communicating vessels. " It is for this reason that the pulsation in some aneurisms where there are free communicating vessels, will remain for a considerable time after the operation. However, in twelve or fourteen months, when the femoral artery has been tied, it becomes obliterated, above the ligature to the arteria pro- funda, and below it, to the origin of the anterior tibial artery ; and sometimes the remnant of the vessel is not only converted into a cord, but is ossified " (* Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,' vol. ii, 1811, p. 253). But this table clearly shows that many years may elapse, 6, 7, 11, 12, and yet the artery may be either in part or throughout pervious.