PKESIDENT^S ADDRESS. 12 When that disease broke out in the West India Islands, he, at great pecuniary sacrifice, at once severed his con- nection with York House, at Battersea, and went out at his own expense. He remained there for many months, during which time he was continuously engaged in attending and prescribing for all who came within his province. Such was his experience, and such the estimate of his services^ that on a second visitation of cholera in the West Indies he was sent out by the Grovernment as Her Majesty's Medical Inspector. Dr. Parkin visited Calcutta after his return from the West Indies, for the special purpose of studying the phe- nomena of cholera, under the different circumstances of soil, climate, and race. From his long observation of this disease under various conditions and in various climates, he became strongly impressed with the conviction that cholera and other epi- demics are in some measure due to those atmospheric con- ditions which attend or follow volcanic disturbances. He was a strong opponent of all measures of quarantine, and although his statements may not be considered sufficient to prove the soundness of his views, still he has brought a large amount of evidence to bear upon this question; and much that is worthy the consideration of all interested in the subject. Dr. Dill attended Dr. Parkin in his last illness at Brighton, and has furnished me with the following notes. He writes : " The intense earnestness of his character and indomitable pursuit after knowledge in the investigation of any subject which laid hold of his mind, was shown by the fact that all his life he laboured under the physical infirmity of spina bifida. My intercourse with him having been always professional, I had little opportunity of knowing his views on subjects generally, but I saw enough of him to reach his mind on the one subject which regulated his daily life : he was a humble and sincere Christian.'' It is interesting to be able to record that one suffering from spina bifida should, notwithstanding the general ten-