316 WRITERS* CRAMP AND IMPAIRED WRITING POWER. group to form the new neuro-muscular group with its three subdivisions. This is a distinct gain as constituting a step towards a pathological as opposed to a symptomatic nomenclature. Impaired writing power or " writers' cramp is but a symptom, and our object must be to refer every case of impaired writing power to its proximate cause. More than a quarter of my total cases of impaired wri- ting power have been due apparently to recognised morbid states of the brain and spinal cord, and it must be borne in mind that the act of writing, an act which requires at once so much delicacy and firmness, would certainly afford evidence of slight changes in tlie nerve-centres, of changes so slight as not to be likely to materially interfere with the performance of coarser and less sustained muscular exercises. Every case of so-called " writers' cramp '' requires a very careful and prolonged examination, for my experience tends to show that hardly any two cases resemble each other in all particulars. By methodical examination we must first exclude all recognised morbid states of the nerve- centres or nerves, joints, ligaments, and muscles. The results of our examination having been to this end negative, we find nothing objectively wrong except altered muscular irritability, nerve-tenderness, or tremor; but it must be observed that I have never failed to find one or more of these conditions present. These conditions must indicate some pathological change, although we may be in great doubt as to the precise nature of this change. In my previous paper I spoke of the condition as chronic fatigue,'' and I see no reason why this name should not be maintained. Dr. Augustus Waller, in his very able investigations into the process of fatigue, reported in the ' British Medical Journal' for July 17th, 1886, states that a fatigued muscle is (a) less excitable, (b) shortens less, and (c) can do less work. In my clinical investigation I have shown that in cases of impaired writing power certain muscles have been