366 THE RELATION OP A CERTAIN FORM OF bacli,^ Ueber die Saiirewirkung der Fleisclinahrurig/' are very much to the point here, as he shows that vegetable and animal feeders differ considerably in their power of pre- serving the alkalinity of their blood against acids formed in their bodies, or introduced from without; and that even where, as in animal feeders and man, this power is greatest, it may be gradually diminished and finally overcome by continued excess of acids. If we may suppose then that the gouty somewhat resemble vegetable feeders, in having less than the normal power of forming ammonia to resist acids, and prevent their taking alkali from the blood, then there will eventually come a time when, on flesh diet and beer, the alkalinity of their blood and tissue fluids will be so far overcome that urates will be far less easily soluble in them than in the normal condition. I think that we have here, in a nutshell, a key to a large part of the pathology of gout, explaining at one glance the great benefit noticed to follow on abstention from meat and beer, and the value of alkalies in treatment. The same connection has been noticed, and the same explanation no doubt applies to the influence of diet and drugs on this form of headache ; and I would specially draw attention here to the action of beer, for the relation between fourpenny ale and gouty deposits is a matter of every-day observation. Now, beer and ale are strongly acid in reaction, and I found in a pint bottle of Ind, Coope's pale ale, estimated by the same method as the acidity of the urine, the equivalent of about 14 gr. of oxalic acid. Dr. Garrod^ says that the average acidity of the day^s urine is equal to about 30 gr. of oxalic acid, so that a pint of this beer represents a very considerable dose of acid, and beer has often appeared to me to pre- cipitate a headache. A pint of fourpenny ale, estimated in tbe same way, yielded the equivalent of 18 gr. oxalic acid, and a pint of stoat 25 gr. ; so that it appears that the cheaper beers are even more strongly acid. Mr. Wynter Blyth. says that the chief acid in beer is acetic. ' ' Virchow's Archiv/ 9S, p. 512. 2 ' Brit. Med. Journ./ i, 1883, p. 705.