17 PKESIDENT^S ADDRESS. ■member of the Surgical Staff. He was born in 1837; the youngest son of Mr. Nicholas Mason, of Wood Street, Cheapside. His early education was commenced at the Islington Preparatory School, at the time when Dr. Jackson, the late Bishop of London was head-master there. Subse- quently he became a student at King's College Medical School and Hospital. In the wards of the latter he appears to have worked, and to have discharged the duties of dresser, with such interest and zeal, as to secure the notice of those under whom he acted. He also carried off the prize in Surgery of his year. Sir William Fergusson early learnt to appreciate his excellent qualities, and constantly called on him for assist- ance at operations in private and for other professional pur- poses. To the day of Sir William's death, Francis Mason was his intimate and trusted friend. Mr. Mason became a member of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1858. He officiated, as House Surgeon, at King's College Hospital in the years 1859-60. He became a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons by examination in 1862. His first public appointment was that of Surgeon to the St. Pancras and Northern Dispensary. He was then appointed Assistant Surgeon to King's College Hospital. But as promotion here appeared remote and uncertain, he took advantage of an opening in the Surgical Staff of West- minster Hospital, and passed over to it as Surgeon. He was also appointed Lecturer on Anatomy at the Medical School. In 1871, when the new buildings of St. Thomas's Hos- pital were ready for the reception of patients, the Governing Body decided to reorganise and increase the Medical and Surgical Staff. It deservedly fell to the lot of Francis Mason to be selected as one of the Assistant Surgeons, whereupon he resigned the Westminster Hospital. He was also appointed one of the Lecturers on Anatomy. He succeeded Mr. Simon as Surgeon in 1876.^ Mr. Mason delivered the oration at the Medical Society 1 ' Laucet,' June 12th, 1886. VOL. LXX. 2