president's address. 3 the arrival of his son soon after, he was unable to converse with him. Shortly afterwards he became insensible, and so continued till early the following* day, when he died. Throughout his active life he appeared to find sufficient relaxation in change of occupation ; he was satisfied to vary his medical and public duties by indulgence in the pleasures of horticulture. His habits of scientific experiment and observation enabled him to make many suggestions of improvement in this, his favourite pursuit. Mr. John Ware died at Clifton, on the 27th of February, 1885, in the ninetieth year of his age. He was born in London on the 15th of June, 1795. His father, Mr. James Ware, of Lawrence Lane, in the City, was a well-known oculist of his day, and a Fellow of the Royal Society. He was the founder of the School for the Indigent Blind. He was also one of the founders of the Society for the Relief of Widows and Orphans of Medical Men; and founder, by donation, in 1788, of the Fund, the interest of which is paid to the Directors for attendance at the meetings of the Society. He left £200 to the Society, of which he was President from the year 1809 to his death in 1815. After a short University career at Cambridge, Mr. John Ware commenced his medical education at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, where he was a pupil of Mr. John Abernethy. He became a Member of the RoyaljCollege of Surgeons in 1817, and subsequently commenced to practise in New Bridge Street, in partnership with his brother, Mr. Martin Ware. He there devoted himself very successfully to ophthalmic practice. His professional career was, however, cut short by failing health, and in 1829 he was compelled to relinquish practice. He left London for Clifton, near Bristol, and there he resided till his death. During his long residence at Clifton, Mr. Ware never actively resumed the practice of his profession. He chiefly devoted himself to works of philanthropy. He was ever interested in all that related to medical science, and to the last continued his membership of the different Medical Societies to which he had subscribed in earlier life.