CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 435 end in death by exliaustion. In lichen planus, as I have shown some years ago (and as was, indeed, first noticed by Dr. Sparks), there is an eruption on the tongue and in the cheeks. The precise form of the skin eruption does not seem to be of much consequence, for whatever it is, if it become very extensive, the patient^s strength may fail and death may result. It is a very remarkable fact that these diseases, like the one which I have been describing, almost always begin in those who up to the time of the attack have enjoyed excellent health. The failure of strength always appears to be due to the exten- sion of the local disease. The feature in which my cases differ from those to which I have just referred is in that the mouth inflamed before the skin was affected, and suffered throughout with preponderating severity. The disease of the skin was, as I remarked in the beginning of my paper, very different in the several cases. In one it appeared to be a direct extension from the lips to the skin of the chin, which became greatly thickened and covered with papillary outgrowths. In others it was bullous like pemphigus. In several, papillary outgrowths at the flexures occurred in great abundance, whilst in two a few eczematous patches on the hands and abdomen constituted all the skin affection that ever showed itself. In all the severe cases the nails inflamed. It is impossible not to be struck with the apparently specific efficacy of opium, and the uselessness of other drugs. I think it may be fairly asserted that in all the cases in which opium was given early enough it cured the patient, and it not only removed the local symptoms but restored perfect health. In the first case it was not given at all, in the second only a week or two before death, and in Mr. Macnamara^s patient the state was so far advanced that recovery was almost hopeless. I do not doubt that this observation of the usefulness of opium may with advantage be extended to many chronic maladies affecting the skin in elderly persons. I will ask permission to cite by way of illustration a