118 MULTIPLE EMBOLISM OF AETERIES. gical casualty department of St. Bartholomew's Hospital and was immediately admitted. On inquiry into her history, she stated that she has had a winter cough for several years, and has lately suffered from shortness of breath on the slightest exertion. There is no history of syphilis, rheumatism, or chorea. Her family history is good. She is poorly nourished, has a troublesome cough, and expectorates some viscid frothy mucus. The cardiac area is increased, and there is a double aortic murmur, with a doubtful presystolic murmur at the apex. Resonance over the lungs is good, but there is much rhonchus and sibilus everywhere. Abdomen natural. Situated imme- diately above the bend of the right elbow is a swelling of the size of a Tangerine orange. The skin over it is rather oedematous and discoloured as if from bruising. The superficial veins are slightly fuller than natural. The swelling is tender to the touch, easily compressible, so that it can be much reduced in size by steady pressure. If after this partial emptying of the tumour pressure be made upon the brachial artery above, it remains collapsed, but fills up quickly again when the pressure is released. It pulsates synchronously with the heart, and the pulsa- tion is distensile in all directions. A distinct thrill can be felt and a loud bruit heard over the swelling. Passing over the aneurism for nearly two thirds of its length can be felt the pulsation of a large vessel, which is deemed to be the brachial artery. This gradually lessens and becomes lost towards the distal end of the aneurism. The pulse at the right wrist can scarcely be recognised. No venous distension or oedema below the swelling. The circumference of the arm over the broadest part of the aneurism is nine and a half inches. The finger-ends of both hands are remarkably clubbed. In the right popliteal space there is a swelling of the size of a large orange, presenting the same characters as the one in the arm. It is most prominent on the outer side of the ham and behind the head of the fibula. It