16 PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. extremely gratified at this evidence of a just appreciation of his services. But " man walketh in a vain shadow." The offer came too late. Before his name could be pub- lished in the Gazette, or he could appear before his Royal Mistress, to receive from Her Majesty the Badge of Honour, his body was carried to its last resting place. He died on the 1st of June. On the 2nd of June there appeared in the ^ Court Circular,' by command of the Queen, the following kindly allusion to his death and to his long services to Her Majesty :—The Queen has received this morning, with great regret, the news of the death of Mr. White Cooper, who attended Her Majesty for upwards of thirty years as oculist, and for whom Her Majesty had a sincere regard." Nor did Her Majesty intimate her regard and esteem for White Cooper in words only. While he was confined to his bed at his country residence, Her Majesty, on her return from Balmoral to Windsor in the autumn of 1885, drove to his house, sat by his bedside for some time_, and evinced great feeling and interest in his illness and recovery. The world is familiar with Her Majesty's generous sympathy and kindness to those who have met with affliction or are in sorrow; but it is almost exceptional to have to record the visit of a Queen to the sick chamber of one of her trusted medical attendants, a visit intended to cheer the suffering invalid and to brighten his spirits in his convalescence. Such sympathy, like the quality of mercy, " is twice blessed, it blesseth him that gives and him that takes," and it did for White Cooper, to use his own words, " more good in recovery than any other thing." White Cooper married, in 1845, the eldest daughter of Mr. Samuel Poyser, of Derby, who survives him. He was connected by marriage with the families of the first Sir Benjamin Brodie and the late Sir George Staunton. Mr. Francis Mason was well known to a large number of the Fellows of this Society, and was most esteemed where most intimately known. He was, at the time of his death, one of the surgeons of St. Thomas's Hospital, and a most active and industrious