ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 269 tion in calibre of that vessel for a distance of two inches, best seen at the level of the renal arteries, where the bulging forwards of the posterior wall was very notable. The section described divided the aneurism into two unequal parts, the left being the greater; both parts were filled with clot of which more than one third, lining the interior of the sac throughout the section, was considered to be of ante-mortem formation (see Woodcut, p. 275). It may probably be fairly assumed that in the part on the left side of the section the proportion of ante-mortem clot was even greater. In order, however, not to destroy the specimen the clot was not removed in searching for the wire ; but its presence was easily detected by the introduction of two steel needles connected with the poles of a galvanic battery —of which only two cells were in action—and with a very delicate galvanometer which at once indicated when a complete circuit was established by contact with the wire, by a marked deflection of the needle. The wire had obviously fallen from its point of introduction and lay embedded in tbe middle of the left portion of the aneurism at a distance of about an inch, from the centre of the section described. It was, unfortunately, impossible by this method to verify the amount of wire introduced. Remarks.—I have been emboldened to bring tbis case before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society by the fact that many of the most important contributions to our knowledge of the treatment of abnominal aneurism are contained in the Transactions of the Society, and because I am convinced that the Fellows whose criticisms will, I trust, follow will discuss the principles of the treatment adopted in a philosophical spirit rather than decry the operation on the mere ground of its want of success in the present instance. From a medical point of view the case presented no features of novelty and but few of special interest, the confirmation post mortem of almost all the surmises of the physician only demonstrating the facility of diagnosis of certain conditions by physical examination. The presence