94 ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OP THE FAUCES. summer for wliooping-cougli. He had not had any other ailment. Three weeks later^ on March 8th^ we learnt that he had been complaining of sore-throat and difficulty in swallow- ing for one week, and the soft palate and uvula were found to present numerous minute yellowish superficial points ; the tonsils were not visible ; the glands in his neck were certainly smaller than when first seen. The mother further told us that since the birth of this child she had had one other but that it died shortly after birth. The child^s father was said to be healthy, but there was a history of phthisis in his family, and one of his brothers, who was considered consumptive, had died at the age of twenty-eight with some throat affection, loss of voice having been a prominent symptom, and it was owing to this fact that on this occasion the mother asked us whether her child^s throat was " consumptive.^^ Next week the child was too ill to be brought, so we saw him at his parents^ home ; he was restless and feverish at night, was taking his food badly, and rapidly losing flesh. The soft palate and uvula presented the same yellowish speckled appearance that they had on the pre- vious occasion except that this was now much more marked; the specks were each about the size of a pin's head and in places were so numerous as almost to be con- fluent, the intervening mucous membrane being' pale. There was much tenacious secretion about the fauces ; the glands in his neck had still further decreased in size. Abundant sharp rales could be heard all over the chest, but owing to his feeble state no thorough examination could be made. Beyond rapid emaciation and steadily increasing debility there was nothing in the after-progress of the case calling for comment, and he died a fortnight after the throat affection was first recognised and three weeks after the first complaint of sore-throat. The night before his death he was delirious. The body was examined nine hours after death.