400 MULTIPLE GANGRENE OF THE SKIN resembled a vaccine vesicle. Immediately below tbe ribs, was a flat pustule a quarter of an inch across^ with a narrow red areola. On the abdomen only three or four lesions were present above the umbilicus^, but there were a large number scattered below it, most of them scabbed, and some with pustular margins, but the scabs were simply dried secretion. There were also a few pustules from a pin's head to a hemp-seed in size, some flat, some convex, and on the right flank was an excavated ulcer three quarters of an inch across. On the anterior surface of the thighs were a few small lesions on the upper part, but on the left near the knee were two sharp-cut ulcers half an inch across and a quarter of an inch deep in the centre. On the right thigh, rather higher up, was a somewhat larger and deeper ulcer and a smaller one near it. On the outer side of the thighs the ulcers were very deep and numerous, thickly aggregated in the upper two thirds, and varying from an eighth to three quarters of an inch in diameter. They were less numerous on the left than on the right side ; the left leg below the knee was free, but the right, had two on the front of the knee and about half a dozen lower down. On the back were a few comparatively superficial and small lesions at the neck, and over the scapulae, and three or four in other parts scattered irregu- larly. There were two large deep ulcers on the loins, but the greater number were on the buttocks and upper two thirds of the thighs, especially the right. On the buttocks they were so thickly placed that they coalesced in one place on the left buttock into an ulcer an inch and a half long, and half an inch wide, the edges were sharply cut, sinuous and undermined, and the base deep and irregular. These ulcers, having been kept moist with the napkin, were not covered with scabs, but none of these were granula- ting, and there were more on the left than the right buttock, but the deepest were on the right side. The anus and its immediate neighbourhood were quite free. With the exception of two ulcers just below the left calf, the back