CHEONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 433 hands and feet especially, thougli it was not confined to them. I do not think that we need fear to recognise an essential similarity between this and the other cases which I have narrated, and it may perhaps help us to a right conclusion as to their nature. It is, possibly, a modi- fied form of lichen planus. In that disease, as I have already shown, an eruption appears on the tongue and on the cheeks. The difference is here that these patches ulcerate and are attended by general stomatitis ; both are curable by arsenic, if curable at all, with, however, the reservation that the arsenic may cure the skin disease and not cure the mouth. This drug has, I think, but little influence on the mouth, and when pemphigus causes bullas in the mouth it usually fails to do good. If we accept the suggestion of alliance with lichen planus then, inasmuch as the latter is after all only a variety of psoriasis, we succeed in placing them all together as modifica- tions of one and the same diathesis. A very interesting example of the disease was brought to me by Dr. Whistler. Its subject was a gentleman, aged about forty-six, and the attack of inflammation of the mouth for which I saw him was the third from which he had suffered, but it was the first in which any eruption had appeared on the skin. His first attack began in May, 1880, and lasted till August. On this occasion after having resisted many remedies his mouth finally got well very quickly when he went to the seaside. Another attack occurred in November, 1885, and again the cure was effected by a visit to the sea in December. In neither of these attacks was his skin in any way affected, and during the intervals his mouth got perfectly well. The one for which I saw him had begun about two weeks before Dr. Whistler brought him to me. There was a distant and doubtful history of syphilis, but he was married and had a healthy family, and nothing had occurred of recent years to indicate that any taint per- sisted. His mouth was exceedingly sore and the condi- tions at first sight certainly suggested specific disease. VOL. LXX. 28