ANEURISM OF THE ABLOMINAL AORTA. 264 case and it was decided to adopt this treatment. The patient^ after due explanation^ gave Ms consent. On October 5tli tlie pulsation liad extended in an up- ward direction almost as higli as tlie xiphoid cartilage^ and laterally, two inches to the right of the middle line ; a loud, musical, diastolic bruit was superadded to the systolic over the point of maximum intensity of the pulsation, and there was a trace of albumen in the urine. The pain in the back was daily becoming more and more excruciating, necessitating the employment of morphia injections every two or three hours day and night, and the patient's strength was obviously diminishing. As it was considered that there was evidence of rapid increase of the aneurism —now absolutely precluding the applicability of proximal compression—and imminent risk of its rupture, recourse was had to the procedure about to be described. Operation.—The patient having been fed for two days exclusively by the rectum, and the bowels having been cleared out with a dose of castor-oil, an incision was made on Friday, October 8th, at 9.30 a.m., by Mr. Morris from the xiphoid cartilage to the umbilicus along the middle line. The abdomen having been opened, the surface of the aneurism was first exposed by teasing an opening in the great omentum between the transverse colon and the stomach. This was found not to give sufiicient room for manipulation, and some difficulty was experienced in keep- ing back the viscera—considerably distended by flatus— with flat sponges and the fingers of an assistant, to suffi- ciently expose the sac for the introduction of the cannula. The sac was therefore sought, and easily exposed, above the upper edge of the stomach, and by dragging that viscus downwards and the left lobe of the liver and edge of the thorax upwards an ample view of the sac was acquired and maintained. The trocar and cannula were introduced and the cannula held between the forefinger and thumb of the left hand in such a direction as to pay in the wire downwards and to the left, i.e. in the course of the blood current. A sharp spurt of blood followed the