IN INFANTS AND ITS CAUSES. 419 healed rapidly. Botli children were healthy and well nourished. It will occur to everyone that the first four of this set of cases are referable to noma_, especially as two of them came on after measles^ but granting that this is so it will be noticed that they all began as vesicles or pustules, and from that went on to ulceration and sloughing. So far they therefore corroborate my statement that vesicular erup- tions, other than those of varicella and vaccinia, may be the starting-point of gangrenous ulcers. In a case of Dr. Barlow^s which he was kind enough to show me recently, besides the deep punched-out ulcers of the vulva and groin, there were some scabbed spots like dried-up pustules sparsely scattered about the trunk and limbs, and although no history of varicella could be obtained Mr. Hutchinson considered that varicella was at the bottom of it. Even if that were so in Dr. Barlow^s case (which I do not believe) it certainly was not in all of mine. On the other hand, there was a strong suspicion of tuber- culosis in three of the cases. There are other analogies with cancrum oris, moreover, which may start from quite a superficial ulcerative stomatitis, and this, too, is more fre- quent in girls than boys, and rarely begins after the sixth year. ^' Broncho-pneumonia is very common, and pyaBmic abscesses have been found in the lungs (Eustace Smith), and the pneumonia preceded or followed the gangrene. Meigs and Pepper and others have drawn attention to the predisposing influences to it of the tubercular diathesis, while Barthez and Billiet describe it as beginning with ulceration, aphthae, orphlyctenae of the mucous membrane and only rarely with oedema. I do not of course ignore the fact that vesicles or bullae are often the first sign of a gangrenous inflammation, but these are of different characters, and I am equally convinced that even when arising from otherwise harmless causes they may be the starting-point of gangrene in tubercular or otherwise predisposed subjects.