174 INDURATION IN THE PEIMARY nection with the sore. In depth and thickness the indu- ration also varies greatly^ in some cases forming a tumour- like mass^ as in cases already cited^ in others forming a thin superiBcial layer^ which has been likened by writers to parchment or even paper_, only to be recognised by pinching edgewise between the finger and thumb. In- deed, it may be said that induration shades off in some cases to the vanishing point. If an attempt be made at comparison between the degree of development of the primary lesion in connection with the amount of its induration and size on the one hand, and the severity of the fully developed disease on the other, it is found that there is apparently no depen- dence of the latter upon the former; slightly marked sores and those of large size being followed respectively by both severe and mild cases of general syphilis. It is stated on the authority of Bassereau that when the primary lesion shows a tendency towards destructive changes the general disease will be severe. Another point refers to the particular form of the induration, as to whether the typical Hunterian chancre_, characterised by its cartilage-like density and its clearly-defined and ring-like outline, is met with in women. It seems evident that in them it is at least very uncommon. Fournier mentions this fact, and it is well sustained by an exami- nation of the cases in the table, and by the general impression which one gets from an acquaintance with the characters of their primary sores. As before stated, a very large proportion, perhaps half, have not the thicken- ing strictly confined to the base of the sore. The impression is also given that the induration in women is very seldom abruptly bounded off from the surrounding tissues, indeed it is often evidently a pro- gressive infiltration; neither does the hardness ever exceed that given by a firm fibrous tumour in the most developed cases, firm, resistant, and resilient. Very far from anything like this, with their slight or moderately developed induration, are the majority of the sores ; the