richter's hernia or partial enterocele. 157 In eacli instance the gland would appear to have been solitary, and of recent appearance. It is well known that certain lymphatic vessels having left the femoral glands make their way through the crural canal to reach the intra-abdominal glands. If a hernia accu- rately engages the femoral ring it is conceivable that these efferent vessels would be compressed. Such impedi- ment in the lymph circulation may affect the more super- ficial glands; they may be engorged with lymph and become enlarged either on that account alone or by reason of some adenitis induced by the lymph stasis. The presence of a solitary enlarged gland immediately in front of the crural canal may at least excite suspicion that the lymph-vessels in that canal are exposed to compression. The segment of bowel engaged is nearly always the ileum, and especially the lower portion of it. In only three cases is the jejunum said to have been involved, and in only one case the colon. A part of the circumference of the bowel only is strangulated. In the case of femoral hernia the constricting agent would appear to be the crural ring, and in the case of inguinal ruptures, most usually the neck of the sac. The amount of bowel that is strangled varies. In some cases as much as four fifths is involved, in others three fourths, two thirds, or one half. Probably in the majority of cases less than one half of the circumference of the tube is held. In many instances the portion strangulated represented only one sixth. Gross states that he has seen several such cases. The strangulated portion is invariably of circular outline, and forms a prominent projection from the surface of the unimplicated bowel. The little projection, which tends to become slightly pedunculated, may be no larger than the tip of the little finger, or may reach the size of a pea-nut without its shell,^^ or attain the dimensions of a cherry. Excellent drawings of the condition are given by Gross^ and Dent.^ 1 ' System of Surgery/ 1872, vol ii, p. 613. 2 * Tyans. Clinical Society/ vol. xv, 1882, p. 16.