EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION. 88 its position. I then tried traction with ovum forceps, but with no greater success. Some haemorrhage, but not much, occurred during the operation; but the patient^s pulse beginning to flag, it was decided to defer further attempts at extraction, and after irrigation of the cervix and vagina with warm antiseptic solution she was removed to bed. In the evening symptoms of collapse set in, and she died in the course of the following day. Auto^osy twenty-four hours after death. Body some- what emaciated. Some old adhesions in the right pleura. Heart and pericardium normal. The peritoneal cavity contained some dark brown material looking like intestinal contents but having no distinctly f^cal odour. The intes- tines were matted together by fairly firm but not fibrous adhesions, and there were also several patches of recent inflammatory lymph both visceral and parietal. The peri- toneum was much discoloured. The great omentum and the intestines were adherent to the brim of the pelvis. On lifting up this adherent mass the partially disintegrated remains of a foetus were seen lying transversely in the posterior half of the pelvis, the parts surrounding it being of a dark slate colour, and almost sloughy in appearance. In the pouch with the foetus were several grape stones. The foetus itself was more or less decomposed. Its relation to the uterus was not at first clear, but on removing the pelvic contents and carefully examining them, it was found that almost the whole of the posterior wall of the uterus had sloughed away, from close to the inner os below to within half an inch of the fundus above. The left Fal- lopian tube and ovary were fairly healthy. The right tube and ovary could not be traced. No trace of placenta was found. The small intestine was ulcerated in several places, and two perforations were found in it leading into the cyst-like pouch in which the foetus was contained. Remarhs.—My impression of this case at the first was, as I have indicated at the beginning of the history just given, that it was connected with some error of gestation, and neither malignant on the one hand nor simply inflammatory