WRITERS^ CRAMP AND IMPAIRED WRITING PgWER. H2l leiierness without altered muscular irritability (18 cases). i;rve- teerness Hfiediau I: Blliedian Biiiedian ! Ftiedian f iiedian V(i tender ^|nerve- tnks of artn Ilnediati Inedian B hedian, R usculo- piral Joth jdians Tiedian Itiedian I' Joint troul)le. R. slioulder Trophic change. Writing Writing Drink edentary occupation No marked difference of electric irritability. To wear capsicum plaster over tender nerves. To take arsenic. Was practising shorthand wlien difficulty commenced. The liand gets "cramped." Tlie nerve is exquisitely tender. Ordered blister to median. Dyspeptic. Liable to attacks of " dumb hysteria." Father suffers from writing trouble. A sister liable to attacks of hemiplegia, whicli last 4 or 5 days. No objective change anywhere. Says she writes with difficulty, but writing is good. Has suffered from " nervous exiiauslion." Has had rheumatism. Some very doubtful tenderness of right median nerve. Some dys))epsia. Blister to tender nerve. Massage. Iron and quinine. Recovery complete. Has a sister who suffers in the same way. Works hard suit ? in society." Ordered blister, warm douche, &c. Re- Drinks too much. A brother died of general paralysis. Optic discs normal. Recovered completely after giving up alcohol and taking a holiday. Uric acid in urine. Liver enlarged. Recovery complete after a course of saline purgatives and a holiday. Leucorrboea, constipation, dyspepsia, tender nerve-trunks. Goutv? Blisters ordered for The hands get " cramped " after writing a few words. Very thin; liable to spasmodic asthma. Spots of eczema about body. Tongue clean. Urine normal. Family history negative. Military secretary. Capsicum plaster worn over tender nerve com- pletely cured him. Foul tongue. Rheumatic. Shoulder-joint creaks. Completely cured by saline purgatives. No objective symptoms. Has been writing a book. Completely cured by massage. scular irritability without nerve-tenderness (21 cases) S'one None None R. phalan- geal of thumb R. carpus R, shoulder Lifting A family tendency to "rheumatic fever." heavy | weight and worry Sudden onset with swelling of thumb and creaking of the joint. The phalangeal joint of thumb forms a re-entrant angle when writing and rolls towards index finger. Veins of both arms are big, but no evidence of pressure In mediastinum or elsewhere. Sudden onset. There is a nodular swelling just above the wrist-joint. Patient states that " ten years ago a bone used to come out in the situation of the present swelling." Has worn a strap round the wrist ever since. A strong muscular man. General health perfect. To have hand and arm shampooed, Writing painful. Dyspeptic. Always better in cold crisp weather than in warm damp weather. Much improved by wearing a capsicum plaster over shoulder, massage, arseniate of iron and a dinner pill,