190 INDURATION IN THE PRIMARY have now healed over, no induration at all in them; no enlarged inguinal glands. During the past week there have been aching pains about hips. 14th.—The right labium minus, on which the sores were situated, has now become thickened and swollen. 17th.—There are enlarged and indurated glands in right groin. Labium minus still thickened. A syphilitic macular exanthem has appeared on limbs. July 1st.—The thickening has disappeared from labium. September 15th.—Left recovered. Within the next three months fresh exanthem appeared, and mucous patches on the folds of buttocks. During the next four years she was admitted many times, always or nearly always with recurrence of syphilitic symptoms. The primary sore appeared in this case after she had been in hospital and removed from source of infection twenty-six days, which time the incubation period must have exceeded. There was no induration in the sores, nor in the inguinal glands, until seven days after the former had healed over, when thickening appeared at their site, and three days later the glands were found affected, at which time also the early exanthem appeared. The case continued to show repeated outbreaks of syphilitic signs during a long subsequent period. In this case the antecedents were not known. The incubation stage was typical. The appearances of the sores were characteristic with the exception of the absence of induration. The case is peculiar in the fact of induration appearing where the sores were situated seven days after they had healed. The inguinal glands, which maintained their freedom till induration had appeared, shortly after became typically affected. The development of the constitutional symptoms with pains in the limbs, and the appearance of a syphilitic macular exanthem, was typical. The further course of the disease observed for four years was also regular. Case 49.—A. 0—, set. 19. Fourth admission. Under previous observation in hospital during the under-mentioned periods :—1st admission, December 24th, 1879, to January 8th, 1880; 2nd admission, March 10th, 1880, to March 18th, 1880; 3rd admission, April 21st, 1880, to April 27th. All these admissions were for slight gonorrhoea only; there were no other signs of disease, local or general. June 14th, 1880 (fourth admission).—Gonorrhoeal discharge with redness of internal parts. No other signs at all of disease except a distinct gland in each groin. July 22nd.—There are two patches of the skin of the folds of nates, one on each side, looking as if superficially excoriated, of rather large size. 27th.—The patches, which were excoriated, have now dry surfaces, look red, but are neither raised nor thickened. August 9th.—For some days past she has complained of scalp pains. She has now some brownish, slightly-raised spots of syphilitic eruption generally scattered about the body.