PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. 23 Dr. Moxon was not only a writer and thinker, and a man of action in Lis profession, but occasionally lie contributed to the non-professional literature of the day. He was a devoted and loving husband, a kind and affec- tionate father, and a true friend. Generous, warm-hearted, and benevolent, he was ever ready to lend a helping hand to those in distress. Many a poor student has been assisted through his difficulties and many an orphan has been tempo- rarily supported by his open purse. The amount he gave away in private charity would be scarcely credited. Sensi- tive and tender-hearted he was deeply affected by the signs of pain, and he rebelled against anything akin to oppres- sion.^ Mr. George Busk died at his house in Harley Street on the 10th of August, 1886, after a long and painful illness. He was born in 1807 at St. Petersburgh. At an early age he gave promise of those tastes and of that aptitude for research which, developing with his years, gained for him the high position which he was destined to hold among the scientific workers of his time. He was a student at St. Thomas's Hospital, but attended the practice of St. Bartholomew's Hospital for one year from October, 1828. After being admitted a Member of the College Mr. Busk was appointed in 1832 Assistant Surgeon to the Seamen's Hospital Ship at Greenwich, when the " Grampus" was used for this purpose. Subsequently the '^Dreadnought" was given over by the Government for the accommodation of a larger number of patients, and Mr. Busk became in time Surgeon to that floating hospital. Mr. Busk held the appointment to the Hospital Ship for about twenty-five years; and it was this twenty-five years of hospital work which may be said to have embraced the strictly professional period of his life. In 1855 he resigned his appointment to the " Dreadnought," and at the same time came the determination to withdraw from the practice of his profession. He settled in London, but while refusing » ' Lancet/ August 7th, 1886.