399 IN INFANTS AND ITS CAUSES. were fhen many small ulcers on the buttock and lower part of the abdomen, two on the forearm, one about one third of an inch in diameter in front of the thigh (the first to be formed), and two above the knee on the left side. The child was taken into the hospital on July 24th : she was fairly well nourished but had a good deal of bron- chitis, nearly all over her chest. Distribution.—The lichen papules on the upper part of the body had not entirely gone. There was nothing on the front of the scalp, but on the left side, on a level with the ear, were some small superficial excoriations covered with crusts, and a few also on the right side. There was also an irregular group of ulcers, from one eighth to three quarters of an inch in diameter, scattered irregularly over the back of the head in the left mastoid region and imme- diate neighbourhood, and a few also on the occipital region. On the right side of the face were about half a dozen superficial ulcers about one eighth of an inch across. On the right arm were six or eight crusted excoriations, scattered irregularly over both surfaces. All but two were quite superficial sores ; of these, one was a pustule one sixteenth of an inch across, with red areola, and the other a lesion with a dark central crust one eighth of an inch across, slightly depressed below the surface, also with a red areola. On the left arm were two deep ulcers, two thirds of an inch in diameter, on the flexor aspect, and two about a quarter of an inch in diameter. On the wrist there were two smaller ones, one on the upper arm, three on the outer surface, and two superficial on the elbow tip ; the arms were free. There were a few superficial sores on the chest and on the right clavicle, and on the lower ribs on the left side, was an irregular group of five, not very deep, and from an eighth to a quarter of an inch in diameter. All these were covered with a reddish-brown scab, sunk below the surface^ and one of them had a pustular margin and