RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. 203 open along the anterior aspect, and the rectum with the surrounding structures. The urethra and prostate were of normal size, and free from disease ; the bladder also was of normal size, and with the exception of the con- dition herein described, quite healthy. The peritoneum covering the back and fundus of the bladder, and that lining the pelvis, was considerably thickened, apparently the result of old inflammation. The bladder wall, for a wide area around the seat of injury, was also thickened from a similar cause. The peritoneum was coated with a layer of quite recently formed lymph, and an opening into the bladder was visible at the base of a band of adhesion between the bladder and rectum. About an inch below the fundus of the bladder, and on its posterior aspect, slightly to the right of the mesial line, there was, as seen from within the viscus, a rounded opening of a quarter of an inch diameter. This opening led to a funnel-shaped recess, which was bounded at its wider or vesical end by the thickened and plicated vesical walls, and tapered off within a hollow cord-like adhesion into a mere blind sinus just large enough to admit a probe_, which could be passed to within one eighth of an inch of its posterior extremity. This tubular band of adhesion was one and a quarter inches in length, and extended between the bladder and the front wall of the rectum. It was in a part of its length divided into two unequal strands, which were united at their extremities, like some of the musculi pectinati of the ventricles of the heart. The wall of this funnel-shaped recess, beyond the level of the outer surface of the bladder, was membranous, not being thicker than a sheet of stout note paper. This adhesion had been partially torn through at its vesical attachments during life, thus permitting a free escape of urine into the peritoneal cavity. The lining of this recess was smooth, and in direct con- tinuity with the mucous coat of the bladder, and was marked by finely injected parallel vessels extending its whole length.