299 ANEURISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. ness of the opening of communication between the sac and the large blood-channel on which it is seated. I am not aware that these matters can be ascertained even approxi- mately by any diagnostic signs yet known. There must always, then, in every case be an inherent chance of embolism which the surgeon cannot control, but his share of the risk can be diminished by the employ- ment of a material which he can ensure will remain in the neighbourhood of his puncture, not stray indeter- minately and possibly pass into the blood-channel. On this account, and also because its thorough asepticity can be more certainly ensured, I prefer to employ spirally coiled hard iron wire, which again coils up over the cavity on escaping from the tube. Horsehair, fishing-gut, and catgut cannot be depended on to do this; they are more difficult to manipulate, and from the character of their surface they are more likely to carry infective matters. In neither of the two cases reported by Dr. Cayley and myself, in which I have used such wire, have embolism or septic infection or endarteritis occurred. This number of instances is, of course, much too small for a basis from which to generalise, but it encourages the hope that these disasters will not often occur. As regards the method of procedure the patient was anaesthetized, less because it was apprehended that the operation would be very painful, than because it ensured his thorough quietude and freedom from nervous agitation v/ith accompanying vascular ex- citement. A suiall exploring trocar was used. Its cannula proved a trifle too wide. The calibre should be such as will just allow the easy passage of the wire. If the latter fits the tube too loosely there may occur inconvenient leakage; if too tightly there is risk of the wire being jammed, an accident which may immediately be followed by the wire kinking in front of the cannula. I have found it easy to pass the wire through the tube by seizing it with two pairs of dissecting forceps each used alternately, hand over hand.''^ For ensuring its asepticity the wire, as was done for the first case reported, was boiled in a