238 OBSTEUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. ered, and from tliat time until June, 1884, he enjoyed very good liealtL. interrupted only by occasional attacks o£ colic, thought by him to be intestinal, and passed over as matters of small consequence. The first of these occurred about 1881; it only lasted for two hours and was relieved by the administration of chloroform. A second, a year later, lasted four hours and yielded to the hypodermic injection of morphia. They both, consisted of severe abdominal pain, not localized, and accompanied by much, sweating, and on the second occasion by vomiting, but there was nothing in either to suggest the ureter as the seat of the disorder, nor in the appearance of the urine to prompt the patient to examine it. At times, after this second attack, he experienced sharp shooting pains in the right testicle, which he thoughtlessly attributed to a large left- sided varicocele from which he suffered^ but otherwise he considered himself quite well. The illness for which he asked my advice began there- fore without any other warning recognised as such on June 4th, 1884, with increased frequency in micturition and a pain in the region of the bladder if he attempted to retain his water. Before this time, and indeed afterwards, he was in the habit of emptying his bladder at rather remarkably long intervals. The trouble in passing water lasted for a week, when on June lltb there was a good deal of blood in the urine, and under the microscope oxalate of lime and per- haps some uric acid crystals were discovered ; but next day the urine was normal in the morning though blood again appeared in tbe evening. On the following day, June 13th, abdominal pain like that from which he had suffered in the two previously described attacks, came on and was accom- panied by sickness ; it was so severe that he kept his bed on this and the two following days, but on the morn- ing of the 16th it had disappeared and he was getting about again. In the evening of this day, however, it returned with, great severity, ^' doubling him up,"*^ and becoming localized in the region of the right kidney. His temperature was now 102^ F.