162 richtek's heenia or partial enterocelb. death on the sixth day. In the remaining cases it appeared late. Meteorism and distension of the abdomen are very rarely met with. In those cases in which the bowels were freely opened this symptom was entirely absent. In other instances it was influenced by the same conditions that influence tympanitic distension in the simple forms of stran- gulated hernia. The tumour in these cases being very small is diflB.cult to examine^ but when large enough for its physical conditions to be made out it presents no other than the features of an ordinary strangulated rupture. In some cases a truss was worn^ in others not. In some, the rupture was reducible in others irreducible. One striking feature in Richter^s hernia is the great difficulty experienced in effecting reduction by taxis. This end was only accomplished in two cases. In each instance the hernia was femoral, and death rapidly followed from acute peritonitis. In the majority of the recorded examples taxis had been tried. In four cases there had been re- duction en masse. Of these three were femoral and one inguinal. Another striking point in this variety of rupture is the frequency with which the gut becomes gangrenous. This may be explained by the fact that the constricting force comes direct upon the gut. The mesentery that may afford some protection is not involved. In many instances also the hernia escapes notice. Gangrene is met with in over 50 per cent, of all cases, and occurs more frequently in connection with femoral than with inguinal ruptures. It has been found as early as the third day of strangula- tion. On the other hand, in cases where strangulation symptoms have persisted for seven, eight, and even nine days the gut has been found still viable. Both these extremes are afforded by femoral hernise. The average duration of strangulation before death or relief by operation is in femoral hernia five and a half days, in inguinal seven days, and in ventral four days.