EARLY DISSEMINATED MYELITIS. 79 His pupils were equals of medium size^ and they reacted somewhat sluggishly to light. There was no ocular or facial paralysis. His tongue, which was dry, brown, and fissured, was protruded in a straight line. The grasp of the hands was distinctly weak, but equal on the two sides. The patient declared he was unable to move his legs. The right leg was semiflexed by Mr. Arkle, the house physician, without giving rise to any pain, rigidity, or spasm, and was found in exactly the same position some hours subsequently. The patient felt and localised a pinch on the two legs. The plantar-reflex was absent, and no knee-jerk could be obtained. There was no ankle clonus. There was still retention of urine. The urine was withdrawn by catheter and contained a very faint trace of albumen. On examination of the chest, the systolic murmur before noted was found still present, and it could be traced into the axilla. There was some deficient resonance at the left base, and weak breathing. In the afternoon I found the con- dition as Mr. Arkle had noted it. Taking the above sig'ns in conjunction with the entire absence of head retraction, of rigidity of back muscles, and of anything like spasm of limbs, the diagnosis appeared to me against menin- gitis, and in favour of acute myelitis, with its focus in the anterior grey cornua. I was the more inclined to this view because, although I had never before seen a similar case in the acute stage of one of the exanthemata, some examples of infantile paralysis had come under my observation, in which the history of onset pointed to their being sequels of measles or typhoid, and I thought that this might be the early stage of such a condition. Taking that view I did not at this visit regard the pro- gnosis as necessarily grave, so far as life was concerned, but I hoped the general symptoms had arrived at their climax, and looked forward to the subsequent localization of the paralysis in some group of muscles. There appeared no