297 ANECTRISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. minate. The third part of the subclavian artery ran in a channel on the upper posterior wall of the sac ; it was small and flattened from before backwards^ but like the carotid contained no clot. The sac above approached the skin so nearly that the intervening matted tissues could only with great difficulty be recognised. The scalenus anticus was reduced to an attenuated fibrous cord^ which blended with the sac wall^ three inches external to the orifice of the innominate, and immediately beneath it the subclavian opened into the sac. The thyroid axis was represented by a minute branch filled with firm clot; its transverse cer- vical and suprascapular branches could not be found. The vertebral, internal mammary, and superior intercostal were each filled with firm clot. The right innominate vein was plugged immediately distal to the point of entry of the inferior thyroid branch, and the clot extended up into the internal jugular. The subclavian vein, filled with firm grey coagulum, passed directly into the wall of the sac, and could not be isolated from it. The recurrent laryngeal nerve sprang from the posterior surface of the wall of the sac ; it was much flattened ; the main trunk of the vagus in a similar way passed down and became lost in the upper and inner part of the sac. The left common carotid and subclavian were pervious and of normal size ; the thoracic portion of each w^as displaced to the left. The left inno- minate vein was slightly narrowed from pressure. The belly of the right sterno-mastoid, where it crossed the sac, was inseparably blended with it ; at its attachment to the manubrium the tendon had been quite hollowed out, and its anterior fibres formed the boundary wall of the sac at this point. The only visceral changes found were signs of subacute inflammation of the brachial tubes and inci- pient fatty infiltration of the liver. By wish of the friends the head was not examined.'^ The post-mortem examination disclosed what had been previously quite unsuspected—that the aneurism arose from the first part of the subclavian and not from the innominate artery and aorta. It showed that the wire