MULTIPLE GANGRENE OP THE SKIN 406 and three miscarriages, but not consecutive ; the eldest, a boy, set. 17, liad had some cervical abscesses, but tbe others were bealthy. The child before the patient, died when twenty months old, and had similar lesions on the skin for four months before death ; it had improved under my colleague Mr. Barker^s treatment, although it subse- quently died of bronchitis. The spots first came on the right leg, and then spread upwards. The following notes were taken on March 17th :—The patient was fairly nourished, but suffered from enlarged cervical glands. She was vaccinated when six months old, and the eighth or ninth day afterwards, small red pimples came out over the whole body, which " felt like a nutmeg-grater,^' but this did not last longer than a month. A fortnight before she came to the hospital a few spots came on the right leg, preceded by fretfulness, then others came in a correspond- ing position on the left leg, fresh ones continued to come out, extending from below upwards to the buttocks, and then over the body, ulcerating soon after their formation. When first seen the bulk of the eruption was papular, while pustules existed round the hair-follicles of the legs. There was an eczematous patch about an inch in diameter on the head ; there had been some eczema behind the ears, and otorrhoea. The distribution of the lesions was as follows :—There were the remains of a good many on the scalp^ but they had not been of a severe kind, and they were dry and nearly well when the child was seen ; there were about a couple of dozen on the back of the forearms, and a few on the front, and on the upper arm, but the palms and soles were free. The upper two thirds of the trunk were almost free, but there was some desquamation on the lower third. They were comparatively numerous, increasing in number and size from above downwards, being pretty freely distri- buted over the buttocks and thighs, and densely crowded from below the knees to the feet, the lesions as a whole being roughly symmetrical. The course of the eruption is as follows:—It begins as slightly red, pin's-head sized, flattish