INTUSSUSCEPTION OF THE 338 close to the growth, and the section was carried at this spot above the first row. After this section had been completed, and the mass of the intussusceptum removed as a continuous ring, only one small vessel bled. This was tied with silk. The whole cut surface was then dried, and the bowel was returned, a pad of iodoform wool being placed over the rectum. The mass removed consisted of the growth and about two thirds of an inch of healthy bowel above it. The peritoneal covering was quite healthy, and the growth well limited by the operation. The lobules of the neoplasm presented all the appearances of an adenoid tumour on the surface. There was not, to the naked eye, any infiltration of the wall of the bowel underneath. Each lobule was more or less pedunculated, and on microscopic section showed a fibrous centre with strands radiating in all directions, forming fine papillae about half an inch long. Each of the latter was formed of delicate connec- tive tissue covered with columnar epithelial cells. In the central pedicle normal tubular glands were seen cut at different angles to their axes. At the base of the growth there was a suspicious irregularity in the arrangement of the cells, islands of which were seen separated from one another by strands of connective tissue of varying thickness; but whether the neoplasm was actually malignant or only adenomatous it is difficult to say from microscopic exami- nation. There was considerable shock after operation, but this soon yielded to the usual remedies, but no brandy was given. The patient was sick soon after her return to bed, and during the night, but not subsequently. The next morning (10th) the pulse was good, 116, temp. 100.° There was no distension of the abdomen, and only a feeling of being somewhat " bruised in the left iliac region. She was put on spoon diet with ice to suck. Flatus was passed in the evening. 11th.—Patient better, no abdominal tenderness or any kind of pain. Takes beef-tea. The pad of wool over the