PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. 14 with a small ophthalmic institution, which he and some few friends established in Charlotte Street, Portland Place. Mr. White Cooper came of an old Wiltshire family. His grandfather held the Kectory of Hambledon in Surrey, and was also Yicar of Yetminster. The eldest son of the Eector was the father of White Cooper, and being a man of independent means had no occasion to follow a profession. Mr. White Cooper came to London about the year 1834 to study medicine. He entered at St. Batholomew's Hos- pital, and at the same time became a house pupil of the late Mr. Stanley. While a pupil he gave much attention to comparative anatomy, a subject on which. Richard Owen then lectured at St. Bartholomew's. It was in consequence of Wliite Cooper's love for com- parative anatomy that an intimacy was established between bim and Richard Owen, which lasted through life. In a letter received from the latter, be says, "My scientific relations with my dear and deeply regretted friend were as follows. In a course of lectures on comparative anatomy at Bartholomew's Hospital, Cooper, then a student, gained my prize for his diligent attendance, and the fulness and accuracy of his notes. These after revision I consented to his publishing, and they appeared in successive ^ numbers,' making an octavo volume on the Anatomy and Physiology of the Invertebrate Animals, published in 1843. Mr. Cooper accompanied me to the ' meeting of the German Association of Science,' under the Presidency of Professor Oken, at Freiburg. On the journey there and back, we visited the notable museums of natural history and anatomy in both Cermany and Holland ; and he added much to my profiting thereby, by taking notes of every object, or series, that seemed worthy of attention. These notes have done good service in subsequent editions (1853 and 1855) of my ^ Anatomy of Invertebrates,' and in my ^ Anatomy of Vertebrates.' Having secured the membership of the College of Sur- geons in 1838, White Cooper visited Madeira before settling 1 Letter from Sir Ricliard Owen.