250 OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. cannot be anything serious tlie matter witli him. He is calm and free from distress, with an unclouded intellect, and with natural pulse, respiration, and temperature. He may be able to take food fairly well, the tongue being clean, and there being neither nausea nor vomiting. The muscular strength, however, may be observed to fail, and there is often marked sleeplessness at night. There is no desire to micturate, and sometimes no urine at all is voided. Generally, however, at very irregular intervals, the bladder discharges a few ounces, or even a pint or more of urine. This is always pale and watery, and of very low specific gravity, and unless blood be mixed with it, is usually quite free from albumen. At the end of about a week symptoms appear which are commonly fol- lowed by a fatal termination v/itiiin two or three days at the latest. The most distinctive of these are muscular twitchings, which Dr. Roberts says are never wanting. Contraction of the pupils also constantly occurs. The muscular weakness now rapidly increases, and, as a result of its involving the respiratory muscles, the breathing is slow, panting, and laborious. The appetite is entirely lost, and the tongue and the palate become dry. There is increasing drowsiness, with short fitful snatches of sleep and a little rambling delirium. Convulsions and coma rarely set in, the intellect being commonly preserved to the last, so that the patient has in more than one instance spoken sensibly the instant before his death. Diarrhoea is of quite exceptional occurrence, and so is severe vomiting. The skin is moist^ and often sweats pro- fusely. There is never any ammoniacal or urinous odour from the surface of the skin or with the breath, nor does the body give off such odours after death. In one instance slight anasarca appeared when the suppres- sion first took place, but it passed off entirely on the third day. The duration of life is stated by Dr. Eoberts to be as a rule from nine to eleven days, and he remarks that tlie passing of a few ounces or even of two or three pints of a dilute urine does not seem to prolong it by more