SACCULATED AORTIC ANEURISM. 280 bruit in tlie left axilla is increased. He is paler, has no cougli or difficulty in swallowing; no change in the general physical signs. " In consequence of this change Dr. White asked Mr. Gould to see the man with him with a view to operative interference for his relief. It was evident that the aneur- ism was undergoing rapid enlargement and that, if left alone, death from external or subcutaneous rupture of the sac was imminent. After explaining the position to the patient it was decided to introduce some fine steel wire into the sac, and this was done on January 11th at five o^clock in the afternoon. Operation.—The part was rendered insensitive by a subcutaneous injection of five minims of a 20 per cent, solution of hydrochlorate of cocaine, and then a fine Southey^s trocar was thrust into the aneurism about the level of the third intercostal space, immediately above the right nipple and at a spot where the pulsation seemed to be most superficial. Bright blood spurted from the cannula, through whicli fine steel wire was slowly passed. When about nine or ten feet of the wire had been thus passed in, it broke and it was found impossible to push the broken end through the cannula. Accordingly, a second puncture was made immediately below the first, and twenty-two feet of the same wire was passed into the aneurism ; as there was now distinct and increasing resistance to the passage of the wire the cannula was slowly withdrawn and the wire cut close to the skin, and then the same was done to the first cannula. A pad of boracic lint was strapped over the punctures. It was estimated that from ten to twelve ounces of blood escaped through the cannula while the wire was being introduced, but the haemorrhage was at once controlled by the pad. The operation lasted one hour and a quarter. The patient was nervous and excited throughout, and at times became faint, and for this an ounce and a half of brandy was given. He did not complain of any pain. Immediately after the opera-