388 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. to lift the legs from tlie bed, and to move tliem laterally, crossing one over the other. 28th.—Patient complains that she does not feel so well, and this she attributes to going out and falling on the street. (She has not been out of the ward since her admission to the hospital.) She moves her limbs more freely, however, and has no pain. February 14th.—Yesterday, for the first time, she was able to feed herself ; to-day, she complains of abdominal pain, chiefly in the region of the lower border of the liver. There is but little, if any, tenderness, her tongue is clean and moist, and she does not feel sick. She can raise herself in bed, and has much greater power of extension in the arms, and of dorsal flexion of the feet. There is no difference as regards wasting of muscles, and no return of reflexes. 19th.—She is now able to walk a little round the ward, supported on either side, and can stand with very little assistance. In walking she seems to have most difficulty in getting under way, the ankles bending under her when she first stands up, but after being fairly started she moves her legs pretty well. The toes are turned in, how- ever, and she tends to walk on the outside of the foot; the toes are rather scraped along the floor. She walks best when looking down at her feet. When sitting, she can cross one leg over the other with tolerable ease. 28th.—There is a marked improvement now in her mental state. Her memory is clearer, and she has not the delusions about getting up and going out for a walk which she used to have. She can walk now with a little support on one side. In about ten days after this she could walk with the help of a stick only, and was able to dress herself, and a week later the stick was discarded, and she walked with- out support of any kind. It was noticed, however, that after being out of bed the greater part of the day her feet and legs became cedematous ; but this condition has gradu- ally improved, her progress has latterly been uninterrup-