MULTIPLE EMBOLISM OF ARTERIES. 138 have resulted either from a softening of the artery walls by suppuration^ as in the cases recorded by Mr. Symonds in the Clinical Society's ' Transactions/ vol. xix, p. 140, 1886, and in the Pathological Society's ^ Transactions/ vol. XXXV, 1884, p. 146 ; or from a failure to obliterate the vessel at the point of ligature^ as in the case recorded by Mr. Thomas Smith, in which the ligature of the superficial femoral with catgut for the cure of a popliteal aneurism failed in its object, and also produced an aneurism at the site of the operation. We would therefore urge that not only is there no proof that an artery ever becomes mechanically dilated behind an embolus, but we deny that such an event as mechanical dilatation has ever been known to follow the obstruction offered to the blood-stream by a ligature. Again, it will be readily conceded that, considering the frequency of embolism, the percentage of cases which result in aneurism is infinitesimal, and it is difficult to suppose that in a single individual two arteries should be completely ulcerated through and several others in process of destruction at the time of death without the presence of some specific cause. It appears obvious to us that the theories of dilatation occurring above the seat of embolism, of the distension of the vessel by the current of blood through an artery which is narrowed and not obliterated, and others which have been propounded, are not sufiicient to meet the case. Two other explanations remain : the one originally sug- gested, we believe, by Dr. Goodhart, is that aneurism only occurs when the embolus is the ^' product of a funga- ting endocarditis in which the vegetations are large, and often, though not always, accompanied by ulceration;"^ the other is that of Ponfick, who attributes the formation of aneurism to the calcareous nature of the embolus, and argues that by its mechanical irritation it produces an ulceration of the vessel at the seat of plugging.^ 1 ' Path. Soc. Trans.,' vol. xxviii, p. 107. ^ ' Virchow's Archiv,' vol. Iviii, p. 528.