254 SUPPRESSION OF URINE. urine^ and suffered more or less pain^ after which, lie gradu- ally regained his previous health. On February 2nd, i. e. about fourteen days later, the pain and bloody urine returned, and he was then brought to the hospital. The day after his admission it was noted that he had complained of pain in his side but had not vomited. Careful palpation, ¥/hich did not appear to cause pain, failed to detect any local abnormality. The urine was pale in colour, sp. gr. 1005, faintly acid, free from deposit and from albumen. He remained in the hospital about three weeks, but beyond the slight pain and some little hsematuria for a day or two, there were no symptoms to point to injury or disease of the kidney, and he was accordingly discharged. His temperature was raised for the first few days to about 100° F., but subse- quently went down, and continued normal. Nothing more was heard of him until the end of April, when he was brought back and readmitted. It was then stated that he had been very variable since his discharge, sometimes being apparently well, at others complaining of severe pain in the side, and vomiting; for the last five days there had been pain in both sides, and he had vomited and had had shivering fits occasionally. On further questioning, the mother stated that he had had sym- ptoms of this kind for twelve months previous to his accident but that they had got worse since. His urine had not con- tained any blood previous to the accident. On readmission (April 27th) he was found to have a prominent swelling, occupying the space between the costal arch and the crest of the ilium, reaching forward as far as the mid-line of the body, and backwards, nearly to the spine j it was smooth on the surface, tense, with obscure fluctuation, dull on percussion and sharply defined at the front margin. The boy complained of pain and some tenderness over the whole swelling, back and front. The first urine passed was dark in colour from the presence of blood. The temperature was normal. He was kept in bed ; the urine continued to contain blood until April