ESTEA-UTERINE GESTATION. 37 quantity of offensive discharge issuing from the vagina, and owing to its irritating character the labia and nates were much excoriated and inflamed. The discharge was yellow in colour, with a slightly faecal odour, and resembled in character the contents of the small intestine. Examined microscopically it showed broken-down bits of muscular fibre^ and broken-down vegetable tissue, and differed en- tirely in character from the contents of the rectum, which contained ordinary lumpy fseces. Examination with the spec- ulum was difficult on account of the vaginitis present, but it showed that this yellow discharge issued through the os uteri^ and that there was no recto-vaginal fistula present. The bladder contained about twelve ounces of high- coloured urine, which was free from albumen. As a preliminary to further treatment, I directed the vagina to be regularly washed out with warm Condy and water, and kept plugged with pledgets of iodoform wool, and the external eczematous parts to be dressed with iodoform and vaseline. As a medicine she had quinine and such sedatives as appeared necessary. Under this treatment she became much more comfortable and the inflamed condition of the external genitals subsided. On December 14th she passed _per vaginam the ossified shaft of a foetal tibia, which when compared with specimens in the museum appeared to correspond with that of a foetus between five and six months of uterine age. I then decided upon dilating the cervix, and exploring the uterine cavity; and on December 18th this was effected, the patient being anaesthetized. The cervix was dilated with Hegar^s dilators up to No. 20. The cervical canal was unusually long; on passing the finger through the inner os it reached the body of a small foetus in a decomposing condition, lying transversely as it were in the uterine cavity, with the head towards the left side. I made several efforts to extract it, firstly by attempts at version with traction, but fragments only of the limbs came away, including one entire femur with remnants of soft parts attached, the main portion of the body appearing to be tightly fixed in