295 ANEUEISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. 8th some bloody serum oozed from a purplish spot at the outer side of the swelling, quite remote from the puncture. The sputa continued slightly bloody. The difficulty of breathing increased ; it seemed referable to pressure on the trachea. Death occurred on March 9th at 11 a.m._, nearly thirteen days after the date of the introduction of the wire, apparently from exhaustion. His temperature ranged during the three first three days between 98째 and 99째 F. ; on the third day it touched 99*9째 짜.j its maximum, and during the last three days it was subnormal. For the following account of the post-mortem examina- tion I am indebted to Mr. Leopold Hudson, the patholo- gist to the hospital. On dissection the aneurism was found to spring from the first part of the right subclavian artery. It formed a large, roughly spherical swelling which measured 6^ inches in the vertical, and 7 inches in the horizontal direc- tion. It projected into the neck 4J inches above the clavicle, measuring from the middle of that bone, where its eroded end could be felt beneath the skin. From its highest point it passed obliquely downwards, traversing the median line one inch above the episternal notch, dis- placing but not compressing the trachea, and gaining a firmer attachment to the inner half inch of the left clavicle ; from this point it passed downward just internal to the left first chondro-sternal joint, then crossed the sternum obliquely to the right second costal cartilage, and con- tinuing in this line became attached to the right third rib 2^ inches from the sternum. It followed this rib round the thorax for 4 inches, then turned up obliquely across the second and first ribs behind, and became attached to the right side of the bodies of the fifth, sixth, and seventh cervical vertebrae, the cancellous tissue of these being eroded and laid bare, the corresponding intervertebral discs being also attacked, but destroyed to a much less extent than the bone. Looked at from behind, its attach- ment to the sternum followed a line from the left clavicle