RESTORATION OF THE CANAL AFTER REMOVING 346 are interrupted stitches, isolated from one another and placed vertically to the plane of the intestinal lumen. The use of a continuous thread has certain advantages; by it the entire surfaces are firmly brought into apposition at the time of suture, and if applied with mathematical exactness the thread is capable of producing absolutely correct apposition, no point being left unguarded ; but it has a capital disadvantage, which, I submit, renders it absolutely untrustworthy. All sutures tend to work their way loose into the lumen of the gut. All parts of the bowel do not throw off the suture at one and the same time. However firmly the suture may be applied, however thoroughly it may bring the apposed surfaces together at the time, it is only firm and efficient as long as every part of it is so ; when, therefore, it has become loose by the natural freeing of one part, any other portion of the divided surface not yet firmly and organically united will leak and the whole aim of the suture be defeated. To put it in another way, no patient or surgeon will feel safe until the time required for the loosening of the whole thread has elapsed; until that time there will always be the possibility of sudden leakage, peritonitis, and death. The advantages of interrupted sutures are these. They are comparatively easily and quickly used ; they allow of fairly easy adaptation of one bowel-end to another, and each stitch is independent of its fellows, so that the fall of one does not tend to loosen the grip of its neighbour. But the drawbacks are serious. Placed as they all are, vertically to the plane of the intestine, they command absolutely only that line of intestinal wall within their grip; between each stitch and its fellow is a portion of wall which is free, and these spaces tend, as Travers said, " to form apertures, the diameter of which is as the distance between the stitches.^' The danger of such possible apertures need scarcely be pointed out. Besides, these stitches can have no influence upon the after behaviour of the valvular ring, which may hereafter act as an obstruction. It may be said that this ring will