11 PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. of late years had conducted a series of experiments in the treatment of synechise by electricity^ though I am informed without satisfactory results. At University College Hospital he was very much liked by those who knew him intimately; but he was somewhat shy and retiring in disposition, and frequently failed to make that impression on strangers, and acquaintances generally, that a more genial, though less sincere, man would more frequently secure with advantage to himself and his well-doing. Mr. Streatfeild was elected a Fellow of this Society in 1858. He was a Member of the Council in 1874-75, and served on the Library Committee in 1867-68. Dr. John Farhin died at Brighton on the 18th of March, 1886. He was born on the 10th of May, 1801. His father was one of the principal officers of Her Majesty's Dock- yards at Sheerness and Chatham. He was educated by Dr. Griffiths, one of the canons of Eochester, and studied under Abernethy at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. He was a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, and a Corresponding Fellow of the Royal Academies of Medi- cine and Surgery of Madrid, Barcelona, and Cadiz. Dr. Parkin commenced practice in London, in Dover Street, Piccadilly, and from all I can learn his practice was chiefly confined to the treatment of mental disorders. During his residence in London he had, first at Chelsea, and subsequently at Battersea, private accommodation for the reception and treatment of the insane. In the study of this special subject he is reported to have taken the deepest interest, though I do not discover that he has left behind him the results of his observations and experience. This is remarkable, as he was a most industrious and thoughtful writer on subjects he took up for examination or investi- gation. Prior to his settling in London he had spent much time in different parts of Spain, that he might have the oppor- tunity of investigating the subject of cholera.