383 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. quently^ the latter being now a healthy woman of twenty- two years of age. There was no history of syphilis on the side of either the patient or her husband. Her present illness came on about three weeks before admission with pains about the joints, which were thought to be rheumatic; these were first noticed in the knee-joints, and then in the hands and ankles. She was observed, on admission, to be a sparely nou- rished woman, peevish in manner, with dilated facial capillaries, having pain in the joints and a short cough. Her chest showed fair elevation and expansion, and was normally resonant; breathing was weak and accompanied here and there by scattered sonorosibilant sounds. The hearths apex was in the normal position, impulse feeble, sounds fairly normal. In the abdomen the liver extended to near the level of the umbilicus, measuring eight inches in the vertical nipple line. Its margin was sharp, and the surface smooth ; it was free from tenderness, and was distinctly felt descending with deep inspiration. There was no dulness in the flanks, and no jaundice. Both knee-joints and ankles were tender, and the former were thought to contain a little fluid ; there was no redness, and they did not feel hot. She had all the appearance of a person of alcoholic habit, but what with the family history of rheumatism, the apparent localisation of pain in the joints, and slight effusion into the knees, I was disposed to pass over her case very lightly as one of slight rheumatism, but on examining her again a few days later (Nov. 10th) I observed that she had double wrist-drop. The hands could be held out in straight line with the forearm but there was no power of further extension. The extensor muscles were wasted, and there was tenderness on pres- sure over nerve-trunks, and on grasping the arm or fore- arm. As to the legs, it was found that the ankle-joints were painful on movement, and also the muscles of the calves when handled. The muscles of the legs generally were wasted and flabby, the feet dropped, and without