OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETEE BY A CALCULUS. 239 I saw him on the evening of the 17th. He was then in great pain of a spasmodic character. There was con- siderable tenderness over the right kidney, but no tumour was discovered on careful palpation. There were anorexia and nausea^ and a temperature of 102°. The urine was clear_, but contained a few pus-cells and rather more than a trace of albumen ; no casts were seen. After a few days the pain, which had been somewhat relieved by hot fomentations and morphia, disappeared, and at the same time the temperature, which had remained high, fell to normal and there was a considerable increase of pus in the urine. As it was assumed that some obstruction to the ureter had been overcome he was allowed to get up and to go out, and it was intended that he should go into the country in order to recruit, but after he had been walking rather more than usual and, it should be added, after the bladder had been sounded without the discovery of a calculus, the pain returned again and the temperature assumed a hectic character, varying from 99° in the morning to 102° at night, whilst the urine became less turbid. The pain increased very much and the tenderness reappeared, the former shooting down into the groin, the latter being most marked in the back between the ribs and the right iliac crest. The urine was now noticed to contain flocculent masses, which under the microscope were seen to consist chiefly of long felted chains of short bacteria. It was acid and free from putrefactive smell. It is most probable that it also contained granular and hyaline casts, as they were pre- sent in large quantities a few days later, but they were not carefully looked for at this time. The most peculiar feature about the urine—and it is one to which I would direct special attention—was the enormous increase in the amount of albumen without any increase in the quantity of pus, so that by July 12th it had reached the proportion of one half, at which period the granular and hyaline casts were exceedingly abundant. It seemed almost certain that there was some deeply-