104 ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OP THE FAUCES. rhinoscope surmises that the pain is reflex, travelling along the glosso-pharyngeal and Jacobson^s nerves. Deafness has sometimes been found. Well-marked physical signs in the lungs will generally be found, but Isambert not being able to detect any in some of his cases concluded, as we think somewhat hastily, that the disease might be primary in the pharynx. The in- ability to detect any physical signs in the lungs in a case of suspected tuberculosis does not, in our opinion, go far to establish that such tuberculosis does not exist. Intest- inal ulceration would appear to be almost constant, though during life there is frequently no proof of it. There is always fever, and death is often ushered in by delirium, being due to exhaustion consequent upon the dysphagia as much as anything else. As regards the diagnosis it is only in the earlier stages that there should be much difiiculty. Follicular tonsillitis and diphtheria are the conditions which would first have to be eliminated, and this may be a matter of some diffi- culty. The tubercular affection is much more likely to begin on the soft palate than the tonsils, which may escape altogether, whilst the other maladies almost invariably commence with swelling of the tonsils. Attention should always be paid to the mode of onset, but in many instances it must be admitted that it is almost impossible to recognise the complaint in the incipient stages. At a later period, the coalescence of the spots to form superficial ulcerations has very little in common with diphtheria. Syphilis is perhaps the only other disease which might produce a condition resembling the tuber- cular disease under consideration. The mucous patches of secondary or inherited syphilis would be distinguished by the absence of any surrounding inflammation or papules, by their co-existence on the mucous membrane of the cheeks and gums and on the tongue, and by their very slight tendency to undergo ulceration. Gummatous infil- tration or ulceration would present no difficulty in the