HEADACHE TO THE EXCRETION OF URIC ACID. 367 1 ' On Urinary and Eenal Diseases/ ed. iv, p. 56. I would suppose tlien that in the case of this headache, a considerable excretion of urea and uric acid is going forward^ as on the 25th of December (see table) ; suddenly from some cause, either internal formation (dyspepsia and acid fermentation, &c.) or unwary introduction from without, a dose of acid is brought in, and for a time diminishes the alkalescence of the blood, and causes retention of uric acid. It will be seen by looking at the table that though 12'5 gr. of uric acid were passed on the 25th it was diminished with reference to the urea; then comes the headache, and with it, on the 26th (first part), a plus excretion of uric acid having its source in the previous retention. With regard to the theory of diminished alkalinity of the blood, and the way in which it enables us to explain the effect of the diet treatment of this headache, I will quote what Sir W. Eoberts^ says of the '^alkaliue tide " If as is believed, the normal alkalescence of the blood is due to the preponderance of alkaline bases in all our ordinary articles of food, a meal is jpro tanto a dose of alkali, and must necessarily for a time add to the alkalescence of the blood.^^ If an ordinary meal is a dose of alkali, a some- what vegetarian meal, from which butcher^s meat and beer are absent, must surely be a large dose of alkali; and here we have ready to hand a fairly good explanation of the effects of somewhat vegetarian diet in this form of headache, for there can be little doubt that it acts by keeping up the alkalescence of the blood, and preventing retention of uric acid from occurring. The relation I have now shown to exist between the excretion of uric acid and this headache has been to some extent anticipated by those who have noticed the intimate relation of this headache to gout, and in my paper in the ^Practitioner^ of March, 1886 (page 181), thinking over these relations, and referring to Prof. Latham^s ' Lectures on Headache ^ I ask, May not excess of uric acid in the blood cause such vaso-motor irritation, the excess being