232 TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. unwasTied, an ordinary air-syringe is used, and a second cliest-tube is provided for the outflow. Roser's views and his practice entirely agree with my own with regard to the mechanical uses of the injected air, but from his short description it does not appear to what extent he employed perflation systematically as a healing agent. Roser's results, as far as reported, were highly satisfactory, even in the presence of such complications as pulmonary or bronchial fistula. It is surprising that in spite of this success the method should have failed to become generally known, or fairly tested. H. Quincke^ suggested as an improvement an ingenious apparatus, whereby air and fluid were alternately injected. The leading pretext for this innovation was the alleged danger arising from shifting the patient's position during the first days after incision. Quincke's method, which can be applied strictly in situ, is excellent theoretically, but its results do not sufficiently commend it. Perflation, as I have practised it, consists in systematic through-ventilation '^ of the suppurating cavity. 1 have selected the term perflation as the shortest and most explicit word conveying that the chest is not inflated, nor merely injected with air, but "blown through." The method has been described in the ^ Lancet' (July 31st, 1886, p. 226), and need only be briefly sketched here. The following apparatus is necessary : (1) a Richardson's bellows ; (2) india-rubber tubing to conduct the air from the bellows into the bottle and from the bottle into the chest ; lastly, (3) a tall wash-bottle containing a short column of strongly carbolised water (y^), to act as a purifier and as a valve for the air to be forced through it. This bottle, in winter, should stand in warm water. In cases where a single opening has been made into the chest, if the tube be introduced to a sufficient depth, air conveyed by the tube from the bellows will pervade the whole space before it escapes at the orifice by the side of the tube; and if any obstruction should exist near the 1 'Berliner klin. Wochcnschrift,' 1872, p. 65.