198 RUPTURE OP THE BLADDER. Vespere: Temperature 101'8°, pulse 116. Vomited after the bread and butter to-daj. " 8th.—Temperature 99°, pulse 90. Tongue moist and clean. Abdo- men distended and tympanitic, but less tender. No sickness to-day after food. Catheter still in ; one pint and a half of urine has been passed. Ordered four ounces of brandy daily. " 9th.—Temperature 101°, pulse 98. Complains of a good deal of pain in hypogastrium. Catheter removed, washed, and re-introduced. The point was covered with what appeared to be pus. Bowels opened twice during the day ; motions soft and clay-coloured. No more sickness. Vespere : Temperature 100"4°, pulse 100. No further change. " 10th.—Still much, sometimes very acute, pain in hypogastric region; to-day, moreover, there is considerable thickening and hardness above the symphysis pubis as high as half-way to the umbilicus, but extending farther to the right than to the left of the median line. The abdomen is somewhat less distended, and, except in the hypogastrium, less tender. Bowels open once this morning, the stools being less loose than yesterday. Catheter to be removed daily and washed out. " 11th.—Temperature 100°, pulse 104. Complains of griping pains in hypogastrium and in the course of the ascending and descending colon, which last a minute or two and then pass off. Abdomen more swollen and tense. " 13th.—Temperature 99 6°, pulse 72. Complains of more pain to-day in hypogastrium; the tenderness in this region is more considerable than it has been during the last few days, but the induration is somewhat less. There is a free thick white discharge by the side of the catheter, and no urine is flowing through the catheter. On removing the catheter it was found plugged with muco-pus. No. 10 catheter was introduced, and about three ounces of clear urine drawn off. Ordered to continue the pills and hot fomentations. The bladder is to be washed out with warm water containing a few drops of a mixture of eight grains of thymol in two ounces of glycerine. " 14th.—The patient complained of so much increase of pain in the hypogastrium after the injection that it is not to be repeated; it was only used once. He passed this morning a stool consisting only of opaque^ gelatinous matter, like the white of egg, which, on boiling with liquor potassse, became quite clear. Urine contains pus ; specific gravity 1015. " 16th.—Bowels open slightly this morning, the action being attended with much pain. Examined per rectum: no induration or thickening about the bowel, which is full of soft, yellow, solid faeces. Up to yester- day the urine had been pretty clear, but on re-introducing the catheter this morning a quantity of thick, dirty-looking pus first passed, and then the urine flowed pretty clear. On removing the catheter the end which