j WRITERS^ CRAMP AND IMPAIRED WRITING POWER. 325 Oilenerative (14 cases). ll-ve- tei: rness. Joint trouble. ^0 R. 1st metacarpo- phalangeal Hips, shoulders, wrists, fingers Finger- joints often " crack " after writing Finger- joints thickened None Trophic cliange. Congenital brown mark on inner side of R. arm Supposed cause. Overwork, worry Drink Drink Writing ? Very gradual onset; due to senile tremor. Paralysis agitans, which has been coming on for years. Optic discs small and white. Colour-blind, very emotional, cries easily, temperate, optic discs normal. Tongue foul; gouty ; knee-jerk lessened. Occasional diplopia and lightning pains. Case of posterior sclerosis ? An old injury of left median nerve has caused wasting of muscles of ball of left thumb which renders comparison of electric irritability of no value. Optic discs are greyish in colour. Doubtful pre- systolic murmur. Father died, set. 45, of paralysis. Is pale. Grasps pen very tightly, and the pen slips between index and mid- finger. Difiiculty in writing following a fall from his horse. When seen he was paraplegic .vith all the signs of lateral sclerosis affecting the right arm as well as the le^is to some extent. Gouty; writing difficult, caused by slight contraction of the palmar fascia. Pain over 1st R. D. I. when she holds anything. The right tliumb creaks when flexed. Whole arm aches. The 1st R. D. I. is tender to touch, and a deep-seated tbickened band can be lelt in it. Ordei'ed blister and mercurial ointment to rub in. Result? Tremor of tongue; excessive knee-jerk on right side. For some months he has noticed that dipping the liands into cold water causes an immediate desire to evacuate the bowels. This does not occur with hot water, nor when the feet are dipped into cold or hot! water. Rheumatic. Has had lumbago and muscular rheumatism. Tender- ness over cervico-dorsal vertebrae. Writes well enough except for the pain. Completely cured by a blister over the tender vertebrae with saline purgatives and iodide of potassium. Had been told he was suffering from "writers' cramp and disease of the spinal cord." Was treated for alcoholic dyspepsia and com- pletely recovered. Gouty dyspepsia. Father a drunkard ; mother nervous, Rheumatic or gouty? Tender points between metacarpal boues. Her condition fluctuated, but she wms much relieved by massage. Right side of chest smaller than left. Knee-jerk absent on both sides. Pale ; has lost flesh rapidly. Memory impaired. Optic discs a dead white in centre. Has had much domestic worry. Separated from liis wife \