434 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OP THE LIPS AND MOUTH. If it were of tliat nature, liowever, it must liave been of recent acquisition, for the stomatitis was acute and sym- metrical. It was quite out of the question that there had been any recent syphilis, indeed the history of the two previous attacks and of complete recovery between them, may, I think, be considered to put this suspicion entirely aside. Nor on careful examination did the state of his mouth resemble anything that occurs in syphilis.^ There were large patches inside his lips and cheeks which were well margined and covered by a thick pellicular membrane. When this membrane was peeled off the surface easily bled. This tendency to bleed was, I may remark, noticed in most of the other cases. The tongue and palate were not affected. The skin eruption, which had been deve- loped quite independently of any drug treatment, consisted in the formation, on the hands and feet, of patches of erythema as large as sixpences, which rapidly vesicated, but without producing bullae. There were not more than about half a dozen of these on each of the extremities, and none on other parts. No suggestion could be made as to the cause of the attack. Mr. T— appeared to be perfectly well, but was beginning to feel somewhat low, and to lose flesh, in consequence of the difficulty in taking food. He got quickly well under small doses of opium. In conclusion, it may be remarked that none of the cases seem to afford any light as to the real cause of the malady. It may, however, be plausibly conjectured that it is allied to some of the severe forms of skin disease which are attended by failure of health and tendency, unless cured, to death. Examples of this we have in pemphigus, of which the natural termination is death in six months unless cured by arsenic, and in which as a further feature of resemblance the mouth is in some cases affected as well as the skin. Nor is common pem- phigus the only instance, for pityriasis rubra and certain rare forms of psoriasis and lichen ruber and planus, especially when occurring in the aged, show a tendency to ^ In this my opinion coincided with Dr. Whistler's.