ON THE ACTIVE PRINCIPLE OF CASTOR OIL. 113 active principles from castor oil, when shaken up with it for a long time. Again, I never found the oil prepared by me, nor that left by Bubnow, stronger than the ordi- nary commercial oil; and I can only say that it seems as if the statement made by Parola and repeated in various books (e. g. Fliickiger and Hanbury), to the effect that oil extracted from the seeds by alcohol keeps better, does not cause nausea or vomiting, and is four times as strong as ordinary oil, is based upon an error of observation. It does not seem that they ever filtered their oil (extracted by alcohol) through paper, but this I always did. In fact on one occasion where I had filtered only through cloth as they did, the solution showed only a very slight cloudi- ness indeed, but was much more energetic than usual. It was not until I refiltered through paper that I found that it was this mere trace of impurity which made the difference in activity. It is evident that if further proof be required it is only necessary to take the oil cake, and as it has lost its milder oil by pressure, to extract it by alcohol. One thus gets almost 20 per cent, of the weight of cake of oil of a rather mawkish almondy smell, but it is not one whit more active than the usual oil. Ricinoleic acid I found, like others, to be perfectly inert in a fifteen-gramme dose, which would be a powerful dose were it like castor oil in activity. Olive oil soaked on the castor-seed powder did not take up any active principle. Some of the substances which give rise to the characteristic disagreeable flavour of castor oil can be got during sapo- nification of it, but they are inactive. The taste of ricinoleic acid is quite different, though also nauseous. As many experimenters have tried to get the active principle of castor oil by saponification, and it was evident that it disappeared en route, I tried all the different bodies left in the solutions, but found none active. It is thus evident that it is destroyed by saponification, and I there- fore tried, but in vain, to see if it were possible to get a substance differing in activity and in solubility in diluted alcohol. Thus absolute alcohol mixes in any quantity VOL. LXX. 8