108 ON THE ACTIVE PRINCIPLE OP CASTOR OIL. the powdered and. shelled seeds by alcohol and ether, a process which required eight days, I extracted with acid ; but Bubnow having left no details I was obliged to make a number of experiments in order to ascertain the proper strength of acid. These experiments showed that hydro- chloric acid containing 1 per cent, of absolute acid yielded a precipitate with carbonate of soda which was inactive, and so was that obtained with any stronger acid. An acid containing 4 per 1000 of HCl was found serviceable, as it yielded an active precipitate, although it did not appear to remove the whole of the active principles from the seeds, inasmuch as the residue still remained active after being treated with acid for twelve hours. When the acid was weaker than 1 per 1000 no precipitate was obtained. When the precipitate was treated with sulphate of copper and caustic soda it gave the reaction character- istic of albumen very strongly, so that it evidently con- tained an albuminous substance. I next tried to make a watery extract of the powdered seeds, but as it could not be got clear by filtration I obtained from Italy some of the seed cake, that is, seed from which the oil had been expressed. This seed cake and the active seeds I had experimented upon were obtained from the same source. Numerous observations have already shown that the sym- ptoms of poisoning by castor-oil seeds are vomiting, purging, and collapse, occasionally with a subsequent febrile condition, and sometimes albuminuria. In some experiments I found that if 5 grammes of the shelled seeds in the natural state were given to a rabbit, nothing was to be noticed within the first few hours ; for example, if given at 4 p.m. nothing would be observed that evening, but next morning the animal would suffer from violent diarrhoea and would die any time after 7 p.m. on the second day. The only abnormal post-mortem appearances were in the intestine, with the exception that as a rule the stomach was slightly inflamed at the pylorus. Close to the pylorus the intestine was red with scattered extrava- sations, the glands were swollen, and though not much