TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. 227 painlessly expelled^ by the same method, a fresh supply of false membrane, with a little pus ; and again on the 17th a small shreddy mass, weighing about four drachms, to- gether with two fluid drachms of pus. An examination of the chest, made on the 15th, had revealed the presence of loud bronchial breathing opposite the left first and second cartilages ; this was replaced, on the 17th, by vesicular breathing. The vesicular murmur was audible, before the dressings were detached from the wounds, as low as the fourth rib anteriorly, and as the seventh rib behind. After their removal the breathing became less vesicular and mixed with amphoric notes. At the base, front and back, the breathing was purely amphoric. The heart had not returned to its normal apex-site, although it closely approached that spot. A probe inserted anteriorly still reached with facility the region covered by the second left costo-sternal junction, and could be sent far and free to- wards the posterior opening ; but in the axillary direction the mobile surface of the lung could be felt at the level of the third rib. Owing to the narrowness and obliquity of the intercostal spaces the posterior part of the pleura could not be explored satisfactorily. On the 18th, 19th, and 20th the dressings showed only stains of pus; and hardly any discharge was expelled by perflation. On the 22nd (being the tenth day from the date of operation), about one ounce of slightly turbid, blood-stained serum escaped ; and about six drachms of the same fluid, but of clearer quality, were discharged on the 24th. On this date auscultation yielded, before any air was admitted, vesicular sounds posteriorly as far as the base of the lung and anteriorly close up to the wound, but not in the interval between the two wounds. Air having been let in, the vesicular breath-sound was transformed into a harsh blowing, which in the scapular region was accompanied with a faint amphoric sound ; whilst true amphoric breathing extended over an area one and a half inches in diameter between the wounds. No abnormality of the voice-sounds was found except a little way above the