178 INDURATION IN THE PRIMARY 145, where the patient had been in hospital three weeks when the sore appeared, having recovered from the attack o£ gonorrhoea for which she was admitted. Here the sore was a slight and quiet one for seven days, when suddenly it assumed an angry surface, and infiltration with redness quickly spread throughout both labia. This gradually subsided into chronic and lasting thickening. With such exceptions of sudden development it would appear that thickening is seldom if ever highly developed in the early course of the sore. We have seen, indeed, that it is in the large majority of cases quite absent then, and that when present it is only slight and soft. It may not develop beyond this grade, but continue in the same degree throughout. It is more common, however, for it to become more marked with the progress of the sore, and in a considerable number of cases to become much more developed in the latter half of the course of the sore and up to the time of the commencement of its healing or even at the time of its healing. It is during this period espe- cially that the highest degree is reached and the sores most of all assume the characters of typical induration."" This marked accession of induration will be found noted in a good many, seventeen at least, of the cases in table A (Nos. 7, 53, 137, 6, 45, 77, 20, 139, 144, 149, 61, 71, 28, 96, 54, 38, 21). Induration usually retains or increases its degree, at least to the time of the commencement of healing; it may subside jpari "passu with the healing, but frequently when considerable its disappearance is slow and gradual, and may take many weeks to accomplish. The clinical characters of the induration must depend upon, and be in accordance with, the pathological changes which are its cause. At first a slight infiltration of young cells would cause no hardness, which can only result from the sclerosing process, which is only gradually accom- plished in an abundant mass of exudation cells. The pathological process being as a rule gradual and slowly developmental, the progress of the clinical characters