OVARIOTOMY. 42 column which contained the names of the private medical attendants of the patients. With such full details as are given in the present tables^ anyone wishing to identify a case can have no difficulty in doing so, without his name being attached, and the temperatures, pulses, and special treatment are of great practical value, as showing not merely the result in each case, but the amount of dis- turbance following the operation, and the treatment by which it was met. As the greater number of the cases required no special treatment, I will briefly describe the general method followed in the absence of special complications. Each patient is nursed by a single nurse, who takes entire charge night and day. The patient is placed upon h.er back in bed with the head and shoulders well sup- ported by an inclined plane of pillows, and the knees raised and supported by a firm pillow placed under them. This position is maintained for a fortnight, i.e. until the patient gets up on to the couch; after this she is allowed to lie on her side, or in any position which she prefers. The temperature is taken in the vagina for the first twenty- four hours at frequent intervals, afterwards at gradually lengthened intervals in the axilla; the pulse is also noted from time to time by the nurse, and by myself at the visits. As soon as the patient is sufficiently recovered from the chloroform to feel pain, twenty minims of laudanum, in an ounce of tepid water, are injected into the rectum. If two or three such doses are necessary they are given at short intervals. Clear beef-tea, made without salt, is injected into the rectum, three ounces every three hours, till sufficient nourishment can be taken by the mouth; and to every other of these injections twenty minims of lau- danum are added for the first few days; quinine, wine, or other medicines being given in the same way if required. A little cracked ice, sips of warm water, or of plain soda- water, according to the fancy of the patient, are allowed during the first twenty-four hours, or until any sickness which may be present has ceased, and then milk and soda-