president's address. 32 favourite, and with most of whom he became the trusted and honoured friend. In the midst of this fair promise of a successful future Dr. Daubeny became the subject of an attack of acute rheumatism, the effects of which he apparently was never able to shake off. His health broke down, and he was crippled to such an extent that he was compelled to give up practice in London, in order to seek a climate more congenial to his constitutional condition than any place in England is able to afford. After travelling abroad for some two years, he decided to settle at San Remo. This was twenty-five years ago, when San Remo was but little known to the English public, and when it could have afforded but little professional employment to an English physician. But twenty-five years have worked a great change in many of what were then but small villages on the Mediterranean coast of France and Italy, and San Remo has in no small measure participated in the improvement and growth. To some extent this change may justly be attributed to Dr. Daubeny's advocacy of its attractions, and his personal merits and good qualities as a physician. He might justly be looked upon as one of the founders of this popular and desirable winter residence for those who seek protection from the cold winds and frost, of more northern latitudes ; only one English resident having preceded him in making San Remo a home. Dr. Daubeny was an extremely shrewd and clever practitioner; a keen obsever, with great knowledge of human nature ; very witty and clever in repartee; a most genial companion and firm friend. He was greatly beloved by all who knew him, and highly esteemed by all the residents of San Remo, English and foreign. He was a most straightforward, honorable member of our profession, a man respected by patients and friends.^ Dr. Daubeny died at San Remo on the 26th of January of this year, after an illness of some thirty days, due to 1 Letters from Dr. Freeman, Dr. Kay Shuttlevvorth, Dr. Turner, and Mr. Le Gros Clark.