417 IN INFANTS AND ITS CAUSES. with undermined edges whicli represented an earlier stage of the process, the large one having been formed by the coalescence of four or five blisters the size of a pea, and without any special arrangement with regard to each other. At the root of the penis in front was a superficial excoriation produced by scratching, but the child seemed to be in no pain. The temperature was 100*4° in the rectum. There were some subcrepitant rales at the bases, but no dulness. The mother said he had quite recovered after the measles, ate well, and ran about until these ulcers appeared. His subsequent history is unknown. Case 4.—Emma L—, aet. 14 months, admitted on Nov- ember 29th, 1886, as out-patient at Shadwell. Ten days previously two little white spots the size of a pea appeared in the groin ; they were at first full of water but soon burst, and the mother applied fuller^s earth and poulticed them. On admission there was on the thigh an ulcer the size of a hemp seed, and a red areola round it; it had begun the day before as a red spot, and was like the others were at first. On the lower border of the groin, extending down to the vulva, was a chain of ulcers with yellowish sloughs and inflamed base ; the largest was about one inch long and a quarter of an inch wide, and the next largest three quarters by half an inch, and lower down still the ulcers were roundish and from a quarter to half an inch in diameter. The right labium was swollen and red, and so was the abdomen for a short distance between the ulcers, but the child seemed lively and well and not in pain until the thigh and groin ulcerated. A sister, set. 16 years, was attending at the City Road Hospital for consumption, and this child had a bad cough, but there were no physical signs in the chest. On December 1st a small pustule with red areola appeared on the left cheek exactly similar to those in the groin, which were healing. The subsequent history is unknown. The next one differs in many ways from the preceding VOL. LXX. 27