179 LESION OF SYPHILIS IN WOMKN. would also be so^ increasing up to the point when involu- tion commences, which usually corresponds with the com- mencement of healing". It has been shown that induration is absent in tbe early period of the primary sore much more frequently than it is present; that its appearance may be delayed for very variable and considerable periods even till quite late in the course of the sore, and lastly, that in a con- siderable proportion of cases it is so sligbtly developed tbat it can be detected only with the greatest diflB.culty. It remains to prove that the gradations of amount of induration or thickening which have been shown to exist in women, pass down to cases in which, it is impossible to appreciate any thickening exceeding the resistance afforded by the surrounding normal tissues. The question is so constantly being asked, ^' Can a non- indurated chancre be followed by syphilis," and answered in a general way on one side or the other, without an appeal to facts, or else left unanswered, that there is much indecision in most people's minds as to what is the truth. When the doctrine was formulated, and no doubt correctly in the main, that there were two distinct classes of sores, only one of which was followed by general syphilis, thickening and induration were held to be characteristic marks of that class, and were never met with in the other. The supporters of the doctrine taught that induration was never present in the latter class, and this has never been called in question. But they also taught that indu- ration is always present in the former and is an unfailing sign. Such hard-and-fast rules are seldom so fully borne out by facts in pathological and clinical investigations as not to be liable to exceptions; further experience has more recently tended, whilst confirming the general truth of the rule, to allow more latitude for exceptions. It seems certain that in women, where induration is in the majority of cases a less developed sign than in men, many exceptions are to be met with. Fournier, who has written especially with regard to