271 ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. more than dubious diagnosis)^ whilst the utility of atropia and digitalis as recommended by Mr. Barwell/ receives no support from recorded experience. Moreover, the un- doubted value of the iodide of potassium in some thoracic aneurisms renders it probable that abdominal aneurisms may to some degree be amenable to its influence, however exerted, and it will probably not be contested that surgical interference ought to be invoked in the treatment of all internal aneurisms only when that drug along with, abso- lute rest and restricted diet have proved futile after pro- longed trial. Such, unfortunately, was the case in this instance ; indeed I cannot but believe that had surgical measures been employed earlier, before the patient^s strength was at such, a low ebb, his life might have been materially prolonged, and its burden of pain lightened. Even at the time of the first consultation witb my surgical colleague, Mr. Morris, I was dubious as to the applicability of proximal pressure, not sanguine as to its results, and fearful of the risks of direct pressure on the sac, whilst a subsequent study of the literature of the sub- ject has convinced me of the dangers of any compression applied to the aorta above the level of the duodenum. Below that level pressure upon the intestine or other viscera may be avoided by careful application of the com- pressor. The fact that five successful cases of proximal pressure have been recorded by Murray,^ Greenhow,^ Moxon and Durham,^ Heath,^ and Philipson,^ shows tbat such treat- ment may be successful despite the occurrence of haema- temesis, albuminuria, jaundice and threatened gangrene of the lower extremities during, or as the direct results of, the operation; whilst in one case, included in five ^ * Ashhurst's Encyclopaedia of Surgery,' vol. iii, p. 476, ei seg. * ' Med.-Chir. Trans.,' vol. xlvii, p. 187. 3 Ibid , vol. Ivi, p. 385. 4 Ibid., vol. Iv, J). 213. 5 ' British Medical Journal,' 1867, vol. ii, p. 287. s Ibid., 1877, vol. ii, p. 247.