391 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. acute plitliisis, but the symptoms of alcoholic paralysis were even better marked than those referable to the lungs, and the morbid appearances at least equally so. Both fatal cases had cirrhotic and fatty livers, and the liver of the third case appears to be in the same condition. The history in each case pointed entirely in the same direction. There was nothing to favour a suspicion of syphilis, gout, lead-poisoning, or diphtheria, or of any other disease likely to give rise to a nerve-lesion ; and in all there was the marked and prolonged history of alcoholic indulgence, as well as the presence of morbid conditions other than those found in the nerves, likely to result from such a habit. I should say that the paralysis of the diaphragm and intercostal muscles, which was well marked in both the fatal cases, had much to do in determining the fact of death at the particular time it occurred. This consideration applies most strongly, however, to the second case, since in it there was no efficient and immediate cause of death found except oedema of the lungs. As to other symptoms, the muscular pains, the mental derangement, the absence of bedsores, and of paralysis of the sphincters, and the electrical reactions of the paralysed muscles, are sufficient to establish the diagnosis. Tubercular disease of the lungs has very often been associated with alcoholic paralysis, and this is an interest- ing fact, which has not yet received, so far as I am aware, any special explanation. It seems to me that here, as often elsewhere, the simplest explanation may be the true one, that both the disease of nervous system and of lungs are due to the one common cause. Abuse of alcohol is not unlikely to determine the appearance of phthisis in those who have any hereditary predisposition to the disease, as well as to lead to other insanitary conditions tending in the same direction. In connection with this point it should be mentioned that M.M. Pitres and Vaillard have lately published^ the i ' Revue de MeJeciue,' March, 1886, p. 193.