IN INFANTS AND ITS CAUSES. ^01 of tlie left leg was free from the upper third of the thigh downwards^ while they were sparsely scattered all over the right leg and thigh. The palms and soles were free. Observation showed that the lesions were produced in the following way :—A pustule about a sixteenth of an inch formed^ with red areola, enlarged to an eighth of an inch, then dried into a scab, surrounded by a ring of pus; ulce- ration proceeded laterally and vertically below the scab to a varying extent, and a slough was formed, the centre becoming quite black. When this slough was thrown off, it left a sharply-cut roundish or oval ulcer with slightly irregular margins, sometimes undermined, sometimes going abruptly down to the deepest part of the ulcer, at others sloping obliquely down towards the centre. The ulcers never spread after the separation of the slough, and they were of all depths and sizes, from a superficial excoriation to a very deep ulcer. The largest single ulcer was about three quarters of an inch in diameter, and about a third of an inch at its deepest part, but there were some com- pound ones larger than this. Wet boracic lint was ordered for the buttocks, but as the patient did not seem comfortable with this, iodoform wool was applied, and iodo-vaseline for the rest of the body. The wool, however, adhered too closely, and gave so much pain on removal that iodoform powder at first, and after- wards iodol sprinkled on were substituted. A few fresh pustules appeared at intervals and ran the course already described. On August 9th there was diarrhoea ; a few fresh lesions had formed, but most of the sloughs had separated, and on the 11th it was noted that while the ulcers on the buttocks were deeper, there were no fresh lesions. The diarrhoea continued until death on August 19th, there having been no fresh lesions since the 11th. The temperature chart ranged from 99° to 104°. I was away for the vacation during the last ten days of life, and the post-mortem was made fifteen hours after death by Mr. Campbell Williams in Dr. Barlow's presence. Post-mortem.—Body much emaciated, rigor mortis pre- VOL. LXX. 26