CHKONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 429 generally mucli improved. There could I think be but little doubt that the improvement was consequent on the increased dose of opium. He was now able to swallow more food, and was feeling stronger. After this the dose of opium was still further increased, with the result that the recovery was in the course of a few months complete. Mr. S— is I believe at the present date, that is, one year after the treatment, in good health and his mouth quite sound. With this case it will be convenient, I think, to conclude this group. I have, however, seen one other case in the person of a gentleman under the care of Mr. Charles Macnamara, who was kind enough to send him. for my inspection. In him a very sore mouth had been coinci- dent with an eruption on the skin, and with steady failure of health, and I believe that death followed a few weeks after I saw the patient. In this case the patient had lost his health after his return from India; he suffered from diarrhoea for some time. Opium was tried during the last few weeks, but I do not know to what extent it was pushed. The soreness of the mouth, lasting for weeks, and the peculiar eruption, were the marked features of the case, and it was on account of these symptoms that the patient was referred to me. If I may count Mr. Macnamara's case as one of the same group—and there seems no reason for omitting it— we have six examples of the same combination of symptoms, in three of which death occurred. In two the patient is known to have recovered under the opium treatment, and to have remained without any definite relapse up to the present time. All the six patients were men, and none of them under forty-five years of age. All had been in good health until the first symptom of sore mouth occurred. In all the three fatal cases the inflammation of the skin was extensive and severe, whilst in the three which recovered it was but slight, in two, indeed, being almost absent. In one of these three, although the eruption was but very limited in