ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE FAUCES. 97 liim to cough, but it was noticed that he drank slowly and with great caution. His chest was pigeon-breasted, and his ribs beaded ; there was no dulness ; there was a fair entry of air all over, and no adventitious sounds were heard. The abdomen was big, not very tense, tympanitic everywhere, more resistant on the right than the left side ; no fluctuation ; the spleen could not be felt. Limbs some- what rickety. The after-progress of the case may be briefly reported. He got steadily weaker, there was marked but irregular fever, some sharp moist rales became audible in his chest, and he had diarrhoea. A few days before his death it was noticed that there was superficial ulceration of the soft palate on the left side close to the base of the uvula, and this ulceration spread and became deeper, the edges of the ulcerated area presenting a ragged appearance. The condition was recognised as being probably of a tubercular nature. Death occurred on September 9th. At the post-mortem examination there was found a superficial ulceration of the soft palate, extending along its free margin on both sides of the uvula, the edges of the ulcerated portion being irregular. The pharyngeal aspect of the soft palate and the posterior wall of the pharynx presented a superficial honeycomb appearance, formed by numerous small, irregularly-shaped bosses of substance of the mucous membrane alone. There was some doubt as to whether there was any thickening of the soft palate where it was not ulcerated ; the epiglottis was thickened, the larynx healthy. General tuberculosis of both lungs was found, the signs during life having no doubt been in some degree masked by the rather unusual amount of emphysema which was present. There was extensive ulceration of the small intestines, ulcers being also found in the ascending colon, the sigmoid flexure, and even in the rectum. The mesen- teric glands were enlarged and caseous. The liver and spleen contained caseous nodules. A large caseous mass was found in the left lobe of the cerebellum, and some VOL. LXX. 7