341 UPPER END OP THE RECTUM. from intussusception of the rectum due to adenoid epithe- lioma. Quite recently Kulenkampff has described a similar case in the ' Centralblatt fiir Chirurgie/ 1886, No. 47, and my own case makes the eleventh. In six of these the sigmoid flexure, or upper part of the rectum, was the seat of the disease, in the other cases the latter was found in or near the caecum. Of the six rectal intussusceptions, four were removed through the anus, the two remaining being left untouched. Yerneuil appears to have been the first to attempt this. In his first case it was accomplished with the ecraseur, but the peritoneal cavity was opened in the operation, and the patient died in a couple of days. In his second case he first performed linear rectotomy to reach the mass, then placed Dupuytren^s enterotome above the growth to pro- voke adhesion, and, at the end of a few days, further secured the walls of the bowel with six sutures before cutting away the intussusception. The patient died two days later of peritonitis, the result of faecal extravasation, in spite of the stitches. Kulenkampff drew down the tumour in his case, and cut it away, stitching apparently as he went. At the last cut he was aware that he had wounded a knuckle of bowel adherent to the peritoneal surface of the rectum. This, however, he sutured at once through the wound in the rectum. When the latter had been stitched, the stump was only replaced within the anus. The patient recovered from the operation, but with complete obstruction of the bowels, so that on the tenth day the colon was opened in the left groin, and an arti- ficial anus was formed. Later, the rectum became pervious, and the artificial opening appears to have closed, the patient making a good recovery. In my own operation the large number of stitches used at short intervals prevented any gaping of the peritoneal wound, and thus saved the peri- toneum from the contamination which took place in VerneuiFs second case. I suppose that in all cases operated on in this way there will be always a risk of opening an adherent loop of small intestine, but by careful