ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. 390 same author also published further observations in an article on the general subject of Toxic Paralyses^, in which he repeated his previous conclusions that Alcoholic Para- lysis is a disease of peripheral origin, having definite sym- ptoms, course, and pathology. Since this direction has been given to pathological investigation many cases have been recorded both in this country and abroad,^ and there has been a general agree- ment that inflammatory or degenerative changes have always been present in some part of the peripheral nervous system. The view that the essence of the disease is an inflammation has found expression in the name multiple neuritis but it has been suggested that the morbid condition found in the nerves is rather a degeneration similar to what takes place in the peripheral part of a nerve after division, and that the term neuritis " is a misnomer. With reference to this, I think it may be said that my fatal cases, especially the first, would seem to favour the former view. The masses of leucocytes seen in the perineurium, as well as the numbers of similar cells scattered through the endoneurium, together with the appearance of the walls of the vessels, induce the conclusion that there at least the lesion is of the nature of an inflammation. May it not be, as suggested by Dr. Eoss, of Manchester, in a paper recently published,^ that different pathological conditions may exist at different levels of a diseased nerve, the degeneration being found below the point at which a perineuritis has been esta- blished ? It seems to me a priori reasonable to expect changes of an inflammatory nature as the result of pro- longed alcoholic excess, and I should look upon the con- dition as comparable to what is found in the liver in cirrhosis. Regarding the diagnosis of my three cases, I think there can be no doubt. The first case certainly died of 1 ' Gazette des Hopitaux/ No. 46, April 21st, 1883. 2 See Appendix. 2 * British Medical Journal,' January 1st, 1887.