PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. 20 Royes Bell was never a strong man. He appeared to many, who knew him but slightly, what may be denomi- nated as prematurely old/' and although very energetic in the performance of duty he felt much the effects of work. He had gone to Folkestone for change in the month of June. On the morning of the 14th of that month he was seized with complete paralysis of one side, and became in- sensible. So sudden and severe was the attack of cerebral haemorrhage that he did not recover consciousness. He expired the following day, as related, in the forty-fourth year of his age. Hutchinson Royes Bell came of a worthy family, which had long been established near Leaconfield, in the East Riding of Yorkshire, and who formerly possessed a consider- able estate in that neighbourhood. He retained himself a small freehold property in that county. He is said to have been grave in manner and of a very modest and retiring disposition—so much so, that in his intercourse with strangers, or those not intimate with him, he failed to do himself justice; but by those who knew him intimately he was much appreciated as a most agreeable companion, and as one on whose judgment they could rely whenever it became necessary or desirable to solicit his opinion or advice.^ JDr. Walter Moxon died on the 21st of July, 1886, having but just completed his fiftieth year. His death was sudden, and not only its suddenness, but its coming at a com- paratively early period of life, threw a sad gloom over those with whom he was associated at Guy's Hospital, as well as those by whom he was beloved and all who knew him well. His father was in the Civil Service of the Government, and became Chief Accountant of Inland Revenue. In the course of his duties he had to serve some time in Ireland, and it was during this time that Walter Moxon was born. This was on the 27th June, 1836, at Middleton, in the County of Cork. He entered as a student 1 Letter from Mr. Henry Smith and ' British Medical Journal,' June 26th, 1886.