PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. 8 old friends Dr. Habershon and Dr. Wilks, but lie daily became worse and died the following Tuesday, within a week of his return home, in the sixty-third year of his age. Dr. Frederic Weher was born at Trieste in 1808. He died in the seventy-eighth year of his age, on the 10th of March, 1886. He was a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of London, had served on the Council, and also occupied the office of Vice-President in 1865. At the age of eighteen Frederic Weber went from Trieste to Heidelberg University, and from thence to Pavia, where he obtained his Doctor of Medicine degree in 1836. He sub- sequently travelled for two years to attend the hospitals of Parma,Leipzig, Berlin,and Paris, and lastly came to London. To the latter place he came for the first time in 1838, in- tending eventually to settle in his native town. But this was not to be. The late Sir Thomas Watson, Robert Ferguson, and other physicians already in good practice in London, were greatly taken by his charm of manner and excellent qualities, and persuaded him to remain here to practise. He had made an especial study of the properties of the mineral waters and baths of Europe, while he had secured the friendship of a large number of medical men at the different watering places which he had visited in his travels on the Continent. In addition to all this good foundation for a successful start in practice, he had made many friends— attracted by his courteous manners and medical acumen— and consequently commenced practice in London with many professional advantages. Dr. Weber worked for some time at the Middlesex Hos- pital, and was connected for many years as Physician with the St. George's and St. James's Dispensary in King Street. He took great interest in, and devoted much time to, the Harley Street Institute for Invalid Ladies, and was attached to it from its first establishment until within a few years of his death, a period of forty-six years' service. He also held at different times the appointment of Physician to several Foreign Embassies.