49 OVARIOTOMY. it is the one in common use for describing these cases, but I do it under protest, and with the full belief that it means peritoneal sarcoma. The question naturally arises, can nothing be done to lessen this terrible after mortality from malignant disease ? I reply, much can be done when the profession is made thoroughly alive to the dangers of tapping ovarian and parovarian or broad ligament cysts. As long as this pernicious and unscientific practice receives encouragement from authority, and in high places, so long will the most brilliant successes of the ovariotomist be clouded by this sad subsequent death-roll. Tapping is directly responsible for most of the recur- rences, and not infrequently the tapping puncture is one of the earliest seats of the new disease, while the ovariotomy scar remains healthy. The reason is not far to seek. It is impossible for anyone, however skilful, to tap without some escape of the small infective cells into the peritoneum, or among the tissues of the tapping puncture. On the other hand, an operator of average skill can, in the great majority of cases, remove an ovarian tumour without any fouling of peritoneum or wound, and if any small escape does take place it is at once sponged away, while after tapping it remains absolutely undisturbed. Another fruitful cause of infection is the rupture of cysts into the peritoneum. This accident may arise in many different ways. Papilloma will grow through the cyst wall and cause an opening. Vessels may block from inflammation, and the starved part of the cyst wall will then give way ; direct violence may cause a split in the cyst wall; twisting of the pedicle may cause extreme disten- sion and rupture, &c.; but in whatever way the accident happens it is a serious disaster for the patient, for from that moment we cannot say, however successful may be a subsequent ovariotomy, that she will remain free from recurrent disease. The only way to render these accidents less common is to make early ovariotomy the rule. VOL. LXX. 4