90 EARLY UlSSEMINATED MYELITIS. The white substance was very pale but showed no other naked-eye change. On microscopic examination the blood- vessels were found remarkably dilated, filled with blood- corpuscles, and invested with sheaths of granular corpus- cles. There was extensive infiltration of these gn-anular corpuscles, especially in the grey matter, which through- out was prominently and often exclusively affected. In the irregular walls of the hollowed-out regions there was a great heaping-up of granular cells. No hsematoidin crystals were to be seen, and th© dark brown colour in the softened regions was found to depend on the enormously distended vessels sheathed with gran- ular cells. The ganglion-cells were natural. It will be observed how very remarkable is the resem- blance in many respects, both clinical and pathological, between the above case and the one under discussion—the differences being rather of degree than of kind, and cor- responding with the more acute and rapid course and the more extensive involvement of the nerve-centres in my case as compared with Westphal's. There is a second case, recorded by Westphal_, of paraplegia commencing about three days after the beginning of the rash of small- pox and in which, post mortem, myelitis vfas found espe- cially affecting the lateral columns, but as this case diverges considerably, both clinically and anatomically, from the one under discussion it need not further be considered. I think enough has been said to justify the view that the myelitis in my case was not a mere asphyxial effect but an integral part of the acute specific disease from which the patient suffered. Whether it was produced by micro- organisms which we assume to be concerned in the other phenomena of measles I will not presume to say, but, at all events, its evolution was very nearly parallel with the skin and respiratory mucous membrane affections of the disease. There only remains for me to ask the question (which has been partly broached by others) whether cases like