36 EXTRA-UTERINE GESTATION. and her general health good. The history of her present illness was as follows. She ceased to menstruate on the 9th of May and soon after considered herself pregnant^ and her pregnancy proceeded without incident, except that she thought she was larger than at corresponding periods in former pregnancies, until the beginning of July, when she had an attack of what she was told was ^' inflammation in the right lower abdomen, and since then she had never been free from pain. In the first week in September, after an unusually severe attack of pain in the right iliac region, she suddenly passed jper vaginam more than a pint of what she described as a thick greenish fluid, and for a fortnight subsequently she was much more comfortable. Then the pain again became severe, and was shortly followed by a fresh discharge of a similar nature, but more offensive in character; and this sequence of events, viz. pain followed by discharge, recurred from time to time up to her admission. On one occasion there came away in the dis- charge what she thought was a piece of ^^skin,^' but her nurse told her it was a piece of afterbirth. There had been no uterine haemorrhage at any time, but on two or three occasions a discharge which resembled coffee- grounds. The enlargement of the abdomen, which had progressively increased until the first appearance of the discharge in September, had since then steadily diminished. On her admission she was somewhat emaciated and very weak. Pulse 114, temp. 100*4°. In the hypogastric region, and extending towards the right of the median line, was an ill-defiued swelling, tender on pressure. On examination per vaginam the lower segment of the uterus appeared expanded and fixed; the external os was patulous, and admitted the finger as far as the inner os, which was tightly closed. The sound, however, passed easily, and apparently in the normal axis to a distance of about three inches. Bimanual examination was difficult both on account of the condition of the vagina, to be described, and the fixation of the pelvic contents, and added but little to the informa- tion gained by abdomiual palpation. There was a large