SACCULATED AORTIC ANEURISM. 284 The heart, aorta, sternum, and tumour were then removed in one piece and set aside for further examina- tion. The heart was displaced downwards and outwards, and was covered with a thick layer of subpericardial fat. The left ventricle was considerably dilated and its walls moderately thickened. The aortic orifice was enlarged; the three cusps of the valve were healthy. Immediately above its origin the ascending aorta was enlarged into an irregularly globular dilatation, the size of a large orange, and the interior of this part was very irregular from athe- roma. The transverse part of the arch, as far as the origin of the left subclavian artery, was slightly dilated ; beyond that point the thoracic aorta was of its normal calibre. Springing from the upper part of the tubular aneurism above mentioned, on its anterior and outer aspect, was an ovoid sacculated aneurism of about the size of a cocoa-nut. Rather more than half of the sac was contained within the chest, and was firmly adherent to the sternum, right ribs, and rib cartilages and the right lung. It projected through the chest wall at the level of the third right rib, the cartilage and a part of the rib having been destroyed in the process. The outer portion of the aneurism formed a tumour adherent to the second and fourth ribs. The intra-thoracic portion of the aneurism had a thin but well-marked sac. The extra-thoracic portion was destitute of any definable sac, and the tissues limiting the cavity were composed of soft, shreddy, muscular tissue abundantly infiltrated with blood and serum. The aneurism contained a confused mass of steel wire, in the meshes of, and partly surrounding which, was a con- siderable quantity of firm, red, fibrinous clot. One loop of the wire projected just through the mouth of the aneurism into the dilated aorta. The entire mass of wire and clot formed an extremely firm mass ; it was nowhere adherent to the sac. The mouth of the sacculated portion of the aneurism was very large, easily admitting four fingers.