CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 427 My next case is almost an exact repetition of tlie one just given, and it is scarcely worth while to repeat the details. A healthy clergyman, aged 46, became the sub- ject of a sore mouth, which at first nothing would cure. The sores began on his tongue, but spread to his gums, pouches of the cheeks, and the lining of the lips. The prolabia were but little inflamed. Before Mr. E— came under my care he had had the advice both of Sir William Jenner and of Sir James Paget, and had tried internally both arsenic and iodide of potassium. He had left the country and come to reside in London, but neither the change of residence nor any drugs which had been used had effected anything for his advantage. He had lost flesh and strength and become very anxious. It was four months after the beginning of his complaint that I first saw him. There was then much foetor from his mouth, and numerous ulcers, with dusky, liver-coloured edges. On some of the ulcers there was a distinct tendency to the production of a grey pellicle. In this case there was no skin disease, with the exception of a lichenoid eczema on the left side of the abdomen, to which he had been liable for some years. I cannot claim any share in the cure of this patient. He was disappointed with the result of a single application of caustic to the sores, and fortunately for himself left me, and consulted Mr. Pollock, who at once put him under the influence of opium and with the very pleasing result that a cure quickly followed. So far as I know the cure has been permanent. Mr. Pollock has mentioned this case in a paper, " On the Use of Opium as an aid to Surgery,'^ ^ British Medical Journal,' 1884, vol. i, p. 801. The last case which I have to relate is one which has been exceedingly well characterised, so far as the mouth is concerned, but has been unattended by any inflamma- tion of the skin, the extremities, or, in fact, of any part excepting by extension from the mouth. Although for a considerable time the disease appeared to resist all treat- ment and to be likely to end fatally^ a most satisfactory