312 writers' cramp and impaired writing power. readiness to respond to equal electric currents, but their mode of contraction Las often been obviously different to tbe eye ; the muscle, which is presumably healthy, con- tracting forcibly and moving its point of insertion vigor- ously, while the muscle which shows deficiency of irrita- bility contracts in a hesitating, jerky, and unsatisfactory manner. The feeling of contraction (under electric stimulation) is often very different on the two sides, at least this is what patients say ; but the fact has not been systematically recorded because of the great difficulty of making a satis- factory record of such a fact. For the same reason the record of cutaneous sensibility has not been systematically made although, to judge from expressions used by patients, change has frequently been present. What is the pathological significance of nerve-tender- ness ? It is recorded fifty times in the present series of 93 cases, viz. forty-five times in the neuro-muscular group, five times in the paralytic group, and not at all in the degenerative group. The conditions under which nerve- tenderness occurs are very varied. It is oftenest and best observed in neuralgia of the fifth nerve. Whether the neuralgia be definitely due to central change or peripheral irritation or constitutional cause we often find every accessible branch of the nerve more or less tender on pressure, and the tenderness, marked dur- ing a paroxysm, is absent or scarcely noticeable in the intervals between the attacks. In paralysis of the facial from exposure to cold, we usually find the trunk of this purely motor nerve more or less tender at its point of emergence from the stylo-mastoid foramen. In sciatica^' every accessible branch of the nerve is often tender, and even when the sciatica is due to intra- peivic irritation we find tenderness of the ultimate branches, notwithstanding that the source of trouble may be nearly a yard distant from some of the tender twigs.