MULTIPLE EMBOLISM OP ARTERIES. 132 mation has progressed to softening and ulceration of the vessel, and in those arteries which had been most recently- plugged, as evidenced both by the clinical symptoms and by the post-mortem examination, the ulceration was in progress at the time of death. In the arteries of the arm and leg, on the other hand, the ulceration had caused complete perforation of the vessel, and, the blood escaping into the surrounding tissues, a sac had been formed by their condensation and by the clotting of the extravasated blood. In the left external iliac artery, however, the wall had merely been softened and had become the seat of an aneurismal dilatation. In the brain one artery at least had ulcerated at the seat of the embolism, and its condition was such as to render it prob- able that, had the patient survived, complete penetration would have followed. In the right common iliac the arterial wall was both ulcerated and dilated. We believe that in the case we have described it is proved that embolism may cause aneurism, and that the disease and subsequent dilatation of the vessel occur at the seat of the lodgment of the embolus and not above it. The next point for consideration is the reason why, in the vast majority of cases, embolism should not cause aneurism, or rather, why it should only exceptionally do so ? It may be argued that the causation of aneurism is purely fortuitous, and that in any given number of cases of embolism a certain percentage will result in the deve- lopment of aneurism, just as in the case of ligature of vessels in their continuity, aneurism has resulted in a few instances. We believe this reasoning to be defective, and first we would point out that although aneurism has occasionally occurred after ligature of an artery in its continuity or in a stump, there is no evidence to show that the aneurism has been produced by the mechanical dilatation of a healthy vessel above the seat of the constriction. It is probable that the aneurisms that have followed ligature^