220 GOUTY PAROTITIS AND GOUTY ORCHITIS. patient. Under the impression that I had to deal with a new case of parotid gout I did not hesitate, in order to relieve the excruciating pain, to prescribe fifty drops thrice daily of a tincture of the fresh flowers of colchicum together with sulphate of quinine. The patient was promptly relieved by this treatment, and was enabled to return to Paris, and to business forty eight hours after- wards. In accordance with the axiom naturam morhorum curationes ostendunt, we must admit that this was a genuine case of parotid gout. I will deal more briefly with the subject of gouty orchitis, the existence of which has often been pointed out by English authorities, by Hunter and Sir James Paget among others. In January, 1885, several cases were de- scribed by Dr. Guyot and Dr. Millard at a meeting of the Medical Society of the Hospitals of Paris, and gave rise to a discussion. Lastly, in February, 1886, a thesis on the manifestations of gout in the genital organs was read by Dr. Legalchez before the Faculty of Paris. For my own part I have only met with two cases of gout in the testicles. The first case, that of a man get. 62, has already been reported on to the Academy of Medicine of Paris in May last; the second, under my own care in March, 1885, has not yet been published. Both are cases of orchitis not accompanied by any urethral discharge, occurring in con- firmed gouty patients, and followed by well-marked attacks of articular gout. Although the absence of any urethral discharge was carefully ascertained, it has excited doubt in the minds of certain medical men who have not had to do with cases of genuine gouty orchitis. I can only refer them to the observations published by Dr. Latil of Aix^. The patient suffered from orchitis ending in an attack of gout in the big toe, twenty-six days after a fracture which obliged him to keep his bed with a surgical apparatus on, thus excluding any suspicion of urethral contagion. My own patient was a man aet. 35, whose father and > ' Bull, et Mems. de la Soc. Med. des Hop. des Paris,' 1885, p. 36.