258 SUPPRESSION OF URINE. pelvis, and forwards almost to the mid-line of the abdomen. Between this sac, near its pedicle and the abdominal wall there were some recent adhesions. The sac was completely empty ; its interior was shreddy, and dark in colour from blood staining. No direct communication between it and the pelvis of the kidney could be found. It is thus not easy to explain how the urine found its way into the sac. The wall of the sac appeared to be quite independent of the normal capsule, for this latter, though somewhat thickened, peeled off with ease; the sac wall was about a quarter of an inch in thickness, fibroid in appearance, well organised, and therefore of some standing. The kidney was about twice its normal size, pale and mottled in appearance, with some small cysts on its sur- face. When cut into it was found to be undergoing cystic degeneration ; the calyces were much dilated and thick- ened ; in one of these a calculus, as large as a broad bean, was found. The pelvis of this kidney was also dilated, and the ureter as low down as the brim of the pelvis was thickened and dilated so as to readily admit the little finger. At the level of the brim of the pelvis a small calculus was found in it ; beyond this point the ureter was of normal size. The left kidney was degenerated into mere sacculations, several of which contained small calculi. One of these sacculations contained a calculus similar to, but rather smaller than, that found in the right kidney. The ureter was slightly larger than normal. The bladder was healthy. As far as could be seen, the other viscera appeared quite normal, but we were not allowed to remove them. Remarks.— (1) Diagnosis.—When the boy first came under observation, a diagnosis was made of rather severe bruising of the right kidney, with consequent hsematuria. When he came under observation for the second time, with the additional history that was elicited of his condition pre- vious to the accident, and with more or less continuous symptoms of localised pain, vomiting, and intermittent haGmaturia since his discharge from the hospital, a diagnosis