ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 273 aneurism ; in a case under Sir James Paget in St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital in 1865, the facts of which have been kindly communicated to me by Mr. Astley Bloxam, then house surgeon, the results of the compression comprised peritonitis, gangrene of the gut and the reduction of the pancreas to a pulp ; whilst in an unrecorded case under the care of Mr. Barwell, to whose courtesy I am indebted for permission to cite it, distal compression was applied continuously for six days without either temporary or permanent benefit. Not only does the treatment by distal pressure appear to me to be fraught with danger from pressure upon the abdominal contents involving, it may be, their obstruction, laceration, rupture, inflammation or gangrene, but also to be theoretically faulty, as the branches arising from the upper portion of the abdominal aorta are too numerous and too large to afford any reasonable prospect of sufficient arrest of the circulation above the point of compression to determine coagulation. Another danger, common to all measures of pressure, whether proximal or distal, less obvious than the above, but probably none the less real, lies in the increased ten- sion in the aorta and its branches above the seat of pres- sure and the consequent risk of rupture of diseased vessels. This increase of tension, transitory though it may be, has been graphically represented in Dr. Mahomed''s tracings from the radial pulse in the paper by Dr. Moxon and Mr. Durham.^ Without specially investigating the point, I have incidentally come across a narrative of three instances, and have myself seen one instance of coexistent thoracic aneurism, whilst in four others a second, unsus- pected abdominal aneurism was found to exist on post- mortem examination. The results of galvano-puncture in the treatment of internal aneurism, in this country at all events, have been admittedly disappointing. As far as I have been able to ascertain, it has been employed in only two cases similar to the present. The more successful of these is reported 1 Loc. cit. VOL. LXX. 18