428 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. cure has at length resulted under opium. The subject of this case is a farmer from near Rugby, named S—, about 66 years of age. He had always been a remarkably strong, healthy man, until his sore mouth set in. He was sent to me by Dr. Clement Dukes, of Rugby, in the beginning of December, 1885. He had at that time suffered from sore mouth for about six weeks, and it had resisted various methods of treatment, which had been perseveringly used. The inflammation involved both lips, the pouches of his cheeks, his tongue, and his palate. There was swelling, congestion, and large excoriated patches in various places. He was rapidly losing flesh, and could swallow only fluid food. There was no disease of the skin in any part, and his nails were quite sound. His breath was foetid from the secretion from the ulcers. He had lost many teeth, and those which remained were covered with greenish, glutinous secretion, as his mouth was too painful to allow of his using a toothbrush. There was no material ptyalism, and his teeth were all quite firmly fixed. I began the treatment by prescribing quinine in two-grain doses, with three minims of Battey's solution of opium. A fortnight later the dose of the latter was increased to five minims, and at the same time he was made to wash his mouth very freely indeed with weak Condy's Fluid. On January 29th, after six weeks' treatment, he was not much better, excepting that his palate was less inflamed. His lips and tongue were still much swollen and raw. From his lower lip the inflammation had extended upon the skin to the chin, and the whole of this region was much swollen, raw, and granular. He re- ported that he took plenty of fluid food, but he slept badly, and felt very weak. He had got so much thinner that all his relatives thought he was going to die. The opium had caused him much constipation, but at this date I increased it to eight minims, giving at the same time aperients. A fortnight later I had the pleasure of finding his tougue almost well, and his lips and mouth