347 PORTIONS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. probably flatten down in time, but I am not aware of any observations which, prove this. Certainly in themselves these sutures have nothing likely to secure such a result. Therefore the case stands thus : the continuous sutures have disadvantages where the interrupted have advan- tages, the interrupted drawbacks, which the continuous avoid ; neither of them have any after effect upon the valvular ring, nor do I see how they can have. If then a suture were devised, which, whilst interrupted so that each stitch were perfectly independent, should yet obtain all the advantages which a continuous has to offer, in that it accurately approximated every point of the two surfaces to be united, and permitted no space to remain un- guarded until firm organic union had taken place, would it not be allowed that a distinct advance had been made to- wards a perfect suture for this purpose ? And if, when this was done, it could be shown that the disposition of the suture resulted in that as it came away it carried with it the whole of the valvular ringleft behind at the time of operation, surely it would be admitted that this method most thoroughly fulfils all the requirements of the ideal suture described above. Permit me very shortly to describe its method of appli- cation. The two divided ends of intestine being brought together so that their mesenteric borders lie in an exact plane, a fine round needle, No. 11, armed with a long double silk thread, is passed from the mucous surface of one, through the entire walls of both, to the mucous surface of the other. The needle, and with it the double thread, is drawn through until about five inches of the thread are left on the side from which it has been passed. The needle is then again passed in the reverse direction, at a distance of 2 to 3 mm. from the first puncture, and the threads drawn through until a double loop is left, having also a length of five inches. (Fig. 1.) One of the loops is cut through, the other is drawn up, and knotted with a reef-knot on the side started from. When