MULTIPLE EMBOLISM OF ARTERIES. 128 Remarhs.—In studying this case the state of the heart and aorta is the first consideration. It is evident that_, in spite of the absence of any marked symptoms of septic infection, ulcerative endocarditis was in progress immediately before death. It is further evident that the aortic valves had been long previously diseased, for the calcareous masses, at least, must have been of some years' standing, and it must therefore be concluded that the recent destructive inflammation attacked, as it so frequently does, valves which had been formerly damaged. It seems to us probable that the emboli were due to ulceration and destruction of the valvular attachments of the vegetations, which, together with the calcareous masses adherent to them, were thus cast loose into the blood stream, and, looking at the large calcareous concretions yet left on the two aortic valves which are least destroyed, and the very extensive destruction of the remaining valve, it is likely that the large calcareous mass in the right com- mon iliac was derived from the latter valve. The condition of the aorta already described is evidently due to an extension to it of the inflammatory process which attacked the valves ; and it is to the softening of the walls caused by inflammation that we attribute the aneurismal pouches we have mentioned. Aneurisms such as these, in connection with aortic valvulitis, have previously been de- scribed, and a very good specimen is in the museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital.^ The ulcer on the aorta, which had nearly penetrated the vessel, we attribute also to the same cause. It is evident that the process by which the valves themselves were destroyed might, by extension to the aorta, cause the formation of an ulcer in its walls. It is worthy of remark that this ulcer is beyond the reach of direct mechanical irritation by the diseased valves, or by the calcareous masses attached to them. There can be no reasonable doubt that the calcareous embolus in the right common iliac artery was derived V No. 1430 a. .