259 SDPPEESSION OF URINE. was less easy. Moreover^ his symptoms had been greatly aggravated for five days previous to readmission^and besides thiS; a soft fluctuating swelling had developed in the region of the injury. On the whole, the diagnosis became injury to the kidney with subsequent development of hydronephrosis. But the comparatively late onset (up- wards of three months after the accident) of the adven- titious sac pointed, I thought, to some further condition, and this was suspected to be a calculus, which had been displaced at the time of the accident, and was now inter- fering with the outflow of urine from the pelvis of the kidney, possibly in consequence of inflammation set up around its new site. This view was thought to be strength- ened by the continued presence of blood in the urine. (2) Symptoms.—An examination of the amounts of urine passed in periods of twenty-four hours is interesting : In the first period of 24 hours, 56 oz., blood stained. In the second ,, 56 oz., „ „ In the third ,, 40 oz., less ,, In the fourth 43 oz., again clearer. In the fifth 34 oz., „ „ An average of 45| oz. per diem. During the next two periods the amount fell to five ounces and ten ounces respectively, while in the next two periods the amount rose to eighteen ounces and twenty ounces respectively, an average of only thirteen and a quarter ounces per diem. In the next period of twenty-four hours, only one ounce of urine was passed, but it was not until two days later that I recognised that suppression of urine had come on. The nephrotic sac had refilled each time after tapping so rapidly that I concluded all urine from the one kidney passed into it, and that the small quantity voided _per urethram represented the froduct of the other kidney, and I further thought it not impossible that owing to pressure on its ureter or pelvis, the outflow was inter- fered with, for at this time there was nothing to lead me to suspect disease of the left kidney. On May 9th, how- ever, I found unmistakable symptoms of ursemia,—somno-