244 OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER FY A CALCULUS. off. In tlie early morning of Monday the 21st he passed 14 oz. of urine, thick and turbid with much tena- cious pus, overloaded with albumen (four fifths), but with a very small amount of urea (0*8 per cent.). This, no doubt, came from the right kidney as will be afterwards seen. In the evening of this day he passed 6^ oz. more, showing a smaller amount of albumen (one fourth) and a larger proportion of urea (1 per cent.) ; a few casts were seen. The ursemic symptoms naturally diminished, but the general condition became worse. Hiccough set in, and the vomiting, which had been very troublesome for some days, preventing all attempts at feeding by the mouth, now became incessant. He lived till the 26th (five days), passing each day about 30 oz. of urine, which became nearly clear, containing but little pus and a few casts. The percentage of urea steadily increased, reaching 1*85 per cent, on the 25th, and the albumen remained small in amount (usually about one tenth) but he did not rally at all and died exhausted by the constant hiccough and vomiting. At the post-mortem we found the right kidney dilated and nodular, of a large size and quite soft, so that it was easy to understand how it happened that it was impossible to feel it during life, and to detect it when the peri» nephritic abscess was opened, for even at the post-mortem examination it felt like a piece of intestine. Some kidney substance remained, and the pelvis, which was converted into a large branched cavity contained a large quantity of pus, and the mucous membrane was thickened from old inflammation. The ureter was much distended throughout and halfway down it was obstructed by a stone 1*25 inches long and '5 inch in diameter, which had evidently occupied this position for a long time ; but it is remarkable that the distension, though not so great, is very palpable below the obstruction. This is not now very apparent owing to the effect of the spirit upon the preparation. The left kidney was large and congested; but to the naked eye it showed but little sign of disease, and the