president's address. 15 in practice, not apparently on a matter of health, but rather one of pleasure, and change after his hospital life. On his return he published a guide for the use of those who wished to seek a more genial climate in winter than England can offer. Subsequently he travelled for a short time on the Continent, and then settled in London. He continued to be connected with the Institution in Charlotte Street, already referred to, until elected Ophthal- mic Surgeon to St. Mary's Hospital in 1851, when the duties of this appointment, and his increasing private work, obliged him to sever his connection with that which might be justly called the offspring of his own influence and exer- tions. In 1859 White Cooper was gazetted Surgeon Oculist to the Queen, an appointment which was due entirely to the high professional estimate in which he was held by the late Sir James Clark and Sir Benjamin Brodie. This appoint- ment only terminated with his death. As an ophthalmic surgeon he always appeared careful and discriminating in the examination of cases; judicious in treatment, and most kind and attentive to all under his care. As an operator he was skilful and neat, and simple in his management of cases after operation. He resigned his appointment to St. Mary's Hospital in 1862, and was then appointed Consulting Ophthalmic Surgeon to that charity. White Cooper published in 1847 his ^ Practical Remarks on Near Sight, Aged Sight, and Impaired Vision.' He also published a short account of " Conical Cornea," a work on ' Wounds and Injuries of the Eye,' and was also author of the article "Vision" in the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology.' In May of last year, after a slight chill, he was attacked by acute inflammation of the lungs, which, notwithstanding the attention of Sir William Jenner and Dr. Wilson Fox, proved fatal in the course of four days. After many years of professional attendance on the Queen, Her Majesty intimated to Mr. White Cooper her intention of conferring upon him the honour of knighthood. He was naturally