362 THE RELATION OP A CERTAIN FORM OF The only results that require notice with regard to my previous analyses are (1) That the uric acid seemed to bear a smaller proportion to the urea on the days when there was partial or slight headache (and see also the proportion 1 to 89 and 1 to 40 on the 25th and 26th of December respectively), and (2) that the average excretion of uric acid, was for a long period about 12 gr. per day. With regard to the accuracy of the processes used, I would draw special attention to the results of the three analyses of the 26th of December, where it will be seen that the total of the tAvo part analyses is in the case of the uric acid almost exactly the same as the result of the separate analysis of the whole, and in the case of the urea there is only a variation of 10 gr. in a total of over 500 gr. On reference to the table then it will be seen that on the 26th of December, during a period of headache lasting eight hours fifty minutes, 5*7 gr. of uric acid were passed, this being at the rate of '6 h gr. per hour (and I have said above that the average is about 12 gr. per day, or •5 gr. per hour), and further on the same day during fifteen hours ten minutes free from headache 6*9 gr. were passed or '46 gr. per hour {i. e. below the average) ; on the other hand, the urea varied but little, being for the first period about 22 gr. per hour, and for the second about 21 gr. per hour ; the uric acid variation was little short of 5, while the urea varied less than ; but I shall come back again to this relation of uric acid to urea. On the 2nd of January we fiud precisely the same relation, only here the headache lasted the whole twenty four hours, and we have the large uric acid excretion of 16*1 gr. or •67 gr. per hour, against a total excretion on the previous day, when there was only about one and a half hours of headache, of 10*4 gr., while the urea only varied from 362 gr. on the 1st to 368 gr. on the 2nd; the uric acid was here increased by more than 5, while the urea only increased g^. Then I purposely divided the urine of the 2nd of January into two parts corresponding as nearly