CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 423 my colleague Dr. Ramskill, to whom lie had been recom- mended by Dr. George Jones^ of Framlingliam. Dr. Jones had taken great interest in the case^ and was kind enough after the man^s death to supply me with notes. My narrative of his condition whilst in the London Hospital, and of the autopsy, will be taken from the notes kept by Mr. Hingston, who was at that time my dresser, and a very able and diligent student. Briefly I may summarise this case by stating that the man was a master currier oE fifty- eight years of age, that he began to be ill at Christmas, 1879, and died in the beginning of May, 1880. His ill- ness commenced with sore mouth which was quickly fol- lowed by swollen hands and feet ^' like chilblains.^' Later on a vesicular eruption occurred on his hand, with inflam- mation of the nails, and he had spontaneous ptyalism with sore throat and sore lips. Next a bullous eruption extended over his whole body, and his nails fell oif. Lastly, large granulation masses developed on the sores left by the bullae, and some of these became pedunculated. The man died apparently from exhaustion. He had long been in a most miserable condition, but although he had lost much flesh he had not become extremely emaci- ated. The post-mortem showed some recent broncho- pneumonia with pleurisy on the left side, and it revealed also the existence of a large lympho-sarcomatous tumour developed in front of the spine, and embedding the pancreas and large vessels. This mass weighed three pounds and a half. Nothing had occurred during life to lead us to suspect its existence, but as the man's skin was covered with excoriations we had not made any manual examination of the abdomen. Probably this tumour had but little to do with the cause of death, and I do not as yet see any probable connection between it and the rest of the symptoms. There was quite enough in the state of his skin and mouth to account for the fatal event; and whilst we must not forget the existence of the tumour, I incline for the present to set it aside as having been possibly an accidental concomitant of the disease.