SACCULATED AORTIC ANEURISM. 286 nor for the special mecliamcal disadvantage of having a large mass of steel wire within a thin sac. The particular points in the case to which we would especially direct attention are as follows : The fatal termination of the case was due to the sloughing of the tissues and the aneurism^ and this^ we fear^ was largely due to the treatment pursued. At the time of operating the external portion of the aneurism was enlarg- ing rapidly and the sac had no doubt given way. The operation itself led to an extravasation of blood beneath the skin, and a free discharge of bloody serum occurred from one of the punctures. But it was only when a compress was applied with sufficient firmness to arrest this oozing that really serious symptoms arose ; and it would seem that the moderate pressure of the pad of lint over the firm unyielding mass of wire in the aneurism sufficed to produce gangrene of the intervening tissues. It is well known that the sudden coagulation of the blood in a large aneurism is liable to cause sloughing of the sac and inflammation of the superjacent tissues, and this has been especially noticed in the case of axillary aneurisms where the tumours are surrounded by loose connective tissue. The reason assigned for this occur- rence is the altered nature of the pressure exerted upon these tissues when the fluid within the sac becomes solid. Still more is this the case when the contents of the aneurism are not a mass of fibrin and blood-clot only, but a tangled coil of steel wire. Looking back upon our case, therefore, we think that the partial rupture of the sac which had no doubt taken place at the time of the operation rendered it an exceed- ingly unfavorable case for any treatment, perhaps espe- cially so for the one we pursued. Further, the length of wire introduced was too great, and the unyielding mass it formed in the aneurism was distinctly a source of danger. Had we stopped when the wire broke, and been content with some ten feet or so coiled up in the cavity, it may be that we should have excited coagulation without