SUPPRESSION OF URINE. 257 quite prevented exploration, by the finger, of the anterior and posterior surfaces of the kidney and of its pelvis and ureter. The kidney itself was of a livid colour and studded here and there with small cysts. As there appeared to be some fluctuation, and with a view to examine for calculus, I passed in a long needle in several places with- out, however, striking a calculus. As urine dribbled out of these punctures I subsequently introduced a fine cannula and let out about six ounces of blood-stained urine. After the sac had been evacuated its edges were sewn to the margin of the wound ; a suitable drainage-tube was put in, it being deemed inexpedient to proceed further at the time. My colleague. Dr. Dawson Williams, was kind enough to examine the fluid for me. He reported a sp. gr. 1012 with neutral reaction, and that 100 cc. yielded 1*95 grammes of albumen, and that the filtrate gave on two estimations '7 and '6 per cent, of urea, an average of '65 per cent. The proportion of blood was probably 6 or 7 per cent., assuming all the albumen to have been due to blood. May 10th.—The boy passed a quiet night, sleeping for several hours. There was no return of the convulsions. On seeing him in the early afternoon I was disappointed to find the dressings quite dry and the sac quite empty. He had voided no urine ; a catheter was passed into the bladder and about 3ss of blood-stained urine was drawn off. Under the circumstances I considered further opera- tive interference contra-indicated. After consultation with Dr. Crocker a wet pack was ordered for an hour, small doses of elaterium were to be given internally and a poultice of digitalis leaves was applied over the region of the kidneys. May 13th.—The boy died. Between this and the pre- ceding datenot more than three ounces of urine were passed. No fluid escaped from the opening in the loin. Autopsy.—Only a partial autopsy was permitted. The two kidneys, ureters, and bladder were removed together. Connected with the external border of the right kidney was a sac which reached downwards to the brim of the VOL. LXX. 17