181 LESION OF SYPHILIS IN WOMEN. tangible thickenings giving a greater sense of density and resistance above that of the neighbouring unaffected parts. Of the nine, five are chosen for being fully re- ported, as sufficiently accurate in detail and authenticity to bear investigation; and some remarks are appended to them. The persistence of the characters of syphilitic chancres and their slowness to change will account for the few notes made as to their condition; though examined thrice weekly, notes would only be called for when any changes were observed in them. In conclusion, I think we are justified, on the evidence I have submitted, in believing that induration, palpably evident, cannot be regarded as a character essential to the primary lesion of syphilis ; the infective poison may exist in a sore without evidencing its presence by that character. Now that thie morbid anatomy and pathology are better known^ it can be understood how histological changes essential to the development of the disease may take effect at the seat of inoculation without necessarily producing such gross changes as to cause appreciable alteration in the form and substance of the tissues affected. Further it is evident that induration, at any rate in the case of women, does not possess that paramount im- portance which has been attached to it by the school already alluded to, who sought to elevate it into a sign peculiar and essential to the very nature of the sore. It cannot now be regarded as a character of vital importance, but must be assigned its proper place as an important, indeed the most important, clinical sign for diagnostic purposes which the primary sore presents. Nor is it by any means the only character for diagnosis which the primary sore pos- sesses. There are others, into which it is not the purpose of this paper to inquire. Nor is induration peculiar to the primary sore only, for abundant examples are forth- coming from the cases on which these notes are founded of consecutive or secondary sores in syphilised individuals, presenting induration exactly similar to that of primary