president's address. 4 He was one of the founders of the Clifton Dispensary, the CKfton Friendly Society, and the District Visiting Society ; foremost in starting and supporting all the various national schools of Clifton and the 'Hot Wells, the Bristol Ragged School and Blind Asylum, also the Clergy Daughters' School, of which he was secretary for some time. He aided Bishop Monk in starting the Diocesan Training College, and Bishop Baring in his new Diocesan Society. For the last fifteen years of his life failing strength and increasing deafness compelled him to withdraw entirely from all active work. But there was no failure in his mental powers. To the last he retained a lively interest in the works in which he could no longer take part. For many years he was confined to his room, where, with a cheerfulness and humility very touching to see, in peace and hope he waited with patience the end, which came within a few months of his ninetieth year.^ Great was the regret expressed by all who knew John Cooper Forster when told of his sudden and severe illness. While our late distinguished President was addressing us at the last Annual General Meeting poor Cooper Forster was fast sinking into his grave. He had but a short time previously vacated the seat of President of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. He was well known to many Fellows of our Society, in which he had not infrequently held office, so that this sad news came as a shock, and spread much sorrow among us. He expired the following morning. Cooper Forster, as he was familiarly known, had appeared amongst us but a few days previously, vigorous, active, and hearty; in such apparent health and strength that a long happy repose from professional labours, and continued enjoyment of a prolonged life in the midst of his family, promised to be the outcome of the uncertain future, if we had ventured to forecast what that future might bring; for 1 Letters from Mr. James T. Ware, Dr. Henry Marsliall, and Mr. Charles Hawkins.