MULTIPLE GANGHENE OP THE SKIN 416 cliest^ but no dulness. Two weeks before admission pimples like little blisters appeared round the anus, tken spread forwards to the top of the privates ; these broke, ulcerated, and fresh ones appeared daily for four days until they were so crowded that they coalesced. On admission there was a deep ulcer two inches by three quarters on the left buttock_, and at the side of the anus. Further forward, and separated by a narrow interval of healthy skin, was another irregularly bordered ulcer, which reached up to an immensely swollen vulva. The lower two-thirds of the left labium was in an ulcerating and sloughing condition, and on the right buttock was another smaller ulcer the size of a shilling, and there were two more on the right labium ; the parts round were of a deep dusky red and much swollen. The child looked very ill and she was taken into the hospital under Mr. Reeves. He made incisions into the tissues where there was most tension, and applied iodoform dressings, but the child died of asphyxia on October 26th, and no post-mortem could be obtained. Case 3.—George R—, aet. 2years, out-patient at the East London Hospital for Children, admitted December 15th, 1884. He had had measles five weeks previously, and got on well up to two weeks ago, when little white spots like blisters, but containing " mattery-looking stulf,"" with the skin round them reddened, came in the groin. They burst and became open sores, were poulticed, and the ulcers spread rapidly ; the flesh looked black, and had become much worse the last two days. When seen there was, in the left inguinal region, at the bottom of the abdomen, a deeply excavated and undermined ulcer about three quarters by half an inch. In the left groin there was a deep sloughing ulcer three inches long by three quarters of an inch wide, and quite half an inch deep in some parts ; it extended on to the scrotum, but was more superficial there; on the inner side of the leg it had gone down to the subcutaneous tissue. Half an inch below the large one was an oval ulcer half an inch long, very deep, and