24 peesident's address. to be hampered by sucb calls on his time as the attendance on patients would necessitate^ lie wisely decided not to dissociate himself from all public professional occupation. He was nominated a Fellow of the College when the Fellowship was first established^ and was elected a Member of the Council in 1863. In 1868_, he was elected a Member of the Board of Examiners. Having held the office of Vice- President of the College for two years,, he succeeded to that of President in 1871. Mr. Busk was one of the Trustees of the Hunterian Museum, and for three years held the Hunterian Professor- ship in Comparative Anatomy. He was a Member of the Senate of the University of London; and for many years acted as Treasurer of the Royal Institution of Great Britain. By refusing the demands of private practice he secured the leisure requisite for the cultivation of those studies which were congenial to one of his scientific turn of mind, and he warmly threw himself into biological work. About this time he became one of the Editors of the ^ Microscopical Journal;' and the numerous communications which appeared from his pen in the pages of that periodical contributed largely to its popularity and success. In 1856 his article "Polyzoa'' was published in the ' English Cyclopaedia.' In it we have an exhaustive account of the structure, and the first satisfactory attempt at a scientific arrangement of that group. Soon after this he undertook to draw up an illustrated descriptive Cata- logue of the Polyzoa contained in the collection of the British Museum, and brought to bear on the descrip- tions and systematic arrrangement of the species those principles whose soundness he had already established. He also reported on the new species of Polyzoa and Hydroids collected during the voyage of the Pattlesnake " in the Australian Seas. His report is published in the narrative of the voyage, and forms an important addition to our knowledge of these animals. In company with Dr. Falconer he visited Gibraltar in