144 LIGATURE OP THE FEMORAL ARTERY FOR but it is instructive cMefly in showing that while a ligature upon the artery far away from the aneurism may fail, a ligature lower down, nearer to the sac, may succeed. J. J—, set. 37, a hawker, was admitted into St. Bar- tholomew's Hospital on the 18th of January, 1883, with a popliteal aneurism in the left ham in the form of a well- defined globular tumour about two and a half inches in diameter. It was much reduced when the femoral was controlled and there was a distinct murmur over the sac. He had been conscious of something wrong behind the left knee for three months. There was no history of syphilis or evidence of intemperance or of disease in the arterial system elsewhere. On February 13th the femoral artery was tied at the apex of Scarpa's triangle with a silk ligature. All pulsa- tion in the sac at once ceased. The wound healed by the first intention throughout except where the ligature passed out. This, which was rather stout, did not separate till the thirty-first day. On the next day very slight pulsation could be detected on the inner side of the sac, but not elsewhere. The tumour had gradually diminished in size and become more solid. On the 24th of March he was discharged. In February, 1884, he was re-admitted with distinct pulsation in the tumour, which was then quite as large as before the operation. The pulsation was greatly reduced, but not entirely controlled by pressure on the femoral above the scar of the operation. Since his discharge he had been, for many hours of each day, on his feet following his business as a hawker. On one day in the previous November, after a walk of twenty miles, the tumour increased in size, and became painful. By rest and the continual application of an elastic bandage the pulsation almost subsided, and he left the hospital in the end of May. In February, 1885, he was again admitted with the aneurism in much the same state as when he came to us the year before. The tumour felt solid, but with distinct