WRITERS^ CRAMP AND IMPAIRED WRITING POWER. 303 hemiplegic, and in all tlie evidence of previous cerebral paralysis had to be carefully searcbed for. An attack of hemiplegia, even though it be slight and occur no matter how early in life, always, I believe, leaves its mark. Patients are often said to " recover from attacks of right hemiplegia and are able to follow their occupations without apparent difficulty. It is, however, in the performance of a delicate muscular act such as writing, which requires a maximum amount of steadiness and firmness, that the previous cerebral damage asserts itself. The writing is shaky or slowly executed, or executed with a certain sense of difficulty. In elderly people who come complaining of writing with difficulty the evidence of slight hemiplegia must always be looked for. Persons also who state that they have always had a difficulty in writing must be examined carefully for evidence of hemiplegia, a trouble which is by no means uncommon in early life, but which, I believe, is often not suspected, because the movements of an infant are too little specialised to enable defects to be noticed. When I speak of hemiplegia,^' a term which it is convenient to use, it must be understood that I include under it such a condition as brachial monoplegia from cortical lesion. Among the cerebral cases are included 3 of congenital left-handedness (1 in the previous paper and 2 in this), because I believe this defect to be due to lesion or ano- maly of the left cerebral hemisphere. Of these cases (75, 87, 88) only one wrote with his left hand, which he did fluently, and gave a normal slope to his letters. He was left-handed for fine work (writing, playing flute, and violin) and right-handed for coarse work (hammer, knife, cricket). The left hand and foot were bigger than the right, and the left boot was the first to wear out. Both this patient and No. 87 had injured the left arm (dislocation of shoulder and fracture of arm) in early life, but this had not cured the left-handedness. In 87 the right clavicle was shorter than the left, a defect which was noted by