857 HEADACHE TO THE EXCRETION OF URIC ACID 1 ' Practitioner,' March, 1886. irregular, and there may be a feeling of pain, heat, or fulness in the right hypochondrium ; the tongue is clean, pulse slow and of high tension and the temperature normal or slightly subnormal, these latter symptoms serving to distinguish it from the frontal headache of constipation. There may be sensory phenomena, as the well-known optical ones, or I have sometimes noticed the hearing altered so that sounds seemed greatly intensified ; there is often a family history of headache, or gout, or both (see my second paper to the 'Practitioner'). It is brought on by any relative excess in the meat food, especially in butcher's meat, and I have seen numerous cases both in private and among out-patients where, though meat seemed to be taken in great moderation, the head- ache has been markedly better when it has been entirely left off j and in the case which forms the subject of these investigations the headaches were reduced by diet treat- ment from one in a week to one in a month, and gradually down to one in eighteen months, and as I shall show, can be brought back at any time by a change of diet. Excessive exercise is a predisposing cause of headache, and it must be remembered that it (exercise) has as its result a large excretion of urea and uric acid. After trying various methods of estimating urea I finally settled down to use the hypobromite process with the precautions and corrections recommended by Dr. Noel Paton ;^ with regard to uric acid, there was not much choice, and Professor Haycraft's method, also recommended by Dr. Paton, was adopted. These two processes I used throughout my experiment and have every reason to be satisfied with the apparent accuracy of the results obtained. It will save further explanation if I say at once that I am myself a sufferer from this form of headache and its concomitant symptoms, and that these experiments were made on my own urine. They were therefore carried out with a regularity and continuity which it would, I think, have been very difficult to attain to with even the most