405 IN INFANTS AND ITS CAUSES. by a third of an inch in area, nearly all of the lesioDS being confined to the right side of the thigh and leg. During the previous two days several minute pustules had formed, a few on the inner side of the left thigh and on the right side of the head. The child was slightly rickety, fairly well nourished, but she had been pulled down by a continual diarrhoea which had only been stopped for a fortnight. The mother had lost four chil- dren out of eleven, three of whom died of consumptive bowels " they seemed to drop off at three months and waste, but they none of them had any rash.^' The case was diagnosed at the time as an " ulcerating pemphigus/^ Case 4.—Louisa M—, get. 3 years, was admitted as an out-patient to the Shadwell Children's Hospital on May 12th, 1884. The child had had "glass-pock" eight months previously and whooping-cough had been present for a month. One week before she came to the hospital a white patch formed on the occiput with blood in the middle following two pea-sized vesicles full of water; others followed on the scalp and on the right second finger. On the right parietal region when first seen was a white patch about a square inch in area slightly depressed below the surface, looking as if the skin was undermined with the border slightly raised and vesicular. Near it, was a millet-sized vesicle with a faint red line round it and there was also an areola round the large one. Near the white patch in the middle of a half inch vesicle was a scab, and there was also on the occiput another scabbed patch with blood-stained crust, about an inch and a half in diameter ; there were several smaller lesions with black sloughy centres about the scalp, and a deeply excavated ulcer an inch in diameter over the right ear, and the lips were scabbed and had superficial ulcers upon them. Case 5.—Ellen A. H—, set. 16 months, came first to University College Hospital on February 17th, 1880. The father was consumptive, the mother well, but lived poorly. She had had nine children, eight of whom were living,