248 OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. It might,, of course, be maintained that, both on the first and the second occasion, acute inflammatory processes may have been at work in the left kidney, and have thus influenced the secretion. In answer to which it can only be stated that on neither occasion was the urine smoky, and that after death the only appearance of acute change was shown in the cloudy swelling of the epithelium, which, after such an illness, one would naturally expect to find. It was suggested that the plan so ably urged and prac- tised by Mr. Thornton should be adopted in this case, viz. that the kidneys should be explored through an abdominal incision. Had this been done, the left kidney would certainly have been felt to be enlarged, but I do not think it v/ould have been possible to make out the right one because it was as soft as a piece of intestine. If the stone had been detected it might possibly have been pushed up into the kidney and removed through the loin with the best results, but if, as is not improbable, it had not been discovered, vv^e should have been left more per- plexed than before. Lastly, it may be asked why, when the secretion became re-established, the patient did not recover ? This is a question not easily answered. The percentage of urea was never more than 1*85, and the quantity of urine in the twenty-four hours never more than 32 oz. It is thus clear that the kidney was not doing its proper amount of work, presumably not enough to put the patient in a condition to overcome the tendency to vomiting and hiccough which finally exhausted him. To recapitulate, then, the points which seem to make this isolated case worthy of record, it appears probable from a consideration of the symptoms observed : 1st. That the presence of an abscess round a damaged kidney may cause intense albuminuria, and the occurrence of a large number of casts in the secretion of the opposite, comparatively healthy organ, which symptoms rapidly disappear on the evacuation of the pus.