160 RICHTER^S HERNIA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCELE. tion with small umbilical lierniae. An instance of strangu- lation of a part of the caecum is reported by Lorenz.^ So far as the partial enterocele is concerned^ the strangulation would appear to be sudden and to ensnare a piece of bowel that had been in no way prepared for the accident. In many of the cases there is reason to believe that the actual formation of the hernia and the strangulation of its contents were the simultaneous effects of the same acci- dent. In five cases of Kichfcer^s hernia (two inguinal and three femoral) omentum was found in the sac. In each instance the hernia had existed for two or more years. The symptoms of this rupture as gathered from an examination of fifty-three cases are as follows : In about one third of the examples the symptoms differed in no way from those that attend typical cases of strangulated hernia. There is the same prostration^ the same condition of pulse and tonguO; together with absolute constipation and persistent vomiting. It is interesting to note that in several of these instances the lumen of the bowel was found to be free^ to a varying extent, at the time of death. With regard to the remaining cases, it may be said that the symptoms generally were much less severe and pronounced than are those usually attending strangulation. In about one tenth of these a motion was passed on the first or first and second day of the strangulation. In the other cases the bowels continued to act from time to time. Sometimes a motion was passed without aperients every day. For example, in a case of eight days' duration, which ended in gangrene, the bowels remained perfectly regular. In other instances the bowels responded to aperients whenever given during the progress of the case. Thus in a patient who presented evidences of strangulation for ten days, an aperient was followed by three loose motions on the ninth day. The gut was gangrenous, and four fifths of its circumference were involved. In the remaining examples, a stool was passed without artificial aid on the third, fourth, fifth, or sixth day of the strangulation. As ^ Quoted by Albert, loc. cit.