426 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. Btomatitis was severe, but the skin disease never became formidable. The subject of one of these was a master tanner, a patient of Mr. Cordwent^s, at Milverton, near Taunton. He was about fifty years of age, and had enjoyed very good health until his sore mouth began. He did not believe that he had been exposed to any injurious influence in connection with his trade, and he said that he did not himself handle hides. When he first came to me he had sores on his lips, in the pouches of his cheeks, and on his palate. They were large ulcerated surfaces, with red margins, and in most parts covered by a distinct pellicle. If this pellicle was removed they bled easily. The tongue was but very slightly affected. During the first part of the case there was no eruption on the skin, but after the sore mouth had lasted for about three months there appeared some patches of a sort of papillary psoriasis on the backs of his hands, and his toe- nails inflauied, and several of them were lost. I had the advantage of a consultation with Sir James Paget in this case, as well as in the preceding one; I subsequently ad- mitted the man into the London Hospital, and he was there seen by several of my colleagues, his case exciting great interest. The treatment which was first tried was arsenic internally, and the application of caustics to the ulcers. He also took quinine and used various mouth- washes. The treatment under which at length the ulcers healed and recovery took place, was the administration of Liquor Opii Sedativus in ten-minim doses three times a day. Mr. M— had been under my observation from March 25th to June 30th, and during the greater part of this time he had been in the hospital. When he left us both mouth and feet were perfectly well. When the mouth was at its worst he was very weak and had lost much flesh. A year later, in answer to a letter of inquiry, Mr. M— told me that he remained in fairly good health, but was still liable to have his lower lip chap and peel. He came to town to show himself two years later still. He was in good health and had shown no tendency to relapse.