296 ANEURISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. to the third rib, exactly similar to tliat on tlie front of tlie bone. The concavity of the pleural dome was re- placed by a bulging^ and the wall of the sac was here so thin that it appeared in places to be formed merely by the serous membrane. There were no pleural adhesions, the right lung being depressed and compressed, but on section healthy. It extended but slightly into the apex of the axilla, and the acromial end of the clavicle projected for two inches out of its upper and outer part/^ " On laying open the sac from behind the coils of steel wire appeared to traverse almost equally all parts of it except the apex. On the wire, especially at the outer, lower, and posterior parts, there had been deposited a considerable layer of white fibrin, and where these covered coils abutted on the sac wall, the fibrinous material had extended over the interior of that structure. In the upper part of the sac, however, clotting had not yet taken place, only very soft black coagulation being found here. Digital examination of the interior revealed a soft shreddy wall everywhere except in the immediate neighbourhood of the large vessels, where endothelium still remained. The clavicle to the sternal side of its middle had lost more than an inch of its substance by erosion, and the bone, so far as it could be felt in the sac, was soft, spongy, and bare of periosteum. The first rib about its middle was also eaten through, and it, with the second and upper border of the third ribs, and right half of the manubrium sterni, was bare and rough as far as it lay in the sac.^^ " The aortic arch was slightly dilated, and showed in the intima raised opaque patches of atheroma. The innomi- nate artery, an inch and a quarter in length, contained no clot, and admitted with difficulty a forefinger; its walls were healthy. The common carotid was much smaller than the vessel of the opposite side, was somewhat flattened from pressure, but was pervious. That part of its lower outer wall which abutted on the aneurism had been by stretching drawn upwards, so as to make its lower orifice three-quarters of an inch above the opening of the inno-