100 ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE FAUCES. Mackenzie in the second volume of his work on ^ Diseases of the Throat/ Our medical writers ignore the subject or pass it over with the remark, either that tuberculosis of the pharynx is rare, or that it is always consecutive to tuberculosis of the larynx. On the Continent, however, and especially in France, the subject has met with far more attention. In Paris, cases have repeatedly been brought before the Societe Medicale des Hopitaux, the record of which will be found in almost every volume of the ^ Bulletins ^ of that Society for the past fifteen years, whilst the subject has been specially treated of in more than one thesis, and notably by M. Barth^ in 1880. The name of M. Isambert, too, ought to be mentioned as one of the earliest, if not actually the first, in that country, to recognise the nature of the affection, and give a concise description of the disease. In Germany, Wendt, Krause, 0. Weber, E. and B. Wagner, and Frank el have published cases, the last mentioned having made important contributions to the literature of the subject. As to the relative frequency of this affection the follow- ing particulars may be of interest: Frankel found pha- ryngeal tuberculosis only once out of 150 necropsies con- ducted at the Pathological Institute of Berlin during 1865-6,^ but later, in 1881,^ he got a much higher per- centage, as he found 10 cases of pharyngeal tuberculosis out of a total of 50 cases examined. Navratil^ found that in 20 out of 246 cases of laryngeal tuberculosis the disease had spread to the pharynx. Boecker and Schoetz stated to the Medical Society of Berlin, during a discussion on a case described by Krause, that they had met with 12 cases of pharyngeal tuberculosis in a total of 2950 cases of throat disease seen by them in two years, and Boecker mentioned ^ ' De la Tuberculose du Pharynx, et de I'Angine Tuberculeuse.' Paris, 1880. 2 ' Berliner Klin. Wocli.,' 1876, pp. 657, 678. 3 ' Zeitschrif t fur Ohrenh.,' x, 2, p. 113. ^ 'Etudes Laryngoscop.,' Leipzig, 1871, p. 28.