MULTIPLE GANGRENE OF THE SKIN 408 deiitly varicella ; in a few days it dried into scabs. On November 3rd a black blister formed on the inner side of the right knee^ which afterwards became a large gangre- nous ulcer; the slough was one inch by three quarters in size. On the evening of November Srd^ and the morning of the 4th^ the mother noticed that all the vesicles were becoming black blisters. She was admitted into Univer- sity College Hospital on November 8th. The child was smallj feeble looking, and very drowsy. On the right knee, as already described, was a deep ulcer, another on the flexor aspect of the left knee, several on the buttocks, and a small one on the left ankle. Just above the pubes was a patch consisting of a central scab surrounded by a vesicle, and this by a red areola. It began on November 5th. On the left side was a patch formed on November 6th ; in this only a faint areola was present, the vesicular part was more distinct, and the scab was smaller and lighter coloured. On the buttock several small red points showed signs of vesiculation. On November 14th the temperature was 99"8°, there were no new sores, and the old ones had not spread. On the 15th the temperature reached 105'2° at 7 a.m. ; it fell to 97*6° at 7 p.m., and the child was weak and listless. On the 16th the temperature rose again to 104° at 2 a.m., and the child died at 7 a.m. Post-mortem.—The upper lobe of the right lung was filled with minute infarcts the size of radish seeds, most of them breaking down in the middle. In the left lung there was broncho-pneumonia at the base. The liver was fatty. The skull-cap was thick, rough, and soft at the anterior part of the vertex, evidently due to syphilis. The brain was normal. There was no evidence of tubercle any- where. A closely analogous case to this is recorded by Mr. Warrington Haward in the ' British Medical Journal' for 1883, in which the child died with pycemic lesions in the lungs. In the next case the ulcers appeared when the varicella