87 EARLY DISSEMINATED MYELITIS. was also a spinal symptom. The fatal issue may, I think, be referred in part to the involvement of the medulla. The loss of voice, the ineffectual paralytic cough, perhaps even the rapidly developed pneumonia, deserve to be thought of in connection with the damage to the vagus nuclei; and it is possible that the deviation of the tongue to the left which came on under observation may have had some relation to the damage to the hypoglossal nucleus. But although it be granted that the patient was the sub- ject of measles and of myelitis, is it certain that there was any necessary connection between these two affections ? It is fair to state that in reply to inquiries made after the patient's death the father informs me by letter that his son^s previous health had been good, but that for a month before his death he had complained of his chest. The patient himself, however, told me positively that his illness dated from June 4th, and only referred to the pain down the breast bone as having troubled him from that time forward. Further, he had kept to his police duty until the 10th, on which date the rash appeared. I think, therefore, that there is no sufficient reason to suppose that the myelitis dated from a period anterior to the invasion of the measles. The question now arises. Is there anything in the records of measles and its complications which bears on the case under discussion ? The clinical facts, though not abundant, are more to our purpose than the pathological, which are very scanty indeed. The earliest case in point that I have been able to find is recorded by Mr. James Lucas in 1790.^ A woman, aged twenty-three, was feverish on the first day of her illness, developed the rash of measles on the third day, the rash was declining on the eighth day, and on the ninth day she became paralysed in both lower limbs. On the tenth day she had retention of urine, obstinate con- stipation, and a feeling of fulness of the abdomen. The 1 * London Medical Journal,' 1790, p. 325.