240 OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. seated matter in the neighbourhood of the kidney, and therefore on July ISth^ after consultation with Dr. Broad- bent and Dr. Poore, I made a free incision in the lumbar region, intending to expose the kidney. A deep abscess was found, containing about an ounce of thick pus, situated rather in front of and below the kidney. The tissues were quite confused from old inflammatory changes, and I did not succeed in making out accurately the locality of the kidney itself, though several punctures were made with a needle into what was supposed to be the organ, with, the object of discovering the stone which it was thought was present. Looked at in the light thrown upon the case by the post-mortem examination, it is probable that the kidney could not be felt because it was even then a mere soft bag of pus embedded in dense inflamma- tory tissue, while the stone could not have been struck because it was already half way down the ureter. Had I used a perforated, instead of a solid needle, it is probable that I should have tapped the kidney and by opening it at this time have discovered the whereabouts of the stone. But this was not done, so the search was relin- quished, and the anterior part of the wound was sewn up after inserting two large drainage-tubes to the bottom of it. The amount of albumen after the operation was not constant. On the following morning it was only -ji^, but it afterwards rose to J and J. It gradually, however, sank to a much smaller quantity, while that of the pus remained the same ; and though there was an occasional and unaccountable increase, it may be said that after three days it did not amount to more than the pus would account for. The casts, whicb were in enormous abundance on the 14th, had quite disappeared by the 17th. There was no haematuria after the operation, and no urine ever came through the wound. The amount of urine passed in the twenty-four hours now varied from 70 to 110 ounces, the sp. gr. being usually about 1012 to 1014.