225 TEEATMENT OF EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. second rib^ and less abundantly over the upper part of the right lung anteriorly. Loud blowing breathing was also heard to the right of the manubrium. The voice- sounds were not anywhere tubular in character. Feeling that paracentesis should be performed without delay I consulted Dr. Ewart on June 11th. The physical signs described in Mr. Benham^s report having been confirmed, and the patient^s pulse being of fair strength, we determined to aspirate the empyema imme- diately. Greneral anaesthesia was induced and the needle was inserted into the fifth intercostal space, close to the anterior axillary line. After escape of three quarters of a pint only of a shreddy pus, not foetid, but possessing a tenacious, stale animal odour, the flow ceased, and could not be re-established, although the cannula was care- fully probed and found patent. The heart receded only a little way towards the left, but the dyspnoea was consi- derably lessened. We determined to open the chest next day, and on June 12th two free openings were made (under the carbolized spray from a Benham spray-producer), one at the site of the previous aspiration, the other dorsally in the ninth interspace, in vertical line with the angle of the left scapula. The pus resembled closely that obtained by aspiration ; its amount was estimated at about three pints. A probe introduced at the anterior orifice could be moved freely to a depth of four or five inches, and could be pushed upwards and inwards as far as a spot corresponding to the level of the second right costo-sternal junction. Avoidance of all fluid injections having been agreed upon as a principle of treatment, a continuous drainage-tube was introduced and the wounds were dressed with a thin bag of carbolized gauze loosely filled with wood-wool impregnated with corrosive sublimate, and covered with the usual mackintosh. This formed not only a most efiicient absorbent pad but also completely sealed the wounds. Meanwhile the patient was much relieved. His breathing, which had been very rapid, became quiet and he was able to lie on his right side. Owing to the free VOL. LXX. 15