353 PORTIONS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. to submit to your notice the following macro- and micro- scopical specimens : You will notice that the valvular ring, which is well marked in specimens A. and B._, is less so in all the follow- ing specimens ; in 0. and D. it is breaking down, and the sutures coming away, and this in exact proportion the one to the other. In E. only one suture remains, whilst in F. and H. no trace of suture or valvular ring can be found. The omental adhesion is complete in the first five specimens, yet much less strong in specimen E., whilst in specimen G. it exists only as two small threads. In specimens F. and H. it has ceased to exist altogether. Specimen Gr. shows that these changes do not proceed as quickly in some cases as in others, but that they are always of the same kind. The microscopical specimens show that connective tissue is formed between the serous surfaces, glueing them together; that as the inner ring is cut away the super- fluous tissue, like callus around bones, is absorbed, that the muscular coat, as we should expect, is not reformed, but that the ends are united by connective tissue, and that as it contracts it draws the ends of that coat very firmly together, and that the mucous membrane is so closely united that villi and even Lieberkuhn's follicles appear to exist over the internal face of the scar itself. Further details are supplied by the cards accompanying each preparation. In conclusion, I may say that all these animals were operated upon in Owens College, Manchester, with one exception, and I beg to tender my thanks to Professors Lund, Stirling, and Dreschfeld, of that college, for their very valuable and kindly help and advice ; also to Dr. Haslam, of that college, who made all the microscopical sections, and who with Dr. Hunton, of the Ancoats Hos- pital, assisted me in the experiments themselves. All the animals, except the first two, were killed at definite times, being in first-rate health and condition at the time, and having given us no cause for anxiety after the fourth day. They were all treated in much the same manner, being VOL. LXX. 23