president's address. 19 member of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. In 1864 he was appointed House Surgeon to King's College Hospital; and subsequently held^ consecutively, the offices of Surgical Registrar and Administrator of Anaesthetics. After a tour of study at Vienna and Paris, he returned to London, and set himself down to hospital work. For some short time he held the appointment of Prosector at the- College of Surgeons; and in addition acted as Assistant Demonstrator of Anatomy in his own school at King's College. He became a Fellow of the College of Surgeons by examination in 1868, and was also an Honorary Fellow of King's College, London. When a vacancy occurred in the Surgical Staff of King's College Hospital, at no great distance of time subsequent to his having held the office of House Surgeon, Mr. Bell was elected Assistant Surgeon. In this position he worked diligently for eight. years, at the expiration of which time he was appointed Surgeon to the hospital. With this appointment a certain number of beds were allotted to him for his especial use. ■ ■ In the out-patients' department he was distinguished for the zeal and assiduity with which he endeavoured to impart instruction to the pupils of his class, and was consequently much appreciated by them. Notwithstanding a certain shyness and indecision of manner he became a great favourite with the students, and was justly looked upon as a thoroughly good teacher. Mr. Bell was very much^ interested at all times in all that related to plastic surgery. His operations for the remedy of. various deformities,'and the measures taken to overcome congenital defects, are reported to me to have been very successful. His own contributions to surgical literature consisted of the Lettsomian Lectures, delivered to the M-edical Society of London, on Diseases of the Testis,'^ and not long antecedent to his death he had completed an article on • Diseases and Injuries of the Male. Genital Organsior- Ashhurst's 'Encyclopaedia of Surgery.' ' This article- evinces a great amount of careful research and a consider^ able general knowledge of the subjects therein considered. -.