LIGATURE OF THE FEMORAL ARTERY FOR 146 noticed a swelling in the right ham for which, seven months later, the femoral artery was tied in Scarpa's triangle. This was followed for three .months by a reduction of the tumour, but afterwards it steadily in- creased. On admission the aneurism was as large as a common orange with considerable impulse. The femoral was occluded in the apex of Scarpa's triangle, but the popliteal pulsated strongly. Pressure on the common femoral stopped all pulsation in the limb. Bandaging and flexion having failed, the superficial femoral was exposed in Hunter's canal, and as it was found to be pervious though small, it was tied in two places and divided between the ligatures. This did not stop the pulsation in, or control the aneurism. In May, 1882, after another trial of pressure and flexion without avail, the popliteal artery was tied in two places and divided between the ligatures, an inch above the aneurism. Then all pulsation at once ceased and the sac rapidly diminished. I would go even farther than this, and suggest that in some, perhaps in many, cases of popliteal aneurism it would be better to tie the popliteal artery in the first instance rather than the femoral. The one single objec- tion of any weight to this operation is in the risk that the artery so near the aneurism may prove to be diseased. But is not the chance of this somewhat exaggerated ? At least in many cases of popliteal aneurism it shows no signs of it, and the frequent occurrence of aneurism in the popliteal artery is perhaps more largely due to the position of the artery and the strain to which it is occasionally subjected thaii to any material deterioration of its struc- ture. Moreover, let it be remarked that we are already accustomed, without much fear of the consequences in this respect, to place ligatures on other arteries for the cure of aneurism elsewhere at a very short distance from the sac, as in ligature of the subclavian for axillary aneurism and of the carotid in the neck below for aneurism above. The increased difficulty of ligature of the popliteal over