228 TEEATMENT OF EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. posterior wound, where they possessed a bleating character. When the probe was introduced it came into contact with the lung within a distance of three inches in the upward direction. It was inferred from the results of this day^s examina- tion that the lung was almost fully expanded during the periods of air-tight closure between successive dressings, leaving only a small cavity at the base of the pleura, and that it was partly adherent to the chest wall in the posterior mid-axillary region. On the 28th the fluid exudation was about the same in amount; the probe could still be sent into a large free space. On July 4th_, being anxious to close the anterior wound, and finding that the posterior opening was becoming uncomfortably small, we agreed that the latter should be enlarged, and this was done under ether. When the finger was introduced through the enlarged wound it impinged upon the tough surface of the lung, and below this it was possible to pass a probe in the direction of the anterior opening. On this occasion, in order to avoid the escape into the chest of any of the blood from the incision (which bled rather freely) the wound was kept exposed for a con- siderable time, and for upwards of three quarters of an hour, from first to last, perflation was applied under spray. On July 5th not more than one drachm of serum was secreted ; on the 6th, 7th and 9th, only a few drops. The anterior tube was removed on the 10th, and a smaller tube was inserted behind. On the 12th, exactly one month from the date of thoracentesis, the posterior tube was found lying out of the wound ; the next day only a pin-hole opening remained, and on July 15th the wound was healed. Breathing was now everywhere audible, and was of good quality except at the axillary base. The left shoulder was drooped from nervousness, but there was hardly any permanent deformity. The right chest measured 12| inches at the level of the nipple; the left 12| inches. Remarks on the case.—Without being pathologically remarkable^ the case is of some interest, inasmuch as it