294 ANEURISM AT THE EOOT OF THE NECK. about a quarter of an hour the swelling was thought to have become firmer, and as there appeared to be some resistance to the entrance of the wire this was severed and the cannula withdrawn. The puncture was secured with a very fine pin and twisted suture. The patient,, who during this procedure had been under the influence of ether, had become by this time very cyanosed. One hour afterwards the blueness of his surface had disappeared; his wrist-pulse was good ; and he complained only of some pain in the right arm. Next day the aneurism was thought to be distinctly firmer. The patient said that he " felt well." The suture was removed and the little puncture, after being dusted with iodoform, was covered with a piece of boric lint secured and covered with collo- dion. On March 1st, in the forenoon, just above the site of the puncture, bloody serum was found to ooze from a slight crack in the cuticle. Around this spot the swelling felt softer and it pulsated more strongly than elsewhere. This oozing continued through the day. In the evening, the left wrist-pulse being full and bounding, 120, and the aneurism heaving strongly, and the pain in it and in the arm having become very severe and the patient being in great distress, my house surgeon, Mr. W. K. Sibley, took 3ivss of blood from the left arm with marked relief. This was followed by sleep lasting several hours, and on the following morning (March 2nd) he said that he had scarcely any pain. The aneurism was thought harder, and it pulsated less forcibly. He expressed himself as feeling better and more comfortable. His principal source of distress was the collection of mucus in the throat. On March 3rd the circumference of the base of the swelling was 21 inches, the horizontal diameter 8J inches, and the vertical diameter 7| inches. On March 5th— three days later—the circumference had increased to 26 inches. On the 6th he passed a very restless night, his breathing being occasionally very embarrassed. The sputa were slightly bloody. The superficial veins of head and neck, particularly those of the right side, were turgid. On March