262 ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. suffered from gout or rheumatisni, and denied habitual alcoholic excesses. In 1884 he first complained of pain in his left leg and thigh without ascertainable cause, which he was told was ^' sciatica a year later the pain had be- come most severe in the left hip and loin, and for about four months previous to admission he had experienced a throb- bing sensation below the margin of the ribs on the left side, accompanied by intense, constant, fixed pain, referred to the back and diminished by bending the body for- wards. State on admission.—An emaciated foreigner with demonstrative manner, expressing himself in an almost incomprehensible ''patois/^ temperature normal, respira- tion tranquil, radial pulse beating 88 to the minute, feeble and rather incompressible. The cardiac dulness was obliterated by hyper-resonant lung note; the apex-beat was localisable only by the stethoscope at the fifth rib within the mammary line; the sounds were feeble and free from bruit, but the second sound was comparatively accentuated over the aortic base. The breathing was everywhere weak with prolonged expiration; there were no adventitious pulmonary sounds. Micturition was not abnormally frequent; the urine was of good specific gravity (1020—1025), free from deposit, and contained neither albumen, sugar nor casts. There was no evidence of skin, lymphatic, or throat syphilis. The abdominal walls were thin, lax, and sunken; some prominence and visible systolic pulsation in the epigastrium, especially to the left of the middle line, were noted; on palpation the pulsation was recognised as distinctly expansile in character, and its limits could be accurately determined as extending vertically from one inch below the xiphoid car- tilage to the umbilicus, and laterally, from the middle line to three and a half inches to the left; percussion over the area thus demarcated was dull. The tumour appeared to be fixed posteriorly and its pulsation could not be felt by the hand on the abdomen when the patient was placed in the knee-elbow position. A loud, blowing, systolic