270 ANEURISM OP THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. of a loud, musical diastolic, in addition to tbe more usual systolic bruit, was considered as evidence of narrowness of the aperture of the sac, and as it developed along with other signs indicative of its rapid extension, as confirmatory of these. It is universally admitted that a diastolic bruit over an aneurism is of exceptional occurrence, but this case, as well as one narrated by Dr. Wickham Legg^ and one by Mr. Bryant,^ invalidates the absolute truth of the dictum of Quincke^ and differs from the experience of Dr. Walshe''' and Dr. George Balfour^ that such a diastolic bruit is never present.^ Nor can the presence of a to-and-fro bruit afford occasion for wonderment, if free to-and-fro circulation take place between a large artery and a large aneurismal sac containing little or no coagulum, separated one from the other by a narrow and hard-edged aperture. The main importance of the case, however^ lies in the treatment resorted to, I admit that I am somewhat sceptical as to the value of drugs in such cases, and am inclined to consider the benefit attributed to them in many cases published as successful, as due mainly to the absolute rest and dietary restrictions with which they have been invariably combined. Da Costa's'' six consecutive cases treated by iodide of potassium in full doses are certainly, however, more convincing than the solitary triumphs ascribed to acetate of lead,^ sulphate of iron,^ aconite,^^ or ergotine^^ (employed subcutaneously by Wolff in a case of 1 ' St. Barthol. Hosp. Rep.,' vol. xvi, p. 258. 2 ' Med.-Chir. Trans / vol. Iv, p, 225. ^ ' Ziemssen's Encyclopa3dia,' vol. vi, p. 419. 4 * A Practical Treatise ou Diseases of the Heart, &c.,' London, 1862, 3rd edition, p. 494. ' Clinical Lectures on Diseases of the Heart and Aorta,' London, 1876, p. 351. 6 Dr. Balfour, however, cites an instance of diastolic murmur in abdominal aneurism in his second edition, 1882. 7 * Boston Medical and Surgical Journal,' vol. xcix, p. 813. ^ Daly, in ' London Hosp. Rep.,' vol. iii, p. 179. » Bone, in ' Lancet,' 1864, vol. ii, p. 207. i« Grimshaw, in * Med. Press and Circ.,' 1876, vol. i, p. 406. 11 ' Berliner klinische Wochenschrift,' 1873, p. 314.