president's address. 38 congested lungs and cardiac complications. He was assidu- ously attended by his friend Dr. Freeman, in consultation by Dr. Kay Sliuttlewortli. He died in his sixty-seventh year. Mr. George Gashoin died on the 5th of February, in the seventieth year of his age. He commenced his professional education as hospital apprentice at St. George's Hospital, and after passing through the usual period of studentship, served as House Surgeon in 1839. It was during this time that I acted under him as a dresser to the late Mr. Eobert Keate, then Senior Surgeon to St. George's Hospital and Serjeant Surgeon to the Queen. Mr. Gaskoin became a Member of the College of Surgeons in 1838, and a Licentiate of the Society of Apothecaries in 1841. He settled in London, and his first intention was to occupy himself with general practice, but subsequently he confined himself in some measure to the treatment of diseases of the skin. In this department of practice his uncle, Mr. John Samuel Gaskoin, had obtained a well-deserved reputation, and for forty years was looked upon as an excellent autho- rity on diseases of the skin, and might truly be said to have been a most successful and popular practitioner. Mr. George Gaskoin became connected as Surgeon with the British Hospital for Diseases of the Skin, an appointment which he held to within a short time of his death. He also held the appointment of Surgeon to The Artists' Benevo- lent Fund."i He gained the Wyatt Edgell Prize of £200 for his essay on ^The Range of Hereditary Tendencies in Health and Disease.' He also contributed some interesting papers to the medical journals at different periods on the subjects of cholera, hereditary tendencies in health and disease, and the history of syphilis. He published a translation of th© medical writings of Francisco de Villalobos in 1870, and so highly was his work in this translation estimated, both in Spain and Portugal, that he was created a Knight Com- ^ Letter from Mr. Charles Hawkins. VOL. LXX. 3