president's address. 21 at Guy's Hospital in 1854. At his first M.B. examination at the University of London he took many prizes, and when he graduated as Bachelor of Medicine in 1859 he took honours in every subject. In 1864 he took his Doctor of Medicine degree. Dr. Moxon was appointed one of the Assistant Demon- strators of Anatomy at Guy's Hospital Medical School in 1857j and in 1864 was elected Assistant Physician to the Hospital. He succeeded Dr. Wilks in the Chair of Patho- logy, and here he appears to have been in his element, showing great power of work and accuracy in detail, with extreme aptitude of conveying information in pithy and expressive language. His demonstrations are described as deliberate, elaborate, and emphatic. Disease was illustrated by finished drawings, many of which may be referred to in the ^ Transactions of the Pathological Society.^ Everything from his pen was clear, terse, and the result of honest work, honest conviction, and much original thought, "never slight or trivial in substance, and always brought up to the requirements of scientific accuracy." After being engaged for several years in teaching pathology, he was appointed to the Joint Lectureship of Medicine, and he continued his work at that post to the time of his death. In 1868 Dr. Moxon became a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, and subsequently took an active part in its affairs. He had of late years resided at Highgate, but retained his consulting rooms in the City. He had not been in good health for some time; his look was delicate, his temperament nervous and energetic. He had had several attacks of h^iuaturia, and suffered on occasions from headache, and often from want of sleep. It is reported that on the day of his death he had suffered in this manner, with the addition of persistent vomiting and some hemiplegic weakness. And thus passed away one of the most honorable of men, one of the most careful, cour- teous, and conscientious of physicians, a warm-hearted and generous friend. Dr. Moxon was elected a Fellow of this Society in 1868,