337 UPPER END OF THE EECTUM. would be about six or seven incbes from tbe anus. The mass could be suflSciently drawn tbrougb tbe anus to expose about an incb of bealthy bowel above tbe edge of the growth. No swelling could be detected in the left iliac fossa, and no infiltration of the intestinal wall beyond the immediate seat of the growth. Through the kindness of my colleague, Mr. Christopher Heath, this patient was placed under my care, and I removed the whole of the intussuscepted portion of intestine, including the growth. Operation June 9th : Ether. The patient was laid upon the left side with the thigh well flexed. The rectum was then thoroughly washed out, a quantity of feeculent and purulent matter coming away. Then the intussuscep- tion was pulled well out of the anus and washed, within and without, with 5 per cent, carbolic acid solution, which was also made to flush the space between the intussuscep- tum and intussuscipiens, until the whole area of operation was thoroughly cleansed. Holding the two layers of the intussusceptum well together between the left index finger in the bowel, and the thumb on the latter beyond the growth, 1 passed a needle on a handle, threaded near the eye, with silk, through its double wall from without towards the lumen. This instrument, however, did not answer, and straight round sewing needles were sub- stituted for it through the rest of the operation. With these a row of stitches was made to encircle the bowel, uniting the two layers of the intussusceptum firmly to one another, well above the new growth. Each thread was passed from the surface into the lumen and then back, and included from one sixth to one quarter of an inch of the circumference of the bowel in its loop. The intervals between the stitches were guarded by a second row similarly introduced about half an inch higher up the bowel. The growth was then cut away with scissors close below the lowest ring of stitches; but before the section was completed a few stitches were introduced above a spot at which the first row appeared to run too VOL. LXX. 22