president's address. 18 in 1882, and the Lettsomian Lectures in 1878. The sub- ject of these Lectures was ^' The Surgery of the Face," and included a very complete review of the whole question. These lectures were published in the ^ Lancet/ and were subsequently re-issued in a separate form. Mr. Mason was also the author of a work, entitled, " Harelip and Cleft Palate," and although nothing in the shape of novelty was added to this already well-considered portion of surgery, still it must be said that all points connected with it were very clearly brought to the notice of the profession, and were illustrated by several plates of original cases. Mr. Mason was a man of much genial character, generous, and hospitable—a character which, combined with the high musical talents with whicb he was gifted, his kind and cheerful disposition, and his friendly and social habits, not only endeared him to all who knew him, but secured him many sincere friends amongst his professional acquaintances and his patients. Erysipelas of the upper part of the larynx, with diffuse inflammation of the soft tissues of the neck, attended by great constitutional disturbance, were the marked symptoms of his last and fatal illness. These conditions ran a rapid course, and notwithstanding tlie constant and careful atten- tion of several colleagues and professional friends, he sank within four days of the commencement of his attack. Mr. Hiitdiinson Royes Bell died on the 15tli June, 1886. He was born at Sydney in 1843, but as his family returned to this country when he was quite young, his education was conducted partly in Jersey, and partly at King's College School in London. As he subsequently decided on Medicine as his future profession, he became, in 1860, a private pupil of Mr. Henry Smith, Surgeon to King's College Hospital. Shortly afterwards he entered the Medical School of King's College, where, it is reported, he was remarkable for his diligence, and especially for his devotion to the study of surgery. After going through the course of lectures and attend- ance on hospital practice, he obtained his diploma as