INDURATION IN THE PRIMARY 176 In the otlier four cases no thickening at all occurred throughout. In four the sores were rather elevated than palpably thickened to the touch. Indeed_, in eight cases out of the twenty-three it will be noticed how slightly, if at all, this character was present. It is evident then that though thickening may be pre- sent in the sore from its commencement, yet judging from this small number of cases it is not so in the great majority (here about four to one). Next it appears evi- dent that there is no fixed or even usual time in the course of the sore at which thickening may be expected to appear. Table C shows the very varying times in the age of the sore at which it occurred, up to forty days. If it is fair from so small a number of cases to take an average time of appearance, the nineteen cases would give fifteen days, or about the end of the second week, as an average time. Where the length of interval seems to be so inconstant, however, there is little use in taking the average except for the sake of comparison with the state- ments of other authors. Taking the average duration of the primary sores included in the table, which is found to be forty-five days, the sores would then have run just one third of their course, on the average, before thickening appeared. In fifty-seven other cases where the patients were admitted, bearing already the primary sores, twenty-five showed induration on admission. These cases would as a rule have existed less than a fortnight, that being the interval of the periodic examinations. In eleven of the remainder, the interval after admission before induration or thickening appeared is noted, and varies from three to thirty-two days, showing again how inconstant the time of its appearance is. I am aware that the general belief is that induration occurs early in the course of the sore ; and that it is thought to appear by the end of the first week or certainly before the end of the second. I have not, however, met with any details or statistics attempting to prove this,