OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. pelvis was quite free from inflammation, showing clearly that there had been no obstruction on this side. The left ureter was normal and patent. The only abnormalities visible to the naked eye consisted in a few small cysts exposed by removing the capsule, and in the fact that the cortical part was perhaps proportionally rather small and the whole kidney substance somewhat opaque. The bladder appeared to be quite healthy. The urethra was not examined, but as the urine up to the last passed without difficulty, it may be assumed that there was no obstruction in it. There was no sign of tubercle in any organ examined. It was interesting to note that the adhesions, resulting from the left pleurisy which occurred thirteen years pre- viously, were quite soft and spongy, and could be easily broken down ; and also that the pericardium was through-- out adherent by adhesions of similar density. No suspicion of this condition was raised during life, though the heart was frequently examined. There was, indeed, as has been mentioned, a slight mitral murmur, though the mitral valve seemed to be perfectly healthy and competent. The heart was not hypertrophied, the left ventricle was perhaps a little thicker than normal, but the right was certainly thinner. This condition no doubt originated at the same time as the pleurisy, namely, thirteen years before. Under the microscope the left kidney shows signs of chronic interstitial inflammation, in increase of the connec- tive tissue between the tubules and around the Malpighian capsules; but there is little if any evidence of acute interstitial change. The epithelium, on the other hand, is swollen and cloudy, in some places quite plugging the tubules, in others being partly shed ; these changes are no Idoubt to some extent chronic but principally acute. The kidney must therefore be considered to be in the state which we recognise as one that is particularly apt after operations about the bladder and urethra to develop into a surgical (suppurating) kidney ; but it is, I think, clear that it was a good working kidney which might have continued func-