MULTIPLE EMBOLISM OP ARTERIES 135 2nd. The ulcer in the aorta just above the valves was independent of either mechanical irritation or the lodg- ment of an embolus. It was evidently the result of an extension to the artery wall of the ulceration which was in progress in the valves themselves^ thus showing that in an artery ulceration may result from infection by contact with, or in proximity to, valves affected with ulcerative endocarditis. 3rd. It is well known that in pyeemia and allied condi- tions emboli are capable of conveying to distant parts septic particles which infect the tissues in which they lodge, and set up in them changes of a precisely similar nature to those which are in progress in the part from which they themselves have been derived. Considering that direct extension to the aorta of the valvular inflam- mation is capable of causing both softening and dilatation as well as ulceration, we submit that it is eminently probable that the ulceration of the brachial and posterior tibial vessels, the ulceration and dilatation of the right common iliac and cerebral arteries, and the dilatation of the left external iliac, were all alike due to an inflammatory process set up in them by infective emboli, some of which were found in situ after death. 4th. The fact that in a very great proportion of . all published cases the form of heart disease, found after death, was warty or fungating, and in 40 per cent, combined with ulceration and destruction of the valves, affords the strongest argument in favour of the theory that not only in our case but in all others of aneurism due to embolism, the peculiar form of heart disease present is the real explanation of the arterial lesion. 5th. Of fourteen specimens examined by the writers, exclusive of that which is the subject of this paper, the diseased artery has seemed to be distinctly ulcerated and not the seat of aneurism in three instances, viz. : Ulnar artery»—Guy's Hospital Museum, No. 1503^°. Axillary artery.—Guy's Hospital Museum, No. 1502^^.