10 PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS, Mr. Streatfeild was a pupil at the London Hospital. He became a Member of the Eoyal College of Surgeons in 1852^ and a Fellow by examination in 1862. Soon after the commencement of the war in the Crimea^ lie volunteered for service in the East. His services were accepted, and on his arrival there he was appointed Assistant Surgeon to the British Civil Hospital at Smyrna. There he remained until peace was proclaimed between England and Russia. His services were then no longer in requisition, and he returned home. Soon after settling himself in practice he was elected Assistant Surgeon to the Royal London Ophthalmic Hos- pital in Moorfields, and Assistant Ophthalmic Surgeon to University College Hospital. He was Senior Surgeon to the former Institution, Professor of Clinical Ophthalmic Surgery in University College, and Surgeon to the Hospital at the time of his death. Mr. Streatfeild had been in a somewhat delicate state of health for some few years previous to his death. In the bitter cold weather of last March he became the subject of an acute attack of pneumonia which proved fatal in the course of a very few days, at his house in Upper Brook Street. He was the first Editor of the ' Ophthalmic Hospital Reportsand many of the contributions to its numbers were the work of his pen. He was also author of the chapters on Ophthalmic Surgery in Erichsen's ^ Science and Art of Surgery,' also of articles on ophthalmic subjects in ' Quain's Dictionary of Medicine.'^ As an operator on the eye, Mr. Streatfeild, in the opinion of those best capable of judging, appears to have excelled, with much-deserved distinction. He was dexterous in manipulation, accurate and collected, but rapid in execution. The subject of adhesions of the iris had been for some time one of great interest to him, and he had given much time to it. To correct the evil results of the various forms of iritis, he had introduced an operation for liberating adhesions of that membrane to the capsule of the lens, and ' ' British Medical Journal,' March 27th, 1886.