432 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OP THE LIPS AND MOUTH. much like flat chilblains, and there were red fissures in the finger clefts. She told me that on a former occasion her toes had been affected in a somewhat similar manner. The sores which had healed in her mouth had left white scars. From the last date, the end of 1880, I saw nothing of Mrs. P— until March, 1883. She told me that she had in the interval been free from symptoms with the exception of being now and then threatened with relapse both in the mouth and on the skin after taking cold. During the last three weeks she had experienced a relapse more severe than usual and a number of pellicular ulcers were again present inside her cheeks and lips. Leucomata from the old ones were still visible. On this occasion she had no eruption on the hands, but during a relapse last autumn a few spots had appeared there. She considered that she had always prevented the attacks from developing by using the arsenic which I had formerly prescribed. She was easily influenced by it and often had her eyelids made puffy. Eeviewing this case now in the light of a three years' narrative, I feel able, in the first place, to dismiss conclu- sively the suspicion that it was syphilis. In the first instance I may confess that I was almost inclined to share in the diagnosis which had been previously given. We may admit that the combination of conditions, sores on the genitals, between the toes and in the mouth, with an eruption on the skin, was such as might easily lead astray in this direction. The results of treatment leave us, however, in no doubt. The eruption always dis- appeared under arsenic and the stomatitis yielded to chlorate of potash in combination with it. We have then a case of stomatitis clearly not of local origin, and attended by numerous ulcers on the tongue, lips, and cheeks, and associated with skin eruption of very varying type. That which had been first called eczema was subsequently dry and scaly, next looked like lichen planus, and next like bad chilblains or erythema multiforme. It affected the