IN INFANTS AND ITS CAUSES. 413 child survive it is surprising how rapidly the lesions cica- trize, of course leaving deep and indelible scars. There are all grades of the disease. In the mildest form ulceration may be quite superficial, the lesions reaching to the vaccinia-like stage and then drying up, often accom- panied by pruritus, and lasting by successive crops for a considerable period; there may also be simultaneously observed mere excoriation up to pretty deep ulceration, with or without a few lesions going on to gangrenous sloughs; while in the most extreme cases haemorrhage occurs into all the vesicles, which become rapidly gangre- nous and lead to the death of the child in a few days, either with a general tuberculosis, or, pygemic lesions. When less severe than this the contents of the vesicles are not haemorrhagic, but a large proportion of them become gangrenous, and death is very likely to ensue but may be deferred for some time, and is usually due to a secondary complication. As regards etiology, all the cases hitherto recorded have occurred in infants or young children ; an analysis of my own and eleven of other authors, in which the age is stated, shows that by far the majority occur under one year, the figures being fourteen not exceeding one year, six not ex- ceeding two years, and three under three years of age ; the youngest was three months old. My colleague Mr. R. W. Parker, had a case of a girl, set. 12, in whom a hydroa was aggravated by the administra- tion of iodide of potassium, into hemorrhagic bullge which then discharged and gave rise to extensive ulceration and sloughing lesions very suggestive of the disease under consideration. By far the majority occur in girls : fifteen out of the twenty-one cases where the sex is mentioned, and of my own cases ten out of twelve were females. With regard to the diseases antecedent to it my own cases are alone available for reference, most of the other reporters of cases having accepted Mr. Hutchinson's dictum that they were all consequent on varicella or vaccinia. In one after vaccinatiou, a mild case, and in