214 THE USE OP THE ASPIRATOR AS A MEANS OP of the use of the aspirator, which came under my notice in 1875, when I was house surgeon to St. George^s Hos- pital, and of which I have some brief notes. A man, set. 65, applied for treatment on account of re- tention of urine due to enlarged prostate. Having failed to introduce a catheter, and as he declined to become an in-patient, I aspirated the bladder above the pubes and drew off a large quantity of foul urine. The patient complained of a good deal of pain at the time of the withdrawal of the fluid, and it struck me that there was rigidity about the seat of the puncture directly afterwards. He came again on the following day, having succeeded in the meantime in introducing his catheter into the bladder, as he had been for some time accustomed to do. There was then distinct tenderness and rigidity above the pubes, but not much pain. Three days later he again presented himself, having suffered a good deal of pain since his last visit. He had also noticed on the previous day some pain and tenderness about the back of his perinseum, where I found on one side, rather in front of the ischial tuberosity, a boggy, ill-defined, fluctuating swelling. Upon incising this, some very foul, dark, and thin discharge came away ; at the same time I withdrew from the cavity some long string-like sloughs. The parts above the pubes were still tender and hard, and pressure over that situation caused some discharge from the perineum. He again refused to remain in the hospital, went away, and I did not see him again. In two other cases which have happened under my observation aspiration of the bladder has been followed by pain, supra-pubic rigidity, and nausea, in one case lasting five hours, in the other nine, after which the sym- ptoms subsided without further complications. In both instances the urine evacuated was very foul. The first of these cases presents an undoubted instance of the extra-peritoneal rupture of a diseased bladder, the direct result of its puncture by an aspirator needle.