152 richter's hernia or partial enterocele. example of this form of hernia. George Arnaud^ in 1749, makes brief mention of it in his work on hernia. In 1757 a remarkable paper was published by Louis^ on gangrene after hernia. In it he describes the partial enterocele. The gut/^ he writes, is not always en- gaged in the ring by a portion large enough to form a loop. Often it is only nipped, and that over a surface of varying extent.^^ He states that such strangulated hernias are attended by milder symptoms, and that they quite commonly lead to gangrene. The illustrative cases, how- ever, quoted by Louis do not all bear examination. He appears to have considered that if spontaneous cure followed the establishment of a faecal fistula in these cases that the hernia was of the kind just mentioned. Exam- ples of the partial enterocele were also described by Morgagni^ and de Haen* about 1761. It remained, however, for Augustus Gottlob Richter^ to give, so far as I know, the first really scientific descrip- tion of this particular hernia. His treatise on hernia was first issued in 1778. In this work he devoted a separate chapter to what he terms small ruptures,^^ and therein gives a full, faithful, and elaborate description of the hernia in which a part only of the circumference of the bowel-wall is strangulated. His account of the clinical aspect of the condition is excellent, he recognises Louis' work, and also appreciates the true nature of the hernia that was first described by Littre. Of the surgeons who have noticed this hernia since Richter's time little need be said. A list of the principal writers will be found in the bibliography at the end of this paper. One word now on the subject of nomenclature. The French surgeons give to this variety of strangulated ^ 'Traite des Hernies/ Paris, 1749. 2 • Mem. de I'Acad. Royale de Chirurgie/ 1757, T. viii, p. 26. 3 ' De Sedibus et Causis Morborum,' Venet., 1761, Epist. 34, Art. 18. 4 ' Ratio Medendi,' Lugd. Bat., 1761—75. * ♦ Abhandlung von den Briichen,' 1778, 1785.