THE RELATION OF A CERTAIN FORM OF 356 all suggested tliat it miglit be an alkaloid produced, by bacteria in tlie intestines, out of nitrogenous food taken in excess of tke individual powers of digestion; but a subse- quent careful investigation of tlie history and symptoms brought out such a strong relationship to certain modified cases of gout that in a second paper to the ' Practitioner/^ I put forward this view of the subject, and at the same time I began to turn my attention to the nitrogenous excreta of the urine, as the question seemed to be almost certainly one of nitrogenous metabolism. It is the result of these urinary investigations that I now wish to bring to your notice. The headache in question is a very well-defined one, and as a rule easily separable from the very numerous head- aches due to other causes ; it has been written about by Dr. Liveing,^ Professors Latham^ and Trousseau,"* and has been noticed more or less shortly by other well-known writers, some of whose remarks are quoted in my second paper to the ^ Practitioner.' It has been called megrim, sick headache, nervous headache, bilious headache, &c. That the headache is not necessarily hemicranial is now, I believe, generally admitted, nor are special optical phenomena a necessary part of the picture. It may affect the whole head, but when at its worst there is generally one spot more affected than the rest, and in the case that forms the subject of this paper this spot is the centre of the occiput. The pain when severe is throbbing, a throb corresponding to each arterial pulsation ; it is greatly increased by movement, or by stooping down. Among concomitant symptoms are mental dulness and inability to fix the attention, extreme and persistent cold- ness of the extremities, and other vaso-motor phenomena, as slight rigors, and irregular local perspirations ; appetite is uncertain but not altogether lost, the bowels are often 1 Ibid., March, 1886. 2 * Megrim and Sick Headache/ Churchill, 1873. ^ ' On Nervous or Sick Headache/ Cambridge, 1873. ^ ' Lectures on Clinical Med.,' New Syd. Soc, vol. iv.