CHRONIC INi^LAMMATJON OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 425 with but little fatigue. As soon as the skin disease com- menced we began the use of arsenic in combination with quinine ; it had, however, no influence in arresting the pro- gress of the disease, and after a little time the whole skin with exception of the head and face was covered with sores. When the bullae broke, papillary excrescences sprouted up from their base. During the whole of this time the mouth remained sore. There were ulcers in the cheeks, and on the tongue, and a condition of constant ptyalism. At the end of exactly five months from the beginning of the illness, the patient, who had become greatly emaciated and very weak, sank from exhaustion. I had seen him with Mr. Chaldicott several times, and we had done our best to discover any cause for our patient^s malady. The house in which he lived appeared to be quite healthy, and his wife, children, and servants, all re- mained well. In the endeavour to discover a cause, and also to devise a successful plan of treatment, we had the benefit of consultation with Sir James Paget and Dr. Bristowe. Nothing, however, which was done had any obvious effect upon the disease. During the last ten days of life small doses of opium were given, but it was possibly begun too late. To recapitulate the principal features in this case we have an inflamed mouth, which after a few weeks took on a condition resembling ptyalism. Next, papillary growths in the flexures ; next, suppurative inflammation of all the nails ; next, a pemphigoid eruption over the whole body ; and lastly, debility, emaciation, and death. The autopsy did not reveal any structural disease excepting recent hepatization of the lower lobe of the right lung. These two cases are the only ones under my own care in which the disease has ended fatally. But in several of those about to be related, the inflammation of the mouth resisted treatment so long and the failure of health was such that we much feared for the result. At the same time that this last case was under care, I had under observation two others. In both of these the