345 PORTIONS OF THE SMALL INTESTINE. 1885. These sutures fall naturally into groups, whicli may either be at once set aside as useless or their respec- tive merits and demerits compared. Inasmuch as the first group does not attempt to comply with the primary necessity, that of approximation of serous surfaces, it will be sufficient merely to mention the names of their proposers, and pass at once to those methods which observe this law. The first group contains those proposed and described by John Bell, Reybard, Le Dran, Larrey, Ritch, Sabatier, Ramdohr, Louis, Chopart and Desault, Benjamin Bell, Amussat, Beclard, Henroz, Assaki and Duplay, Heister, Garengeot, Petit, Richter, LofiJer, Palfin, and the sutura qiiatuor magistrorum. The next group contains but two—the methods of Bau- dens and Denans. These both require the use of internal metal rings. Not only are these difficult to introduce but—and this is the chief objection to them—the rings are left behind in the interior of the intestine, and are foreign bodies which when loose will make their way towards the anus, and may at any time form the nucleus of an obstruc- tion which will necessitate a fresh operation for its relief; moreover, if these methods are practised upon the small intestine how are these rings to pass the ileo-caecal valve, and are they not almost certain to set up irritation, even ulceration, at that point ? Of the two remaining groups it may be said that they contain all the methods at present in use, and it is needful, therefore, to devote more attention to them. Fortunately, however, the main points of each class are the same in each modification, and the advantages and disadvantages depend so much upon these main points, that it is not necessary to take each individual method separately. The first of these, or the third group in order, comprises the methods of Dupuytren, Yesien, Gely, Appolito, and Bouisson. All these agree in the use in various ways of a continuous thread. The fourth group comprises the methods of Lembert, Czerny, Jobert, Briedenbach, and Gussenbauer. All these