LESION OF SYPHILIS IN WOMEN. 183 minus; mucous membrane there being thickened and nodulated, and presenting a fissured sore. 18. Sore on labium minus, surface slightly raised, covered with greyish pultaceous material, subsequently becoming dryer, and scarcely secreting. Was never indurated. 104. Sore within posterior commissure, small, with yellow surface; a little thickening about its margin. 109. Sore on outside of labium, large and raised, with pultaceous material on surface; soon changed into dry, bright red patch with silvery scales; infiltration spread very widely. 127. Sore just outside orifice of vagina, a patch of mucous membrane covered with pultaceous material, becoming slightly raised, but never thickened; also several roundish sores with slightly raised surfaces on labia. 105. On red and swollen prepuce an oval excoriation, with adherent pultaceous material and thickening; later it became dry, red, and raised a little. 137. On outside of labium a papular elevation, changing to an elevated and slightly thickened circular, smooth, flat surface, moist and glazed looking; became large on a wide and thickened base; whole labium became enlarged and of a congested hue. 138. Two little thickened infiltrations, surrounding hair-follicles; also a superficial excoriation on prepuce, which was swollen and thickened. 111. Sore on outer surface of labium; a large hemispherical tumour, size of half a Tangerine orange, projecting, firm, and elastic; its rounded surface smooth, of a yellowish-red colour, scarcely secreting; labium otherwise not swollen nor tliickened. 136. On labium, perinseum, and near anus, three sores in form of raised tubercles, one becoming the size of a walnut shell, with smooth, moist, greyish-pink surfaces. 142. Sores on front of labium, six or seven in number, superficial cir- cular abrasions, level with general surface; leaving reddish discoloured spots a little raised, but not thickened. 112. Within interlabial folds and posterior commissure, three or four sores, superficial, with yellow surfaces, edges looking a little swollen and raised, but never thickened. 90. On outside of labium a small circular spot with moist abraded surface, never becoming thickened. 146. Around vaginal entrance several superficial sores, with reddish or yellowish surfaces, not raised, nor thickened; becoming later a little raised, but continuing quite soft. 6. On front of labium three small, superficial, circular abrasions, not altering their characters throughout; but seven days after healing their sites became thickened. 45. On fold of nates two round, quite superficial sores, which spread