242 OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. and a small amount of albumen_, perhaps no more than would be accounted for by the pus. The recurrence of these attacks^ while the general health did not suffer^ determined me, at his request, to undertake a further operation with the object of removing the stone which I presumed was present in the kidney ; but, after his mind was made up, there followed a period of such excellent health that the investigation was put off again and again, and on Thursday, December 10th, 1885, after some of the usual preliminary troubles, the last and fatal attack set in. I have no authentic record of the earlier symptoms, but it seems to have been quite similar to the previous ones and continued until Monday the 14th. During this time he administered to himself hypodermic injections of morphia pretty freely, taking (I think he said) two and a half grains subcutaneously. On the 14th the colic passed away and on the 15th complete suppression of urine set in. I saw him on the 17th, when he seemed unaware of the serious import of this new symptom. He had then all the appearance of a patient under the influence of opium. His pupils were small and he was very drowsy, dropping off to sleep whenever he was left undisturbed. His skin was dry and the temperature subnormal ; the pulse hard and incompressible, but the heart-sounds indicating an incomplete systole, a slight systolic mitral murmur which had always been present from the first being audible. The respirations were very slow, the expiration especially being prolonged. Nothing could be felt of either kidney as he lay upon his back, nor was there any local pain or tenderness. Dr. Broadbent and Mr. Beck saw him with me in the evening, and the question of attempting any further opera- tion was carefully discussed and, as the event showed, unfor- tunately discarded. We concluded that in all probability the right had for a long time been his only working kidney (the left, it was assumed, having been rendered useless either as the result of calculous or strumous disease), and