352 RESTORATION OF THE CANAL AFTER REMOVING The results whicli, a jpriori, are expected from this metliod are the following:—The specimens will show whether or not they have been obtained. The advantages of both interrupted and continuous sutures are obtained, and their drawbacks consequently avoided. Leakage, except from the giving way of the knots, which should never happen if the silk is reliable and reef-knots used, is impos- sible. The serous surfaces are accurately applied to one another. Each suture affects its own moiety of tissue and no other. The sutures and knots being contained in the lumen of the intestine from the first, make their way most easily in the direction shown by Travers, B. Bell, Dupuy- tren, &c., to be the one always followed by intestinal sutures, namely, towards the interior. From the same cause, i.e. the disposition of the threads and knots, no constantly irritating foreign body is left in contact with the peritoneum covering surrounding parts. Such bodies, even if perfectly aseptic, will develop, and tend to render permanent the results of plastic peritonitis, results such as adhesions between the sutured intestine and neighbouring coils, the wall of the abdomen, and, but far more constantly, with the omentum. Such adhesions cannot fail to be sources of future danger. Some ad- hesion of the omentum appears almost always to follow the infliction of a wound, but it is claimed for this stitch that, no constant irritation being present, such adhesion does not become firmly organised, but tends to become again loosened, and between the second and third month becomes again perfectly free, and in its normal relation to the wounded part. No after-contraction takes place in the part sutured. The valvular ring necessarily produced in the first instance by any stitch capable of properly uniting the intestine, is by this suture again removed, and a smooth internal surface, covered by villi, is left. This process commences during the first fortnight, and is complete usually about the third month. To prove and illustrate the foregoing statements^ I beg