RICHTER^S HERNIA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCBLB. 161 regards prognosis^ no difference is to be noticed between the cases attended by constipation and those in which the bowels were regular. In three cases there was persistent diarrhoea throughout the whole progress of the trouble. This appears to have been due to enteritis. All the patients died. In one case where death occurred on the ninth day^ no motions were passed, but a purge was followed by a discharge of bloody mucus. With regard to vomiting, it is upon the whole less frequent and less severe than in the usual form of strangu- lation. It may not appear until the second day, and may become less urgent as time progresses. In several instances the patient did not vomit more than three times a day throughout the progress of the affection. There is no connection between the condition of the bowels and this symptom. In some cases where the bowels were opened regularly, the vomiting was marked and persistent, while in others of like nature the vomiting was slight and tended to become less. The vomiting is rarely feculent, the fifty-three cases affording only six examples. The earliest appearance of this symptom was on the fourth day of strangulation, and the latest appearance on the eighth jday. In three of the cases there was absolute constipa- tion, in two motions were freely passed on the second day, and in the remaining instance no motion, but bloody mucus jwas passed, and that after a purge. One of these cases serves to illustrate the uncertain progress of the vomiting. The patient was a man aged 65, the hernia femoral and of {ten years^ standing. The symptoms began with pain, prostration, and colic. Vomiting commenced on the second day, and on that day the bowels were relieved. jOn the third and fourth days there was no vomiting at iall. On the fifth day there was copious bilious vomiting, and on the sixth day the ejected matters became feculent. Hiccough is quite uncommon, and I can find only five jcases in which it occurred. In one of these it was one ijof the earliest symptoms, and persisted until the patient^s VOL. LXX. 11