336 INTUSSUSCEPTION OF THE L. E. S—, a9t. 28, was admitted into University College Hospital on June 7tli, 1886, complaining of great constipa- tion and the discharge from the rectum of much offensive purulent matter and clots of blood. All her life she has been subject to constipation, and more so since her mar- riage five years ago. She has been in the habit of allowing her bowels to be confined for two or three days, or even as long as a week. Otherwise she has been a healthy woman, and is so now to all appearance. Her third and last confinement was four months ago. The labour was difficult and painful, and forceps were necessary. Her family history is good, except that her father died of phthisis. The trouble in the rectum commenced sixteen months ago with the appearance of small streaks of blood. Eight or ten months ago she became conscious of some foreign body in the bowel which began to prolapse about two or three months later at each stool. At this time blood was very forcibly expelled each time just before the prolapse, which had to be returned before the fasces could be passed. She was treated with astringent injections at this time, with some benefit, but her medical man discontinued this treatment on account of her pregnancy. There has never been any diarrhoea alternating with constipation. The motions consist of hard lumps varying in size from that of a bantam egg to a marble, more commonly the first. A large, soft, irregular mass can be felt by the finger in the rectum. Under an anaesthetic it was drawn down and made to project from the anus, and being carefully examined was found to consist of an intussusception with a mass of new growth at its apex. This mass nearly surrounded the bowel with nodular projections, and occu- pied about two inches of its length. The mucous mem- brane for a short space on the right side of the bowel was not invaded. The infoldmg of the mucous membrane was felt about three inches from the anus, so that the position of the growth, with the intussusception reduced.