418 MULTIPLE GANGRENE OF THE SKIN cases and is possibly of troplio-neurotic origin ; it is, how- ever, worthy of record as a local phagedaenic ulceration. Case 5.—William M—, set. 9 years, admitted as out- patient at Shadwell on April 30th, 1883. His general health had always been good, and he had had no previous illness up to a week before Christmas, when he was exposed to a chill ; he seemed languid, and then, without pain pre- ceding it, a ^' blister the size of a farthing appeared one inch below the middle of the clavicle, which broke and left an open sore, and this spread to a wound three and a half inches by two and three quarters in extent and of irregular shape. Just above this was a superficial oval ulcer about an inch in its long diameter, and below there was a serpentine ulceration, beginning to the right of the middle line and extending irregularly for about an inch and a half to the left of it, but nowhere more than a quarter of an inch broad. Since the ulceration his head has been in the position of right torticollis and he seems languid but is otherwise toler- ably well. The ulcer took nearly six weeks to attain its full size and did not begin to heal for some time after that, but had been well for some weeks when seen by me. The small patch under the right clavicle was still livid red, and without sensation. The large patch was also deficient in sensibility, a pin-prick being felt as something sticking in, but there was no pain. He was put on iron and cod-liver oil, and gradually recovered, but it was four months before he was restored to health, and the skin of the scar was slowly regaining its natural colour, but there was even then defective sensibility in the cicatrix. Hilbert^ records two cases of spontaneous gangrene of the eyelids in female infants under one year old. A small pustule with yellow scab first formed without apparent cause on the upper lid, rapidly enlarged, the part beneath became gangrenous, and when the slough separated a circular ulcer nearly an inch in diameter was left, which 1 ' Viertelj. f. Derm. u. Syph.,' vol. xi, 1884, p. 117.