372 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. family history, but she was stated by her former medical attendant to be a woman of loose morals and a chronic drunkard. She had had four children, three of whom were stated to have been stillborn; and she had suffered from two previous attacks of the same nature, apparently, as the present, occurring after confinements, and lasting for from five to six weeks each. History of present illness.-—She has complained of more or less weakness in the knees for nearly a year, the weak- ness being noticed particularly on going upstairs. In August and September of 1885 she had an attack of what was called congestion of the liver,^^ and complained then of being very weak. About the beginning of November she experienced some difficulty in walking, and this has gradually increased. About the end of the same month she began to complain of numbness in the fingers, and was said to have no feeling in the forearms when pinched. Soon after this double wrist-drop was noticed. Gradual wasting, most marked in the arms and legs, has been observed during the last three months, and for about four weeks she has been wandering in her mind. Present condition,—Pulse 108, small, regular, compres- sible ; resp. 24, laboured ; temp. 102*4°. The tongue is red at tip and edges, dry and tremulous, coated on the dorsum with a thick, brownish-white fur j the skin is hot, dry, and harsh. She is much emaciated, has an apathetic expression, and lies helplessly almost on her back in bed, with the legs flexed, and resting on their right side. The face is pale, except on the cheeks, where there is an irregu- larly-shaped pink flush. The pupils are moderately dilated and equal, acting to light and accommodation. The lips are dry, teeth decayed, gums congested, and there is a dark red line on them close to the teeth. The voice is feeble and the speech rather thick. She has an inefficient par- oxysmal cough unaccompanied by expectoration. The thorax is large and rounded; the respiratory movements are chiefly upper costal, and are increased in amount as regards elevation but not as regards expansion. During inspira-