177 LESION OF SYPHILIS IN WOMEN. except a table quoted from Sigmund as follows : 71 cases on nintli day ; 84 cases on tenth day; 76 cases on fourteenth day; 15 cases on seventeenth day ; 12 cases on nineteenth day; 3 cases on twenty-first day. This gives the middle and end of the second week as the usual time for the appearance of induration. Consider- ing, however, how little to be relied on are the statements of patients with regard to the time of appearance of the sore, too much weight must not be attached to it. Some of the older writers, influenced no doubt by the theories they had conceived, were dogmatic in their teach- ing with regard to the time of the appearance of induration. ThusRicord is stated to have proved induration in every sore by the fifth day ; and elsewhere he is quoted by Bumpstead as stating that he had never seen a sore become indurated after the third week. With this, however, the latter says he cannot agree. In considering the discrepancy between what is gene- rally taught concerning the usual time of the occurrence of induration, and the large proportion of cases here given in which it was delayed till later in the course of the sore, it is to be remembered that these have to do with women only, in whom it has been shown that in a large propor- tion of cases induration is ill marked and slight through- out the duration of the sore ; possibly, therefore, it is slower and weaker in its development. The cases on which opinion has generally been formed have probably been mostly or wholly in men, and dependent entirely on the statements of patients. The cases here given were not dependent on the statements of patients; and the dates of origin must be correct within a day. The nature of the syphilitic cell-infiltration of the primary lesion, which is the basis of the clinical character of induration or thickening, is of a chronic or at most of j a subacute variety ; yet exceptions are occasionally met I with in which the action is of a rapid, acute, and inflam- matory kind, even when due to the uncomplicated effect of the syphilitic poison. This is well illustrated in Case VOL. LXX. 12