175 LESION OF SYPHILIS IN WOMEN. term thickening/' diminisliing as before said in some cases to zero^ conveys more correctly tlie true sensation conveyed by them to tlie toucli. The thickening when well developed has a solid resistant feel not quite resem- bling other growths or swellings in the skin or mucous membrane, and seems to occupy a position between solid inflammatory infiltration and neoplastic tumour, which corresponds also with its pathological position. The amount and degree of induration has been thought to be dependent in some way on its situation. These cases do not bear out any connection of this kind. Fournier states that induration is least marked in those sores which occur just external to the vaginal orifice, with which statement these observations agree thus far, that whilst sores as little indurated may occur any where else, those occupying this position are especially apt to be but slightly indurated. Beyond this there seems to be no connection between position and the degree of induration. The mode and time of the development of induration may next be considered. For this purpose a group of twenty-seven cases, whose date of onset, having occurred whilst the patients were under observation in hospital, is accurately known within a day, may be referred to. They are appended in Table B. These sores, arising under the circumstances they did, at once possessed additional interest and were carefully watched for the development of induration as a confirm- ing sign of their true nature. Of twenty-three of these cases included in Table C, in only five was there any sign of anything approaching to thickening at the onset; and it will be noticed how slightly marked it was in these cases, by reference to Table B. Of the re- mainder, the time at which thickening became appreciable is given in Table 0, in eighteen cases, in days intervening from the outbreak of the sore; it will be seen the time varied from seven days to thirty-four days. In one case (Case 6) no thickening appeared in the sore, but seven days after it had healed thickening occurred in its site.