TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. 231 This suggestion remained unnoticed, and tlie prevailing prejudice against air held continued sway. In 184J, in an inaugeral thesis on empyema, which was supposed to reflect recent knowledge and practice, Sedillot laid down the following proposition (p. 173) : Une indication complexe, tres importante pour la cure, est celle de laisser toujours dans la poitrine assez de pus pour eviter Tintroduction de Pair et trop pen pour ecarter les parois thoraciques.'^ The deep-rooted objection to the escape of air into the chest had its origin in the observation that pus in contact with air underwent putrefaction. Cases, however, were not wanting in which putrescence occurred even after its exclusion, and Sedillot was driven to use the lame argument that air did harm by its bulk, mechanically preventing the expan- sion of the lung.^ Within recent times the lingering distrust of air sug- gested to Bowditch the aspiration method, a valuable addition to surgical resources ; and the success of this method may have served for a time to emphasize an erroneous belief. But since the beginning of the Listerian era we have learnt to regard air with less diffidence, and the treatment of empyema may now be expressed in a formula of surprising simplicity : '''' a timely and sufficient incision to be kept aseptic and open.'' In this form it was applied by Dr. Markham Skerritt, in 1876,^ without the complication of any fluid injection. Air was capable, however, of something better than harm- less neutrality. It was pressed into the service by Roser and subsequently by Quincke. To Roser^I must resign the claim of priority for a method which, up to three days before writing these lines I had held to be not only original but novel. Roser's method differs from my own less in its principle than in some of its details. The air injected is 1 The discussion on thoracentesis before the Academie de Medecine in 1872 is of historical interest in connection with the alleged dangers from the admission of air into the pleura. 2 ' Brit. Med. Journal/ July 22nd, 1876. ^ 'Archiv der Heilkunde,' v, p. 81, 1864.