HEADACHE TO THE EXCRETION OF UEIC ACID. 363 as I could get them to the two parts of the 26tli of December. In the first part, 6.45 p.m. to 8.30 a.m., viz. thirteen hours forty-five minutes, 9*2 gr. of uric acid were passed, or '66 gr. per hour; and in the second part, ten hours fifteen minutes, 6*9 gr. or '67 gr. per hour, so that on this day, when the headache lasted the whole twenty-four hours, the uric acid excretion remained much above normal the whole time. It appears then that on both these days when there was headache present, the uric acid excretion was above '6 gr. per hour; but when the headache was absent either before or after the paroxysm, ifc fell below the average as •46 gr. on the 26lh of December, "43 gr. on the 1st of January, and '42 gr. on the 3rd. There is thus shown to be a very definite relation between the uric acid and the headache, viz. that it (uric acid) is diminished before and increased during the paroxysm, and what is more remarkable, the increase and diminution very nearly balance one another. Thus it may be seen from the table, or the diagram of curves, that the uric acid falls below the urea on the five or six days before the headache by rather more than 4 gr., while on the day of headache uric acid is above urea by about 5 gr. : the difference being due, I suppose, to some retention of uric acid on some of the days previous to the beginning of this diagram. That the uric acid is below the urea on the two days after the headache shows, I conclude, that there is again some retention going on. In will be seen from the table that on the 28th of December, 16 gr. of uric acid were passed, though there was only a threatening of headache on that day, and in the analysis not given in this table I note, on the 29th of November, that 15*9 gr. were passed, with the note on health, " Quite well, bowels open and on the 26th of November 15*2 gr. without any note of a headache being present. What, then, is the explanation of this apparent contradiction ? If we had nothing but the absolute amount