WRITERS^ CRAMP AND IMPAIRED WRITING POWER. 311 the muscles of tlie riglit arm and hand. The electric irritability was^ however_, normal in all the muscles except the first right dorsal interosseous^ in which the irritability was depressed. The patient was a lad of unusual intelli- gence^ and had worked hard at his writing lessons, whicb caused him fatigue and pain. It would seem as though, the pressure on the plexus had necessitated increased effort, and had predisposed to the fatigue of the muscles of pen- prehension and the lessening of the electric irritability in at least one of them, and that probably the most important. The pressure on the nerves of the brachial plexus was relieved by operation, and some weeks later I saw the boy writing without difficulty, and I found on examination that the depressed irritability of the first right dorsal interosseous no longer existed. It must be remembered that not only had the pressure been removed but the boy had had a prolonged period of rest. Occasionally the irritability of one or more muscles has been found exalted. The reason of this is doubtful. Occasionally I have found a muscle supplied hy a tender nerve manifesting exalted irritability, but this is by no means invariable. I feel sure that the practice of massage increases the irritability of muscles. It must be remembered that change in the irritability is judged by no fixed standard but only by comparison with the opposite limb, so that we are always liable to the fallacy that a relative change may not really mean an absolute change from the physiological normal. For ex- ample, when we find the right first dorsal interosseous more irritable than the left, this fact may really be due to an abnormal depression in the irritability of the left first dorsal interosseous. It must be remembered also that a muscle which mani- fests excess of irritability is not necessarily more efficient than tbe corresponding muscle of the opposite limb. Some authors have spoken of a condition of " irritable weakness,'^ a condition which is probably a fact. Not only have the muscles shown great differences in their