ON THE ACTIVE PRINCIPLE OF CASTOR OIL. 115 albumen, we have before us what might become an article of diet.^ As an example of the similar transforma- tion by heat of a poisonous substance into an article of diet we may cite cassava. The only difficulty that I see here is the husks of the seeds ; these would be very indi-. gestible and nauseous, but I fancy could be easily removed before the expression of the oil. As regards the possible importance of this body I may mention that there are some 700,000 gallons of castor oil exported from India, which would mean some 8000 tons of castor-oil cake, and as this is highly albuminous, and by the mere cooking becomes harmless, it simply implies that there are so many tons of highly nutritious food thrown away. The value of this in India is inestimable, because it would be much more valuable than so much rice, and would help to eke out the rice. The importance of a nitrogenous food, where religious superstitions forbid the use of animal food, is self-evident. I suggest this as worthy of con- sideration by those who could investigate the matter fur- ther. In times of famine what a blessing it would be, and, so far as I can see, it would keep exceedingly well in a very dry climate. Bihliograjpliy. HouzE D^AuLMONT. Archivcs General de Med., 6 ser., xiii, p. 284. ] 869. Dr. Rapp. Recueil de Memoires de Medecine Militaire, &c,, Oct., 1870. 1 I may state that for comparison, and with the hope of obtaining the sub- stance free from albumen, I examined some leaves fresh from Italy, but obtained no active substance; there seemed to be a substance like the altered glycoside present. The so-called riciniu of Tuson, &c., is probably not origi- nally present in the seeds, but is a product of decomposition. The statement made by Power in the ' American Journal of Pharmacy,' xxxvi (1854), p. 207, that the seeds have a protein substance and a body like amygdalin may be true ; but though I had not any description of the experimental grounds for this, I can only say that if we make a watery extract after an alcoholic one, and add the products to each other, the result is nothing physiologically.