TEEATMENT OP EMPYEMA BY PERPLATION. 233 orifice the air would be delivered into the cavity beyond. Where two openings have been made, one of them will admit the tube and will require to be closed air-tightly during perflation, the other remaining patent. In either case obstruction may arise from some internal plug as soon as the patient has been so placed that the wound of exit is absolutely dependent. If air be now injected, its tendency will be to drive out the plug. The following mechanical principles are at the root of the method : (a) air diffuses into every recess of a given space, whereas fluids gravitate ; (6) a current of air pene- trating with a certain force into an air-containing cavity will distribute some of this force in every direction; (c) owing to the specific lightness of air, fluids or solids will not be suspended by it, but will inevitably fall in it to the most dependent spot. It is freely admitted that fluid injections can also be made to enter into universal contact with a cavity, and that they also are capable of transmitting even pressures. With these objects in view, various authorities^ have utilized the principle of the syphon. But with all fluid injections it remains a matter of chance whether the solid to be expelled will gravitate through the fluid medium to the exact spot desired. Moreover, several objections must be raised against the method of filling, emptying, and refilling the chest by means of a syphon. Two, three, or more pints of fluid make up a weight which can hardly be tolerated by the pleura with comfort nor, if hydraulic pres- sure be superadded, with safety. The lung is thereby submitted to sustained compression of a very inelastic kind j and further, in virtue of its great buoyancy it is not unlikely to be floated up, out of position, thus straining its vessels. But the chief practical defect common to the syphon method, and to all methods involving fluid injections, is the difficulty of absolutely emptying the pleura by their ^ F. Cresswell Hewett, 'Brit. Med. Journal,' March 11, 1876; Kashimura of Tokio, * Berliner klinische Wochenscbrif t,' No. 3, 1880.