6 PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. had no precedent to guide him, yet he brought the opera- tion to a satisfactory termination, though the patient died in the course of two days from exhaustion. It is not desirable to discuss here the circumstances con- nected with Gruy's Hospital which immediately preceded Mr. Cooper Forster's resignation of the office of Surgeon; but, as a result of what took place, he, in conjunction with Dr. Habershon, finding their position more than uncomfortable, tendered their resignations, and thus was severed the long official connection with Gruy's Hospital, not, however, without an expression of regret on the part of the Staff and his numerous pupils. A handsome testimonial was also presented to him—satisfactory evidence of the opinions of those who knew him best, and were able to judge of his conduct. As a Surgeon Cooper Forster was considered prompt and decided. Ever alive to test any suggested or supposed improvement in surgical practice, those he approved of he carried into effect with an enthusiasm quite characteristic of the man. A paper on ^Acupressure,' published by him m the ' Gruy's Hospital Reports,' relates how he journeyed to Aber- deen to see for himself this method of arresting haemorrhage, practically illustrated by Dr. Pirrie and Dr. Keith; and how, on his return home, he at once adopted it. The fol- lowing year, however, produced another article from his pen, on the comparative merits of acupressure and torsion of arteries, and he soon learnt to prefer the latter to the exclusion of every other method of arresting arterial bleed- ing after operations. When the use of antiseptics in the surgical treatment of wounds was first being advocated. Cooper Forster was one of the earliest at Gruy's Hospital to test the worth of their employment. Some years past, when the temperance movement began to make an impres- sion on the general public. Cooper Forster adopted the treatment to the strict letter with patients admitted to his wards. This for a time only; for as a result of his investi- gations he came to the conclusion that the judicious use of