Aneurism op the abdominal aorta. ^^65 withdrawal of the trocar but ceased as soon as a few inclies of tlie wire were introduced. Now was found the extreme difficulty of the operation owing to the coiling of the wire and the depth of the cannula. The wire, which was of fine steel_, similar to that used in Dr. Cayley's case^ reported last year and similarly purified, was coiled upon a roller which, being too large to enter the abdominal wound, was necessarily held at some distance from the cannula; thus, several inches of wire had to be unwound before it could reach the cannula, and there was, of course, a strong tendency for it to coil into the same circles as upon the roller. It was both a tedious and difficult task to straighten the wire as it was being paid through the cannula. Another difficulty was caused by the depth at which the cannula had to be held by the left hand of the operator and the tendency to lift the cannula which the force of the pulsation exerted, so that it was not always easy to be sure how much pressure was required to adjust the cannula between the outward force of the pulsation and the inward force of pressing the wire into the sac. The result was that the cannula slipped out of the sac, and after about eight inches of wire had been paid through, it was found that the greater part of this wire had passed simply into the abdominal cavity. The wire was there- fore severed close to the sac, and the cannula was again introduced at a point near to the first puncture and more wire was paid into the aneurism. At length, after—as it was believed—about a foot of wire had been introduced, an insurmountable kink stopped its further progress. The cannula was withdrawn, and the wire was cut off close to the surface of the sac. By this time the aneurism was felt to be very appreciably harder than at the beginning of the operation. There was no haemorrhage throughout except- ing the free flow from the aneurism each time the cannula was introduced, but this ceased as soon as a short length of wire had been fairly introduced into the sac. The withdrawal of the cannula was not followed by hgemorrhage. 1 * Med.-Chir. Transactions,' vol. Ixix, p. 267.