96 ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OP THE FAUCES. forming granulations. Nowhere have these granulations undergone caseation. The mucous glands present the following appearances : The epithelial cells are everywhere destroyed and replaced by granular disintegrated matter. Around the alveoli outside the basement membrane are great numbers of small round cells. A few giant cells are seen. With high power (Yg-) in oil immersion (sections stained with the Weigert-Erlich method and mounted in oil of cloves and Canada balsam) numerous bacilli tubercu- losis are seen, especially abundant in the collections of small round cells, many being contained within the cells, others lying between them. Upon the surface no epithe- lial cells are seen, only round cells, disintegrated matter, and micro-organisms, for the most part not tubercular.''' The tubercular nature of the ulceration is thus fully established. Case 2.—George A. S—, set. 3 years 5 months, was admitted into the Hospital for Sick Children on August 27th, 1880, under the care of Dr. D. B. Lees, who has kindly permitted us to report the case. The mother gave the following history. The child has been ailing since he had whooping-cough eighteen months ago, cough being the chief trouble. He has had diarrhoea for four months, and been passing blood in his motions ; and also for the last two months the motions have con- tained matter. He has had lumps in his neck for six months, these have been worse for the last month. About six weeks ago he complained of sore throat, and for three weeks drinks have returned through his nose, and his speech has been indistinct and nasal. There are three other children, healthy. The parents are healthy, but there is a history of ^^consumption'' on the mother's side. On admission the child was found to be pale and wasted. The tongue was clean, the tonsils a little swollen, and the glands in the neck decidedly enlarged. The child's speech was so indistinct that it was quite unintelligible ; fluids did not return through his nose, nor did drinking cause