richtee's hernia or partial enterocele. 159 majority of cases the two were free, and it is remarkable that in instances where herniotomy was performed there was no difficulty in liberating and reducing the bowel. If no other evidence existed than that afforded by my own specimens at the College of Surgeons, they woald be alone sufficient to refute Schmidt^s assertion. They would serve to disprove also the grounds upon which this writer's scepticism is founded. He believes with Roser^ that the reported cases of Richter's hernia as an acute condition are valueless, that the reporters have been deceived by appearances, and that the bladder-like projection on the bowel is produced really by the whole loop being firmly pinched in at its base while it has become distended at its summit. Roser gives some ingenious diagrams to illustrate his views. On the other hand, that a portion of small intestine may become adherent over the hernial orifice, and that the bowel wall so placed may become pro- truded through that opening must be allowed. It may also be conceded that a diverticulum may form when a portion of the bowel is adherent to the wall of a very small hernial sac. Albert^ describes this condition as the chronic form of the partial enterocele. He states that the pouch that is formed in the bowel interferes with peristaltic move- ments, and that in time some stenosis is produced with all the symptoms of chronic obstruction of the small intestine. Quite apart, however, from the formation of any diver- ticulum, it is known that adhesion of the lesser bowel to any unyielding parts may produce such changes as will in time lead to the symptoms of chronic stenosis.^ Observations that apply to the small intestine cannot be made in equal degree when the colon is concerned. Many cases have been noted where a part of the circum- ference of the colon has been found to be engaged in a hernial sac. This has been especially observed in connec- ^ Handbuch der anatomischen Chirurgie,' 5 Aufl., p. 327; and ' Central- blatt f. Chirur./ No. 24, 1886. 2 ' Lehrbuch der Chirurgie,' Vienna, 1885, vol. iii, p. 316. 3 Treves, ' Intestinal Obstruction,' London, 1884,