150 RICHTER^S HERNIA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCELE. The nomenclature of this hernia is involved in no little confusion. English writers either describe it without special name or speak of it as Littre^s hernia. This latter term is employed by most German and French surgeonS;, but is applied to a variety of rupture quite distinct from that now under notice. In 1700, Littre^ (who at that time signed his name De Litre) published an account of a new form of hernia/' and detailed three cases. Two of these were examples of a Meckel's diverticulum finding its way into a rupture. The third case was of too vague a character to be of any scientific value. Littre believed the diverticulum to have been developed in the hernial sac, as the result of constriction and pressure. The following were the diagnostic points of this " new form of hernia—abdominal pain with prostration, absence of constipation, of meteorism, and of hiccough, vomiting that was of slight severity and never feculent. The precise nature of the diverticle was not demon- strated until the early part of the present century, when its anatomical character was established by Joannes Meckel.^ Before Meckel's time, however, it had been discovered by several observers in hernial sacs. Thus Mery,^ in 1701 reports a case of strangulation of the diverticulum in a hernia; other examples of this form of rupture were provided by Wrisberg,* Gunz,^ Euysch,^ Morgagni^ and others.^ Some of these writers offered no explanation of these occurrences, others, like Mery, adopted the theory propounded by Littre. Since Meckel's time, 1 * Memoires de I'Academie Royale des Sciences/ 1700, p. 300. 2 ' Handbuch der menschlichen Anatomie,' Halle, 1815-20. 3 Mem. de I'Acad. Royale des Sciences,' 1701, p. 272. * Loder's * Journal fiir die Chirurgie/ Bd. 1, p. 182, Jena, 1797. 6 * De Herniis/ Lips., 1744, p. 6. ^ * Thesaurus Anat.,' Amsterdam, 1707. 7 'Adversaria Anatomica,' 1741. 8 See Caziu, ' Sur les diverticules de I'intestin,' Paris, 1862, p. 91, and Reicke's work.