ON THE ACTIVE PRINCIPLE OF CASTOR OIL. Ill cUoride of calcium and afterwards soda, a precipitate of hydrate of lime falls, and along with this there is also precipitated a compound of lime with a physiologically inert glucoside. By continued washing with water, rendered alkaline by soda, the albumen present can be almost entirely removed, leaving the hydrate of lime and the compound of calcium with the glucoside behind. By now adding oxalic acid the glucoside can be set free, and as it is insoluble in alcohol and ether it can be precipi- tated by the addition of two parts of alcohol or of ether to one of the solution. The glucoside then falls as a flaky substance, very like the active substance containing albumen obtained from the seeds. This fact, which was discovered by Professor Schmiedeberg, would seem to indicate that we are here dealing with an anhydride of a glucosidic acid, which becomes inert whenever it is altered from its anhydrous condition, and becomes either hydrated or combined with a base. In this character it appears to resemble other bodies of a similar nature, such as euphorbin and other substances of the acrid group, or cathartic acid, which was lately shown by Stockman to be an insoluble, non-nitrogenous glucoside of this kind. Although the glucoside has been prepared, I have not further examined its composition. Referring to the crude but active substance, I may state that, when injected hypodermically, it is excessively active, causing the usual congestion of the intestine with small extravasations over all the serous membranes. Thus after *0059 gramme injected hypodermically there were extravasations into the wall of the intestine on its sub- serous aspect, into the mesentery, into the pericardium (visceral), slightly into the lungs, into the fold between the cerebrum and cerebellum, and into the dura mater of the spinal cord. Large doses of the substance or of the seeds taken by the mouth cause similar effects. The active body obtained by Bubnow is the same as that which I have obtained, and he supposes it to be the active principle of castor oil.