president's address. All who were acquainted with Dr. Frederic Weber learnt to appreciate his gentle nature. A more kindly, courteous character it would be difficult to meet with. I had the privilege of knowing him for many years and frequently met him in consultation. I cannot express myself too highly in his favour to do justice to my own estimate of his cha- racter. I have seldom met with one so diffident, more clear- headed, more charitable, and yet so firm of purpose. He was, too, a man of much deep feeling. His son, a pupil at St. George^s while I was still on the active staff of the Hospital, was taken seriously ill and died soon after. I cannot forget the tenderness of expression and the gratitude with which he received my sympathy on that occasion; and I was especially struck by the truly patient and gentle submission with which he met his severe affliction. Dr. Weber possessed great musical talent. His voice would have enabled him to realise a fortune had his tastes led him in that direction, rather than to lean on the merits of his professional acquirements. He invariably declined the society of the most fashionable, when satisfied that he was only invited to make himself of use; Yanity Fair had no attractions for one of his worth. Mr. John Fremlyn Streatfeild was the seventh son of the Rev. Thomas Streatfeild, of Charts Edge, Kent. He was born on the 14th of October, 1828, and died on the 18th of March, 1886, in the fifty-eighth year of his age. The Streatfeilds, with whom the subject of this memoir was connected, are a very old Kentish family, and have been settled at Chiddingstone, near Penshurst, in the County of Kent, for more than 350 years. John Fremlyn Streatfeild himself took a great interest in the antiquities of his native county, and spared no pains to collect all that related in literature and other ways to the history and antiquities of that part of Kent. He was a good artist, especially in architectural subjects, and was at the time of his death preparing a work on the Antiquities of Kent, with illus- trations by himself.^ ' Letter from Mr. Marcus Beck.