291 ANEUEISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. until the present, otherwise his health had always been good ; he had always been strong and well able to do the heavy work incidental to a seaman's life. History of ^present illness,—On October 13th, 1885, he stumbled, and in falling struck his neck upon the edge of the tail-board of a cart, receiving at the same time a cut through the lip. For this he went to St. Mary's Hospital, and he continued, he said, to attend there until about six weeks before he entered the Middlesex Hospital in August of the following year. He first noticed the swelling in the neck about three weeks after the date of the fall. It had gradually increased, and latterly the enlargement was attended with much pain. The pain spread from the swelling up the right side of the neck to the shoulder, the armpit, and the arm. He had had occasionally slight difiiculty in swallowing, and also slight embarrassment of breathing, but not to the degree of causing actual distress. The diagnosis formed by Dr. Cayley, in which Dr. Powell, who also examined the patient, concurred, was aneurism of the innominate artery and aorta. The patient remained in a medical ward until Sep- tember 27th, when he was transferred to my care for the greater convenience of subjecting him to the plan of treatment known as Tuffnell's. The treatment hitherto had mainly consisted in confinement to bed, the topical application of ext. belladonnse, and the internal exhibition of potass, iod. Under this, with transitory semblances of slight im- provement, the aneurism had continued to enlarge. Its upper border now reached the level of the middle of the thyroid cartilage, and its outward extension was not less evident. The right common carotid artery was found to be displaced forwards and to the left of its normal course by the advancing aneurismal swelling, and the pulsation in this vessel was distinctly weaker than that in the left common carotid. On October 15th Tufnell's plan of treatment was begun.