27 PEESIDENT^S ADDRESS. the questions to be settled^ and very fair and courteous in discussion. He was altogether one of the best men I have ever known; full of knowledge, but without one shade of personal vanity ; laborious, but always as if with enjoyment of his work; a patient and industrious collector of facts, and of their illustrations in specimens and drawings, and very cautious in drawing his conclusions from them. He had a remarkable knowledge of languages. He could read nearly every one in which scientific works are published, and he continued to the last a habit of reading some of the best classics. And it is but right to tell that, with all this rare knowledge and laborious devotion to science, those who knew him in his home might oftea have thought that domestic love determined his whole course in life.^ He died in his seventy-ninth year, beloved and regretted by all who knew him well. Dr. Samuel Woodman died at Ramsgate on the 13th September, 1886, in his forty-third year. His death was the result of an attack of typhoid fever, which he was supposed to have contracted while absent from home on a short holiday. He was born in Exeter, in which town his father practised as a surgeon. He was educated at the Exeter Grammar School, and subsequently entered as a pupil at St. Mary's Hospital in London in 1861. After having officiated as House Surgeon at this hospital for the usual time he settled at Ramsgate, in partnership with the late Dr. Webster of that town. Dr. Woodman was a Fellow by examination of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, and a Doctor of Medicine of Durham University, the Doctorate given to practitioners of fifteen years' standing. He was in a large and a good practice. He was much liked, and was very active in other matters besides those connected with the practice of his profession. His bent was towards surgery ; he was a good and bold operator, especially in cases of lithotrity. He was a man of genial manners and a ^ Letter from Sir J. Paget.