404 MULTIPLE GANGRKNE OP THE SKIN pox eruption^ and that the antecedent lesions did not at all resemble it. Case 2.—Mary A. 0—, set. 6 months, was admitted as an out-patient at the Shadwell Hospital on February 27th, 1882. She was vaccinated when two weeks old; there was no evidence of varicella, there were no physical signs in the chest; she had been suckled but was much emaciated. The eruption began in the small of the back, two weeks before she came to the hospital ; it was limited to the trunk, except one small ulcer outside of the left leg below the knee. It was abundant on the buttocks and reached half way up the back, where it was to some extent symmetrical. In the front of the body, on the right side only, there were five ulcers and a few scars ; there were one or two on the head, and many scars from previous lesions in various parts. Those in front were scabbed superficial ulcers half an inch in diameter with a bright red areola; there were a few pustules like small boils which began as minute pustules on an indurated inflamed base, the whole being the size of a No. 3 shot. The treatment consisted of sulphide of calcium inter- nally, and diluted ammonio-chloride of mercury ointment applied to the sores. On March 27th all the ulcers were healed and the child was thriving, but an abscess having formed on the back she was admitted into the hospital, where she died on May 7th, but I have been unable to obtain particulars of the post-mortem. Case 3.—Adelaide S—, ^t. 3 years, was admitted as an out-patient at the Children's Hospital June 25th, 1883. The disease began nine days previously with a bulla half an inch across, then others formed and began to ulcerate. When first seen, there were bullae half an inch across, containing clear serum and without any areola; there were pustules from an eighth to a quarter of an inch across with an areola; superficially ulcerated patches covered with a layer of pus; deep ulcerations, one very deep, on the site of the first bulla, three quarters