OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. 243 that the present complete suppression resulted from the fact that now the right ureter was at last altogether plugged. We discarded as unlikely the hypothesis of the simultaneous plugging of the two ureters with symptoms referred only to the right side_, and also the possibility of the suppres- sion being merely functional and sympathetic with the acute trouble on the right side ; but I have no doubt that we should have paid more attention to the fact that during the previous attack a fair quantity of moderately healthy urine had been passed whilst there was every reason to sup- pose that the right ureter was completely or almost com- pletely plugged. It was therefore decided that if anything were to be done it should consist in cutting down on the right kidneybut that the risk of administering chloroform in what appeared to be an advanced state of uraemia (with convulsive symptoms probably imminent) was too great to allow of an operation which, as we thought_j could at best only prolong life for a short time. At this time I confess that I came over to the diagnosis of strumous kidney, and was thus quite willing to fall in with the general conclusion. We contented ourselves, therefore, with giving hot-air baths, which produced a copious perspiration, with opening the bowels, which were remarkably sluggish, as indeed were all the functions of the body, and with administering copious warm water enemata in the hope of stimulating the action of the kidneys in case the suppression should after all be functional. For nearly a week the suppression was complete, viz. from the Tuesday till the following Monday morning. Daring this time the urgemic sym- ptoms became more and more pronounced and we were expecting momentarily!^the final convulsion. But on Satur- day the 19th, as he lay on his right side, I was able distinctly to feel the left kidney, which seemed to be slightly tender. I therefore punctured it with, an aspirator needle through a small incision in the loin, and, as the autopsy showed, did actually pierce the lowest calyx of the pelvis, eitber on this occasion or on the following morning, when the process was repeated, but no water was drawn