344 RESTORATION OF THE CANAL AFTER REMOVING (Blood-vessels are of course excepted, but I am not aware tliat any serious attempt lias ever been made to suture these witli a view of restoring tbeir lumen.) 2. Our ideal object in operations on the intestine is to restore the status quo ante, that is, to reproduce a tube of normal calibre, with no contractions at the point of suture, and free on its serous surface from any adhesion to parts around which may restrict its normal movements or act as a band under which another loop may become strangulated. 3. Nothing traceable to the surgeon himself should be left behind when the operation is finished which may render the patient liable to a second interference to obviate or remedy its effects. 4. It is necessary in order to obtain rapid and firm union that the two serous surfaces should be applied face to face, in other words, the coats must be turned inwards. A valvular, ring-like projection must thereby necessarily result, surrounding the entire lumen, and narrowing by so much and for so long as it exists the calibre of the gut. Premising the above, it follows that the ideal suture for enteroraphy should accurately approximate and hold in position every part of the apposed surfaces of the gut, not only at the time of suture but also until firm organic union has taken place between the parts. It should not tend to contract the intestine, should not produce permanent adhesions, should leave nothing in the bowel but what may easily pass through any part of it, and, lastly, should remove as it comes away the valvular ring as soon as its purpose has been secured. Can so much be said of any suture at present proposed or in use for this purpose ? Of sutures for the intestine there exist already thirty- four different kinds. But it is not necessary to describe them all in detail, nor should I venture to weary this Society by attempting it. Those members who care to examine them in full I venture to refer to a small paper of mine which appeared in the ^ Medical Chronicle/ September^