OVARIOTOMY. 75 ?5 Ultimate result. Cancerous infiltra- tion of surrounding parts and death in two months Suppression of urine Exhaustion Only lived a month Remains well Remains well Remains well Remains well Exhaustion Remains well. Exhaustion. Immediate result. Recovered Died in 40 hours Died in 4 hours Recovered Recovered Recovered Recovered Recovered Recovered Recovered Recovered Died in a few hours Recovered Died in 12 hours Nature of operative procedure. Portions of cyst removed, remainder sutured to parietes and drained After removing the main part of the left ovary, 1 found its base incorporated w ith tumour of the right ovary, which could not be got out Prolonged attempt to dissect them out and parts removed Cysts broken up and cleared out. Removal impossible Cysts cleared out and masses of papilloma removed Universally adherent, parts peeled away, re- mainder sponged out and drained Firmly bedded among adherent intestines Density of adhesions rendered removal im- possible. Parts removed, cysts cleared out, and incision closed Broken up and partly removed, remains al- lowed to fall back into the pelvis. No drainage Ditto Portions of papilloma and left ovary and tube removed Large portion removed and then the anterior wall of the bladder found to be extensively involved Opened, anterior part removed, remainder sponged out with tincture of iodine, sewn to parietes and drained After removing greater part found that the base involved the uterus State of parts found after the abdominal cavity had been opened. Suppurating dermoid cyst opening into bladder Cancer of both ovaries, of peritoneum, and of lumbar glands Ruptured papillomatous cysts of both ovaries with general infection of peritoneum Cysto-sarcoma involving both ovaries and uterus Papillomatous cysts of both ovaries, universally adherent Thm-walled multilocular cysts on both sides, probably ovarian Suppurating dermoid cyst cleared out, sutured to parietes and drained Multilocular ovarian cyst, which had ruptured many times during ten years into perito- neum Similar case to No. 13 Thin-walled multilocular tumour of right ovary Ruptured papillomatous cyst of right ovary, left ovary and tube papillomatous on sur- face and peritoneum generally so Cancerous mass involving both ovaries, uterus, and bladder Thin walled, possibly broad ligament cyst, universally adherent Cysto-sarcoma of left ovary and body of the uterus iiopipuoQ OS O t^00iO-f(-^c<l O. TpO O CO '!0 Date. Jan., 1881 April, 1882 May, 1882 Aug^|t, Nov, 1882 March, 1883 Oct., 1883 Nov., 1883 June, 1884 Dec, 1884 Jan., 1885 July, 1885 Oct., 1885 Place. Nursing Home Ditto Samar. Hosp. Private house Nursing Home Samar. Hosp. Nursing Home Private house Samar. Hosp. Ditto Private house Samar. Hosp. Ditto Nursing Home 00 OS Or-lOlCO'tlin to C^OC 0» O l-H