SACCULATED AOETIC ANEURISM. 278 ing freely while at his work, but not to excess. At fourteen years of age he had typhoid fever, and he once had a slight attack of gonorrhoea; he had not had syphilis. Five years ago he had pleurisy with effusion on the right side, for which he was tapped. He recovered in two months. Five months ago he noticed a swelling of the front of his right chest which slowly increased. Two months ago a severe cough came on, attended with dark, thick expectoration, and at this time he had pain in the swelling. The cough lasted three weeks, and since then he has noticed that he has been short of breath on exer- tion, and that the swelling has been larger. He has not had any pain either in the chest or down the arm. He has not suffered from palpitation. He has recently been losing flesh, in spite of his appetite remaining good. State on admission to hospital (November 20th, 1886).— The man was stout, florid, with congested facial capillaries, iron-grey hair, prominent suffused eyes, free from pain, and said he felt "quite well.^^ On the front of the right chest was a smooth round swelling, in shape and position like a mammary gland, extending vertically from the second to the fifth rib, and laterally from the right edge of the sternum to the axilla. This swelling was the seat of a forcible expansile and heaving pulsation synchronous with the heart's action. Over it was heard a harsh high-pitched systolic murmur. The second cardiac sound was very loud and accen- tuated. The heart's impulse was heaving and very forcible, one inch outside the left nipple line in the sixth interspace; the cardiac dulness reached up to the third cartilage. There was a loud systolic murmur heard at the apex, and con- ducted into the axilla, and above and outside the apex the second sound, previously clear, was replaced by a coarse diastolic bruit, audible over a very limited area only. The pulse at the left wrist was of good force and volume. On the right side it was smaller in volume, but this was thought to be explained by the presence of a large branch