199 liUPTURE OF TEE BLADDER. had been retained in the bladder was seen to be darkly discoloured. The tenderness and induration in the hypogastrium are less pronounced. Feels very low and hungry. Ordered a simple enema, and a mixture containing chloric ether, spirits of ammonia, and tincture of calumba ; still continuing the pills and the hot fomentations. Is to have chicken for dinner to-morrow. The catheter is no longer to be fixed in the bladder, but to be introduced two or three times daily if patient cannot micturate without it. Vespere : Temperature 101"6°, pulse 96. Bowels acted freely after the enema. Stools normal. Passed urine voluntarily after a little straining. The urine was thick and opaque, being largely charged with pus, and became very ammoniacal on standing. " From this time the notes show an almost uninterrupted progress towards recovery. The catheter was not again required. The amount of pus in the urine, which for several days was large, gradually diminished. The induration behind the hypogastric wall gradually cleared away, and the pain, distension, and tenderness of the abdomen ceased. " On June 26th the urine was acid, and contained neither blood, pus, nor albumen, though there was a slight deposit of mucus. On June 30th he was allowed to get up, and the next day to go into the hospital garden. On July 2nd there was a slight reappearance of pus, but by July 9th the urine was acid, sp. gr. 1015, free of pus and albumen, but contained a slight excess of phosphates. " Quinine mixture was substituted for the alkaline and hyoscyamus mixture. On July 10th the patient left the hospital quite well, and was not again heard of until his return on August 4th, 1886." The conclusions then arrived at were that there had been a wound high up in the urinary bladder so that the organ had preserved some of its power of retaining and expelling urine, and that the wound had been closed by inflammatory adhesion. When readmitted on August 4th, 1886, the man made the remark that he was suffering from the same trouble as that for which he was treated by Mr. Morris seven years before/^ and when seen in the out-patient depart- ment his account of his present illness, and his symptoms, excited the suspicion of ruptured bladder. The following report was made by Mr. Nash, one of the physicians' resident assistants. Present attach.—On Monday, August 2nd, patient was at a ^'beanfeast but states that he only drank three or