158 richtee's hernia or partial enterocele. In no less than twelve fatal cases tliat were examined after deatli it is expressly stated that the lumen of the gut was in part clear. In some cases nearly two thirds of the lumen was patent^ while in other examples no more than a director could be passed by the strangulation. Scarpa^s experiments, as detailed in his work on hernia, showed that when two thirds of the circumference of the ileum was artificially strangulated, the passage of water along the tube was more or less completely arrested by reason of the bending of the bowel, but that when only one third was involved fluid passed easily. In every example in which the description is complete it is shown that the particular part of the bowel-wall in- volved is that most remote from the attachment of the mesentery. In no instance does the mesentery ever fall within the grip of the constricting ring. The mode of formation of Richter's hernia is a matter open to dispute. Many surgeons believe, and the belief is of ancient foundation,-^ that a piece of small intestine becomes adherent over the hernial ring, and that partly from intra-abdominal pressure and partly from pressure of the intestinal contents, the segment of the bowel wall that covers the ring is gradually forced through it. In this way a lateral protrusion is formed, and if at a future date the little diverticulum becomes strangulated, the pheno- mena of this particular rupture are produced. Schmidt^ accepts this theory. He goes further and doubts the existence of a free Richter's hernia, i. e. of one where no adhesion has taken place between the sac and the intestine. While there is good reason for assuming that the theory that underlies Schmidt^s belief is, in part at least, well founded, there is no evidence to show that it can apply to all cases. I can find but few instances in which it was quite clear that the gut was adherent to the sac. In the 1 Riecke, 'Ueber Darmanhangsbriiche/ Berlin, 1841. 2 "Die Unterleibsbriiehe," Pitha und Billroth's 'Handbuch,' Band 3, Abth. 2, Stuttgart, 1878.