266 ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AOKTA. The abdominal wound was closed in the usual manner^ and covered with a dressing of boracic lint^ cotton wool and a roller. The patient rallied well after the operation and for two days his progress continued satisfactory ; the circulation in his lower extremities was unimpeded; he stated decidedly that the pain in his back had disappeared; the wound caused him little or no discomfort^ and he retained nutrient suppositories and peptonised enemata containing brandy, under which his pulse improved, as well as small quan- tities of beef-tea and milk given by the mouth. It was, however, necessary to continue the free employment of morphia in order to control his restlessness. On October 11th he refused food, returned his enemata, developed hallucinations from which he had suffered previous to the operation, became almost uncontrollable in his attempts to get out of bed, and finally began to sink gradually. He died of asthenia on October 13th, five days after the operation, during which time his temperature had never exceeded 100-6° F. The auto]ysy was made thirty-four hours after death ; post-mortem rigidity had passed off, and there were evi- dences of commencing putrefaction in the abdomen, which was moderately distended. The edges of a linear wound extending from the xiphoid cartilage to the umbilicus were maintained in accurate apposition by five deep sutures and were healthy in appearance. The costal cartilages were ossified; on the anterior aspect of the right ventricle was a " milk-patch the size of half-a-crown ; both sides of the heart contained a large amount of mixed clot, a con- siderable proportion of which was pale, firm, and adherent to the endocardium, especially of the valve-cusps. From the right side a fibrinous clot extended up the pulmonary artery as far as its bifurcation. All the valves, as well as the myocardium, were normal, the heart weighing 10| oz. The ascending and transverse aorta and the arteries arising from them were healthy in appearance, but considerable atheromatous change was present in the