376 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. matter was so incoiispicuons as to be scarcely distinguisli- jible from the white ; it appeared to be generally shrunken. It may be noted in passing that this appearance has been reported by Dr. Hadden in one of his cases.^ Microscopical examination.—^-The cord together with portions of the left median and musculo-spiral and of the right anterior crural and plantar nerves and extensor carpi radialis longior muscle were hardened in a 2 per cent, solution of bichromate of ammonium^ and after being placed in spirit for some months were cut with a freezing microtome and stained with various reagents. The results as regards nerves and muscle are seen in the preparations now shown to the Society (see Plates YII and VIII). The cord^ a section of which is also shown, appears to be normal in all its divisions—cervical, dorsal, and lumbar, excepting, perhaps, that to the naked eye the grey matter does present in certain sections something of the shrunken look which was referred to in the report of the post- mortem examination. Under the microscope, however, there is nothing to distinguish it from a cord free from all suspicion of disease, in particular the large cells in the anterior horns appear everywhere healthy. Bight plantar nerve.—-In transverse sections the peri- neurium is seen to be thickened, and there is an increase in the connective-tissue nuclei. The walls of the vessels are also thickened and infiltrated by numbers of round- cells (leucocytes). The nerve-bundles show an increase m the nuclei of the sheaths, and there is a great excess of fine fibrillated connective tissue in the endoneuriuin (fig. ]). Under a high power these appearances are brought out with greater distinctness ; the perineurium is infiltrated with round-cells in parts, some being also scattered throughout the endoneurium. There is scarcely a sound nerve-fibre to be seen, the axis-cylinders having for the most part disappeared, and the medullary substances ^ * Trans. Path. Soc.,' vol. xxxvi, p, 53.