writers' cramp and impaired writing power. 333 Jerye- derness. Joint trouble. Trophic change. Supposed cause. median median Wrist None Sprain of wrist. Fall from horse when 9 years old Was not allowed to throw the cricket ball at school because of liability to strain the wrist. Has pain in front of wrist irrespective of work. Thinks the pain is in one of the tendons. Writes with left hand. median 15 hours engrossing per diem Writing very diificult and tremulous. median very ;ender median Very than. Holds pen between fore- and mid-fingers with thumb flexed into palm. There is an abrasion on radial side of metacarpo- phalangeal joint of right forefinger from pressure of the penholder. Is worse when fatigued and overdone. To blister median nerve. Sleepless. Dyspeptic. Began when he was much worried. median median median R. shoulder R. shoulder creaks Writing Creaking of right shoulder. Urine phosphatic. Much improved in two months by hot baths, Donovan's solution, and a blister to the tender median nerve. In writing the hand is supinated and the right ring finger is flexed. Greatly improved by massage, which caused marked increase in the size of the arm. Writing is stopped by an internal rotation of the thumb. A very nervous subject; dyspeptic. median Jerking of hand. Served eight years in tropics. Three attacks of intermittent fever. Dyspeptic. Gouty ? median median median Tall from horse on to R. hand? Urethral stricture. Foul tongue. Voluntary interosseal movement of right hand very defective. Ordered to blister median nerve and regulate the bowels. Was much improved when seen again on October 10th, 1882. WTien holding pen phalangeal joint of right thumb is re-entrant. Faradisation of flexor long. poll, causes tremor of hand, and of 1st R. D. 1. causes more movement of neighbouring muscles than of the muscle faradised. Tongue furred and tremulous. To blister median and treat dyspepsia. Much improved on October 7th, 1882. History of syphilis. . median very tender Is obliged to raise his elbow before he can write. Ordered to blister right median nerve. . median The electric irritability of right musculo-spiral and ulnar nerves diminished and of right median increased. Ordered to bUster median nerve and to take Donovan's solution. . median . median 1 Dyspeptic. Gouty. A " free liver." To blister median and take saline purgatives. Great improvement. Of studious habits. Has suffered from " nervous exhaustion." Ill- defined weakness of legs as well as arms. To blister median nerve and use galvanic current. Great improvement.