SACCULATED AORTIC ANEURISM. 285 Permission to examine the other organs could not bo obtained. Bemarhs.—In spite of the large size of the aneurism^ of its wide mouth, and of its rapid growth, there was one circumstance that rendered it favorable for treatment, and that was the large sacculated portion well marked off from the tubular portion. Although the first part of the arch of the aorta was dilated, yet the external tumour was a distinct sacculated pouch springing from it. TufnelFs treatment was never fully carried out. The man himself when first he came under treatment could not be made to realise the very serious nature of his ailment, and would not submit to a very rigorous limitation of his diet, and the most explicit and often-repeated directions failed to make him observe the perfect rest that forms so essential a part of this treatment. He was of so excitable a dis- position that not only would he turn about in bed, but do so quickly. It was no matter of surprise therefore that when he became considerably upset by the death of two near neighbours in the ward the aneurism rapidly increased in size. It was evident then that unless some- thing was done which would speedily excite coagulation in the sac, death would quickly ensue, and it was equally evident that our choice was limited to one or other of the means of directly exciting coagulation within the sac. Electrolysis has not met with the success which was at one time anticipated for it, and the urgency of the case seemed to particularly centra-indicate it. It is true that Moore's treatment of aneurism may still be spoken of as in its experimental stage, but the partial success obtained by Dr. Cayley and Mr. Hulke in a case not unlike our own encouraged us to hope that it might prove of benefit to our patient, and at any rate prevent the threatened rupture of the external portion of the aneurism. The result achieved showed that while our expectation was not groundless we had not made sufficient allowance for the danger always attendant upon the sudden coagulation of a large aneurism lying in a bed of loose connective tissue^