31 peesident's address. Association, and Honorary Local Secretary and Treasurer to the Royal Medical Benevolent College. Dr. Andrew settled in Shrewsbury, and soon appears to have devoted himself especially to the treatment of diseases of the eye. He became attached to the institution known as the Shropshire and North Wales Eye and Throat Hospital, a small and very inadequate building, when he was first appointed Surgeon to it, but under his exertions, and with the aid of others, he lived to see a new hospital erected, and completed in 1881, replete with every comfort and with ample accommodation within its walls for the reception of patients. Dr. Andrew died in January of this year. He had been confined to his bed for about nine weeks, his illness arising in the first place from a cold, but ultimately developing into a serious attack ; and although he rallied at intervals very slight hopes of his recovery appear to have been entertained. He contributed to the journals occasionally, and among his writings may be found some ^' Observations on Extirpation of the Lachrymal Gland in Obstruction of the Nasal Duct,'^ " A new method of Extraction of Cataract,^^ and " the Use of the Cautery in Eye Diseases.'^ Br. William Dauheny was elected a Fellow of this Society in 1848. He was born on the 18th of June, 1820, at Wraxhall Lodge, Wiltshire, and was educated at Eugby. He subsequently studied at St. Thomas's Hospital, became a Member of the College of Surgeons in 1843, and a Doctor of Medicine of St. Andrew in 1845. He commenced practice in London, in partnership with the late Mr. Pope, of Manchester Square, but the differences of opinion and character which mark men did not apparently blend harmoniously in this professional alliance. Dr. Daubeny found it desirable for his future prospects and general comfort that he should be able to act independently in his practice, and so severed this professional connection. He then practised for some short time in the neighbourhood of Portman Square, and soon secured a large and good class of patients, with all of whom he was ever a personal