290 ANEURISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. As a contribution to the statistics of this method I offer to the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society the following- report of a case so treated recently under the care of Dr. Cayley and myself in the Middlesex Hospital. The case presents other features of much interest involving questions of diagnosis and of distal ligature, but I inten- tionally exclude the discussion of these on the present occasion, my concern now being solely with the plan under consideration. I will only remark that at the stage of the aneurism in which the patient entered the Middlesex Hospital the supposition of its being innominate and aortic was a reasonable inference from the dulness of the right chest apex ; next, that distal ligature was proposed, but this, and indeed every surgical measure, was firmly and persistently declined by the patient until he re-entered the hospital last February, shortly before his death. On Aug. 19th, 1886, E. B—, set. 31, seaman, a sun- burnt, dark-haired, muscular man, was admitted into the Middlesex Hospital under the care of Dr. Cayley. He had in the root of the neck immediately above the right collar-bone a pulsating expansile swelling which displaced the trachea and larynx to the distance of one inch beyond the middle line. Percussion on the clavicle and over the first intercostal space disclosed dulness of the right chest apex continuous with the swelling apparent in the neck. The expansion of the chest was good; the respiratory and the cardiac sounds were normal. The pulse was 60 ; that at the left was thought weaker than that at the right wrist and slightly retarded. Axillary temperature 97° F. The left pupil was slightly smaller than the right, and this not from synechige. His voice, he said, was weaker than formerly; for this no cause, unless a slight congestion of the laryngeal mucous membrane, was apparent. Previous history.—Thirteen years ago he had had palpi- tation of heart, for which he was treated in the Naval Hospital at Haslar and quite recovered. Two years later he had cholera in Russia. He had once had gonorrhoea but never syphilis. These, he said, were his only illnesses