114 ON THE ACTIVE PEINCIPLE OP CASTOR OIL. with castor oil if one add 25 parts of water to, say, 200 alcohol and 100 of oil, the whole becomes cloudy, but on heating to boiling point it clears up, again becoming cloudy on cooling, and an alcoholic layer rising to the surface. No matter how I varied the proportion of water I never found any difference in the activity of the body dissolved in this alcoholic layer. Now, is it possible that after all there is a tertium quid besides the ricinoleic acid and seeds, or is it the glycerine which causes the aperient effect, the castor oil simply decomposing with sufficient rea- diness to allow the glycerine time to act ? It is perfectly possible, I fancy, but I did not unfortunately think of this till it was too late for me to carry out the experiment, but I hope to do so soon. If it be so it is evident that there is no need of seeking for a resin, as one will never find it. Certainly the appearance of the bowel is such as one would expect from glycerine. There is one thing against this theory, viz. the fact that castor oil injected into the bowel is said to be aperient. This statement is, however, not a very easy one to prove, seeing that the physical nature of the castor oil would cause aperiency. Of course ricinoleate of magnesia would cause aperiency due only to the magnesia, an experiment of no value as regards this question. Seventeen grammes of ricinoleic acid given to a rabbit caused but a very slight aperient effect, corresponding to about eight grammes of the oil itself. Before concluding this I may state that it seemed to me that the castor-oil cake, although a deadly poison, might be made to subserve beneficent purposes. Thus in Italy there remains about one fifth part of the oil in the seeds, in India, where the mode of extraction is cruder, there remains more. It appears to me that if greater heat were used, that is, 212° or even much less, the oil could be better extracted, and as the oil is not always for internal use, this would in general do no harm to the oil, while much of the above waste would be avoided. The heat would render the oil cake harmless. Now, as the cake has rather a pleasant smell and taste, and is full of