Writers* cramp and impaired Writing power. 83l change of muscular irritability combined (32 cases). Joint trouble. Trophic change. R. thumb- nail much furrowed and brittle Supposed cause. Excessive work at a competi- tion draw- ing and domestic trouble Injury Dyspepsia. Came on after con- finement Writing Writing Gout Excessive writing Dyspepsia Over- writing Alcohol Onset sudden, with a " twitching of the fingers." Worse wheH mentally agitated. Special difficulty with a small t at ihe beginning of a word. The right forefinger will not keep on the pen. When he writes witl left hand the rifjht hand is gradually extended and will not keep on the paper. Some loss of electric sensibility in skin of right hand Right median nerve very irritable to faradism. Never could write fast. When 14 had the hand smashed in a mangle In writing phalangeal thumb-joint is forcibly flexed, and the fore- finger slips up tlie penholder. Ordered to faradise the wasted extensors of thumb (the ext. secund. internod. is specially defective in irritability). Writing good. Probably a case of neuritis affecting upper part of brachial plexus, and extending to long thoracic, anterior thoracic and median nerves. ro blister tender nerves. Says the hand is "numb." Dyspeptic. Pain and cramp on ulnar side of hand. Ulnar nerve very tender be- hind olecranon and above wrist. Cured by blistering the nerve and massage. Writing is stopped by forcible cramp-like contraction of the far phalanx of the thumb. Ordered to blister right median and employ massage. The application of faradism is painful in right hand but not in left. To blister right median and take arsenic. Gouty. Had been undergoing a course of massage without benefit (iience the increased irritability of muscles). There is grating felt in the sheath of flexor tendons of middle finger close to head of metacarpal bone. Says that "short hand" tires him more than long hand. Some defective sensation on right side. Very stout, breath alcoholic. Is troubled with " general pulsation" after meals. Veins over front of thorax are too full, but no other evidence of mediastinal growth or heart disease. The thumb "throbs" after writing. Tremor worse in hot weather, "when temperature is over 60° F." Dyspeptic. Improved by blister over median nerve. Massage was of no use. When he writes there is involuntary contraction of mid-flnger. Father was hypochondriacal. A brother epileptic. Sleeps badly. Indulges freely in alcohol,