ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 274 by Keyes.^ Tlie patient^ a woman, set. 42, died about a montli after galvano-puncture had been performed for tlie tliird time, probably of exhaustion from an unsuspected thoracic aneurism. The author honestly states his doubts whether the action of the current had anything to do with the presence of the stratified clot found in the sac, as it was not firmer about the seats of puncture than elsewhere, and did not differ from the clot of other aneurisms in the same person. The less successful galvano-puncture was performed by Felice delF Acqua^ upon an Italian noble- man, but ^'the patient quickly died.^'' The treatment of aneurism by the introduction of foreign bodies into the sac has been only recently discussed before the Society, and its principle has received general accept- ance and approbation.^ Mr. Bryant's opinion that it seems likely to be of use in certain aneurisms in which none of our ordinary methods are applicable, and in which under many circumstances we have only to stand by and wait for the end represented, I think, the feeling of the Society at the discussion and stimulated me to hope for some measure of success in a case presenting so many points of resemblance to Loreta's, although the age and unsatisfactory morale of the patient materially reduced the chances. The operation presented some unforeseen difficulties, upon which Mr. Morris will remark, but these were, on the whole, successfully encountered, and the patient's death was certainly not directly due to the operation, as in the majority of recorded cases of the most feasible alternative, i.e. distal compression. The amount of clotting produced by even so short a length of wire as it was found possible to introduce, the insignificant hemorrhage from, and complete occlusion of the punctures, the absence of peritonitis or other abdominal complications, despite the unruly conduct of the patient, all to my mind justify the procedure ^ ' New York Medical Journal,' vol. xiv, p. 569, et seq. 2 ' Gazetia Medica Italiana Lombardia,' No. 28, 1870, p. 217. " ' Proceedings Eoy. Med. and Chirurgical Soc.,' New Series, vol. ii, No. 2.