SACCULATED AORTIC ANEURISM. 281 tion, wlien very faint and with feeble cardiac impulse, tliere was hardly any pulsation to be detected in the mamma-like projection of the aneurism. Two hours later he had recovered his ususl appearance and was warm and comfortable save for some shooting, throb- bing pains in the back of the shoulder. There was very slight oozing of blood from the punctures. Pulse 96, respirations 32. He was ordered gr. x of chloral and gr. XV of bromide of potassium at once and to be repeated as required. He failed to get sleep in the night, and was very uncomfortable owing to his constrained position in bed and to numbness in the shoulder and arm. The little pad of lint had been stained through by blood but was quite dry. The tumour was much harder than before, and inelastic; the pulsation was more of a heav- ing character than before. The radial pulse was of fair force and volume. He was rather restless through the day, and in the evening was sick once, being troubled with flatulence. January 13th.—After the injection of a quarter of a grain of morphia, patient had a quiet night; his pulse was some- what bounding, 96 ; respirations 24. There was now a bruise of bluish-yellow colour, extending over the upper part of the swelling. The skin here was glazed but not red. The cardiac phenomena were unchanged, but the second sound was feeble over the aneurism, and the systolic bruit was less marked. The bowels were confined, and a dose of compound senna draught was given, which had the desired effect. The pad of lint was removed in the afternoon because it was soaked through, and there was noticed a considerable and continuous oozing of slightly blood-stained serum from the second puncture. There was slight tenderness over the punctures, the swelling was firm and the pulsation felt in it seemed to be deep. The discharge of blood-stained serum increased and became very troublesome. 14th.—Pulse less full and less bounding in character ; patient quiet, free from pain in the chest. Discharge of