28 peesident's address. 2 Letter from Dr. Broadbent. thorough optimist, beh"eving in his friends as well as in himself, and taking the cheery view of things in general, in which must also be included the prospects of his patients.^ He was Consulting Surgeon to the Ramsgate and St. Lawrence Royal Dispensary, and Surgeon to the Board of Trade for Ramsgate Harbour. He was the trusted adviser of the late Sir Moses Montefiore ; and he had established for himself locally a considerable professional reputation. He was also a Jus- tice of the Peace for the Cinque Ports' division of Kent. One who knew him well has favoured me with the follow- ing account of him : ^' Dr. Woodman was a very able man, honest, straightforward, and manly, and at the same time modest and unselfish; altogether a most attractive char- acter."2 As medical adviser to the late Sir Moses Montefiore he may be said to have gained a well-deserved credit. His constant attendance during the last few days of his patient's life was the admiration of both relatives and friends, and was undoubtedly a severe strain on himself. But during the recent illnesses of his well-known patient, when a large public daily looked for bulletins as to the condition of the good old man, it was Dr. Woodman's constant endeavour not to have any allusion made to his name in the hourly telegrams and reports which were most widely solicited and dispatched ; a high sense of honour and a refined feeling in regard to professional propriety which might not be inappropriately taken as a gaide under all similar circum- stances. About a month previous to his death Dr. Woodman pro- ceeded to the Continent with the intention of visiting Switzerland, but at Nuremberg he was not well and at once returned to Ramsgate with the commencing symptoms of the attack of typhoid to which allusion has already been made. On reaching home the nature of his malady was at once detected by his brother-in-law, Mr. Raven, and under his ' Letter from Mr. Raven, Dr. Woodmau's brother-in-law.