47 OVARIOTOMY. three cases have a moderate degree of fever ; ten have considerable fever; four have high fever ; and only one hyperpyrexia. I have appended to the tables a careful abstract of the temperature columns, which shows at a glance the number of cases reaching their highest at each two tenths of a degree. Passing now to the column for special treatment, and specially interesting features in the cases^ we find that in about twenty-five cases some cooling method was adopted ; either pounded ice tied up in a piece of mackintosh and applied to the head, or the coil ice-water cap, which I had the honour to bring to the notice of the Society with the record of my first twenty ovariotomies ;^ or a partial or complete cold pack. There is one case of abnormally low temperature with complete recovery; and there are a few cases of abnormally rapid pulse, i. e. of a pulse altogether out of proportion to the temperature. There are also a few cases in which chest complications, such as bronchitis, broncho-pneumonia, &c., are responsible for unusual eleva- tions of temperature. By far the commonest causes of any rise above the sub- febrile temperatures are the on-coming of metrostaxis or menstruation, and the curious eruption of sudamina known as " the sweat rash ; this is directly responsible for the only case of hyperpyrexia in the series, No. 196 in the Tables. Either condition will often give rise to decided elevation of temperature, and if they happen to be com- bined in the same patient the fever may run high, then the metrostaxis is checked, and more serious complications may arise. I have used the drainage-tube very little, but am certain that in some cases it is valuable, and I am inclined to think, from recent experience, that had I used it a little oftener the temperatures would have been lower in some ' Twenty-five Cases of Ovariotomy, with remarks on the Causes and Treat- ment of the Fever so frequently following the operation/' 'Med. Chir. Trans./ vol. Ix, X877.