340 INTUSSUSCEPTION OP THE into the matter more closely, it is found that the number of actual rectal intussusceptions among the 18 per cent, set down under the heading colic is very small. It is also extremely rare to find intussusception of any kind caused by malignant growths in the wall of any part of the bowel. Polypi are a common cause of the condi- tion, but non-pedunculated new growths very rarely so. I have been surprised at the small number it is possible to collect from home and foreign sources. Mr. Treves, in his work on ' Intestinal Obstruction/ only speaks of having seen two. One of these, treated by my colleague Prof. Heath, is in our museum at University College, the other in the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. After some trouble in searching English and Continental litera- ture, I am only able to collect eight authentic cases in addition to the two just referred to, and the case which is the subject of this paper, making eleven in all. Lich- tenstein mentions four, but rejects one of them (Cruveil- hier's). Another of his references (Quain^s case) I have been unable to verify after search through the whole of the ^ Transactions of the Pathological Society,' in which he states it is to be found. Of the remaining two, one was seen by himself, the other by Knauss. Then there is a case of adenoid new growth of the sigmoid flexure with intussusception recorded by Mr. Durham in ^ Path. Trans.,' vol. xxiii, p. 116, and another of adenoid cancer of the caecum with intussusception by Dr. Greenhow, Ibid., vol. xviii, p. 114. The fact that these last two are the only cases of the kind to be found throughout the whole series of the ^ Path. Trans.,' further attests the rarity of the conjunction of non-polypoid growths with intussusception. The next case I find recorded by Fleiner, in Yirchow's ^ Archiv.' The mass was excised by abdominal section by Czerny, of Heidelberg, and turned out to be an intussusception due to an adenoid carcinoma" of the c^cum. Then two cases are recorded in the ' Progres Medical,' No. 8, 1886^ by Yerneuiljin which the patients, old women^ suffered