WEITEEB^ CKAMP AND IMPAIRED WRITING POWER. 323 ^aralytic (13 cases), jrve- eiliniess. Joint trouble. Trophic diange. Supposed cause. iedian. Inar. I. Iisculo iral None Nails of left hand urow faster than those of right R. hand easily fjets cold and blue I iedian ight S (iedian (iedian t (iedian kfusculo liral rone Congenital fracture of clavicle causing pressure on R. brachial plexus Infantile hemi- plegia? blow on It-ft temple? over-work Seen with Mr.Pye-Smith, of Sheffield. No lead line, but possibly due to lead poisoning. Holds pen with fore phalanx of thumb flexed at right angles, and the lead pencil is marked with notches made by the R. thumbnail. On faradising the extensors ot thumb the meta carpal bone and near phalanx are extended, and the lore phalanx strongly Hexed, »nd at the same time there is quivering of 1st R. D I. Improved somewhat after 10 weeks' use ot galvanic current. Mr. Barker's case (see 'Clin. See. Trans.,' 1886). Tlie lioy was opernted upon. Within a lew months he could write perfectly (the handwriting having previously been tremulous, and accomplished only by effort), the tenderness of nerve-trunks had disappeared, and loss of irritability of R. D. 1. Iiad disappeared also. Has not been well since having smallpox seven years ago. Sligiit con- tracture (hemiplegic?) of right hand. Piialangeal joint of thumb collapses when he tries to write. Numbness of right radial region ot hand. Tenderness over 3rd dorsal vertebra. Suffers from head- ache and depression. A sexual hypochondriac. Hand constantly tends to flex. Voluntary interosseal movement very defective. Probably hemiplegic. Grasps pen very tightly. Tongue furred. Systolic basic murmur. Clumsiness of right hand. Due to congenital right hemiplegia. Always clumsy at fine hand-work as a schoolboy. Tongue deviates to right. Slight contracture of right flexor tendons. Slight athetotic movements of right hand when extended. Heart normal. No history of fits. Had scarlet fever eight years ago. Severe illness as a biiby. Faulty development ot right upper limb Right shoulder droops. Right clavicle ^" shorter than lelt. Right hand smaller than left. Right hand perspires when he writes, and electric sensibility is less in right than left hand, although irrita- bility is equal at the two sides. Three years ago fell from his bicycle, struck his left temporal region, concussed his brain, and suffered from loss of memory for some months. Lately has been working (and writinj;) hard for an examination. Drags right foot a little. Pain on left side of head. Hemiplegic. Has been in India. Gouty history. Knee-jerk better marked on left side than right side Holds pen very tight, and moves whole arm for stroke-making. Hemiplegic? Some wasting, right pectoralis major. Hip disease as a child. Used crutches till he was 13. Now walks with a crutch-handled stick, which has caused bruising and subcuticular haemorrhage on ulnar side of palm. Has a dread of writing in public. Cannot oppose right thumb to base of little flnger without effort. A left-handed man, strong, athletic, over 6 feet high. Measures from mid-sternum to tip ot left coracoid process 8^", to tip of right coracoid process Ts"- Left hand round base ot fingers 8f", right hand 8|". Formerly a clerk, but gave it up because of writing difficulty. Has special difficulty with up-strokes, and always makes a six by means of two curved down-strokes, Broke his left arm when a boy, set. 5. A left-handed bowler and "right-handed bat" at cricket. The 1st and i2nd R. D. I are more irritable than 1st and 2nd L. D. I. Left-handed, even for billiards. Left forearm measures in circum- ference V more than right forearm. Often hears a "click" outer side of right forearm. Slopes his letters the wrong way,\