RELIEVING THE DISTENDED URINARY BLADDER. 215 So far as its causation is concerned, I believe it is the first case of the kind recorded. It is interesting as show- ing the remarkable relief afforded by clearing out the !! urine which has escaped from the bladder into the pelvic I cellular tissue, even in the case of a patient who was apparently moribund. Considering the great tenacity for life exhibited by this man, I have very little doubt that, could I have operated a few hours after the rupture occurred, the case would have probably terminated in recovery. Case 2, I believe, was an instance of the escape of a jjifew drops of decomposing urine into the cellular tissue i around the bladder wound, resulting in inflammation and sloughing, fortunately somewhat limited in extent. I In the other cases mentioned, it is not unreasonable, I 'i think, to suppose that the temporary pain and rigidity , may have been accounted for by the passage of the needle j over the cellular tissue about the puncture, immediately j after having been steeped in foul urine. A careful consideration of the cases described in this paper, and the importance, in my opinion, of the points mentioned in connection with the objections to producing a wound in the diseased bladder walls, without effecting i an immediate and decided relief of tension, as well as the obvious risk which may occur in the withdrawal of a foul needle through healthy perivesical cellular tissue, lead me I to submit the following conclusions : I 1. Aspiration of the bladder for the relief of retention of urine is a more serious proceeding than is usually supposed, and can only be resorted to with safety in recent and acute cases in which the bladder walls are presumably healthy. , 2. The operation is absolutely inadmissible in cases of I long-standing stricture with chronic difficulty in micturi- ! tion ending in complete retention, the bladder walls being j in such cases hypertrophied, rotten, or otherwise diseased, j the appropriate treatment for these cases, if the stricture I be impassable, being drainage of the bladder through a