TEEATMENT OP EMrYEMA BY PERFLATION. 235 of wounds witliout any applications impeding local venti- lation^ and appends to his book a useful bibliography. Roser (loc. cit.) observed in cases treated by his method a very favorable influence on the abscess walls. In his own words, their shrinking proceeded so rapidly that one might assume that the stimulus of air had a special action in that direction.'^ My own case gives countenance to the same assumption. It may be questioned whether in single empyemas, or in the healing stage of empyemas originally complicated with gangrene or false membrane, the pleural surface presents any true granulations. More probably granula- tions are to be found only in cases of inveterate suppura- tions of the pleura with fistulous opening. If the injection of simple or of medicated air should prove to possess a tendency to change the latter condition into the former, to convert a pus-secreting into a serum-secreting surface, or if in the absence of any inherent virtue attaching to air the general conditions of the treatment could be shown to favour such a result, then the therapeutical value of the method which I advocate would be established. Perflation, in this communication, has been considered exclusively in connection with empyema. Its applicability to other pulmonary conditions and to other regions of the body will suggest itself without need of any remarks from me. The mode and duration of its application might be varied to any extent, as well as the antiseptics used in its performance. These are matters for experimental sur- gery. For my part, even should the usefulness of perfla- tion fall short of larger expectations, I shall feel content if in many cases of empyema it may, in the future, be found as beneficial as in the cases we have related. Dr. Delepine's Report on the small mass removed from the pleural cavity : The microscopical examination shows that the specimen is a small mass of lung tissue. The pleura and subjacent alveoli, with some carbon pigmenta- tion, can be easily recognised, and the alveoli are distended