392 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. results of investigations into tlie condition of tlie peripheral nerves in the subjects of pulmonary tuberculosis, being* led to this by observation of the troubles of sensation and motion, and the trophic changes which they have met with in that disease. The position laid down by them in the paper referred to is that tuberculosis acts like diph- theria, variola, typhus, and enteric fever in occasionally producing a change in the peripheral nervous system, such change consisting of a parenchymatous neuritis, evidenced by segmentation of the myelin, proliferation of the nuclei of the inter-annular segments, disappearance of the axis- cylinders, and atrophy, more or less complete, of the nerve- fibres. They quote a number of cases in detail, collected from various sources, in some of which there were no marked clinical symptoms of nerve disease,—nothing beyond vague and passing pains. In others muscular wasting was a prominent feature ; in a third group sensory troubles, such as pain and cutaneous hypersesthesia or anaesthesia, predominated. In all the cases examined the pathological appearances above enumerated were found in peripheral nerves, and the brain and spinal cord were healthy. In some the clinical features were precisely those of alcoholic paralysis, excepting the mental derangement; but it is worthy of note that in two at least there was a decided history of alcoholism as well. Their conclusions are set forth in the following terms : In the course of tuberculosis, just as in the course of other infectious maladies, it is not uncommon for the peripheral nerves to become the seat of parenchymatous alterations, presenting the histological characters of in- flammations called degenerative. 2. These depend on an inflammation in the nerve itself, and not on a pre-existing lesion of the brain or spinal cord, and are found in subjects whose nervous centres and spinal roots are in a condition of complete integrity. ^' 3. They are indifferently found in sensory, motor, and mixed nerves. They are equally seated in the cranial