241 OBSTRUCTION OF ONE URETER BY A CALCULUS. This part of the case may now be summarised by saying that all the symptoms were at once relieved; the nausea disappeared and the appetite returned ; the local pain went away, but some remained for a short time in the groin, preventing the patient from extending his hip, the temperature sank at once to normal, and only once or twice rose above 99° F. after this, these slight rises being, curiously enough, sometimes associated with a very temporary increase in the amount of albumen in the urine ; this, however, gradually fell to about and the pus steadily diminished in amount, but the bacteria were always present, notwithstanding the administration of quinine, benzoic acid, and other drugs supposed to be bactericidal. He left his bed about August 10th and went into the country about August 16th, at this time complaining only of an occasional slight pain at the tip of the penis after micturition, but principally when the urine happened to be particularly thick. From this time forward the patient much improved and became as well as he had ever been in recent years, and in fact his weight was more than it had been for a long time. But though between 18th August, 1884, and December, 1885, he was able to return to his practice, and kept in fair general health, he was always thin and pale, and had much of the aspect of a patient suffering from tubercular disease, though repeated examination failed to discover any evidence of the presence of this condition. He had occasional attacks of colic, always situated on the right side, accompanied generally with some rise of temperature and always with sickness and a temporary clearance of the urine, followed by a discharge of pus when the sym- ptoms abated. These attacks were often preceded by an inability to hold his water, or rather by a frequent and irresistible though painless necessity to micturate, lasting for some days before the onset of acute pain. But for long periods he was quite free from any renal symptoms, except that the urine, though scanty, always contained pus and masses of the minute organisms before referred to, VOL. LXX. 16