RUPTURE OF THE BLADDER. 196 this : Intra-peritoneal rupture is necessarily fatal, because the escape of urine into the peritoneal cavity always excites fatal peritonitis ; if, therefore, a patient who has suffered an injury which is supposed to have caused an intra-peritoneal rupture of the bladder recovers, the dia- gnosis must have been erroneous.'^ This case will, I think, be a satisfactory refutation of such an argument, for we have evidence that the peri- tonitis which followed the original injury was recovered from j and there can be no reasonable doubt entertained from the appearances after death, that an intraperitoneal rupture was caused by the injury. Whether the peritonitis after the original injury was due to extravasation of urine, or to the violence of the injury, I will not here discuss. I will merely remark, in reference to this question, that there are good reasons for the opinion that healthy urine may occupy the peritoneal cavity without exciting peritonitis. As the case presented itself on the first occasion it was published in the ' Medical Times and Gazette' of 1879 (vol. ii, p. 603, et seq.) as one of ruptured bladder; but in order to give here a concise and connected account of the whole case I will quote a portion of that report. "On Friday, June 6th, 1879, William H—, set. 39, a spare man of middle height, was admitted into Brodrip Ward of the Middlesex Hospital under my charge. He stated that he was an upholsterer, and that on Wednesday. June 4th, he was drinking in a public house, when some difference arose between him and another man, which they thought they ought to settle by wrestling. The patient was thrown with much force, and whilst lying with his back on the ground his opponent knelt with both knees upon the lower part of his abdomen. William H—seems to have lost consciousness for a little time, but on * coming to' he with much difficulty walked home and went to bed, taking over an hour to do the distance, which is about one mile. He tried several times to pass water, and could not; but within an hour or two after getting into bed he voided a small quantity of blood. He was visited by a doctor twice during the night and the next day, who ordered hot fomentations to the abdomen, and effervescing draughts to check sickness, and recommended his removal to the hospital. The patient stated that prior to the injury