THE CURE OF POPLITEAL ANEURISM. 145 pulsation, most plainly felt on the inner side. This was almost completely stopped by pressure on the femoral above. The man was kept at rest for some months with the limb bandaged and firm pressure over the tumour. On three occasions Esmarch's bandage was applied so as to control the circulation in the limb, for from half an hour to an hour. But no perceptible effect was thereby produced on the aneurism. On August 6th I cut down on the popliteal artery between the opening in the adductor magnus and the tumour. The artery which was raised by the tumour and comparatively superficial, came readily into view. It appeared healthy, hardly diminished in size, and pulsa- ting with almost normal force. It was tied about two inches above the point where it joined the surface of the sac, by a catgut ligature in two places, and divided between them. No other artery could be seen in relation to the sac. All pulsation in the tumour immediately ceased and never returned. The wound healed through- out by the first intention. The tumour rapidly subsided, and when the man left the hospital a month afterwards, it was greatly reduced. He has not been since seen. Other cases similar to this can be produced, in which, while ligature of the artery at the distance of Scarpa's triangle failed to effect a cure by not sufficiently restraining the current through the sac, the aneurism was forthwith controlled and cured when the artery was subsequently tied much closer to it. And, in view of the patency of the artery below, after ligature in Scarpa's triangle, I would suggest that when this operation fails to cure a popliteal aneurism, in the absence of any special objection, the artery should be tied lower down; if practicable, in the upper part of the popliteal space, so as to be below the anastomotica magna. This may make all the differ- ence, as in the following case : A man, est. 48, was admitted into St. Bartholomew's Hospital under the care of Mr. Smith in October, 1881, with a popliteal aneurism. Fifteen months previously he VOL. LXX. 10