226 TREATMENT OF EMPYEMA BY PERFLATION. oozing o£ discharge it was necessary to renew tlie dress- ings tlie same evening. On tlie 13tli breathing was audible over the upper part of the lung, especially at the back; the discharge was moderate in amount. On the 14th the discharge was rather foul but not abundant; two short tubes with flanges were substituted for the single long tube. On the 15th (being the fourth day from the date of the operation)^ perflation of the chest with carbolized air was performed with the help of a Richardson's bellows^ and of a wash- bottle containing 10 per cent, solution of carbolic acid in water. Care was taken that the air, delivered into the chest through the anterior wound by an india-rubber tube, should not escape anteriorly^ but issue through the 'poste- rior orifice. A few seconds after the beginning of perflation the posterior opening, which in the recumbent posture of the patient was the most dependent part of the chest, became blocked, and its lips bulged outwards, causing slight pain. In another moment, under the influence of rising pressure, a solid substance was forced through the aperture ; this was followed by a large mass of shreddy false membrane and by upwards of one ounce of foetid pus. The pain immediately subsided, as well as the slight cough which had been set up at first.^ Ventilation was kept up for fifteen minutes, but nothing further was discharged. The carbolized spray had played on the wounds throughout and the same kind of dressing was reapplied. (A few days later, finding that the skin had become irritable and scattered with red spots, Mr. Benham dusted the surfaces with a powder consisting of oxide of zinc and boracic acid.) The temperature, which for the last three days had returned to normal degrees, did not rise, and the patient spent a com- fortable night. The solid lump was found on inspection to be a wedge of whitish-grey, solidified and necrosed pulmonary substance, which measured 2 centimetres by 1*4 and by 0*9, in its longest diameters. On June 16th was ^ Cough was not observed at subsequent dressings in this case.