writers' cramp and impaired writing power. 329 Joint trouble. Ti'opliic change. Supposed No No Sprained wrist from a fall six years ago A sprain and writing Writing Playing violin R. carpus R. thumb Near pha- langeal of R. mid- finger R. shoulder creaks Phalangeal enlarged Carpus Nail of R. forefinger pitted Crop of moles on R. arm and hchenous rash on R forearm None No Over- writing "Writing against time Writing ? Writing Fall from horse Sunstroke in 1869 Occasional fibrillary tremor in ball of right thumb. Not improved by massage. Writing, &c., bad. Cannot keep wrist on the desk. Is scored by the actual cautery on either side of the spine which was applied some years ago. Derived no benefit from a seven weeks' course of mas- sage. Ordered to faradise 1st and 2nd R. D. I. systematically. Some tenderness of cervico-dorsal vertebree. Occasional jerking of the scapula? Ordered massage. Six months later was in statu quo. Strokes made by moving whole hand. Worse when watched; ner- Has used a very fine pen. Passionately fond of the violin and has fatigued 1st R. D. I. by holding the bow. Much improved by massage (September 29th, 1883). Far phalanx of thumb flexes forcibly into the palm when he writes Tremor of right hand during attempts to forcibly extend the rigl thumb. Faradising right ext. sec. internod. poll, causes great pain ; flexion of far phalanx of thumb and tremor. This does not occur on the left side. Right metatarso-phalangeal joint of thumb enlarged, prominence over right carpus Itetween bases of 1st and 2nd metacarpal bones. To paint tlie joints with iodine, hot sea baths, massage. Hand weak. In writing " the thumb bends back and forefinger slips up the pen." Holds pen between thumb and mid-finger. Dyspej tic; nervous. Holds pen between thumb and mid-finger. "When writinsr forefinger becomes extended. Strokes are made by movement of pronatioti and supination. When writing lie supports his hand on the tip of the little finger, which he maintains rigidly abducted. Excessive writing Nervous and melancholic. Magazine writer. Never could write well. Forefingers of both hands crooked and everted towards radial border. Pain in cervical spine. Carpal bones prominent on the back of both wrists. Right forefinger slips up the penholder. "Writes with the hand and the thumb cannot be abducted. In 1876 had to take eight months' rest on account of " neivous pros- tration." Right median nerve shows lessened irritability to fara- dism. Temperate in all things. Has pain in back and limbs.