381 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. fatty and of a pale fawn colour; the kidneys large, with swollen cortex and showing fatty striee. In this case also the brain and its membranes presented no obvious appearance of disease. The spinal cord on section seemed somewhat atrophied in the central grey matter, but no other changes were noted. The cord, together with portions of several nerves from the right side of the body, and of the right extensor com- munis digitorum, were hardened in solution of bichromate of ammonium for five weeks, and examined in the same way as were those of the previous case. Microscopic examination.—The cord here too may be described as normal, although it does not present such a typically healthy appearance as was found in the other. The ganglion cells are fewer in parts, most of them are shrunken, numbers have dropped out altogether, leaving holes in the section; and of those which remain, the branching processes are less clearly defined. These appearances, so far as they deviate from the strictly normal type, are probably due to the preparation of the cord for cutting having been less successful than in the other case. It should also be noted that the blood- vessels are larger and more numerous than usual. Bight anterior crural nerve.—The chief noteworthy appearance in transverse section is the large number of the nuclei of the nerve sheaths, and of large round-cells scattered through the endoneurium, and infiltrating the walls of the vessels. Roughly speaking, about half of the nerve-fibres appear normal ; the rest present a cloudy or granular appearance of the nerve substance. There is no increase in the connective tissue. In longitudinal section some segmentation of the myelin is apparent, but it is not a strongly marked feature. Bight anterior tibial nerve.—Here, on the other hand, the segmentation of the myelin is the most striking feature; there is not a souad fibre to be seen in the specimens examined (fig. 6). Bight musculo-sjjiral nerve,—-In transverse section some