298 ANEURISM AT THE ROOT OF THE NECK. was nearly evenly distributed througli the cavity and tliat the formation of firm clot was less than might have been expected from the distinctly greater firmness of the aneurism noticed towards the close of the operation (and during the first few days afterwards). It is possible that this illusion was produced by the support afforded by the wire to the wall of the cavity and by the contraction con- sequent on the lessening of tension by the loss of blood through the cannula. Whilst I may not claim that the introduction of the wire attained the measure of success which my earlier case had led me to hope, I think that I may at least assert that it proved innocuous, and that its failure here should not weigh against its further trial in suitable circumstances. JRemarlis. — Scope of wire, method, &c. : From my present standpoint I would restrict the application of that which may be termed the induction of clotting by mechanical entanglement—for shortness I shall speak of it as the wire-method—to those classes of cases in which either through the situation of an aneurism, or in conse- sequence of its very advanced stage, or upon both these grounds, pressure and ligation in their several modifi- cations are inapplicable, and where the plan of treatment known as TufnelPs has failed or cannot be practised. For such cases the wire-method will, I suggest, favor- ably compare with the injection of chemical coagulants into the sac, with the injection of constringents (e. g. ergotine) into the tissues outside the sac ; and with galvano-puncture. It is not my intention to reopen a discussion of the rela- tive merits of these latter methods. To the wire-method it is objected that it exposes the patient to very great danger from embolism and from septic infection, and also from endarteritis set up by friction of the wire against the inner surface of the sac. To these objections it may be replied that in the truly desperate circumstances incidental to the advanced stage of a large aneurism some danger may well be faced. The probability of the occurrence of embolism will be largely dependent on the size and direct-