ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE FAUCES. 103 the patients being six and eight years old respectively, one by Wendt, who found a small tubercular ulcer on the pharyngeal tonsil of an infant nine months old (we are doubtful whether this case ought really to be included), and one by Isambert^ in a child of four and a half years. The first symptom, and often a very distressing one, is pain in the throat accompanied by more or less of dys- phagia. On inspection of the fauces the greyish-white or yellowish punctiform speckled appearance, which we have endeavoured to describe above, will be seen, and is highly characteristic of the disease, though, owing to the large quantity of viscid secretion which so often covers the fauces in these cases, it is frequently difiicult to establish its existence. In the course of a very few days these spots enlarge, coalesce, and break down to form small rounded ulcers, with the mucou^ membrane surrounding them swollen and sometimes congested. The edges of the ulcers are irregular, the bases have a caseous aspect, and they are surrounded by nodules in various stages of development preparatory to breaking down into ulcers. Eventually the ulcers coalesce to form one extensive raw surface, still covered with the viscid secretion already referred to. The disease appears not to spread into the oesophagus, but in one of the unrecorded Great Ormond Street cases mention is made of an ulcer in the oesophagus. The larynx does not often escape, and when it does, this is probably owing to the rapidity with which the disease has proved fatal. In our own cases and in others the onset of the laryngeal affection was marked by aphonia. It is not usual for the larynx to be extensively involved, and Frankel notices that in none of his cases was any perichrondritis present. A nasal quality of voice from the impaired action of some of the palatal muscles is al- most the rule, and pain in the ear from implication of the Eustachian tube is very common, as has been pointed out by Traube and Barth, but Frankel having failed to re- cognise any lesion of the Eustachian tube with the 1 ♦ Bull, de la Soc. Med. des H6p. de Paris,' 1876.