ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE FAUCES. 95 The glands in the neck proved to be hardly,, if at all^ enlarged, and none were caseous. On examining the fauces and larynx very extensive, but superficial, ulceration was found affecting the posterior or nasal aspect of the soft palate, spreading down and around the pharynx ; the anterior aspect of the uvula and soft palate was in a similar state. The tonsils were not enlarged or in any way affected; the ulceration did not extend into the oesophagus. The epiglottis was greatly thickened, the lining mem- brane on its inner aspect as well as that of the whole larynx showing a very acute, but quite superficial, puncti- form ulceration ; the lining membrane of the trachea was very deeply injected. The drawing on Plate III shows the situation of the lesions well. In the specimen itself the effects of the spirit render it difficult to recognise the changes which we have endeavoured to describe. There were general pleural adhesions over both lungs, those on the left side appearing to be of the longer stand- ing. Both lungs were almost solid throughout from abundant deposits of closely aggregated tubercles, the lower lobes being the least affected; the upper lobe on the left side had already broken down in places into small cavities. The heart and pericardium were natural. The tracheal and bronchial glands were enlarged but not caseous. A few very early tubercles were found in the capsule of the spleen ; the liver and kidneys were normal. The ileum was opened just above the caecum and found to be ulcerated. Dr. F. W. Mott has been kind enough to examine a portion of the ulcerated pharynx for us and has given us the subjoined report : Under a low power (100 diameters) the sections, stained with logwood and mounted in oil of cloves and Canada balsam, presented the following appearances : A round-celled infiltration throughout the mucous and submucous tissues, and in- volving the superficial layers of the muscle to a slight degree. The round cells are especially abundant near the surface, and are collected into little aggregations