LESION OP SYPHILIS IN WOMEN. 191 14th.—Excoriations have disappeared and also the eruption. She did not again come under observation. In this case the patient was under observation several times in hospital during the seven months preceding the appearance of the sores, and was under periodical examination outside during that time. She did not exhibit any sign of syphilis. The incubation period was well marked, and must have exceeded thirty-eight days, as that was the period she remained in hospital before the sores developed. The characters of the sores were typical, with the exception of the absence of induration and thickening. There being two enlarged inguinal glands, probably from irritation of a non-specific kind on admission, preventing the time of their affection by the syphilitic poison being fixed. The outbreak of early symptoms was typical. The subsequent course of the disease did not come under observation. Case 3.—A. T—, set. 18. Fifth admission. She was under observation in hospital during the under-mentioned periods :—1st admission, January 6th to 16th, 1880, for gonorrhoea only; 2nd admission, February 23rd to March 16th, 1880, for gonorrhoea only; 3rd admission, April 14th to May 1st, 1880, for gonorrhcea and a pus-discharging sore; 4th admission, May 28th to June 8th, 1880, for gonorrhoea. During these admissions she presented no signs of syphilis. June 18th, 1880 (fifth admission).—On account of menses not examined until 24th. There was then a small sore, with suppurating surface and red- ness around it, in the left labio-crural hollow. July 1st.—The sore has spread and has now become larger, with a smooth, glazed-looking surface, scarcely secreting at all, now considered syphilitic. There is no induration about it, but there is a distinct gland in corresponding groin. 20th.—Sore has nearly healed over; gland has become large. 31st.—Sore is healed; there has been no thickening throughout. August 20th.—The site of the sore has broken out afresh; the enlarged gland remains; a copious syphilitic exanthem has appeared over the back. 31st.—Mucous patches have appeared on tonsils. September 11th.—Signs of disease have all subsided except that the maculae have not quite disappeared. Recurrence of macular eruption, patches on tonsils, and papular infiltration on labium followed two months after, and during the next two years there were repeated outbreaks of syphilitic symptoms. In this case the antecedents had been observed for five months during which she was several times in hospital, free from all signs of syphilis, and under regular medical examination during the intervals. The sore at first presented signs not usually characteristic of syphilis, but later on assumed typical appearances, lacking only induration, which never occurred—the former a very frequent occurrence. There was typical enlargement and induration of an inguinal gland. The outbreak of constitutional symptoms was typical. The subsequent course of the disease was regular.