writers' cramp and impaired writing power. 805 generally acknowledged to point to lesions of the nerve centres. Tlie most important objective symptoms observed in tbis group were (in addition to writing difi&culty)— (ft) Tenderness of one or other of the nerves of the arm. (6) Changed faradic irritability of muscles, (c) Tremor. The presence of nerve-tenderness is frequently recorded in my previous series, but it was not so systematically looked for as it has been in the cases of the present series. My observations on cases of writing difficulty, extend over a period of sixteen years, and it must be remembered that in tbe earlier years I was not alive to the importance and frequency of nerve-tendiBrness as a symptom. I believe, however, that in all the cases of the present series nerve-tenderness has been searched for. The discovery of nerve-tenderness requires care and method, and exact comparison of the relative tenderness of the corresponding nerves of either arm. The best method of procedure is, I believe, as follows : The patient stands facing the observer with the arms bare ; he is then requested to rest his hands with the palms upwards on the shoulders of the observer ; the arms must really rest on the shoulders, and be without muscular effort of any kind. To test the tenderness of the median nerves, the observer must cross his hands, and, grasping the patient's elbows, exert pressure with the pulp of either thumb just to the inside of the biceps tendon. The pressure on either side is made simultaneously, and if one median nerve be more tender than the other, this becomes clearly manifest, indeed, in well-marked cases the patient will shriek out or writhe under a pressure on the one side, which causes him no discomfort on the other. I think there is no difficulty in arriving at a just conclusion as to the relative tenderness of the median nerves. To test the musculo-spiral nerves the observer's hands need not be crossed. He must grasp the lower ends of VOL. LXX. 20