171 LESION OP SYPHILIS IN WOMEN. absence from true syphilitic primary sores, how far it is an essential character to such sores, and its value as a diagnostic sign. In dealing with cases met with in the class of women whence these are derived there is difficulty in establish- ing the authenticity of cases, in being sure that the sore observed is really the primary sore, and the general sym- ptoms the first outbreak of such, and not a recrudescence of symptoms in already syphilised patients ; hence, out of the large number of admissions only a relatively small number of primary sores are forthcoming which may be relied on as well authenticated, many probably authentic but open to doubt being omitted. The authenticity of cases here given is based on, first, the known antecedents of the patients, a large proportion having come into hospital several times for gonorrhoea before contracting syphilis, a common event with young girls commencing a life of prostitution, and their total freedom from all signs of syphilis during those admissions. Next, the occur- rence of a sore followed by development of typical general symptoms, the latter marking the true nature of the sore, the diagnosis not resting on the characters of the sore. Lastly, the subsequent course of the case being marked by repeated admissions into hospital for recurrences of syphilitic symptoms mainly of the nature of mucous patches and tubercles to which women, and especiall}/" this class of women, are so liable, contrasting thus with the known freedom of the patients from syphilis before the occurrence of the sore. Seventy-one cases have been selected. Of these no less than twenty-six developed the primary lesion whilst under detention in hospital at periods varying from four to forty-one days after admission, affording further proof of their true nature by having passed through incubation periods, and all being followed by typical outbreaks of general symptoms. These seventy-one cases have been tabulated, the characters and courses of the sores being briefly given. The table is appended (Table A).