ANEURISM OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 267 descending thoracic aorta, increasing in amount and intensity from above downwards. There was marked emphysema of the anterior portions of the upper lobe of both lungs and of the anterior edge of both lower lobes with congestion, oedema, and subpleural ecchymoses in their posterior portion. On opening the abdomen there was found to be strictly localised, recent, adhesive peritonitis connecting the parietal peritoneum corresponding to the operative wound with the left lobe of the liver, the small omentum, the anterior surface of the stomach and transverse colon, and the great omentum, which latter was very short. The stomach was somewhat dragged downwards by these adhesions, and a mass, considered to be an aneurismal sac containing clot, could be felt above its lesser curvature, but the seats of puncture could not be distinguished. The sac was more easily reached by turning up the trans- verse colon with its mesentery and was found to lie chiefly to the left of the middle line, extending as far as, and displacing the left kidney outwards, on the inner aspect of the upper portion of which it made a deep indentation. The pancreas lay across, and was arched forwards by, the aneurism, but neither it nor any other of the viscera were firmly adherent to the sac. The left renal artery, how- ever, coursed for nearly an inch at its origin in the thick- ness of the retro-peritoneal tissue reinforcing the sac and the corresponding vein, which ran transversely across the sac near its centre, seemed slightly compressed from behind forwards. The absence of firm adhesion between the sac and the viscera was considered as evidence in favour of its rapid extension. The stomach was dilated and contained about an im- perial pint of thick fluid; it and the intestines, which were empty, showed no sign of disease. The liver, spleen, and kidneys were healthy. These and the hollow viscera having been removed, the more intimate relations of the aneurism were investigated. The fibres of the left crus of the diaphragm above, and of the psoas muscle on