98 ACUTE TUBERCULAE ULCERATION OF THE FAUCES. transparent granulations in the left Sylvian fissure. There was pus in the internal ear^, and some caries of bone. There were no tubercles in the choroids. Case 3. John R. M—, aet. 6 years 3 months^ was admitted into the Hospital for Sick Children on July 1st, 1881, under the care of Dr. Cheadle, by whose kind per- mission we are enabled to report the case. His history was that, two months previously a lump had appeared under his chin, and that this had been opened at one of the general hospitals, and had been discharging ever since ; other lumps had appeared in his neck and under the jaw soon afterwards, and had continued to increase in size. For two weeks previous to his admission he had been complaining of a sore throat and pain on swallowing, but there had been no return of fluids through his nose, and no alteration in his voice. He had been losing flesh, was feverish, and afc times had a cough. His appetite was stated to be good ; his bowels confined. The parents were healthy, and denied any consumptive taint in their families; they had two other children in good health and had lost five, all, however, under the age of two years. On admission the patient was thin and febrile, his tongue was furred; the tonsils and uvula were swollen, but not red j both here and on the soft palate some minute white specks could be seen ; the glands in his neck were greatly enlarged, and there was a discharging abscess under his chin. Nothing was found in the chest except some coarse rhonchus all over, the abdomen appeared natural, and his urine was normal. A few days after his admission it was noticed that there was distinct irregular abrasion of the mucous mem- brane on the posterior wall of the pharynx, but the ex- amination of the fauces was always attended with great difiiculty, owing to the large amount of viscid secretion that seemed to be constantly there, and to the patient^s inability to open his mouth widely. There was pain on swallowing, and pain in his left ear after drinking quickly.