GOUTY PAROTITIS AND GOUTY ORCHITIS. 219 that the swelling had almost completely disappeared, with relief of the local pain, its disappearance coinciding with an attack of gout in the right knee. I did not see this patient again until the 3rd of July following, when he came to Contrexeville. He told me that the other parotid gland and the left knee had been successively invaded by the gout. At the time of his arrival, except a slight induration of both parotids, no trace remained of his attack beyond a saline taste in the mouth at the beginning of each meal. After a careful examination of the glands I convinced myself that this saline taste was due to the presence of urates in the saliva secreted by the parotids, this after all being one of the epiphenomena of the gouty crisis. Dr. Garrod^s case was very similar, and I hope to see it published in detail. The case observed in Paris by Dr. Rotureau is still more instructive, because it shows the attacks of gout following the same course five times in succession in the same patient at intervals of from one to two years. In this patient the attacks invariably began in one of the parotids, rapidly invading the knee on the opposite side, and then successively the other parotid and the other knee. Judging from these three examples one might be inclined to suppose that the glandular and articular manifestations followed a certain regularly alternating course ; but that this is not always so, the following case will show. Mr. L. E—, set. 54, of robust constitution and sanguine temperament, had suffered from gout and gravel for upwards of twenty years. He has had nephritic colic and attacks of gout, which until 1885 had been clearly articular. He visited Contrexeville in 1885, when he was attended by Dr. Boichox. Two days after his arrival he suffered from an attack of gout in the right wrist followed by a very painful swelling of the parotid region on the same side. After applying the usual external remedies without benefit, Dr. Boichox requested me to see his