246 OBSTEUCTION O^" ONE UEETER BY A CALCULUS. tional for a very considerable time. The stone consisted of uric acid coated by a thin layer of phosphates. I scarcely venture to refer to the dilatation of tlie right ureter because its appearance has been so much clianged by the spirit in which it has been preserved. Nothing will_, I think, be found in tlie specimen to account for this dilatation below the point of obstruction, and yet this was^ at the time of making th.e post-mortem, very marked. It cannot be supposed that tbe presence of the stone liad set this up, for this is opposed to the experience of other cases in which it is found small below the seat of obstruction. I would suggest that it depended apon previous obstruction at the entrance of the ureter into the bladder, either by inflammatory thickening of the mucous membrane, or by the presence of plugs of pus or mucus; in fact that the dilatation occurred before the stone began its descent. It will, I think, be allowed that dilatation of the ureter may occur without obvious mechanical causes. Such instances have been met with post mortem, and as possible examples of the same con- dition observed during life I might mention two cases of pyonephrosis with dilated ureters, on which I have operated by incising the kidney, in which no cause of obstruction is known. In one, a large instrument could be passed for a long distance down an enormously dilated ureter and no distension can be found on vaginal examination. The discharge from the wound in this case has, after three years, ceased, and it is clear that all the secretion from this kidney now finds its exit by the natural channel, or else that the diseased kidney has ceased to secrete urine at all, which is highly improbable. But the point of all others which makes this case note- worthy is the remarkable sympathy exhibited on two occasions between the two kidneys; for it is clear that both in the first and second attacks the sound kidney suffered severely. In the first, the obstruction to the right ureter had clearly been overcome, at least in part, and the remaining lesion consisted practically only in a collection