ALCOHOLIC PAEALYSIS, she lies on her back the arms are folded across the chest, and there is well-marked wrist-drop on both sides with some wasting of the muscles of forearm aud hand. The fingers are flexed, and she cannot fully open the hand ; there is no power of extension of the wrist, but she can move the arms so as to cross them over the chest or put them up to her face. Any manipulation of the arms causes pain. The grasp of the hands is exceedingly feeble. The legs below the knee are wasted and the muscles flabby. She cries out with pain when the muscles or nerve-trunks are pressed upon. She is unable to move either leg to any extent, and all passive movements cause pain. The feet are " dropped there is no oedema. Sensation of the skin of feet and legs is much impaired, and there is neither plantar nor patellar reflex, nor ankle clonus. The feet are cold. She has no difficulty in swallowing and no loss of power in the sphincters, or appearance of bedsore. The urine is acid, sp. gr. 1015, free from albumen and sugar. A note made on November 23rd states that she is in much the same condition as on admission physically, but that her mental state is more confused. She says she wishes to go home, and that she is quite able to get up and walk. She is restless and sleepless at night and very noisy. She requires to be fed, and has occasionally slight difficulty in swallowing. Two days later there were sordes on the lips and teeth. On the same day it is also noted that there are frequent involuntary movements and twitch- ings. The chief respiratory movements are thoracic, but even these are limited. The movements of the diaphragm are reversed, the epigastrium bulging during expiration and receding during inspiration. She has a short cough, the tongue is dry and coated with a brown fur, and she now passes her urine and motions in bed. She is still restless and noisy at night, crying out for beer. The electrical examination was made on this and the next day, the results being as follow : Left arm.—Triceps extensor reacts to moderate, and