RICHTER^S HERNIA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCELB. 155 an attack of coughing—tlie hernia became painful. Violent taxis was at once employed^ and as the swelling was not diminished it was poulticed. The bowels were well opened on the evening of the first day. On the second day vomiting set in. It became frequent, but was never feculent. The abdominal pain increased, and the patient suffered from distressing hiccough. Herniotomy was performed on the fourth day of the strangulation. A Richter^s hernia was found. The lumen of the ileum was not entirely occluded. The sac contained omentum. As the bowel appeared in fair condition it was reduced. For some time the patient did well. On the fifth day after the operation he left his bed—against orders—and walked about the ward in the absence of the nurse. The next day (the sixth) he died suddenly. The autopsy revealed a small perforation in the lately strangulated segment through which faecal extravasation had taken place into the peritoneal cavity. In this instance constipation was absolute after the first day. The vomiting was never feculent. The specimen is in the museum of the College of Surgeons. Case 4. A man, set. 44, admitted August 6th, 1885, with strangulation of a right oblique inguinal hernia. The rupture was of two years standing, was about the size of a walnut, and always reducible. A truss had been worn irregularly. On August 3rd, after exertion, the hernia became painful and irreducible, colic appeared, and in two hours slight vomiting. In three hours the bowels acted. A copious motion was also passed on the next day, but after that the bowels remained confined. On this same day (August 4th) the hernia was reduced after violent taxis lasting thirty minutes. It proved to be a reduction en masse. The patient was sick seven times on this day, and three times on August 5th. On admission the man's condition was good, the tongue clean, the abdomen not distended. The colic and vomit- ing had persisted. The inguinal canal was at once cut down upon. A reduction en masse was discovered. The