PEBSIDENT^S ADDKESfc^. 1 stimulants was not only advantageous, but often necessary, under many surgical conditions. Besides the publication of numerous papers in ' Guy^s Hospital Reports/ two were contributed to our Society, and were printed in the ''Proceedings/* Mr. Cooper Forster was also the author of a work on the ' Surgical Diseases of Children,' a work founded on his large experience at the Hospital for Children and Women in the Waterloo Road, a charity to which he was Surgeon for many years. He lectured on Anatomy at Gruy's Hospital School for some time, and on the death of Mr. Poland he succeeded to the Chair of Surgery, and resigned it on the retirement of Mr. Birkett from the Hospital. ■Cooper Forster served this Society in many offices, and in all faithfully and well. He acted as Surgical Secretary in 1873, 74, and 75. As Treasurer from 1879 to 1884. He served on the Council in 1868-69 ; was Yice-President in 1877-78, and Referee for many years. He had long been a member of the Council of the College of Surgeons, for two years was one of the Vice-Presidents, and in 1884 was elected President of the College. When his period of office terminated in 1885, his seat in the Council also became vacant by lapse of time. Nor did he seek re-election. He now decided to relinquish practice, and his private means enabled him to look forward to the indulgence of those tastes which were congenial to his feelings, without the drawbacks of professional work. He left England in January of last year for the South of France, exchanging the comforts of an English home for the doubtful atmosphere of Continental hotels. While at Nice he began to lose appetite, and as a feeling of weakness continued, he decided to return to London without delay. He travelled without rest. The exposure and the privations of such a journey must have seriously added to the gravity of his case. He arrived at his house in Upper Grosvenor Street on the evening of Wednesday, the 24th of February, in a state of extreme collapse. He was at once seen by his ' * Proceedings/ vol. ii, p. 43, and vol, v, p. 319.