INDUKATION IN THE PlilMAliY not thickened; later they became thickened and increased in size, their surfaces covered with sloughy pultaceous material. 103. On folds of nates three or four vesicles on reddened patches of skin, leaving little excoriations, which became papular and red; later, one formed a raised patch with shining red surface. 43. On folds of nates three vesicles, leaving little excoriations, which later became raised patches of skin with dry surfaces, forming tubercles, which subsided into thickened, brown, scaly marks. 95. In extralabial furrow a large sore, with granular surface, discharg- ing pus, a good deal of thickening in its large base; later, con- gested, sloughy looking; later still irregularly nodulated. 54. Labium minus with sub-inflammatory infiltration, which, breaking down, formed a large ragged sore; later, extensive induration spread around it. 55. Swelling and redness of left labia; on the inner aspect a large irregular surface excoriated and discharging pus; much thicken- ing and enlargement continued after the healing. 56. Redness and swelling of labia extending up to groins, with exten- sive excoriations on former, which slowly healed and left dis- coloured patches. 86. Labium red and swollen, with a large excoriation covered with grey pultaceous material, which left thickening when healed. 34. On folds of nates two sores looking like simple excoriations of the skin, so continuing; but later, on healing, leaving reddish slightly scaly patches; no thickening throughout. 49. On folds of nates two large superficial excoriations; later, forming large reddened patches of the skin, neither perceptibly raised nor thickened. 38. On perinseum a small and superficial sore, without any particular characters; increasing, its surface later became thickened and nodulated; later, raised into a tubercle. 115. On outside of labium a superficial excoriation, soon changing into a raised patch, with nearly dry surface, superficially thickened. 21. On folds of nates two siinple-looking excoriations, which, later, became raised and tubercular in form.