29 president's address. advice Dr. Woodman took to his bed. Haemorrhage with symptoms of perforation of the bowels manifested themselves some two days before his death, and then fatal collapse. He met death," writes his friend, " not bravely merely but cheerfully, trying in this way to help his poor wife ; his mind was clear to the last.'' And thus passed away one who was beloved and respected by all who knew him; one to whom life seemed to be bestowed for all that was right in work, kindliness, and friendship. Mr. Frederick Chapman, of Old Friars, Richmond Green, was well-known as a sound practitioner, and highly esteemed by a large number of his professional brethren. He had practised in the town for many years, and his death occurred there on the 26th of October, 1886, after a painful illness, in his seventy-third year. He was born at Richmond in 1813. He commenced his professional career by being apprenticed to Mr. Taylor, of Kingston; after this he entered the Medical School at University College, and I am informed on excellent authority that he was one of the most distinguished pupils of his year. He commenced practice in Richmond as a partner of the late Mr. James Smith, and continued in the active performance of professional duties for upwards of forty-five years. He took a most active part in the foundation of the Richmond Hospital, of which he held the office of Treasurer and Chairman of Committee, besides taking his place on the Hospital Staff. The latter appointment he resigned in 1882, when he was nominated Consulting Surgeon to the Hospital. This hospital now contains thirty-six beds. Mr. Chapman had always taken the warmest interest in its well-doing, and worked hard for its maintenance; and it was largely due to his exertions that this charity has been placed in its present prominent and useful position. A subscription has been started since Mr. Chapman's death in order to establish a memorial to him in connection with his work for the hospital, and a sum of about £260 has been subscribed for this object. It has been decided that the interest of this money shall be appropriated as a