373 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. tion there is recession of the epigastrium. Over the front of the chest the percussion note is somewhat in- creased in resonance ; breath-sounds are harsh, expiration prolonged, and abundant large and small rales are heard in the mammary and infraclavicular regions on both sides, chiefly during inspiration. Behind the percussion note is clear, but numerous dry and moist sounds are audible. The hearths maximum impulse is found in the third left interspace an inch within the nipple line ; it is feeble but well defined. The area of dulness extends from the upper border of the third cartilage to a point in the fourth left interspace an inch within the nipple. At both apex and base the sounds are shorter than usual, but there are no murmurs audible. The abdomen is soft and flaccid, and marked by linese atrophicae. It recedes during inspiration and is bulged during expiration. The liver reaches to about an inch below the costal margin in the nipple line. The area of splenic dulness is normal. Patient has the delusion that there are several children in the bed with her ; she cries readily, as when she is being examined ; rambles in her talk and is forgetful. Muscular power in both arms is feeble, the muscles of both arm and forearm are wasted, and there is double wrist-drop, the hands hanging like flails. Extension causes pain and there is no power of supination. Superficial and deep reflexes are absent, but sensation is perfect everywhere. The right forearm at its thickest part measures 7| inches and the left 7. The ioterossei of the hands and the muscles of the ball of the thumb are greatly wasted. Round the middle of the biceps the right arm measures 75'', the left 8^". The legs are also much wasted, but sensation is perfect, and there is no oedema. She can draw the legs up and move them slightly, but there is no movement of the feet, which are dropped like the hands. There is no patellar reflex, no plantar reflex, and no ankle clonus, the attempt to produce which seems to cause con- siderable pain. There is also pain on passive movement