123 MULTIPLE EMBOLISM OP ARTEEIES. cerebral artery was occluded at its first bifurcation by a small calcareous embolus, which completely blocked the vessel at this spot. A little farther on another branch of the same vessel was filled with a firm, but not calcareous embolus. At both of these places the vessel was much dilated. A couple of inches beyond the last embolus, another plug had been lodged in a small branch, whilst a fourth embolus was found in a branch of the right anterior cerebral artery. The right lenticular nucleus was in a pulpy condition, and the softening had extended to the white matter in its immediate neighbourhood, and to the convolutions of the island of Reil. Right upper extremity.—In front of the elbow was an oval swelling extending equally above and below the level of the joint. From this the skin was reflected, and all the tissues around the aneurism, together with the brachial, ulnar and radial arteries were removed. On laying open the brachial artery it was found to be in a perfectly natural condition as far as a point about two inches above the elbow-joint. Here it was quite occluded and matted to the surrounding tissues. It was at this spot that the ligatures had been applied. From here to its termination the vessel was filled with blood-clot partly decolorised and adherent to the endothelium. Just above the bifurcation the brachial artery on its anterior surface was perforated by a small hole, not much larger than a pin^s head, blocked by a firm, dark, and closely adherent clot. On the removal of the latter, the whole was found to open directly into the swelling in front of the elbow already mentioned. This swelling was composed of a mass of blood-clot encapsuled merely by the soft tissues of the part condensed by pressure. The clot was firm, but its outer layers only showed a slight trace of lamination. In no part was it limited by an expansion of the artery, or of its sheath. Immediately below the aperture in the brachial artery, the ulnar and radial vessels were found to contain the