218 GOUTY PAROTITIS AND GOUTY ORCHITIS. with, having their seat in the glands and alternating with articular manifestations. In May^ 1881, I had for tlie first time an opportunity of observing an attack of gout localised in tlie parotid gland. I had searched in vain in the various works on the subject for some allusion to this peculiar form, when in August, 1882, Dr. Garrod informed me that he too had had a similar case under his care. In the following year Dr. Rotureau, of Paris, noted another case of gouty parotitis. Lastly, in July, 1885, I myself had a fourth case of this kind under my care at Con- trexeville. The first case which came under my observation was that of M. D—, £et. 68, a patient of Professor Teissier, of Lyons, and a decidedly gouty subject, who had presented, in a more or less marked degree, almost all the symptoms of the uric acid diathesis ; attacks of unmistakable arti- cular gout, nephritic colic, eczema, dyspepsia, and even some amount of glycosuria. Notwithstanding his disin- clination to take care of himself, the nephritic colics had not recurred since 1869, and the attacks of gout had become much less frequent, when in May, 1881, I was called upon to visit M. D—, who at that time resided in Paris. My patient, who had suffered severely from the financial crisis of January, 1881, told me that, having called on his dentist the day before for the purpose of an operation on one of his teeth, he awoke in the night with a very painful swelling at the angle of the jaw on the left side, on a level with the parotid region. I thought that the dental operation had given rise to an abscess, and had recourse to the usual remedies ; but at the end of forty-eight hours there was not the slightest alteration in the appearance of the tumour, and I began to think I was mistaken in my diagnosis. I requested Dr. Bucquoy, of the Hotel Dieu, to give us the benefit of his opinion, and this gentleman thought that the swelling could only be attributed to the dental traumatism, and that surgical in- terference would probably soon prove his opinion to be correct. On returning the next day, however, we found