RELIEVING THE DISTENDED URINARY BLADDER. 213 By October 20t]i all the slough seemed to have come away^ the urine was still passing freely by both wounds^ and the strength was being regained as more nourishment was taken. No great change occurred, although there was some improvement in the general health and a steady decrease in the quantity of urine which came from the supra-pubic wound, until November 4th, when a fluctuating swelling was observed in the left groin. On the 6th there was a distinct change for the worse, the abdominal wound was very foul, and a considerable quantity of faecal matter was seen to come from it. From this date the case became hopeless, the faecal discharge increased in quantity, and all nourishment was refused. He gradually sank and died on the 9 th. Post-mortem examination,—The bladder, contracted to the size of a small hen's egg, lay, denuded of peritoneum, in a cavity below and behind the pubes into which the hypogastric wound directly led. On the anterior aspect of the viscus was a circular orifice rather larger than a shilling, the result of the rupture and sloughing referred to in the notes of the case. The opening from the neck of the bladder into the urethra was patulous and gaping from having lodged the perinseal tube for so long a time. The cavity in which the bladder lay was bounded above and behind by coils of large and small intestine matted together. In a knuckle of the latter, which projected somewhat into the space, were two openings, with sloughy margins, from which faecal matter freely oozed. There was no evidence of peritonitis, old or recent, excepting in the immediate neighbourhood of the walls of the cavity, nor was there any obvious obstruction caused by the matting together of the intestinal coils. On dividing the ureters a little pus exuded from that on the left side. The kidneys were in a condition typical of chronic suppuration in an early stage. The occurrence of this case recalled to my mind one of a less serious kind, having some bearing on the question