184 INDURATION IN THE PRIMARY into one, presenting a sliglitly raised surface; when healing it became elevated and thickened. 77. On labia and fold of nates several small round excoriations, with dry, glazed-looking surfaces; late in their course they became elevated and thickened. 140. On front of labium a roundish, superficial abrasion; later it formed a raised, flattened, circular tubercle, with slightly moist surface. 143. In posterior commissure a round patch of mucous membrane, with red, rather moist surface, neither raised nor thickened; later infiltration in adjacent right labium; none in sore. 165. On labium minus a small, round, reddened spot, becoming slightly raised and thickened; infiltration spread through the labium minus. 20. About vulva several rounded sores, with yellow surfaces, adlierent pultaceous material; surfaces became non-secreting, one became raised on a thickened base. 68. In extralabial furrow a large superficial excoriation, covered with greyish, pultaceous material; becoming a little raised, then again flatter and drier. 107. On labium minus two or three superficial excoriations, with adhe- rent pultaceous material, spreading into one large, circular thickened sore; labium swollen and thickened, 22. Just external to orifice of vagina two sores, with adherent greyish pultaceous material, becoming later a little raised, with non- secreting surfaces; later still thickened. 126. On vaginal wall three superficial sores, with yellow surfaces spreading into one with dryish surface; it became raised and thickened on one side of its margin. 139. On urinary papilla a patch of the mucous membrane, neither raised nor thickened, but covered with grey pultaceous material; becoming afterwards raised and thickened, and later still a hard raised patch. 144. In posterior commissure a superficial sore, with greyish-yellow adherent pultaceous material; a little later thickened; left hard thickening on healing. 148. On outer surfaces of labia four circular sores, level with general surface; surfaces smooth, with a little pultaceous material; thickening soon occurred, and spread through labia. 149. On labium minus a small circular abrasion, level with general surface, with greyish surface; spread and eroded somewhat; later became thickened. 113. On cervix uteri two circular sores, with yellow surfaces; one formed a large raised tubercular elevation, leaving a thickened whitish patch on healing. 114. At entrance to vagina an irregular sore, with yellow surface, spreading and eroding irregularly; never raised nor thickened.