430 CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. extent, affecting only the hands and feet, there was the peculiar feature of inflammation of the toe-nails ; and from four of the toes the nails were shed. In none of the fatal cases had the opiate treatment been tried until within a very short period of death. In my next group I have to mention cases in which we still encounter the combination of a sore mouth and an eruption on the skin ; and with the soreness of the mouth taking precedence in point of time over the skin disease. In these, however, the disease showed itself much more amenable, and in fact on several occasions got well with- out any definite treatment. It also showed a very definite tendency to recurrence after a few years' interval. Two of the patients in this group, which comprises only three, were comparatively young. One was a lady of thirty- five, and the two others were men, aged respectively forty- six and thirty-six. In one of these, which before I saw it had long been treated as syphilis, arsenic effected a definite cure on more than one occasion. In two of them the influence of opium seemed to be very definite, in one a rapid cure taking place under its influence. In none of these three cases was there any approach to the failure of health which occurred in those of the first group. It may possibly be the fact that the age of the patient has something to do with determining the severity of the disease. My next case is one in which sores in the mouth and on the tongue occurred repeatedly in association with an eruption on the skin, and in which the diagnosis presented much difficulty. Mrs. P—, a lady set. 35, living in the country, came under my care on March 2nd, 1880. The surgeon who attended her told me that she had been under his treat- ment for ulcer in the mouth and eruption on the skin for sixteen months. A distinguished physician had been consulted and the case had been pronounced syphilis, but a very long treatment with specifics had failed to cure. I found the tongue^ cheeks, and lips covered with white-