INDEX. 438 A'N'EVmS'M—continued. — POPLITEAL, effect upon the femoral artery of its ligature for the cure of (W. S. Savory) . . 139 AORTA, ANEUEISM of, see Aneurism. AETERIES of the extremities, multiple embolism of, followed by the formation of aneurisms, with remarks on the relations of embolism to aneurism (J. Langton and A. A. Bowlby) . . . . .117 AETERY, EEMORAL, on the effect of its ligature for the cure of popliteal aneurism (W. S. Savory) . . 139 Table of cases in London hospitals in which the femoral artery has been tied in Scarpa's triangle for the cure of popliteal aneurism, 140-1; remarks on the table, 142-3; narration of cases, 144-6; suggestion of tying popliteal instead of femoral, 146-7. ASPIRATOR, on some dangers connected with the use of the, as a means of relieving the distended urinary bladder, with suggestions for the treatment of certain cases of retention of urine (W. H. Bennett) . . .207 Objections to the use of the aspirator, 207-9; narration of two cases of aspiration, 210-14; conclusions, 215-16. BAEKEB, Arthur U. A case of intussusception of the upper end of the rectum due to obstruction by a new growth; excision of the intussusception ; suture of the remaining bowel; complete recovery ..... 335 BARLOW, Thomas, M.D. On a case of early disseminated myelitis occurring in the exanthem stage of measles, and fatal on the eleventh day of that disease, with a report on the microscopical exami- nation of the spinal cord by F. Gr. Penrose, M.D. . 77 Bell, Hutchinson Royes, obituary notice of . .18 BENHAM, B. Fitsroy, see Ewart and Benham, case of em- pyema with pulmonary gangrene treated by perflation. BENNETT, William R. On some dangers connected with the use of the aspirator as a means of relieving the distended urinary bladder ; with suggestions for the treatment of certain cases of retention of urine ..... 207 BISHOP, E. Stanmore. Results of an experimental inquiry as to the best method of restoring the canal after removing portions of the small intestine ..... 343