ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. 389 ted, and she may now be pronounced convalescent. She has steadily gained weight (from 7st. 8| lbs. on March 11th, to 9 st. 4 lbs. on May 6th), and she eats and sleeps well. The patellar and plantar reflexes are still absent. Bemarhs.—I have brought these cases under the notice of the Society in the hope that they would form a con- tribution of some interest to the clinical history and pathology of alcoholic paralysis, especially since no cases accompanied by full pathological details are to be found in its published ^ Transactions.^ In saying this I am not unmindful of the papers contributed by Dr. Reginald Thompson and Dr. Broadbent in 1868 and 1884 respec- tively, but these dealt with the disease chiefly from the clinical standpoint. Until a few years ago the symptoms in cases such as those I have narrated were attributed to some change in the spinal cord, and this view was held by both British and foreign writers. Dr. Wilks, for instance, wrote of alcoholic^ paraplegia as a spinal affection from the influence of alcohol exerted on the spinal cord. Dr. Broadbent^s communication, also just referred to, bore the title ^' On a Form of Alcoholic Spinal Paralysis,^' and in the discussion which followed the reading of his paper at the Society^s meeting on February 12th, 1884, the opinion seemed to be generally held that the disease owed its symptoms to some change, either organic or dynamic^ in the cord.^ And it may be said that the writings of both German and French observers pointed for the most part to similar conclusions, till Lancereaux^ published cases in which the peripheral nerves were de- scribed as manifestly altered, a large number of the fibres of the nerves examined showing the myelin to be seg- mented in rounded granular masses of unequal size. The 1 ' Lancet,' March 9th, 1872. ' Dr. Buzzard, however, referred to the observations of Lancereaux and others as suggesting its peripheral origin. 3 ' Gazette Hebdomadaire/ No. 8, Feb. 25th, 1881,