88 EARLY DISSEMINATED MYELITIS. retention continued and for ten days the catheter was needed. The paraplegia was complete for one week^ and two days after that time entirely disappeared. It was ascer- tained that the same patient^ when attacked by smallpox nine years before^ had been similarly affected with regard to her limbs and had completely recovered. M. Liegard^ relates the case of a child, aged two, who at the beginning of convalescence from measles developed an ascending paralysis of lower limbs, upper limbs, back and neck muscles, with difficulty of mastication and deglutition. There was loss of sensation in the limbs but no affection of sphincters and no convulsions, tremblings, or contractures. The child recovered completely in three weeks. M. Bergeron^ records a fatal case of paralysis after measles. A child, aged three, was admitted to hospital with measles, and in eight days afterwards developed superficial gangrene of one ear. About one month after- wards, when cicatrisation was nearly complete and the child^s condition was satisfactory but for a certain amount of languor, she suddenly became paralysed in all four limbs and deglutition became difficult and the voice nasal. Ultimately the diaphragm and respiratory muscles became paralysed and the sphincters likewise, and the child died with asphyxia eleven days after the onset of the paralysis and about sixty-two days after the onset of the measles. Post-mortem examination showed extensive pneumonia. The brain was congested, but no microscopic change could be detected by Ranvier. The cord is said to have pre- sented very marked congestion, and this was attributed by M. Bergeron to the asphyxial condition, but no record is given of any microscopical examination. The question may now be asked, Can any light be thrown on the present case by records of nervous complication in any of the other exanthemata ? A most satisfactory parallel is forthcoming in the first ' ' Gazette des hopitaux,' 1859, p. 562. 2 ' Gazette des h6pitaux, 1868, p. 5,