102 ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OF THE FAUCES. great numbers in the lower part of the pharynx, ulcer- ation ensues, not only in the follicles, but also in the intervening tissue, leaving a large ulcer on the posterior wall. Some of these ulcers, he says, showed nothing characteristic as to their origin, whilst others were fol- licular. It would seem probable that some of his cases were purely tubercular, whilst others were purely syphilitic, and some may have been, as Wendt seems inclined to think is frequently the case, the result of the combined effects of the two diatheses. In the acute form (to which we consider our cases belong), the first sign is the appearance of small discrete papules on the soft palate, pillars of the fauces, and, still more rarely, on the posterior wall of the pharynx. In colour they are white, grey, or yellowish, and seem firmly embedded in the mucous membrane ; they are indeed deposits of tubercle, and present the usual microscopical characters of that neoplasm. They soon attain a larger size, caseate, and undergo ulceration, rapidly implicating the surrounding parts, and ultimately causing great de- struction of the mucous membrane lining the soft palate and adjoining parts. The mucous membrane in the imme- diate neighbourhood of the ulcers is swollen and congested, with tubercles scattered through it, and is often covered with a viscid, whitish secretion or exudation presenting some resemblance, at first sight, to diphtheritic mem- brane, but less organised and more friable. The retro- pharyngeal and cervical lymphatic glands become enlarged, and the latter sometimes suppurate; sometimes, and this happened in our Case No. 1, the enlargement of the glands entirely subsides before the termination of the case. The uvula is sometimes greatly thickened and elongated. Of the aetiology of the acute affection we know nothing ; whilst in regard to age, we find that it is most liable to occur at the period when tuberculosis is most frequent. Only four cases of its occurrence in children have been hitherto recorded, so far as we know, viz. two by Dr. Gee,