ACUTE TUBERCULAR ULCERATION OP THE FAUCES. 101 having seen 8 cases in addition to these. Gurovitch^ mentions 11 cases that had come under his own observa- tion^ and thinks that a certain number of cases must occur in the practice of most laryugologists. Unfortunately^ in regard to the above statistics, it is impossible to tell which were instances of acute, and which of chronic, pharyngeal tuberculosis, a point to which we shall refer again directly. The post-mortem records of the Hospital for Sick Chil- dren, for the twenty-five years ending in 1884, yield 8 cases of acute tubercular ulceration of the fauces out of a total of 380 cases of tuberculosis ; two of these are given in this paper (Nos. 2 and 3) and two have already been referred to as published by Dr. Gee. We believe that a sharp distinction can, and ought, to be drawn between chronic and acute tubercular ulceration of the fauces. The former is essentially a local tubercu- losis commencing in the pharynx or spreading there from the larynx, the latter is only a part of general tuber- culosis. Krishaber^ and Barth^ have shown that the affection may commence in the soft palate as an acute tuberculosis of the small adenoid glands. Microscopically, they found the follicles swollen and infiltrated with lymphoid cells, more numerous and more closely packed than in the normal state. In the centre the cells degenerated, the reticulum disappeared, and an abscess was formed, dis- charging externally, and causing a small rounded ulcer- ation. In the two cases recorded by these authors, very acute general tuberculosis accompanied the condition, and death occurred in a few days. Wendt* describes a de- structive follicular pharyngitis, which he terms pharyngitis scrofulosa, occurring in tuberculous subjects and also in the course of scrofula, in congenital and acquired syphilis, and even in healthy people. The follicles are attacked in ^ ' St. Petersburgh Dissertation.' 2 ' These de Paris,' 1877. ^ Loc. cit. ^ ' Ziemssen's Cyclopsedia,' vol. vii, p. 74.