CHRONIC INFLAMMATION OF THE LIPS AND MOUTH. 431 edged ulcers, wliich certainly looked very suspicious. Slie liad at this time no skin eruption excepting on tke elbows and knees, but I was told that there had formerly been patches on the palms and soles and between the toes. The eruption had first shown itself at Christmas, 1878, and the sore mouth came soon after. I had some doubt as to whether the symptoms really were specific although I could give no other diagnosis ; and we agreed to leave off both mercury and iodides, to use soothing remedies to the mouth, arid to give arsenic. I did not see her again for several months but was informed that the mouth soon got much better. Possibly it had been made worse by mercury. In the beginning of the following June, however, Mrs. P— came to me again with a single sore in the mouth, and on June 27th, in spite of my treatment^ several small florid ulcers had formed in the mucous membrane of the lips, and there was general inflammation of lips, cheeks, and palate. At this time there were no sores on the tongue. She had now a general eruption of dry, scaly, superficial patches on various parts of the body, on the waist, where the strings of her dress pressed, and on her knees and thighs. On the mucous membrane of the labia were some abruptly margined sores just like those on her lips. I examined her mouth and found that she had no artificial teeth and none that were stopped. She consid- ered that her relapses were due to catching cold, and excepting a peculiar proneness to catch cold she consid- ered herself in good health. She had been taking arsenic for a month and we continued it in increased doses and combined with it the chlorate of potash. Two weeks later the sores on the genitals had healed but the mouth remained very sore and many abrasions had now appeared on her tongue. The eruption was fading. About six weeks later she came to me again, her mouth being almost well and the eruption having made a considerable change in type. She now had a copious rash of erythema multi- forme on her hands. On her fingers the eruption looked