393 ALCOHOLIC PARALYSIS. nerves (including tlie optic and oculo-motor nerves) in tlie pneumogastric, phrenic, &c. " 4. Their symptoms, very complex and very variable, are as yet incompletely understood. However, in com- paring the observations published up to the present time, they may be divided into three groups. " The first comprises those cases where the symptoms of neuritis shown at the autopsy have passed unnoticed amid the severe troubles attendant upon the evolution of the tuberculosis (latent neuritis). In the second are placed those in which muscular atrophies, localised or diffuse, have constituted the pre- dominant symptom (amyotrophic neuritis). " In the third may be included those cases in which the nerve inflammations have produced during life the more or less serious troubles of sensation, hypersesthesias, anaesthesias, neuralgias, &c. (painful or anaesthetic neuritis.) " 5. The frequency of peripheral neuritis in the subjects of tuberculosis, the variability of its distribution, and con- sequently of its symptoms, explain the existence and the many clinical forms of most of the nervous troubles which supervene in the course of tubercular disease. The considerations advanced by these authors open up an important field for observation regarding the changes to be found in the peripheral nerves in the subjects of phthisis, which it may be hoped will soon be more com- pletely occupied. They have at least established a case for further inquiry. It must be said, however, that in none of their cases is alcoholic influence expressly excluded, and this is a fact of some importance when the difficulty of obtaining such a history from patients is borne in mind, and when it is further remembered that varying degrees of alcoholic indulgence produce different effects on diffe- rent individuals. And, as already mentioned, two of the cases quoted in their paper (one of Striimpell^s and one of Miiller's) were alcoholic. As to treatment, my first and second cases were so rapidly fatal as to make any discussion on this point in