INDURATION IN THE PRIMARY 192 Case 142—B. K—, a3t. 18. Admitted for the first time. Sept. 5th, 1884.—There is purulent discharge from the vagina and Barto- lini's duct; no other signs of disease, local or general. 20th.—A very small roundish superficial excoriation on one labium without any thickening. 27th.—There are now six or seven little circular excoriations on the labia, chiefly on the skin surface, level with the general surface; not ulcerated j no thickening in them, no enlarged inguinal glands. Oct. 2nd.—All the sores are larger ; one has a centre where the epidermis is sound, surrounded by a zone of excoriation. 11th.—Sores have all healed over j the places remain a little reddened; they look slightly higher than the general surface, but do not feel thicker to the touch than neighbouring parts; no enlarged glands. 21st.—Copious syphilitic exanthem has appeared. Nov. 21st.—All signs of syphilis have now subsided. In this case the incubation period lasted more than fifteen days, the time she remained in hospital before the primary lesions appeared. The primary lesions presented typical characters with the exception of the absence of induration; they were situated on the front surfaces of the labia, where they presented every facility for examination; attention was fully aroused as to their true nature, and the sores were constantly examined with respect to the presence or absence of induration. There was an absence of induration of the inguinal glands, a point which will be referred to later on, and the occa- sional but apparently rare occurrence of which will be illustrated from these notes. The outbreak of general symptoms occurred in a typical manner. Case 34.—M. H—, sst. 17. Admitted for the first time. April 12th, 1880.—Gonorrhojal discharge. There are no enlarged inguinal glands nor signs of general syphilis; there are two patches of excoriation, one on either fold of the nates. I7th.—Sore places look to be drying up and healing. 22nd.—The places look nearly dry, yet have not quite healed over; they have scarcely any secretion; there is no thickening in them or about them. May 6th.—The excoriations have now healed over; there is no induration about them, nor are there any indurated inguinal glands. 13th.—The excoriations have left discoloured reddened places on the skin, which is there a little scaly; there has been no induration throughout either on the places or in the inguinal glands. She now left the hospital and continued under medical examination out- side ; she was re-admitted. July 6th (second admission).—There were now enlarged and indurated inguinal glands, some macular syphilitic eruption on the back, and on the vulva some tubercular and papular infiltrations and dry, scaly infiltrated patches of the skin. August 7th.—All signs have disappeared.