26 PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS. When it was decided by Grovernment to throw open to public competition the medical services of the Army_, Navy, and India, it became requisite to appoint examiners to test the relative merits of the candidates, and Mr. Busk was selected for the office of Examiner in Physiology and Anatomy, an appointment which he held to within a few years of his death. His latter days were days of much suffering, but he bore all with patient fortitude. His health broke down as the result of loug-continued neuralgic suffering, consequent on an attack of herpes. But notwithstanding these and other physical troubles incident to advanced life, severe drawbacks to his ease and comfort, he was engaged to within a few days of his death on the work already alluded to. I am permitted to add some few lines, forwarded to me by one who knew him long and intimately, and who was well capable of judging of his worth. He says that no one in our time has more remarkably combined the possession of complete skill in surgery with an accurate and far- extending knowledge of comparative anatomy and anthro- pology. He wrote but little on surgery, and it was only by report that I knew of his work on board the Dreadnought Hospital Ship. His operations were admirable, and his dexterity in the many difficult things that are classed in minor surgery was greater than his colleagues had ever seen. It was on board the Dreadnought that he studied the pathology of cholera, on which he and George Budd published their celebrated paper in our ^ Transactions,'^ and there he studied scurvy, and showed many interesting and novel facts concerning the changes in the effused blood. In his time the Dreadnought was a place of very active pathological study. As an Examiner, he was careful, patient, and very just, though always, I think, with an inclination to mercy. Yery few, I believe, have been members of the councils of as many learned and scientific societies as he was; and in all these he was singularly punctual, business-like, studious of 1 Vol. xxi, p. 152.