president's address. 25 * Letter from Dr. Allman. 1864^ for the purpose of investigating the ancient fauna which had been discovered in the caves of that region. To attempt on this occasion to do anything like justice to the work and character of George Busk would be to trespass far too long on the time allotted to us this evening. I must not_, however^ omit a reference to his last labours. These were devoted to the preparation of a Report on the Polyzoa collected during the Voyage of the Challenger.'^ The first part of this work was completed in 1884, while the second and concluding portion he left behind in a con- dition nearly ready for the press. This under the judicious supervision of the proofs by his eldest daughter, through whose loving care during his last months of suffering he was enabled to carry on his work to completion^ is now ready for publication. Early elected a Fellow of the Royal Society he served on the Council and was four times nominated as a Vice- President. He was, more than once, President of the Microscopical Society, and of the Anthropological Society. He was for a time Zoological Secretary of the Linnean Society, and would have been made President had he not felt himself unequal to the duties of the office. For his researches in Zoology and Comparative Anatomy, the Royal Society in 1871 awarded him the Royal Medal, while for his palseontological researches he received from the Geological Society the Lyell and Wollaston Medals. On the passing of the Cruelty to Animals Act, he was appointed inspector of the various medical schools and physiological laboratories registered under the Act, and the judgment and skill with which he performed the difficult duties of the office bear ample testimony to the wisdom of his appointment.^ George Busk was a genuine lover of nature. Generous and liberal to his fellow-workers, he was ever ready to place his rich store of material at their service, and never envious of whatever success might accrue to them as a result of his liberality.