THE EELATION OF A CERTAIN FORM OP 364 of the uric acid to go upon, its relation to the headaclie might be somewhat obscure ; but a glance at column 7 of the table, showing the relation of uric acid to urea, gives us, I think, a clue to the reason why there is a headache on one day with a uric acid excretion of 16*1 gr., and not on another day with 16 gr. excretion. Throughout the whole of these analyses I have been careful to note the relation of the uric acid to the urea every day, and the result gives me an average in health of about 1 to 33 ; and it will be seen that on the 28th of December, on which day 16 gr. of uric acid were passed with only a threatening of headache, the relation of uric acid to urea was 1 to 35, while on the 2nd of January, with 16"1 gr. uric acid and a very severe headache, the relation to urea was 1 to 22, a relation which has never been met with before. On the 29th and 26th of November, the days mentioned above, the relations were 1 to 31 and 1 to 33 respectively, which are either normal or close to it. It may be objected that on the 26th of December during the headache the relation was 1 to 32, or nearly normal; but I think that in all probability the urine of this headache was not sufficiently accurately separated from that excreted before and after it, so that we have an approximation here to the equivocal results I have before alluded to ; and in any case the difference between a relation of 1 to 32 during, and 1 to 46 after the headache, is sufficiently well marked. On the days I have mentioned above, where there was excessive excretion of both urea and uric acid in something like the normal relation to each other, this excess was the direct result of more than ordinarily severe exercise, a result which is perfectly in accord with those obtained by North^ in his experiments " On the Influence of Bodily Labour on the Discharge of Nitrogen -/^ and as long as the relationship of the uric acid to the urea shows no great fluctuations there is no headache ; but, as I have previously pointed out in my second paper to the ' Practitioner,'^ 1 * Proc. Roy. Soc.,' 1885. 2 ' Practitioner,' March, 1886, p. 182.