RELIEVING THE DISTENDED URINAEY BLADDER. 211 the abdominal parietes in the hypogastric region_, and tenderness on slight pressure. Without very much difficulty I passed a No. 4 catheter (silver) through a hard stricture into the bladder^ and drew off a small quantity of urine^ which contained a con- siderable amount of blood. The dulness and rigidity above the pubes were very little^ if at all altered, by my proceeding_, but the patient was so well satisfied with the fact that a catheter was in the bladder that he declined to have anything further done. The instrument was there- fore loosely tied in. On the following mornings September 20thj he thought himself rather better; the pulse was very quick, the tongue rather dry, the temperature normal, there was occasional vomiting. Only a little bloody urine had passed through the catheter. The dulness above the pubes was rather more extensive, but the rigidity seemed slightly less marked. The catheter was withdrawn, and a No. 6 passed without difficulty, but the patient begged that it might not be tied in, as he ascribed the vomiting to the presence of the instrument in the bladder. It was therefore ordered to be passed at frequent intervals. By the 21st only a few ounces of urine had been drawn off by the catheter; the patient was worse in all respects. The dulness had much increased, there was great tender- ness over the hypogastrium, but he still declined further > interference. On the 22nd he was obviously sinking, and 11 at length obtained permission to deal with the case as I thought fit. I therefore cut down in the middle line immediately above the pubes, sixty-four hours after my first seeing the patient. Upon getting through the parietes a large quantity of dark-coloured, intensely jammoniacal urine rushed out through the incision. On iintroducing the finger, a large cavity could be felt with a softish mass at the bottom, which was presumed to be the ibladder; the walls of the space appeared to consist of a [quantity of sloughing cellular tissue. The cavity was