LESION OF SYPHILIS IN WOMEN. 185 89. In posterior commissure a small excavated sore, which later assumed an even, granular surface, but was never raised nor thickened. 61. On labium minus three ulcerated sores; they soon became super- ficial, but spread; thickening appeared very gradually, becoming in time well marked. 70. On inside of labium two ragged, eroded sores, with yellowish-grey surfaces, no thickening; they filled up, and later on induration developed in them and throughout labium. 99. Just outside entrance to vagina several little irregular, deeply eroded, yellow-surfaced sores, which later spread into one, with red, granular surface, and margin slightly raised, perhaps slightly thickened. 100. At entrance to vagina a rather eroded sore, with yellow surface which gradually increased; later the whole adjacent labium was infiltrated; no separate induration in sore itself. 147. On inner surfaces of labia two rather deeply eroded sores, with yellow surfaces; changing after to slightly raised, red places, smooth, moist, and a little thickened. 28. On fold of nates four small sores, a little ulcerated, with a little red, thickened infiltration around, forming later large sores, level with general surface, with greyish pultaceous surfaces; induration later, with great thickening and redness around. 26. On inside of labium a large ulcerated sore, with unhealthy greyish surface; whole labium infiltrated and thickened throughout. 44. At orifice of duct of Bartolini a large sore, with grey, sloughy- looking surface; thickening in subjacent tissues. 85. At entrance to vagina a small sore, which spread by ulceration, a little thickening about it. 96. On outside of labium a round sore, superficially ulcerated; much inflammatory infiltration in adjacent part of labium; later it became rather prominent, with glazed surface; later still much larger, with much widespread thickening. 3. In extralabial furrow a small sore discharging pus, with redness around; it became larger, with almost dry surface, glazed looking; without any thickening throughout. 46. On inside of labium a superficial sore discharging pus, changing into a reddish patch, looking as if merely denuded of epithe- lium ; it never became thickened. 41. On inside of labium, which was swollen and red, several super- ficial excoriations; later on some superficial induration in labium, which continued swollen. 58. About vulva several large superficial sores discharging pus; two of them soon became indurated, and left well-marked induration on healing. 65, On the labia, and opposed, are two sores with suppurating surfaces.