156 RICHTER^S HERNIA OR PARTIAL ENTEROCELE. sac contained a little omentum, and a portion of small intestine that formed a Richter's hernia. The piece of bowel picked up was about the size of a cherry. It was of a deep purple colour. The lumen of the intestine was free near the mesentery. The strangulating agent was the neck of the sac. The sac was removed and ligatured, and the canal closed in the usual way. The patient made a rapid recovery. The account that I will now give of the morbid anatomy and clinical aspects of Richter's hernia is founded upon the examination of fifty-three recorded cases, among which the four cases just described are included. The number of reputed examples of Richter's hernia that surgical literature presents, greatly exceeds that just enumerated. I have met with some eighty cases in all. About thirty of these, however, are either so imperfectly reported as to be valueless, or do not afford substantial evidence as to their identity. An analysis of these cases is furnished at the end of the paper. Richter's hernia is more common in women than in men, and is limited to adults, the average age being fifty-three. It is met with more frequently in the femoral than in the inguinal region, and upon the right side than upon the left. It occurs in old herniae in pre- ference to those of recent formation, and is more often associated with ruptures that have been reducible than with those that have become irreducible. The tumour that existed was in all the recorded cases very small, varying in size from a nut to a hen's egg. In nearly 50 per cent, of the cases the rupture was neither recognised nor suspected during life. In all these instances death followed. In no less than seven of the cases of femoral hernia (the total number of which was thirty-eight) an enlarged gland was found immediately in front of the femoral opening. This is a feature that is deserving of notice. In some of these cases the gland hid the hernia entirely, while in others it led to the diagnosis of acute adenitis as the cause of some of the local symptoms.