gfie, KINCS COLLEGE E HOSPITAL S BOOKOF COOKING RECIPES THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF THIS BOOK WILL BE DE- VOTED TO TH E FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITALTO SOUTH LONDON LONGMANS CREEN &CO LONDON- NEW YORK • BOM BAY S, CALCUTTASaint Pancras Public Libraries. Camden Town Branch 18, Camden Street, N.W. 1. (EUSton 1976) The Home-Reading Library is open from 10 a.m. until 8 p.m. Monday to Friday (inclusive) and from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday The time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within that period, a fine of twopence for the first week or portion of a week, and fourpence for each succeeding week or portion of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious disease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, but must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at the time of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public Health Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn Road, W.C.l. Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friday; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. No book can be issued unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a book returned. No book can be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. Changes of address of readers or of their sponsors must be notified within one week of such change. Readers leaving the Borough or ceasing to use the Libraries are required to return their tickets to the Librarian, otherwise they will be held responsible for all " —H.1.11’ LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden ! books clean, to leaves, or making lem. They must done to the books ley will be held RD STREET. LACE, LONDON. ET. E.C. iSt. Pancras Public Libraries This book must be returned on or before the date last marked below. If you wish to renew the loan of the book, write or telephone to the issuing Branch and give the following details : date due back ; author ; title. METROPOLITAN JOINT RESERVE | (St. Pancras Public Libraries) lb. 08. £ !• . Number.... —~~— Mor ft V 1 711? try A Brc Blancn !«2 Any fri One C Bren Ask fc t Mrs edc For pi securec u —the e Take a to a q er. dry bi > usual, digest when Browr use Flo *trs‘ mi lirtdii toy w % 'Strtspo; tt if Pai ■Tonadvertisements Mor Praise V night give it, try for yourself— A Broj & Poison Corn Flour j BlancitJ g{e and stewed fruit. Any frd m season. Out Ca Flour always— M in & Poison’s “ Patent ” Ask fol t. \\rs yeeton says: Iifsstry making, the quality to be idred is lightness i - plJppastry lightness can always be : .r;cil using ; a| a $al, q er be is ley Flour yy (Trade Mark) rraising powder. sertspoonful of “Paisley Flour” -pound of flour, and mix well making the dough. Bake as you will have crisp, light, very pastry, which will not get doughy 1. “Paisley Flour” is made by Poison only.A dvertisements Good Healthful Beverages are as Important as Good CooRery. THE CJMWJIL Aerated Waters In Syphons and Bottles are the Best that Money can buy or Science produce. Of all High-class Chemists. You cannot go wrong If you select the Brand recommended for over 30 years by Doctors—used in Hospitals all oyer the Country—and manufactured under Analytical control to ensure the highest Standard of Quality and Purity. KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL REMOVAL FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON Patron of the Hospital: HIS MOST GRACIOUS MAJESTY THE KING. President of the Hospital: H.R.H. THE DUKE OF CONNAUGHT. K.G.. K.P., G.C.B.. etc. Chairman of the Committee of Management: GENERAL LORD METHUEN. G.C.B., K.C.V.O.. C.M.G. Chairman of Removal Committee: HON. W. F. D. SMITH. M.P. Treasurer: CHARLES AWDRY, Esq. Secretary : CAPTAIN H. S. TUNNARD. 11 Appeal Secretary : QEORGE HEYER. Esq.. M.AAdvertisements iii BENHAM & SONS LTD 66 WIGMORE STREET, LONDON, W. Bertram's " Wigmore ” Kitchener with '* Wigmorc ’’ Independent Hot Water System. COOKING APPARATUS : KITCHEN FITTINGS FOR PRIVATE HOUSES, HOTELS, HOSPITALS, &c. HOT WATER SUPPLY HEATING APPARATUS Recent Large Contracts at Royal Yacht Victoria and Jilbert for H.M. THE KING; Royal Yacht Alexandra for H.M. THE KING; Luton Hoo, Beds., for Sir JULIUS WERNHER, Bart.; Hursley Park, Winchester, for Sir GEORGE COOPER, Bart. ; Hever Castle, Kent, for W. W. ASTOR, Esq. ; Simpson s Restaurant, Strand ; University College Hospital ; Christ’s Hospital, Horsham, etc., etc. REPRESENTATIVE SENT ON APPLICATIONSaint Pancras Public Libraries. Camden Town Branch 18, Camden Street, N.W. 1. (EUSton 1976) The Home-Reading Library is open from 10 a.m. until 8 p.m. Monday to Friday (inclusive) and from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday The time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within that period, a fine of twopence for the first week or portion of a week, and fourpence for each succeeding week or portion of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious disease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, but must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at the time of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public Health Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray's Inn Road, W.C.l. Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friday ; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. No book can be issued unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a book returned. No book can be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. Changes of address of readers or of their sponsors must be notified within one week of such change. Readers leaving the Borough or ceasing to use the Libraries are required to return their tickets to the Librarian, otherwise they will be held responsible for all liabilities incurred. Readers are required to keep the books clean, to efrain from turning down the leaves, or making encil or other marks upon them. They must port any damage or injury done to the books ey receive, otherwise they will be held countable for the same.550 362784 c&he Kings College Hospital Book of Cooking Recipes Being a Collection of Recipes conhibuted by Friends of the Hospital AND PUBLISHED IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON &P LONGMANS, GREEN AND CO 39 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON NEW YORK, BOMBAY, AND CALCUTTA 19073 PREFACE The compilers desire to convey their thanks to all those ladies who have so kindly furnished material for the production of this work. At the same time they take this opportunity of explaining that it was impossible to insert all the recipes received, partly owing to the restrictions of space, and partly because many of them were practically duplicates of recipes which appear in the book. With regard to the title, it must not be assumed that all the dishes contained in this work are comprised in the cuisine of King’s College Hospital, but the work may be said to justify its title inasmuch as all the contents have been contributed by friends of the institution. Many of the recipes are old family ones, which have never before been printed. Where a name appears at the foot of a recipe, it denotes the person by whom such recipe was sent in, and is not to be taken as an indication of authorship. As already stated on the cover the proceeds of the sale of this book, after paying expenses, will be devoted to the fund for the removal of King’s College Hospital to South London. Readers are therefore asked to recommend the work to their friends as widely as possible. The compilers trust that, as cookery books go, this one will be found to be no bad shillingsworth.Surgical Ward Block (Two Floors) G 8 Op rating and 1 Clinical Theatre L Administration Block R ,, Administration (Three Floors) F Gyn. Op. Pm. ami Clinical Theatre K Out-Patient Department Q Isolation Block Medical Ward Block (Two Floors) E Clinical Theatre J Casualty Pejvrtment O Medical School, P Mortuary BLOCK PLAN OF THE FUTURE KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL. ,i (Three Floors) H Bathing Establishment M & N Special Wards Y Chapel 77/// 7y#/'/VA/7(7 <«u Q5 In 1903 it was decided to remove King’s College Hospital to South London. This step met with the strong approval and support of the Committee of King Edward’s Hospital Fund. Principal Reasons for the Removal. Owing to the clearance of its slums during the past thirty years, and the gradual dispersal of its poor population, the west central district of London is now provided with Hospitals far in excess of its requirements. King’s College Hospital (224 beds) stands to-day in the centre of a “ depopulated ” area occupied principally by business pre- mises ; and within a mile and a half are ten large general Hospitals. South of the Thames an enormous poor population has been growing up for fifty years. If a line be drawn east and west through Camberwell Green, it will traverse a district inhabited by a million and a half poor people, utterly unpro- vided with hospital accommodation. In 1892 a Select Committee appointed by the House of Lords strongly urged that at the first opportunity either a large general Hospital should be built in Camberwell, or an existing Hospital should be transferred thither. Cbe Reiv hospital. In order to provide an adequate building for the require- ments of the locality, it was estimated that a sum of at least £300,000 would be immediately required. An appeal was made to the public, and shortly afterwards an ideal site of twelve acres on Denmark Hill was presented by the Hon. W. F. D. Smith, M.P.HE CENT'S Nnc3°2^LJ UNIVEMSITY COI.L IIO.S I.ON DON IIOMcr.r MIllDLESEX sov 1113'CKOHCE'S SafeSi fiSig® An integral part of the Hospital will be its Medical School, which in the past has attained a world-wide fame under the guidance of such renowned men as Dr. Robert Bentley Todd, Sir William Bowman, Dr. George Budd, Mr. Richard Partridge, Sir William Fergusson, Sir Thomas Watson, Dr. Arthur Farre, Sir George Johnson, Dr. Lionel Beale, 6 After a competition among leading architects, a design for a hospital of 600 beds, submitted by Mr. W. A. Pite, r.R.I.B.A., was accepted, and the proposed building, arranged and equipped in accordance with the latest principles of modern science, will stand in the forefront of the great hospitals of the world. GENERAL HOSPITALS. SPECIAL HOSPITALS.7 Mr. John Wood, Sir William Overend Priestley, Sir Alfred Garrod, Dr. W. S. Playfair, Lord Lister, and other great physicians and surgeons. Progress of tbe Appeal. At the time of going to press the appeal made to the public has realised £175,000, including the value of the site. The contract for the out-patient and casualty department is to be proceeded with almost at once, and the Committee appeals urgently for the remaining sum of £125,000. It must not be forgotten that the inhabitants of the district immediately adjacent to the new site are very poor, and such monetary help as they are able to give to the project can be but small. On the other hand, as patients from all parts of Great Britain are constantly under treatment in its wards, King’s College Hospital may fairly claim to be a national charity, and appeals for support to all generous benefactors through- out the country. As many donors desire their contributions to be earmarked, some for Hospital purposes, others for the Medical School, it it is now proposed to divide the Fund as follows:— FUND A.—For the Building of the New Hospital. FUND B. -For the Building and Endowment of the Medical School. FUND C.—To be applied at the discretion of the Committee to A or B. Subscribers are asked to specify to which Fund or Funds they desire their contributions to be paid. In the event of no such specification being made, it will be assumed that the donation is to go to Fund A.8 The Committee has decided that large Donations or Bequests shall carry with them the right to name portions of the new Hospital, thus The sum of £l,000 names a Bed. „ £10,000 names a Ward. „ £20,000 or £30.000 names a two or three storey block. Cheques should be made payable to “ King's College Hospital Removal Fund," crossed “ Lloyd's Bank, Limited, Laxo Courts Branch," and addressed to George Heyer, Esq., King’s College Hospital, London, W.C.B I SOUPS. Artichoke Soup (1). ipt. white Stock. 2lbs. Artichokes, iApts. Milk. Quickly boil the artichokes in water till tender; pass them into the milk through a sieve, add some stock, ioz. of butter, pepper and salt to taste. Boil up and thicken with ioz. of flour. Miss M. S. Owen. Carrot Soup. Take half-pound ham or lean bacon, 6 carrots, 4 turnips, 4 onions and a little celery; slice them all and stew them down in butter till they are soft. Then pour upon them some good broth with the crumbs of a penny roll, a bit of thyme and parsley; stew it all down together, then beat it through a sieve, and make it the substance of thin cream. Add cayenne pepper to your taste. Miss H. Clements. Cauliflower Soup. Cut up a cauliflower, and boil in salt and water till nearly done. Then mix a spoonful of butter and flour together, and add to it the water the cauliflower has been boiled in; add some nutmeg, and let the cauli- flower now boil till quite tender. Beat up the yolk of an egg and add it to the soup. The soup is better if the cauliflower is boiled in stock instead of water. Chestnut Soup. fib. Chestnuts (boiled), iqt. good White Sauce, ipt. Cream. Cayenne—seasoning. Slit the chestnuts, boil them ten minutes and skinIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 2 them. Strain stock, put in enamelled stewpan, add chestnuts and seasonings and simmer till tender. Rub through sieve, return to saucepan, bring to boil and add cream. Miss M. V. Palmer. Clear Soup. Take ylbs. of stock meat and put iot. of water on it, and put it on the fire to boil, but be sure to take off the scum before it boils. Then add carrot, onion, celery, thyme, parsley, marjoram, and tarra- gon. Take off the cover and let it simmer slowly for io hours; then strain off and put it by till next day, when you must be sure to remove all the fat formed. Then have the stock warmed, but not hot, and have about ilb. of gravy beef free from fat. Chop this fine and add the whites of 3 eggs, a little salt, sugar, carrots, tarragon, onions, celery, pars- ley, marjoram, and a teaspoonful of tarragon vine- gar, a teaspoonful of Harvey and Worcester Sauce, and a little ketchup, and ipt. of cold water. Mix all well and add to the warm stock and whisk over the fire till it boils and let it simmer very slowly for an hour. Then strain through a fine cloth. This is quite enough soup for 10 or n people. The cook will be sure to take care not to put too much of the vegetables and herbs, and never add water after the soup is made, as it always tastes watery if this is done. Mrs. Rooke. Clear Mulligatawny Soup. 1 tablespoonful of grated Cocoanut. iqt. Stock. 1 Apple. 1 Onion. 1 tablespoonful Curry Powder. 1 dessert-spoonful of Paste. 1 dessert-spoonful of Chutney. 2 shells and whites of Eggs. Rb. of shredded Beef.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 3 Put the stock in a stewpan with the shredded beef, the shells and whites of 2 eggs. Mix on a plate the grated apple and grated cocoanut, curry powder, paste and chutney. Add these to the stock, put ou- tlie stove and whisk till it boils, then let it boil up; draw to one side, allow it to settle, cover for five minutes, strain it through a clean napkin, warm, and serve. Boiled rice should be handed with the soup. Mrs. Tunnard. Cressy Soup. Take a handful of spinach, a smaller handful of sorrel, 3 good-sized onions, some young carrots, and a very few turnips. Blanch them in a pan of boiling water for a few minutes. Put into a stew- pan a good slice of ham and 41b. of butter, some celery, a few cucumbers, or cucumber parings if the cucumbers are wanted for stewing. Then add the vegetables that are blanched to the ham and the rest of the things with a pint of green peas. Let them all stew together for two hours. Add a little plain beef or mutton broth to the vegetables that are blanched, such broth as meat is boiled in, not stock, as that will spoil the taste of the vegetables. Also four cloves tied in a faggot of herbs. Rub them all through a tammy—ham, and all that go through. Salt, pepper, and sugar to your taste. Mrs. Tunnard. Fish Soup. Head and shoulders of Cod, or a Haddock. 2 sticks of Celery, or 2 Carrots. ^pt. of Milk. Butter, the size of an egg. 2 tablespoon fuls Flour. Pepper and Salt. A little Mace (if desired). Pick the fleshy pieces from the cod or haddock and lay aside. Put all the rest in the pot, with 2qts. ofIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 4 cold water and vegetable cut up; boil for two hours and strain. Add the butter, milk, pepper and salt to taste, and thicken with the flour; add the fleshy pieces of fish and boil for five minutes with minced parsley to flavour it, if desired. Serve hot. Flemish Soup. Skin 6 large onions, cut 6 heads of celery in small pieces, slice about 12 potatoes that have been scalded, put ^lb. of butter into a stewpan, and |pt. of water. Set it on a stove to boil very slowly for an hour, then fill up the stewpan with broth; let it boil an hour, or until the potatoes are all dissolved; then rub it through a sieve, put it into a soup pot, or stewpan, and add a pint of cream. Half the quantity is enough for 3 or 4 people. Mrs. Tunnard. German Soup. One quart of milk to be boiled, draw it to the side; add to it ioz. of flour mixed well with 2ozs. of butter. Stir them into the milk, add salt and a little cayenne and the yolks of 3 eggs. Be careful not to let the soup boil. Shred finely two lettuces, one carrot, one turnip, a small piece of onion. Boil in a separate saucepan until tender; add to the soup and serve. Mrs. Kemlyside. Green Pea Soup. Take 4 or 5 cucumbers pared and sliced, the white part of 2 or 3 lettuces, a sprig of mint, 2 or 3 onions sliced, and a little cayenne pepper and salt, a pint of peas and a little parsley. Put all these in a sauce- pan with Tib. of butter and stew them in their own liauor for an hour and a half or till quite tender; then boil and pulp through a cullender some old peas in a quart or more of water as you require, and mix in the vegetables before serving. Mrs. Tunnard.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Iced Soup. Take a good handful of sorrel and boil it till tender, press it through a sieve, chop it very fine, and lay it in a teacupful of cold water. Boil 4 eggs hard and chop them up fine, 4 small or 1 large lettuce, and 1 cucumber cut into slices; pepper and salt this mixture and pour white vinegar over it. A pint of cream and a little new milk, with some nice clean ice broken in lumps and added to the other ingredients. This soup must only be mixed about five minutes before it is sent to table. Miss M. Perkin. Jenny Lind Soup. Prepare a strong gravy stock free from grease, throw 2 tablespoonfuls of large sago into 3 pts. of boiling stock; cover closely and boil briskly for 40 minutes. Move the saucepan off the fire till it is a little cool, and stir in the yolks of 2 eggs. Shake on the fire till the proper thickness, and then stir in about 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. Mrs. Tunnard. Kidney Soup. Kidney soup made with this recipe is excellent and economical. Save the liquor in which a leg' of mutton has been boiled, place it on the fire, and in it boil a ilb. of bullock’s kidney. When it is half cooked, take it out and cut into dice of £in. square. Add to the stock 1 head of celery, 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 1 onion; boil together for 4 hours. Take it off the fire, strain it through a cloth, return the soup to the pan, add to it a teaspoonful of mushroom ketchup, pepper and salt to taste, and the pieces of kidney. Let it boil for 5 or 10 minutes, and serve. Mrs. McClintock. aIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 6 Leek and Potato Soup. Four nice leeks cut up and soaked in hot butter; add one pint of water and salt and cook half an hour; then add some finely-chopped potato and a good glass of milk. Strain it; add chopped parsley at the last minute. Serve with croutons of fried bread. Meg* Merrilies Soup. Hare, or rabbit, or pheasant or fowl, a piece of beef or bones, a piece of lean ham. These stew all together in good broth; when done strain it through a sieve, then through a napkin. Cut 6 heads of celery, 6 onions, 6 leeks, blanch them and then stew them in some of the soup with a good sprig of thyme or parsley, 4 bayleaves, 10 cloves, a little mace tied up together and stewed with the vegetables. Then put it all together with a pint of barley broth and a little barley, a good handful of boiled parsley chopped, a tablespoonful of pounded sugar and sea- son it to the taste. This soup may be made with any remains of game or poultry. Mrs. Tunnard. Milk Soup. 2lbs. Potatoes. 2 Onions. Small blade of Mace. 20ZS. Butter, ipt. of Milk. 1 teaspoonful of crushed Tapioca. Seasoning of Pepper, Celery and Salt. 2qts. boiling Water. Cut the onions and potatoes into slices, and steam them in the butter, pour on them the boiling water, add the mace, boil to a mash, pass through a sieve, return to a saucepan, add the seasoning and milk, bring to the boil and sprinkle in the tapioca. Boil till it is clear. It is then ready to serve. Miss M. Harben.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 7 Onion Soup (1). ilb. Spanish Onions, io7.. Butter. 2 dessert-spoonfuls Flour. 2ozs. mild grated Cheese. 3pts. good Stock. Cut the onions into dice, place them in a saucepan with the butter and brown well, then add the flour and mix all well together, and add the stock gradu- ally. At the first bubble add the grated cheese and boil for io minutes. Season and serve with fried toast. Miss M. Perkin. Onion Soup (2). 3 or 4 large Onions. 4 Potatoes. 20zs. of Butter or Dripping. 2pts. of boiling Milk. lpt. of boiling Water. Some pieces of Toasted Bread. Salt and Pepper to taste. Melt the butter, slice the onions, and fry them in butter until they are well browned; add two table- spoonfuls of flour, and brown it also; then add the boiling water and let it boil up. - Now' add the boiling milk and the potatoes, mashed fine without any lumps, then season the soup, and serve with some nicely toasted bread, cut in diamonds. Miss Bailey. Parsnip Soup. 6 Parsnips. 2 small Onions, i small piece of Celery, i Tomato. i teaspoonful finely chopped Parsley, ioz. Butter. i dessert-spoonful Flour, iipts. white Stock, i teacupful Milk.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR TF1E REMOVAL OF 8 Melt the butter in a saucepan, then stir in the par- snips and onions skinned and cut into small pieces; cook for about five minutes, then add the tomato, sliced, and the stock. Cook until the parsnips are finite tender; pass all through a wire sieve; return the soup to the saucepan, and when it comes to the boil add the flour mixed with the cold milk; boil for three or four minutes, season with salt and white pepper, throw in the parsley and serve very hot.' If the soup is to be extra good, add the yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of cream; they can be put in the tureen and soup poured over them. Artichoke Soup (2). Made in the same way as the above, allowing ilb. of artichokes to ipt. of white stock. Miss M. Pf.rkin. Polish Soup. Fill a good-sized jar with slices of beetroot cut in pieces, and cover them with cold water, to which should be added a slice of bread. The jar should then be covered and left until the juice, which be- comes a deep vermilion colour, is fermented, and has a sour taste; in warm weather three days will suffice for this, but in winter it takes five or six. The ferment which rises to the top must be re- moved and the juice passed through a sieve. It is then boiled with an equal quantity of strong beef stock, to which is added small pieces of ham. The soup comes to table looking clear and red, and for variety mav be made pink by adding a pint of sour cream. Miss Baxter.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 9 Potato Soup (1). Steam 5 large potatoes, then put them into 3pts. stock in a stewpan, adding an onion, carrot, turnip, and celery, and bunch of herbs. Well boil it. In the meanwhile take a piece of butter about (lie size of a walnut and melt it in a stewpan, adding 2 tablespoonfuls of flour; well boil them together. Cook it dry, and work it into a paste, it ought to be a brown colour, then add it to the potatoes on the fire, boil well together and then tammy it. Before it is done season with salt and pepper, a tablespoonful of cream or good milk. After it is tammied it may require a little more stock to thin it; it should not be buttery when done. Mrs. Tunnard. Potato Soup (2). 3 Potatoes. 1 tablespoonful Butter. 1 tablespoon fill Flour. ipt. Milk. Pepper. Salt. Onion Juice. Celery Salt. Boil the potatoes and mash them thoroughly. Put the milk on in a double saucepan, and when boiling add the potatoes and boil for 10 minutes, stirring frequently; strain it through a sieve and return it to the saucepan. Rub the butter into the flour, add pepper, salt, onion juice and celery salt, and mix to the consistency of cream with a little hot milk; add this to the potato milk and boil for five minutes, stirring all the time; strain again and serve very hot. If too thick add more milk or water. C. Perkin. Rabbit Soup. Boil a rabbit in 4pts. of water for two hours with 3 or 4 onions, carrots, and four strips of celeryIN AID OF THE FUND FOR TIIE REMOVAL OF 10 whole. Strain the liquor, and when it is cold add a pint of new milk, a lump of butter the size of a walnut, 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, the best pieces of the rabbit cut into small pieces, some chopped parsley and the vegetables cut in pieces. Mix all together and boil for five minutes. Mrs. Maxwell. Spinach Soup. i bundle of Spinach, i teaspoonful of Sugar. \ teaspoonful of Salt. Pepper to taste, i pinch of Soda, ioz. of Flour. ]oz. of Putter. Rpts. of good Stock. Wash the spinach, removing the stalks, put the leaves into a saucepan, with enough cold water to cover it; add the salt and soda and boil up quickly. Allow it to boil for 7 or 8 minutes, and then drain thoroughly. Chop the spinach and rub through a hair sieve. Return the puree to the saucepan, and add to it the pepper and sugar and a little more salt if necessary. Work together the flour and butter, and add to the spinach when hot. Then 3uY in the stock, let boil up again, and serve with croutons. Miss Macpherson. Tomato Soup (1). Boil ilb. of tomatoes in a pint of water. When cooked squeeze (with the water) through a sieve. Put 2ozs. of butter in a saucepan, when melted add a tablespoonful of flour. Boil for five minutes, then gradually add the tomato and half a pint of milk. Mix well and boil all up together. When cooked it should be of the consistency of cream. Miss Heyer.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOL'TLI LONDON 11 Tomato Soup (2). i tin of Tomatoes, ioz. Butter. 2ozs. Tapioca, i Onion. 2pts. Stock. Pepper and Salt. Put the butter, tomatoes and onion (sliced) into a stewpan; cook till tender, but do not brown; rub it through a hair sieve. Pleat the stock, sprinkle in the tapioca, and cook till clear; then add the tomatoes; season, re-heat, and serve with fried bread- Miss M. Perkin. Tomato Soup (3). One tin of tomatoes, lot. of stock, onion, turnip, carrot, celery, mace and peppercorns and a little lemon juice. Thicken it with ioz. flour and ioz. butter; when done strain it and add two table- spoonfuls of cream. Mrs. Tunnakd. Tomato Bisque Soup. iqt. Milk. ipt. tin Tomatoes. 1 tablespoonful Butter. 2 tablespoonfuls Flour. i teaspoonful Caster Sugar, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, i Bay Leaf, i sprig Parsley, i blade Mace. Put -the tomatoes to stew with the bay leaf, parsley and mace; let them stew for 15 minutes. Put the milk on to boil. Beat the butter and flour to a smooth paste; when the milk boils take it off the fire and add the paste of flour and butter and beat very quickly or it will lump; when dissolved return the saucepan to the fire and stir constantly until the mixture thickens. Now pass the tomatoes through a sieve, and if ready to serve the soup, add the sugarIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 12 and baking powder to them, and then the boiling milk. Stir and serve at once. It must not go on the fire after mixing the milk and tomatoes, or it will separate. If you are not ready, let them stand on the fire in their pans and mix when wanted. Tomato Soup with Macaroni. i^lbs. Tomatoes. 2^ozs. Macaroni. ^pt. cold Water, ioz. Butter, foz. Flour. ^pt. Milk (about). Pinch of Salt. Boil macaroni in salt and water till tender. Cook the tomatoes in ^pt. of water until soft; rub through a sieve. Return tomatoes to the saucepan, add butter, seasoning and flour mixed with a little milk. Boil all for eight minutes. Then add macaroni and milk. Do not boil any more or the milk will curdle. Add some cream before serving. Miss M. V. Palmer. Veal Soup. Take some strong veal stock, skin off the fat, add to it some rice, well steeped; then take some ham, cut in pieces, an onion, and a small bit of butter. Let it simmer (not boil) a few minutes, then mix with it three tablespoonfuls of flour; add a little more stock, rub all through a Tammy, and put in a teacupful of cream and serve. Mrs. Colegrave. Vegetable Soup. The hearts of 6 Lettuces cut into pieces. 6 Cucumbers, pared and sliced, ipt. young Peas. 2 large Onions, whole. A little Parsley, chopped fine. Ilb. Butter. Pepper and Salt to taste.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 13 Stew all together, stirring often, for one hour. Have ready 2qts. peas, boiled in a gallon of water; pass them through a .sieve to the water they are boiled in, then put the lettuces to it, and stew it hours. When done take out the onions and put in it a sprig of mint before it is taken off the fire. It is best to do it in an earthen pot in the oven. Half the quantity is enough for one soup. Sept., 1836. Miss A. Hobill. Vegetable Soup (Brunoise). Take equal parts of carrots, turnips, onions and celery, cut them all in the shape of very small dice, put a good piece of butter in a saucepan with a little pepper and salt, and a teaspoonful of powdered lump sugar. Toss the carrots in this till they begin to take colour, then put in the celery, after a little time the onions, and then the turnips. When all the vege- tables are equally coloured add as much stock as you want soup, and set the saucepan by the side of the fire to simmer gently for two hours; then skim and serve. Miss Baxter. White Lentil Soup. ilb. split Lentils. 2 sticks Celery. 2 sprigs Parsley. 1 Onion. |oz. Butter. ioz. Flour. ipt. Milk, skimmed. 3pts. Water. Small blade of Mace. 8 Peppercorns. Salt and Pepper. Wash the lentils in several waters, out on to boil for i£ hours in 3pts. of water, adding the celery, mace, parsley, onions, and peppercorns. Put through a fine wire sieve, rubbing the pulp through with the back of a wooden spoon. Mrs. Tunnard.Additional Recipes, IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OFAdditional Recipes, KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 16 i FISH A Russian Salad. Fill a border mould with aspic jelly (coloured red with a little cochineal) and various cooked vegetables, peas, asparagus points, French beans, etc., arranging them tastefully; then put it on the ice to set. Take the remains of cold salmon and put into a bowl with a few olives, and a few mush- rooms, and about four truffles cut small, and.a tea- spoonful of French caper sauce. Moisten these with a little mayonnaise sauce (also coloured red), and when the border mould is turned out, fill the centre with this mixture and serve. A. King. Boiled Haddock, with Sauee. Choose a medium-sized haddock, wash well, and boil in a frying-pan, with milk and water to cover. When the haddock is done, place on a hot dish and thicken the milk and water with flour, adding plenty of pepper, and pour over the fish, and serve very hot. A most tasty dish. Miss Birch. Dried Haddock and Tomatoes. Fry one minced onion in 2ozs. of butter, add half a tin of tomatoes or 4 fresh ones, cayenne pepper and one haddock, skinned and cut in pieces. Stew slowly for about 15 minutes. Serve very hot on a dish with boiled rice as a border, and some chopped parsley sprinkled over. Mrs. Beale.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Dublin Bay Prawns Casserole. Take five or six prawns out of the shells and put into a deep casserole case, and put the shells and feet and a fish bone into any saucepan with a small piece of onion and 2 peppercorns. Boil these well and strain the liquor, and with it make a good sauce with an ounce of butter and flour. Pass 2d. spawn through the sieve and put into the sauce; pour it over the prawns, and cook gently for about a quarter of an hour. Serve in the casserole. Filet de Sole a la Normande. Take rather large fillets of sole and beat them with a bat; season with salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice; have some potatoes cut about the size of a cork, and roll each piece of fish round, then tie up in a little band of buttered paper; place the fillets into a pan with a little fish stock, and cook for 15 minutes, and when cold remove the potatoes. Make a nice mayonnaise sauce, and have ready a lobster cut up in small pieces; mix a little of the sauce with the lobster, and farce the sole with it; allow this to get quite cold, then coat all over with the remainder of the sauce, and sprinkle a little coral from the lobster on the top, and a small piece of truffle. Serve on a border of aspic and garnish with shreds of cucumber in the centre. Lady Playfair. Fish Cakes. Take |lb. cold fish, 30ZS. suet shred fine, a small lump of butter, a teacupful of breadcrumbs, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of anchovy sauce. Pound all together in a mortar, mix with an egg, divide into small cakes, and fry a light brown. Miss Baxter. l7IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Fish for an Invalid. i white fish (whiting, haddock, etc.) |oz. butter. Clean the fish and thoroughly skin it, and remove the meat in neat fillets. Butter two plates slightly, lay the fillets on one, cover them with the other plate. Set the plates over a pot of boiling water. Steam 20 minutes. If wished a few browned breadcrumbs may be lightly scattered over the fish before cover- ing with the second plate. Mrs. Bell. Fish Macaroni. When a cod has done duty on the table once, and a small portion is left, collect it, chop it down small, add twice its bulk of macaroni well boiled, grate some cheese on it, and mix the whole together; put it in a dish with a few pieces of butter, and having grated a liberal allowance of cheese over the top, brown it before the fire. Mrs. Colegrave. Fish Mooloo. Fry some fish and let it cool. Scrape a fresh cocoa- nut, put a teacupful of hot water into it, rub it well, strain and put it aside; then put two more spoonfuls of water; strain this also. Cut up three or four green chillies, and as many onions as you like with half a garlic. Fry these with a little dripping, and whilst frying add the last of the cocoanut water in with the other ingredients until it is dry; then add the first water of the cocoanut and pour the whole over the fish and serve very hot. Mrs. Ma( namara. iSKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 19 Fish and Oyster Pie. i or iAlbs, white Fish, boiled and allowed to cool. 2doz. fresh Oysters. 3lb. Breadcrumbs. i teaspoonful chopped Parsley. Pepper, Salt, Nutmeg. Sauce. ioz. Butter. ioz. Flour, i gill Milk. i gill Water and Oysterfsi^uor together. Melt the butter, blend in the flour, let it cool; add the milk and a little pepper and salt water, and the oyster liquor. Sprinkle in a little salt and pepper, together with the breadcrumbs. Have ready a grated pie-dish. Sprinkle in this a layer of bread- crumbs, then a layer of fish broken into flaxes, then a few oysters, then a little parsley, pepper and salt, then sauce. Repeat the process and pile bread- crumbs on top and on them place a few pieces of butter. Bake £ hour. Mrs. d'Este Emery. Fresh Herring’s (Baked). 4 fresh Herrings. 2ozs. Butter. Glass of Claret. French Mustard. Clove of Garlic. Chopped Parsley and Tarragon. Clean and wipe the herrings, cut some slantwise incisions in either side, and rub over both sides with the French mustard (or English mustard mixed with tarragon vinegar), into which you have scraped a clove of garlic and a little chopped parsley and tar- ragon. Bake in the oven, with the butter broken over them and a glass of claret poured over, for io minutes; then turn the fish, baste, and bake again for another io minutes. If possible serve in the dish they are baked in. Mrs. Silk.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 20 Fish Pie. 5lb. Flour. 2ozs. Butter, i small filleted fish, i yolk of Egg. i gill Milk. Pepper and Salt. A squeeze of Lemon Juice. A little Cold Water. Rub the flour through a sieve into a basin; put the butter amongst it in lumps; and a squeeze of lemon juice. Make a hole in the centre, and pour in a little water by degrees; mix round gently, take out and put on a board. Roll and fold four times for puff pastry, then cut in two pieces or slices, and put one inside a wetted pie-dish to line it. Scrape the fish and cut it up in small pieces. Place it on the pastry. Beat up the yolk with the milk, put pepper and salt on the fish and a squeeze of lemon juice. Then pour over the egg and milk, ornament with strips of pastry, egg the pastry and cook in the oven till done; serve hot or cold. If the latter, then serve with fresh salad or water cress. Mrs. Bell. Fish Pudding’. ilb. cooked Fish, ilb. boiled Potatoes. ioz. Butter. 2 Eggs. Salt and Pepper. Melt the butter, stir in the chopped fish and mashed potatoes, and bind with beaten egg. Grease a tin, and put mixture on in the shape of a fish; brush over with beaten egg, sprinkle with crumbs, and bake half an hour. A most delicious way for using cooked fish.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL. TO SOUTH LONDON. 21 Fish Souffle. Take the remains of any cold fish, mix with it a little mashed potato and two well-beaten eggs, with suffi- cient milk to make the mixture as thin as batter; pour into a well-oiled mould and steam for half an hour. Miss C. Clf.ments. Gateau de Poisson. Heat a gill of good fish stock, stir in ioz. of butter, and 2ozs. of breadcrumbs, and when it boils add 8ozs. of minced cooked fish, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste, and twP whole eggs. Mix all thoroughly, and steam it an hour in a buttered plain mould. Serve it turned out, with a little butter sauce poured round it, to which should be added a teaspoonful of essence of an- chovies, a squeeze of lemon juice, a tablespoonful of cream, and the yolk of an egg. Mrs. H. W Price. German Stewed Fish. Put on in a stewpan about a cup of water, an onion sliced, a little chopped parsley; when it boils, put in the fish, a piece of butter, pepper, and salt. Let it stew gently until done; then thicken with a little flour in half a cup of milk and some chopped parsley. Serve hot. Mrs. Bernard Myers. Haddock Toast. Take 2ozs. of smoked haddock, free the fish from the bones, mince it finely, and add it to |oz. of butter (previously melted in a saucepan); add two eggs unbeaten, and a little pepper. Stir over a gentle heat till set, but watch very carefully that it does not burn. Serve hot on small pieces of buttered toast. Mrs. Bernard Myers.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Irish Fish Pie. Vermicelli (boiled). Fillets of Sole or Whiting. Butter. Breadcrumbs. Parsley, chopped. Pepper and Salt. |pt. Tomato Sauce. Line the bottom of a fire-proof dish with vermicelli which has been boiled in salt and water, drained, and tossed in a little butter. Brush each fillet with a little butter, then dip in a mixture of bread, parsley, pepper, and salt; fill the dish with fillets, and pour over the sauce. Spread more cooked vermicelli on top, and sprinkle with breadcrumbs, parsley, and small pieces of butter. Bake in a moderate oven for half an hour. Garnish with parsley, and serve. M. V. Palmer. Lobster Quenelles. i large Lobster, i teaspoonful Breadcrumbs. A piece of Butter size of an Egg. i Egg. Cream. Take the meat from a large lobster, pound it in a mortar very fine, adding a teaspoonful of bread- crumbs, the egg, piece of butter. Pass all through a sieve, and season with salt and cayenne pepper to taste, and mix it with the spawn of the lobster rubbed through a hair sieve, and mix with half a teaspoonful of cream. Shape your quenelles with a dessert spoon, and poach them for five minutes. Quenelles may be served hot or cold, and set ill aspic jelly.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 23 Oyster Fritters. Drain the liquor from the oysters, and to a teacupful of this add the same quantity of milk, three eggs, a little salt, and flour enough for a thin batter. Have ready in the frying-pan a few spoonfuls of lard, heat very hot, and drop the oyster batter in by the table- spoonful. Fry a spoonful first to satisfy yourself that the lard is hot enough, and that the fritter is of the right size and consistency. Take rapidly from the pan as soon as they are done to a yellow brown, and send to table very hot. Some fry the oyster whole, enveloped in batter, one in each fritter. In this case the batter should be thicker than if chopped oysters were to be added. Miss Baxter. Oyster Kromeskies. Take I dozen oysters, place in a saucepan with the liquor, bring to boil, then strain the oysters, cut into pieces. Prepare a panada of ioz. Butter. ioz. Flour. 1 gill Cream. Liquor of Oysters. Pepper and Salt. Teaspoonful of Lemon Juice. When this mixture has boiled for a few minutes, mix with the pieces of oysters. Lay out on a plate to cool. Make a frying batter of 6ozs. Flour, i gill tepid Water, i tablespoonful Salad Oil. Pinch of Salt. Yolk of i Egg. Mix these in a basin, whip up whites of two eggs, add to the batter. Take a piece of fat bacon, cut very thin slices, 3m. long i|in. broad; form the oyster mixture into corks, envelop them in slices of bacon, dip in frying batter, and fry. Mrs. Rooke.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 24 Oyster Cutlets. x|doz. Oysters. .ijozs. Butter. i|ozs. Flour. 1 gill Fish Stock. 2 chopped Truffles. 5 teaspoonful Lemon Juice. 5 wineg'lassful of Sherry. Pepper, Cayenne, Salt. Yolks of 2 Eggs. Melt the butter, blend in the flour, stir in the fish stock, and stir till it boils. Remove it from the fire and add the sherry, truffles, lemon, salt, pepper, yolks, and the oysters cut into pieces. Put this mixture on a plate to g'et cold, and if it is too moist mix a few breadcrumbs with it; it usually requires about 3 ozs. Flour the board and form into small cutlets. Brush over each cutlet with eggs, then toss it in the breadcrumbs and fry in hot fat. Sauce. Jpt. Oyster Liquor and Beards put into a saucepan with a little Onion, Celery, Parsley, and Thyme. Jpt. Fish Stock. Boil and then strain. 5OZ. Flour, soz. Butter. Melt the butter, blend in the flour, then pour in the strained stock and stir until it boils. Mrs. d'Este Emery. Plaiee with Tomatoes and Onions. Butter a pie-dish, lay in a thick layer of sliced tomatoes and onions, then a layer of plaice, filleted and skinned (all black skin must be carefully re- moved), then another layer of tomatoes and onions; sprinkle over a light layer of breadcrumbs, with a little grated cheese and butter over them. Bake about half to threequarters of an hour in a moderate oven. Mrs. Abbot.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 25 Scalloped Lobster. Chop the lobster fine, with a small piece of parsley and shalot. Then make some melted butter of flour, butter, one tablespoonful of stock, and a little an- chovy sauce; mix with lobster and put it back into the shells, sprinkle a few breadcrumbs over the top, and place two small lumps of butter on each quarter; put into the oven and bake until thoroughly hot. Mrs. Langley. Sole a la Rouennais. i filleted Sole. Lobster panada, prepared as follows:—Melt £o‘z. butter, blend in ioz. flour, add £ gill of milk, boil; add 4 tablcspoonfuls (or |lb.) of pounded lobster, a little lemon juice, salt, pepper and cayenne. Place a layer of this mixture on each fillet, fold in the end, and double the fillet over in half. Lay them on a greased baking sheet and squeeze a little lemon juice over them, and cover them with greased paper. Bake for io minutes. Mrs. d'Este Emery. Stewed Soles. Cut the heads, fins, and tails off a pair of soles and put them in a stewpan with a glass of sherry, and a lump of butter the size of a walnut; fry it till all the sherry is dried into the bones; now dredge in some flour and stir to it ipt. of stock, i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and i tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, and i tablespoonful of ketchup; stew it till the bones are all to pieces, then strain it. Cut each sole in three or four pieces, fry them in egg and bread- crumbs, and put them in a stewpan and pour the gravy over them. Stew gently for half an hour and serve.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 26 Stuffed Fillets of Haddock. Take some filleted haddock from which the black skin has been removed, squeeze some lemon juice over it; prepare some stuffing of breadcrumbs, chopped parsley, mixed herbs and butter; mix these into a paste by pressing the butter into the other ingredients with a knife. Cut the fillets in half, and into each piece roll a little stuffing; put the fillets into a baking tin of boiling dripping, and bake for 15 to 20 minutes. Serve the fish with parsley or anchovy sauce poured over it. Mrs. Abbot. To Cook Plaice. Take a fine plaice, butter it thickly over, then sprinkle with breadcrumbs, chopped onions, parsley, pepper and salt, and bake it. Serve with the gravy that comes from it. Miss A. Todd. To Dress Crabs. Get two good crabs, take all the flesh out of the body and legs, pound it in a mortar to a paste, add 3 large handfuls of fresh breadcrumbs, and 3 table- spoonfuls of good cream, half the rind and juice of a lemon and cayenne to taste. When all these are mixed well together, put the mixture into the shells, which must be buttered first; shake breadcrumbs over .them, and brown them before the fire from 15 to 20 minutes. Mrs. Shepherd.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 27 Additional Recipes. .IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 28 Additional Recipes.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 29 SAUCES. American or Sharp Sauce. -Jib. Butter. Jib. Caster Sugar. Brandy or Rum to flavour. Beat the butter to a cream, then add the sugar gradually, beating all the time; afterwards flavour with brandy or rum. Miss Elderton. Bechamel Sauce. Put into a saucepan half an onion, 3 tablespoonfuls of butter that has been worked with 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, a large slice of carrot, a bunch of parsley, thyme and a bay leaf tied together, a small piece ot mace, a little salt and grated nutmeg, and 1 pint of white stock. When boiling set the saucepan at the side of the fire and let the sauce simmer for 30 minutes, stirring frequently. When cooked, mix with the sauce £ pint of cream, boil it up again and strain through a fine hair sieve. Miss M. Perkin. Bread Sauce (1). Cut into four a good-sized onion, put it into a pan with 1 pint of milk and a few peppercorns. Let it simmer till the milk tastes of the onion; strain and pour it over a breakfastcupful of bread- crumbs. Cover and let it stand. Add a little powdered mace and 2ozs. of butter, and boil to a proper consistency. Mrs. Shepherd.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Miss M. Perkin. Bread Sauce (2.) Slice white bread and onions (according to taste) into a saucepan, fill it with milk and let it boil till tne onions are quite tender. Work it well through a fine sieve, add butter, a little good cream, a very little pepper and salt, let it boil for a few minutes, and serve up hot. Miss C. Clements. Eg’g* Sauce for Fish. Four yolks of eggs, stir till quite thick, add i tea- spoonful of flour, juice of I lemon, a pinch of sugar and i teaspoonful of butter and |pt. of cold water. Put to cook, stirring all the time until it begins to boil. Serve at once. Miss E. D. Cheshire. Foam Sauce. Beat the whites of 2 eggs lightly, mix with them 1 breakfastcupful of castor sugar, and beat again for a few minutes. Then add the strained juice of a lemon and ^ pint of boiling milk, and serve at once. Miss M. Perkin. Hollandaise Sauce. 102. Butter. 5OZ. Flour. 5 pint Milk. Yolks of 2 Eggs. Juice of | Lemon. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and stir them together until they become smooth, add the milk, and continue to stir until the sauce boils, then drop in the yolks of the eggs whole and beat well and quickly; then add the strained juice of the lemon and serve.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 31 Horseradish Sauce. 1 Egg. 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar. Mustard. Horseradish. Milk (or Cream). To a teacupful of milk (or cream) add the yolk of i egg, 2 tablespoonfuls of vinegar, very little mustard, and as much grated horseradish as will make it the consistency of onion sauce. It may be used hot or cold. Matrimony Sauce for Vegetables. Make J pint of melted butter sauce, using plenty of butter, season with a pinch of salt, and add sufficient vinegar and crystallized sugar to give it piquancy. Miss M. Perkin. Mayonnaise Sauce. Put the yolk of a fresh egg into a basin and add to it drop by drop a small teacupful of salad oil, stirring briskly all the time. When all the oil is used and the sauce about the consistency of thick cream, add a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar, the same of plain vinegar, and about a tablespoonful of good cream. Miss H. Clements Melted Butter. ioz. Butter. 5OZ. Flour. ^ pint Milk Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and stir well; then add the milk and stir till it boils and is smooth; add seasoning. Miss M. Perkin.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 32 Mushroom Ketchup. Clear a peck or more of mushrooms from dirt, etc., and lay them in an earthen pan with plenty of salt till morning, then break and put them in a stewpan to boil some time, stirring with a silver spoon (which should remain quite bright); strain through muslin, leave to settle, then pour off clear; boil again with ioz. of whole pepper, Joz. ginger ; boil quarter of an hour, strain, and when cold put into pint bottles with a bit of mace, 6 cloves. Cork well. Mrs. Barnard. Piquant Sauce. (Excellent with Boiled Fish or Mutton.) Put i oz. butter, i tablespoonful vinegar, 3 ozs. water, J teaspoonful flour, yolk of 1 egg, and a little salt into a saucepan; place on the fire and stir till thick, but do not let it boil, then take off the fire and slov.ly stir in a teaspoonful of lemon juice. Miss Bircii. Salad Sauce. 4 tablespoonfuls of Cream. 1 tablespoonful of Vinegar. 1 teaspoonful of made Mustard. Mix all together and add a little salt, cayenne pepper, and pounded lump sugar to taste. Miss C. Clements. Salad Dressing* (1). Beat 3 eggs together, mix | teaspoonful dry mus- tard, pepper and salt to taste, 1 dessert-spoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful butter, i cup vinegar to- gether, and add to the eggs. Turn into a double boiler, and stir till thick. Cool, and thin with cream or milk when wanted. If using this hot for fish sauce, add the cream very carefully, or it will curdle.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. c 33 Salad Dressing- (2). 2 cold boiled Potatoes. Yolks of 2 hard-boiled Eggs. i teaspoon ful Salt. i teaspoonful dry Mustard. 1 teaspoon ful Harvey’s Sauce. 2 dessert-spoonfuls powdered Sugar. 3 tablespoon ids Vinegar. \ pint Cream. i tablespoonful cold Water. Put the yolks of the eggs and the potatoes through a wire sieve, add the salt, mustard and sugar, and mix all smoothly with the water; add the Harvey’s sauce, and gradually mix in the vinegar; when all is settled, gradually add the cream, stirring sharply all the time. This makes about a pint, which if kept in a stoppered bottle, will keep good for a month. Sauce Bearnaise. Beat the yolks of 5 eggs in a saucepan, and add i tablespoonful of butter and a pinch of salt; stir the eggs over a slow fire till they begin to thicken, then take them off and stir in two more tablespoonfuls of butter; continue stirring at the side of the fire till the butter is dissolved. Season the sauce with a little chopped fine herbs and parsley, and then stir in i tablespoonful of French vineg'ar. Miss M. Perkin. Sauce for Cold Salmon. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs well with 3 tablespoonfuls of cream, season with salt and a small quantity of cayenne pepper; pour it into a lined saucepan and boil it over the fire until it thickens and is on the point of boiling; then take it off and leave the sauce until cold, stirring it occasionally. Mix with x wineglassful of vinegar and serve. Miss M. Perkin.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 34 Miss M. Perkin. A Good Sauce for Boiled Fish. i tablespoonful of Butter, i tablespoonful of Flour. Grated yolk of a hard-boiled Egg. 3 drops of Lemon Juice. A little Cayenne. Clear Chicken Broth. Put the butter and flour into a saucepan and let them simmer for two minutes, then add the chicken broth, a little at a time, stirring constantly, the grated yolk of egg, lemon juice and cayenne. This should be the consistency of thick cream—serve hot. This * sauce can be served with any kind of white fish. Mrs. MacAlustf.r, per Miss Monk. Sauce Flamande (for Cod Fish). Put from io to 12 ozs. of butter into a stewpan and let it melt; when it is quite hot add to it slowly three or four tablespoonfuls of mustard, the juice of a lemon, a pinch of finely chopped parsley, a little grated nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Mix all well together. Miss M. Perkin. Sweet Sauce (1). £pt. boiling Milk. 1 Egg. 1 wineglassful of Sherry. Sugar to taste. Beat the egg well, beat in the sherry; pour on the milk (which must be almost boiling), and while doing so whisk the sauce quickly till it froths. It must be served immediately.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 35 Sweet Sauce (2). Boil ioz. of lump sugar in a tablespoonful of cold water until there is only one tablespoonful of thick syrup left. Add'to it a little sherry, one tablespoon- ful of marmalade (without chips) and a squeeze of lemon juice. Miss M. Perkin. Thick Sauce. Two ozs. butter whipped to a cream; add 2ozs. caster sugar, and lastly, one wineglassful of sherry, drop by drop, beating continually. Miss M. Perkin. Tomato Sauce i(l). (For Winter use.) 4lbs. Tomatoes (remove the seeds). ^lb. Onions, io Shalots. 6 small pieces of Garlic. A little Mace. ^ teaspoonful of Peppercorns. Put all together with a little vinegar. Stir until soft, then run through a sieve. Add a quart of vinegar, a little red pepper; boil half-an-hour and bottle when cold. Mrs. Langley. Tomato Sauce (2). 2doz. ripe Tomatoes. 2 Onions. 6 red Peppers. 4 tablespoonfuls brown Sugar. * 3 tablespoonfuls Salt. 3 large cupfuls of Vinegar. Boil slowly for three hours. Keep in covered jars. M. YV.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 36 Tomato Sauce (for keeping*). Boil tomatoes with a little sugar to a pulp. To every 2lbs. of sieved pulp add £ tumblerful of chilli vinegar. Season with onions or to taste. > Miss M. Perkin. Walnut Ketchup. To 6qts. of juice pressed out of walnuts add: — ilb. of Salt. 4ozs. of Anchovies. isozs. of Mace. i^ozs. of Ginger. i^ozs. of Long Pepper. jgozs. of black Peppercorns. i^ozs. of Cloves. ioz. of Nutmeg. i^ozs. of Garlic. i^ozs. of Shallots. 2 sticks of Horseradish. Bruise the spices and put them into a bag. Boil all together for three-quarters of an hour, taking off the scum. Then pour it through a flannel bag, let it stand a day or so, and then bottle it for use. Miss A. Foster. White Sauce. Take 3 tablespoonfuls of flour, 2 ozs. butter, and rub together well; mix cold milk with it; add a little lemon peel, salt and mace. Boil one pint of new milk and pour it on the mixture until it is the right thickness; add a little lemon juice, a few mush- rooms and a little vinegar. Miss M. Perkin.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 37 Additional Recipes.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Additional Recipes.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 39 MEATS AND ENTREES. Bredee. (/I favourite Cape dish.) Take 2lbs. thick ribs of mutton, cut into small pieces, and put into a stewpan with 2 onions cut small. Let meat and onion fry a nice brown, but don’t burn. Take 12 or more large tomatoes, cut into slices, add to the meat, with a little salt and red chilli; let the whole stew gently. If too watery remove the lid of the saucepan, till there is a rich gravy. Bredees should be made in shallow sauce- pans, as deep ones make it too watery. Mrs. McD. Troup. Beef au Gratin. Cut cold roast beef or mutton into thin neat slices and put them on a dish, overlapping each other. The same dish must be used on which they will go to table. Season them with chopped parsley and escha- lot, pepper and salt. Moisten them all over with good gravy or water mixed with Harvey’s sauce and ketchup. Strew some brown raspings over them, and sprinkle over a little dissolved butter. Put them in a hot oven for 10 minutes, and when quite hot send to table. Mrs. Hawkesworth.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 40 Beef Roll. ilb. lean Beef, ilb. Bacon. Alb. fine Breadcrumbs. 1 Nutmeg (grated). A teaspoonful Salt. 5 teaspoonful Pepper. 2 Eggs. Put the bacon and beef twice through the mincer, then mix with it the beaten eggs, and add the other ingredients. Roll it in the shape of a big sausage, put it in a pudding cloth, and boil for 2 hours. Mrs. John Walters. Bengal Cutlets. Take veal, lamb, or a fowl, boned; cut the cutlets and spread a little curdled milk or dye over each, and pat them well all over with a blunt chopper, almost to mincing, on both sides. Mix a large teaspoonful of pounded green ginger, or take a few pinches of dry ginger, and a spoonful of onions, with black pepper, cayenne, and salt to the taste. Mix all with an egg. When the cutlets are well patted, dip them or wet them all with the mixture. Have ready plenty of grated bread; roll the cutlets in it till well covered, forming them into a neat shape with the back of the knife. Melt 30ZS. of butter in a frying pan; when boiling, put in the cutlets; fry them a light brown. If served dry, throw fried parsley over them; if with sauce, make it, by boiling the bones with an onion, salt, and pepper, thickened with flour and butter, which pour over the cutlets. Warm them a few minutes. The juice of tomatoes makes a good addition if liked. Receipt by a Hindoo Cook of Dr. Playfair's Mother's. Braised Loin of Mutton. Trim and prepare a loin of mutton for braising with carrot, onion, celery, a faggot of parsley, 3 cloves,KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. and 2 blades of mace. Moisten it with a large ladleful of stock; cover it with a piece of buttered paper, as well as the lid of the brasier; set it on a moderate fire to braise gently for about 2 hours. When done, glaze and dish it up, and garnish it round with every variety of small vegetable in season. Sauce it with a rich brown gravy, and send it to table. Mrs. Tunnard. Breast of Mutton a la Ste. Menoult. Stew the mutton with carrots, onions, and spices, in gravy, and when tender drain it and take out the bones. Flatten the meat between two dishes, and when cold cut it into the form of cutlets or hearts; brush these with the beaten yolk of an egg, roll in grated breadcrumbs, then in clarified butter, and again in breadcrumbs. Bake in an oven till of a fine brown colour, and serve with an Italian or any other sauce. Mrs. Macnamara. Bubble and Squeak. Cut in pieces, convenient for frying, cold roast beef or boiled beef; add pepper and salt, *and fry them. Boil a cabbage and some potatoes, mix well together, and chop small; and fry with a little pepper and salt. Keep stirring that all may be equally done; sprinkle over cabbage, when taken from the fire, a very little vinegar, only enough to give it a slightly acid taste. Place cab- bage in centre of dish, and arrange meat neatly round it. Creme de Veau. Pass ilb. of minced and pounded veal and Jib. of ham (also minced and pounded) through a wire sieve; add 2ozs. of butter, 2 eggs, well beaten, i a 4iIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 42 pint of whipped cream, a little cayenne, salt and mace. Pound all well together, and put into an entree mould; steam 20 minutes; serve with good white sauce. Miss Baxter. Cambridge Sausages. lib. pork fat and ham, ilb. veal, ilb. of beef suet; to be well minced. Add Jib. bread, crumbled through a wire sieve, the rind of half a lemon well chopped, a little salt, nutmeg and pepper and a few sage leaves chopped very fine. Mix all well together and put it into skins. Miss Baxter. Cassolettes of Cucumber. 8ozs. cold Chicken and Tongue, or Salmon, cut in small pieces. 1 large Cucumber. 2 tablespoonfuls of Mayonnaise Sauce. The yolk of 1 hard-boiled Egg rubbed through a sieve. Cut the cucutnber into 2-inch lengths; with a tea- spoon or narrow knife scoop out the inside; with a pair of scissors vandyke the edge; fill the cavity with the salmon or chicken, mixed with a suffi- cient mayonnaise sauce to make a nice consistency, adding pepper and salt to taste; sprinkle over the top, the yolk of egg; stand each cassolette on a slice of tomato, the same size as cucumber. Arrange in a circle with cress in the centre. Miss M. Harben. Devil Mixture (For heating up cold meat or fowl with.) \ teaspoonful ground black Pepper. J teaspoonful Salt. Large pinch of Cayenne. 1 teaspoonful made Mustard. ^oz. Butter. Mix all together and spread on the meat and grill or fry it. Miss M. Harben.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 43 Devilled Mutton. Slices of cold Mutton. 2 tablespoonfuls of Butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of Vinegar. 1 tablespoonful of Red Currant Jelly. Mustard and Salt. Melt the butter in a frying-pan. When it simmers add the mutton, heat slowly. Take the mutton out of the fat before it begins to crisp; add the vinegar, jelly, mustard and salt to the butter. Boil up and pour over the meat. Miss V. Merriman. Excellent Beef Galantine. ilb. lean Beef, minced fine. Mb. lean Ham, minced fine. Mb. Breadcrumbs. 2 Eggs. Pepper and Salt to taste. Mix all well together, adding a little good stock. Tie in the form of a roly-poly in a cloth, tightly, and boil in stock for over 2 hours. Take out of stock, press info a nice shape, and glaze when cold. Miss Perkin. Frieaseed Sweetbread. Place on a hot dish some rounds of toast with a slice of fried bacon on each. Parboil a sweetbread, cut it into slices, and fry it in bacon fat; arrange it on the dish with the bacon and toast. Melt a little butter, add the juice of half a lemon; pour over and serve. Miss F. Lamble. Fiseatelles of Veal. 1 lb. of Veal (free from skin and fat). 40ZS. Beef Suet. 2 Eggs (well beaten). The crumb of a id. Roll soaked in Milk. Pepper, Salt, a grate of Nutmeg. Cayenne.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 44 Mix all the ingredients together, having first of all minced up the veal very fine. Make up into the size of sweetbreads; fry them first, and then stew them for half an hour in a rich gravy. Mushrooms can be added to the gravy. Mr. Elin. German Roast. ilb. of minced Steak, and equal bulk (not weight) of Breadcrumbs. i teaspoonful of Salt. Some Pepper, an Onion, an Egg, and a little sweet Milk. Mix the meat, breadcrumbs, salt and pepper; have the onion boiled for a few minutes, chop it finely and add it; bind it with the egg, adding as much milk as will make it into a stiff paste. Grease a roasting-tin, shape the mixture into a square loaf on it and cook in the oven for about an hour. Dish in a hot dish, pour away the dripping and make a rich brown gravy with the sediment, thickening, pepper and salt. Put the meat in a hot oven first, and reduce the heat after it is slightly coloured. Miss Baii.ey. German Sausage. ilb. Beef Steak, fib. Streaky Bacon. ^lb. Breadcrumbs. 1 teaspoonful Pepper. 2 teaspoonfuls Salt. 2 Eggs. Nutmeg. Mince meat and mix all ingredients with eggs. Flour a board and roll ingredients into a large sausage. Tie in a cloth and boil for 2 or 3 hours. Turn out and use when cold. Miss M. V. Palmer.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 45 Hunter’s Pie. Take the best end of a neck of mutton, cut into cutlets and braise for half an hour with some onions cut up, pepper and salt. I ake some potatoes, boil and season. Butter a dish and line it with the potatoes and put in the mutton and bake for l hour. Cut a hole in the top and add some good gravy. Ham Sausage. Remains of a boiled Ham (ill), or more, minced), ilb. minced Steak, i breakfastcupful Breadcrumbs, i teaspoonful black Pepper. Sail, Nutmeg, and Mace. 1 dessert-spoonful Vinegar and Ketchup. 2 Eggs. Beat the eggs slightly, mix all together, roll into a sausage, put buttered paper round, tie tightly in a pudding-cloth, and boil for 3 hours. Glaze with gelatine and bovril when cold, or dust with browned breadcrumbs. Mrs. H. W. Price. Hot Pot. ilb. tender Rump Steak. 4.J1 bs. Mutton steak from the centre of leg (a chump chop will do). 1 doz. Oysters and their liquor. 1 punnet of Mushrooms, t teaspoonful of Tarragon Vinegar. 1 tablespoon ful of Mushroom Ketchup. I teaspoon ful of Chili Vinegar. A little Walnut Ketchup. Pepper and Salt to taste. Dust the meat with flour, stew it for 4 hours in a jar secured by a pudding-cloth over the lid or by means of a paste, skim the fat nicely from it. Miss A. Todd.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 46 Hotch Poteh. 3lbs. neck of Mutton or Lamb. 6 young Turnips. 6 young Carrots. 6 young Onions. 2pts. Green Peas. 2^qts. Water, i Lettuce, i Cauliflower, i handful Parsley. Salt. Put rather more than half of the meat in the pot when the water is hot; add salt, and when the water boils, skim carefully. Boil one hour, then add the remainder of the meat cut up in small chops, add turnips and carrots cut in dice, all onions cut small, and half the peas; boil half an hour longer. Chop up the lettuce, divide the cauliflower in sprigs, chop the parsley, and add to the soup with the rest of the peas; boil another half-hour. Season, serve up the mutton on a dish with chops round and keep hot, and serve the hotch-potch in a soup tureen. Hag’g'is (Scotch, Simple). Take 2 or 3 handfuls of meal, brown in oven; add to this Jib. suet minced fine, and any cold meat minced. Season with a little minced parsley, onion, salt, and pepper. Mix with a brpakfastcupful of water, then put in a dish, or pan with a closed lid, boil 3 hours. Or Jib. minced suet, 10 tablespoonfuls of oatmeal, pepper and salt, and mix well together. Fill, not too full, a few of the small bags of the sheep, got at the butcher’s (well cleaned). Sew up with needle and thread, prick over to prevent bursting, and boil in potato soup. (Makes a capital dinner for children.)KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 47 Indian Hash for Venison or Mutton. Cut the remains of a joint of venison, or any tender cut of mutton or lamb, into long, thin fingers, 2 or 3 inches long, arid quite tree from skin, fat or gristle. Sprinkle with a little fine flour and lay aside. Pour some good brown stock, well cleared, into a stew- pan with a small piece of glaze and I tablespoonful of currant jelly. Plave ready some shredded slices of a large Spanish onion, cook these with the stock and jelly till quite tender, and boil up; then add a claret- glassful of port wine, and lay in this sauce the sliced meat and allow all to boil up together once. Re- move from the fire and serve very hot, garnished with fried sippets of toast, dipped in the wine and melted jelly. Mrs. Macnamara. Isle of Wight Timbale. Mince up any remains of cold beef, fat and lean to- gether. To every pound of mince add ilb. of bread- crumbs soaked in a little warm stock. Celery salt to taste. Mix all together, and put in a plain mould that has been buttered, first putting hard-boiled egg, chopped in slices, and chopped parsley at the bottom of the mould. Steam i hour. Turn out and pour tomato sauce round. Miss Macpherson. Jugged Steak. Cut a piece of beef steak into nice square pieces, roll them round your finger; take a deep stone jar, pile the rolls one above the other; add two whole onions, one glass of port wine, pepper and salt to taste, a few peppercorns, no water; cover close. Put jar into boiling water, and stew till tender. This resembles jugged hare. Mrs. H. W. Price.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 48 Kidneys with Macaroni. Cook 40ZS. of macaroni, broken into convenient pieces, in boiling water. Skin 2 or 3 mutton kid- neys, remove the fat and cut them into thin slices; season with salt, cayenne and finely-minced herbs; fry them on both sides in butter, then stew them in ^ pint of gravy, well flavoured with fresh tomatoes, or with conserve de tonrates, and a little basil; dish with a layer of the macaroni over them and the gravy poured over; add pepper, salt and some grated Par- mesan cheese; brown with a salamander. Miss Baxter. Kidneys a la Brochette. Plunge some mutton kidneys in boiling water; open them down the centre, but do not separate them; peel and pass a skewer across them to keep them open. Add pepper and salt and dip them into melted butter. Broil them over a clear fire on both sides, doing the cut side first; remove the skewers, have ready some maitre d’hdtcl butter, put a small piece in the hollow of each kidney, and serve very hot. Maitre d’Hotel Butter.—Beat butter up with chopped parsley, salt, pepper and a little lemon juice. Miss Baxter. Lobseouse. Cut cold meat (beef is the best) into small, square, thick pieces. Cut potatoes in slices and boil them with the meat. Flavour with a little onion, pepper and salt. In about \ hour it is browned at the top, when it must be served up in a large saucer or basin. Miss A. Hobill. Lunch Brawn. 1 Cow Heel (or 2 Pig’s Feet), ilb. shin of Beef. Scraps of Ham. Herbs, Thyme, etc. J-Tard Ebg, if liked, to ornament.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 49 Stew meat and heel together slowly with some water, herbs, and ham; pepper and salt (a little cay- enne is good). When well cooked, cut np meat into fairly small pieces, pouring liquor and meat into a shape. Turn out the next day, and garnish with parsley and little rolls of cold ham Mrs. Hawkeswortii. Leg* of Mutton a la Meg Dod. Hang the joint as long as possible without spoiling. Half roast it, then score it on both sides, as if for grilling, but not deep enough to touch the bone. Melt in a pan 4 anchovies, chopped fine, add pepper and salt. Place a clean dish under the joint and cook before a good fire till done, basting continually with the following sauce: — Sauce. The melted Anchovies. Apt. of Port Wine. Apt. of good Gravy. 1 tablespoonful of Mushroom Ketchup, i tablespoon ful of Walnut Ketchup. Enough Cayenne Pepper to cover a 6d. A small bunch of Herbs. Serve on a very hot dish which has been rubbed over with garlic. Strain the sauce and pour it hot over the joint, and serve. Mrs. Macnamara. Loin of Mutton a la Venaison. Take the skin off a loin of mutton of about 61bs. weight and flour it; put it into a stewpan, lean end downwards, with a pint and a half of water, an onion, stuck with eight or ten cloves, a little salt, whole pepper and allspice, 6 corns of each. Let it stew gently for an hour and a quarter, then turn it fat downwards; add 2 small glasses of port wine,IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 50 2 teaspoonfuls of walnut pickle, 2 of anchovy, and a little cayenne pepper, and stew it gently for an hour and a quarter. Then take it out and brown it before the fire with breadcrumbs. While that is doing, skim all the fat off the gravy, which should be served in a tureen; currant jelly should be served with it. One or two kidneys should be stewed with the mutton, but not sent to table. Mrs. Flux. Mushroom Pie. Fry very gently about 24 mushrooms in a little salt and butter, until they give a pleasant smell; then put them into a piedish with salt, pepper, a wine- glassful of cream, 2 of port wine, and quite a tumblerful of tomato juice, or peeled slices of the fruit. Cover with a light puff paste and bake. Mrs. Shepherd. Macaroni a l’ltalienne, lib. Macaroni, jib. Butter. ^ an Onion. Grated Cheese. 6 or 7 large Tomatoes. Boil the macaroni in a great deal of water and salt, but do not break the pipes, or do it too much; then put into a stewpan the butter, the onion chopped fine, and the pulp of the tomatoes, that have been previously boiled and passed through a sieve. Stew till the onions are quite done. Drain the macaroni dry and put it in the stewpan with the other ingre- dients, and warm it up. Just before serving add some grated cheese and salt, and send spine grated cheese to table with it in a small glass dish. Miss A. Todd.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 51 Meat Jelly. Dissolve ioz. gelatine'in cold water, add a pint of boiling water and the whites of 2 eggs; boil until clear, colour with mushroom ketchup or Worcester sauce and strain; add, when cooler, i dessert-spoon- ful of vinegar; when half cold partly fill a plain mould, then add layers of minced veal and hard- boiled eggs in slices and tiny bunches of parsley; fill up with the rest of the jelly. Turn out when wanted. Macaroni Scallops. 30ZS. Macaroni. 3 or 4 Tomatoes. Butter, grated Cheese, Sail, Pepper, and Breadcrumbs. Break the macaroni small, and boil it in water and salt till tender; skin and mash the tomatoes to a pulp and mix with the macaroni. Butter some scallop shells or small pans. Put in a layer of macaroni and tomatoes and cheese, with seasoning, then cover with breadcrumbs and butter. Bake about 20 minutes till brown. Serve in pans or shells. Mrs. Abbot. Mock Venison. Take a 6 lb. leg of mutton, cut off all the fat, and lard it. Pound together 12 or 15 cloves, \ nut- meg, and 1 teaspoonful coriander seed. Cut -|lb. fresh pork into strips, strew spices over it, also pepper and salt to taste. Put the leg in a large enamelled dish and cover it with spices and vinegar. Leave this for 3 or 4 days, turning daily. Put into a flat baking dish and roast with vinegar, etc., and 1 large onion. No water to be added. As soon as it begins to roast add 1 teaspoonful brown sugar, 2 teaspoonfuls flour, mixed with a little vinegar, and a little port wine. Baste continually. Mrs. McD. Troup.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 52 Moek Turtle Pie. Make an extra rich hash of a calf’s head, cutting the pieces from the cheek, 2\ to 3 inches long and nearly 2 inches wide. Then slice the tongue and cut into large-sized shapes. Prepare brain cakes, force- meat balls and egg balls (as per instructions given). Make an extra strong stock with eight calves’ feet, season it highly, simmer until the meat begins to drop away from the bones, strain through a coarse sieve, so as to get a very thick stock, passing as much of the dissolved meat through as possible. Line a deep pie-dish with a thick and rich pie-pastry, and arrange in it the hash, egg, and meat balls, and brain cakes, with some 20 or 30 green leaves of spinach, cut up to about the size and shape of the meat. Pour over the whole as much stock as will fill the dish, cover with pastry, and bake. Force-Meat Balls Use half a pound of beef and add half a pound of udder-mince, and pound to pulp in a mortar; re- move all parts not pulped. Mix with it finely-grated crumbs of a slice of stale bread, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley. Soften the whole with milk or gravy. Add pepper and salt. Rub the whole well together and add the yolks and whites of 2 raw eggs, well beaten up, then make into balls. Eg'g'-Balls. Grate down to a powder or paste the yolks of 4 hard- boiled eggs, add to it one teaspoonful of very finely- sifted flour, a little white pepper and salt, some tender parsley, finely chopped; pound (mixing all zvell together) with the yolk of a raw egg. Roll into small balls and boil for 2 or 3 minutes. Mrs, Macnamaka. Oxfordshire Bacon Pudding*. Line a pudding basin with suet crust; cut off the rind and scrape Tib. of streaky bacon: cut in small pieces;KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 53 put a layer of bacon at the bottom, then slice up 3 large onions, a good teaspoonful of chopped sage, pepper and salt to taste. hill your pudding basin with alternate layers of bacon and onions; cover over with suet crust as for a beef-steak pudding; tie over a floured doth; boil 3 hours. Or it may be made as a jam roll, only spread on your suet crust, bacon and sliced onions instead of jam. Miss Emma Durham. Oeufs en darioles a la Portuguese. Eggs. Chopped Ham, Truffle and Parsley. Tomato Sauce. Butter some small dariole moulds and sprinkle thickly with the chopped ham, truffle and parsley. Break a new laid egg in each, and stand the mould in a Stewpan, with water reaching nearly to the top of the moulds and cook slowly in the oven till the eggs are lightly set. Turn out the eggs on to a dish and pour tomato sauce round. Serve very hot. Lady Playfair. Pish Pash. Take a fowl or a bit of mutton, boil it in a quart of water till tender, take it out, and add 30ZS. of rice, an onion and a few peppercorns; boil it till it is quite a mash, return the meat; warm it before serving. Receipt by a Hindoo Cook of Dr. Playfair's Mother’s. Potemkin Pie. 'The hearts of whole cabbages parboiled and the water drained from them, a few thick slices of cold fat ham or bacon, cold meat of any sort, game or fowl; to be all chopped very fine and seasoned with aIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 54 little chopped onion, majoram, parsley, half a nut- meg, pepper or cayenne. Place these ingredients in a dish, pour over them a little melted butter and good gravy, but not enough to make it liquid. Cover with a good plain paste, and serve hot or cold. Mrs. Rooke. Polenta. Boil a teacupful of polenta in plain water, stirring all the time, till thoroughly cooked. Mix with it some grated Parmesan cheese and a good piece of butter. Serve very hot with good gravy flavoured with “ Conserve de Tomates ” poured over, and with roast pigeons or any other small birds, mutton cutlets or croquettes of meat on the top. Miss Baxter. Reform Cutlets. Mutton cutlets dressed in the usual way. Have ready a sauce made of i pint of stock, thickened with arrowroot; add a teaspoonful of tomato sauce, a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, a teaspoonful of Read- ing sauce, a little sugar and a little pepper and salt. Then have some carrots cut in strips and the whites of 2 hard-boiled eggs in strips, also a little ham in strips, and ditto gherkin. Lay the four coloured strips on the cutlets and chop up the rest into the sauce. Rolled Breast of Mutton. Bone a large breast of mutton; make a good veal force-meat, which lay in the middle of the breast of mutton, then some thin slices of bacon on each side of it. Then place a little chopped parsley and shalot, with pepper and salt, between the slices of bacon; roll it up and bind it very tight with tape. Braise it as the loin. Dish it up with every variety of vegetable in season. Mrs. Tunnard.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 55 Roman Pudding’. Well boil some macaroni, then line a well-buttered mould or basin with it. Chop any cold meat very fine and add to it ioz. of grated cheese; season and mix in it a teacupful of thin cream or milk and 2 eggs; pour it into the mould and boil half an hour. If served with brown sauce, glaze it a little, or it may have white sauce. Mus. Tunnard. Stuffed Tomatoes. Tomatoes. 20ZS. Breadcrumbs, ioz. Butter. A little chopped Bacon or Ham. A little chopped Parsley and Shalot. Yolk of i Egg. Pepper and Salt. Flour. Cut a hole out of each tomato at the stem and put in a good lump of the stuffing, raising it well above the tomatoes. Bake in separate small patty pans in the oven, until the tomatoes are conked. Medium sized tomatoes are best. Mrs. Sii.k. Savoury Macaroni. Four ozs. Macaroni well steeped in milk, and a little butter stirred in whilst hot. Let it get cold, then mix with it one egg well beaten, salt, nutmeg, a slice of ham, fowl, veal or any kind of cooked meat, or sausage, chopped very fine. Put into a buttered mould and boil it for one hour. Serve with good gravy. Stuffed Cabbag’e. Soak a cabbage in salt and cold water until quite clean; then cut out the core, and fill with a good mince consisting of veal, chicken and ham choppedIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 56 very fine. Tie the cabbage up securely (with tape is best) and put into a saucepan with a little gravy, and let it stew gently for 2 good hours; slightly thicken the gravy and serve. Gertrude Schofiei.d. Spanish Onions Stuffed. Remove a good piece of the onion, when peeled, in the shape of a cork; make a stuffing of meat minced, finely-chopped parsley, a little mixed herb, and grated breadcrumbs and butter, and a little stock, and fill in the hole in the onions. Ram the corks of onion back as tightly as possible; tie the onions as securely as possible in the corners of a cloth, each separate and tight, and boil for 3 to 3^ hours. Serve with butter. Mrs. Arrot. Stewed Kidneys. Cut the kidneys in half, skin and take out the core, put in the saucepan with ioz. butter and some chopped parsley. Stew 15 minutes and serve on buttered toast. Mrs. Langley, Sheep’s Head Brawn. Clean and put the heads in salt and water over- night. Boil till the meat will come off the bones. Put a little salt in the water. Chop the meat into small pieces, then put back into the saucepan with a small quantity of the liquor. Stir in pepper, mace, or any flavouring preferred, and stir till the liquor is nearly absorbed. Slice two or three hard- boiled eggs, line the mould with them, and fill in with the meat. Serve cold. Mrs. Langley.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 57 Sasaties. Take the thick part of a leg of mutton, cut it into small square pieces, fat and lean; put it into an earthenware bowk Mince a raw onion, and some lemon leaves, i tablespoonful of brown sugar, half a cup of milk; mix together and pour over the meat. Now take 3 or 4 onions, cut small and fry a nice brown. Take ioz. of lemon or vinegar, mix with the onions and let it boil; then add 2 spoonfuls of curry powder and some salt: mix well together and pour over the meat; set aside till next morning. Take the meat and put it on skewers—fat and lean alternately. Then take all the sauce, put t into a saucepan and boil with a little butter. Roast the sasaties (skewered meat) on a gridiron heated on a wood fire, and serve with sauce. Add chutney if liked. Mrs. McD. Troup. To Pot Beef. Put 2lbs. of fresh beef and 3 tablespoonfuls of water in a jar and place in a saucepan of water to cook slowly for 4 hours. Then pass the meat, whilst hot, through the sausage-machine, and then pound it in a mortar with some of the gravy, a little butter and seasoning to taste. Pack into pots and cover with melted butter. F. W. Tomatoes Stuffed. Cut the tops off some medium-sized round tomatoes. Lay them in a buttered tin and bake very lightly, not allowing them to lose their shape. Put a couple of eggs, a lump of butter, a wineglassful of milk, a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan, pepper, salt, and some of the tomato pulp, in a small saucepan, and whisk over the fire till the egg assumes a creamy appearance. Fill the tomatoes with this, and serve very hot, with sprigs of lettuce or watercress between them. Mrs. Beu,.„IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 58 Tomatoes Stuffed with Mushrooms. Remove the centre pulp and seeds from some fairly large, sound tomatoes. Butter a dish, place tomatoes on it, and stuff them with the following- mixture : — Quantity for 6 Tomatoes— 4 large Mushrooms, i small slice of fat Bacon. ioz. Cream. Parsley, Pepper, Salt. Mince the mushrooms, bacon and parsley, add cream, pepper and salt; mix well and fill the tomato cases. Bake in a fairly hot oven for io minutes. Miss F. Lamble. Veal Castle. Take some remains of cold veal, chop it finely, add to it chopped ham, pepper, salt, and lemon peel to taste. Take about half as much crumb of bread as you have meat, soak it in milk and then squeeze it out. Add this to the meat. Melt i oz. of butter in a stewpan, and to it add the meat with 2 well- beaten eggs. Have ready rather high mould, grease it carefully and ornament it with slices of hard-boiled eggs and some strips of beetroot. Press the meat into it, tie it down with buttered paper and bake in the oven for half an hour. Turn out and serve with rich white sauce poured over. Chopped parsley or the yolk of an egg passed through a sieve can be used as a garnish. A. King. Veal Sausages. Take fat bacon and lean veal in equal quantities, with a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper and an anchovy. Let all be chopped and beaten well to- gether, floured, rolled and fried. Miss Baxter.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 59 Walnut Stew. Put on about 2lbs. middle neck mutton, with 2 cut-up onions, pepper and salt, a little water, and about half a small bottle of pickled walnuts, with half the juice of same. Cut the walnuts up in small pieces; Stew gently till done. About half an hour before wanted add the balls, and thicken with a little flour and water. Balls for same.—One pound beef steak, finely minced, a little pepper and salt, mixed herbs, chopped parsley, a pinch of ginger, breadcrumbs and the egg; make into small balls. Mrs. Bernard Myers. Wakefield Steak. 2 tablespoonfuls brown Vinegar, x tablespoonful Worcester Sauce. 1 teaspoonful dry Mustard. 1 teaspoon ful Salt. 1 teaspoonful Sugar. 5 teaspoonful Pepper. Mix all well together and pour over a good steak, which should be stabbed all over with a knife. Let the steak remain in the sauce for 2 or 3 hours. Drain it and broil on gridiron. Put a piece of butter on a very hot dish, add the remainder of the sauce, place the steak on it, and serve. Miss Elderton. Yorkshire Pudding*. 4 Eggs, fpt. Milk, gib. Flour. Break the eggs, separating the yolks from the whites. Put the flour in a basin, put the yolks into the centre of the flour without breaking them; pour a little milk on the yolks and gently draw the flour into this littleIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 60 pond, adding more milk gradually, always keeping it stiff enough to allow the lumps to be rubbed smooth. When half the milk has been used, beat the batter well with a wooden spoon, till it is full of bubbles, then add the rest of the milk, and let it stand for an hour. At the last stir in lightly the very stiffly- whipped whites of the 4 eggs. Pour the mixture to the depth of J of an inch into a tin, which has been previously brushed over with clarified dripping and well heated. Bake in a quick oven under the meat. Mr. Elin. Note on Yorkshire Pudding.—In making batter pudding to eat with meat, water can be substituted for milk, or half water and half milk. Mrs. Rhys Powell. Beef op Tongue Pickle. 8 to lolbs. brisket of Beef. 4 handfuls of Salt. £lb. coarse brown Sugar for pickling, ioz. Saltpetre. soz. Sal Prunella, or Bay Salt. Mix together and rub the beef all over; turn and rub every day for a fortnight. Boil six or eight hours, or until the bones will come out. Press under heavy weights until morning, then glaze over the top. Miss C. Clements. Boeuf de Chasse or Irish Red Round. Take a large round of beef, 20 or 30 lbs. Take out the marrow-bone and fill the hole with the fat from the lap. Pound together Jib. saltpetre, Jib. allspice, 2ozs. black pepper, Joz. ground ginger; mix with ilb. of salt and Jib. of brown sugar. Keep the beef in a crock, and" rub it well with this mixture, and turnKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. it every day for io or 12 days. Sew a tight bandage of linen round the beef to keep it in shape, and put it into a large pot or pan, having first covered the bottom of the pan with a good layer of chopped suet, say, ilb. Pour in a quart of water, and put a large spoonful of chopped suet on the top of the beef Cover the pot with a griddle, and put a slow fire under and over it. It should bake for 10 or 12 hours, and be quite soft when done. Skim the gravy and pour it over the beef. An old-fashioned Dutch oven cooks this beef well. Miss Tonn. Empress of Russia’s Brine. Boil together over a slow fire 6 lbs. of salt, 2 lbs. loaf sugar, 3 ozs. saltpetre in three gallons of water; skim when boiling five minutes. When cold add your meat. Miss Emma Durham. Liverpool Beef. Take a piece of round of beef, rub it well with salt and 2ozs. of saltpetre, and let it stand 3 days, then boil the following pickle and put to it: — i gallon of Water. 3lbs. of Salt. 20ZS. Bay Salt. 20ZS. Sal Prunella. 20ZS. brown Sugar. In 3 days take it out and wash it, roll it in a cloth, tie it tight and simmer it for 6 hours with a large handful of thyme and parsley, 6 onions, 2ozs. juniper berries, and a handful of cloves, mace and allspice. When cold, roll it as tight as possible and put a weight upon it. Mrs. Douglas Smith. 6ttN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 62 Pickle for Beef op Tongues. 2 gallons Water. 2lbs. Bay Salt (or 5lbs. common Salt, but beef not so fine in flavour). 2lbs. coarse Sugar. 20zs. Saltpetre. 20zs. black Pepper (bruised or tied in muslin). Boil all together for 20 minutes; clear off the scum thoroughly as it rises. Pour the pickle into a deep earthen pan, and when it is quite cold lay in the meat, and take care that every part of it is per- fectly covered with the pickle. A moderate-sized round of beef will be fit for use in a fortnight. It should be turned occasionally in the pickle. The pickle will keep a long time if it is boiled up occa- sionally, and a little more salt added to it. Miss V. Merriman. Spiced Beef. ifb. Salt. 5OZ. Saltpetre. ^oz. Allspice, soz. black Pepper, gib. brown Sugar. Thoroughly mix and boil these ingredients in 2qts. of water and pour hot upon a piece of beef in a glazed jar: let it remain for a fortnight. It must be kept under the pickle with a weight. N.B.—The flank cut from the end of the sirloin is very suitable. After being boiled it should be pressed flat and glazed when cold. The pickle may be boiled up and used again. F. Austin. To Cure Hams (1). ilb. coarse Sugar, ilb. Salt, ioz. Bay Salt, ioz. black Pepper, ioz. Saltpetre. ioz. Juniper Berries (well bruised).KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 63 Mix all together and lay on the hams. When it dissolves baste daily for a month. Mrs. John Savage. To Cure Hams (2). 2 Hams (2olbs. each) and 2 Shoulders. Rub in salt and pepper for 3 days; then put in pickle. If very cold weather, hang 3 days before salting. For the Piekle. 4lbs. brown Sugar. 2ozs. Sal Prunella. 4lbs. Treacle. 20zs. Bay Salt. 4lbs. common Salt. 1 cup of Vinegar. Let them lie 1 month, during which the pickle must be thrown over them with a spoon once a day. After the end of the month take them out of the pickle and put into cold water for 24 hours, then hang up to dry. Mrs. Douglas Smith. To Cure Hams (3). 1 lb. Bay Salt. .}lb. common Salt. 20ZS. Saltpetre. joz. black Pepper (powdered). Beat all these very fine, then rub the ham (about 2olbs.) very well and let it lie 4 days, turning it every day, then pour upon it ilb. of treacle. Wash it every day with the liquor, and let it stand a month; then steep it in cold water 24 hours, and hang up to dry. N.B.—This pickle will afterwards cure tongues for drying or immediate use. Mrs. Playfair,IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 64 To Cure Tongues. ioz. Saltpetre. |oz. black Pepper. 30ZS. coarse Sugar. 2ozs. Juniper Berries. 6ozs. Salt. Rub the above ingredients well into the tongue (about 7lbs.) and let it remain in the pickle for a fortnight. Then drain it, tie it up in brown paper, and have it smoked for about 20 days over a wood fire—or it may be boiled out of the pickle. Mrs. Vachell.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Additional Recipes.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF — Additional Recipes f><KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 67 CURRIES Bobotee. 2lbs. Meat. 2 Onions. x large slice of white Bread. 1 teacupful of Milk. 2 Eggs. 2 tablespoon fuls of Curry Powder, x dessert-spoonful Sugar. Juice of i Lemon, or 2 tablespoon fuls of Vinegar. 6 or 8 Almonds. A lump of Butter. Mince the meat, soak the bread in milk, and squeeze dry. Fry the onions in butter. Mix all the ingre- dients together (curry, sugar, salt, etc.) with the fried onion. Now mix all with the meat. Mix 1 egg with the mixture; whisk the other with some milk, and pour over the whole, after being put into a buttered pie-dish, with lemon on top. Bake. Serve with rice. Mrs. McD. Troup. Cuppy (1). ilb. Beef or Mutton. 1 tablespoonful Curry Powder. 1 teaspoonful Curry Paste. 1 teaspoonful desiccated Cocoanut. 1 dessert-spoonful Watkin’s Relish. 1 dessert-spoonful Chutney. 1 lump of Sugar. 1 breakfastcupful of Stock. 4 Onions (small). Butter. Salt. All fat must be removed from the meat, which must be cut into dice. Chop the onions into small piecesIN AID OP THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 68 and fry dark golden brown in just enough butter to cook them. Mix in a basin the curry powder, paste, cocoanut, relish, chutney, sugar, salt, ioz. butter and the stock. Put the meat on the top of the onions and pour the mixture over it; let it all stew gently for 3 or 4 hours. An acid apple is an improvement, and a little thick cream added at the last. Mrs. Shepherd. Curry (2). Melt 2ozs. butter in a frying pan over a clear fire and shred a large tablespoonful of onions into it. Fry brown, and take out the onion. Bruise 2 table- spoonfuls of onions with a little water in a mortar to a pulp and stir with a dessert-spoonful of curry into the butter. Fry all together, then put in the meat, shred small enough to be eaten with a spoon, stir well and fry till a good dark colour. As it dries put in gradually f of a teacupful of good gravy. Let the curry simmer gently about \ an hour, squeeze in it a little lemon juice, and serve. Miss H. Clements. Curry (3). Two and a-half pounds of meat. Take 3 onions and five cloves of garlic, pound them to a mash in a marble mortar. Take 30ZS. of butter, put it in a saucepan with an onion sliced longways, brown it, take out the sliced onion and put in the mashed onion and garlic with 2ozs. of cream or milk. Let it boil, shaking it occasionally, till it is a light brown, then put in the meat, a little salt and a pinch of ginger; let all fry a little, adding a spoonful of water to prevent it burning. Then add a tablespoonful of curry powder. Let all simmer awhile, then add a breakfastcupful of water. Allow it to stew till theKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 69 meat is very tender and the water nearly evaporated. Add the sliced onion when the water is put in. If acid is liked, to be put in when nearly ready. Recipe by a Hindoo Cook of Dr. Playfair's Mother's. Dahl. Half-pint of lentils and 2 onions cut up fine, to boil together in iqt. of water for £ of an hour. Before serving add a teaspoonful of curry powder, 2 ozs. of butter, a little salt. Then dish with a border of rice. Mrs. Beale. Kidneys with Curry Sauce. Put a small pat of butter in a stewpan, a tablespoon- ful of curry powder, 2 teaspoonfuls of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a little chopped onion; fry them together and moisten with a gill of broth, until forming a smooth, thick sauce. Cut three kidneys, by making an incision in the fleshy paid, so as to be able to remove the outer skin; cut each in five pieces crosswise; fry them in a little butter with salt and pepper, stirring them till set. Pour 4 or 5 spoonfuls of the curry sauce over them and serve. Miss Baxter. Toast Curry. 20zs. Cocoanut. ij tablespoonfuls of Curry Powder. A little Water. Pound the cocoanut, moistening it with water. Add the curry powder gradually, and continue pounding until it is a paste. Slice a large onion. Put it in a pot over the fire with 30ZS. of butter. Stir till brown, about five minutes. Stir in the lump of paste previously prepared. Put in a breakfastcupful of stock, and a teaspoonful of salt. Leave it to simmer for half-an-hour, stirring occasionally. Cut some small cubes of bread, fry them in fat till crisp andIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 70 brown, and then drain off the fat from them, and put them in a dish. Prepare a small cup of cocoa, with milk. If there is not any in the nut, make it by pounding some cocoanut into the water, and then straining it. As soon as the curry in the pot begins to get thick with boiling, put half of this in. Add the other half three minutes before taking the pot off the fire, and also the juice of half a lemon. Pour the mixture on to the toast. Lady Ollivant. Vegetable Curry. Chop up ilb. of vegetables—potato, carrot, French beans, peas, cabbage, turnip. Heat ioz. of fat in a frying pan; add the vegetables, and fry them lightly, turning them at intervals. Prepare the curry mix- ture as before, but add to it four small pieces of garlic, a dozen raisins, and four almonds. • Pour it over the vegetables. Serve both dishes with boiled rice and fresh chutney. Lady Ollivant. Vegetable Curry. Cut some onions in thin slices and fry them a good brown in butter; add a breakfastcupful of milk in which a tablespoonful of curry powder has been mixed; let all boil together for twenty minutes, stirring the whole time, then add the vegetables, previously par-boiled, and let the whole simmer by the side of the fire for about an hour. Potatoes, peas, beans, carrots and turnips can be used, but broad beans alone make a delicious curry. Miss Baxter.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. VEGETABLES c9 SALADS Adelaide Potatoes. Cut a circle in 8 or io potatoes, bake them. When done take out the insides. Mash them with Jib. of butter, a little cream, salt and pepper, a little sugar and the whites of 2 eggs. Put the mixture back into the skins again, and bake them 20 minutes. Mrs. Tunnard. Boiled Rice. Wash £lb. rice in cold water three times. Boil some water. Put in the washed rice, a table- spoonful of salt and the juice of half a lemon. Boil for about half an hour, till quite soft. Add a cupful of cold water just before taking it off tbe fire. Wring it out in a cloth. Put it on a sieve to dry by the fire, and when dry keep it warm until it is served. Lady Ollivant. Cauliflower Salad. Boil a cauliflower in salted water till tender, but not overdone; when cold cut it up neatly in small sprigs. Beat up together 3 tablespoonfuls of oil and 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, with pepper and salt to taste; rub the dish slightly with garlic, arrange the pieces of cauliflower on it, strew over them some capers, a little tarragon, chervil and parsley, all finely minced, and the least bit of dried thyme and marjoram powdered. Pour the oil and vinegar over and serve. Miss Baxter. 7iIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 72 Compote of Vegetables. Carrots. Turnips. Tomatoes. Cucumber. i Spanish Onion. Vegetable Marrow. Beetroot. ipt. Stock. A little Isinglass. All vegetables to be cooked till tender. Line a mould with layers of vegetables alternately until filled (onion to be cut in thin rings). Boil down a pint of good stock in which you have dissolved a little isinglass; pour this over the vegetables; put it aside till set, when cold turn out on a flat dish, garnish with slices of cold ham and chicken, and pour over a good mayonnaise sauce. Mrs. MacAllister per Miss Monk. Date Salad. 2 Lettuces, i piece Endive. 20zs. Sweet Almonds Mb. Dates. 20ZS. Parmesan Cheese, ioz. Cream. Grate the cheese and mix to a paste with the cream. Stone the dates and fill with the mixture. Separate the lettuce leaves, place the stuffed dates on them, and sprinkle the whole with the chopped endive and almonds. Miss F. Lamble. Green Peas. Shell your peas and put them in a stone jar with a cover, add salt, pepper, and a little sugar. Cover the jar with its lid, which must fit well, and put this into a saucepan which comes upKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 73 nearly to the top of the jar. Keep the water boiling till the peas are cooked. When ready, take lid off jar and add a piece of butter size of a nut or larger, according to quantity of peas. Put on lid again and serve peas in the jar with a napkin folded round. Quite young peas will take 20 to 30 minutes to cook. Old peas one to two hours. Cooks object often, as peas lose their bright green colour cooked like this, and the length of time they take. On no account put soda in. A salt jar is a very good thing to cook them in. Miss Macpheuson. Italian Salad. Rub a shallow dish or bowl with a split clove of garlic, then slice a beetroot very thin; dust with pepper; pour over it a gill of sweet mint sauce. Garnish with rings of hard-boiled egg; grate some yolk lightly over. Me. Elin. Kitehree. Steep |lb. of dole or split peas some hours. Take them, with |lb. of rice, and put them into 3 pints of boiling water; boil it till quite soft. Take |lb. of butter, slice two or three onions, brown them in the butter, take them out, mix the butter with the dole and rice, heat it, and when served thin the onions over it. Recipe by a Hindoo Cook of Dr. Playfair's Mother's. Mashed Turnips. Take any quantity of turnips required, cut them in slices and boil them until tender, press all the wet from them in a cloth, pass them through a wire sieve, put a small piece of butter into a stewpanIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 74 with a little flour, and when melted put in the turnips. Add a little cream, and if too thick a little milk. Make them quite hot. Mrs. Tunnard. Pommes de terre a la Maitre d’Hotel. Melt a slice of butter in a saucepan, stir in a table- spoonful of flour, then gradually mix in about 3 tablespoonfuls of boiling water, and as much cream as will bring it to the thickness of good melted butter. Add a little salt and about a teaspoonful of chopped boiled parsley. Be careful to stir all the time it thickens. Put in cold boiled potatoes sliced about Jin. thick. When quite hot add a teaspoonful of lemon juice or vinegar. Mrs. Tunnard. Peas a la Fran9aise. Put a quart of fine green peas with a piece of butter the size of a walnut into as much warm water as will cover them and allow to stand for 10 minutes. Strain off the water, put them into a saucepan and cover it, but stir frequently. When a little tender add a bunch of parsley and a young onion, a dessert- spoonful of white sugar and ioz. of butter mixed with a teaspoonful of flour. Keep stirring occa- sionally until the peas are tender, and add, if they become too thick, a tablespoonful of hot water Before serving take out the onion and bunch of parsley. Mrs. Macnamara. Red Cabbage. Cut off all the outer leaves of a good, hard red cab- bage, and cut out the stalk. Chop the rest fine, and put in a saucepan with some suet and a very little water, and let it cook until tender. Water must beKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 75 added occasionally. When cooked, stir in some flour, salt, pepper, and a little vinegar, a sprinkling of white sugar, and a spoonful or two of stock, and serve. Gertrude Schofield. Savoury Potatoes. Bake three or four large potatoes in their skins; when soft, cut in halves and take out the inside care- fully. Chop up a little onion, parsley, fine herbs, and mix with the potato, adding butter, and pepper and salt to taste. Stuff this mixture into the skins again, smoothly feather over with white of egg, and replace in the oven for about ten minutes till the white is glazed. Mrs. Abbot. Stewed Potatoes. Put into a frying pan a small piece of butter, a little chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and a gill of milk, thickened with flour. Let this come to a boil, add cold boiled potatoes, cut in slices, and let all cook gently for ten minutes. Add a little bit more butter, and serve. Miss Bailey. Tomato and Banana Salad. 3 Bananas, ilb. Tomatoes. Skin the tomatoes by plunging them in boiling water; slice them. Skin and scrape the bananas slightly and cut them in slices. Arrange them in a glass dish alternately with the tomatoes. Sprinkle pepper and salt over them. For the dressing: — The yolk of a hard-boiled egg and about 3 penny- worth of cream (about a gill). Beat the cream, well season with pepper and salt and a little celery salt. Rub the egg down smoothly with a little of theIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 76 cream, and then add gradually the remainder and a few drops of tarragon and house vinegar. Pour over the fruits. H. C. To Boil Potatoes. Having peeled the potatoes, place then in a pot of cold water, to which salt has been added in the pro- portion of a teaspoonful to a pint (normal saline solu- tion). Throw in some leaves of mint. Bring the water to the boil, and let it boil steadily for exactly io minutes. Then pour off the water; remove the lid of the pot, and cover it instead with a piece of muslin. Place it at one side of the range to steam slowly until served. Sr. Clair Thomson. To Boil Rice. Put the rice into boiling water, boil it about io minutes. Pour off the greater part of the water, then put in a pint of cold water, then pour it off immediately very dry. Set the pan by the fire till required for use, in a short time it will be quite dry. Recipe by a Hindoo Cook of Dr. Playfair’s Mother’s. To cook French Beans, preserving1 their juice. Head, tail, and string fresh beans (French), but otherwise keep them whole. Boil them until they are tender. Then throw them into a sieve and press them well so as to remove all water possible. Never mind their getting cool in the process. Turn them out upon a chopping-board, and chop them into pieces about half the size of a bean. Melt some butter in a shallow pan, and when it is quite hot throw in the beans and stir them about so that they get well heated whilst absorbing the butter. A little pepper and salt. Serve quickly. Miss Buzzard.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 77 To Stew Peas. To a quart of peas cut 2 cabbage lettuces, 2ozs. butter, mix in the peas and lettuces. Wash your peas and lettuces; put them on the fire to stew gently, then add a little boiling water, and a little fine salt and pepper and sugar. They will take an hour stewing. Mrs. Tunnard.KING’S COLLEGE HOS LONDON Additional Recipes.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF POULTRY AND GAME A Coormah. The same as a curry, but without curry powder; generally made of chicken. Recipe by a Hindoo Cook of Dr. Playfair's Mother's. A Lunch Mould. Soak the crumbs of two rolls or any white bread in milk or soup; mince Jib. ham, Jib. veal or chicken; season with pepper and salt, a little nutmeg. Mix all well together. Put in a buttered mould and bake it for three-quarters of an hour. This dish can be made with the remains of any cold meat. Miss M. Kemlysidf.. A Pillan. About 3lbs. of lamb or a fowl dressed as a coor- mah, a pound of rice boiled in beef gravy. Throw off the gravy, put half the rice into a deep sauce- pan, then the meat; cover it with the rest of the rice. Put it on the fire and cover the lid of the pan with fire too. When thoroughly done dish it with fried onions over it, and two or three hard-boiled eggs sliced. Recipe by a Hindoo Cook of Dr. Playfair's Mother's. SoKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOOTH LONDON. Chicken Brawn. Boil a fowl until tender; skin it, remove the bones, and cut the meat into small pieces (boil the bones and skin, and add a little veal to the stock the fowl has been boiled in to make a jelly). Add a small onion, mace, clove and peppercorns to flavour. Dis- solve some sheet gelatine, and clear with white of egg. Then arrange slices of hard-boiled eggs in a pattern at the bottom of the mould, and fill up with the meat and slices of ham or tongue. Then pour in the jelly as full as you can. A little beet or carrot could also be put in, if liked. Mrs. Smart. Chicken Cream for Invalids. Soak half a slice of bread in milk, then squeeze it dry; pound it in a mortar along with the breast of a raw chicken; pass it through a wire sieve; stir it in a bowl with a wooden spoon, add half a pint of cream, pepper and salt. When all is well mixed together, add in the white of one small egg, having previously switched it to a froth, put it into a small mould and steam it half an hour. Do not let it boil, but it must be in a constant heat on the point of boiling. Serve with white sauce, mushrooms, or spinach. The white meat of a cooked chicken may be thus used— a boiled one is best-—when not wanted specially delicate. Mrs. Rooke. Cigarettes a la Reine. Mince finely the meat of a cold chicken, mix with it a little chopped truffles, white sauce, pepper and salt. This forcemeat must be solid enough to roll like a paste. Shape like a cigarette, fry in egg and bread- crumb, very crisp, and serve with cress or parsley. Mrs. Crace. 8iIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 82 Chicken Pie. Simmer a fine fowl for f hour, keeping it closely covered in saucepan, so that no goodness may escape; take it out and cut up into 8 or io pieces, and quickly separate as much bone as possible, re- turning it (the bone parts) to the liquor in which fowl has been boiled, adding onion and any vegetable you like; boil till reduced to ipt. Lay the pieces of fowl into a pie-dish, loosely packed, sprink- ling each piece with pepper, salt, and a little pow- dered mace; also peel of % a lemon, very finely peeled and very finely chopped. Add morsels of fat bacon or ham and hard-boiled eggs. By putting fowl into dish carelessly, there is more room for the gravy, which adds so much to the pie, and if it is to be eaten cold, better add Joz. gelatine dissolved in some of the chicken liquor. Fine puff pastry. Bake pie about i hour. Miss Perkin. Chicken Pudding’. Mb. Butter. 3 Eggs. Mb. Sugar. 50ZS. Flour. |pt. Milk. Little Nutmeg. Sugar and butter to be mixed together, the rest of ingredients added alternately, putting in the eggs last, after beating very lightly. Young and tender chickens to be cut up and well seasoned, with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and small bits of butter. Pour in a little of the batter first, then fill up the dish with chicken, the rest of the batter on the top. Bake till done; try by sticking in a knife to see if done. Cook slowly.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 83 Cotelettes de Volaille a la Grafton. Prepare and cook as many fillets as possible from the breast of a nice poularde, and put them to press. When cold, cut out with a cutlet shaped cutter, and mask all over the top with a mixture of foie gros to about l of an inch, shaping them as neatly as possi- ble with a wet knife; then mask with white chaud- froid and aspic and truffle to garnish the top. Dish on a cold border of cream of chicken made from the legs and masked with white chaudfroid, filling the centre with very small quenelles of chicken masked with pink sauce and a little mustard and cress, or any other green salad. Lady Playfair. Country Captain. Cut up into joints an ordinary-sized chicken, already lightly cooked (preferably boiled), or some veal, kid, turkey, duck, or goose joints. Warm your dripping and fry the sliced onions, and when browned set them aside to dry, and keep hot. Then fry in 40ZS. of dripping, half a teaspoonful of ground chillies, one teaspoonful of salt, a quarter of a teaspoonful of ground turmeric, with 20 small onions cut up lengthways into fine slices; then throw in the chicken or other meat, and salt, and continue to fry until the meat is quite tender. Place on a hot dish; pile up the meat in the centre, sprinkling the hot dry onions over the top. Mrs. Macnamara. Dumpode Duek (Eastern Way). Take a good fat duck, pour into it a mixture made of 1 teaspoonful each, of mustard, sweet oil and mixed sauce. Make a gravy of the bones and giblet, seasoned with pepper, salt, soup herbs, andIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 84 a few bay leaves. Mince together with the liver of the duck 2^1bs. of good beef, £lb. of beef suet, a dessert-spoonful of chopped herbs, a tablespoonful of grated breadcrumbs, \ teaspoonful of ground mixed spice, i teaspoonful each of pepper and salt, and if liked, i teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Mix these well together and stuff the duck. Melt 3 ozs. of dripping in the pan, put in the duck, pour over it the giblet gravy, and allow it to cook till tender. Then glaze the duck and serve. Mrs. Macnamara. Entree of Cold Chicken. Have ready six or more patty cases of puff pastry. Put |pt. of white sauce in a saucepan, add to it 6ozs. of chopped chicken, 2ozs. of chopped ham, 3 or 4 chopped, mushrooms; stir these over the fire until hot through; well beat the yolks of 3 eggs, add to them 2 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, then add these to the mixture, and stir it over the fire for a minute or two to cook the egg, but on no account let it boil, or the egg will curdle; season the mix- ture nicely, fill in the cases carefully (they should first be heated through in the oven), put on the little tops, arrange the patties and garnish with watercress. A. King. Giblet Stew. Wash two sets of giblets well. Put them on in cold water or stock; simmer them for 4 hours till tender; season to taste. Thicken the gravy with a little arrowroot, colour it with a little browning, flavour it with lemon juice or mushrooms and onion. Mrs. Bernard Myers.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 85 Galantine of Fowl. 1 Fowl. |lb. Bacon. 2 Truffles. ilb. Sausage Meat. Yolks of 2 or 3 hard-boiled Eggs. Pepper and Salt. Bone the fowl and put in the above mixture; wrap it in a cloth and tie or pin it, not too tightly, and boil. When boiled, unfasten the cloth and tie up again, and place it between 2 dishes well weighted and leave for a time; then take off the cloth and brush over with glaze; let it stand, and repeat the glazing three or four times. Should this dish be eaten hot the following sauce should be used : — ioz. of Flour. ^pt. of Milk, ioz. of Butter. A little Cream. A little Lemon Juice, with i or 2 hard-boiled Eggs chopped and put into it. Mrs. Crack. Harried Rabbit. Skin a rabbit and wash well in cold salt and water. Cut it up in joints. Put in a deep basin, cover well with boiling water, and stir round two or three times. Drain and lay in a baking tin. Chop the liver, kidneys, and heart and some parsley and onion, and sprinkle over the rabbit. Put a piece (iilbs.) of pickled pork (streaky) in the middle of the tin so that the pieces of rabbit are arranged all round it. Warm a breakfastcupful of milk with sufficient boiling* water to cover the rabbit; dredge with flour, put in a few pieces of butter or dripping, and bake in a good oven for 2 hours. Mrs. Langley.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 86 Indian Spotcljcock. Split and boil lightly a small spring chicken (or the remains of a cold boiled fowl may be used). Place the chicken, when cold, flat open in a fireproof pan or dish, pour the following sauce over, put it in the oven and baste well with the sauce till the chicken is thoroughly heated through; the sauce should be just sufficient to cover the chicken. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked. Sauce. i teaspoonful of made Mustard, i teaspoonful of Worcester Sauce, i teaspoon ful of Anchovy Essence, i dessert-spoonful of brown Sugar. 1 tablespoonful of Ketchup. 2 tablespoonfuls of good clear Stock. 3 tablespoonfuls of Milk or Cream. A dust of Cayenne Pepper. Mix well together, heat and pour over the chicken. Mrs. Macnamara. Jug’g’ed Hare. Skin and paunch the hare; cut it into joints, and put in a stewpan or jar; cover it with water. Add i good sized onion, stuck with cloves (about 8), a little parsley and thyme (all tied in a piece of muslin with the liver). Stew them for 2\ hours (if an old hare, longer). Half an hour before serving, mix suffi- cient flour in butter, melted, to thicken. When done add Jpt. of port wine, and garnish with forcemeat balls; pepper and salt to taste. Lucy Blackland.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 87 Potted Birds. Remove all skin from the birds after being dressed, cut them up into neat joints, put into a small stew- pot with a little good veal stock, and a little butter on each joint; season with pepper and salt, and stew until tender. The stewpot should be covered. Stew about 2 hours. Mas. Shepherd. Stuffing1 for Hare. Breadcrumbs. Lemon Thyme. Parsley. A little Suet. Pepper and Salt. Liver of Hare, boiled and chopped up all together. Miss II. Clements. Simmered Spiced Chicken. Treat the bird as for roasting or boiling, and fill with the usual forcemeat. Put it into a saucepan with half a pint of water, and season with salt, plenty of pepper, cayenne, and any other spice liked; it should be very “hot.” Cut into pieces about lib. mush- rooms, a red capsicum, and fully ilb. tomatoes. About a wineglassful of tarragon vinegar is a great improvement, and a few forcemeat balls make it “ grand.” Cover closely, and with gentle simmer- ing it takes about an hour, or a little longer, to cook. Miss Baxter. Truffle Pudding. V Butter a small pudding basin, line it with suet paste, and then with an inner lining of quenelle mixture,IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 88 or with chicken and ham, or with veal and ham, minced and pounded in a mortar, highly flavoured and mixed with one or two eggs according to quantity. Fill up the centre of the pudding with truffles, which have been previously brushed, peeled, sliced, and well seasoned with salt and pepper. Have ready some sauce made with the trimmings of the truffles, and a small quantity of well-flavoured good stock; reduce it well, and thicken it with a little butter and flour. Pour a little of this sauce over the truffles, add a squeeze of lemon juice, cover them over, first, with a layer of the pounded meat, and then with a paste cover; secure the edges well, tie a floured cloth over, and put the basin into a Saucepan full of boiling water. Boil about one hour and a half, turn out the pudding and glaze it, and serve with a rich brown sauce. Miss Baxter. To Dress an Old Hen. When the fowl is plucked and drawn, joint it as for a pie. Do not skin it. Stew it 5 hours in a closed saucepan with salt, mace, onion or any other flavouring ingredient that may be approved. When tender turn it out into a deep dish, so that the meat may be entirely covered with the liquor. Let it stand thus in its own jelly for a day or two—this is the grand secret. It may then be served in the shape of a curry, a hash, or a pie. Mrs. Tunnard. To Cook Small Game. For 6 birds use from J to Jib. of butter and iqt. of milk. Bring the butter to boiling point over a brisk fire, put the birds and brown them well all over; add to the butter some boiling milk in smallKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Mrs. Shepherd. quantities, putting more in when required. Let it boil up, put the lid on and let them simmer accord- ing to age (§ to i hour if young, 3 hours if old). When done, take them out of the pan, add a little flour mixed with butter to what remains in the pan, then add a teacupful of cream. Then serve hot. Tie the birds round with tape to keep the shape.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Additional Recipes.IN AID OF THF FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 92 SAVOURIES AND BREAKFAST DISHES. A Breakfast Dish. 5pt. Shrimps, ipt. Milk. Pick the shrimps, put into a saucepan with the milk, pepper, salt, and sufficient anchovy sauce to make it a deep pink colour; bring- it to the boil, and thicken with flour. Plave ready some rice well-boiled, make a wall of it in a dish, pour the shrimp mixture into the middle, grate over it some brown crusts, and serve very hot. Anehovy Straws. 2czs. Flour. i^ozs. Butter. 5 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Carmine to colour. Rub all together till like breadcrumbs. Press with a knife and knead. Roll out and cut into fingers one inch by two. Prick and bake in a moderate oven for io minutes. Put this mixture between two:—ioz. butter, i teaspoonful of anchovy essence, lemon juice, pepper and carmine; work all together. Miss V. Merriman. Anehovy Toast. Mix well i teaspoonful of anchovy sauce with a piece of good butter the size of a walnut, a little red pepper and a raw egg, on a very hot plate (a hot water one is best) before the fire, till all signs of theKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 93 raw egg disappear. Have ready some very crisp, hot pieces of freshly made toast. Take these and turn them in the mixture well, and serve at once on a very hot plate or dish. A poached egg served on each piece is liked by some. Miss Macpherson. Aspic Jelly. ipt. (jelly) Stock. £pt. Water, inozs. Gelatine. ^pt. tarragon Vinegar, ipt. Sherry. i tablespoonful of Salt. 12 Peppercorns, i blade of Mace. A few Cloves. i clove of Garlic. i Schalot (used with the skin). A bunch of herbs—Thyme, Marjoram. 3 Bay leaves. A sprig of Parsley, i or 2 sticks of Celery, cut up. A little Turnip, Carrot, and Onion. The whites and shells of 2 Eggs. Peel of i Lemon and juice of 2. Put all the ingredients into a lined pan, whisk well, until nearly on the boil, and then draw to the side of the fire and partly cover and allow to settle while you prepare the strainer; then strain and allow to get cool and use as required. Mrs. Crack. Boiled Cheese. Put a small piece of butter, about the size of a marble, into a saucepan, and add together 2 table- spoonfuls of milk, i tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, £lb. of cheese, cut up into slices, a little pepper and salt, and boil all together for io or 15 minutes, stir- ring constantly. Pour it over hot buttered toast and serve very hot. Mrs. Beale.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 94 Breakfast Dish. Boil 2 egg's 12 minutes and put into cold water. When cool remove the shells, dry with flour, cover each with sausage meat, egg and breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling fat till brown. Cut in halves and serve. Miss Macpherson. Cheese Aigrettes. < 30ZS. fine Flour. ioz. Butter. 2 Eggs and 1 yolk. 2ozs. Parmesan Cheese. - 3pt. Water. Cayenne and Salt. Put the water and butter into a pan and let it boil; then shake in the flour and beat well; then drop in the eggs one by one without beating them first, and beat each well into the mixture, and then add the grated cheese. Drop rough little bits into boiling fat and serve them heaped on a dish sprinkled with a little fresh grated cheese. Mrs. Crack. Cheese Balls. 2ozs. Parmesan Cheese, grated. 2 whites of Eggs. Pepper, Salt, and Cayenne to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs into a very stiff froth; mix the cheese, pepper and salt, gently stir in the whites of eggs. Form into halls in the hand; with a fork drop them into boiling fat, and serve with grated cheese sprinkled over. Mrs. Abbot. Cheese Fritters. Beat the whites of 2 eggs to quite a stiff froth, add 2ozs. of grated cheese, and a little pepper and salt; beat this quickly till the egg foams; have ready someKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 95 fat boiling, drop pieces of the mixture in, and one minute will suffice for cooking. Pile on a hot dish and serve. Mrs. Crack. Cheese Patties. Line some patty-pans with thin puff paste; beat the yolk of an egg with loz. of grated cheese; add a dessert-spoonful of cream, and cayenne pepper and salt to taste and the well-whisked white of an egg. Fill the cases three parts with the mixture, and bake in a quick oven. Miss Bailey. Cheese Pudding’. i teacup ful Breadcrumbs, ioz. grated Cheese, i Egg. Pepper and Salt. About a pint of Milk. Bake in a quick oven for £ hour or 20 minutes. Mr. Napper. Cheese Shortcake. Jib. of Flour. lib. of Parmesan Cheese. 11b. of Butter. A little Cayenne. Mix and roll out thin and cut into shapes and bake in an oven not too hot. 7 Mrs. Crack. Cheese Souffle. 20zs. Flour. 20zs. Butter. 20zs. Cheese (grated). 1 Egg. Jpt. of Milk. Pinch of Salt. Mix the flour, butter, cheese, and milk in a saucepan over the fire till they beg'in to thicken, after being melted. _ Remove the saucepan from the fire, and when quite cool whisk in the yolk of egg, and thenIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 96 the white, separately. Have a pie-dish ready, well buttered; put in the mixture, and bake in a brisk oven half an hour. Mrs. Abbot. Cheese Straws (1). Mix 2ozs. of flour with same weight of grated cheese and breadcrumbs together, with 2ozs. of dis- solved butter, a little salt and cayenne pepper; roll out quite thin and cut into long straws and bake in a flat floured tin for io minutes in a quick oven. Miss Birch. Cheese Straws (2). Make a paste with 6 ozs. of flour, 4ozs. of butter, 30ZS. grated Parmesan cheese, and as little water as possible; season it with salt, pepper and cayenne to taste; roll it out thin, cut it into narrow strips, brush them over with a little yolk of egg diluted with water; bake in a moderate oven and serve hot. Miss Baxter. Dish of Eggs. Break some eggs in a dish, being careful not to lay one yolk over another; drop over them some warm butter and breadcrumbs lightly, put in the oven until the whites are set and serve with parsley, garnishing the edges. Miss M. S. Owen. “ Dublin Lawyer ” (An Irish Savoury.) The flesh of a medium-sized Lobster. 20ZS. Butter. 1 wineglass of Sherry. Red Pepper and Salt to taste. A squeeze of Lemon. Heat all together in a silver dish over a spirit lamp, and serve with it crisp fingers of toast. Mrs. Macnamara.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 97 E Egg* Balls. Boil four or five eggs quite hard, take out the yolks, and beat in a mortar with salt and cayenne pepper. Make into a paste with the white of one or two eggs. Make into balls the size of marbles, roll in flour, and fry or brown before the fire. Mrs. Barnard. Egg Fondue. Make this by putting 6 eggs into a bowl and beat- ing them lightly; add 4 tablespoonfuls of finely chopped or grated cheese, a good pincn of salt, and a dash of cayenne pepper. Put a tablespoonful of butter into a saucepan, turn in the mixture and stir constantly until the eggs are smooth. Serve at once on squares of buttered toast, on a hot dish gar- nished with parsley. This makes a good luncheon dish or a good savoury for dinner. Eggs a la Nevern. 4 Eggs. 20zs. cooked Ham. 4 rounds of Toast. 1 teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. A little Butter. Cut the ham very fine, and melt the butter in a pan, and make the ham hot in it. Poach the eggs, put them on the toast, arranging the ham round the border. Sprinkle each egg with the parsley, and serve very hot. Eggs a la Regence. Half a tomato (large onej to each person, and also a small round of hot buttered toast. For four persons 2 eggs, 1 tablespoonful of cream or milk, 1 tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Beat up the eggs, mix the parsley, milk, salt, and pepper. Melt a little butter in a stewpan, and when melted pour in the mixture, set over a slow fire till it is creamy and set (like buttered eggs), then have ready theIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 98 tomatoes (baked tender), put them on the rounds of toast and heap some of the mixture on each. Serve hot. Mrs. Abbot. Eggs a la Tripe. Slice up three large onions, parboil and drain them; then finish cooking them in milk, very slightly salted. When done, drain them on a sieve, and make a thick Bechamel sauce with the milk in which the onions have been boiled, and add i gill of thick cream. Season with salt, cayenne pepper, and grated nutmeg. Slice six hard-boiled eggs and mix with the onions in the sauce, lightly stirring the whole on the fire with a wooden spoon. Place the eggs and onions on a dish surrounded by a border of sippets of toast and decorate with a layer of chopped' parsley over the top and a few spots of anchovy essence and serve very hot. Mrs. Morison. Foaming* Eggs. Rounds of Bread. Bloater Paste. i Egg for each round of bread. Some chopped Ham or Tongue. Some white Sauce. Pepper and Salt. Fry the rounds of bread and spread lightly with paste; now a layer of ham or tongue and season- ing. Add some white sauce to each; whip the white of egg, pile on the top; drop the yolk in the middle. Bake three minutes and serve hot. Miss M. V. Palmer. Fried Kidneys. After plunging the kidneys in boiling water, cut them in thin slices, and fry in hot butter; add pepper and salt and toss them for a few minutes in rich brown gravy. & Miss Baxter.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 99 Grilled Kidneys. Plunge the kidneys in boiling water, cut each one in half, and clip in egg, beaten up with salt and pepper; breadcrumb them,-clip them in melted butter, bread- crumb them again, then grill them before a slow fire, and serve with piquante sauce. Miss Baxter. Ham Cakes. A capital way of disposing of the remains of a ham and making an excellent dish for breakfast is: take i|lbs. ham, fat and lean together, put it into a mortar and pound it or pass it through a sausage machine. Soak a large slice of bread in |pt. of milk, and beat it and the ham well together; add one egg beaten up. Put the whole into a mould and bake a rich brown. Miss Baxter. Ham Toast. Grate and pound some cold ham; put it into a stew- pan with the yolk of an egg, a small piece of butter, and a little cream, pepper, and dry mustard. Stir till it is thick. Serve on buttered toast. A tomato may be added to the above, if liked. Mrs. II. W. Price. Hops d’oeuvre. Petites Bouehees a la Naylor. Stamp out sufficient rounds of bread for the number of people expected, and spread them with some cheese (doctored or seasoned Stilton, or any other at hand). Then spread with nice fresh butter. Place a curled anchovy in the centre; ornament round the anchovy with some design (small pyramids or circle) through a forcing bag. Mixture for ornamentation: Anchovy paste mixed with fresh butter, a nice pale pink colour. Place each on small plate with a fork and decorate with a few sprigs of mustard and cress. Mrs. C. H. N. Davidson.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 100 Indian Sandwiches. lake the white part of a fowl or pheasant; mince it small. Have three or four olives and anchovies, washed, and a little hot pickle, all minced and put in a basin; add a good spoonful of mayonnaise sauce. Cut thin slices of bread and butter, put a layer of this mixture between each slice, cut in neat shapes, and serve on a napkin. Miss Baxter. Macaroni Cheese. Macaroni. Grated Cheese. Milk. Pepper and Salt. Soak the macaroni in cold water for four hours, pour the water off and immerse it in milk for two hours. Add pepper and salt. Put it into a shallow dish with grated cheese between each layer; grate cheese on the top and bake in the oven for 20 or 30 minutes. Mrs. Shepherd. Mushroom Egg’s. Boil some eggs hard, cut them into rounds, and put the paste on them quite hot, with a round of toast under them. Make the paste thus: Take ketchup, mushroom powder, salt, some good stock or butter, and a little flour to make it a thick paste; add a little cream or butter. Mrs. Colegrave. Risotto. Put 2ozs. of butter with some finely chopped onion in it, into a stewpan and fry pale yellow; add Hb. of well washed rice, stirring it constantly for 2 minutes with wooden spoon; add about £pt. of stock gradu- ally and simmer gently, stirring very frequently, till the rice is just soft. Before it is quite finished addICING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 101 about 30ZS. of grated cheese (Parmesan is the best). Boil for 1 minute. Remove from fire and put it on a hot dish; add a little more butter and serve. St. Clair Thomson. Sardine Sandwiches. Pound some boned sardines in a mortar, adding a little butter, chopped parsley, pepper and tarragon or plain vinegar. Spread the mixture on bread and butter, and make into sandwiches. Mrs. Silk. Savoury Pudding’. Mb. Meat, minced fine. 2ozs. Breadcrumbs. 2ozs. cooked Rice or boiled Macaroni, cut small. 1 beaten Egg. 1 teacupful of Stock. Mix together the ingredients, season with pepper and salt, and with either herbs, onions (cooked), celery, mushroom, or tomato sauce, or a little curry powder or spoonful of anchovy essence. A small quantity of any sauce left over can be used. Butter a basin or cake-tin, dust it over with crumbs and fill just to top of tin. Cover with breadcrumbs and a buttered paper. Bake in a moderate oven for about t hour. Turn out of basin and serve with gravy. The pudding may be steamed instead of baked, but will take rather longer. This is a good way of using up small quantities of cold meat and vegetables and is liked as a change from rissoles. Miss Meredith. Savoury Puffs. Mb. Potatoes. 20zs. Flour. Yolk of 1 Egg. Pepper, Salt. A littled minced Meat. Mash the potatoes, and add the yolk of the egg and seasoning. Blend well into dry dough and rollIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 102 i inch thick. Cut into rounds and fill with the rissole mixture. Fold over and press together. Fry brown and serve. Miss Macpherson. Savoury Riee (1). Chop an onion very fine, and fry it in butter till it becomes a gold colour; then stir in a teacupful of rice. Let it cook in the butter for a few minutes, stirring all the time; then add one pint of good gravy, and let it simmer slowly. When nearly cooked, put a little grated nutmeg, Parmesan cheese, salt and pepper to taste; mix it well up, and when thoroughly done, let it stand a few minutes before the fire, and just before serving stir in a small piece more butter. Serve garnished with croquettes of any kind of meat, with stewed tomatoes or with slices of fried bacon. Miss Baxter. Savoury Riee (2). . Parboil some rice in plain water, then simmer till .quite done in some good gravy, with a little curry powder. Dish it with some fried eggs on the top. Miss Baxter. Savoury Spinach. 2lbs. of Spinach. |oz. of Butter. ^ gill of Cream, and croutons of Bread. Put the spinach into a saucepan with a little salt, and the lid off; cook, and rub through a sieve into a saucepan and add the cream and butter and serve on round croutons. Mrs. Crace. Savoury Tartlets. 30ZS. grated Cheese. 30ZS. Butter. 2 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. I teaspoonful Pepper. About 6ozs. Flour. A little Water. Rub the butter into the flour and add the water, kneadKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 103 very lightly and then roll out thin, fold in three and roll again; when it has been folded and rolled three times, line with it a dozen patty pans which you have greased. Now put in a basin the grated cheese, the seasoning, the yolks of the eggs, and mix well. Whip the whites of the eggs to a very stiff froth and add. Half fill the lined tins with this mixture anti bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. These patties may be eaten either hot or cold. Scalloped Eggs. 4 hard-boiled Eggs. 4 tablespoonfuls each of White Sauce and fresh Crumbs. 2 tablespoonfuls each of grated Cheese and chopped Ham. ioz. of Butter. Shell and slice the eggs, well butter the scallop shells and sprinkle each with ham, and breadcrumbs mixed with it. Put in the slices of egg, dust pepper and salt; sprinkle ham again, and a layer of bread- crumbs and cheese. Lastly, on top of each a few tiny bits of butter. Bake in a hot oven about io minutes; serve garnished with sprigs of parsley. Scotch Eggs. Boil some eggs hard; mince some cold meat very fine, with a little parsley, onion, pepper and salt. Spread all over the eggs; then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a little brown. Cut the eggs in half and serve with a brown sauce or gravy. The eggs are fried whole, cut afterwards, and arranged with the cut side uppermost, and dished with fried parsley. Spanish Eggs. 4 Eggs. 5 large Tomatoes. 20ZS. Butter. Whisk the four eggs very lightly, yolks and whites together, strain the tomatoes and pass them throughIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 104 a sieve. Dissolve the butter in a small saucepan. When hot pour in the eggs and tomatoes. Mix all together and season with a little salt and cayenne pepper (very little); keep whisking the whole until firm, then serve on hot toast, fried in butter. Miss H. Clements. Tartlets a la Diable. Line some patty pans with short paste, fill them with rice and bake in the oven; parboil some oysters in their own liquor, remove the beards and hard parts and cut up the remainder into small pieces; season well with cayenne and salt, add a little lemon juice. Take the liquor in which the oysters were cooked and add to it a thickening of butter and flour. Put in the cut-up oysters until cooked, then add (off the fire) the yolks of one or two eggs, according to quantity. Remove the rice from the tartlets, fill them with the oysters, and serve very hot with cayenne and cut lemon. Mrs. Rooke. Toast Savoury. 40ZS. of Butter. 30ZS. of Onions (finely chopped). 40ZS. of Tomatoes (finely chopped). 3 Eggs. 6 pieces of well-buttered Toast. 1 dessert-spoonful of Anchovy Sauce. 1 dessert-spoonful of Worcester Sauce. 1 dessert-spoonful of Parsley (finely chopped). Pepper and Salt to taste. Put the butter, parsley and onions into a saucepan and simmer till the butter boils. Then add (off the fire) the eggs, tomatoes and sauces. Mix well and return to the fire; let it all boil again, or until the eggs are set. Quickly serve the mixture on toast. Mrs. Crace.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Welsh Rarebit. Make some slices of toast about a quarter of an inch thick, trim off the crusts, and spread them with butter. Slice very thinly some rich cheese (about £lb.) into a stewpan; add a small teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a little salt and cayenne, ioz. of butter, and pour over it a very little ale or porter; let it simmer until quite hot, pour it on the toast, and serve immediately. Miss Baxter.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 106 Additional Recipes.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 108 PUDDINGS 6- PASTRY Angel Pudding 2 tablespoonfuls Ground Rice. 1 tablespoonful Cornflour, ipt. Milk. 5 Eggs. Pinch of Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls Caster Sugar. Small piece of Butter. Mix rice, salt, sugar and cornflour with a little milk. Put rest of milk with butter in saucepan, bring to the boil; now add the ingredients which have first been mixed and boil well for eight minutes. Let mixture cool, then add the beaten yolks and lastly the whipped whites. Bake at once for half- hour. Serve hot. Miss M. V. Palmer. Apple Fritters. 40ZS. fine Flour. Milk. 1 Egg. Apples. Caster Sugar. Mix the flour and milk to the consistency of cream, add a pinch of salt and the egg well beaten. Pare and core the apples, cut them in slices, dip them into the batter and fry in boiling lard. Serve with sugar sifted over. Apple and Custard Pudding. Put some stewed apple in a pie dish, have ready some boiled custard (cold), and when the apple isKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 109 cold pour the custard on the top and cover all with meringue. Then put it in the oven to make it quite hot and to harden the meringue. Miss Elderton. Apple Meringue Pudding. 1 teacupful Rice. 6 Apples. 2 Eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls sifted Sugar. Boil the rice, mix with it 2 yolks of eggs. Put apple in centre and rice round. Beat the whites of eggs with sugar till quite stiff, then cover the whole. Bake in slow oven with the oven door wide open. If closed the sugar crust will be soft and not crisp. Miss H. Clements. Apple Steffin. Line a pudding basin with pastry, not too thick. Before placing pastry in the basin rub basin with dripping, and put plenty of Barbadoes sugar (dark brown) all round. Then put in pastry and fill with sliced apples, sugar, and sufficient water to make a syrup. Fold pastry over it, add more dripping and sugar. Bake in a slack oven from lunch till dinner time. If you wish it to be somewhat richer, add to the apples a few currants, lemon peel, cloves and cinnamon. The pastry should be made with dripping. Mrs. Bernard Myers. A Simple Apple Pudding. Put some stewed apples into your pudding dish, and for a crust use as many slices of bread and butter as will cover the dish. Spread a thick layer of brown sugar on the top, and bake in oven till the sugar is nicely browned.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Apple and Cornflour Pudding1. Take 4 or 5 apples according to the size. Peel and cut them in slices, and lay in a dish. Sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them, then a thin layer of fresh butter, and over that a layer of jam. Take 2ozs. cornflour and a little sugar, mix it well with 1 pt. of new milk, stir it over the fire till it boils and pour over the apples and jam to cover them well. Bake about 1 hour. Mrs. Smart. Apple Fritters or Kromeskies. Any pastry that is left over from a tart will do for this dish. Roll it very thin, and have ready, cold, some stewed apples very soft, and till little rounds of the pastry with it. Fold over the pastry, egg and breadcrumb, and fry in plenty of clear boiling fat. This makes a delicious sweet with or without cream. An Old Oxfordshire Dish. iPbs. Flour. ilb. stoned Raisins. 1 lb. Currants. ... % 1 a Nutmeg,.,grated. ioozs. Beef Suet, chopped fine. 2 teaspoonfuls Salt. ^ teaspoonful grated Ginger. Add 3 well-beaten Eggs and enough Milk to make a stiff batter. Well grease a deep earthenware dish, pour in the pudcVng, put a wire meat stand in the middle, upon that nut a spare-rib of Pork, or a piece of juicy beef; bake"for two and a-half hours in a good oven. Miss Emma Durham. HOKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Almond Pudding1. 8ozs. ground Sweet Almonds. 8ozs. Caster Sugar. 8 Eggs, leaving out 4 whites. Beat the eggs well, and gradually add the sugar, and then the almonds; beat all together for \ hour. Line a tin or mould with oiled paper, pour in the mixture and immediately bake f of an hour in a slow oven. Great care must be taken not to open the oven for the first 20 minutes. When taken out of the mould, blanch some almonds, sufficient to make the pudding look like a porcupine. Serve cold; pour a little orange flower water, sweetened to taste, over the pudding. Prick the pudding with a very fine skewer to allow the orange flower water to flavour it. Mrs. Wilkinson. Austrian Pudding. 20zs. Butter. 2 dessert-spoonfuls-of 2 different jams mixed. j teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. 1 Egg, its weight in Flour and Breadcrumbs. Melt the butter, dredge in the dry ingredients, add the jam and the egg, well beaten, and lastly the soda. Have ready a pudding basin well buttered, put in the mixture and steam for an hour. Mrs. Abbot. Bombay Pudding. Take 2 lbs. of Soojee (Soojee is^a^ed flour, pounded and passed through the finest sieve), half roast it, then boil it in water till it becomes very thick; butter a soup plate (or deep dish about the same depth), pour the boiled Soojee in; when it has cooled and congealed cut it into 8 or more slices or shapes, rub the cakes over with the yolk of an egg, dredge with finelv-sifted flour and fry in butter till they become a rich brown Colour. Arrange prettily in a dish and pour over them a clear thick syrup, flavoured with lemon juice. Mrs. Macnamara,IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 112 Baked Treacle Pudding*. Line a buttered pie-dish with a layer of golden syrup; lay in some strips of buttered bread about a finger in thickness, fill up with a custard made of i egg and ipt. or more, of milk. Bake in a quick oven over | an hour; turn out and add a little golden syrup and squeeze of lemon before serving. Mrs. Abbot. Bakewell Pudding*. Line a flat pie-dish with light pastry, put a layer of strawberry or raspberry jam at the bottom. Mix together 30ZS. creamed butter, 30ZS. sugar, 30ZS. breadcrumbs, 30ZS. chopped almonds or ground almonds, and the grated rind and juice of a lemon, a little grated nutmeg, and 3 well-beaten eggs. Lay this over the jam and bake for about 20 minutes, slip the pudding out of the pie-dish when cold, and sprinkle caster sugar over and serve cold. Mrs. Terry. Baked Rhubarb and Custard Pudding*. ipt. stewed Rhubarb. ipt. Milk. fpt. Breadcrumbs. 2 Eggs. 20ZS. Sugar. Put the stewed rhubarb and breadcrumbs in a basin and mix well together; beat the eggs, stir in the milk and sugar, and add this cold custard to the rhubarb and breadcrumbs, mixing all well together. Put the mixture into a buttered pie-dish and bake in a moderate oven till slightly browned, then grate a little nutmeg over the top and put back in the oven until the pudding is quite set. Miss Elderton.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOOTH LONDON. Beignets de Pommes a la Bavarin. • 6 large Apples. Cooking Brandy. Cinnamon. ' Lemon Peel. Caster Sugar. Flour. Lard. Pare and quarter the apples, lay them to soak in brandy with some caster sugar, cinnamon and lemon peel; turn them often, and when near dinner-time dry them in a cloth, roll them about in fine flour and fry them tender in hot lard; sift over them some fine sugar and colour with a Salamander. Mr. Elin. Berlin Pancakes. 6ozs. Flour. 20zs. Butter. 20zs. Sugar. Some Jam. i Egg. i teaspoonful Baking Powder. A little Lemon. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, lemon and baking powder; beat the egg and mix with it: about i tablespoonful of milk. Make it into a paste and roll out to about iin., cut into rounds, put jam between and fry in hot fat. Sprinkle with caster sugar. Mrs. Rhys Powei.l. Boiled Bread Pudding1. ^lb. scraps of Bread. 2 tablespoonfuls Sugar. ioz. Suet. Lemon Rind or Nutmeg. Rb. Currants or Raisins. 1 Egg. 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls Milk. i teaspoonful Baking Powder.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Soak the crusts in cold water till quite soft; drain in a colander and press out the water, beat out lumps with a fork. Add the chopped suet, cleaned fruit, sugar, flavouring, and baking powder. Mix well, then add the beaten egg and milk as required. Put into a greased basin, cover with greased paper and steam for one and a-half hours. Mrs. Rhys Powell. Boston Apple Pudding-. Peel and core 6 large apples, stew until tender with a little lemon peel, strain off the water and add a piece of butter; nutmeg and sugar to taste; stir all until nearly cold. Add 3 eggs, beaten up first, then pour the whole into a dish lined with paste and bake it for three-quarters of an hour. Mrs. Tunnard. Christmas Pudding (1). 2lbs. finely-chopped Suet, i^lbs. brown Sugar, ilb. stoned Raisins. 1 lb. Currants. 1 lb. Sultanas. i^lbs. chopped, mixed Peel. Mb. Breadcrumbs. Mb. Flour. ^ saltspoonful Salt. 12 Eggs. \ teaspoonful mixed Spice. Will make about three medium-sized puddings. Should be boiled eight hours, and one and a half hours each pudding when wanted for use. Mrs. Silk. Christmas Pudding (2). 2lbs. Raisins. 2lbs. Currants. Mb. Sultanas. 2lbs. Suet.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 115 ilb. Flour. ilb. Breadcrumbs. i^lbs. Sugar. ^lb. Valencia Almonds, cut. 20zs. bitter Almonds, pounded. ilb. candied Lemon and Orange Peel. ilb. Citron. Grated rind and juice of a large Lemon. ioz. Salt. ioz. mixed Spice. i dozen Eggs. ipt. Brandy. To be well mixed together and boiled 12 hours. Miss Macpiierson. Christmas Pudding1 (3). Take of breadcrumbs, suet, currants and raisins 1 pound each, :}lb. orange peel, 2ozs. sweet almonds, 9 eggs, sugar, nutmeg, and brandy to your taste. Boil for four and a half hours, or, if to be steamed, cooked for seven hours. This is an excellent pud- ding, and only requires that the pudding should be well beaten; if made by recipe it is never clammy. Mrs. Fair bank. Cambridge Pudding. ioz. Lemon Peel, ioz. Citron Peel, ioz. Orange Peel. 6ozs. Butter. 6ozs. pounded Sugar. 4 Eggs (yolks). Puff Pastry. Line dish with puff pastry and on it: put the peel cut into slices. Warm butter and sugar, add well- beaten eggs, and stir over the fire until it is well thickened. Pour into dish and bake in slow oven. Miss M. V. Palmer.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Caramel Pudding1. ilb. raw Sugar (black is best). 4 Eggs and 2 yolks. ipt. Milk. 1 tablespoon ful Water. Sugar. Flavouring. Put the raw sugar in a stewpan with the water and boil until it begins to burn; then pour it into a mould and let it run round the sides and bottom. When the sugar is set, make a custard with eggs, milk, sugar and flavouring; pour it into the mould and stand in a saucepan of boiling water (the mould must be covered with paper and the water should reacn about half-way up the mould), then draw the saucepan off to the side and let it steam, but not boil, for about two hours. Miss M. Perkin. Chocolate Pudding*. 5ozs. Breadcrumbs, ioz. ground Almonds, jib. Chocolate. 30ZS. Sugar, fpt. Milk. 1 Egg. Boil the milk with the chocolate and sugar and pour over the breadcrumbs; add the yolk and white of egg well beaten (separately), and put the mixture into a buttered mould. Steam for two hours. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Currant Fritters. Five tablespoonfuls of flour, a pinch of sugar, the tiniest pinch of salt, mix. Add 1 egg, mix. Add about ipt. milk, stir to a good stiff batter. Add 2ozs. of currants, stir. Leave to stand one hour. Tllen—iast thing before frying—add one small tea- spoonful of baking powder, stir; stand a minute or two, stir a little. "To fry:—Put in a deep pan quite 6ozs. of lard; when it boils drop in spoonfuls of the it6KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 117 batter (not large, about the size of a big walnut; they will look twice as large when cooked), turn them about often. Fry for ten minutes; they should be a golden colour. As you take them out of the pan, put them on a warm plate on the hob, keep there till just before serving, then put them in the oven for two or three minutes. Sprinkle with caster ctip-ar Miss Heyer, Carrot Pudding1. i lb. of Flour. ^lb. of Currants, jib. of stoned Raisins, r^lb. of Sugar. 1 saltspoonful of Salt. -^lb. of Suet. :|lb. of Sultanas. |lb. of mixed Peel, jib. of grated Carrot. Mixed Spices to taste. Mix well, and steam for four hours. No eggs or milk required, as there is enough moisture in the carrot. A. Kino. Canary Pudding. 2 Eggs. 30ZS. Sugar. 20ZS. Butter. 20zs. Flour. The rind and juice of 1 Lemon. Melt the butter to a liquid state, but not to boil; stir into it the sugar and grated lemon rind, and gradually dredge in the flour, keeping the mixture well stirred. Whisk the eggs separately and add lemon juice to the mixture. Pour into a buttered mould, boil two hours and serve with raspberry jam and cream. Miss M. S. Owen.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 118 Chocolate Souffle. Blend a large dessert-spoonful of arrowroot with I pint °f milk, 2ozs. grated chocolate, and piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Bring all to the boil for a minute, then cool. Beat whites of two eggs to a stiff froth; mix beaten yolks with arrow- root, etc., then pounded sugar to taste (two table- spoonfuls), and lastly, the stiff whites. Bake in moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. Mrs. H. W. Price. Curd Cheese-Cakes. In iqt. milk put 1 tablespoonful rennet. When the curd is formed drain it well, then rub the curds through a sieve. With 2ozs. of butter add the yolks of 4 eggs (unbeaten), then add |lb. of sifted sugar, |db. of currants, 2ozs. of oiled butter, 2 tablespoon- fuls of brandy, and a little shredded citron. J. F. C. 7 Cup Pudding*. 1 small teacupful of Suet. 1 small teacupful of Flour. 1 small teacupful of Breadcrumbs. 1 small teacupful of Sugar. 1 small teacupful of stoneless Jam. Mix well together with J teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Dissolve in milk (warm). Use £ a cupful of milk. Boil 3 hours. Mrs. Bernard Myers. Cottag*e Pudding*. 1 teacupful Flour. § teacup fill Sugar. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. 20ZS. Butter. 1 Egg, and a little Mi'lk. The grated rind of 1 Lemon. Mix the flour and baking powder, rub in the butter, add the sugar and the egg well beaten with the milk. Butter a pie-dish, pour in the mixture, bake in a moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes; turn out and serve with jam on the top, or with wine sauce. Mrs. Abbot.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 119 Date Pudding’. ilb. Dates. {lb. Suet. ■fib. Flour. ' {lb. Sugar. Stone and chop the dates and suet very fine; mix all together, with as little water as it is possible to make it stick together with. Well butter a pudding basin, put in mixture, cover with a cloth, and boil for four and a-half hours. Miss Elderton. Easy-made Pudding. Take £lb. each currants, flour, and chopped beef suet, 40ZS. treacle, and breakfastcupful of milk; add a little spice; mix well together, and boil it in a cloth or basin for four hours. Miss Baxter. Egyptian Pudding. fib. Butler or Dripping. ilb. Raisins. fib. Breadcrumbs. {oz. Allspice. 4 Figs, chopped fine. 6ozs. brown Sugar. 2 Eggs. 2 glasses of Brandy. 20zs. Candied Peel. Mix all well together and put in a mould. Steam for four hours. Miss M. Harben. Frangipan of Apples. Place one dozen apples, peeled and cut in quarters, in a deep baking dish, grate some lemon peel over, with some pieces of butter; then cover with as much sugar as will sweeten it. Take 2ozs. arrowroot, mix with a little sugar, add to that ipt. of thin cream, stir that over the fire until it becomesIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 120 thick, then spread it over the apples. .. Bake in a moderate oven, one hour or one and a-quarter, and serve hot. Miss H. Clements. French Pancakes (1). Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with a spoonful of cream, then add 3 eggs and a little lemon peel and salt; beat them well together, then add a little new milk and another spoonful of cream, about a pint altogether. Make the frying-pan hot, and put just enough of the batter to cover the bottom. Fry it on one side just enough to lift out, and sift a little white sugar between each as you do so; put them on one another and salamander them over the top. Mrs. Tunnard. French Pancakes (2). 20zs. Butter. 20ZS. Flour. ^pt. Milk. 20ZS. Sugar. 2 Eggs. Mix butter and sugar well, add 2 eggs, then the flour; beat well, add 1 teaspoonful of baking powder and a little vanilla. Butter three saucers and put a little of this mixture in each. Place the saucers in a flat baking-tin, and bake for about 15 or 20 minutes in a moderate oven; turn out of the saucers and place one on the top of the other with a little jam spread between each. Serve hot. Mrs. Bernard Myers. Friends’ Pudding*. ^lb. rubbed Potatoes. Mb. finely-chopped Apples. Mb. Sugar. /ox 4lb. Butter. i juice and rind of a Leinon. Chop the rind very fine, mix. and bake one hour. Miss Perkin.^>-7.— y S/>nA& -S’- 2 A^f yL /UJ- /h*’ * /*»'***'■ “** £ ^ / /w «***~- ^ X /? t ^Lt^yc i'Ayz c 7~ t / '*“'**' •' *- " J lA w JftfZ' t/{\/fc<ud> ■ -/^A^d jfut V ^ ^ ^ ^ ' a ] '* Clr ^ //& P*^ r ' ^ //a4^. /&*££/&*■, d ^ '/■ j /& r '/,XV> A ^ ^W , xX W ^ ^ A/ ^ «^r ja/i-e-%i-ca* %^jr , ' 0*U kvj' '/fyi urc^i* i A^/~A> Ss***- yy%d ~ /' Afird* £*&l lO<U£y . 'fyA/77 /*/?''yUM &*- ydy*£{ y^Asyi. ^ - HrtCt / / mr>^- d ytAAA Z&c'Tt, / dtp'/' '/Hint £Jad£\/ . /Atd> /*Ad t£d ypddz ♦ ’fy/i<H-~- fvsuM- AM jfM? yf Jm* / d^d) Xt (fi cr^ f Z^a.1 ■n& 4^ , zxM / tyu*d f ^)-^- ;u&? 0U»~ &* it f&**»**■ *~" ^ -fid f°T- 3 tfju M 4ke <“ m it * **, ^ u^ Jfa Jafr, (_ X / </> (O fb ;od f Uf U <n tnJZ— iyiytu- hd lire S-fctr^Cf Add— £ Idh'c ■>Jtnmfut ■ of f^fttxcd- Uoe^l n -KUM tU+Tdr- (rr^ UtlL we 1 alt £ tncnUshd JUAU^, 1 the- c cd/7^d~^’'u>^ v&hc 2 fed- - ^ fj- zw * M ^ £ quads if aafay &>*- <fO'Vuni f (X (Tncm act. to 3 CT^nX^r / (^CcdU\^/ fr^ J’^XstsC'd— ^ //Ain jAm*-; //uxm Add a iuf^ f ^ 7 / tla A/urvn^J f DU ^ crUs*^ / Zoa/ d^<^- t/ty a jAmt ^ fnto^a- 4>&&/ Ptvi-x ddtA /u?->T. a /r <d a /unf Llud- 9 /Atf <i'am£ 3UA ' jLdt ( l/A^&de. <f, c<*«- /' —-, ;-- , )Lu V*~ ft,A" / "i*7A ^Cuet' ? frti $d d jy^ w Aten Add V , V „ r d:KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. . Felixstowe Tart. Mix 402s. cornflour with 402s. common flour, 1 teaspoonful (small) baking powder, 1 tablespoon- ful powdered white sugar; now rub in 302s. butter or lard; beat up the yolk of an egg with two table- spoonfuls of milk and stir it in. Knead the mass up into a light dough, roll it out to a round piece, fit it on a well-greased plate or round tin, roll up about an inch all round the edges, and crimp with the thumb and finger. Bake in a hot oven till of a golden brown, then nearly fill with stewed fruit or jam; spread over it the white of the egg beaten to a sntl froth, with a tablespoonful of caster sugar. Place the whole in a moderately heated oven, or before the fire, till it has set and is of a golden colour. Mrs. John Walters. Fauchonettes. 1 tablespoonful Flour. 1 tablespoonful Maizene, or Potato Flour. loz. Butter. T voiles of Eggs. A little Sugar. Put in a stewpan with ipt. milk and stir quickly over the fire till it forms a paste; flavour with orange flower water, when cold fill the small tartlei moulds lined with puff paste; bake them a light colour, then put a small piece of apricot marmalade in each and cover the tops with meringue paste and put them to dry either in a cool oven or hot closet. Miss A. FIobill. Fig Pudding (1). Mb. Sugar. 1 tablespoor^ul black Treacle. Mb. Figs, cut very small. Mb. Suet, cut fine. Mb. Breadcrumbs. A little Nutmeg, Salt and Milk. 3 Eggs. To be well boiled for four hours. J. F. C. I2XIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 122 Fig1 Pudding1 (2). Of luscious figs that Southern suns have dried, Take half a pound, in tiny squares divide; Of breadcrumbs, suet, sugar you shall weigh Six ounces each, and then shall make essay Two apples, with a critic’s eye to choose, Of flavour rich and free from speck and bruise. These also cut in squares. Of citron green Two ounces slice; and then with knife full keen A lemon’s rind chop into fragments small; Lastly four well beat eggs will leaven all. But stay, ere o’er the fire the whole you trust To boil four hours, throw in the merest dust Of grated nutmeg. When the pudding’s cooked A simple sauce should not be overlooked. Mrs. Beale. Friars’ Omelette. Well butter some patty pans or small saucers, strew the bottom and sides thick with breadcrumbs; fill,up the space with stewed fruit or jam, cover this over with crumbs and put a small piece of butter on the top of each. Bake about ten minutes, or till they are nice and brown. Then turn out on to a dish and serve very hot. Miss M. Harren. Gatakin Pudding1. Jib. Butter. Jib. Caster Sugar. Jib. fine Flour. Jpt. Cream. Apricot Jam. Mix the butter, flour, sugar, and cream together, and bake in a mould for half an hour, lurn it out of the mould; heat some apricot jam and pour all over the pudding. One whole egg and the whites of two may be used instead of the cream. Mr. Elin. . IKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOOTH LONDON. 123 Ginger Pudding. ^lb. Flour. fib. finely-chopped Suet Pb. brown Sugar. 2 Eggs ' 1 teaspoonful ground Ginger. 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. 2 teaspoonfuls Treacle. Mix well and steam three hours in well-greased mould. Serve with custard sauce. Mrs. Silk. Goolgoola. ilb. Flour. ilb. Sugar. ilb. Dripping or Butter. iqt. Milk. 6 small sticks of Cinnamon. A little Yeast or Baking Powder. Mix the flour with a little yeast and milk, and add sufficient water to bring it to a thick consistency, then mix in gradually the sugar and the remainder of the milk; place it on the fire, add the cinnamon, keep stirring it with a large wooden spoon, until it is again reduced to a thick consistency; remove it from the fire, and when it has cooled make it up into balls and fry in butter. Mrs. Macnamara. Ground Rice Cheese Cakes. i teacupful ground Rice, i teacupful white Sugar, i Egg (white and yolk beaten separately). Candied Peel, chopped very fine. Some Currants. A pat of Butter. Grated Nutmeg. Mix yolk of egg and sugar together, then add the white and rice. Have ready some little tins lined with puff paste. Put the above ingredients into them and bake in a hot oven. Mrs. Smart.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 124 Honeycomb Pudding*, 2OZ. Gelatine, soaked in ipt. of new Milk. 30ZS. loaf Sugar. Yolks of 2 Eggs, well beaten. Grated rind of 1 Lemon. Boil all together, then add juice of lemon and the whites of eggs beaten to a froth, stir and pour into a mould to set. Hasty Pudding*. Have, pan of milk on the side of the fire, and keep on throwing in a little flour till the milk becomes thick and lumpy like porridge, stirring all the time. Serve with golden syrup. Miss Perkin. Indian Pancakes. Boil a large red beetroot till it is very tender, then peel it, cut it into thin slices and pound it to a pulp, in a marble mortar, and strain through fine muslin. Add the yolks of 5 small or 4 large eggs, 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 4 tablespoonfuls of cream or milk, plenty of finely-powdered white sugar, and \ a grated nutmeg. Rub the whole into a batter and fry. Serve very hot, garnished with green candied fruits. Mrs. Macnamara. Jerusalem Pudding*. “ Setffin ” Mb. Raisins. Mb. Currants. Mb. brown Sugar. 6 large Apples, chopped small. Some Citron. Sweet Spice and a little grated Lemon Peel. Mix all well together. Make a rich paste of either butter or raw suet, cut it in three-cornered pieces. Then fill each piece of crust with the fruit, pinchKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 125 up the paste well together, and put them in a basin, which must first be covered with fat and coarse brown sugar, so that when the pudding is turned out it looks quite brown and glazey. It should be baked in a slow oven about 2\ hours, with a plate at the top of the basin. Clarified sugar to be poured over when sent to table. Mrs. Wilkinson. Jubilee Pudding-. ilb. Flour. Mb. Suet. 2 tablespoonfuls of Sugar. 6 tablespoonfuls of Strawberry Jam. 2 small teaspoonfuls of Carbonate of Soda. Mix the flour, suet, and carbonate of soda; then put in the jam and sufficient milk to make it the con- sistency of cake. Boil two hours and serve with lemon sauce. Miss M. S. Owen. Jam Puffs. J-Ib. Flour. 30ZS. Dripping. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Mb. mashed Potatoes. T Jam. Mix the flour and baking powder together, rub in the dripping, mix in the potatoes, and add cold water to make a stiff paste. Roll out very thinly, cut in rounds, put a spoonful of jam on each, wet the edges and fold them over. Put on a greased tin, and bake 10 minutes in a quick oven. Cost, £d. each. Mrs. Rhys Powell. Karthauser Klose. Cut some slices from the crumb of a French roll, soak them in milk, wine or cream. Egg and bread- crumb them, and fry a pale brown. Put raspberryIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 126 or apricot jam, or stewed pears on each slice, and some whipped or clotted cream on the top, or serve a nice custard or wine sauce with them. Lemon Riee Pudding1. Simmer 30ZS. of whole rice in a pint of milk till quite soft. Then add 30ZS. loaf sugar, 2ozs. butter, the peel of a lemon grated and the juice, and yolks of four eggs. Beat up the four whites with powdered sugar, and put on the top. Butter a dish, bake the pudding a light brown. It is best eaten cold. Miss Macphf.rson. Llandudno Pudding. 40ZS. Flour. 40ZS. Sugar. 40ZS. Suet. 1 Egg, well beaten. 2 tablespoonfuls Jam. A little Milk if necessary. Mix all well together, and steam for three hours. The basin must not be filled to the top. Mrs. Terry. Leicester Pudding. 20ZS. Lard. 20ZS. Caster Sugar. ^lb. best or foreign Flour. teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. 1 teacupful of Milk. 20ZS. Butter. 1 Egg. Rub the butter and lard into the flour, then add the sugar and baking powder, and lastly the egg and milk well beaten together. Mix all ingredients well together; butter a basin and put a little jam in the bottom, then the mixture. Steam for one and a-half hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Mr. Elin.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 127 Lemon Cheese-Cakes (1). ilb. Sugar, broken into small lumps. 6 Eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites. 3 Finger Biscuits, grated. Juice of 3 .Lemons. Rind of 2 Lemons, ilb. Butter. Put these ingredients into a pan over a slow fire; stir gently till the mixture looks like noney. If to be kept any time, tie down in a jar, set it in a coni, dry place, and it will keep good for some weeks. Lemon Cheese-Cakes (2). 2lbs. pounded lump Sugar. 6 Eggs. 6ozs. Butter. Peel of 3 Lemons. Juice of 4^ Lemons. Boil together till it thickens and looks clear. Tie over in jars. Mr. Napper. Lemon Pudding1. Beat the yolks of 4 eggs, add 40ZS. of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of sugar to take the essence, then the peel, and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix -all with 4 or 50ZS. of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. Bake. When served turn the pud- ding out of the dish. Miss H. Clements. Maud’s Pudding. |lb. of Flour. 30ZS. of Butter. 20zs. of Sugar. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Rub the ..butter into the flour, add the sugar and egg, and beat. Put into a greased basin in which a layer of raspberry jam has been put, and steam for 1 hour. Mrs. McClintock.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 128 Miss Garfit’s Pudding*. 2 Eggs. Their weight in brown Sugar, Flour, and Butter. J teaspoonful (or less) of Carbonate of Soda, i tablespoonful of Raspberry Jam. Mix all together, boil for two hours in a mould, and serve with wine or brandy sauce. Mrs. Flux. Mincemeat (1). 6 large Lemons. 6 large Apples. 2lbs. Raisins. 2lbs. Currants. 2lbs. Suet. 3lbs. Sugar. 30ZS. Citron. 30ZS. Orange Peel. 20ZS. Lemon Peel. 2 teacupfuls Brandy. 4 tablespoonfuls Orange Marmalade. Grate the rind of the lemons, squeeze out the juice, strain, and boil the remainder of the lemons until tender enough to pulp and chop very finely; then add to this pulp the apples, which should be baked and their stems and cores removed. Put in the remaining ingre- dients one by one, and as they are added mix ever)- thing very thoroughly together. Put the mincemeat into a stone jar with a closely fitting lid; in a fort- night it will be ready for use. To be made first week in December. Mrs. Fairbank. Mincemeat (2). One pound of the best kidney suet chopped very fine, add to this 3lbs. of Wellington apples, peeled and put through the mincer, 1 lb. of raisins, stoned and minced, ilb. currants, well washed and dried, Jib. of mixed peel, chopped fine, 2ozs. sweetKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. F 129 almonds, ioz. bitter almonds, blanched and put through the mincer, ^oz. of allspice, 6 cloves poun- ded, the grated rind of 2 lemons and juice of one, ipt.’ brandy. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly; let it remain three days before adding the brandy. Stir well each day. Put into a stone jar, cover with oiled paper soaked in a little brandy, tie or seal it down "tightly until required, and keep in a dry place. Mrs. MacAllister per Miss Monk. Malaga Pudding. 50ZS. Breadcrumbs. 20ZS. Butter. 20zs. Sugar. Grated rind of Lemon and juice. 2 Eggs. Raisins lining the basin, and lemon peel. Steam for two hours. Mrs. Terry. Marmalade Pudding. ^lb. Breadcrumbs. 1 tablespoonful Flour. 6ozs. finely-chopped Suet. 3 well-beaten Eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls Marmalade. 3 tablespoonfuls Caster Sugar. 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Grated rind and juice of i Lemon. Steam 3^ hours in well-greased basin and serve with marmalade sauce made as follows: — 2 tablespoonfuls of marmalade mixed with 1 tumbler of boiling water, strain into a saucepan, add 1 table- spoonful caster sugar, and thicken with a little corn- flour, mixed with cold water and added when the strained mixture boils. Boil up and serve hot with the pudding. Mrs. Silk.IN AID OF THE’FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 130 Obletjes. 2lbs. fine Flour. ilb. Caster Sugar. fib. Butter. 4 Eggs. 2 dessert-spoonfuls fine ground Cinnamon. 5pt. white Wine. Beat the butter to a cream, mix with the sugar; add the eggs, whisked separately, the wine, and lastly the flour, in which the cinnamon has been mixed. If the batter is not quite thin enough to spread, mix a little more wine with it. Bake in oublie-pan (wafer pan), put about a dessert-spoonful on the pan; shut tight and hold over the fire to brown on both sides (takes about two minutes). Open the pan, roll oublie as you would a pancake, while hot. They should be very crisp and light, and as thin as a wafer. Mrs. McD. Troup. Orange Pudding*. The juice and grated rind (rubbed on Sugar) of 6 Oranges. ^pt. Cream. 6ozs. bruised Ratafias, or Sponge Cakes. 6 yolks and 2 whites of Eggs (whipped). A bit of Nutmeg and Cinnamon. 6ozs. pounded Sugar. A little Salt. Mix the above well together in a basin and work it with a whisk for io minutes. Put a border of puff paste round the edge of a pie-dish. Spread the dish with butter, pour the batter into it. Strew some pistachio kernels on the top and bake £ hour. When done, sift a little sugar on the top and serve. Miss A. Horili..KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 131 Orange Pudding*. 4 Oranges. Caster Sugar. 2 Eggs, ipt. Milk. Peel the oranges and remove all pith and pips; cut them into quarters, lay them in a pie-dish, and sprinkle with caster sugar. Make a custard with the yolks of eggs and milk, and pour it over the oranges. Whip the whites of the eggs, cover over the top, and bake in a slow oven for 20 minutes. Mrs. MacAli.ister pur Miss Monk. PofTertjes. All). Butter. fib. Flour. ipt. Milk or Water. 6 Eggs. 1 lb. Lard. Add the butter to the boiling milk or water, then stir in gradually the flour till it ceases to adhere to the saucepan; let the mixture cool on a dish, then stir in the eggs, yolks and whites whisked separately. Put the lard into a saucepan, and when it boils well, put lumps of the dough, about a teaspoonful at a time, into the saucepan, keeping the puffs down with a skimmer (as they will rise to the top of Pie fat) till they are a light brown colour. Serve hot with white sugar. Mrs. McD. Troup. Picnic Pudding. 6ozs. of Flour. 6ozs. of Suet, fib. of Currants. A little Nutmeg, Ginger, and Candied Peel. 3 Eggs. 6ozs. of Breadcrumbs. 6ozs. of Raisins (cut). 6ozs. of Sugar, fpt. of Milk. Chop the suet fine and mix all together; put theIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 132 mixture into a Yorkshire pudding tin, which has been well greased, and bake in a moderate oven. Can be eaten hot or cold. Mrs. Beale. Plum Pudding1. Three-quarters pound beef suet minced very fine, add to this 2lbs. breadcrumbs, ilb. raisins, stoned, ilb. sultanas, ilb. currants, |lb. mixed peel, ilb. brown sugar. Remove all stems from the sultanas, well wash the currants, pass all through the mincing machine, then add the grated rind of 2 lemons, 6 eggs, i teaspoonful of mixed spice, I small stick of cinnamon, I cup of flour. Mix all the ingredients thoroughly, then add the eggs well beaten, a pint of milk, a pinch of salt, a wineglassful of essence of cherries, ioz. sweet almonds, blanched and pounded; keep mixing well for 20 minutes. Put into well buttered basins, tie down tightly and boil for six hours. Will keep any length of time if required. Mrs. MacAllister per Miss Monk. Potato Cheese-Cakes. Put through a sieve ^lb. cold boiled potatoes, mixed with ^lb. fresh butter, -|lb. castor sugar, thin rind of lemon grated, and the juice. Mix together with 2 eggs. Put this in the pastry. Miss Bircii. Prince Albert Pudding. ^lb. Butter. ^lb. powdered Sugar. 5 Eggs. |lb. Raisins. £lb. Flour. Beat the butter to a cream, acid the sugar sifted, the yolks, and then the whites of tlie eggs (well whisked separately), the raisins, and then add by degrees the flour. Put it into a shape and boil three hours. Serve with sauce.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. T 33 Preserved Ging-er Pudding1. Jib. Butter. jib. Sugar. 40ZS. Flour. £ teaspoonful Baking Powder. 2 Eggs. 20ZS. Preserved Ginger. 2 tablespoonfuls of the Syrup. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, drop in 1 egg and 2ozs. of flour, and beat for live minutes; add another egg and 2ozs. of flour, and beat again. Cut the preserved ginger into small pieces, add it to me mixture with the syrup, and mix well; stir in the baking powder, and mix well again. Put it into a buttered mould, and steam for two hours. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Plain Pudding1. ipt. hot Milk. 2 Eggs. 1 teacupful Breadcrumbs. Jam. Thicken the milk with breadcrumbs until it is like cream; beat eggs well, leaving out one white, which is to be whipped stiffly; add egg to milk, pour all into a buttered dish, and bake gently till done (about three-quarters of an hour). Turn out, spread with jam, and then spread white of egg on the top. Brown slightly. Miss M. V. Palmer. Pineapple Pudding1. 20zs. Flour. 20ZS. Butter. 20ZS. Sugar. 2 Eggs. 1 tin Pineapple Chunks, fpt. of Milk and Juice. Put the butter into a saucepan, and when melted stir in the flour, add the milk, and stir till it boils. TakeIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 134 it off the fire, and stir in half the sugar, and when cool enough put in the yolks of eggs. Place the pineapple in a pie-dish, and pour the mixture over it, and put it in the oven to set. Take it out, whisk up the whites of eggs with the remainder of the sugar, put it on the top of the pudding, return the dish to the oven and brown slightly. Serve cold. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Railway Pudding*. i teacupful Flour. 3 teacupful Sugar, i teacupful Milk. ioz. Butter. i Egg- i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Rub the butter well into the flour, add the sugar, then mix with the egg and milk and stir in the baking powder. Bake in a buttered tin for I hour, or steam in a basin. Turn out and pour hot jam over. Mrs. Heynes. Riee Cheese-Cakes. jib. ground Rice, jib. loaf Sugar. Rb. Butter. 2 Eggs. Rind of i Lemon. Juice of 3 Lemon. Beat butter to a cream, then add the sugar, rice, eggs, and lemon. Mix well. Line tins with paste, and put in a teaspoonful of mixture. Mrs. Fairbank. Russian Pudding*. Put ioz. butter into a ste'wpan; when warm stir into it one spoonful of flour. Whisk it well, add gradu- ally -|pt. of good milk boiling hot, in which must be dissolved sugar and flavouring. When well mixed, let it boil again until it is a nice batter. Let it standKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. '35 till cold, then add the yolks of 2 eggs. Beat it well together; whip the whites to a strong fioth, stn them lightly into the pudding. Butter the mould well, and grate it all over with bread raspings. Cover it with paper and steam it three-quarters of an hour. Mrs. Tunnard. Rothesay Pudding1. {lb. Flour. {lb. Breadcrumbs. {lb. Suet, i Egg. i teacupful Jam. i teacupful Milk, i dessertspoonful Sugar. { teaspoonful Soda. { teaspoon ful Vinegar. Mix well together, dissolving soda in vinegar (which add last). Steam two and a naif hours. Miss M. Harben. Sago Rice. Three tablespoonfuls of ground rice, 2ozs. sago, boil in ipt. milk. Mix into it three eggs; sugar to taste. Steam three hours. Mrs. Wood. School Pudding. {lb. Flour. 3 or 40ZS. Suet. 40ZS. Raisins, or more. 20ZS. Sugar. 1 Egg (or omit it). {pt. Milk. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder (to be put in the Flour dry). Very little Nutmeg. A pinch of Salt. Mix all together, adding the milk last. It can either be baked or boiled. Boil quite 2 hours or more. Sweet white sauce to be served with it. Mrs. Smart.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Sponge Pudding*. i teacurAjl Flour. 5 tc(0ffjful Sugar, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, i tablespoonful Lard or Beef Dripping, i Egg. A little Milk. Mix the fiour and baking powder together, rub in the lard (with the hand), add the sugar and the egg well beaten with the milk. Butter a pudding basin, put a little red jam in the bottom, put in the mix- ture, leaving enough room for the pudding to rise. Steam for I hour. Serve with jam. Mrs. Abbot. Suet Pudding. Mb. Flour. |lb. (or less) Suet. 2 tablespoonfuls Breadcrumbs. 1 dessert-spoonful Sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Mix with milk and boil or steam ij hours, in a basin, well greased. Mrs. Smart. Short Pastry. Mb. Flour. 20zs. Butter. 20zs. Sugar. Mix these first, and afterwards add the yolk and white of an egg well beaten up. Miss C. Clements. Saddington Pudding. Cut off the crust from a stale baker’s loaf, spread the crumb with raspberry jam and set it in layers in a dish. Make a good thick custard and pour it over the bread and leave it to soak 12 hours, or more, before eating. It should not be baked or boiled or cooked in any way, because that would spoil it. You had better make plenty, as you will probably have a second helping. ^'RS- Iunnard. T36KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Semolina Pudding1. To one quart of rich milk drop in, while boiling, a small teacupful of semolina, a pinch of salt, and a gill of thick cream; boil gently 20 minutes; then put it in a pudding basin or mould. Stand it on ice or in a very cold place till wanted. When served pour a thick fruit syrup round it. Mrs. Tunnard. Stanley Pudding. 20ZS. Butter. 20ZS. Sugar. 2 Eggs. £pt. Milk. 2ozs. Flour. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the flour and eggs alternately; beat well together, then add the milk. Bake from 20 to 30 minutes in a quick oven. Miss Heygate. Sultana Pudding. 6 tablespoonfuls Suet. 2 tablespoonfuls Sugar. tablespoonfuls Flour. 8 tablespoonfuls Sultanas or Currants. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. 1 Egg. A little Nutmeg. Mixed Peel. Mix all together with a little milk to rather a slack size. If mixed too stiffly it will not eat mellow. Boil for two or three hours. “ Two Two ” Pudding. 2 tablespoon fuls of Marmalade. 2 tablespoonfuls of Flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of Butter. 2 tablespoon fuls of Caster Sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls of Breadcrumbs. 2 Eggs. Mix flour, butter, sugar and breadcrumbs (melting x37IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF the butter), add the eggs well beaten; line a shallow dish with puff paste, put in the mixture, and bake about f of an hour. Mrs. Abbot. The Todd Plum Pudding*. i^lbs. \alentia Raisins (when stoned), ijlbs. Suet. 5 tablespoonfuls Breadcrumbs. 5 tablespoonfuls Sugar. 8 Eggs. i wineglassful Brandy. Mace. ?lb. mixed Peel. Mix raisins, suet, crumbs, sugar, and peel well together, then add eggs and brandy. Boil for seven hours. Miss Todd. A Dublin receipt which has been in the family of the late Robert Bentley Todd, M.D., F.R.S., for the last hundred years. Treacle Spong*e. 2 tablespoonfuls Flour. 6ozs. Suet. 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Bb. brown Sugar. 1 pinch of Salt. 2 Eggs. i tablespoonful Treacle. Put all by degrees into a basin. Stir well together. In another basin beat the eggs, add a little milk, and the treacle. Stir. Put into a basin, gradually stirring up all the time with the other things. Then put in a buttered mould, tie up with a cloth and steam for three hours. F. Austin.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 139 Turkish Pastry.—“ Kourabiedes.” Rub £lb. of fresh butter into £lb. of the finest rice flour;'add £lb. of finely powdered sugar, and a pinch of salt. Moisten, into rather a firm paste with orange flower water; knead lightly and divide into balls the size of a mandarin orange; bake for half an hour between sheets of buttered paper. Powder with sugar when done. Miss Baxter. Transparent Snowden Pudding’. jib. Breadcrumbs. jib. fresh Beef Suet, chopped fine. Mb. brown Sugar. Juice of i Lemon and ^ the rind grated. Put these, after mixing well, into a buttered mould or basin, with either raisins or currants stuck in the mould. Boil for one hour. The mould must be quite full, or the water gets in and spoils it. Serve with melted butter and marmalade syrup added to it. Miss A. Todd. Treacle Pudding. Mb. Beef Suet. Mb. Flour. 5 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Pinch of Salt. Mix with cold water, as little as possible; roll out and line a basin with the suet crust. Put in a table- spoonful of treacle or golden syrup, then a layer of the crust; repeat till the basin is full; cover with a cloth. Boil or steam for three hours or more. Turn out of basin and serve hot. Mrs. Rhys Powell.IN AW OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 1 Treacle Sponge. tjlb. Flour. 20zs. Suet. i teaspoonful Baking Powder, i teacupful Golden Syrup. If not sufficient to mix it, add a little milk; beat it well, flavour with ginger if liked. Steam four hours. Miss Perkin. Vegetable Puddling. ^lb. Flour. Ijlb. moist Sugar. ^lb. Currants. Mb. Raisins. Mb. Potatoes. Mb. Carrots. Mb. Suet. • i Nutmeg. 20ZS. mixed Peei. The potatoes and carrots to be grated. The whole to be well mixed and boiled five hours. Mrs. Rooke. iTfave for many years made all my Christmas pud- dings for rich and poor, from 12 to 20 each year, from the above recipe, and found it never to fail. It is a useful and excellent -puddifig at other times. A. R. I4QKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Additional RecipesIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Additional RecipesKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. CREAMS AND COLD SWEETS. Apple Snow. 6 large Apples. ^lb. sifted Sugar. Whites of 2 Eggs. 6 penny Sponge Cakes. Apricot Jam. i glassful of Brandy, i wineglassful of Water. Bake six large apples; take care that they do not brown or get discoloured. Pulp them through a sieve and leave till cold. Beat them up with a whisk till white and frothy. Add the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff; sprinkle in gradually the sifted sugar and continue beating until like whipped cream. In the bottom of the glass dish put the sponge cakes, cut in halves, with jam between each slice. Pour over them the brandy and water mixed. Leave it to soak one hour. Pile the apple snow over the cakes, ornament with angelica and crystallised cherries. The apple snow can also be served in a glass dish or custard glasses without any sponge cakes. Mrs. H. W. Price. A Cold Pudding*. Butter a mould and decorate it with preserved cherries or any other small fruit. Have ready some sponge biscuits or cake, soaked in some wine or brandy, and add sugar to taste. Put this into a mould. Make separately a good custard flavoured with vanilla, lemon peel and cinnamon. Mix £oz. of isinglass in a very little water, when melted and a M3IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 144 little cool, mix it with the custard and then put it in the prepared mould. A little chopped candied peel is an improvement. Let it stand till quite cold and serve with a good custard or some preserve in the dish. Mrs. Coleg rave. Banana Cream (1). 12 Bananas, i wineglassful Brandy. Sugar. Cream. Peel and slice the bananas, place them in a shallow dish, pour over them the brandy; sweeten some slightly whipped cream, pour over the bananas and serve. Mr. Elin. Banana Cream (2). i^ozs. Gelatine. 6 Bananas. i Lemon. 5pt. Cream. Sugar to taste. Flavouring of Benedictine or other liqueur. Skin the fruit and put it into a saucepan with the gelatine (dissolved in half cupful of water) the lemon rind, juice, and loaf sugar, and simmer for about io minutes. When cold, beat up with it the cream, and flavour to taste with the liqueur. Mould in the usual way. Mrs. Bell. Blane Mange (1). Dissolve ioz. isinglass in |pt. water over the fire; beat |oz. of sweet and bitter almonds, a little lemon peel and sugar to taste; add Jpt. of cream to it. Strain through muslin and then add a little brandy. J. F. C.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Blanc Mange (2). One ounce isinglass to a quart of cream, cinnamon, brandy and sugar to taste. Dissolve the isinglass in as little water as possible, then add the cream, etc.; simmer altogether a few minutes. Mrs. Fairbank. Coffee Custard. i breakfastcupful strong Coffee. 3 breakfastcupfuls Milk. 4 Eggs. White Sugar to taste, i teaspoonful Cornflour. A little Branson’s Coffee Extract. Make like ordinary boiled custard. Serve in cus- tard glasses, with a little whipped cream on top. Mrs. Silk. Coffee Junket. 3 tablespoonfuls Caster Sugar. 4 breakfastcupful strong;, clear Coffee, ipt. Milk. 5 teaspoonful Vanilla. i tablespoonful Rennet. Dissolve the sugar in the hot coffee, add the milk and flavouring; the mixture should be lukewarm. Put the rennet into the other ingredients, and pour all into a glass dish. Whipped cream may be served with it when set. Miss M. Harben.' Coffee Mould. ipt. Milk, ioz. Gelatine, jib. lump Sugar. 1 teacupful strong Coffee. Boil all together for 10 minutes, then add a few drops of lemon juice, which makes it curdle a little; then pour into a wet mould. Miss Ei.derton. M5IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 146 Chocolate Mould. To one gill of milk, well sweetened and boiled, add 3ozs. grated chocolate; have ready the yolks of 3 eggs, pour the chocolate over them, put it in the pan again and stir it well for a second or two. When the chocolate is cold add to it a gill of whipped cream, then whip all together till it is light. Pour it into the mould; whip up another gill of cream to pour round. Mrs. Terry. Cream Shape. Line a round cake tin with Savoy biscuits split in half. Stick the edges together with white of egg. Dissolve a sixpenny tablet of Chivers’s raspberry jelly in Jpt. of water; whip ^pt. of cream very stiff, and when the jelly is nearly cold whisk all together and pour into the tin. A little caster sugar may be added to the cream if liked. Miss Clark. Creme au Choeolat. Take 2ozs. vanilla chocolate, grate it finely and mix it to a smooth cream with a little boiling milk; add a heaped tablespoonful sifted sugar and stir until the latter is dissolved; add also a few drops of essence of vanilla; next add the well beaten yolks of 3 eggs, and by degrees a pint of boiling milk; stir all the while one way whilst adding the milk. Lastly add the whites of 4 eggs whisked to a firm froth. Pour into a slightly greased mould, tie down tightly with buttered paper and bake in a moderately quick oven for from 30 to 35 minutes. Turn out very carefully, pour a cream sauce over and around and serve at once. The cream sauce may be made thus: Bring the contents of a fivepenny jar or Jpt. of cream to boiling point; if it seems at all thin, thicken it by means of a little arrowroot; add sugarKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 147 to taste and a few drops essence of vanilla, and use as directed above. If double cream is used the arrowroot may be omitted, only using sugar and flavouring. Custard Mould. ioz. Gelatine. 20zs. Caster Sugar. i^pts. Milk. 4 Eggs. Juice of half a Lemon. Steep' gelatine in milk for one hour, then put it on the fire with sugar; beat up eggs (whites and yolks separately); pour gelatine, etc., on to yolks, stirring all the time. Add lemon; nut on fire and bring nearly to boil. Pour in whites well beaten, stir once and immediately pour into wet china mould. The lemon makes the milk curdle, and it becomes spongy at bottom and clear at top; if lemon is omitted it looks like plain custard. Miss Ei.derton. Cold Fruit Pudding-. Line a basin with pieces of bread, not cut too thinly and not crust. Stew some raspberries and red currants, with sugar to taste. Pour them on to the bread, put another layer of bread on top; press tightly, let it stand all night, or several hours; turn it out into a glass dish. Make a custard and pour round the pudding and serve cold. Any other fruit may be used. Mrs. Rhys Powell. Cream Tapioca. Take 6ozs. tapioca, soak it well in iqt. of new milk, boil well and let it get quite cold. Whip up ^pt. of cream, add the tapioca, well beat it and flavourIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 148 with vanilla and sugar, and put any kind of preserve round it. Rice cream can be made in the same way —use rice instead of tapioca. Miss H. Clements. Chocolate Sponge. Cut 30ZS. of chocolate in small pieces, put it in a saucepan with 2 tablespoonfuls of water and let it melt; add a few drops of vanilla, let it get nearly cool, beat the whites of 3 eggs to a very stiff froth, and stir slightly into the chocolate. Heap the mixture in a dish, cut half a tin of pineapple into small squares, and arrange round the sponge. Miss M. S. Owen. Caledonian Cream. The whites of 2 Eggs, beaten stiff. 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls of Raspberry Jam. 2 tablespoonfuls of Red Currant Jelly. To be beaten together with a silver spoon till so stiff that the spoon will stand upright in it. Put it in a glass dish and ornament with ratafias, if liked. Mrs. H. W. Price. Chocolate Cream (1). Cover ioz. gelatine with water, pound 30ZS. of chocolate with caster sugar to taste. Put it into a saucepan with f pint of milk; stir till it thickens, but do not allow it to boil; when entirely dissolved take away from fire and stir in the yolks of 3 eggs, pre- viously beaten, and add the gelatine. Whisk in | pint of cream. When the mixture is nearly cold, put into it a teaspoonful of vanilla. Pour into china mould, and allow it to stand in a cool place until the following day. Mrs. H. W. Price.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 149 Chocolate Cream (2). iqt. of sweet Milk. £lb. Chocolate. 6d. packet Gelatine. Vanilla flavouring. Grate chocolate, mix all the ingredients but the flavouring, and pour into a good-sized jug. Stand it in saucepan of cold water, stir occasionally, when water has boiled 15 minutes, cream is ready. Stir now and then till nearly cold. Add flavouring, and pour into mould. To make cream turn out, dip one minute in boiling water. Mrs. II. W. Price. Chestnut Cream. Take one dozen fine chestnuts, remove the husks and put them to boil in a pint of milk, slightly sweetened with lump sugar. When quite tender, drain away the milk, mash the chestnuts with ioz. of sifted sugar, a few drops of essence of vanilla. Rub the chestnuts through a coarse tin gravy strainer, keep- ing the puree as light as possible, in order that it may look like vermicelli. Whip firm Jpt. of thick cream, and place it in the middle of a glass dish, then strew the chestnuts over it, keeping it in as good a shape as possible. The moment before serv- ing, pour round the base some syrup of cherries, slightly favoured with vanilla. Soak a few cherries in brandy for an hour and place at equal distances round the cream. Currant jelly with a little water will do instead of the syrup of cherries. Mrs. Beale. Compote de Poires a la Creme Vanille. Take some nice large stewing pears and cook slowly with a small stick of cinnamon and sugar, for 2I to 3 hours. Take them up and let them cool; reduce the syrup in which they were cooked to the consist-IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF ency of thick cream. When the pears are cold, stamp out the cores and fill up the centres with stiffly whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla and a little sugar, using a forcing bag and rose pipe for the purpose. Dish up, and pour the syrup round, and stand on the ice for two hours before serving. A few shredded sweet almonds or Pistachio nuts can be sprinkled on the tr,p. Lady Playfair. Chocolate Nougats a la Creme. 8ozs. grated Chocolate. 6ozs. fresh Butter. Cream the butter, stir in the chocolate, mix well ; line some plain dariole moulds with the mixture rather thickly, leaving a hole in the centre. Let them stand till next day in a cool place. Turn out by dipping them in warm water and running a thin knife round sides; roll in desiccated cocoanut and fill with pink and white whipped cream. St. Clair Thomson. Cornflour Blanc Mange. 2^oz. (5 tablespoonfuls filled level with the top of the spoon) Brown and Poison’s “ Patent ” Cornflour. 2pts. (3 large or 4 small breakfastcupfuls) good sweet Milk. 1 tablespoonful Sugar. 1 teaspoonful Butter. 1 strip thin Lemon Rind. A pinch of Salt. Mix the cornflour to a smooth cream with a little of the milk. Heat the rest of the milk, with the lemon rind, to the boiling point in a roomy enamelled saucepan. Remove the saucepan from the fire and take out lemon rind. Pour the mixed cornflour slowly into the heated milk, stirring vigorously. Add the butter, sugar, and salt. Then boil well for ten minutes (by the clock), stirring all the time. Pour into a 2-pt mould and cool. When cold, turn out x5°KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 151 and serve. To make a i-pt. shape, use half the above quantities. To make i£-pt. shape use 2oz. cornflour (4 tablespoonfuls filled level with the top of the spoon), i£pts. milk (2$ large or 3 small breakfast- cupfuls). Cream Mould. ipt. thick Cream. Lump Sugar. 1 wineglassful of Sherry. wineglassful of Brandy, i Lemon. Rub the rind of the lemon with the sugar, add the cream, sherry, brandy and juice of Lie lemon; whisk all together until thick, then put into the mould. A perforated cream mould is essential. Dip a piece of muslin in water, spread it in the mould, put in the cream, and place it in a dish for the whey to drain. After an hour or two it is ready for use. Miss Sumner. Cream au Caramel. In ii pints milk soak rather more than |oz. gelatine, add about 12 lumps of sugar and the yolks of 4 eggs, beaten, and boil until dissolved, and stir till cool. Have plain tin mould, which must be placed in boil- ing water. Put about 12 lumps of sugar into a saucepan with two or three spoonfuls of boiling water; stir carefully until the sugar is burnt, then put into the mould and turn it about, and add the cream, which must be flavoured with vanilla. When cold, serve with custard round it. Eg*g* Cream. 2 Eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls Sugar. Grated rind and juice of 1 Lemon. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar in a basin until well mixed, then put in the lemon juice andIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 152 rind, and place the basin in a dish of boiling water on the fire; stir slowly until the mixture thickens then add the beaten whites of the eggs and stir it for two minutes, until the whole resembles a thick cream. Pour it into a small pie-dish to cool; when cold turn it into a glass dish and serve with any kind of stewed fruit. Mrs. MacAllister per Miss Monk. French Pastry and Chocolate Eclairs. ^pt. Water. 50ZS. Vienna Flour. 20ZS. Butter. 3 Eggs. Put butter, salt and water into a saucepan; when boiling add flour; stir all together till quite smooth. Cook over a gentle fire for five minutes; let the mix- ture cool, then add the eggs one by one, beating them in thoroughly. Put the mixture into a forcing bag with plain tube, and force it on to a baking-tin into three-inch lengths; brush over with egg, and bake 30 minutes; when cold make an incision down the sides and fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured to taste; dip each in transparent chocolate icing-. Miss M. Harben. Flower Baskets. Genoese pastry, jam, cocoanut, pistachios, cream, angelica. Stamp out small cakes of the pastry, scoop out part of the centre, spread the edge of half with raspberry jam, dip in cocoanut, and spread the other half with apricot jam, and dip in the pistachios. Fill the centre with whipped cream; put strips of angelica over the top to form handles. Miss M. Harben. Flummery. Disolve foz. of gelatine in \ pint water, add the yolks of 5 eggs, very well beaten, £ pint white wine,KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. the juice and rind of a lemon; sweeten to taste. Put in a saucepan over fire till it thickens, and then stir till nearly cold, when pour into moulds. Mrs. Douglas Smith. Fairy Butter. Take a slice of sponge cake, pour a little wine on it, and let it stand all night (put jam on the cake if liked). Take the yolks of four eggs, boiled hard; beat them in a mortar with ^lb. fresh butter, the same of white sugar (very fine), and when you arc to send it to table, run it through a coarse wire sieve upon your cake. Miss A. Todd. Fruit Souffle. Apples or any fruit. 3 Eggs, ipt. Milk. Boil and pulp fruit and lay at bottom of pie-dish. Make a custard with yolks and milk; pour over fruit. Whip whites, spread over top and just brown in oven. Miss M. V. Palmer. Genoese Pastry. 40ZS. Flour. 40ZS. Caster Sugar. 4 Eggs. 20zs. Butter. Cream the eggs and sugar together, sift the flour, and stir it in lightly; melt the butter, pour it in slowly, and stir together as lightly as possible. Pour into a tin lined with greased paper, and bake in a moderately hot oven for 20 minutes. Miss M. Harben. *53IN AW OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 154 Ginger Cream. ipt. Cream. Yolks of 2 fresh Eggs. 40ZS. Preserved Ginger. 2 dessert-spoonfuls Syrup. foz. Gelatine soaked in ^pt. new Milk. Cut up the ginger finely in dice, warm the gelatine; add the ginger, eggs and syrup. Whip up the cream firmly. Add both together and put in a wet china mould. Chocolate or coffee flavoured creams are made in the same way. Gateau of Plums. 2lbs. Plums, stoned. ^pt. Water. Sugar to taste. ioz. Gelatine soaked in ^pt. cold Water. Mix all together; put in a cylinder mould. Serve with whipped cream in centre. Miss H. Clements. Housewife’s Cream. ^pt. Cream. £pt. White Wine. Jib. sifted Sugar. Rind and juice of 1 Lemon. Put into a large basin and whisk well till it becomes quite thick, then put into jelly glasses. This quan- tity will make 10—not very full. This cream is better made the day before it is wanted. Mrs. Rooke. Imperial Trifle. ipt. of thick Cream, ipt. of rich Custard. 30ZS. of Almonds. 1 large Sponge Cake or 10 small ones, jib. of Crystallised Fruits. 12 Macaroons, and a few Ratafias. Choose a large glass bowl, cut the sponge cakes and place raspberry jam between and arrange them in theKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 155 glass dish. Cut up one or two of the smaller fruits and scatter in with the ratafias and a few almonds. Now soak the cake well with cooking sherry and brandy. Pour the custard over; whip the cream, and spread it over the top in the form of a pyramid; decorate with the almonds shredded, and bright crystallised fruits and arrange the macaroons all round the dish. A. King. Jaune Mange. Break the yolks of 3 eggs into a tumbler, beat them well, then add to them the juice of two lemons (if not very large) and a little of the rind; sugar to taste and fill up the glass with sherry. Dissolve ioz. gelatine in a tumblerful of water, then boil it; add the eggs and wine to it, and let all thoroughly mix, but do not boil again. Strain through muslin into a mould. J. F. C. Leehe Crema. Beat up 3 eggs, leaving out 2 of the whites; add to them gradually a pint and a half of milk; then mix very carefully 4 tablespoonfuls of fine white flour and 2oz. of finely powdered sugar, and flavour with a little grated lemon peel. Boil these ingre- dients over a slow fire, stirring constantly until the flour is cooked. Prepare a shallow dish with some ratafias at the bottom, and when the crema is suffi- ciently boiled pour it through a sieve upon the rata- fias. This dish is always served cold, and just before serving some finely powdered cinnamon is dusted pretty thickly over it. This was obtained from the nuns of Santa Clara Convent at Palmas, in the island of Grand Canary. Lemon Trifle. Boil 1 pint of water with the rind of a grated lemon and sufficient sugar to sweeten. Take a tablespoon-IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 156 ful of cornflour or arrowroot, and mix with the juice of the lemon; add to it the yolks of two eggs, beaten. Pour it into the boiling water, and let it thicken. Pour it, when a little cool, over a pyramid of sponge cakes and ratafias. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth and put over the top when cold. Cream can also be added to the whites of eggs. Mrs. Smart. Lemon Cream (1). ^oz. Isinglass. 6ozs. lump Sugar, ipt. Cream. 2 Lemons. ^pt. Water. Melt the isinglass in the water, with the sugar, and the juice of the lemons; strain this through muslin into a large bowl, then add the cream and beat well with a whisk for ten minutes; it will then be ready to pour into a wet mould, and should be placed in some cool place to set. Miss Crombie. Lemon Cream (2). 5ozs. white Sugar. Rind of 2 Lemons and juice of i. 3 Eggs, well beaten. ^pt. cold Water. Stir all well together over clear fire till it thickens (not boils) and pour over four sponge cakes halved. Serve cold within twelve hours of cooking. Mrs. Tunnard. Mock lee Pudding1. Pour some boiling milk over a few finger biscuits ratafias and macaroons—and steep a few ratafias and macaroons in sherry. When they have soaked up all the wine, put them in the basin containing the finger biscuits, etc., and beat lightly together; add to thisKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 157 about foz. of gelatine which has been previously soaked and then boiled in about £pt. of water, and mix carefully; then add by degrees a spoonful or two of strawberry, raspberry, cherry, apricot, green- gage, and pineapple preserve, and a teaspoonful of each of any fruit syrups you may have, with a little vanilla essence. The preserves must be stirred in very carefully, so as to keep the fruit whole. When nearly cold pour into a wetted mould and stand in a cool place until wanted. Turn carefully out and cover with well-whipped cream that has been flavoured with vanilla and a little sugar. Original. H. C. Macaroon Cream. To i pint of cream put four or five crumbled maca- roons, the yolks of four eggs, well beaten, and a little lump sugar. Mix these well together; put on the fire in a copper pan, and stir till it is the thick- ness of a good custard. When cold pour it into the dish you intend sending it in to table; grate sugar thickly all over it, and brown it with a hot sala- mander. J. F. C. Meringues. Take ^lb. sifted sugar, 6 whites of eggs, whisk the whites until they are quite stiff, then with a spoon mix in the sugar lightly. Cut several bands of white paper, 2in. wide, and put on wood well seasoned; then put spoonfuls of the mixture, the size of an egg, a little apart, on the bands of the paper; dust the top with sifted sugar, and put the boards into a cool oven till the meringues dry and harden on the top. Then take them carefully off the board, scoop out the insides, and put back into oven to harden. Fill each half, when cool, with whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla essence; join two together and serve. Secret of a meringue is to dry, not to bake. Mrs. H. W. Price.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 158 Normandy Pippins. Take cores out and steep in water all night; then stew them gently for three or four hours with sugar, a slice of lemon peel, and a few drops of cochineal. Before stirring them, strain the water; do not put sediment in or it makes the juice thick. Nun’s Pudding*. Beat the yolks of two eggs and the white of one; mix in i^pts. of new milk gradually, add by degrees |lb. sifted sugar; mix in ijozs. of flour quite smoothly, and boil about io minutes; stir till cold t© prevent any scum rising. Pour it upon three stale sponge cakes, first divided and sprinkled with ratafias which have been soaked in white wine or new milk; cover the whole with a whip of white of egg sprinkled with “ hundreds of thousands.” A pretty and delicious dish. Mrs. Rooke. Nun’s Cream. 3 tablespoonfuls of Flour. ipt. of Milk. 3 Eggs. Sugar and Vanilla to taste. Make a smooth paste with the milk and flour, simmer for five minutes, and keep stirring all the time; add sugar and vanilla; let it boil about ten minutes or longer; allow it to cool. Switch the eggs thoroughly, and add to the paste till thoroughly mixed, then switch it together. Line a crystal dish with apricot jam and cover with the above cream; when quite cool and firm, sprinkle lightly with ground cinnamon, making it smooth over the top. Mrs. H. W. Price. Prune Souffles. One breakfastcupful of best prunes soaked in tepid water for four hours. Dry in a clean cloth, removeKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 159 stones and skin, cut into small pieces; whisk the whites of four eggs very stiff, stir in gently three dessert-spoonfuls of caster sugar, half a wineglassful of sherry, and lastly, the prunes. Put into a plain buttered mould and stand the mould in warm water half way up. Bake in a moderate oven for one hour. Turn out, and serve either hot or cold with whipped cream poured over. St. Clair Thomson. Plain Chocolate Mould. 30ZS. of Chocolate, ipt. of Milk, foz. of Gelatine. A little loaf Sugar. A little Cream. Put in a lined saucepan over the fire, the chocolate, milk and sugar; let it boil, and stir over the fire 10 minutes. Add the gelatine (which must have been previously soaked in a little water) and the cream, and pour into a mould. Mrs. Douglas Smith. Prune Meringue. Boil one pint of milk, thicken it with the beaten yolks of two eggs, add one and a half cupfuls of sugar and one cupful of prune pulp, boiled and mashed, and stir all together. Place in a glass dish, heap upon it the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, to which has been added one cupful of sugar and a few drops of vanilla. Serve very cold. Pineapple Sponge. 5 Pineapple or small tin. 1 tablespoonful Noveau. ipt. Lemon Jelly. Chop the pineapple finely; put it into the saucepan with the syrup from the tin; cook gently five minutes. Add the jelly (dissolved) and noyeau, andIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAT. OF 160 mix all well together. Let it stand a few minutes. Whisk to a stiff froth. When nearly set, pour into wet mould. When cold, turn out. Miss Clementson. Pineapple Trifle. Soak Jib. of macaroons, and Jib. of ratafias in whiskey or sherry; cut up a small tin of pineapple and mix with the biscuits. Then pour over |pt. of custard and then some whipped cream, and garnish with angelica or cherries. Mrs. Crace. Pistachio Cream. ^lb. Pistachio Nuts, i teaspoonful Brandy. Yolks of 2 Eggs, ijpts. of Cream. Sugar to taste. Blanch the pistachio nuts and pound them into a paste with the brandy, add the cream and sugar, place on the fire, and stir till it becomes thick; then pour into a glass dish, and when cold strew some pistachio nuts over the whole. Mrs. Crace. Red Plum Mould. ilb. red Plums. Jpt. Water. 2 tablespoonfuls Cornflour. Sugar. Stew the plums, with water and sugar, to a pulp; rub through sieve. Moisten the cornflour with a little water, add it to the fruit juice. Put it into a saucepan, bring to the boil; boil five minutes. Pour into a wet border mould. When cold, turn out.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 161 Fill the centre with whipped cream (or white of eggs) stiffly beaten and flavoured with sugar and almond flavouring. Miss Clementson. Rum Butter. (Used in Westmorland at christenings.) Roll out 3lbs. of the softest, brownest sugar; when free from lumps, put into a large dish, and grate over it two nutmegs and two teaspoonfuls of cinna- mon. Melt ilb. of butter in a pan, and pour it (not too hot) over the sugar, stirring very quickly. Add two wineglassfuls of rum, and when well stirred, put at once into glass dishes, so that it may run smooth before setting. Mrs. H. W. Price. Raspberry Gateau. Take a plain round sponge-cake, cut it in slices about iin. thick; about a pint of fresh raspberries or straw- berries, pass through a fine wire sieve; mix with caster sugar. Put a layer of cake and raspberry, soaking it well. Cover with whipped cream, and decorate with fruit. St. Clair Thomson. Raspberry Flummery. The white of an egg beaten stiff, and one tablespoon- ful of raspberry jam beaten into it. Sufficient for two. Mrs. PI. W. Price. Strawberry Fool. For 6 persons— i pot of Strawberry Jam. Rpts. of Milk. 1 Egg. Press either fresh fruit or strawberry jam through a hair sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. GIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 162 Simmer some milk with the yolk of an egg beaten up in it; add the rest of the milk when cooling, and stir all into the fruit. Serve cold. Mrs. H. W. Price. Snow Pudding1. Half a 6d. packet of Sheet Gelatine, ipt. Water. ^lb. grated Sugar. Whites of 2 Eggs. Juice of 2 Lemons. Whip for about 20 minutes and then put into shape. The yolks of the two eggs make a custard to put round. Miss C. Clements. Stone Cream. Take a pint of the best cream, with 12 bitter almonds blanched and pounded, then put as much lump sugar as will sweeten it, with ioz. of isinglass mixed in a little water; put all together on the fire and give it one boil, and afterwards strain it through a sieve and pour it on fruit whilst it is hot. Any fruit previously stewed, or jam, can be placed in the bottom of the dish. To be served up cold. It should be quite hard. Mrs. Tunnard. Strawberry Cream. Beat ^lb. strawberries with the whites of 2 eggs, 1 lb. caster sugar. Whisk the whole for 15 minutes. Miss M. Harben. Solid Syllabub. Put ^oz. gelatine in a pan with Jpt. of water and the rind and juice of 1 large lemon; when dissolved strain through a sieve and put to cool. Whisk ipt.k KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. of cream with 6oz. of caster sugar for about io minutes; then add the lemon mixture and beat it until it begins to set, then pour into a mould. Mrs. Langley. Yellow Flummery. To ioz. isinglass put § pint of water, and to \ pint of white wine (sherry) add rind of half lemon. Simmer the isinglass till reduced to £ pint. Take four yolks of eggs, well beaten, juice of half lemon and sugar to taste. Then put the three mixtures to- gether and strain the whole through muslin. J. F. C.Additional Recipes. IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OFKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Additional Recipes,IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 166 JELLIES. Apple Jelly. ilb. Apples, i Lemon. 30ZS. lump Sugar. ^oz. Gelatine, i teaspoonful Cochineal. Peel the apples, cut them in small pieces, put them in a stewpan with the sugar and fpt. of water. Then grate the lemon rind and squeeze the juice, into it, and let it boil until the apples are quite tender. Dissolve the gelatine in cold water by the side of the fire; when the apples are done to a pulp, pass them through a sieve, and stir in the gelatine. Rinse a mould with cold water and pour in the apple in a layer, half being coloured with cochineal; set it aside to cool. Mr. Napper. Claret Jelly (1). ipt. Claret. ^ tumbler Brandy, ioz. Gelatine. \ tumbler hot Water. 30ZS. lump Sugar. Melt the gelatine with water, add the sugar, then the brandy, lastly the claret; strain when cool into a border mould. Serve it with whipped cream and ioz. chopped sweet almonds in the centre.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 167 Claret Jelly (2). i bottle of Claret. The juice and rind of i Lemon, i teacupful of Raspberry juice, i glassful of Brandy, ijlb. loaf Sugar. Boil this for a few minutes with foz. of isinglass in cold weather, or ioz. in hot weather. To be made the day before it is to be used, and to be served with whipped vanilla cream. Mrs. Flux. Coffee Jelly with Cream. Dissolve a quarter of a packet of gelatine in cold water. Add this to two cups of strong coffee, with tablespoonfuls of sugar. Put into a mould and set in a cool place. Whip some cream and put round. Miss Bailey. Invalid Port Wine Jelly. One ounce of gelatine dissolved in i^pt. of water; then add ipt. of port wine and a little loaf sugar to taste. Mrs. Rooke. Invalid Porter Jelly. Boil x cowheel in 3qts. water slowly, till reduced to 2-|pts., take off scum very carefully and strain it. The next day, after removing all fat, add whites, yolks and shells of 2 eggs, fib. white sugar, juice of 2 lemons and rind of i|, and ipt. of porter. Boil 20 minutes and strain through jelly bag till clear. Miss Perkin.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Jelly. To Jib. of gelatine put nearly 3pts. of water, Jpt. of mixed wine (sherry and home-made), nearly lib. of moist sugar, a little brandy, the whites of 5 eggs, well beaten, and the shells, crushed, the rind of 5 lemons and the juice of 4. Boil it about quarter of an hour, pour into it a teacupful of cold water, just as you take it off the fire; let it stand near the fire to keep hot some time. The gelatine should be soaked in a little cold water about quarter of an hour; strain into moulds. Mrs. Douglas Smith. Lemon Jelly. Soak ioz. gelatine in Jot. of cold water, then add fpt. of boiling water. When cold add the grated rind and juice of 2 lemons, not quite Jib. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. Scald on the fire, but do not let it boil. Pour through a muslin bag into the mould. M. W. Milk Jelly. Milk, 3d. ioz. Gelatine. 20zs. Caster Sugar. 1 teaspoonful Vanilla Essence Melt gelatine in about half a teacupful of boiling water in a saucepan, add this .0 cold milk (in which sugar and vanilla have been already put), and strain through sieve into wet mould. 16S Miss Elderton.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 169 Orang’e Jelly. ioz. Gelatine. Jib. Sugar. ijpts. Water. Rind of 2 Lemons.. 3 Oranges. Jpt. Orange juice (a pint gives still better flavour). Soak the gelatine in the pint of water, boil the rinds in the Jot. for five minutes. Strain through muslin. When cool put in cylinder mould and serve whipped cream in centre. Prune Jelly (1). ilb. Prunes, lpt. Water, ioz. Gelatine, jib. brown Sugar. Place the gelatine to soak in a little of the water, and put the prunes, the sugar, and the rest of the wafer to cook, until the former are soft enough to rub through a sieve. When this has been done add the gelatine to the mixture and warm gently over the fire until the gelatine has melted. Pour into a wetted mould. Serve with cream. Mrs. d'Este Emery. Prune Jelly (2). Wash ilb. French plums, put them in a pan with ipt. water, an inch of lemon rind, 2 cloves. Simmer gently until tender. Soak ioz. gelatine in a teacup of cold water and then dissolve with a little boiling' water. When the plums are tender, strain through a cullender into a basin; add the gelatine, and pour it into a wetted mould. Mrs. Wood.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Sandringham Jelly. Dissolve ^oz. gelatine in a pint of milk, with |lb. loaf sugar, the peel of half a lemon; strain through a sieve on to 3 well-beaten eggs, stirring all the time; when quite cool add the juice of 2 lemons, an'd put it into well-oiled mould. Before dissolving the gelatine in hot milk first soak it for some time in water. Mrs. Fairbank. Strengthening Jelly. 20ZS. of unpicked Isinglass, ioz. Gum Arabic, ipt. good Port Wine. 40ZS. Sugar Candy or Barley Sugar. Put all in a jar and cover over. Immerse the jar in a saucepan of hot water. Keep the water boiling until the contents of the jar are all dissolved. Strain through muslin into a clean jar or mould. A piece the size of a walnut to be taken occasionally. J. F. C.171 / KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Additional Recipes.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON 173 BREAD, SCONES, Etc. Bread. i-i-lbs. of Flour. iox. of Yeast. 2 tablespoonfuls caster Sugar. 1 pt. of new Milk (warm). A pinch of salt. Bake in round cake tins for £ an hour; let it rise in a warm place before putting it into the tins. Lady Methuen. Brown Bread. 2lbs. brown Flour. i teaspoonful of brown Sugar stirred into the Flour first. i teaspoon ful of Soda. i teaspoonful of Tartaric Acid also to be stirred into the Flour. Mix with a pint of cold water. To be put into a quick oven immediately, and baked two hours. Miss A. Todd. Brown Scone. ^lb. Wheaten Meal. |lb. Flour. 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder, i teaspoonful Sugar, i teaspoonful Salt. \ teaspoon ful Carbonate of Soda. Breakfastcupful of Buttermilk or Sweet Milk with a little Vinegar. Mix dry ingredients, make into dough with milk, and fire in slow oven for three-quarters of an hour. Mrs. Bryett.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 174 Brown Bread. i teacupful of Rye meal, i teacupful of Indian meal. 1 teacupful of Molasses. 2 teacupfuls of Flour, i^pts. sour Milk. 1 teaspoonful of Soda, i teaspoonful of Salt, i Egg. Mix dry ingredients together. Dissolve the soda in 2 tablespoonfuls of boiling water; add it and the milk to the molasses. Stir well and pour on to the other mixed ingredients. Beat egg and add it. Mix thoroughly and pour into a well-buttered tin that holds 2qts. Steam 4 hours, and then put into the oven for 30 minutes. Miss Barry. Cinnamon Rolls. ilb. Bread Dough, ioz. Sugar, ioz. Butter. 1 teaspoonful powdered Cinnamon. Roll the dough iin. thick; spread the butter over, sprinkle with sugar and cinnamon. Roll, cut into slices iin. thick, place on well-greased dripping tin. Set to rise ten minutes, bake in quick oven £ hour. Miss Clementson. Dropped Scones. ^lb. Flour. 5 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. 5 teaspoonful Cream of Tartar. teaspoonful Salt, ipt. of Butter or Sweet Milk. Mix dry materials, add milk. Make into a thin batter, like pancake mixture. Grease the hot girdle with a little dripping or suet. Pour the batter in tablespoonfuls on the girdle, keeping each well separated; when slightly firm and little bubbles rise, turn quickly with a broad knife. Serve hot.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 175 French Rolls. 2lbs. Flour. 2ozs. of Butter, ipt. of Milk. ^oz. German Yeast. Put the milk into a pan with the butter in it, allow it to get warm, then mix it with the yeast and stir it into the flour. Mix exactly in the same way as for bread; put it to rise; when risen, roll out and make into small rolls and bake in a hot oven. Miss C. Clements. Ginger Buns. ioozs. Flour. 40ZS. Butter. 40ZS. Treacle. 40ZS. White Sugar, x teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 2 Eggs. Joz. ground Ginger. The butter to be rubbed into the flour, bread and eggs added last; all to be well beaten together and baked in a moderate oven. Mrs. Wood. Girdle Cakes. jib. Vienna Flour. Jib. Butter. Caster Sugar. Pinch of Salt. Peel of 1 Lemon. 1 teacupful of clear Syrup. Make a good dough of the flour and butter, add the salt, finely grated peel of lemon, and a little caster sugar. Work all well together, adding the syrup as you stir. Put the dough on a board, cut into small rounds, and place each one on a well greased gauffre or girdle iron. Bake over a clear fire on both sides, and put on a hot dish or plate. The cakes are good without the syrup. Mr. Elin.IN AID OF THE FUND FOE THE REMOVAL OF 176 Girdle Seones. 6ozs. Flour. 5 teaspoonful Baking- Powder. i teaspoonful Sugar. 20ZS. Currants. ioz. Dripping, or 20ZS. Butter. About i gill sweet Milk. Cleanse the currants, rub the dripping into the flour ' in a basin, lightly with the fingers; add the sugar, currants and baking powder; stir in as much milk as will make a stiff dough. Turn out dough on a floured board; knead lightly; roll out about half an inch thick; cut into small rounds with tumbler or tin cutter. Bake on hot girdle for about ten minutes, turning them when cooked on one side. When done, put them slanting against a plate to prevent them becoming sodden. Light Bread, Rolls or Buns. A basin that holds 2qts. three parts fill with flour, a pinch of salt, and i tablespoonful of yeast; pour over it ipt. of new milk—lukewarm. Stir it in with a wooden spoon, and leave it half an hour on the dresser in warm weather, rather nearer the fire in cold; then add 2ozs. butter, in a little flour, and knead all well together. Leave it half an hour after pouring it on the paste- board, and when it falls just roll it up again; then put it into tins, and set it in a warm closet with a basin of boiling water to cause a steam. When the bread (or rolls or buns) have risen so as quite to fill the tins (which will be in about half an hour) put them into the oven—they will be done in about io minutes. Buns require a little ground loaf sugar (about a teaspoonful) sprinkled in, and a few sultana raisins. Miss A. Hobili..KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOOTH LONDON. 177 Oat Cakes. fib. fine Oatmeal (or medium). 2 teaspoonfuls of Bacon Gravy. 7j- teacupful cold Water, i teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, i pinch of Salt. Take two good handfuls of meal, put them into a bowl with the water, soda, salt and bacon gravy (bacon gravy is the fat left on the dish or pan after frying bacon). Stir this mixture quickly with the hand; turn out cleanly on the board, on which you have ready two or three handfuls of meal. Knead more meal into the mixture till it is of proper con- sistency, but do not make it too stiff, as it will not work well. Work it between the palms of the hand to make it flat; lay it on the board and work it out, flattening it with the knuckles of the right hand, and keeping it to a round shape with the open palm of the left hand. Roll it lightly with the roller, cut it in four, rub each piece with meal on both sides. Put these pieces on the girdle, and when cooked on one side, put them on the toaster before the fire. If wanted very white, rub them with meal again, before putting them on the toaster. (Dripping may be used instead of bacon gravy, but then the water must be hot.) The cakes can be rolled out thinner and made with hot water. Potato Scones. ^lb. cold Potatoes. About 20zs. Flour. About £ g-ill sweet Milk. A pinch of salt. Mash the potatoes, add the salt, knead as much flour into them as they will take up, taking care not to allow the flour to go into lumps. Add as much milk as will form it into a stiff dough; roll out very thin on floured board; cut into rounds with tumbler or tin cutter, and prick with a fork. Bake in hot oven for about five minutes, turning when half cooked. Serve hot.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 178 Plain Tea Cakes. \ stone of flour. 1 pennyworth of German Yeast. 2 Eggs. About 20ZS. Lard or Butter. Mix the yeast with lukewarm water, and if not very good, add a teaspoonful of sugar which makes it rise. Let it stand a little time, then add the flour, and set it to rise. After about two hours, knead it and let it stand from two to three hours. Then make it up into cakes and bake for 20 minutes. When taken out of the oven, set the cakes upright, as, if laid flat, they get “ sad ” at the bottom. Miss H. Clements. Sally Lunn. ipt. of Flour. 1 Egg. 1 teacupful of Milk. A pinch of Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of sifted Sugar. Piece of Butter size of small egg. 3 teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. 1 teaspoon ful of Cream of Tartar. Put the soda and cream of tartar into the milk. Mix ail the dry ingredients together, rubbing the butter in thoroughly. Add the milk and egg and mix care- fully. Bake in shallow tins in a moderate oven for 20 minutes. A. King. Scones (1). ilb. Flour. 30ZS. Butter. 4 teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. A pinch of Salt and a little Milk. Bake on a girdle. Miss H. Clements.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 179 Scones (2). Jib. Flour. Jib. Butter. i teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Rub the butter iutQ the flour, add the baking pow- der, and mix with some cream to a stiff paste; roll out two or three times, cut into small squares and just fold across lightly, to form a three-corner; brush each over with egg, and bake from ten to fifteen minutes, according to oven. Mrs. Hawkeswortii. Scones (3). 8 tablespoonfuls Flour. J teaspoon ful Salt, i teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, ij teaspoonfuls Cream of Tartar, i breakfast-cup Buttermilk or sour Milk. Mix the salt and cream of tartar thoroughly into the flour. Dissolve the carbonate of soda in the butter- milk and mix with flour, etc. Roll out to about half an inch in thickness, and cut into small rounds. Bake on a girdle or iron plate over a hot fire about ten minutes. Miss Meredith. Small Tea Cakes. ilb. of Flour. Jib. of Butter. Rub the butter into the flour, and when it is well rubbed away, add one teaspoonful of baking powder and a little salt. Put in as much milk as will make it a nice light paste, stirring with a knife, and using the hand as little as possible. Roll it out about Jin. thick. Cut with a round cutter and bake a few minutes in a quick oven. Miss C. Clements.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF To Make Bread Easily. 2lbs. Flour. ■^oz. German Yeast. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of white Sugar. ipt. warm Water. 2 tablespoonfuls of Milk. Mix the flour, salt and sugar, and put in a warm pan before the fire. Dissolve the yeast in a small part of the water and milk, add it to the rest and stir it all into the flour. Then knead all together immediately for 20 minutes, then put the dough into warm, greased tins, dig it with a warm knife two or three times, and leave to rise, over or before the fire, from three-quarters to one hour. Bake for nearly an hour in a hot oven. Avoid draughts and use everything warm. Miss M. Perkin 1 j8oIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 182 Additional Recipes.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 183 CAKES. American Cake. ilb. white Sugar, jib. Butter. 4 teaspoon fuls Cream of Tartar. 2 teaspoonfuls of Soda. Juice and rind of i Lemon or Essence of Lemon, ijlbs. Flour. 4 Eggs, i cup of Milk. Mix the butter and sugar, add the eggs well beaten, then the flour and lemon, and lastly the milk, in which the soda and cream of Tartar should be dissolved. Miss Barry. Brompton Cake. ilb. of Flour, sib. of Sugar, sib. of Butter. Aoz. of ground Caraway. 1 teaspoonful of Soda. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Apt. of Milk. 3 Eggs. Mix well together and bake. Miss M. Harrison. Brown Cake. Alb. Flour. Alb. brown Sugar. 20ZS. mixed Peel. 1 teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda, alb. Butter. Jib. Raisins. 2 Eggs.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 184 Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs, flour, raisins, etc., then the carbonate of soda dissolved in a little milk; beat all well together and bake two hours in a moderate oven. Lady Methuen. Brown Raisin Cake. i lb. Flour. ilb. Butter or Dripping, ilb. Raisins (chopped), i teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. ^ glass Brandy. 6 Eggs. Beat the butter to a cream, add the flour, raisins, and Jib. sugar. Beat the eggs separately, adding the whiles last of all; mix the soda with a little warm water. Beat well together, and bake in a moderate oven. Be very careful or it will soon burn. Miss M. Harben. I Buttermilk Cake. 5 breakfastcupfuls of Flour, iqt. of Buttermilk. 2 cupfuls of Sugar. i tablespoonful of Butter or Dripping, i teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda. 20zs. mixed Spice. Mrs. Doxat. Mrs. Carter’s Cake. 5 teacupful of Butter. i teacupful of Flour. i teacupful of Cornflour. 1 teacupful of Sugar. 2 Eggs. i teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, add the flour and cornflour, which should be sifted ’lid scattered lightly in. Beat the yolks of the eggs to a froth and add them. Beat all well together, and add lastly, the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth,KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 185 and the baking powder. Bake in three shallow round tins. Spread with jam, or lemon cheese mixture or chocolate mixture, and put the three cakes on each .other. Ice over and ornament with glace cherries. / Mrs. Douglas Smith. Chocolate Cake (1). 2 cupful of Butter. I cupful of Milk. if cupfuls of Caster Sugar. if cupfuls of Flour. 3 Eggs. 3 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. 8 tablespoonfuls Chocolate. 3 tablespoonfuls boiling Milk. Cream the butter and add the sugar; the eggs well beaten, and the milk. Mix the baking powder with the flour, and add gradually to the mixture; dissolve the chocolate in the boiling milk and add last. Put into a tin and bake about one hour. M. W. Chocolate Cake (2). fib. Chocolate (grated). fib. Vienna Flour. fib. Butter. fib. caster Sugar (sifted). 4 Eggs. f teaspoonful Baking Powder. Beat the sugar and butter for half an hour; add the flour and chocolate gradually, and then the eggs, whicn have been previously well whipped. Bake for one and a half hours in a slow oven. Mr. Elin. Chocolate Cake (3). The following is a delicious cake:—Jib. of choco- late grated and made hot in the oven, Jib. butter, fib. sugar, 2foz. flour, three eggs, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix well, as for a pound cake, and bake in a moderate oven. Miss Baxter.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 186 Chocolate and Orange Cake. 4 Eggs. Weight of 4 Eggs in Sugar. Weight of 3 Eggs in Flour. Beat egg's and sugar for 20 minutes. Stir in flour without beating. Bake in a moderate oven for about 50 minutes. Cut into layers and put orange and chocolate mixture alternately. Orange Mixture. 1 Orange. 2 yolks of Eggs, ioz. Sugar. 1 tablespoonful Butter. Mix sugar, eggs, butter, and orange rind grated in a pan till smooth, then add lemon juice. Chocolate. 20zs. icing Sugar. 20ZS. Chocolate Powder. 2 teaspoonfuls of water. Stir over the fire till dissolved. Ice the Cake with:— 1 lb. icing Sugar. ^ the white of an Egg. 4 tablespoonfuls of Sherry. Dissolve over the fire and pour over cake. Miss V. Merriman. Clapton Rice Cake. ^lb. ground Rice. ^ lb. Flour. ^lb. Currants. 6ozs. Butter. 3 Eggs. 6ozs. Sugar. a packet of Baking Powder. ^pt. Milk. Mix well with eggs, not too stiff. The oven must not be very hot. Mr. Nappf.r.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON^ 187 Cake. Mb. Flour. 30ZS. Butter or Lard. 30ZS. granulated Sugar. Some Sultanas and a few Currants. A little Candied Peel. x small dessert-spoonful of Baking Powder. 2 Eggs. i teacupful of new Milk. Beat the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs and flour gradually, and also the milk. Put in the fruit, and just before putting the cake in the oven add baking powder. Bake in quick oven for three-quarters to one hour. Mrs. Smart. Coffee Cake (1). 3 Eggs. Alb. Caster Sugar. 30ZS. Flour. ioz. Candied Peel. Ground Cinnamon. A few drops of Vanilla Essence. 1 teaspoonful of strong Coffee. Baking Powder. Break into a basin the eggs and add the sugar, vanilla essence, a pinch of ground cinnamon, and the coffee. Whip all these together over a pan of boiling water until the mixture is quite warm, then remove the basin and continue whipping until it becomes cold and thick. Then add the finely shred candied peel, a pinch of baking powder, and the flour, dried and sifted. Have a greased baking tin ready, line it with buttered paper, dust it with sugar and flour mixed together equally; pour in the mixture and bake for about 25 minutes. Turn out and leave till cold. It may be served plain or with coffee glace.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 188 Coffee Glae^. 6ozs. Caster Sugar. 2 dessert-spoonfuls Coffee, i dessert-spoonful hot Water. Stir all together over the fire till quite smooth and warm, then pour over the cake and leave to set. Miss Macpherson. Coffee Cake (2). 2 Eggs. Their weight in Butter, Sugar and Flour. \ teaspoonful Baking Powder. Pinch of Salt. A little Milk. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, then add the eggs and other ingredients. Beat all well and bake in a slow oven. Inside layer: — 20zs. Butter. 1 dessert-spoonful Coffee Essence. Icing Sugar. Mix and spread in a layer. For outside of Cake: — 2 dessert-spoonfuls Coffee Essence. 30ZS. icing Sugar. Mix to a smooth paste and pour over the cake. Mr. Elin. Composition Cake. ilb. Flour, ilb. sugar. 3 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful Saleratus. 2 tablespoonfuls of Cream. Nutmeg to taste. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add the eggs, and cream with the Saleratus dissolved in it, then the flour and spice. This cake requires much beat- ing. Bake in a quick oven for one hour. Mrs. MacAlustf.r per Miss Monk.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONIJON. 189 Curra.nt Cake. Work 6ozs. butter to a cream; add 6ozs. fine caster sugar, then add three eggs and 90ZS. flour alter- nately. Put in one drachm of volatile salts mixed in a dessert-spoonful of milk, adding lastly Jib. cur- rants or sultana raisins, and a little candied peel. Mrs. Hawses worth. Genoa Cake. ^lb. Flour. ;jlb. Caster Sugar. 2 Eggs. J teaspoonful Baking Powder. Almonds. 40ZS. Butter. 40ZS. Sultanas. 2ozs. mixed Peel. Stir the butter and sugar together, add the eggs, and beat till the mixture becomes shiny; beat in the flour and fruit, a little at a time, and last of all put in the baking powder. Put the mixture into tins and sprinkle almonds on the top. Bake in a moderate oven. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Gingerbread. Eight tablespoonfuls of golden syrup, Jib. of moist sugar—beat together. Then add Jib. of butter and 2ozs. of lard. Beat all together. Whip two eggs, add a teacupful of milk. Mix all together. One pound of flour, 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, 3 teaspoonfuls of ginger; add these gradually to the other ingredients. Mix well. Spread thickly on a well buttered paper in a baking tin. Bake in a moderate oven about 40 minutes. Miss Heyer.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 190 Gingerbread Cake. 40ZS. Flour and Treacle. 20zs. Butter and Sugar. 2 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder, ioz. ground Ginger. First melt the butter, then stir in the treacle (or golden syrup), sugar, ginger, flour, and baking powder, then well beat the eggs and add to the rest. Bake half an hour in a quick oven. Ginger Cake (1). £ lb. Flour, fib. Sugar, ilb. Treacle, fib. Butter. 2 dessert-spoonfuls ground Ginger. 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, f teacupful Milk. 1 Egg. Rub the butter in the flour, add all the dry ingre- dients; put the treacle, egg and milk together and add to the rest. Place in a well-greased meat tin and bake in a quick oven. Do not make up the fire after the cake has risen. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Ginger Cake (2). ilb. Flour. foz. prepared Ginger, fib. brown Demerara Sugar, fib. Treacle, fib. Butter. 1 Egg. foz. Baking Powder, ioz. Candied Orange Peel. Mix baking powder, ginger and sugar well with the flour, then add treacle and butter warmed. Bake in moderate oven. This makes a large-sized cake.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 191 Ground Rice Cake. Weight of 3 Eggs in Flour and ground Rice. Weight of 3 Eggs in Sugar. 3 Eggs. Whip the eggs and sugar together for 20 minutes, then add the flour and rice. Bake in two cake tins in a medium oven. Dust over the tins with lard first, then sugar and flour mixed together in equal quantities. I weigh the ground rice, take off a handful and make up the quantity with flour, and put as much baking powder as will cover a threepenny piece in the ground rice. Lady Methuen. A Good Plain Cake. iSozs. Flour. Pinch of Salt. 6ozs. Sugar. 40ZS. Currants, qozs. Raisins. Little Peel. Some warm Milk. 4 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Mix all together and put at once into moderate oven, and bake from two to three hours. • Miss M. V. Palmer. Guest Cake. ilb. of Flour. 7ozs. of Dripping, or Butter. Jib. of brown Sugar. A little Spice and Peel. 120ZS. of Sultanas, spt. of Milk. 1 teaspoon ful of Carbonate of Soda. 3 teaspoonfuls of Vinegar. Mix all the dry ingredients, and while it is fizzing pour into centre of mixture; stir well with a fork, and put into moderate oven. Bake for two hours without opening the oven door. This cake improves with keeping. Mrs. McClintock.7.V ATD OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 192 Hermils. s teacupful of Butter. 'i teacupful of Sugar. 5 teacupful Raisins and Currants, chopped together. 2 teaspoonful Baking Soda dissolved in hot water. 2 teacupful of Milk, flavoured to taste. Mix; soft drops from a spoon on to greased tins, or bake in one cake. Little Santon Cake. ilb. Flour. ^lb. Raisins, stoned. 6ozs. Dripping or Butter. 6ozs. Sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls Vinegar. 20zs. mixed Peel. 2 teaspoonfuls Soda (dissolved in not quite Apt. ot Milk). Do not put the vinegar in the milk and soda or you will spoil the cake. Mrs. M. Bennett. Lunch Loaf. ilb. Flour. jib. Butter or Fat. £lb. Raisins. 6ozs. Sugar. Spice or Lemon Peel. i teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda dissolved in Milk. Mix and add more milk if required. Bake care- fully. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Norwich Cake. (Without Eggs.) ilb. Flour. ilb. of Currants or Sultanas. Mb. each of Butter and brown Sugar. |lb. of Candied Peel, cut in shreds. Ijoz. of mixed Spice, i dessert-spoonful of Baking Powder. Sufficient Milk to make a stiff batter (about fpt.). Warm the flour slightly, then rub in the butter with the fingers; after this add the dry ingredients, then the milk. Bake three hours. Miss Bailey.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. H 193 Northern Cake. lib. Flour. ^lb. Sultanas. 41b. Demerara Sugar. 1 teaspoonful Spice. 1 tablesponful Baking Powder. Rb. Butter or Lard, jib. mixed Peel. 1 gill Milk. ioz. chopped Almonds. Mix all the ingredients well together, and bake in a slow oven for two hours. It is better when kept. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Orange Cake (1). Sozs. Flour. 40ZS. Butter. 6ozs. Caster Sugar. 3 Eggs. Grated rind of i Oranges, and juice of i. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and orange rind; mix well; beat the eggs, add to the dry ingredients and mix thoroughly; bake in a lined cake tin about forty-five minutes. Mrs. Tunnaru. Orange Cake (2). The weight of two good-sized eggs in butter, sugar and flour. Rub butter and sugar together till like a cream; beat the eggs well with a tablespoonful of milk; add these to the other two ingredients; add the grated rind of an orange, and half the juice, then the flour and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in a quick oven half an hour. Icing for it may be made by squeezing the juice of the oranges and mixing in sufficient icing sugar to make it the con- sistency of double cream.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 194 Orang*e Cake (3). i Egg. Its weight in Flour, Sugar and Butter, i teaspoonful Baking Powder. The grated rind of i Orange. Mix and bake in a lined flat tin for to or 15 minutes. Icing1 for Cake. jib. Icing Sugar. Juice of 1 Orange. Mix and pour over the cake when cold. If double quantities of the above are used, bake the mixture in two tins. Put a layer of icing between the cakes, as well as over the top. Mrs. II. P. Cox. Paradise Cake. jib. Butter, jib. Sugar, jib. Cornflour. 4 Eggs. 1 Lemon. Clarify the butter and let it cool; beat to a cream; stir in the yolks and pounded sugar and beat well; add the grated rind and juice of the lemon and the whites of the eggs well beaten, and lastly the flour. Bake quickly in a flat tin. Miss Barry. Parkin (1). 3jlbs. line Oatmeal. 1 lb. brown Sugar. 3jlbs. Golden Syrup. 1 lb. Butter, ioz. Ginger. 1 tablespoonful Baking Powder and a little Salt. Almonds if desired. Mix all the dry ingredients together. Make the butter, sugar, and treacle hot, and then work all together, beating well. Pour into two large tins, bake in a moderate oven, and cut when half cold. This is much improved by keeping, and should be made at least a fortnight before it is required. Miss Phyllis Attenborough.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 195 Parkin (2). 4lbs. Oatmeal. 3lbs. Treacle., jib. Butter. ^lb. Sugar. \oz. Ginger. 2 teaspconfuls of Carbonate of Soda or Baking Powder. Bake in a tin about i£ inches in depth, in a rather cool oven, hotter to begin with than afterwards. It should be a rich, dark colour when done. Miss S. Pink Cake. • 2ozs. Butter. 20zs. Sugar. ioz. fine Flour. i Egg- x small teaspoonful Baking Powder. i packet Raspberry Blancmange Powder. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and some of the flour (having first mixed the pink powder and flour together), then add the eggs well beaten, the rest of the flour and the baking powder. Bake in round, shallow tins. This quantity makes four rounds. Spread raspberry jam on two of them, turn the others on to them and cut across several times. N.B.—Do not bake them till they are crisp; they should be rather soft. F. Austin. Pitcaithly Bannock. 40ZS. fresh Butter. 40ZS. salt Butter. 120ZS. Flour. 40ZS. Rice Flour. 20ZS. minced Almonds (blanched). 20zs. minced Orange Peel. 40zs. sifted Sugar. Rub all together into a smooth dough, form into a round cake at least one inch thick. Prick on the top with a fork, pinch round the edge. OrnamentIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 196 with comfits or peel, and bake a pretty brown in a moderate oven. Eat when quite cold. Mrs. Bell. Plum Cake. ilb. Flour, ilb. ground Rice, ilb. Butter, ilb. Caster Sugar, ilb. Sultanas. 30ZS. Lemon Peel. 2 Eggs. A little Sugar. Flavouring of Essence of Lemon, Almond or Vanilla. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten; add flour, sultanas, ground rice, peel, and flavouring. Bake in moderate oven. Miss Phyllis Attenborough. Plain Soda Cake. ilb. Flour. Pinch of Salt. 6ozs. Fat (Butter or Dripping). 40ZS. Sugar. 2 Eggs, ipt. Milk. 40ZS. Currants. 1 small teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Grease a tin and see to oven, and get all ingredients. Rub fat well into flour, then add sugar and cleaned currants; sprinkle in the soda. Beat eggs well, add milk and mix cake, not making it too wet. Put mixture in tin, put at once in moderate oven, and bake from two to three hours. Miss M. V. Palmer. Raspberry Cake. 30ZS. Butter. 40ZS. Caster Sugar. 6ozs. Flour. 1 teaspoonful of Paisley Flour or Baking Powder. 3 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful of Raspberry Essence. Miss FI. Clements.ICING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. A Riee Cake. Mb. ground Rice, beaten up with 4 Eggs. Mb. powdered Sugar. Stir or beat for 20 minutes. Bake in a slow oven. “ Old Mat.” A Rich Cake. 4 Eggs. Mb. Butter. Mb. sifted Sugar. 1 teaspoonful Volatile Salts. Mb. Currants. Mb. Flour. Lemon Peel. Essence of Lemon. Beat the butter to a cream, add the well beaten eggs, then the sugar, flour, and currants; beat it for 20 minutes, and add the Volatile Salts last. Bake for two hours. Raisin Cake. (Scotch Recipe.) ilb. stoned Raisins, ilb. brown Sugar. iMbs. Flour. Mb. Butter. 6 Eggs. Mix (dry) the raisins, sugar, and flour. Beat the butter (separately) to a cream. Mix into it the eggs, one at a time, continue to beat, then put in by hand- fuls the dry ingredients. Dissolve, in a medium- sized cup of milk, a small teaspoonful of soda, throw it in with the rest. Do not beat much after the soda is added, but quickly put all into a well-buttered tin. Bake in a slow oven. N.B.—Baking powder may be used instead of soda. Margaret Lee. 19 7IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 198 Sandwich Cake. x teacupful Flour, i teacupful Caster Sugar. Piece of Butter size of walnut, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, i Egg. i teacupful of Milk. A little Salt. Rub butter, sugar and flour together, then add baking powder and salt; mix with well-beaten eg'gs and milk. Bake in two small sandwich tins in moderate oven. Put jam in between. Miss Phyllis Attenborough. Scotch Shortbread. ilb. Flour. Jib. Butter, zozs. ground Rice. 20ZS. crushed loaf Sugar. Rub butter into flour, add sugar and mix well all together; roll out and bake in steady oven till slightly coloured. Miss L. Mawle. Shortbread (1). hake 2lbs. butter, soften it a little; 3lbs. flour, |lb. caster sugar, 6ozs. rice flour. Mix the dry ingre- dients well together, and work the blitter (with whole of both hands, not tips of fingers) thoroughly into them. This shortbread is lightest if pressed into an oiled and floured shortbread mould, and turned out, but may be rolled out and cut. Bake in a moderately hot oven until a pale brown. Mrs. H. W. Price. Shortbread (2). Rb. Butter. 2ozs. Caster Sugar. 6ozs. Flour. A little Salt.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 199 Work all ingredients well together, kneading with the hand. Bake in a moderate oven. Do not grease tin, nor turn out till cold. Miss Phyllis Attenborough. Shortbread (3). i lb. Butter. albs. Flour. Mb. sifted Sugar. Some sweet Almonds chopped very line. A few Carday Comfits and some Citron. Put the butter in a basin near the fire, then add the flour, sugar and almonds. When "well mixed together take portions of it and make into cakes hair-inch thick. Bake in a slow oven. Miss H. Clements. Simnel Cake. The following is a very good and original recipe: —lib. butter worked into a cream wun four eggs, ilb. moist sugar, lAlb. currants, ilb. sultanas, 2lbs. flour, 2 small teaspoonfuls of sal volatile, one of grated ginger, 2 of mixed spice, t of ground cinna- mon, 2ozs. candied lemon, 2ozs. citron cut up. Mix all together and roll it out about an inch thick; bake it a moderate oven about half-an-hour, or more. Put sugar and sweetmeats on the top. Miss Baxter. Sister. iAlb. Flour. iib. Butter. 0 Eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of thick Yeast, and as much warm Milk and Water as will make a stiff batter. Then it is to be beaten till the spoon comes clean from the cake. Place it a short distance from the fire for one hour. Then mix Alb. of dried sweet- meats and cinnamon to taste. To be put in the oven immediately, and when baked 2lbs. of clarified sugar to be poured over it. Mrs. Wilkinson.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 200 Soda Bunloaf Cake. 1 lb. Flour. Mb. moist Sugar, sib. Raisins, sib. Currants. |lb. Butter. 2 Eggs beaten in £pt. New Milk, i teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Warm the milk and put the soda into about a tablespoonful of it, and beat it till quite smooth; then add the rest of the milk. Eggs may be left out. Bake in a very slow oven about two hours. Any milk may be used. Miss Macpiierson. Soft Gingerbread. i cupful of Butter. 1 cupful of Molasses, i cupful of Sugar, i teaspoonful of sour or Buttermilk, i teaspoonful of Soda dissolved in boiling water, i tablespoonful of Ginger. 1 teaspoonful of Cinnamon. 2 Eggs. About 5 cupfuls of Flour. Stir butter, sugar, molasses and spice to a cream; set on range until slightly warm. Add milk, then eggs lightly beaten, soda, and, lastly, flour. Beat ten minutes. Raisins and peel improve this cake. Mrs. Sharp. Soda Cake (1). Mb. Butter or Beef Suet. 5 ozs. moist Sugar. 3 Eggs. Jpt. Milk, ilb. Flour. ^ a Nutmee; grated. i teaspoonful of Carbonate of Soda (sprinkled in the flour). Mb. Sultanas, and a little Mixed Peel.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 201 Be sure to mix it as follows:—Mix the butter and sugar together, then add the eggs well beaten, afterwards the milk (warmed), then the sultanas and peel. Then slowly add the flour, sprinkling in about a tablespoonful at a time. Bake in one tin. Mrs. Tunnard. Soda Cake (2). 1 lb. Flour. Mb. Sugar. Bb. Peel. Mb. Butter. 2 Eggs. I glass Milk. 1 teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda. Mb. Currants. put in two cake tins. Bake about one Mrs. H. P. Cox. Soda Cake (3). ilb. Flour. Mb. brown Sugar. 40ZS. Dripping or Butter. 2 teaspoonfuls of Mixed Spice. 2 teaspoonfuls Carbonate of Soda, ilb. Currants. About ipt. of Milk. Mix dry ingredients, rub in butter, add currants, then milk, with carbonate of soda mixed in it. Bake two hours in a moderate oven. Mrs. H. W. Price. Scotch Gingerbread Cake. Mb. Flour. Mb. Syrup. Mb. Butter. Mb. Sugar. Mb. large chopped Raisins. M>z. ground Coriander Seed. Joz. ground Caraway Seed. ioz. Mixed Peel. 2 Eggs. 1 teaspoonful ground Ginger and a heaped-up tea- spoonful baking Soda. Milk to mix. Mix and hour.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 202 Bake in a moderate oven for quite an hour. Line the tin with buttered paper and cover the top of cake with same before putting in the oven. Fill the tin till a little more than half full. Spiee Cake. fib. moist Sugar. ^lb. Butter or Dripping, ilb. ioozs. Flour, ilb. Currants or Sultanas, ilb. Peel. 3 teacupfuls Milk and Water. 2 teaspoonfuls Carbonate of Soda. 1 teaspoonful Tartaric Acid. 2 large Teaspoonfuls Spice. Cream the butter and sugar together, stir in the hot milk and water, to which has been added the soda and tartaric acid; then add the flour, spice, and fruit. Bake in a good oven for about two hours. Miss M. Harben. Sponge Cake (1). Eight eggs, their weight in pounded sugar, half their weight in sifted flour, a little grated lemon peel (if liked). Beat the yolks till quite light, and the whites to a stiff froth. Mix the sugar with the yolks, then add the whites, and lastly the flour, which must be stirred in gently, one way. Have ready a warm buttered cake tin, put it at once into a moderate oven. Do not open the oven door for half an hour; the cake will take about half an hour. Mrs. Dougi.as Smith. Sponge Cake (2). 6 or 7 Eggs (keep out whites of 3). | teacupful Water. 1 dessert-spoonful of Essence of Lemon, fib. Caster Sugar. ^lb. Flour. Put eggs in a basin and beat for five minutes. PutKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 203 water, sugar, and essence of lemon in saucepan and bring to the boil, then pour into basin with the eggs, and whisk for twenty minutes. Add flour by degrees, and very lightly with a spoon, and stir well. Butter and sugar two cake tins and bake for one hour or more. Miss Eldekton. Sponge Cake (3). 4 Eggs. 2 cupfuls Flour. 2 cupfuls Sugar. i teaspoonful Baking Powder. h cupful Water. Lemon Flavouring. Beat up the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together, add the water; mix the baking powder with the flour, and add gradually, last of all, the whites of the eggs beaten stiff. Put into a tin with greased paper, and bake for about one hour in a moderate oven. M. W. Sultana Cake. jib. of Flour, ilb. of Butter. ilb. of Sultanas and Lemon Peel mixed. 3 Eggs. -Jib of fine Caster Sugar. A little Salt. 2 teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. Cream the butter and sugar; put in the flour slowly, and then the eggs (beaten well), a little at a time; add the fruit and peel, and the powder last. Bake two hours in a rather slow oven. Swiss Sandwich. The weight of three eggs in flour, and sugar, the weight of two in butter, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Beat sugar and butter to a cream; add the eggs separately, flour and baking powder last. Mrs. Terry. %IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 204 Swiss Roll. i teacupful of Flour, i teacupful of fine Sugar. 1 tablespoonful Baking Powder. 2 Eggs. Beat the egg's, mix in the flour, sugar and baking powder; pour into a buttered meat tin, turn out quickly when baked on to a sugared serviette. Spread with jam and roll quickly. Mrs. H. P. Cox. Tenby Cake. •5lb. Flour. Mb. Raisins. 20ZS. Butter. Jib. Sugar (brown). J pint Milk. J teaspoonful of Soda. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the raisins and then the flour, with the soda in it; lastly, pour in the milk, stirring all the time. Pour into a greased tin and bake in a moderate oven for about one and a half to two hours. Miss Clark. Thick Gingerbread. ijlbs. Flour. 1 lb. Treacle (warmed). Jib. brown Sugar. Jib. Butter. ioz. ground Ginger. ioz. Candied Peel. 1 good teaspoonful Carbonate of Soda, dissolved in a little lukewarm Milk. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, ginger and peel, then add the treacle, and, last of all, the soda, mixed with enough lukewarm milk to make the mixture into a rather stiff paste. Bake in a York- shire pudding tin lined with paper, and when partly baked glaze with the following:—Dissolve 1 dessert- spoonful of sugar in 2 of milk, and brush over the cake. Mrs, Tunnard.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 205 Venetian Cake. ilb. foreign Flour. |lb. Butter. 1 tablespoonful Baking Powder. A little Milk. 30ZS. Sugar. 2 Eggs. Mix all together and bake in two flat tins. Mr. Ei.in. Vinegar Cake. 1 ilb. Flour. ilb. Lard or Butter. ilb. Sugar. ilb. Currants and Candied Peel. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1 leaspoonTul Carbonate of Soda dissolved in i pint or rather more of milk. Mix the dry ingredients, then add the soda and milk, and one tablespoonful of vinegar. Bake at once. Miss Emma Durham. White Grantham Gingerbread. 3lbs. Flour. 3lbs. Sugar. 17OZS. Butter, iiozs. Ginger, ioz. Essence of Lemon. ioz. Volatile Salts dissolved in a cup of Milk. J. F. C. Walnut Cake. ilb. Butter, ilb. Caster Sugar, ilb. Flour. 1 teaspoon ful of Flavouring, ilb. chopped Walnuts. 4 Eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and then the flour mixed with the baking powder. Mix wellIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 206 and add the walnuts, flavouring, and the eggs well beaten; bake in a quick oven; when cold, cover with icing, and ornament with a few half walnuts. The skins of the walnuts should be removed before they are chopped. Yorkshire Cake. Weight of 2 Eggs in Flour, Sugar, and Butter. Weight of i Egg in ground Rice. A little Flavouring or Rind, i teaspoonful Baking Powder, i pinch of Salt. Beat the butter and sugar together. Add the bak- ing powder to the ground rice and flour. Beat the eggs, add them to the butter and sugar, then add the flour, etc. Well grease two plates with lard, pour on the mixture and bake for a quarter of an hour. Take the cakes off the plates, spread one with jam, and put the other on it. When cold sprinkle with caster sugar. F. Brabazon.Additional Recipes. KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON.Additional Recipes. IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OFKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 209 SMALL CAKES AND BISCUITS Aele Cakes. ;}Ib. Flour. gib. brown Sugar. 20zs. Butter, i Egg. Small teaspoonful ground Ginger. 3 teaspoonful of Bicarbonate of Soda. Mix all together. Nip off pieces the size of a walnut and bake in a ciuick oven. Miss M. Perkin. Bachelor’s Buttons. Rub 2ozs. of butter into 5ozs. flour and 50ZS. white sugar. Beat one egg and put it to the other in- gredients, add almond flavouring, according to taste. Roll them in the hand about the size of a large nut, sprinkle them with sugar, and place on tins with buttered paper. They should be lightly baked. Mrs. Flux. Baby Cakes. 4 Eggs. Their weight in Sugar and Flour. Nut of Volatile Salts. Beat the yolks and the whites of the eggs separately. With a spoon stir into the yolks a little sugar, then a little flour, then a little white of egg, until all is mixed together. Dissolve the nut of volatile salts in water, and stir it into the mixture. Drop it on tins and bake in a slow oven, till the cakes take a light fawn colour; they ought to eat crisp, and not close. Mrs. Bridgwater.IN AID Ob THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 210 Chocolate Cakes. The weight of 2 Eggs in Caster Sugar. The weight of 2 Eggs in Fresh Butter. The weight of 2 Eggs in Chocolate Powder. The weight of x Egg in Flour and Potato Flour. 3 teaspoonful of Vanilla Essence. 3 Eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. Melt the butter and mix with the sugar; add the eggs, well-beaten (yolks and whites separately), then add the chocolate powder and the flour (into which the baking powder has been sifted), and then the vanilla. Cook in greased patty pans, half filled with the mixture, in a fairly quick oven. (They burn easily.) Mrs. Silk. Cream Cakes. Put a puff paste in your patty pans, in which place the preserve ; then take the weight of an egg in the shell in flour, butter and sifted loaf sugar, and also the egg, white and yolk. Mix together, lay them over the preserves, and bake in the oven. Mrs. Tunnard. Citrons. 1 lb. Flour. |lb. Butter, ilb. Caster Sugar. Yolks of 6 Eggs. |lb. Citron. Essence of Lemon. Warm the butter and beat to a cream; add the flour by degrees, then the sugar and citron cut into dice; moisten with the well-beaten yolks of eggs, to widen has been added a few drops of essence of lemon. Put little heaps of the mixture in small patty pans, and bake in a moderate oven from 15 to 20 minutes. Miss M. IIarben.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 211 Cocoanut Buns. Mix— 2 breakfastcupfuls of Flour, f breakfastcupful of Sugar. ’i breakfastcupful of Butter and Lard mixed. 2 tablespoonfuls of Milk. 2 teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 2 teaspoon ful of Salt. 3 Eggs. Mb. desiccated Cocoanut. Butter oven tins and bake about ten minutes. Mrs. Sharp. Cornflour Buns. jib. Cornflour. Mb. Flour. Mb. Butter. Mb. caster Sugar. 2 Eggs. i teaspoonful Baking Powder. A little Salt and flavouring. Beat the butter to a cream with the sugar, add the well-beaten eggs; then strew in the two flours and other ingredients. Bake in a moderate oven. If desired tne mixture can be used as a cake instead oi buns. Miss Phyllis Attenborough. . Easter Cakes. Mbs. Flour. 2lbs. Butter. 2lbs. sifted Sugar. 8 yolks and 4 whites of Eggs. 1 teaspoon ful of Sal Volatile. Cinnamon to taste. Mix 1 lb. of the butter with the flour, sugar and spice; melt the other ilb. butter, and mix it with the beaten up eggs, then mix all well together; roll it out thin, cut it into shapes you like, and bake in the oven. Miss Baxter.INLAID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL O17 212 Indian Griddle Cakes. i cupful of Indian Meal. 1 cupful of Flour. 3 cupfuls of boiling Milk. 2 Eggs. i teaspoonful of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 2 tablespoonfuls of Sugar. Boil the milk, and gradually pour it on the meal. Put the other dry ingredients with the flour, and i ub through a sieve. When the scalded meal is cool, add to it the flour, and the eggs well beaten and fry. Mrs. Doxat. Jean Balls. ioozs. of powdered loaf Sugar, ioozs. of Flour. 40ZS. of Butter. A little grated Lemon Peel. Rub the butter into the flour and sugar, leaving a little sugar to roll them in. Mix with 2 eggs and bake. Mrs. Beale. Jumbles. 2ozs. Treacle or Golden Syrup. 20zs. Butter. 20ZS. brown Sugar. 20ZS. Flour. A little Salt. Warm the treacle, butter and sugar together, then pour on to the flour and salt; drop in little heaps on a large baking sheet; bake till brown, and then, while cooling, roll them round rolling pin. These can also be rolled in the shape of horns, and filled with whipped cream. Miss Phyllis Attenborough.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 213 Kisses. 2 Eggs. Their weight in fresh Butter, Sugar, Flour, and Corn- flour. i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Beat the sugar and butter to a cream, beat up the eggs and add to this and beat again; then add the flour (in which the baking powder has been pre- viously mixed), then the cornflour. With a teaspoon put small round lumps, about the size of a two- shilling piece, on to a well-greased tin, leaving a good distance between each. When cooked a light brown, take them off the.tin with a knife; spread one with raspberry jam, and then stick another cake to it. Do this with all the cakes, they will adhere to each other with the jam. A quick oven is re- quired to bake them. Mrs. Silk. Lady Abbess Cakes. Pound 30ZS. of almonds, Jib. of butter, 2ozs. of loaf sugar with a little rose water, till it becomes a thick paste. Spread it on a buttered tin, divide it into eight cakes, bake in a slow oven. When cold put a spoonful of preserve on each cake and cover with whipped cream. Miss Baxter. Petit Fours. iflbs. ground Almonds. 2jlbs. Sugar. 16 whites of Eggs. 40ZS. Cornflour. Vanilla to flavour. Mix all the dry ingredients together with the whites of eggs. Miss M. Harben.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 214 Potato Cakes. Take 2lbs. of mealy potatoes, mash them very fine with a little salt, mix them with 2lbs. of flour, add milk enough to make this into dough. Divide it into cakes the size of muffins and bake them. These cakes may be opened and buttered hot. Mrs. Colegrave. Raspberry Buns. 6ozs. ground Rice. 6ozs. Flour. ^lb. Butter. -jib. Sugar. i teaspoonful Baking Powder. Make into a stiff paste with the yolk of an egg, and a little milk. Divide into small balls; hollow each and insert a little raspberry jam; close up nearly, dip into white of egg, flatten a little, and bake in a sharp oven. Mrs. Sharp. Rout Cakes. ilb. of loaf Sugar, ilb. of Flour. 6ozs. of Butter. 3 Eggs. 30ZS. of sweet Almonds. 30ZS. of bitter Almonds blanched and pounded. Mix all together. Miss A. Foster. Small Riee Cakes. gib. Flour, gib. ground Rice, gib. white Sugar, gib. Butter. 2 Eggs. Flavouring of Lemon or Almond. 1 teaspoonful Baking Powder. Beat butter and sugar together, then add the eggsKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 215 well beaten, and flavouring. Mix the baking powder with the flour and rice, and stir into the mixture lightly. Drop on a tin and bake quickly. Miss Meredith. Sand Cakes. ilb. Flour, jib. Cornflour. } 1 b. Butter, jib. Caster Sugar. 5 skin Orange or Lemon Peel. 4 an Egg. Grate the peel, rub the butter into the flour, and add all the other dry ingredients, mixing to a stiff paste with the egg. Knead well till quite smooth, roll out very thin, cut into round cakes, sift a little sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven till yellow. Mrs. Heynes. Shrewsbury Cakes. -Mb. fresh Butter (melted, but not oiled), alb. Sugar, pounded and sifted. 1 Egg- Beat all together, add 14 ozs. flour and a few caraway seeds. To be rolled out in white sugar. F. Brabazov. Seed Rocks. Rub £lb. butter, ilb. flour, and £lb. moist sugar well together (the flour should be dried), mix in two well beaten eggs, 2\ teaspoonfuls of caraway seeds. Drop them upon a baking tin and bake for half an hour in a rather quick oven. Miss M. Harben.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 216 Spitzbuben. 1 hese are small German biscuits. Take fib. of floui, fib. butter, fib. sugar, the yolk of an egg, and some lemon peel; mix this into a paste, and when rolled, stamp it out into shapes as desired. Bake in the oven, and when cooked, spread with jam or marmalade. Suet Cakes. ilb. Flour, ilb. Beef Suet. i teaspoon fill Baking Powder. 3 teaspoonful of Pepper. A teaspoonful of Salt. Roll out f in. thick, and cut into cakes and bake. Mr. Napper. Spong’e Cakes. 30ZS. Butter. 30ZS. Sugar. 30ZS. Flour. 30ZS. Cornflour. 2 Eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls Baking Powder. Vanilla Essence. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, sift in flour, add yolks, stir well, add whites, and lastly baking powder. Bake in quick oven about -10 minutes or less, in buttered tins, floured slightly. Mrs. H. W. Price.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 217 Zoete Krakeling- (An old Dutch recipe.) i lb. Flour, lib. Sligar. Alb. Butter. 3 Eggs. i teaspoonful Cinnamon, i teaspoonful Potash. Mix together. Roll out and make into figure of eight shapes and bake for 20 minutes. Mrs. McD. Troup. American Biscuits. ilb. of Flour. A small pinch of Salt. 1 teaspoonful of Carbonate o' Soda. 2 teaspoon fuls of Cream of l artar. A piece of Lard the size of r 1 egg. Mix well with sour milk to a stiif paste, drop it in tablespoonfuls on to a well-greased tin and bake at once in a hot oven. C. Perkin. Brown Biscuits. Brown Flour. 1 cupful of Butter. 2 cupfuls of Sugar. A cupful of Milk. 1 teaspoonful of Bicarbonate of Soda. 1 tablespoonful of Water. Mix the butter, sugar, milk and .bicarbonate of soda dissolved in the water. Stir in enough flour to make a stiff paste, roll out, and*cut in shapes; bake on oven shelf till crisp (about 15 minutes). M. W.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Miss A. Mobile. 218 Charcoal Biscuits. gib. Caster Sugar, gib. Flour, sib. Arrowroot. 2 teaspoonfuls of Charcoal. 50ZS. Butter. 20zs. ground Ginger, ioz. Baking Powder. Mix the dry ingredients together thoroughly; rub in the butter and sufficient water to oind; roll out thin; bake in a moderate oven, watching them carefully that they do not burn. This quantity should make about 70 biscuits. Mrs. Shipton. Ginger Biscuits. gib. Flour. gib. Butter, Lard, or Dripping. :flb. Sugar. 2 heaped teaspoonfuls Ginger. 1 teaspoonful of Bicarbonate of Soda. Golden Syrup to mix. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, ginger, and soda; mix to a stiff dough with the syrup; roll and cut into biscuits £ in. thick. Bake in a moderate oven about 10 minutes; room must be allowed for the biscuits to spread. Miss Heygate. Little Biscuits. Take Mb. flour, rub into it 30ZS. butter, and a little pounded sugar, and a few caraway seeds. Mix it into a light, smooth paste, with a little good milk or thin cream. Roll it out very thin, and prick it well. Cut it into small round biscuits, and bake them in a moderate oven.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 219 Wafer Biscuits. Rub a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a handful of fine flour. Make it into a stiff, smooth paste, with warm milk, and the white of an egg beaten to a stiff froth. Beat the paste with a rolling pin for at least half an hour (the goodness of the biscuits depends on the length of time they are beaten). Take small pieces and roll them out to the size of a saucer. They must be so thin that they can be seen through when held to the light. Bake .them very lightly. Miss A. Hobill. Wine Biscuits. Mb. Butter. Mb. Sugar, ilb. Flour. 2 whole Eggs, or 4 yolks. Vanilla. Cream the butter and sugar, add eggs and flavour- ing; stir in flour. Mixture may be rolled thin and cut in shapes, or piped on to greased tins. The mix- ture may be coloured. Miss M. Harben. Water Biscuits fop Dessert. ^oz. Butter, ilb. Flour. Salt. Rub the butter into the flour, with a pinch of salt; moisten with cold water, and beat in a mortar for some time. Roll out as thin as possible, and cut out into small biscuits; prick each slightly in the centre. Bake in a quick oven, but take care they don’t burn. They will keep crisp a long time in a tin box.IN AW OF TIIE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Additional Recipes. 22 0KING’S COLLEGE HOSE IT AI. TO SOUTH LONDON. 221 3 ' Additional Recipes. . *IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 222 PRESERVES. Apple Preserve. Make a syrup of 4lbs. of loaf sugar and i^pts. water; boil it for quarter hour. Then add 61bs. apples, peeled and cored; boil for half hour, stirring well all the time. A little grated lemon peel is an improvement, if liked. Miss A. Hobill. Orange Marmalade (1). Weigh the oranges and take their weight of sugar. Squeeze the juice on the sugar through a strainer; lay the cups into strong salt and water for 24 hours. Boil them gently, to take out the bitterness, four times, 20 minutes each time, and put into fresh cold water each time. Put them upside* down to drain. When cold enough squeeze what water remains opt of them very gently, cut them in extremely thin slices or pound them very fine; put them to the juice and sugar and let them boil until the juice begins to jelly. Mrs. Playfair. Orange Marmalade (2). Twelve Seville oranges; cut the oranges in quarters, take out the pips, slice the oranges and pour over them 6qts. of spring water. Let them stand for T2 hours. Put over the fire and boil for two hours slowly or until tender, then add 81bs. of loaf sugar; boil again for one and a-half hours or until it jellies; when done add the juice of 2 lemons. Put the pips into a muslin bag and let them soak with the fruit. Mrs. Tunnard.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 223 Orange Marmalade (3). Cut Seville oranges in halves and slice them very fine, taking out the pips only. To each pound of fruit add 3'pts. of cold water; let this stand for 24 hours, then boil till tender. Let it stand again for 24 hours and then weigh it, and to every pound of boiled fruit add ijjlbs. of sugar. Boil the whole for an hour or more (until the syrup jellies when dropped on a plate) and stir all the time after the sugar is added. Miss M. Perkin. Preserved Pears. Peel and quarter the pears, taking out the cores, then take equal weight of sugar to fruit, and to every 3lbs. of pears add ipt. of spring water; add cloves or sliced lemon, whichever is preferred (lemon is nicest). Put all in a large stewpan and put the skins which have been peeled off the pears on the top of the fruit, then cover closely and let them stew g'ently for five or six hours. You must be guided by the colour of the fruit; a little cochineal tied up in muslin improves the colour. The syrup will require boiling over again at the end of ro days. Pears when stewed according to this recipe will keep two years. Recipe 150 years old. Mrs. Tunnard. Raspberry Preserve. Equal quantities of raspberries and white sugar. Warm the sugar, squeeze the raspberries, or crush them thoroughly with a silver fork. Boil the fruit (done for seven minutes, then add the sugar, and just boil it up. F. Austin.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 224 Miss L. Mawle. Rhubarb and Orange Jam. Peel six sweet oranges. Remove as much of the white pith as possible. Divide them and take out the pips. Slice the pulp into a preserving pan. Add the rinds of half the oranges cut into thin strips, i^-lbs. loaf sugar broken small. Peel the rhubarb (iqt. cut finely), cut it into thin pieces, add it to the oranges, and stir all together over a gentle fire until the jam is done. Remove all the scum as it rises. Pot and cover down in the usual way. N.B.—Should the rhubarb be very old, cook it alone for quarter hour before adding to the other ingredients. Mrs. Bell. Rhubarb Jam (1). 61bs. Rhubarb. 61bs. lump Sugar. 6ozs. candied Lemon Peel. Chop up the rhubarb as for a tart and let the sugar remain in a large pan with it for 24 hours so that it may be dissolved. Then cut up the candied peel very small and boil all together for rather more than an hour. If the lemon peel is not liked ground ginger is a very nice flavouring; use ioz. to 61bs. rhubarb. July is the best month to make this jam. Miss Elderton. Rhubarb Jam (2). 61bs. Rhubarb. 5lbs. Sugar. 20ZS. bitter Almonds. 20ZS. ground Ginger (or less, according to taste). Rind and juice of 3 Lemons. Chop rind of lemons and almonds fine and boil all well.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 225 I “Shaddock” or “Grape-Fruit” Marmalade. To every pound of shaddock (or grape-fruit) (or Seville oranges) allow 3pts. of cold water. Peel the fruit and shred the rind very thin. Take away all the pips and skin from the oranges and put them into a basin and half the water to them, the re- mainder of the water to the rind and pulp in another basin and let all stand 24 hours. Then strain the water from the seeds and skin and add it to the water containing the rind, and boil all together until the rind is quite tender. Let it stand until next day, then to every pound of fruit and water add i^lbs. of lump sugar and boil until it jellies well. E. T. Strawberries Preserved Whole. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and grated loaf sugar. Take a large bowl, put the fruit and sugar into it in alternate layers, keeping as much sugar as will cover the fruit entirely on the top. Let it stand about 20 hours. Then put it into a preserving pan, and after it comes to boil (it.should boil 20 or 30 minutes according to the state of the fruit), then put it into jars. In making this quantity of jam there should not be more than 81bs. or 9lbs. of fruit done at a time so as to keep the strawberries whole. Miss H. Clements. Tomato Jam. 3lbs. green Tomatoes. 2lbs. Sugar. 1 Lemon (juice and rind). A little Water. Boil gently till it is well done, clear, and the syrup thick. Mrs. Hawkesworti-i.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 226 To Preserve Currants for Bottling1. To 9lbs. of fruit add 5lbs. of loaf sugar. Set it to boil for io minutes, pour into an earthenware jar and when quite cold put into wide-necked bottles and cover them with oil or mutton suet melted. Set the bottles in a cool place and when the suet is quite cold tie down with paper. Miss M. Perkin. To Bottle Fruit (1). To every pound of fruit put 6ozs. of sugar. Place them in a pan over the fire and boil six minutes; put into bottles previously held over sulphur; paste down with paper immediately. The bottles should be hot when the fruit is put into them. Done in this way the fruit will keep for 12 months. Mr. Napper. To Bottle Fruit (2). Fill the bottles with fruit and set them on the fire in a saucepan, or fish kettle, of cold water, till the temperature of the water rises to 1300; keep it at that for 30 minutes. Then fill up the bottles with boiling water, covering the top with salad oil, and tie down immediately with bladder. Miss Ei.derton. To Bottle Fruit (3). Boil Joz. salicylic acid in 4pts. of water till it is dissolved—should there be any waste in the boiling make the quantity up to qpts. again, and then dis- solve Jib. of white sugar in it. Pour over the fruit in the bottles and tie down when cold. Miss Sumner.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 227 To Preserve Pears or other Fruit. Make a syrup of i lb. sugar to ipt. water, boil 20 minutes; then to each pound of sugar add 2lbs. of pears, pared and cut in halves and cored. Boil in the syrup till tender, put into bottles and skin over while hot. Mr. Napper. To Bottle Green Gooseberries. Make the bottles hot and dry in the oven, then fill with picked fruit, not too full. Pour boiling water over, covering the berries to the top of the bottle. Cork down as soon as possible, and keep in a cool, dry place. Any other fruit can be done in the same way. Miss Macpherson. Vegetable Marrow Jam. 3lbs. Marrow. 3lbs. Sugar. 20zs. lump Ginger, bruised. 2 Lemons. 12 Cayenne Pods. Soak the marrow for 12 hours, pour off the water, put 2lbs. sugar over and leave 12 hours. Add tlb. sugar, ginger, cayenne pods and lemon juice, and boil all together until the syrup thickens (i^ to 2 hours). Put in jars and cover. M. W. Crab Apple Jelly. 61bs. Crab-apples (wash and remove stalks only)- 3qts. Water. Put in a stew-jar or pan with the lid on and let them *,stew slowly for 4 hours, then pour all through a jelly bag and let the syrup run through without bruising. Then to each pint of syrup add xlb. sugar (cane). Boil for 20 minutes and put in jars and tie down. Apples can be done in same way. “ Dallawoodie. ”IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 228 Green Gooseberry Jelly. Cover the gooseberries with water and boil till quite soft, then strain. To each pint of juice use i^lbs. of sugar and boil till it will jelly. Mrs. Hawkesworth. Gooseberry Jelly. £ stone green Gooseberries. 2qts. Water. Boil all together to a pulp, tie in a coarse cloth, and let it drip into a basin all night. Add ilb. sugar to each pint of juice, boil gently for three-quarters of an hour, and pour into pots to set. Miss Macpherson. Medlar Jelly. Take medlars when quite ripe, wash them well and put into a preserving pan with as much water as will cover them. Let them simmer slowly till they become quite a pulp. Strain the pulp through a jelly bag, and to every pint of liquor add fib. of white sugar. Boil it an hour or more if required; great care must be taken in the boiling that it may turn out the colour and consistency of guava jelly. A little lemon juice improves it. Mrs. Tunnard. Plum Jelly. ilb. Plums, ipt. Water. Boil till quite soft, press the juice through a muslin cloth; break some of the kernels in a mortar. To a pint of juice add ilb. sugar. Boil io minutes, or 12 if a large quantity.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Additional Recipes. 22gIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 230 Additional Recipes.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 231 CHUTNEYS AND PICKLES. Apricot Chutney. 20zs. Chillies. 20zs. Garlic. 20zs. Ginger. 20ZS. Mustard Seed. 2ozs. Salt. 2lbs. ripe Apricots or Apricot pulp, ilb. Malaga Raisins. 2lbs. brown Sugar. 2qts. Vinegar. The four first ingredients to be pounded with vine- gar. Boil the fruit with iqt. of vinegar (if using apri- cots cut them in slices). Boil the sugar in the other quart of vinegar until it boils clear. Mix all the ingredients with the fruit; lastly the sugar boiled in vinegar. Mix all and boil to a proper consistency. Stone the raisins and have full quantities of every- thing. Chutney (1). ^lb. Tomatoes, ilb. Apples. 20zs. Carrots, ioz. Garlic, ilb. Raisins. 20zs. Brown Sugar, i Lemon. i tablespoonful Vinegar i teaspoonful Salt. Chop and mix altogether and put into a jar and cover. Stand jar in warm place for three weeks stirring every day. Fill small jars and cover lightly. Miss M. V. Palmer.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 232 Chutney (2). i^lbs. Marrow, i^lbs. Tomatoes, fib. Apples. ^lb. Onions. ^lb. Sugar. 5pt. Vinegar, ioz. Whole Ginger. Peel marrow, cut in pieces. Sprinkle with salt, 12 hours drain, and boil all together in the vinegar until tender. Add cayenne pepper to taste or any other spice if liked. Chutney (3). 40ZS. Salt. 40ZS. Mustard Seed. ^oz. best Cayenne Pepper. 20zs. Garlic, crushed and peeled, ilb. best stoned and chopped Raisins. 4lbs. Apples, peeled and cored. 8ozs. brown Sugar. 20zs. ground Ginger. ^oz. Allspice, iqt. Vinegar Add all the ingredients (chopped) to the vinegar and boil for about two hours or until it becomes the consistency of jam. Put it into jars and lie down. A little boiled vinegar may be added if it is too thick when opened. Half this quantity will make several small pots. Mrs. Sii.k. Damson Pickles. 3lbs. Damsons. 2lbs. Sugar, ipt. Vinegar. 2 blades Mace. 6 Cloves. Take damsons (not too ripe). Boil vinegar, sugar, mace, and cloves five minutes. Pour over the fruit whilst hot. Allow to stand one day. Strain; boilKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 233 syrup again; pour over fruit. Stand until next day. Boil fruit and syrup gently for three minutes, taking care to keep damsons whole. When cool, cover closely. Miss Clementson. Green Chutney. i small Onion, cut in tiny pieces. 3 green Chillies, from which the seeds have been removed. i teaspoonful Ginger. A little powdered Cocoanut. Some finely-chopped Parsley. Pound all well together and moisten, if necessary, . with a little oil. Lady Ollivant. Indian Dry Fruit Pickle. Take equal quantities of dry dates, Arabian dried apricots, dry English prunes, and dry Normandy pippins. Wash and clean these thoroughly, then dry well in the sun. Stew the dates for 15 minutes, then cut up in rings and reject the stones. Make a syrup of good French vinegar in the proportion of rjlb. of good clean cooking sugar to a quart of French vinegar. After quartering the pippins, arrange them with the other fruit in a wide-mouthed bottle in alternate layers with finely-sliced ginger, peppercorns, sticks of cinnamon, and small sprink- lings of salt; then pour over the whole as much of the vinegar syrup as will entirely cover the fruit. Cork the bottle well down, expose it in a strong sun for a few days; leave to stand for a month, after which time it should be ready for use. Mrs. Macnamara.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 234 Indian Piekle. Pick some cauliflowers and other vegetables in pieces, strew over them some salt. Drain the liquor (after standing a little) that may come from them, after which put about a quart of vinegar on the fire and when it boils put in as many of your vegetables as the vinegar will cover, and let them remain in whilst on the fire about a minute. Take them out on a broad dish. Let the vinegar boil up again, then put some more in the same way till all be done. Dry them in the sun or at a distance from the fire. Then put them in a jar regularly mixed with a layer of mustard seed strewed in amongst the pickle. Put a large onion stuck full of cloves in the middle of the jar; a ^lb. of eschalots, a head or two of • garlic, a stick of horseradish cut in two or three lengths and laid amongst the pickle. Take |lb. of- the best flour of mustard, 30ZS. of turmeric, a little cayenne, ginger, pepper, and long pepper, all- spice and mace—the spices to be crushed and put into muslin. All this to be boiled in vinegar suffi- cient to cover what you have put into the jar and poured on hot. Piekled Onions. Pickling Onions. Vinegar enough to cover them. To each quart of vinegar allow 2 teaspoonfuls of Allspice. 2 teaspoonfuls black Pepper. 1 teaspoonful Mustard Seed. Have the onions gathered when quite dry and ripe, take off the outside skin, then with a silver knife (steel would spoil the colour of the onions) remove the inner skin; pierce the onions with a silver fork, and as fast as they are prepared put them into very dry bottles or jars. Pour over sufficient vinegar to cover them, with the spice, etc., mixedKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 235 in the above proportions, and put them in a dry place, be ready for use. Tie down with bladder In a fortnight they will Miss Baxter. Pickled Walnuts. Prick the walnuts well with a fork, and place them for nine days in salt and water strong enough to float an egg; change this solution once. Drain and place them in jars. Boil vinegar, mace, cloves, ginger, black peppercorns and long pepper, and pour it over the walnuts whilst hot. Miss A. Foster. Red Chutney. i Onion chopped fine. 1 Tomato. Put it in hot water for a minute, peel it and chop it. i teaspoonful Oil. i teaspoonful of Vinegar, i saltspoonful Salt.- The same amount of Pepper. Mix them together, but do not pound. Lady Ollivant. Rushmere Chutney. ^lb. Garlic. 2lbs. Onions. 2lbs. Apples. 2lbs. Dates. 2lbs. Demerara Sugar. 2lbs. Sultana Raisins, ilb. Salt, ioz. Chillies. Three pints of vinegar can be added if too thick. Dates, onions, garlic and apples must be chopped fine. Mix all together and put in a large jar. Tie down close and keep on a not too hot stove two or three weeks, or until cooked a nice brown. Stir every day with a wooden spoon. Mrs. Langley.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR TIIE REMOVAL OF 236 Additional Recipes.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 237 Additional Recipes.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 238 SWEETMEATS Butter Toffee. ilb. Sugar, sib. Butter, gfb. Syrup. Pinch of Salt. A little Water 2 tablespoonfuls of Vinegar (just before toffee is done). Cherry Fondants. i White of Egg. 6ozs. Icing Sugar. Cherry Brandy. Put the white of egg into a basin, sift in the icing sugar, stir until the mixture is smooth and stiff. Flavour it with cherry brandy. Knead it well on a board or slab, and mould into balls. Split large glace cherries and fill with the balls; close, insert a thin strip of Angelica, and tie in bunches of threes and fives. Miss Clementson. Chocolate for Sweetmaking*. ilb. of Chocolate. 20ZS. of Cocoa Butter. Cut the chocolate in pieces and place it in a double saucepan until it becomes a smooth paste. Melt the cocoa butter in another pan and add the chocolate; stir until it is nearly cold, then use for coating nuts or any creams. Miss M. S. Owen.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Addit ICES. inana Ice. e Bananas, non. Zream. lespoonful Liqueur, mgh a sieve; add the liqueur, r. Pour into the cream, stirring freeze. Miss Clementson. ; Ice Cream. m. of Sugar. ifuls of Coffee Extract, or ground Coffee. Egg- the milk and bring to boiling nigh coarse muslin, add the to cool. When quite cold add ' whipped, and the well-beaten seze. If the extract of coffee ;sary to strain the milk. C. Perkin. I Pudding*. flavoured (made with the yolks of e thick when cold, m (firm), lerry. it in halves. 1 freeze in a quart mould. 245IN AID OF THE FUND FOR TlHE REMOVAL OF 3ipes. SWEETMEA Butter Toffe ilb. Sugar, sib. Butter. ilb. Syrup. Pinch of Salt. A little Water 2 tablespoonfuls of Vinegar (just 1 Cherry Fonch i White of Egg. 6ozs. Icing Suga Cherry Brandy. Put the white of egg into a has sugar, stir until the mixture is Flavour it with cherry brandy, board or slab, and mould into glace cherries and fill with the fc thin strip of Angelica, and tie ii and fives. Chocolate for Swei ilb. of Chocolate. 20ZS. of Cocoa Bu Cut the chocolate in pieces and saucepan until it becomes a smc cocoa butter in another pan an stir until it is nearly cold, then or any creams. 238KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 245 ICES. Banana Ice. 5 ripe Bananas. 5 Lemon, ipt. Cream. i tablespoonful Liqueur. Rub the bananas through a sieve; add the liqueur, lemon juice, and sugar. Pour into the cream, stirring all well together, and freeze. Miss Clementson. Coffee lee Cream. ipt. of Milk, ipt. of Cream, i teacupful of Sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls of Coffee Extract, or jib. of ground Coffee. White of i Egg. Mix the coffee with the milk and bring to boiling point; strain it through coarse muslin, add the sugar, and set aside to cool. When quite cold add the cream, previously whipped, and the well-beaten white of egg and freeze. If the extract of coffee is used it is not necessary to strain the milk. C. Perkin. Iced Pudding’. ipt. of Custard, well flavoured (made with the yolks of 6 Eggs); must be thick when cold, ipt. of whipped Cream (firm). 2 wineglassfuls of Sherry, ioz. Brandy. sib. dried Cherries, cut in halves, i or 2 dried Fruits. Mix well together and freeze in a quart mould.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 246 leed Coffee Granite. Mix a breakfastcupful of very strong coffee, sweetened to taste, with 3pts. of scalded cream. Strain, freeze until half frozen, and serve. Miss Baxter. Lemon Cream lee. 2 Lemons. 6ozs. Sugar. ^pt. Water. ^pt. Double Cream. Peel the lemons thinly; boil the rind, sugar and water gently five minutes; add the lemon juice. When cold, strain it. Whip the cream, add lemon-water, stir well together, and freeze. Miss Clementson. Raspberry Water lee. i lb. Raspberries. 6ozs. Loaf Sugar, spt. Water, i White of Egg Rub the raspberries through a sieve; boil the sugar and water five minutes; strain, and add to the fruit juice. Add the white of egg, stiffly beaten. Mix well together, freeze, and serve. Miss Clementson. Strawberry lee Cream. ipt. of Milk, ipt. of Cream, ilb. of Sugar, iqt. of Strawberries. White of i Egg. Heat the milk and cream to boiling point, stir in half the sugar and set aside to cool. Mash the strawberries with the rest of the sugar, and strain through coarse muslin; then add this juice to the milk (quite cold), and also the white of egg well beaten, and freeze. If necessary add a few drops of carmine. C. Perkin.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL T'O SOUTH LONDON. 247 Vanilla Ice Cream. ipt. of Milk, ipt. of Cream. i tablespoonful of Essence of Vanilla, i teacupful 'of Sugar. White of i Egg. Bring the milk and cream just to boiling point, stir in the sugar and set aside to cool. When quite cold add the vanilla and the well beaten white of egg; pour into the freezer. Freeze until sufficiently stiff. C. Perkin.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE 248 REMOVAL of ^ . Additional Recipes.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 249 Additional Recipes.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 250 BEVERAGES Barley Water Lemonade. 2pts. Water. 6ozs. Sugar. Rind of i Lemon. Juice of 2 Lemons. i dessert-spoonful of Robinson’s Patent Barley. Mix smoothly, and stir on the fire till it boils. Then skim well and strain. Miss H. Clements. Champagne Cup. 3 bottles of Champagne. 1 Lemon (juice). 2 wineglassfuls of Brandy. 6 wineglassfuls of Sherry. ^pt. of Curagoa. 4 bottles of Soda Water. Mix all the ingredients, with sugar to taste, except the soda-water, which must be put in the last few minutes. To be well iced. Mrs. Colegrave. Cherry Brandy. Take freshly gathered Morelia cherries, cut off about half the stalk, put the fruit into wide necked bottles, cover with brandy and cork tnem well. Store them away in a dry place for 12 months. Then pour off the cherry brandy and re-cover the fruit with syrup for about three weeks, after which time the fruit will be ready for dessert. Sometimes the cherries will bear a second covering of brandy before filling the bottles with syrup. To every 3pts. of cherry brandy add ipt. of syrup and ipt. of pure brandy. Bottle for use, and cork it well. Mr. NArr'ER.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Cider Cup. With a bottle of cider or Rhenish wine mix a pint of sherry and a glassful of brandy, and the juice and rind of one lemon; add a sprig of balm and another of burrage. Sugar to taste. Mrs. Coi.egrave. Claret Cup. 3 bottles of Claret (light). 3 bottles of Soda Water. 1 Lemon (juice and rind). 2 Oranges (juice). A few slices of Cucumber. A sprig of Balm and Burrage. Sugar to taste. Mix the whole before adding the soda water. A lump of ice will greatly improve it. Mrs. Coi.egrave. Curacjoa. 2 scruples each of Oil of Cloves, Cinnamon, and Nut- meg. i drachm of Oil of Bitter Almonds. 1 gill of Spirits of Wine. 2 scruples of Mace. i gallon of old Rum. 5 gallon of Water. 4lbs. of white pounded Sugar. Mix, put into a jar and shake it well every morning for a week; then bottle axrd cork well. Mrs. Barnard. Damson Gin. Put into a half gallon stone jar 3 breakfastcupfuls of sound ripe damsons, 6ozs. sugar candy; fill up the jar with unsweetened gin, cork down -tight, and bottle it at the end of one year. Miss Emma Durham. 25iIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 252 Elder Flower Wine. To every gallon of water add 3lbs. of sugar, ilb. of raisins, chopped, and the juice of a lemon. To every io gallons add half a peck of elderflowers and a tablespoonful of yeast. Put all into a barrel and fill it with cold water. Stir it every day, and when it has done fermenting, bung it, and let it stand six months; then bottle it. If the wine is to be kept more than twelve months, it will require brandv. Mrs. Douglas Smith. Fruit Aeid (To be used instead of Raspberry Vinegar.) Dissolve 5ozs. of tartaric acid in 2qts. of water. Pour it upon I2lbs. of fruit in a large bowl; let it stand for 24 hours. Strain it from the fruit with- out pressing. To every pint of liquor add i^lbs. of pounded sugar, and stir till quite dissolved. Bottle it for use, allowing it to stand a few days before corking. This quantity makes 8 quarts. It makes very good sauce for puddings. Raspberries and cur- rants are the best fruit to use. Mrs. Douglas Smith. Ginger Beer. 4lbs. loaf Sugar. 30ZS. Ginger Lump. 30ZS. Cream of Tartar. 4 Lemons, peeled very thin. Crush ginger, and pour 4 gallons of boiling water over all. Stir often, and when lukewarm add the white of an egg and 2 tablespoonfuls of fresh yeast. Let it stand for 24 hours; then bottle in stone bottles. The white of egg and yeast must first be mixed together. The following quantities will fill 15 large bottles. 2^ gallons Water. 2ozs. Cream of Tartar. 20zs. Ginger. 2pbs. Sugar. 2^ Lemons. Miss H. Clements.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON 253 Ginger Wine. 5 gallons of Water. ioMbs. of loaf Sugar. Mix together, with the whites of 6 eggs well beaten; boil together and keep it well skimmed; add £lb. of ginger bruised, boil £ of an hour; when cool strain off; put in a slice of toast dipped in new yeast; let it stand two days, then add the rind and juice of 12 lemons, with 1 lb. of sugar, to the wine when done working; take out the toast and add iqt. of brandy. Put into bottles and cork well. Mrs. Barnard. Dissolve. Imperial Drink. ioz. Acid Potassium Tartare. ioz. Tartaric Acid. 12 minims Oil of Lemon. 1 lb. refined Sugar. 1 gallon boiling Water. King's College Hospital. Lemonade. Juice of 6 Lemons. Rind of 4 Lemons. 6ozs. lump Sugar. 40ZS. Pearl Barley. 4qts. quite boiling Water. Leave till cold, then strain. Miss Elderton. Lemon Syrup (1). ipt. cold Water, ilb. loaf Sugar, ioz. Citric Acid. 2 teaspoonfuls Essence of Lemon. Boil the sugar and water together for half-an- hour; when cool, mix the acid and lemon well togethei in a small basin, and add to the syrup. Put it into a bottle, cork, and use 1 or 2 tablespoon- fuls in a tumbler of cold water. Miss LI. Clements.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 254 Lemon Syrup (2). 2lbs. loaf Sugar, iipts. Water, i^ozs. Tartaric Acid. 2 Lemons. Cut the lemons in thin slices and place in a large jug with the tartaric acid, sugar and boiling water. When cold it is ready for use. If preferred, a tea- spoonful of essence of lemon may be used instead of lemons. Miss Phyllis Attenborough. Orange Brandy. To two bottles of brandy add the pared rind of four Seville oranges. Let it stand four or five days, then add i pint of new milk, in which you have boiled Jib. of lump sugar, with the juice and pulp of four Seville oranges and two sweet ones. Let it stand two or three days longer, then strain and bottle it. Mrs. Douglas Smith. Raspberry Acid. Take 2^ozs. of tartaric acid and dissolve in 2pts. of hot water. Pour it upon 61bs. of raspberries. Let it stand for 24 hours, then strain lightly through a sieve and add iilbs. of lump sugar, bruised, to each pint of juice. Stir it occasionally, and when the sugar is dissolved, bottle it, not filling the bottles quite full. Strawberries, currants, and mulberries may be done in the same way, and the syrup may be used to make jelly (with gelatine) or be used with soda water as a “ refreshing drink.” J. F. C.KING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 255 Sloe Gin. A bottle of gin to ^ pint of sloes, £lb. of sugar, two or three cloves. Bruise the sloes before putting them in the bottles'. Black-currant gin can be made the same way; crush the currants before adding. Mas. Douglas Smith. Strawberry Nectar. To one quart of mashed strawberries, add the juice of i lemon and 2 tablespoonfuls of orange juice, 3 pints of water. Let it stand three hours, then strain it upon Jib. of powdered sugar, and stir well till dissolved. Serve ice cold. Miss M. Harben.IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF Additional Recipes,KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 257 K MISCELLANEOUS. Albumen Water. Cut the white of I raw egg in several directions with a clean pair of scissors, add ipt. of cold water, pour it into a bottle and shake well till it is thoroughly mixed. Flavour with lemon juice or cinnamon. , King’s College Hospital. • Beef Tea (1). Six lbs. of the neck of beef (second cut), to be had the day after it is killed. Cut the beef up into small pieces, and put it into a stew-pot (with cover) that will hold all the meat and bones and 2qts. of water. Put the pot into a hot oven, and let it boil as soon as possible. Let it remain io hours slowly boil- ing. If the beef tea is wanted to be of extra strength and to jelly, add 2lbs. of shin-bone to the above. After all is well stewed, strain off the liquor, and put back into the stew-pot all the beef and bones ag'ain; fill it up with cold water, and let all stew for another 12 hours; this makes a good second tea, and can be used by itself or mixed with a little of the best. The stew-pot should be put into the oven at 7 o’clock and left all night to stew. Mrs. Shepherd. Beef Tea (2). Take 1 lb. of lean beef (remove all skin, fat, and gristle), cut it into small cubes about Jin. square, place it in an earthenware jar, and add one pint of water. Cover the jar and stand it in a saucepan ofIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 258 cold water over a slow fire—or, better still, in a hot oven—and allow it to simmer for four hours; strain, and take off any scum from the surface with clean paper or a spoon. Add boiling water to make one pint. King's College Hospital. Barley Cream for Invalids. 2lbs. of veal, Jib. pearl barley, boiled in i qt. of water till it will pass through the finest sieve, and made the thickness of cream; add salt to taste. Take a small quantity 2 or 3 times a day. Mrs. Douglas Smith. Cream Cheese. Take the cream when it is ripe (that is 2 or 3 days old), put it to drain in muslin for 24 hours, then shape it and put it in a cloth wrung out of salt water; put it between plates and change the cloth every day. Miss Sumner. Coug’h Mixture. 1 pennyworth Laudanum. ' 1 pennyworth Paregoric. 1 pennyworth Oil of Aniseed. 1 pennyworth Peppermint. Pour ipt. boiling water over Jib. treacle; when cold, add the above ingredients and stir well; then bottle. Miss L. Mawle. Essence of Meat. Two pounds of gravy beef cut up, put in a jar with ioz. butter; keep simmering over the fire 4 hours. Pour the juice off immediately on taking off the fire. Miss M. Perkin.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Egg Panada. One oz. stale crumb bread, place in a stewpan with a little cold water and a pinch of salt; let it boil five minutes, strain off the water, and rub the bread through a gravy strainer. Put it back into the stew- pan with ioz. butter and the well-beaten yolk of an egg. Stir until it thickens, but do not boil. Mr. Napper. Furniture Polish. 30ZS. Beeswax, ioz. white Beeswax, ioz. curd Soap, ipt. Turpentine, ipt. Water. Dissolve waxes in turpentine first, and dissolve soap in boiling water, and then mix well together; bottle, and shake before using. J 2 Miss L. Mawle. y e French Polish. e ipt. of Methylated Spirit. 20zs. of Gum Shellac, joz. of Gum Benzoine. joz. of Gum Mastic. Mrs. Morison. Milk Toast. Cut as many slices of bread as required, about an inch thick, toast nicely, and butter while hot; sprinkle over a little salt and pepper, place in the dish it is to be served in, and pour boiling milk over, sufficient to cover it. This is a simple dish for invalids. Pot Pourri (1). Equal parts of Saltpetre, Bay Salt, and common Salt, crushed very fine and mixed. Cover the bottom of a large wide-mouthed jar with this; then put a layer of flowers,IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 260 then another of salt, and so on, always leaving off with the latter. When full, cover with a plate or cover, and in a few days pour out the water which will have collected, pressing the flowers, etc. Then put the following ingredients into a large basin or pan: — Jib. Orris Root, ground very fine, ioz. powdered Ginger. Jib. Cloves, ground to fine powder. 5 a Nutmeg, ground to fine powder. A little Cinnamon, ground to fine powder. 20ZS. Oil of Lavender. 20zs. Oil of Bergamot. 20ZS. Oil of Lemon. A little Attar of Rose. A Musk Nut, or Oil (very expensive!), and any other oils or essences you like. Mix well into the powder, then gradually put in the contents of the jar or jars. When the whole Is thoroughly mixed, put all back into the jars and (fasten up to keep out all air for six months. ! Flowers Used. 1 Cabbage-Rose leaves. 2 or 3 handfuls of Lavender. 2 or 3 handfuls of Jasmine blossoms. 2 or 3 handfuls of the red part of Clove Carnations. A quantity of Verbena leaves. Violets to be added when in seastn. Seringa Orange blossoms, Myrtle leaves, and the dci.is of 2 or 3 Seville Oranges and Tangerine ditto, dried and grated. Mrs. Flux. Pot Pourri (2). (Dated 1862.) Gather the rose leaves when quite dry, and only the sweet kinds. Dry them for a few days on sheets of paper, then put them in a covered jar with a layer of bay salt and a sprinkling of common salt between each layer of leaves. Keep adding rose leaves and bay salt as long as the season lasts. Stir themKING'S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. well every day, and keep the jar covered close up. It is best to have two jars, as the rose leaves fresh gathered do not go well with those that have been as long as three days in the jar, until they have been also two or three days mixed with the bay salt; they can then be added. Dry clove carnations, sweet herbena, bay leaves, walnut leaves, and plenty of lavender, and at the end of the rose season add them' to the rose leaves with the spices following: — ioz. Storax. ioz. Gum Benzoine. Cloves. Cinnamon. 41b. Orris Root (broken small but not powdered). ioz. Sandal Wood. iogrs. Musk. ioz. Marshal Powder. ioz. Sal Prunella. Bruise the gums a little and add them to the rose leaves, when ready, mixing all together. Of course, the quantity of the gums and spices depends on the quantity of rose leaves. This recipe is for a larg'e jar of roses. Miss A. Hobill. Pot Pourri (3). i lb. Rose Leaves, ilb. Lavender Flowers. 41b. Bay Leaves. A few Lime Flowers. Balm of Gilead. Lay them in a jar with layers of bay salt, then add 41b. of nitre, Jib. of bruised cloves, Aoz. of ground allspice, Joz. of storax, Joz. of gum benjamin. Cover all closely for several" days, then add a Seville orange which has been stuck with cloves and baked and pounded. Strew this with the other ingredients. (I he Hon. Mrs. George Denman’s recipe) per Miss Hobill, ?6jIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 262 Pot Pourri (4). Collect all sorts of sweet flowers and put them into a jar in layers, with bay salt. Add the following : — 2drs. Spikenard. 2drs. Civet, i dr. Benjamin. Cloves and Orris Root (more the better). 3grs. Thrush. |oz. Sal Prunella. Break the gums a little and mix them together, and put them into a jar with the flowers. Miss A. Hobill. Porridge. 20zs. medium Oatmeal. About 2 gills cold Water. I teaspoonful Salt. Put the meal and salt into a bowl, pour the water gradually in among it, stirring all the time to make it smooth. Pour all into the pan, bring to the boil; boil for at least \ an hour. Be careful to stir it often with a wooden spoon or stick, to prevent lumps. Raw Meat Juice. Take Jib. lean beef or mutton finely minced, put it in a cup, add just enough water to cover it; allow it to stand, covered, in a cool place for i hour; then strain through muslin, squeezing out the juice from the meat as completely as possible. King's College Hospital. Savoury Custards. i Egg. Jpt. of Beef Tea. Break the egg into a cup and beat it up; add a pinch of salt and beef-tea. Pour into a greased cup; tie a buttered paper over the top. Stearn slowly for 15 minutes. Miss Bailey.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. To Clean Glass Bottles, Decanters, etc. Roll up, in small pieces, some whited-brown or blotting paper, then wet and soap the same; put them into the vessel, with a little lukewarm water; shake them well for a few minutes; then rinse the glass with clean water, and it will be as bright and clear as when new from the shop. Dated 1811. To Clean Paint. Boil lib. of bran in 8pts. of water for i hour; strain it and wash the paint with it. Mrs. Mokison. To Clean White Marble. Take equal quantities of pearl ash and whitening, dissolve it in cold water and let it stand all night before using it; then paint it on the marble, and wash off with cold water next day. C. Perkin. To Prevent Beer Becoming- Flat after it is Drawn. Put a piece of toasted bread into it, and it will preserve the spirit for 12 hours after, in a consider- able degree. To Make Porridge. (4.s taught in the Torphican School, Edinburgh). A teacupful of oatmeal (middles) to ipt. of fresh- drawn cold water. When the water is about to come to the boil, slowly sprinkle in the meal with the left hand while stirring round and round with the spur- cel (the stick end of the wooden spoon) with the other hand. Add a teaspoonful of salt while very fluid, but not before some of the meal is added Let it simmer for 20 minutes. Lady Priestley,IN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF To Sweeten Rancid Butter. If, from any cause, butter becomes rancid, to each pint of it, add one tablespoonful of salt and one tea- spoonful of soda. Mix well, then add one pint of cold water, and set on the fire until it comes to the boiling point. Now set away to cool, and when hard take off the butter in a cake, wipe it dry, and put it away for cooking purposes. It will be perlectly sweet.KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOOTH LONDON. INDEX. Soups. 1‘AGE Artichoke Soup (i) i Carrot Soup i Cauliflower Soup i Chestnut Soup i Clear Soup 2 Clear Mulligatawny Soup 2 Cressy Soup 3 Fish Soup 3 Flemish Soup 4 German Soup 4 Green Pea Soup 4 Iced Soup 3 Jenny Lind Soup 5 Kidney Soup 5 Leek and Potato Soup ... 6 Meg Merrilies Soup 6 Milk Soup 6 Onion Soup (1) 7 Onion Soup (2) 7 Parsnip Soup 7 Artichoke Soup (2) 8 Polish Soup 8 Potato Soup (1) g Potato Soup (2) g Rabbit Soup- g Spinach Soup ro Tomato Soup (1) 10 Tomato Soup (2) n Tomato Soup (3) 11 Tomato Bisque Soup 11 Tomato Soup with Maca- roni 12 Veal Soup ; 12 Vegetable Soup 12 Vegetable Soup (Brunoise) 13 White Lentil Soup 13 Additional Recipes 14-15 Fish. A Russian Salad 16 Boiled Haddock, with Sauce 16 Dried Haddock and Tom- atoes r6 Dublin Bay Prawns Casse- role 17 Fish—continued, PAGE Filet de Sole k la Nor- mande 17 Fish Cakes .' 17 Fish for an Invalid 18 Fish Macaroni 18 Fish Mooloo 18 Fish and Oyster Pie ig Fresh Herrings (Baked) ... ig Fish Pie 20 Fish Pudding 20 Fish Souflld 21 Gateau de Poisson 21 German Stewed Fish ... 21 Haddock Toast 21 Irish Fish Pie 22 Lobster Quenelles 22 Oyster Fritters 23 Oyster Kromeskies 23 Oyster Cutlets 24 Plaice with Tomatoes and Onions 24 * Scalloped Lobster 25 Sole a la Rouennais 25 Stewed Soles 25 Stuffed" Fillets of Haddock 26 To Cook Plaice 26 To Dress Crabs 26 Additional Recipes 27-28 Sauces. American or Sharp Sauce 2g Bechamel Sauce 2g Bread Sauce (1) 2g Bread Sauce (2) 30 Egg Sauce for Fish 30 Foam Sauce 30 Hollandaise Sauce 30 Horseradish Sauce 31 Matrimony Sauce for Vege- tables 31 Mayonnaise Sauce 31 Melted Butter 3r Mushroom Ketchup 32 Piquant Sauce 32 Salad Sauce 32 Salad Dressing (1) 33INAID OF THE FUND for the removal of Index—continued. Sauces—continued. Salad Dressing (2) Sauce Bearnaise Sauce for Cold Salmon ... A Good Sauce for Boiled Fish Sauce Flamande (for Cod Fish) ! Sweet Sauce (1) Sweet Sauce (2) Thick Sauce Tomato Sauce (1) ............ Tomato Sauce (2) Tomato Sauce (for keeping) Walnut Ketchup White Sauce Additional Recipes PAGE 33 33 33 34 34 34 35 35 35 35 36 36 36 37-38 Meats and Entrees. BREDEE 3g Beef au Gratin 3g Beef Roll 40 Bengal Cutlets 40 Braised Loin of Mutton... 40 Breast of Mutton a la Ste. Menoult 41 Bubble and Squeak 41 Creme de Veau 41 Cambridge Sausages 42 Cassolettes of Cucumber... 42 Devil Mixture ._.... 42 Devilled Mutton 43 Excellent Beef Galantine.. 43 Fricas^ed Sweetbread ... 43 Fiscatelles of Veal 43 German Roast 44 cierman Sausage 44 Hunter’s Pie 45 Ham Sausage 45 Hot Pot 45 Hotch Potch 46 Haggis (Scotch, Simple)... 46 Indian Hash for Venison or Mutton 47 Isle of Wight Timbale ... 47 Jugged Steak 47 Kidneys with Macaroni ... 48 Kidneys k la Brochette ... 48 M6£its and Entrsss—contd. Lobscouse Lunch Brawn Leg of Mutton k la Meg Dod Loin of Mutton a la Venaison Mushroom Pie Macaroni h l’ltalienne ... Meat Jelly Macaroni Scallops Mock Venison Mock Turtle Pie Oxfordshire Bacon Pud- ding Oeufs en darioles a la Portuguese Pish Pash Potemkin Pie Polenta Reform Cutlets Rolled Breast of Mutton... Roman Pudding Stuffed Tomatoes Savoury Macaroni Stuffed Cabbage Spanish Onions Stuffed ... Stewed Kidneys Sheep’s Head Brawn Sasaties To Pot Beef Tomatoes Stuffed Tomatoes Stuffed with Mushrooms I Veal Castle Veal Sausages Walnut Stew Wakefield Steak Yorkshire Pudding Beef or Tongue Pickle ... Boeuf de Chasse or Irish Red Round Empress of Russia’s Brine Liverpool Beef Pickle for Beef or Tongues Spiced Beef To Cure Hams (1) To Cure Hams (2) 266 PAGE 48 48 49 49 50 50 51 51 51 52 52 53 53 53 54 54 54 55 55 55 55 56 56 56 57 57 57 58 58 58 59 59 59 60 60 61 61 62 62 62 63KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Index—continued. Meats and Entrees—contd. PAGE To Cure Haras (3) 63 To Cure Tongues 64 Additional Recipes 63-66 Curries. Bobotee 67 Curry (1) 67 Curry (2) 68 Curry (3) 68 Dahl 69 Kidneys with Curry Sauce 69 Toast Curry 69 Vegetable Curry 70 Vegetables and Salads. Adelaide Potatoes 71 Boiled Rice 71 Cauliflower Salad 71 Compote of Vegetables ... 72 Date Salad 72 Green Peas 72 Italian Salad 73 Kitchree 73 Mashed Turnips 73 Pommes de terre a la Maitre d’PIotel 74 Peas a la Franfaise 74 Red Cabbage 74 Savoury Potatoes 75 Stewed Potatoes 75 Tomato and Banana Salad 75 To Boil Potatoes 76 To Boil Rice 76 To cook French Beans, pre- serving their juice 76 To Stew Peas 77 Additional Recipes 78-79 Poultry a,nd Game. A COORMAH 80 A Lunch Mould 80 A Pillan So Chicken Brawn 81 Chicken Cream for Invalids 81 Cigarettes a la Reine 8r HJhicken Pie 82 thicken Pudding 82 Poultry and' Game—contd. PAGE Cotelettes de Volaille k la Grafton 83 Country Captain 83 Dumpode Duck (Eastern Way) 83 Entrde of Cold Chicken ... 84 Giblet Stew .84 Galantine of Fowl 83 Harried Rabbit 8.3 Indian Spotchcock 86 Jugged Hare 86 Potted Birds 87 Stuffing for Hare 87 Simmered Spiced Chicken 87 Truffle Pudding 87 To Dress an Old Hen ... 88 To Cook Small Game ... 88 Additional Recipes 90-91. Savouries and Breakfast Dishes. A Breakfast Dish 92 Anchovy Straws 92 Anchovy Toast 92 Aspic Jelly 93 Boiled Cheese 93 Breakfast Dish 94 Cheese Aigrettes 94 Cheese Balls 94 Cheese Fritters 94 Cheese Patties 95 Cheese Pudding 95 Cheese Shortcake 93 Cheese Souffle 95 Cheese Straws (r) 96 Cheese Straws (2) g6 Dish of Eggs 96 “ Dublin Lawyer ” g6 Egg Balls 97 Egg Fondue gy Eggs k la Nevern 97 Eggs a la Regence 97 Eggs a la Tripe 98 Foaming Eggs 98 Fried Kidneys 98 Grilled Kidneys gg Ham Cakes ggIN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 268 t i Index—continued. Savouries and Breakfast Dishes—continued. PAGE Ham Toast gg Hors d’oeuvre — Petiles Bouchees a la Naylor... gg Indian Sandwiches ioo Macaroni Cheese ioo Mushroom Eggs ioo Risotto ioo Sardine Sandwiches ioi Savoury Pudding ioi Savoury Puffs ioi Savoury Rice (i) 102 Savoury Rice (2) 102 Savoury Spinach 102 Savoury Tartlets 102 Scalloped Eggs 103 j Scotch Eggs 103 ■ Spanish Eggs 103 Tartlets k la Diable 104 Toast Savoury 104 ‘ Welsh Rarebit 105 j Additional Recipes 106-107 Puddings and Pastry Angel Pudding Apple Fritters Apple and Custard Pud- ding Apple Meringue Pudding Apple Steffin A Simple Apple Pudding Apple and Cornflour Pud- ding Apple Fritters or ICro- meskies An Old Oxfordshire Dish Almond Pudding Austrian Pudding Bombay Pudding Baked Treacle Pudding... Bakewell Pudding Baked Rhubarb and Cus- tard Pudding Beignets de Pommes a la Bavarin Berlin Pancakes Boiled Bread Pudding ... Postop Apple Pudding ... Puddings and Pastry —contd. page Christmas Pudding (1) 114 Christmas Pudding (2) 114 Christmas Pudding (3) 115 Cambridge Pudding 115 Caramel Pudding 116 Chocolate Pudding 116 Currant Fritters 116 Carrot Pudding 117 Canary Pudding 117 Chocolate Souffle 118 Curd Cheese-Cakes 118 7 Cup Pudding 11S Cottage Pudding 11S Date Pudding ng Easy-made Pudding ng Egyptian Pudding 1 ig Frangipan of Apples ng French Pancakes (1) 120 French Pancakes (2) 120 Friends’ Pudding 120 Felixstowe Tart 121 Fauchonettes 121 Fig Pudding (1) 121 Fig Pudding (2) 122 Friars’ Omelette 122 Gatakin Pudding 122 Ginger Pudding 123 Goolgoola 123 Ground Rice Cheese Cakes 123 Honeycomb Pudding 124 Hasty Pudding 124 Indian Pancakes 124 Jerusalem Pudding—“ Set- ffin ” 124 Jubilee Pudding 125 Jam Puffs 125 Karthauser Klose 125 Lemon Rice Pudding ... 126 Llandudno Pudding 126 Leicester Pudding 126 Lemon Cheese-Cakes (1)— 127 Lemon Cheese-Cakes (2)... 127 Lemon Pudding 127 Maud’s Pudding 127 Miss Garfit’s Pudding ... 128 Mincemeat (1) 12S Mincemeat (2) —.. 128 108 108 108 iog iog iog no no 110 in in 111 112 112 112 113 113 113 114KING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. Index—continued. Puddings and Pastry—contd. PAGE Malaga Pudding 129 Marmalade Pudding ...... 129 Obletjes X30 Orange Pudding 130 Orange Pudding 131 Pollertjes 131 Picnic Pudding 131 Plum Pudding 132 Potato Cheese-Cakes 132 Prince Albert Pudding ... 132 Preserved Ginger Pudding 133 Plain Pudding 133 Pineapple Pudding 133 Kailway Pudding 134 Rice Cheese-Cakes 134 Russian Pudding 134 Rothesay Pudding 135 Sago Rice 135 School Pudding 133 Sponge Pudding 136 Suet Pudding 136 Short Pastry 136 Saddington Pudding 136 Semolina Pudding 137 Stanley Pudding 137 Sultana Pudding 137 “Two Two” Pudding ... 137 The Todd Plum Pudding 138 Treacle Sponge 138 Turkish Pastry—“ Koura- biedes ” 139 Transparent Snowden Pud- ding 139 Treacle Pudding 139 Treacle Sponge 140 Vegetable Pudding 140 Additional Recipes 141-142 Creams and Cold Sweets. Apple Snow 143 A Cold Pudding 143 Banana Cream (1) 144 Banana Cream (2) 144 Blanc Mange (1) 144 Blanc Mange (2) 145 Coffee Custard 145 Coffee Junket 145 Coffee Mould 14c Creams and Cold Sweets— continued. page Chocolate Mould 146 Cream Shape 146 Creme au Chocolat 146 Custard Mould 147 Cold Fruit Pudding 147 Cream Tapioca 14,7 Chocolate Sponge 148 _ Caledonian Cream 148 Chocolate Cream (1) 148 Chocolate Cream (2) 149 Chestnut Cream 149 Compote de Poires a la Creme Vanille 149 Chocolate Nougats h la Creme 150 Cornflour Blanc Mange ... 15b Cream Mould ijji Cream an Caramel 151 Egg Cream 151 French Pastry and Choco- late Eclairs 152 Flower Baskets 152 Flummery 152 Fairy Butter 153 Fruit Souflld 153 Genoese Pastry 153 Ginger Cream 154 Gateau of Plums 154 Flousewife’s Cream 154 Imperial Trifle '... 154 Jaune Mange 155 Leche Crema 155 Lemon Trifle 155 Lemon Cream (1) 156 Lemon Cream (2) 156 Mock Ice Pudding 156 Macaroon Cream 137 Meringues 157 Normandy Pippins 158 Nun’s Pudding 158 Nun’s Cream 158 Prune Souffles 158 Plain Chocolate Mould ... 159 Prune Meringue 159 Pineapple Sponge 159 Pineapple Trifle 160IN AID OF THE FUND FOR TI-IE REMOVAL OF Index— continued. Creams and Cold Sweets— Bread, Seones, &e.~ -contd. continued. PAGE Pistachio Cream PACE Plain Tea Cakes Sally Lunn .... 178 178 Red Plum Mould Scones (1) Rum Butter Scones (2) Raspberry Gateau Scones (3) Raspberry Flummery . Small Tea Cakes .... 17g Strawberry Fool To Make Bread Easily ... 180 Snow Pudding Additional Recipes .181-182 Stone Cream Strawberry Cream Solid Syllabub Cakes. Vellow Flummery 163 American Cake ... 183 Additional Recipes .... Brompton Cake ... 183 Jellies. IVpple Jelly .'. Claret Jelly (i) Claret felly (2) Coffee Jelly with Cream ... 167 nvalid Port Wine Jelly Invalid Porter Jelly 167 ... 167 felly : ... 168 Lemon felly ... 168 Vlilk Jelly ... 16S Orange Jelly Prune I el ly (1) Prune felly (2) Sandringham Jelly Strengthening Jelly ... 170 Additional Recipes .171-172 Bread, Seones, &e. Bread 173 Brown Bread 173 Brown Scone 173 Brown Bread 174 Cinnamon Rolls 174 Dropped Scones 174 French Rolls 175 Ginger Buns 175 Girdle Cakes 175 Girdle Scones 176 Light Bread, Rolls or Buns 176 Oat Cakes 177 Potato Scones 177 Brown Cake 183 Brown Raisin Cake 184 Buttermilk Cake 184 Mrs. Carter’s Cake 184 Chocolate Cake (1) 185 Cnocolate Cake (2) 185 Chocolate Cake (3) 185 Chocolate and Orange Cake 186 Clapton Rice Cake 186 Cake 187 Coffee Cake (1) 187 Coffee Cake (2) 188 Composition Cake 188 Currant Cake i8g Genoa Cake i8g Gingerbread i8g Gingerbread Cake igo Ginger Cake (1) igo Ginger Cake (2) igo Ground Rice Cake igi A Good Plain Cake igi Guest Cake igi Hermils ig2 Little Santon Cake ig2 Lunch Loaf ig2 Norwich Cake ig2 Northern Cake ig3 Orange Cake (1) ig3 Orange Cake (2) ig3 Orange Cake (3) ig4 Paradise Cake ig4 Parkin (1) ig4 Parkin (2) igs Pink Cake igs 27OKING’S COLLEGE HOSPITAL TO SOUTH LONDON. 271 Index—continued. Cakes—continued. PAGE Pitcaithly Bannock 195 Plum Cake 196 Plain Soda Cake 196 Raspberry Cake 196 A Rice Cake 197 A Rich Cake 197 Raisin Cake 197 Sandwich Cake J98 Scotch Shortbread 198 Shortbread (1) 198 Shortbread (2) 198 Shortbread (3) 199 Simnel Cake igg Sister igg Soda Bunloaf Cake 200 Soft Gingerbread 200 Soda Cake (1) 200 boda Cake (2) 201 Soda Cake (3) 201 Scotch Gingerbread Cake... 201 Spice Cake 202 Sponge Cake (1) 202 Sponge Cake (2) 202 Sponge Cake (3) 203 Sultana Cake 203 Swiss Sandwich 203 Swiss Roll 204 Tenby Cake 204 Thick Gingerbread 204 Venetian Cake 205 Vinegar Cake 205 White Grantham Ginger- bread '. 205 Walnut Cake 205 Yorkshire Cake 206 Additional Recipes 207-208 Small Cakes and Biscuits. Acle Cakes 209 Bachelor’s Buttons 209 Baby Cakes 209 Chocolate Cakes 210 Cream Cakes 210 Citrons 210 Cocoanut Buns 2ir Cornflour Buns 211 Easter Cakes 211 Indian Griddle Cakes ... 212 Jean Balls 212 Small Cakes and Biscuits— continued. Jumbles PACK1 2121 213. 213 Lady Abbess Cakes Petit Fours 213 Potato Cakes 214 , Raspberry Buns 214 Rout Cakes 7 214 Small Rice Cakes 214 Sand Cakes 215 : Shrewsbury Cakes 215 Seed Rocks 215 ; S.pitzbuben 216 , Suet Cakes 216; Sponge Cakes 216 j Zoete Krakeling 2171 American Biscuits 21 7! Brown Biscuits 217 Charcoal Biscuits 2l8i Ginger Biscuits 2lSl Little Biscuits 2l8 Water Biscuits 219; Wine Biscuits 2IQ Water Biscuits for Dessert 219 Additional Recipes ... Preserves. Apple Preserve 222, Orange Marmalade (1) 222 i Orange Marmalade (2) 222 Orange Marmalade (3) 223 r reserved Pears 223! Raspberry Preserve 223 Rhubarb and Orange Jam 224 Rhubarb Jam (1) 224 Rhubarb Jam (2) 224 “Shaddock” or “Grape- Fruit ” Marmalade 225 Strawberries Preserved Whole 225 Tomato Jam 22s To Preserve Currants Bottling for 226 To Bottle Fruit (1) ... 226 To Bottle Fruit (2) ... 226 To Bottle Fruit (3) ... 226 To Preserve Pears or other Fruit 227RN AID OF THE FUND FOR THE REMOVAL OF 272 Index—continued. ( Preserves—continued,. PAGE To Bottle Green Goose- ( berries 227 jgetabfe Marrow Jam ... 227 r.a'b Apple Jelly 227 reen Gooseberry Jelly ... 228 ooseberry Jelly 228 edlar Jelly 22S lum Jelly 228 :lditional Recipes 229-230 Chutneys and Pickles. pricqt Chutney 231 nutney (1) 231 hutney (2) ; 232 , .Uiutney (3) 232 Damson Pickles 232 *>reen Chutney 233 L Indian Dry Fruit Pickle... 233 ^Indian Pickle 234 ^Pickled Onicjns 234 ; (Pickled Walnuts 235 ('Red Chutney 233 j^Rushmere Chutney 235 '^Additional Recipes 236-237 e Sweetmeats. Putter Toffee 238 P^herry Fondants 238 j?rJhocolate for Sweetmaking 23S Prpocoanut Ice 239 paCream Russian TolTee ... 239 StEverton Toffee 239 ^dviurrons Glaces 239 (Nougat 240 1 Popped Corn 240 Royal Icing 240 Russian Toffee (1) 241 BiRussian Toffee (2) 241 B Tangerine Creams 241 B Toffee 241 B Turkish Delight 242 C Additional Recipes 243-244 lees. t. Banana Ice 245 z. Coffee Ice Cream 245 r! Iced Pudding 245 ' Iced Coffee Granite 246 B uemon Cream Ice 246 p Raspberry Water Ice 246 * Strawberry Ice Cream ... 246 Vanilla Ice Cream 247 Additional Recipes 248-249 Beverages. PAGE Barley Water Lemonade ... 250 Champagne Cup 230 Gherry Brandy 250 Cider Cup 25 r Claret Cup 25t Curagoa 251 Damson Gin -. 251 Elder Flower Wine 252 Fruit Acid 232 Ginger Beer 232 Ginger Wine 233 Imperial Drink 233 Lemonade 253 Lemon Syrup (1) 253 Lemon Syrup (2) 234 Orange Brandy 254 Raspberry Acid 254 Sloe Gin 235 Strawberry Nectar 233 Additional Recipes 256 Miscellaneous. Albumen Water 257 Beef Tea (1) 257 Beef Tea (2) 257 Barley Cream for Invalids 258 Cream Cheese 238 Cough Mixture 258 Essence of Meat 258 Egg Panada 239 Furniture Polish 239 French Polish 259 Milk Toast 259 Pot Pourri (il 239 Pot Pourri (2) 260 Pot Pourri (3)1 261 Pot Pourri (4) 262 Porridge .’ 262 Raw Meat Juice 262 Savoury Custards 262 To Clean Glass Bottles, Decanters, etc 263 To Clean Paint 263 To Clean White Marble ... 263 To Prevent Beer Becoming Flat after it is Drawn ... 263 To Make Porridge 263 To Sweeten Rancid Butter 264Advert se merits Coco u To H.M. The King The ORIENT COMPANY’S PURE DEI CO(fc This delicious invaluable for P Dessert, Currie SANITARY POLISH To be had of all Grocers. Pug Wholesale only of OH 28 St. Mary at ForPIE CRUST, CAI The leading pro fill a (HUCON’S R Prepare Englii Sold REA1 * RONUK' LT? Cooked in milk slightly sweetened, is an excell(,_OT „, consumptive cases, where the latter is refused, or 1 nr. dKICjMIUN. Suet Puddings and Baked Rice Puddings, wit! one table-spoonful in a pint of milk—are very nouri Sold by Grocers and Dealers in HUQON Sc Co., Ltd., PcndleJin aid of the fund fc ements Index—co/ ( Preserves—con tinned. PAGE ^ To Bottle Green Goose- Ip, berries 227 iVegetabfe Marrow Jam ... 227 Jr.aB Apple Jelly 227 WHEAT FOODS. reen Gooseberry Jelly ... 228 ooseberry jelly 228 MJR1SH1NG. edlar Jelly 228 .’IP-l..™ nmeasurably superior to arrowroot. S u j1. 22” go, etc. With milk it forms exquisite (.Additional Recipes 229-230 i in the nursery it will prove a valuable flhntnpvc and PipVIpc ch children will take wi h avidity." b ^nuineys ana riCKieS. verpnol Medico-Chirurgical Journal g Apricot Chutney • 231 y.Chutney (1) 231 ^Chutney (2) 232 [Chutney (3) 232 h ml Damson Pickles 232 HJL. reen Chutney 233 m SBjxi Indian Dry Fruit Pickle... 233 mg farinaceous Mndian Pickle 234 , k;v fon Physician. -Pickled Omqns 234 Pickled Walnuts 23s Medals at the two important International Red Chutney 23s 1 in 1886—Edinburgh and Liverpool. jkushmere Chutney 235hly lefined preparation of Wheat, which 'Additional Recipes 236-237.iritive elements and fine flavour naturally e " est part of the grain. All irritating and Sweetmeats. has been removed by careful treatment, v[Butter Toffee 23<tnly be,ng emp'oyed. jCherry Fondants 23' will satisfy a robust appetite, but it is PjJhocolate for Sweetmaking 23ted f°r invalids and children. pjJocoanut Ice 231 Hs ^.f'rearn Russian Toffee ... 23|f gtpverton Toffee 23^ Aiviarrons Glaces 23J JNougat I 24J1 ^ T opped Corn 24®“ Royal Icing 24, constitution and Russian Toffee (1) 24trola, but is in the form of large granules, B Russian Toffee (2) 2Aore specially suited for making such dishes ■ r~ Steamed Pudding, etc. B Tangerine Creams 2. B Toffee 2, Wil! be sent on r.ceipl of Post Card. B Turkish Delight 2. C Additional Recipes 243-2 lees. 1 ALL (Glasgow), Ld. I Banana Ice 2 C Coffee Ice Cream .Hand Street, GLASGOW. £ Iced Pudding : Iced Coffee Granite ^ I uemon Cream Ice ^ ^ Raspberry Water Ice * Strawberry Ice Cream Vanilla Ice Cream Additional Recipes 248 ' 1vii AdvertisementsA dvertisements viii « COCOA FOR BREAKFAST. PLASMON COCOA—you can’t start the day better, especially if you fancy it’s going to be a trying day. The best breakfast drink, enjoyable, wonderfully nourishing. PLASMON COCOA is the choicest, purest, richest cocoa, combined with 60 per cent, of Plasmon Powder. You must try it for yourself to understand the food value of PLASMON Week's Trial will be convincing. COCOA. WHAT PLASMON IS: Plasmon Is the b part of the best milk, in the form of a taste, powder. It can be added to any food It enriches: nutritive value tenfold, and makes all food me digestible. Plasmon is the mainstay of health. / your Grocer for Plasmon Cocoa or Chocolate Plasmon Oats Plasmon Biscuits Etc., etc., etc. i?eoW. H. SMITH & SON PRINTERS 95 FETTER LANE LONDON, E.C.egg sauce, shrimp sauce or parsley sauce or. if vo i satisfactory: 5 not nearlJ’ so ^fcVISEP EDITION. WASTE NOT, WANT NOT. EG ON OMIT WSLL WSN THE WAR. Economy in Food M&arts Saving ©f Money. IMPORTANT NOTE. The Food Question has now become so urgent that, as a Nation, we shall have to consider the best wavs * of obtaining all available nourishment from fcods, and prepare every dish with that in view. Instructions in good methods of cooking are given jin these leaflets. It may be. however, that you have not all the materials mentioned, and that you have to work with very few pots and pans. Well, that is w si ere your cleverness will come in. You must “Make do” with what you have, and when you once know t anti simplify recipes to suit your own requirements. The shortage o. potatoes in the Spring of 1917 made UP all realise how dependent we have become upon potatoes as food ; it led to great activity on ail hands to place more lai d under cultivation of this most useful vegetable. Now the value of fhe nofnfo lime rhiafin :» *. . • . , ,, , , . r its mineral salts, and also in the fact that it provides bulk ; es to certain ways of cooking potatoes which deprive them value of the potato lies chiefly in the starch it contains, ir but unfortunately we, as a nation, have accustomed oursel of a great deal of their flavour and nourishing value. When potatoes are peeled and then cooked in boiling w!ater most of the flesh=forming nourishment passes into the vatei, and is iost when the water is thrown away. A welUknown authority on Food, Dr. Robt. Hutchinson, estimates that in a bushel of potatoes the loss of nourishing value When the potatoes are cooked in this wav is nearly equal to 1 lb. of beefsteak. WHY BUY POTATOES ONLY TO WASTE THEM? matter of practical experience. 7 (bs. of potatoes This surely is a saving worth they may be peeled thinly after A far better way is to steam potatoes in their skins, when, as a base been found to da the work of 8 lbs., besides retaining; all the delicious flavour, making. O. course, the potatoes must be well washed and scrubbed before cooking; cooking and before sending to table; this is a matter of taste. Even if you aie going to have mashed potatoes, steam .them in their skins before mashing, the flavour is ail the pr. A tin cfoamuM Fn £Z4- ^I, .. . ®® jfuidiucs., steam .mem :n tneir sicins oeiure masmng, me nav< better. A tin steamer to fit the saucepan is inexpensive, aid you will save its cost over and over again. i n < Till. potatoes-served a-s a -vEurriYnEE.r—mw'pamrogg Hints for Catering.—In preparing potatoes for ive as a vegetable, generally allow two good-sized potatoes for each person : choose potatoes of equal size, otherwise when cooking, some will be over- cooked and others undercooked. Polaloes Steamed in theirSkins.—Prepare asauce- pan of boiling- water with steamer attached. Clean wash and scrub the potatoes well, put them into the steamer and cook for about half-an-hour, 01 until the potatoes are soft, when pierced with a skewer, I,amove the steamer from the pan shake it until the potatoes are dry ; serve either in their ■skms or in a hot vegetable dish ; or, if preferred, they may be peeled before serving. Baked Potatoes, No. 1. —Wash and scrub the potatoes well, then dry and place them in a bokiim tin, and bake in a moderate oven about 11 to ~ Hours, according to size. Too fierce a heat will cause the potatoes to shrivel. Potatoes are im- proved by being steamed for about 20 minutes betoi e baking. Large potatoes are best for bakiug. Baki d Potatoes, No. 2—Steam the potatoes until the skins peel off easily. Rough the surface with a fork and sprinkle with a little flour and salt. lace the potatoes in a tin with two or three table- spoons of dripping. Baste often and cook until t lie potatoes are nicely brown and tender: it re- quires about 1 hour, including the steamim- If „ joint is being cooked, the flavour of the potato is greatly improved by being cooked under the joint with the dripping from the meat. J Mnsliei Potatoes. Steam the potatoes, remove ti e skins, mash the potatoes in a saucepan, nsiim .1 little milk and cooking fat (about 1 gill 0f milk and 1 oz.ot cooking- fat to about 2 lbs. of cooked potatoes) ; season to taste and serve very hot I otatoes may be mashed with a fork and wooden spoon, beating them up against the side of the saucepan, lhere is no reason why they should he lumpy it this process is carefully carried out A sieve or potato uiasher may be used if liked. ’ Fried Potatoes No. I.-Have ready a deep iron pail and a trying.basket with enough fat to cover w ell the potatoes m the frying-basket. Ilcat the ial. until it lias ceased bubbling, is quite still and a taint blue smoke can be seen (the bubbling shou « Hat the water m the fat has not yet evaporated. ..ml until it lias, the fat is not ready for use). Peel and cut the potatoes into thin slices or strips drv thoroughly in a clean cloth. Place them in small quantities at a time in the frying-basket and fry lor about .1 minutes until a golden-brown (too large a quantity put m at a time will cool down the fai ). After frying drain the pbttttdes thoroughly mi paper, sprinkle lightly with salt and serve hot it is always necessary to reheat the fat between the frying of each lot of potatoes. pared may be fried, if lineeessary, in a shallow trying-pan with sufficient fat to barely cover the thin slices. In this case also the fat must be first thoroughly heated as above directed, and only a few potatoes should be! fried at a time. Cold cooked potatoes may be sliced and fried in the same way. Sprinkle with a little salt after they are thoroughly drained and serve hot. They are known as " saute M potatoes. A Breakfast Disb. (Substitute for Bread) :— Mashed potatoes (see Recipe). A very little fat. Shape the potatoes into an oblong flat cake. Cut into finger lengths, and fry in hot fat till a golden brown. Drain and serve hot. LET POTATOES TAKE THE PLACE BREAD. OF When meat is being served, never serve bread with it, but always use potatoes cooked in one nf c mnire of the simple ways. There are here recipes for lunch and supper dishes. Bread-and-butter should never*be served with any of these dishes, because the potato supplies sufficient starch, and the fat is contained m most of the recipes. Where cheese, or eggs, or nuts are used in recipes, such dishes can be served as substitutes for meat. “—m i ,,i „[ i'y of., - potatoes, add a little chopped gar,ley'and season well. Turn this mixture on to a floured board, nil lightly into balls, coat either with milk and flour or egg and fine oatmeal or pea flour (dried egvs am quite suitable for this). Fry in deep fat (if passible, otherwise in shallow fat) until a golden brown. Directions for the use of dried e"-gs should be obtained where the eggs are bought, 'Is a ruie they require to be moistened with water and left to soak for some hours. Vakiation.—A variation of this recipe may be made lay addinglto every f lb. of mashed potatoes an ounce of grated cheese beaten in. Instead of form- ing this mixture into balls it may be put into small greased Ramakin eases, the surface roughed and a tiny Int of cooking- fat put on the top of each, and baked in a fairly quick oven for about 10 minutes. POTATO PASTRY. A A potato covering^ mr a p»e, suc}1 a3 -n. Jjuuttuu «t ]>u, SUCil US for Shepherd's Pie, should be used in preference to a flour crust for meat pies, kc. HOW TO STEAM WITHOUT A STEAMER. If you have not a steamer, use a basin pur in a saucepan containing boiling water. In this case cook them lor about ten minutes loner r Note I-Frymg in deep fat is not an extravanout method of cooking : it is. as a matter of fact a more economical method than shallow frying (when once yon have a sufficient supply 0f fat f provided the rat is cars ally strained off into an earthenware basin each tune after uslno- ic . fv, same fat can then be figKcllrepeatedlv ’ e fully in this way a « bath” oFfat should tel six months. Great care niust alwnv? ho 1 * to let the fat born, otherwise it will V,ot unpleasant flavour to anything ccoked g some houses where it is luuml diffi nh +-« the necessary amount of far. difficult, shallow fry in: must take A^a,r,lfre deep frying, but the result A not „ Pla.ce of USEFUL LUNCH 0! SUPPER FISHES MADE with potatoes. The lecipes lhat follow are planned to serve six persons : — Potato Pyramids or Poiato and Carrot Pyramids - STANDARD RECIPE : — To li 11)S. mashed potatoes, beat in 2 tablespoons flour. 2 tablespoons finely-chopped cooked onions,' 2 tablespoons grated cheese ; Add salt and pepper to taste and, if liked, a little curry powder. Shape into pyramids on a greased tin or a fire- proof dish and bake until nicely browned (about j hour). Variation.—A variation of this may he made by using :— rib. mashed potatoes and h lb. mashed and sliced cooked carrot. Potato Croquettes.—Standard Recipe: — To 1 ’ lbs. mashed potatoes work in 2 tablespoons flour, the yolk of one egc. Season well and shape inn 1 i: 11 e e§fn-$izc<Tro!K Flour them well and fry until a golden-brown colour. Variations.—Attractive variations to this may be made by adding one of the following :— 2 tablespoons finely-chopped cooked oniun . 2 tablespoons grated cheese or any minced meat or Hiked fish or cooked smoked haddock-: finely flaked or chopped. Stuffed Potatoes (another excellent way of using up small remains of meat, fish. kc.). Standard Recite.—ellipse large potatoes of uniform size and wash and scrub them well. Bake them, cut off a piece lengthwise and scoop out the inside of the potato. 3Iash this with a little cook- ing fat and milk, arid minced cooked meat or cooked flaked fish, anchovy or other sauce, such asfat. lie place the mixture in tlie potato mul cover with the piecs which have been previously re- moved* reheat and s rve hot. VAitiA t ions—A variation of this mav be made by lining1 the seooi cl out potato with the mashed potato mixture, then bre king a fresh egg carefully into the autre and baking until just set. This makes a substantial dish. A further variation would be to use a tillet of cooked iisli cover*il with well-flavoured white sauce instead of an egg. Potato and Cabbage Cakes.—Mix .j lb. mashed potatoes and $ lb. cooked and finely chopp. d cabbage ; season well, turn on to a floured board, roll into cakes of even size, flour and bake. Che se and Potato Pie.— 2 lbs potatoes, 1 egg or dri. d egg. I < z. cot king fat 1 1 oz. fl ur pint skimmed milk or Vf getable stock Salt, pepp' r Grated cheese lor flavouring. A little li e pea flour. Boil, peel and slice the potatoes ; hard boil and s’ice the eggs Make a white sauce as follows: Melt the margari in a pan, draw to the side of the fire, stir ii the Hour and mix well with the bade of a w out. sp un. Add gradually abmit one-third of the liquid, stir carefully till boiling Add the rest of ihe liquid gradually, stirring meanwhile ; bring to the bo 1. and hoil slowly lor about ten minutes. Season with pepper and sab and. lastly, add the grated cheese. Arrange the potatoes, egg a> d sauce in layers in a pie dish : finishing wiih a layer of sauce. Sprinkle with pen flour ; heaT in the. oven until brown. ft oto In aim st every recipe in which a starc hy food su h as macaroni, is used with cheese, the start by fa d ad vocal eel can be replaced by cooked potato : especially when potatoes are plentiful and cheap. To make white sauce. Savoury Potato and Tomato — 10 cold cooked potatoe s. £ lb. tomatoes. 1 <l cooking fat. silt, pepper, choppeu paisley. Cut the potato into slice-. Peel and slice tin tomato. Melt the fat in a pan, add the vegetables and season to t ste. Cook gently over the fire for 10 minutes, stirring now and then. Dish up and serve hot. Curried Potatoes :— 10 cold cooked potatoes. A large onion. 1 oz fat £ oz. flour. i oz curry powder. Juice of quarter a lemon, al t le sain. 2J gills of stock, ih ei and si ce the onion, fry it in the fat. Add the potatoes cut in cubes, toss these in the fat,add salt to taste, then r-prinkle in the curry powder and tne flour, add the stock ami lemon juice. Stew slowly over the fire for 15 minutes. Dish up and serve hoc Potato Salad.—Any cold cooked potatoes, a little cooked beetroot. 1 teaspoont'ul of chopped paisley, 2 tab espuonsful of s ilacl oil, 1 tablespoonful of vinegar, A cut onion, :} tcaspoouful of salt, \ teaspoon fu l pepper. Rub the inside of the salad-bowl or dish with a cut onion, just enoug i to give the salad the flavour, without maki g it too strong. Slice the potatoes and hiy them in the dish. Potatoes freshly cooked and sliced while warm are best for this. Put the salt and pepper in a small basin, add the vinegar, stir the oil to this very briskly, add the parsley ; pour over the potatoes, put the cooked beetroot as a garnish on tlm top. Note :—Equal quantities of potato, beetroot, carrot, turnip, all cooked and laid in the salad- bowl as ab >ve with a sauce poured over, makes an excellent salad. Slices of cooked potatoes are a useful addition to any green salad. To Prepare Beetroot.—In digging this vegetable up. and in washing it, care must be taken not to bruise the skin, or the juice will ran out and the colour be spoilt. Boil it for 1£ to 2 hours, till it feels soft to the touch. When cold, skin it and cut it into slices. D NNER DIS> ES (in which meat or beans are partly supplemented by potatoes). Meat and Potato Pie.— Tie— Pastry— | lb. meat (free 3 lb. flour, from bone), 3 ozs. cooking fat, 1.* lb. potatoes, J teaspoonful salt. 2 onions, Cold water to mix. Salt, pepper, water. For the Pie.—Peel and slice the potatoes and onions, cut the meat into small pieces. Fill a pie dish with alternate layers of potatoes, meat and onion, seasoning each layer with salt and pepper. Fill the pic dish J full with water, make the paste, roll it out and cover the pic. Bake in a hot oven for about l.\ hours. For the Pastry.—Mix the flour aud salt, rub in the fat with your perfeetly-cleau finger-tips, mix with water to a fairly stilt' p iste roll out and cover the pic, leaving a smali hole in the centre or at one side to allow the steam to escape. ftotc:—If the pastry i«, cooked before the con- tents of the pie, either (a) cover ic with a piece of well-greased or wet paper to prevent burning, or (b) a low the pie to finish cooking on the top of the o en, so that the m.-at cooks and the pastry does not. It is an improvement to fry the meat quite liehtly—just to brown it before putting it in the pie. Some extra Sauce is an improvement, for this use:— h oz. dripping, :i oz. flour, 1 onion (small). 1 pint s ock or water, Sal', pepper. ?kiu and mime linely the onion, melt the dripping and fry the onion aud flour until brown. Add -radu lly the liquid and seasonin, bring to the coil and simmer for about io minutes. The sauce may be steamed if dt sued. Note:—Any recipe for a inear pudding with a suei crust may be turned into a meat and potato pudding by using part meat and part potatoes. N' te Potatoes may also be used as a covering lor pies in place of pastry, example :— Hot Pot.—The potatces should be peeled thinly ind cut in slices, uncooked, p aced on the top of i he meat and vegetables and then cooked in the oven. cotlage Pie.—Potatoes should he mashed before putting on the top of either meat or lisii. Mashed potatoes may be used as a coating before frying. Irish Stew.—The method for making Irish stew ts given on another leaflet; it is only necessary to state here that meat and potato may be used in the proportion of twice as much potato as meat, and two small onioi s to every lb. of meat. The success of the dish depends on the slowness of the cookin/, ancl therefore on the length of the time allowed. To make it look very attractive t should be cooked and served in a lirepnof casserole. Meat and Potato Casserole.—Linii g for the casserole:— lb. mashed potato, 1 oz. cooking fat, 2 tablespoonsful flour, Salt and pepper. Mixture— i lb. minced cooked meat. 1 i gills thick brown sauce. Well grease a small casserole or, failing this, a plain cake tin, coat it with breadcrumbs, biscuit meal or oatmeal. M x the fat with the potato, season and line the tin with this mixtu e, leaving a cavity in the centre, and bake for about 20 minutes in a hot oven till brown. Heat tile mincerl meat and sauce together, season well. 'JLjtiru out the potato shape, ■mixture and serve hot. fill it with the hot meat Note :—The sauce may be made in the same way as the sauce in the last r :cipe. Nut and Potato Pie (mi y be put in scallop shells if preferred) :— A white sauce— l oz. fat, $ uz flour!. pint milk and water, Salt and jjepper ; A little made mustard, 1£ lbs. cooked potat) 3 oz*. mixed nuts (w 1 i tablespoons bread eiglied after shelling), c- umbs or fine oatmeal, Have ready a greased p e dish. Cut the potatoes cl or chop the nuts. Make Recife for Cheese and into small cubes ancl grin a white sauce as in th Potato Pie, season and add made mustard. Add all the ingredients to the sauce and mix well. Put the mixture into a pie di crumbs or oatmeal. Put margarine; on the top, an few minutes till brown. ih, sprinkle the top with a few very small bits of l bake in a hot oven for a Serve at once. pepper, a little water. made as lor Meat and Cornish Pasties :— h. lb. meat pieces (urilcooked) 2 or 3 potatoes (unctioked), 1 small onion, salt, p ii lb. of short crus Potato Pie. Wipe the meat, peel thte potato and onion. Cut the meat and potato into dice, chop the onion. Put the e together on a plu ;e, sprinkle the salt and pepper and moisten the mixture with a little water. Roll out the pas:e. divide it into six equil pieces. Roll toese into rounds. Put some of the mixture on each, wet tli* edges of the pasty, press them together, and form them into a f. ill over the top of the pastry. Baki in a moderate oven*J or about IO minutes. BAKED HE .RINGS WITH POTATOES. Potatoes are excellent cooked with the salted herrings now so plentiful; owing' to their neutral” flavour they modify the saltness of the To prepare the herri: clean them thoroughly and bone them in the following way. Remove the h« ads, open the fish the \ -hole length of the under- each side. Place on a cloth to cool, side from head to tail sp-eul the "back uppermost steam may be absorbed. on the board, pres* and rub up and down the whole length of the backbone till this is loosened from the flesh, when it may usually be lifted out whole with the ribs attached. Soak the fish overnight in cold water. Take ;— (J herrings, 8 potatoes, mustard sauce made.with | oz. flour, \ oz. fat. $ pint milk and water or fish stock, 1 teaspoonful made mustard, £ oz. grated cheese. Prepare a greased dish or scallop shells. Steam and peel the potatoes : break them up. B. il the herrings for 10 minutes. Make the mustard sauce in the same way as white sauce, an ding the mustard when the sauce is cooked, f Dke the herring, put all the ingredients in layers into the d.bli. leaving half the cheese to sprinkle over the top. Put in the oven till it is thoroughly hot through and browned on the t p. Potato I utter (I1.— 1 ozs. butter, margarine or beef dripping. ‘1 ozs potato (scrubbed, steamed and sieved). A t: aspoonful of salt Cream the batterer other fat thoroughly in a basin with a wooden spoon, and beat in the potato. When both are well mixed form into*pats aid serve. Potato Blitter (2).— 4 ozs. butler. 2 ozs. flour, •1 ozs putato (scrubbed, steamed and sieved), 2$ gilts mi le, .] teaspo.-n.fii0 salt. Melt half the butter and stir in the flour. Add the milk and Ding to the boil, stirring all the while. When it has boiled and cooked for .» minute-', remove from the fite. Allow to cool a little, and beat; in the potato and the remainder of the blitter gradually. Add the salt. Potato Toast.— 2 oz>. potato (scrubbed, steamed and sieved). 2 ozs. flour, t} teaspoonfui salt, | teaspooniul baking powder, | gill water. Mix the flour aid potato thoroughly'. Add the salt and the baking powder. M isten with the water and mix to a fairly stiff d ugh. Roll the parts out very thinly’, and cut it into squares- Place them on a biking sheet. Mark with the prongs of a fork and bake in the oven till a nice- light brown colour. B.vEAD MADE WITH FLOUR AND POTATOES. 7 Its. flour. 2^ lbs. potatoes (mealy'), steamed, peeled, mashed and sieved, 3 ozs. salt, About 4 pints tepid water, 2 ozs. yeast creamed with a little tepid water. Warm the flour. Add potatoes warmed and the salt, mix all well. Make a well in the middle, pour in the yeast mixed with half the water. Work in a little of the flour with the fingers to make a smooth batter. Sprinkle this with some of the flour from the sides. C ver with a cloth, and put to rise in a warm place for a { hour. When the sponge is full of bubbles, pour in the rest of the warm wa er and knead in the rest of the flour. Continue to knead until the dough is quite smooth and does not stick to the hands. Cub deeply across t:ie surface. Cover with a cloth, and leav * in a warm kitchen to rise all night. Make it into loaves. Place in a warm place for a short time. Bake for about an hour. Wholemeal Bread.— 2^ lbs. wholemeal floui li lbs. potaioos (raw). About i pint water, Wash and scrub the potatoes, then cut out the eye.-, and grate the potatoes without peeling them. Sift the flour into a mixing pan, make a well in the centre and place in the grated potatoes. Mix the yeast with a little tepid water into a thin paste add this and the salt to the potatoes, mix all, and stir in gradually' the remainder of water (just tepid), work into a dough, place it in a basin, cover with a damp cloth, and let it stand in a warm place for about half an hour, or until the dough has sufficiently risen. .Next knead it well un a floured board, divide it in o one pound shapes, and place them on a floured baking sheet or else into floured cake tins. Allow to prove for auother 15 minutes, then bake in an evenly-heated oven from 45 to 50 minutes. Potato Scones. 2 lb. potatoes, 1 pinch of salt. 1 oz. cooking fat, About 2 ozs. flour. 1 tablespoon of milk, i teuspoonful baking- powder. Cook, peel and mash the potatoes. Heat up the milk and melt tbe butter in it. beat this into the potato, add tbe baking powder, salt, and work in as much flour as the paste will take up. Roll out thickly, cut into rounds. Place on a floured baking- tin and cook over the fire for about 5 reunites on fo that the 1 oz. yeast, 1 teaspoonful salt. IMPORTANT note. Do not look at these recipes hastily, and say ‘ too expensive, too elaborate.” Study them, and you will see how helpful they are. You can always simplify them to suit your own requirements. They provide tithes for six persons. Less is required for smaller families. Copies of this pamphlet may be obtained at the office of the nearest Food Control Committee, or from the Ministry of Food, Grosvehor House, London, W.i.RESTAURANT OVERCHARGES. A message from the Qucem, expressing her interest in national kitchens, because «he feels certain that they will be of the greatest service to the country during the food difiieulty, was delivered by Lord Rhondda when he opened a kitchen at Poplar yesterday. He was satisfied that we were going to do great things with these kitchens. Alderman Spencer, the director, believed that \flfrhin two months there would be 1,000 throughout the country, and 2,000 within three months, if the equipment could be obtained. These kitchens were a war insurance, and how far they had come to stay he would not predict. But he hoped that when people got accustomed to them, and found that they could get food cheaper and better cooked, and with less trouble in horpe life, the habit would bo permanently established. They were put forward as a business propositioii on self- supporting lines, and for all classes. There would be nothing of the taint of oharity about them. THE LONG, STRONG ARM. We had had a good many complaints of high restaurant charges, said Lord Rhondda. They were being investigated and the whole matter was being looked into by the Ministry. The arm of the Food Controller was fairly long, and his grip fairly strong when it got hold. He wanted io interfere as little as possible with the business of the country, but if it was found that restaurants were making undue profits and charging extravagantly he would have to take the strongest action. Perhaps the Ministry might establish restaurants, and so help to bring down the charges. Lord Rhondda confessed that he had ex- pected that after he had been at the Minis try nine months he would be kicked out and hung on the nearest lamp-post. In- stead, the public had rallied to his sup port. The Ministry were not influenced bv any political consideration in granting a supplementary ration to manual workers. He gave up political ambition years ago, arid so long as he was Minister considera- tions of party polities would net weigh with his department one iota. He had been advised by the War Committee of the RoyaJ Society that manual workers re- quired it, and that brain workers did not. If an equal weight of evidence was brought on the other side he would re- consider his decision. There were now 47 national kitchens in London, 75 in Greater London, and. 250 in the whole of the country. Condensed Milk Controlled. All canned condensed milk which is in O reat Britain and in the hands of manu- facturers at the close of business, on March 31 will be taken possession of by the Food Controller. After April 1, occupiers of 'every factory or workshop engaged either wholly or partly in the manufacture of con- densed milk must place the whole of their output at his disposal. HOME RATIONS. ■DAILY MENUS AND PRACTICAL COOKERY HIN1S. By Mrs. Alfred Praga. Sweets for Two or Three. Delioious Milk emitting.—Half a pint o touk, flavoured with a few drops of esscnc ot vanilla or lemon, and a- tablespoonful o wen-washed nee will make a delicious pud dins tor two, if tbe dish is thicklv lined wit] honey or syygar. or. when it can be sot. jap or golden syrup. If you have no rice us t*o tab 1 espoonsful of fine, stale crumbs o tour tablespoons!'ul of previously cockec oatmeal or maize. Sago or tapioca can als be used instead of rice. Xot=>: If you wan ** pudding cooked to perfection plac i co piedisri in t-lie oven in a baking-tin balHOME RATIONS. DAILY MENUS AND PRACTICAL COOKERY HINTS. By Mrs. A If fed Praga. Sweets for Two or Three. Delicious Milk Pudding.—Half a, pint of (milk, flavoured with a, few drops of essence of vanilla or lemon, and a- tablespoonful of well-washed rice will make a delicious pud- ding for two, if the dish is thickly lined with honey or syjigar, or. when it can be got, jam or golden syrup. If you have no rice use two tablespoonsful of fine, stale crumbs or four tablespoonsful of previously cooked oatmeal or maize. Sago or tapioca can also l>e used instead of rice. Note: Tf you want *. milk pudding cooked to perfection place, the piedish in the oven in a baking tin half full of boiling water. Cook very slowly for 2} hours, then finish on the hot rack for half an hour. Short Pastry.—Add a.pinch of salt to 6oz. of self-raising flour. Then add by degrees just- enough oil (frying oil will do if you cannot get salad oil) to mix to a rather stiff paste, roll out and use. This makes 9t delicious and very short pastry. If you cannot get jam, use sypgar as a filling, or hones', and grate*a little nutmeg on top. or nse tinned pineapple, cut small arid made hot in a basin in the oven. Date Tart.—Four to 6oz. of Tates, stoned *,nd stewed gently in a, little milk. No sugar required. When very soft ami boiling hot use to fill the tart. Strawberry Apples.—A sweet which does not need cooking 13 strawberry apples. Wash two apples. Dry well. Cut a small lid off the top of each. Scoop out nearly <wl the inside, leaving the outside intact. Mix the pulp with, a tablespoonful of straw- berry syrup and replace it. If y<iu want to make the sweet more substantial, mix a, dessertspoonful of rice with the apple pulp And syrup if you cannot get jam. New Way With Rioe.-Try this French way »r serving rice. Well wash and cook 4oz. of rice till very tender. Drain ofi' the water. Do not throw it away, use for the day's «oup. Add a full quarter of a bottle of strawberry or raspberry syrup to the rice. IWix well. If you can get it, add a little (grated oocpannt on top and serve. This is equally good, hot or cold. Maize meal, is excellent cooked in the same way. A Bread Sweet.—Try this sweet when you. jiave nothing .but bread in (he house. «» of spoonful of milk. Half a bottle of straw- !>frr? ®yrn£ Mix- . Pile UIJ high in centre of dish. Pom’ a little more syrup round base.: serve. No ono will ever guess its flvigm. To-morrow: Meals for One. WAR-TIME GARDENING. BROAD BEANS THAT WILL GROW ANYWHERE. The only beans that it is safe to sow out of pool's at present (this iu reply to several readers) are the broad beans. The first Rowing of these should have been made in ■Iannary, if not last autumn; the subsequent. Rowings may be continued with advantage up to mid-April. Broad beaus will, roughly speaking, grow anywnore; good crops cam be obtained from' stiff clay, if it has boen well broken, or from very light and poor soils. In the latter oase, however, the beans should be well watered when in active growth, and, if possible, mulched with short manure aud j'lven a tew doses of liquid fertiliser of some sort. Sow the seed 2in. deep, from 6 to 9in, apart, in rows a foot or more apart. The broad bean will ripen easily where ft grows, and can then be stored for winter use. I11 a wet autumn it may be necessary to dry the later beans in the kitchen oven or over the range. Scalded or soaked iu water for a few hours these dried beaus T112.K© excellent soups or a plea-sant changre vegetable. BOTANICUS. GIRLS RIGHT TO RATION CARD. & young woman told Mr. Canceilor yes- terday 'that she recently left hqtae, and that her father now refused to let her have her food ration card. The magistrate directed a police officer to warn the father that he was placing himself in a serious position, and that if he declined to giv& up the ticket, a summons would he jggaexU 1Mio request i Dr. E i Z . °N F°OD SAVING *u ‘t“”“ "’,”c'‘ ®- Spt'» ■»«!<«. I ^&^3» s£’ Hir-r*- - —. I ' f°'vn the Sinlt p®/?od a,'d none of „ We ncc°r<J- !■ ? -»I o„, ■ HQJ PareoW IU *3SSrr« -r There is a. grea^ £ Week. Were a£ ‘l a “P®. a"°tment i°JdiSe£dpoofcfc^M in Cheshire. COLLOTYpp oat- MnnOL BCt A corresnondent urr- f J ^AJCEg for niy mktrvl , Writes :—r hnn 5T-~ ^uucype caJ.o „ I. «?»»«« .£?3s- Of eolden ,hen add 00 to )ve index reads If the reading ad been 740,600, umption would jbic feet. Read and check waste. CDAILY home rations. MENUS AND PRACTICAL COOKERY HINTS. By Mrs. Alfred Praga. Cookery for Hard-op Households. Carrot and Sausage Stew.—41b. sausages, lib. carrots. 41b. onions, 21b. or 51b. potatoes. Pcrape and slico carrots, peel onions and potatoes. Cool! till very tender. Drain; reserve. Boil sausages for 30 minutes >n the water catrots and onions were cooked in; d-ain Put an ounce of any kind, of fat in a pan; melt; add sausages. Fry to a golden brown.. Take out, keep hot. Add a tahle- ■ spoonful of flour to the fat. in the pun; fry for five minutes. Add by degrees half a I pint of the vegetable water; boil up. Bon- tinue boil ins for a full eight minutes; add t the vegetables. Mi::; season to taste. Slice j the sausages; mix in. and serve. Note.— 1 ne U water from the vegetables and sausages ( makes an excellent soup if thickened with | oatmeal or barley flour. Seamen’s Pic.—A coupon’s worth of cheap- est beef, a coupon’s worth of suet. lib. carrots, two large onions, 21b. potatoes, Jlbi . flour. Peel and slice carrots, onions and; I potatoes; rook together in a Very little I water; drain; season Chop into squares I roughly: cook a little. Mix in the minced1 II beef; season to taste with pepper, salt, a pinch of sieved sweet herbs, and a little I grated lemon rind. Put into a large basin, cover with the suet crust. Boil for 54 hours. Bread and Meat Pie,—lib. stale bread, ono coupon's worth of any kind of meat or liver, 21b. potatoes, 21b. carrots. Boil the carrots and potatoes, mash, the potatoes with a little of the carrot water. Bun carrots through mincer , run meat through mincer. Peel and chop *lb. of onions. Put the mashed potato. &c„ in a dish; arrange the. mince on top. Pour tiie hot vegetable water over the . stale bread; leave till soft, squeeze dry. t Add the onions to the bread with a heaped | spbjinful of chopped parsley or a quarter ; ieaspc.onful of sieved sweet herbs. Season to < ).:;stc with pepper and salt; beat up well. ! ll possible, ad 1 2oz. of minced suet or fat. ■ will) the mixture. Scatter a ■ur atoned nr oat-crumbs on top. tit ;i. few bi;.».-.’ dripping on .top. Bake in Moderate oven • ;r gold.-.'.! brown, and serve, /biorrow: War:7ir.i Purlding3 for Children. iad your ster. on to the top ing the four in their order, the figures in^ s. \en two fi| the L -\ 9 and 0 always iveIn the “ Berliner Tageblatt ” Capta Persius deals again with the U boat pr blem, and in between the lines there is good deal of pessimism to be noticed. I places the available world tonnage thirty-seven millions, and the sinkirn during the year, he says, amount to eig. million tons. '“Each can draw the co elusion for himself,” the captain declar-B cautiously, “regarding the further dun I tion of the struggle at sea.” He then warns the people against thinl I ing England can be starved, and conclude I by advocating peace by agreement, wit | the remark :—" An understanding ougi to be easier, now that we have heard froi two opposing sources, from von Jagow an Lichnowsky, that England was not respoi sible for the war, n.s hitherto has been be lieved in wide circles in Germany.” GEORGE RENWICK. TRUTH FROM ESSEN. HERR MUHLON’S INDICTMENT O GERMANY. Herr Muhlon, an ex-director of Krupp': whose revelations as to the Kaiser’s re sponsibility for bringing about the wa recently appeared, lias now given fo publication to the Paris Socialist journe “ L’Humanite ” a. remarkable letter quote ia ye star day's “Times.” The letter wa addressed from Berne on May 7 to Herl von Bethmaon-Hollweg, then Imperial Chancellor. It is as follows :— 1 Since the first days of 1917 I hav abandoned all hope as regards the preseu directors of Germany. Our offer of peac without indication of our war aims, th accentuation of the submarine war, hr deportations of Belgians, the syster.ati destruction in France, and the torpedoing o English hospital ships have sodegraded tn< .governors of tlie German Empire that I an ■ofoundl.v convinced that they are o: mialificd for ever for the elaboration hr conclusion of a- sincere and just agreem 1 In- personalities may change, but they- nor, remain the representatives of the man cau.-J\ e (<; in i. ■' em \i *y* JDial — CUBIC ret t -v How to Read your Gas Meter. PAY no attention to the top dial. Taking the four lower dials in their order, write down the figures in- dicated by the hands. If the hand is between two figures, always write down the lowest—if the hand is between 9 and 0 always write down 9. Then add 00 to the end. The above index reads 751,900 cubic feet. If the reading of a month before had been 740,600, the month’s consumption would have been 11,300 cubic feet. Read your meter regularlyand check waste.(Copyright)JL THE USE Of a GAS COOKER With some useful Recipes for Making Bread, Jam and Marmalade at Home.