17 rudiment of the heart begins by the principal vessel dilating at a point into a little pouch or sac, and thus we have the circulatory system of certain Crustacea and arachnides. The sac, at first single, is next separated into two cavities, by a transverse septum proceeding inwards from the sides ; or, as Meckel states, by a second dilation taking place from the bottom of the primary sac, the first being the auricle, the second the ventricle. Here we have what is termed a single heart, such as is found in fishes. This is now to become a double heart, and that object is attained by two perpendicular septa being formed, by which each auricle and each ventricle is divided into two. That of the ven- tricles first appears, and if it be arrested in its formation, we have the heart of some of the superior reptiles, where this septum remains incomplete. Lastly, the septum of the auricles is formed, but not until after birth is it com- pleted, a large opening remaining, which is known as the foramen ovale. At this stage of the development the cir- culatory system of the foetus is analogous to that of am- phibious animals, where the auricles constantly communi- cate for certain purposes connected with their respiration. Here again we occasionally find the development arrested in the human subject, and a very distressing disease fol- lows the non-completion of the auricular septum after birth. With regard to the great vessels, we find the aorta forms a distinct trunk before the pulmonary artery appears, and during the entire period of uterine life the two vessels communicate by the ductus arteriosus. Thus in several reptiles we have two aortae arising from the ventricle, which, after a short trajet, unite into a single trunk, and in some animals, such as the tortoise, the aorta and pulmonary artery always communicate by a large canal. In the num- ber and disposition of the vessels, we find varieties corres- ponding to the different kinds of animals; and thus it happens, that in the human subject the natural order is frequently departed from, and that followed which belongs c