16 dition it presents in intestinal worms. Subsequently it becomes open at one end, while it remains closed at the other, whereby the analogy is established between it and the intestinal tube of zoophytes. Here, again, we find the development occasionally arrested, and children come into the world with an imperforate anus. The inferior extremity, opening at a more advanced period, gives it the character common to the higher animals. Further, the length of the intestinal tube in the first periods is not greater than that of the body, as is observed in the inferior animals. It is also of the same diameter throughout its whole extent, presenting no enlargement corresponding to the stomach or ccecum, no division into small and large intestines; and these are the conditions which it preserves, not only in the very lower animals, but in fishes. The liver, at first, is composed of little pouches, as is found in the Crustacea, where they are called caeca; these become loosely connected, as in the muUusca, and it is from their union subsequently, that the solidification of the organ results. The spleen is at first altogether wanting, as in the invertebrated animals, and it is only after birth that it acquires its volume. When we next direct our attention to the circulatory system, we observe that the several stages in its develop- ment are equally striking and curious.* In the first mo- ments, when the fcetus presents a semifluid mass, no vessels are discernible; the fluids circulate in canals grooved in its substance, as is the mode of circulation in certain zoophytes, as the medusa. A principal vessel next appears, a sort of aorta, in which the blood moves to and fro, as in worms, where no heart can be said to exist. Advancing farther, the * An excellent memoir upon the Development of the Circulatory System has been lately published by Dr. Thompson, Jun. of Edinburgh. Had I entered more fully into the subject of development, I should have found great assistance from his very philosophical and ingenious views.