14 is left in front. In another instance, instead of passing in front of, and covering in the abdominal contents ; they shall pass behind the latter, so as to leave the intestines exposed. Again, it is by no means unusual to have the central line behind the spine, stopped in its formation, whereby the contents of the vertebral canal protrude, and constitute that disease called Spina Bifida. All single organs are in the first instance double, and it is by their union in the centre that they become symmetrical. Thus, the diaphragm is at first double ; the oesophagus, trachea, and intestinal canal are all in the beginning composed of two plates or laminae, which unite by their borders, and thus form these several tubes. It is by this process that the several foramina and canals are produced ; the ele- mentary pieces which compose a part in uniting, leave spaces or holes between them, and these are afterwards occupied by the vessels which pass through. Thus, the lateral halves of the diaphragm in uniting, leave the great openings for the passage of the aorta, vena cava, and oesophagus, and in a similar way are produced the several foramina of a bone. M. Serres, to whom we are indebted for the discovery of these curious facts, calls the prniciple of the double development of organs, the law of sym- metry, and that of the union of the elementary pieces, the law of conjunction. But to proceed with the several grades or degrees of development and their analogies. We shall find a beautifiil illustration of these laws, in the formation of the most perfect and most complex of all beings, —the human subject. The foetus, in the first moments of existence, occupies the very lowest rank, and is perfectly analogous with the most degraded animal: from day to day it acquires new qualities, which ele- vate it to a higher grade, and thus successively its or- ganization improves, until, eventually, it acquires those characters which distinguish intellectual man. Commenc- ing with its external form or shape, we find, that in the