20 the fourth month, however, it gradually ascends, so as to have its inferior extremity opposite to the base of the sacrum; at the fifth month it is on a level vvith the fifth lumbar vertebra; at the seventh and eighth it corrresponds to the fourth, and at birth, to the third lumbar vertebra, where it remains for life. In the frog, when it changes from the tadpole state, a similar phenomenon occurs: at that period the animal acquires its posterior limbs, and at the same time loses its tail by that appendage dying, as it were, and dropping off. The spinal marrow, however, escapes by elevating itself in the vertebral canal, in a manner similar to what thus occurs in the human foetus. During this time the upper extremities of the chords which occupy the head, approach and unite as in the lower animals, where they form a ring round the oesophagus. A little below this point of union, indentations appear where the chords further approximate, and a similar junction between their borders occurring as in the spinal marrow, we have a series of sacs or vesicles formed, the rudiments of the constituent portions of the brain. These are the cere- brum, the optic lobes, the cerebellum, and the medulla oblongata. A longitudinal line, where the lateral parts have united, divides them into equal portions. If the develop- ment is not intended to proceed further, the solidification advances to the necessary degree, and we have a brain analogous to that of a fish or a reptile. But in a bird it is destined to be more perfect, and we' consequently find, that the development proceeding, the cerebrum rapidly enlarges, and, passing in the direction backwards, covers in, first the optic lobes, and subsequently the cerebellum. The latter increases also in volume, and as it proceeds forwards, the optic lobes are compressed between it and the cerebrum, so that they appear to diminish in size. Such, with the omission of a few particulars, is the degree of development at which the brain of a bird is destined to arrive. In the higher animals it is carried to greater perfection; and not only are