13 shape is infinitely more rapid in assuming its proper characters, than any organ or portion of the system. At no period therefore, will a human foetus, for example, be found, in its totality, analogous to any animal whatsoever; for at any particular epoch of its development, one organ may place it in a low rank, while another may elevate it to a high rank. In this order we find the more perfect animals passing in their formation through a series of phases or degrees of development corresponding to the permanent conditions of the lower. But, before proceed- ing to details, it may not be unnecessary to make a few observations upon formation generally. We observe, that not only the entire body, but each individual organ, passes, in the progress of its development, from the fluid, to the solid state. Now, the solidification commences at the surface of the organ, and proceeds in- wards, and in this phenomenon we have a grand and capital distinction established between the two great divisions of matter; in the one unorganized, the progress of formation being from the centre to the circumference; while in the organized, it is from the circumference to the centre. This order is observed, not only as respects organs individually, but also in their aggregate. Thus, the brain, which in the commencement is fluid, becomes solid; first, at its circumference; and last, at its centre. The parts which constitute its surface appear first, those which form its centre, last. In the development of the skull, we find the formation of its lateral walls to pre- cede that of its central portion, before and behind. In the chest the ribs and intercostal muscles first present themselves, and not till after them, the sternum. The cavity of the abdomen is formed by the lateral muscles, which appear first, proceeding inwards towards the central line, where they meet before and behind. And here we find the development occasionally arrested or perverted ; the abdominal muscles in certain cases would seem to stop in their progress forward, and thus a space or vacuity