19 exposed by the broad light thrown upon the subject by the laws of development. In the words of a French author, " L'Horame est une Intelligence servie par des organes," and the brain is the material organ through which that intelligence manifests itself. But in the pro- gress of its formation, before the body generally has acquired the perfection of the human being; before it becomes capable, as it were, of being the vehicle of mind, the brain passes, like other organs, through its several degrees or phases of development, each of which cor- responds to its permanent condition in the lower animals respectively. In followino; these changes, the examination of the incubated chick affords us the most satisfactory information. So early as the twentieth hour of incuba- tion, in the human foetus, not until the fourth week the rudiments of the spinal marrow present themselves in the form of two white chords running down, one on each side of the central line of the body. In this condition we have the analogy established between the higher classes at this period of their development, and the permanent condition of the lower, as insects, worms, &c., where the nervous system consists in two such nerves, occupying the body in its whole length, and only communicating at the extre- mity. These chords soon approximate towards each other, and, coming in contact, unite by their anterior borders, leaving a furrow or groove behind. They next meet by their posterior borders, and thereby a canal is formed running the whole length of the spinal chord. In this state the spinal marrow of the foetus is analogous to that of birds, reptiles, and fishes; this canal soon becomes obliterated by nervous matter being deposited within it, whereby the organ acquires the solid form it presents in the higher classes. In man, about this period, an extra- ordinary occurrence takes place in the ascent of the spinal marrow. Prior to this epoch the human foetus presents a caudal prolongation or tail, and the spinal marrow occu- pies nearly the whole length of the vertebral canal. About