22 Counsellors of the Colleges of Physicians being associated with the Universities in the examinations for M.D.* I have been told that Glasgow will suffer by any change which may take place, in consequence of the interested jobbing which Edinburgh has already exercised with Government. But, notwithstanding all the malevolence of Edinburgh Reviewers, of College monopolists, with the et ceteras of calumny heaped on the heads of the profession in Glasgow, I rejoice in this species of argumentum, ad absurdum ; my opinion * The University of Edinburgh has lately followed the very consistent conduct of that of Glasgow, and enacted that the tickets of private lecturers in London and Dublin shall be received by them in obtaining the degree of M.D.; and the reason assigned for the rejection of the tickets of private lecturers in Edinburgh and Glasgow, has been, one which the University of Glasgow never dared to give, viz., that the above metropolitan private lecturers were elected, whereas, those of Edinburgh and Glasgow were self-elected. I should like to be informed by whom these first have been elected, and the manner of their election. It is now my duty, at the same time, to inform the Senate of the University of Edinburgh, that the Professors of Anderson's University, Glasgow, are subjected to an ordeal more severe, and to an election far more democratic than any in the three kingdoms. The electors being eighty-one in number, composed of nine classes, of nine electors in each class,—the clergy, lawyers, and medical men being twenty-seven in number—the classes of merchants, manufacturers, engineers, &c. &c. in and around tho city, make up the rest. If this species of appointment is exceeded by any hero or elsewhere, I am much mistaken, and tho existence of it establishes a strong claim in favour of the Professors of this University being recognised both by Edinburgh and Glasgow Universities in graduation, as they have long been by tho other Universities in the kingdom. But tho fact must be told in spite of all Mr. Syme's tmpcurte assertions ; tho Senates of both the above Universities wish to obtain as many graduates as they can, and, at tho same time, they try to prevent competition in lecturing when it comes near their own door—they fear such rivalry; knowing well that if their baneful monopoly were abolished, many among them might lecture to empty benches.