Vll the Royal Society be requested to organise the Central Bureau, and to do all necessary work, so that the preparation of the Catalogue might be commenced in 1901. Mainly in consequence of representations made by the German Government, in order to reduce the cost of the enterprise the Pro- visional International Committee agreed to recommend that the Catalogue should at the outset be of a more restricted character than was contemplated by either the first or the second Conference, that is to say, that the issue of a card catalogue should be postponed, and that the number of subject entries should be kept within narrow limits. A third International Conference was held in London on June 12 and 13, 1900. This was attended by accredited representatives from Austria, Cape Colony, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Natal, New Zealand, Norway, Queensland, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The report of the Provisional Inter- national Committee appointed at the second Conference was considered, and also a detailed scheme for the publication of the Catalogue which had been prepared, at the request of the Committee, by the Royal Society. The statements made by the delegates of various countries as to the extent to which they were authorised to promise contributions towards the expenses of the Catalogue being satisfactory, it was resolved to take further steps towards the publication of the Catalogue ; and for this purpose, pending- the appointment of an International Council, the Conference again appointed a Provisional International Committee. This Committee met at the conclusion of the Conference, and after- wards continued its deliberations through the agency of the Royal Societ}'. All difficulties were finally removed by the Royal Society undertaking to act as the publishers of the Catalogue on behalf of the International Council, thereby giving the necessary legal status to the undertaking, and also to advance the capital required to start the enterprise on the understanding that this should be repaid during the ensuing five years. The supreme control over the Catalogue is vested in an International Convention. Such a Convention is to be held in London in 1905, in 1910, and every tenth year afterwards, to reconsider, and, if necessary, to revise the regulations for carrying out the work of the Catalogue ; but the approved Schedules ai-e not to be altered during the first period of five years. In the interval between two successive meetings of the Convention the administration of the Catalogue is vested in an International Council, the members of which ai-e to be appointed by the Regional Bureaus. The first meeting of the International Council was held in London on December 12, 1900, when it was decided to commence the preparation of the Catalogue from .lanuaiy 1, 1901. At this meeting an Executive Committee was appointed, consisting of the delegates of the Royal Society and representatives of the four largest subscribers— the United States of America, Germany, France, and Italy. The materials out of which the Catalogue is formed are to be furnisiied by Regional bureaus. A 3