vi It was unanimously resolved that it was desirable to compile and publish, by means of an international organisation, a complete Catalogue of Scientific Literature, arranged according both to subject matter and to authors' names, in which regard should be had, in the first instance, to the requirements of scientific investigators, so that these, might find out, with a minimum of trouble, what had been published on any particular subject of enquiry. It was agreed that the material should, as far as possible, be collected in the various countries by local organisations established for the purpose, and that the final editing and publication of the Catalogue should be entrusted to a Central International Bureau, acting under the direction of an International Council. It was agreed to establish the (Central Bureau in London. Although the question of the method to be adopted in classifying the subject matter of the several sciences was discussed at great length, no decision other than one adverse to the Dewey system was arrived at. The Royal Society was requested to appoint a Com- mittee to take this and many other questions of detail left undecided by the Conference, into consideration. As the result of the arduous labours of this Committee, complete schedules were prepared for each of the sciences to be catalogued, and a financial statement was also prepared showing the estimated cost of the Catalogue. The report of the Committee was considered at a second Conference, held in London on October 11-13, 1898, which was attended by accredited repi-esentatives from Austria, Belgium, Cape Colony, France, Germany, Hungary, India, Japan, Mexico, Natal, the Mether- lands. New Zealand, Norway, Queensland, Sweden, Switzerland the United Kingdom, and the United States. At this meeting the conclusions arrived at by the first Conference were generally confirmed, and much progress was made in deciding the principles to be adopted in preparing the Catalogue. Full schedules for the several sciences, which had been prepared by the Committee of the Royal Societj'^, were laid before the delegates. Ultimately, after prolonged discussion, it was decided to adopt an arbitrary combined system of letters, numbers, and other symbols, ada) ited in the case of each branch of science to its particular needs. A Provisional International Committee was appointed to settle authoritatively the details of the schedules. The financial position was fully discussed, but no definite conclusions could be arrived at. The delegates attending the meeting were requested to obtain further information on the subject in their respec- tive countries, and to report to the Provisional International Committee. The Provisional International Committee met in London on August 1-5, 1899. The Committee had arranged for the co-option of an Italian and a Russian member, and M. Th. Koppen attended as the representative of Russia. The reports received from various countries were considered. Schedules for the seventeen branches of science to be included in the Catalogue were approved for adoption. The financial position was again verj fully considered, especitdly in relation to the establishment of tiie Central Bureau; and it was finally resolved to recommend that