Vlll Regional Bureaus have already been established in Austria, Belgium, Canada, Cape Colony,Denmark,Egypt,France,Great Britain and Ireland, Germany, Greece, Holland, Hungary, Italy, India and Ceylon, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, New South Wales, Norway, Portugal, Poland, Queensland, Russia, South Australia, Sweden, Switzerland, the United States of America, Victoria, Western Australia, Finland. The branches of Science to be included in tlie Catalogue are the seventeen following:— A—Mathematics B —Mechanics C —Physics D—Chemistry E—Astronomy F—Meteorology (including Terrestrial Magnetism) G—Mineralogy (including Petrology and Crystallography) H—Geology J —Geography (Mathematical and Physical) K—Palaeontology L—General Biology M—Botany N—Zoology 0—Human Anatomy P—Physical Anthropolog}-- Q—Physiology (including experimental Psychology, Pliarmacology and experimental Patiiology) R—Bacteriology Each complete annual issue of the Catalogue thus consists of seventeen volumes. The price at which this set is sold to the public is £18. Individual volumes are sold at prices varying with their size from about ten to thirty-nine shillings. A Schedule of Classification and an Index thereto are pre- fixed to each volume in English, French, German, and Italian. This will not only enable the scientific worker to study the system of classification in the language with which he is most familiar, but also in cases of doubt—e.g. as to the meaning of a word—will enable him to I'efer to the corresponding- entry in another language. Should there be a marked discrepancy among the schedules on any point the English schedule is to be taken as guide, the schedules pi'inted in that language being those which were approved by the International Council. The various headings and sub-headings throughout the Subject Index aie given in English. Translations of the main headings can be found on reference to the schedules in the other languages by means of the registration numbers that are attached to them. The entries in the Subject Indexes are in the language of the original paper when that is one of the following five languages: Latin, English, French, German, and Italian. These are the only languages used in the Subject Index, but in case of translation the name of the language of the original is inserted within round brackets. In the Authors' Catalogue each title is given in the original language. When, however, that language is not one of the five