A 2 PREFACE. The International Catalogue of Scientific Litekature, com- mencing with the literature of the year 1901, is an outgrowth of the Catalogue of Scientijic Papers relating to the scientific literature of the nineteenth century, published by the Royal Society of Loudon. The suggestion to catalogue scientific papers may be traced back to Prof. Henry, of Washington, U.S.A., who brought the subject under the notice of the British Association for the Advancement of Science at its meeting in Glasgow, in 185.5. The history of the incep- tion of the enterprise is recorded in the first volume of the Catalogue of Scientific Paj^ers issued by the Royal Sociely in 1867. Twelve large quarto volumes have been printed in which the titles of papers published during the period 1800-1883 are aiTanged under authors' names. A subject index, which will serve as a key to these volumes and also form an independent record, is in an advanced state of preparation. A catalogue of the scientific papers published during the period 1884-1900 is now being prepared by the Royal Society of London. The possibility of preparing a complete index of current scientific literature by international co-operation was first taken into considera- tion by the Royal Society about the year 1893. It had long been apparent that the work was beyond the resources of the Society, or indeed of any single body. Moreover, it was felt that an authors' catalogue could not supply the required information, and that it was essential that scientific workers should be kept fully and quickly informed of all new discoveries by means of complete subject indexes. International co-operation appeared to be the only means of canying out such a work with the necessary completeness and rapidity. The Society therefore sought the opinion of a very large number of representative bodies and individuals abroad; and, as the replies were almost uniformly in favour of the work being undertaken by international co-opeiation, steps were taken to summon aii Liternational Conference of Delegates appointed by various Governments. The Conference took place in London on July 14-17 1896, and was attended by delegates from Canada, Cape Colony, Denmark, Prance, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Natal, the Netherlands, New South Wales, New Zealand, Norway, Queensland, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.