AT M'INTYRE’S SMART TAILOR=MADE COSTUMES A.T J?OE»TJL,AK J*121C’i:S ents that will give every satisfaction ict Shapes & Best of Finish guaranteed As :RY SMART TAILOR-MADE COAT We shall gladly return your money if goods are not in every respect as advertised. 6^*!'-—5 LETTER ORDER DEPARTMENT Orders by Letter from Town or Country receive Special and prompt attention. Remittance with Order. Measurements required to guarantee correct fit are—Bust Measure under Arms, Waist Measure, Length of Skirt in Front. All Goods packed m a Nice Box, Carriage Paid. Fittiii" Back, with Chesterfield Front; Lenyfth of . -Goo.t, 30 inclie.s ; in Plain Cloths, Shrunk. Shade^r^ ' hi^ht and Mid Navy, Myrtle Green, Lifflit aji<TMid itrown, also Blacks. Coat lined Silk ; Skirt lined Cinenette ; Bust, 36 to 40. Skirt, 40 to 44. A Delight- ful Fitting Garment, and Finished in the very Best of Style. Price 33sm 6eim M‘INTYRE & COMPANY 37. 39, & 41 NiGOLSON ST., EDINBURGH ' ■ / '641.5 I LAM ' -- T:/ CONTENTS. Editor’s Note Preface .... Sours ..... Fish ..... Mear Dishes .... Sauads and Vegetables Sauces, P2tc. .... Puddings, Sweets, and Pastry Creams and Jellies ■ Savouries .... Cakes and Baking - Preserves, Etc. Sweets ... Invalid Cookery Miscellaneous Household Hints Provisions in Season What’s What? Equivalent Weights and MeasuresTHE 550 870842 c -r \ /I I IM r; London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NWS 3HA rr Tel: 01 278 4444 Extensions: ■-Book-^newals 3021 Lending Library 3012 This book IS due .for return orrgT^fbre the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5 25, 33...32 LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden A LA/V) 30106023337099Some hae meat and canna cat, An i some would edt that want EDITOR'S NOTE. 0- J ET me thank the many friends, known and unknown to me, for the help they have given in compiling this little book. Of these, tivo in particular I wish to mention, C. Herman Senn, Hon. Director of Universal Cookery and Food Association, London, and Author of '‘'‘Practical Gastronomy''; and James Knight, M.A., B.Sc., Glasgow, Author of “ Food and its FunctionsL The recipes sent in were too nutnerous to be all accepted. In some cases, where two or more were very similar, I combined them, and attached no initials or fictitious ones. The primary aim of this book is to make money ; it has afi'other, that which is referred to in the '‘''Prefaced May the result be according to the wish of JEAN LAMB IE. Edinburgh, May igo^. T870842COOKING being a science as well as a profession^ ij p7'0perly carried out, should act as a civilizing factor and a moral agent. It is a professioti which ca7mot be acquired by mere theoretical studies; but by constant practice and experience; and by the help of a reliable guide book anyone of average intelligence can become a good house- hold cook. The successful cooks of to-day are those who study not only the preparation and cooking of new and artistic dishes, but who also understand the selection of the right kind of food to be so treated, and who also understand and study the economies of cooking. The extensive waste of food which one so often finds, is chiefly caused through simple ignorance of knowing how to properly select, prepare, and cook it. Good cooking is the greatest boon to mankind and the comfort of a home, whilst bad and wasteful cooking is an insult to natui'c. The world, and especially this country, is blest with the greatest variety of good food, most of which can be had at such price.! which brings it within the reach of everybody. So that with the equipment of the necessary knowledge of knowing how to cook it there should be no difficulty in ha'idng well-cooked, wholesome, satisfying and appetising food for eaiery living creatwe. There should be no e.vcuse for waste and e.xtravagance. It by no means follows that good cooking Is a matter of / /6 s;reat expense. It is more often a matter of knowledge than of money., for however simple the food may be it should be well cooked and should be placed 07i the table with taste and with daintwess. Every effort should be placed on makijig food tejtipting and prese7ttable, for whatever pleases the eye is pleasing to the palate. A dish if well cooked and badly dished offe7tds the eye, a7id it has the te7tdency to 77iar the pleasure. No 07te will de7iy these facts, U7id if the missio7i- of this little manual is to serve a77y good pU7pose, which I sincerely trust it will, the tables of those households who 77iake use of it will be made 7no7’e attractive, and the work of the cook a7td housekeeper should be 77iadc easier and pleasanter. C. H. S. Lo7tdon, May igo4.SOUPS BEEF SOUP—for Six. (American.) I shin bone. I head cabbage (small). 3 onions (good size). Salt and pepper to taste. I can tomatoes or i quart peeled tomatoes. I sprig parsley. Boil bone 3 hours—more if meat is not done. Skim carefully, add the onion.s, after meat has boiled i hour add tomatoes, and last hour add cabbage—cut very fine. Do not add salt and pepper until meat is cooked. When vegetables are cooked, also meat, take i cupful flour, make smooth, and of the thickness of sweet cream, add to soup, which should be four quarts, always keeping at that quantity. Mrs M'Connell, Lambertville, N.J., U.S.A. CRECY SOUP. 2 lbs. of fresh red carrots. I onion. Small lump of sugar. I leek. 2 ozs. of dripping or 3 ozs. of butter. 3 pints of boiling water or stock. Crouton.^ of toast or fried bread. Wash, prepare, and cut up into pieces, the carrots, onion, and leek, and put them with the dripping and sugar into a pan. But lid on and let them simmer on a gentle fire till quite soft, then add the water or stock by degrees, also pepper, salt, and some rinds of bacon. Let the whole boil till it will make a nice thick puree when rubbed through a sieve. Return the soup to the pot, adding a small piece of butter. Cook a little longer, boiling gently to reduce it, if not thick enough, then pour into the tureen. It must be like velvet. Serve croutons on a separate dish passed round. .Mi.ss Pi,.\CE, 35 Dockwray Sq., N. Shields.10 when adding eggs or cream to soup) then pour into soup, stirring till it is quite boiling again. Add parsley, salt and pepper, lo or 15 minutes before serving. 'I'his makes a very good soup. A large piece of carrot and turnip may be boiled in it, and when cooked, cut into pieces, and used for bordering the rabbit and mutton, which, when ready, should be lifted on to an ashet with the sauce poured over or round them. The soup should boil 2 hours in all. J. Lamiue, Edinburgh. FISH SOUP. 2 Ihs. of while fish. I onion. Small bit of carrot, turnip, and celery. Bunch of herbs. .Salt and 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped parsley. I teaspoonful of butler. I teaspoonful of ketchup. I teaspoonful of vinegar, pepper. Skin and bone the fish, re.serve best parts, and put the rest on in 2 quarts of water, with vegetables and herbs. Boil I hour, then strain. Wash out pan and return stock to it. Add bits of fish (cut into small pieces), also butter, vinegar, ketchup, and seasoning. Boil 10 minutes. Add parsley, and serv^e. Mrs Horn, Edgemont Gdns., Langside, Gla.sgow. HARICOT BEAN SOUP. I pint of Haricot benns. | i oz. of butter. 3 pints of good white slock j 2 lable.spoonfuls of cream, made from veal or mutton. | Pepper and salt to taste. Soak the haricot beans all night in water; next day, boil them in salted water for 4 hours, then rub through a sieve with a wooden spoon. Put the stock into a satice])an, add the bean pulp, butter, and pepper and salt to taste; set it on the fire and allow to boil for a few minutes. Just before pouring into the tureen add the cream. Serve dice of fried bread with the soup.11 LINCOLNSHIRE SOUP. 4 quarts of water. 3 large carrots. 5 large leeks. I lb. of green peas. i|- lbs. of runner of beef. Salt and pepper. Put the water into a soup pan ; then take the leeks, and after thoroughly washing them, cut them into dice; wash the carrots and cut them into small slices. After putting the leeks and carrots in, add the green peas, which must have been soaked the previous night. Then put in the beef, or a knuckle of ham will do as a substitute and is equally as nice. Let this boil slowly for three hours, and as the scum rises, .skim it off carefully. This is a very nourishing and delightful soup. Mrs VV. Crawford, Melrose. LENTIL SOUP (No i.) J lb. of lentils. 3 pints of water. Piece of celery. ■Salt to taste. IJ oz. of flour. 2 sprigs of parsley. I onion. Blade of mace, teaspoonful of pepper, oz. of butter. \ pint of milk. Put on lentils, onion, and seasonings in cold water, and boil gently till quite soft. Rub through a sieve. Return to the pot. Make sauce with butter, flour and milk, add to the soup and boil for a few minutes. Mrs J. F. Lambie, Langside, Glasgow. LENTIL SOUP (No. 2.) I tablespoon ful of beef dripping. I good sized onion, lb. of lentils. 3 pints of water. I carrot. I pint of milk. talflespoonfuls of flour. Put dripping into saucepan. Cut onion and carrot fairly fine, and add them. Cook for to minutes. Next add the lentils, previously well washed, and water. Let all boil for 2 hours, then rub through a sieve. Return to the pan, and when boiling, stir in flour and milk mixed together, stirring well to prevent lumping, then add pepper and salt to taste, a little nutmeg may be added if liked. Mrs Dougla.s Wii.son, Ldinburgh.12 MOCK TURTLE SOUP. ^ a calf’s head. A good sized carrot. One medium-sized onion. ^ teaspoonful of peppercorns. I ^ teaspoonfuls of Liebig’s Co.’s Extract of Meat. I teaspoonful of lemon juice. 2 or 3 blades of mace. 1 small turnip. Bunch of sweet herbs. Stalk of celery. 2 quarts of water. I oz. of butter. I oz. of flour. Put the calfs head into the cold water, bring to the boil and remove the scum. Simmer for two hours. Lift out the head, remove the white part and tongue, and cut them into squares about ^ an inch each—put these aside. Put the butter into a saucepan, and heat till brown, and fry in it all the vegetables sliced, till browned. Now add the flour, the stock in which the head was boiled, and the bones, etc., of the head. Add also the herbs, peppercorns, and liebig’s Company’s Extract of Meat. Simmer the whole for hours. Pass the soup through a sieve, add the pieces of white part of the head and tongue, lemon juice, and salt to season, i dozen forcemeat balls, and boil up for 20 minutes. Sometimes ^ a dozen yolks of eggs hard boiled are added to this soup. Liebig’s Extract of Meat Co. MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. Remain.s of cold fowl, ijquart.s of water. I tablespoonful of grated cocoanut. I oz. of flour. I teaspoonful of Liebig’s Co.’s Extract of Meat. I tablespoonful of curry powder. I large onion. I oz. of butler. I dessertspoonful of lemon juice. I carrot. Make butter hot in saucepan, add onion and carrot sliced, fry till browned. Add curry powder and flour, also water. Remove best parts of fowl from bones and set aside; add bones, etc., to stock, also the Liebig’s Company’s Extract of Meat, and cocoanut. Simmer slowly for hours, pass through a wire sieve, return to the pan, add pieces of fowl and lemon juice, reheat, season to taste with salt, and serve with boiled rice. Liebig’s Extract of Meat Co.13 MIKADO SOUP. I lb. of veal or muUon. I 02. of butler. I large onion. J lb. of rice. I dessertspoonful of salt. I tomato. I teaspoonful of curry powder. to breakfastcupfuls of water. Cut the meat into small pieces. Make the butter hot in a pan, and fry meat in it. Add the curry, salt and water, and boil f of an hour. Then add rice (carefully washed), onion, and tomato chopped. Boil for an hour longer, and season to taste. Miss Eliza Hamilton, i Myrtle Pk., Crosshill, Glasgow. ONION SOUP. I large or 3 small onions. Parsley. Good piece of butter. 3^- of milk. 1 small cup of rice flour. Put butter in pan, and add sliced onion, and let it simmer till cooked. Then add milk, and rice flour to thicken, then minced parsley. Put in tureen and season to taste. Miss R. C. Blyth, Abbotsford, Crookston. 1 oxtail. 2 02. of flour. 3 02. of butter. 2 carrots. I turnip. OXTAIL SOUP. 1 onion (stuck with cloves). ^ head of celery. A bunch of herbs. 12 peppercorns. 2 quarts of water. Salt to taste. Cut up the tail and blanch it, then take the pieces from the water and dry them well. Melt half the butter in a stewpan, put in the pieces of tail, with the vegetables already prepared and cut up small, and fry about 10 minute.s, until brown. Add the water and salt, and after it comes to the boil, let it simmer for about 2 hours, then take off and strain. In another pan fry the flour in the butter till browned, then add to the soup. Put it over the fire and allow to come to the boil, then skim and season to taste. Strain into the tureen, and serve in it the pieces of tail and some rounds of carrot and turnip previously cooked.14 OYSTER SOUP. 1 lin of oysters (best brand). 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. I pint of milk. I pint of fish stock made from fish trimmings. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour, and when quite smooth, add the milk. Let it boil, then add stock gradually and liquor in the oyster tin. Boil 15 minutes, then add half the tin of oysters, but don’t let it boil or oysters will harden. Season with white pepper and nutmeg. Mrs Durh.\m, Argyle Crescent, Portobello. PALESTINE SOUP. ^ peck Jeru.salem arlichokes. 2 quarts ordinary stock 4 ozs. of fresh butter. ^ pint of cream. 4 teaspoonful of sifted sugar. Cleanse, peel and slice up the artichokes, and put them into an enamelled saucepan with the butter, allow them to simmer gently on a slow Are until partially melted, taking care they do not get coloured in the process, then add the stock, and allow it to boil gently for f of an hour. Rub the whole through a hair sieve, put back into the saucepan, let it simmer gently, and as the scum rises, skim it off. Just before sending to table add the cream and sugar. C. G. 1). JEWISH PALESTINE SOUP. 4 peck Jerusalem arlichokes. 3 onions. I head of celery. 3 ozs. clarified marrow. 3 pints while veal slock. I oz. of sugar. 4 yolks of eggs. ISbrlmeg. Pepper. Ginger. Sail. Peel and slice up the artichokes, onions and celery. Put them into a stewpan with 3 ounces of clarified marrow and 2 pints of veal stock. Season with nutmeg, pepper, ginger, salt, and i ounce of sugar. Boil gently for i hour. Rub through a sieve, put the puree into a stewpan in which I pint of white veal stock has been put, stir over the fire to make it hot. Beat four yolks of eggs in a hot tureen, add the soup, stirring all the time Serve with fried squares of l)read. Flora Simmonds, 113 Gilmore Place.15 POOR MAN’S SOUP. I tablespoon fill of good roast beef dripping. I medium carrot. I turnip. Season to I good sized onion. 4 quarts of boiling water. I tablespoonful of Brown & Poison’s Patent Cornflour. taste. Chop atid brown the onion in the dripping. Clean and cut finely the carrot and turnip, and add them with the boiling water. Boil for 2^ hours. Add cornflour moistened, and seasonings, and stir. Boil a few minutes. Miss Hamilton, Leith. PLAIN WHITE SOUP. I quart of water. 3 potatoes. 3 onions. I smnll sliced turnip. I pint of sweet milk. I oz. of butter. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. Pepper and salt. Boil the vegetables in the water until they are soft, then pour through a colander, and return to the pot. Break the flour and butter with the milk; add to the soup. Add pepper and salt, and boil for 5 or 10 minutes. RABBIT SOUP. I rabbit. 1 tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Bunch of .sweet herbs. Salt. ^ teaspoonful of peppercorns. 2 small teaspoonfuls of Liebig’s Co. ’s Extract of Meat. 1 good sized carrot. 2 or 3 stalks of celery. 1 good sized onion. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of flour. 2 quarts of water. A little ham (if convenient). 2 or 3 cloves. Joint the rabbit, put into pan with cold water, bring to boil and skim well. Add the vegetables sliced, the celery, herbs, and peppercorns, ham and cloves. Simmer gently for 11 hours. Lift out the back of rabbit, remove flesh from bones, and put bones back into pan. Let the simmering continue for one hour longer. Pour stock through a fine sieve. Melt the butter in pan, stir to it the flour till smooth, add the stock and stir till it boils. Add now the salt, mushroom ketchup, and Liebig’s16 Company’s Extract of Meat, also the flesh from back of rabbit, cut up into small pieces. Serve with toast or fried sippets of bread. Liebig’s Extract of Meat Co. TURKISH or WHITE SOUP. I quart of slock (any kind), i leacupful of rice. I tablespoonful of cream, or 1 leacupful of milk. 2 yolks of eggs. Salt and pepper. Wash the rice and put it on with the stock and boil until it is soft, then pass it through a sieve. Beat the yolks and cream together and add the soup to them, gradually stirring all the time to keep the yolks from curdling. Return to the pot and make hot again, but do not boil. TOMATO SOUP. I lablespoonful of butler. 1 lb. of tomatoes. 2 onions. 3 tablespoonfuls of tapioca. 2 quarts of stock. Pepper and salt. Put the butter into a stewpan, then the onions sliced and fry them, add the tomatoes and stew for 20 minutes, after which rub through a sieve. Have the stock ready made from beef, mutton, veal, or a marrow bone, with vegetables for flavouring, add the pulp of the tomatoes and set on the fire to boil, then put in the tapioca which has been soaked for an hour, and keep stirring till it boils. The soup will be ready after boiling 10 minutes. Mrs W. Graham-Yooll, 45 Stirling Rd., Trinity, Leith. SEMOLINA SOUP. I quart of liquor in which meal has been boiled or of milk and water. 2 ozs. of semolina. I onion. A few herbs. Pepper and salt. Cut up onion and herbs and boil them gently for 15 minutes in the stock. Strain and return to the pan. When boiling up, shake in the semolina. Season, and simmer gently for ^ hour, stirring now and then. Mrs Crawford, Melrose.17 VERMICELLI SOUP (No. i.) 4 lbs. of knuckle of veal. 1 11). of lean ham. 2 onions. I carrot. 12 peppercorns. Head of celery (while part only). I tea.spoonful of salt. 1 blade of mace. 2 quarts of water. Simmer all together gently for 5 hours, and strain. The following day, remove all fat. Bring to boiling point. Have ready 4 ounces of pounded sweet almonds, i ounce of arrowroot, 2 ounces of vermicelli. Mix them together, first moistening the arrowroot with a little cold milk, else it will be lumpy, and pour stock on to those ingredients, stirring well. Last of all add a gill of cream, after which it must not boil. Mrs Meek, Roselea, Whiteinch, Glasgow. VERMICELLI SOUP (No. 2.) About 3 lbs. of knuckle of veal. A slice of lean ham. 2 carrots. A bunch of sweet herbs. 2 onions. A blade of mace. 6 peppercorns. 3 quarts of water. 3 ozs. vermicelli. Prepare the vegetables, cut them up, and put into a saucepan with the other ingredients (excepting the vermicelli), allow it to come to the boil and then simmer for three hours, then strain through a sieve, and set aside till cold; next day remove the fat from the top, and boil up the soup. Break up the vermicelli into some boiling water, strain off the .water, and put the vermicelli into the soup; let it simmer for about a ^ hour, season to taste, then serve. VEGETABLE SOUP. Steep 12 hojtrs in water to cover them ;— I oz. barley. I i oz. lentils. I oz. rice. | i oz. dried green peas. I oz. Haricot beans. Have ready 3 pints stock (made from boiling bones and scraps), add a Portugal onion, i small turnip, i carrot U18 and the above, and boil. When the vegetables are done rub through a wire sieve, return to pot, add salt and pepper to taste, and serve very hot. Sufficient for 8 persons. E. F. Bell, Edinburgh. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP. 1 good marrow. 2 onions. Head of celery. 2 ozs. of huUer. 3 pints of stock. I egg- Pepper and salt. Peel the marrow, remove the seeds and cut into slices. Put these into a stewpan with the onions (sliced), the celery cut up and butter Simmer .slowly over the fire for lo minutes, stirring frequently. Then add the stock, season with pepper and salt, boil very gently till all the vegetables are quite soft, then pass through a wire colander, return to the saucepan, boil up, and when off the boil stir in the yolk of an egg, and serve. Made with milk instead of stock the soup is still more delicate, and a little cornflour may then be used to thicken the soup instead of the egg. Miss H. Macgillivray, Edinburgh. SCOBIE & MdNTOSH 53 COCKBURN STREET EDINBURGH Cooking and Confectionery Utensils of every description. Jelly and Pudding Moulds in Copper and Tin. Fancy Cake Shapes in great variety Shortbread Prints, Icing Pipes, etc. ALSO AT 11 Sfjringfieltl Court, GLASGOWm19 FI5H. A TASTY SAVOURY. Take two (red) herrings already cooked, remove all skin, bones, etc., and pound in a basin with a little cream, oat- meal and a pinch of cayenne pepper until quite smooth, put some of the above paste on rounds of toasted or fried bread, and serve very hot. Miss Sinclair, 7 Morningside Park. A FAVOURITE WAY OF COOKING FISH. Some fillets or steaks of white fish without skin or bone. Tomatoes (fresh). A little flour or cornflour. Butter. Pepper and salt. Have the fish clean and dry. Roll in flour. Lay in greased baking-tin. Skin and slice the tomatoes and lay on the fi.sh, and on them put a good bit of butter in small pieces, then sprinkle with pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper and bake in moderate oven till ready. Serve very hot. The sauce in the pan may or may not be thickened. J. Lambie, Edinburgh. BUTTERED LOBSTER. I large lobster. I wine-gla.ss of vinegar. 3 ozs. butler. I saltspoonful of cayenne. I saltspoonful made mustard. 3 heads lettuce. I hard-boiled egg. Pepper. Remove the meat from the shell of the lobster, and chop it very fine, add butter, pepper, and mustard to vinegar, and put this with lobster in a stewpan over the fire. Stir until heated. Cut and wash the lettuces, arrange them in a salad bowl, lay the hot lobster in the centre, garnish w'ith egg and •serve. Mrs Osler, Edinburgh. /20 COD STEAK WITH BROWN SAUCE Take some slices of cod, wash and dry thoroughly. Ruh them over with lemon juice, and toss in flour until covered. Melt in a frying-pan some dripping to cover the bottom of the pan, and when hot, put in the cod and fry browm, first on one side and then on the other. When browm, lift on to a hot dish, wfiiile the gravy is being made. Pour away the fat, leaving only the sediment in the pan. Add to this sediment, rather more than i tea.spoonful of flour. Brown, stirring w’ith a wooden spoon, then add ^ pint of water or stock, i teaspoonful of anchovy essence, I tablespoonful of ketchup, and juice of h a lemon. Stir over the fire till boiling. Serve with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Miss Goodwin, Edinburgh. DRIED HADDOCK AND TOMATOES. I dried haddock. 2 tomatoes. I small onion. i oz. of butter. Pepper, salt and parsley. Soak fish for 3 or 4 hours, skin it and take out all bones, and break up the fish into flakes, slice onion and tomatoes, chop parsley, sprinkle with pepper and salt. Cook all in the butter till soft, then add fish and cook for 10 minutes longer. Dish up on a border of boiled rice or mashed potatoes. Miss Guthrie, 29 Regent Park Square, Strathbungo, Glasgow. FISH BONDIN. 2 ozs. butter. 2 ozs. bread soaked in milk. From I to 3 eggs. 2 ozs. fish (whiting preferred) well pounded. Seasoning to taste. Whip bread till smooth, add fish and seasoning, next yolks of eggs, and lastly stiffly beaten whites. Steam for about an hour and serve with melted butter sauce in which is mixed the chopped white of a hard-boiled egg. Sprinkle the crumbled yolk of the egg on the shape w-hen turned out. Pounded chicken or rabbit may be used instead of fish, and tomato .sauce used if preferred. Miss Bryce, Lauder Road.21 FISH BALLS. 6 potatoes. 2 Aberdeen haddocks. I oz. butter. A breakfastcupful bread- crumbs. 2 eggs. Put haddocks in a greased tin j cover with a buttered paper, and bake 20 minutes. Remove the flesh from the bones and chop it finely. Boil the potatoes, mash them with the butter, add them to the fish. Beat the yolk of one of the eggs with a tablespoonful of milk, and add it. Flour the hands, make the mixture into neat balls, dip in the other beaten egg, then in the breadcrumbs, fry in boiling fat, drain on kitchen paper, and serve very hot. ' M. K. Williams. FISH PIE, No. I. ^ lb. cooked fish. lb. bread crumbs. I breakfastcupful of while sauce. 2 teaspoonfuls chopped parsley. Salt. Pepper. Wash, dry, and chop parsley. Take a pie-dish, and put half the quantity of fish in the bottom, which has been greased, then half the breadcrumbs, half the parsley, and half sauce, and season. Then put on the other half of fish, bread, parsley and sauce, put a few pieces of butter on. the top, brown in oven till ready. Miss Eliza Hamilton, I Myrtle Park, Crossbill, Glasgow. FISH PIE, No. 2. .Salt fish or cold fi.sh. i teaspoonful melted butter. •Mashed potatoes. ^ leacupful milk. Some pepper and salt. Beat the potatoes with a wooden spoon adding the milk and melted butter gradually. Break up the fish, removing the bones, add to the potatoes, and mix all thoroughly, .sea.soning with the pepper and salt. Put in a buttered pie- dish, smooth on the top, and brown in the oven. If salt fish is u.sed, steep, and stew slowly before adding the potatoes, etc.22 FISH RISSOLES. I oz. flour. I oz. butter. ^ gill fish stock. I breakfaslcupful boiled fi.sh. I teaspoonful anchovy sauce. Pepper and salt. Any cold fish does for rissoles. Place butter and flour in a pan and make into a paste over the fire, mix in stock (water will do or milk). Stir fast till thick, mix in fish, then anchovy, pepper and salt. Mix thoroughly. Flour the hands slightly ; take a small quantity of the mixture and shape into a long roll, do this till it is quite finished. 8 rissoles should be got out of this quantity. Have ready a beaten egg and some fine white breadcrumbs. Dip rissoles in egg then in crumbs. When all are finished, fry in smoking hot fat till a nice brown colour, drain on kitchen paper, arrange on a dish and serve. Eliz. M. B. Williams, Hutcheon House, Sherbrooke Avenue. FISH SOUFFLE. 2i lbs. fresh haddock. i gill of white butter sauce. White of 2 eggs. White pepper, salt to taste. Take fish off bones—press through an open wire sieve— along with the white butter sauce. Whip the whites of eggs very stiffly, and mix with fish and sauce, season to taste, and steam for a quarter of an hour or 20 minutes. Serve with butter sauce made with bones from fish, poured over. Mrs Murray, Mayfield, Welksham, Wiltshire. FISH CAKES. I lb. cold fish. ^ lb. cold potatoes. I oz. melted butter. I egg. Pepper and .salt. Egg and breadcrumbs. Mot fat to fry. Remove all skin and bone from fish while hot, rub potatoes through sieve, add melted butter, fish, salt, pepper and egg (well beaten). Mix well, turn out on to a floured23 board, make up into cakes. Brush over with egg, toss in breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat till golden brown. Drain well on soft paper. Miss J. T. Rankin, Glasgow. FISH CUSTARD. 6 filleted haddocks or any cold cooked fish. egg- I teacupful milk. A little finely chopped parsley. A little pepper and salt. Butter a pie-dish, put the fish in loosely, sprinkle with the pepper, salt and parsley. Beat the egg and add the milk. Pour this over the fish and bake in moderate oven for 20 minutes. If steamed, 40 minutes. Fish. ' Butter. Cheese. FISH AU GRATIN. Cayenne. Eggs- Tomato or potato. Take the remains of cold boiled fish—cod, halibut or turbot—remove skin and bones, separate flakes without breaking them. Thickly butter an ashet and put alternate layers of fish, rich butter sauce, sprinkling each layer with grated cheese and a little cayenne. On the top strew brown bread crumbs, and over them place pats of butter. Place in the oven to get thoroughly heated. Garnish with hard-boiled egg and tomato, or with potato border. Anne G. Kerr. FRITOT 4 lahlespoonfuls findon haddock cooked and chopped. A LA RUSSE. I yolk of egg. Lemon juice. Batter. Cheese. Mix the fish, egg, and lemon juice, and stir over the fire for a few minutes ; then form into fingers, dip in batter, and fry in hot fat. Sprinkle grated cheese over, and serve. Miss Stewart Wrioht, 26 Lansdowne Gres., Glasgow.24 HADDOCK FILLETED AND STEAMED. Roll up your fillets with a little pepper and .salt. Have a saucepan with boiling water on the fire. On the top of this lay a plate well greased. Lay the fillets on the plate and place a small basin over them. Steam for about 30 mins. Mrs Wright, Edinburgh. HADDOCK, FILLETED AND FRIED. 'hake a filleted haddock, wash and dry it. Dip into it a little flour, pepper and salt. Then dip it into a well-beaten egg. Toss in breadcrumbs and fry in boiling fat. Serve with thin slices of lemon on ashet, and garnish with sprigs of parsley. Mrs Wright, Edinburgh. MOCK OYSTERS. A nice supper dish. Boil 8 large artichokes till tender. Scald, skin, and bone 6 sardines—pound down to a paste. Butter souffle dishes. Beat up artichokes and sardines with an egg, and pepper and salt. Fill dishes. Sprinkle bread crumbs on top, and brown in oven. This mixture may also be baked in a pie-dish. Miss Irvine, 65 Morningside Park. PETITS SALPICONS DE SOLE A LA BERNEVAL. By kind permission of Liebig s Extract of Meat Co. I large .sole (cooked). T ruffles. I gill of cream. 4 tomatoes. ^ pint of Velont(5 .sauce. 3 leaves of gelatine. Carmine. 1 cjuart of aspic made with Lemco. Cucumber. Take i pint of aspic and mix 4 tomatoes pounded well, add a little carmine, then tammy. Pour into cone mould and set on ice. Line some fish moulds with aspic, decorateTelegrams—“ NOVELTY.” Telephone 294. Jolin Jameson & Son Fishmongers and Ice Merchants Game and Poultry Dealers 58 CASTI.E STREET, EDINBURGH ALL ORDERS RECEIVE BEST ATTENTION, AND DESPATCHED WITH PROMPTITUDE Sporting Gentlemen and others having Surplus Game, &c., to dispose of receive value in money, or credited as contra, as desired. Telegrams—“RELIANCE.” Telephone 174. JAMES WATSON fishmonger and Jce jYierchant Qame and poultry pealer . . 73 LEITH STREET, EDINBURGH All Orders for Town or Country receive Best Attention, and delivered with despatch. SURPLUS GAME, RABBITS, &c., BOUGHT AT MARKET PRICE.26 with truffles, then coat with cream and gelatine. Make a salpicon of sole, sauce, cream and gelatine, and fill in the small moulds. When set turn out. Place tomato aspic in centre of dish, arrange the fish moulds round the base, and garnish with cucumber and salad. PATES DE CREMES DE MERLAN. 4 tablespoonfuls of cooked whiting. I tablespoonful Tarragon vinegar. i gill whipped cream. 1 tablespoonful Chili vinegar. 2 tablespoonfuls chopped aspic jelly. Beat all together and serve in Ramakin papers. Miss Stewart Wright, 26 Lansdowne Crescent, Glasgow. RECHAUFFE OF FISH. Cold boiled fish. I breakfastcupful bread- crumbs. I egg. I tablespooi I oz. butter. A few drops essence of anchovies. A little pepper and salt, ful of milk. Mix the fish, crumbs, salt and pepper together. Beat up the egg and butter and add the milk and anchovy, and pour over the mixture. Put all in a buttered tin, steam for 10 minutes, turn out and serve with a butter sauce over it. SALMON AND MAYONNAISE SAUCE. 2 lbs. salmon (salt). 2 yolks of eggs. ^ teaspoonful of made mustard. 2 teaspoonfuls of vinegar, i pint .salad oil or melted butter. Boil salmon for about 20 minutes. A\fflen cold cover with the sauce and decorate with parsley and salad round the dish. For the mayonnaise, break the yolks into a basin, add pepper and salt, then the oil—a drop at a time—tinlil as thick as creamed butter, after which add vinegar by slow degrees. Mrs Osler, Edinburgh.27 SALMON PIE. 6 eggs. 2 lbs. short paste. 2 lbs. fresh salmon. 6 anchovies. 2 doz. olives. 1 lb. mushrooms. 2 shalots. 1 handful of parsley. A little green thyme, sweet basil and tarragon. 2 ozs. butter. A little nutmeg, pepper, salt. Juice of I lemon. ^ pint brown sauce. Cut the salmon into slices ^ an inch thick, set them aside on a plate, fillet the anchovies, remove the stones from the olives without spoiling their shape, boil the eggs till they are hard and place the whole of these into a dish; chop the mushrooms, shalots and parsley, green thyme, sweet basil and tarragon; put these ingredients into a stewpan with the butter, nutmeg, pepper and salt, and allow them to simmer over the fire for about 5 minutes, then add the brown sauce, juice of lemon, and stir all together over the fire for 5 mins, longer, then take it off. Roll out f of the’ paste to the thickness of of an inch, and after having spread an oblong mould or pie-dish with birtter, line it with the paste and fill it with alternate layers of salmon and hard-boiled eggs, olives, and fillets of anchovies, with some of the herbs and sauce in between the layers. Cover in the pie with the remainder of the paste, and bake in a moderately hot oven for ij hours. C. G. D. SOLE. Fillets of sole. I oz. butter. I oz. flour, i pint of milk. Tablespoonful thick cream. Parsley. Pepper and salt. Squeeze of lemon juice. Small teaspoonful anchovy sauce. 3 hard-boiled eggs. Lay fillets in buttered tin, put pieces of butter on topj squeeze over lemon juice, cover with buttered paper. Cook in oven. Make sauce of butter, flour, milk, cream, pepper and salt, squeeze of lemon juice, anchovy sauce. Lay cooked sole in dish and cover with the sauce. For garnish, rtib yolk and white of hard-boiled eggs separately through wire sieve, lay on fish in alternate rows, add small pieces of parsley. A delicious dish. -Vlrs Grievk, Coillesdene, Portobello.28 STEAMED FISH CAKE. 1 lb. cooked fish. 2 ozs. Ijreadcrumbs. ^ teacupful mashed potatoes I oz. butter. I or 2 eggs. I de.sserlspoonful chopped parsley. Salt and pepper. A squeeze of lemon, i teacupful of milk. Put butter in saucepan, add fish, .stir over fire till warm. Add parsley, potatoes, and breadcrumbs, salt, pepper and lemon. Beat eggs, add milk, and add to fish. Pour into buttered mould and steam i hour, turn out and serve with white sauce poured round. Mrs Horn. STEWED FISH. I'ake 3 filletted haddocks, sprinkle some salt over them and dip in flour. Divide them lengthways and roll up neatly. Put them in a saucepan with half a teacupful of milk. Bring to the boil and stew gently for lo minutes. Mix a dessert sjjoonful of flour with a teacupful of milk. Lift out the fish carefully and stir this mixture in the sauce- pan with a teaspoonful of butter and a little salt until it thickens. Pour this over the fish and serve at once. Mrs CuNNiNGHAM, lo Craighall Cres., Trinity. STUFFED HADDOCK, BAKED. A haddock (i^ or 2 lbs.). Breadcrumbs. Finely-chopped parsley. Finely-chopped suet or butter. A little lemon juice or rind. Pepper and salt. Enough beaten egg to make into a paste. Wash the haddock well, take out eyes and off fins, and dry well. Mix the other ingredients and stuff the haddock, not quite full if breadcrumbs were dry. Sew up with strong white thread and lay on a well-greased roasting tin. I>ay some small pieces of butter on fish, cover with greased paper, and bake in moderate oven till ready. 1 ime according to size. Do not allow it to dry up. Serve with melted butter sauce. J. Lambie, Edinburgh.29 TO USE UP SCRAPS OF FISH. Cooked fish (chopped). I, 2 or 3 eggs as required, i leaspoonful of cornflour (to each egg.) 3 teacupful of milk (to each " egg). A little Worcester or tomato sauce. Finely-chopped parsley (if liked). Seasoning. Beat eggs very light. Mix cornflour and milk and add to eggs. Add sauce, parsley and seasoning, and mix well, then fish. Put a bit of butter in frying-pan, and when hot pour in mixture, and fry gently till brown on under side, turn and brown on other side. If too large to turn in one, cut across into four and then turn. Serve very hot. It can be made lighter still by omitting the cornflour and part of milk, and served on toast. J. L.A.M1UE, Edinburgh. OYSTER PATES. I small tin of oysters, J oz. flour. ^ oz. butter. i gill oyster liquor. Pepper and salt to taste. Melt butter in saucepan and then remove from fire before adding flour. Return then to fire and add oyster liquor, stirring quickly. Boil thoroughly. It should be very thick. Put oysters in and season. Put this mixture into puff pastry cases. Minnie Mather, i6 I.eamington Ter. WHITE STEWED SALMON (Jewish). 2 lbs. of salmon cut into eight pieces. t onion chopped very fine. I tablespoonful of .salad oil. Pepper, ginger and .salt. Put the salmon on to boil in water. Add the onion, which is brown in the salad oil, then add Sauce— 6 yolks of eggs. Juice of 6 lemons. Pinch of cayenne. a stewpan with \ a pint of first to Ire fried a very light a little pepper, ginger, and30 J. Lamp,IE, Edinburgh. a pinch of salt. Boil gently for 25 minutes; then add the sauce, made in the following way :—Beat up in a basin, the yolks, lemon juice, and cayenne; add the gravy off the fish, and pour back into the stewpan, and let it boil up, the fish having been lifted out. Serve hot or cold. WHITING OR HADDOCK IN MEAL. Wash, scrape, and dry well, the fish, take off the heads. Brush inside and out with milk, and cover well with meal preparation. Put butter in a pan large enough to hold all. Fry well on both sides, sprinkling a little lemon juice on meanwhile. When nicely browned put on a closely fitting lid, and place on a cooler part of stove to steam gently for 10 or 15 minutes. Drain on paper if you like. This di.sh is not suitable for an invalid. F. Si.MMONDS, 113 Gilmore PL, Edinburgh. Some small haddocks or Oatmeal, pepper and salt whiting. Blitter. (mixed together). A little lemon juice.31 MEAT D15HES. A RECIPE WHICH CAN BE VARIED. Some 12 or 14 different ways of making a Mince Roll have been sent, all different and still so alike that all could not be printed, but I have chosen two ways of doing it in the oven, “Mock Roast of Venison,” and “Roast Mince.” However, veal alone can be used, or minced steak and smoked ham, and it may be baked in a greased tin in the oven, it may be steamed in a tin, and it may be boiled tied in a cloth, in which last case it is taken out of the cloth when cooked, cloth dried, rolled up again and left between boards with a weight. When quite pressed, glaze and decorate. A VERY FINE WAY OF COOKING A HAM. For a ham weighing 10 or 12 lbs. take 2 lbs. of flour and make into paste with cold water. Roll out till it is large enough to cover the ham and overlap a bit. Lay the ham in the middle of paste, then cover, wetting the edges to make it keep together. Bake in a steady warm or moderately hot oven for 20 minutes to every r lb. and 20 minutes more. If the oven is too hot the crust will burst before the ham is nearly cooked. When ready take out, pull off the crust, which will bring the skin with it. If too fat, .scrape off some, make tidy, and cover well with the breadcrumbs. 'I he flavour (rf ham may be made milder by soaking it in cold water for a few hours previous to Ham. Flour. Water. Fine brown breadcrumbs. baking. J. Lamijik, Edinburgh. /32 BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. i lb. self-raising flour. 3 oz. suet. I tcaspoonful salt. I gill buttermilk. 1 lb. steak. 2 kidneys. A tablespoonful flour. Pepper and salt. I onion. Cut Steak and kidneys into pieces. Mix the salt and pepper with the tablespoonful of flour. Dip each piece of meat in this. Put flour, suet, and the teaspoonful of salt into a bowl, and mix to a paste with the buttermilk. Turn out on a floured board; cut a piece off for the cover and roll the rest out fairly thin. Line a pudding tin with the paste then put in tiie meat, kidneys, and onion chopped small. Pour in a gill of water and a dessertspoonful of ketchup. Roll out the piece of paste for the cover and put it on. Wet the edges of the paste in the tin to make the cover stick. Cover with a buttered paper and steam 3 hours. Any sort of fruit dumpling can be made by filling the tin with the fruit instead of meat and using sweet milk to mix the paste. Marjorie K. Williams, Hutcheon Ho., Sherbrooke Av., Pollokshields. BEEF OLIVES. I lb. steak (cut thin) ^ teaspoonful salt. I egg. 3 tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs ^ teaspoonful pepper. 2 teaspoon fu Is Worcester sauce 2 oz. bacon ^ oz. flour. I pint stock or water. Flatten the steak ; cut it into strips about 3 inches wide. Mince the bacon, which should not have much lean, mix it with the breadcrumbs, salt and pepper. Beat up the egg, stir half of it into the mixture; spread some of the seasoning on each strip of beef. Roll the pieces up, and tie each with a piece of fine string. Dip the rolls into the remainder of the egg, and put them into a stewpan, packing them tightly to keep the shape. Add the stock or water, cover the pan, and let the olives simmer for about hours. When cooked, take them from the pan; mix the flour with a little33 cold water or stock; stir it with a ^ teaspoonful of browning into the gravy. Let it boil for 2 or 3 minutes, then add the Worcester sauce. Remove the string from the olives, arrange them on a dish, and pour the gravy round them. Serve with mashed potatoes. Mrs Sutherland, Ashleigh Villa, 34 Willowbrae Road. BRAISED RABBIT. I rabbit. I dessertspoonful of butter. A"ash the rabbit, removing head and heart, etc. Soak for 20 to 30 minutes in salt and water. Meanwhile prepare the following,— Sauce. I tablespoonful of vinegar. I oz. of butter or white dripping. I onion. A piece of carrot and celery. Bunch of herbs and blade of mace (if liked). Salt and I tomato. Some scraps of bacon. I tablespoonful of flour. 14 pints of stock or I teaspoonful of meat extract and water, or head, heart and liver well washed. Boil vinegar till almost evaporated, then add the butter, and when quite hot, fry first the onion chopped, the bacon cut into small pieces, and the vegetables, all cleaned nicely, dried and cut into small pieces ; also the herbs, spices and flour. Next add the meat extract, water, pepper and salt. Stir till it boils. Boil gently for an hour or longer and strain over the rabbit in the pan, which has been prepared as follows : Dry the rabbit; cut into suitable pieces ; make the butter hot in a pan which will go into the oven, and fry rabbit till brown ; cover with a greased paper and cook in a gentle oven till quite tender, basting frequently. The secret in doing this successfully is having the gentle oven heat all round the pan. The French have a special pan with a hollow lid with ledges to it, over and around which hot cinders are placed. In a somewhat similar way in certain parts of Scotland is peat used, for baking cakes, etc., where the people have no ovens. Jean Lamiue, Edinburgh. t) /34 BRAISED VEAL. ij lbs veal (gigot). I dessertspoonful butter. I breakfastcupful water. A small Ijit carrot, turnip celery and onion. Salt and pepper to taste. Put butter in stewpan. Make it very hot. Put in veal and brown. Then take it out, and brown vegetables. Add salt and pepper. Boil. Then lay veal in on the top, and simmer slowly for 2 hours. Dish veal and strain gravy round it Mrs Horn. BROWN STEW (Jewish). Veal or fowl. Ginger. 2 onions. Pepper and salt. Cut veal or fowl into 4 oz. pieces and dip each piece in the following mixture, and fry a light brown in clarified marrow. Mix flour with ^ a teaspoonful ginger, pepper and salt. Slice and fry 2 onions, also a dozen force meat balls. Put the veal in a stewpan with the onions and i pint of good gravy, and a little more ginger, pepper and salt. Stew very gently for t^ hours, then add the balls. Skim all the fat off and thicken with | a teacupful of cold water and 2 table- spoonfuls cornflour. Flora Simmond.s, 113 Gilmore PI. CHAUDFROID DE VOLAILLE A LA BARONNE. With kind permission of Leibig's Extract of Meat Company. I boiled chicken. ^ pint of Bechamel sauce. I gill of double cream. I pint of aspic jelly made with ‘Lemco.’ ^ lb rich short crest pastry 5 leaves of gelatine. Red panurette crumbs. Seasoning.' Lettuce. Mustard. Cre.ss. Grease a basket mould, line with pastry, fill with rice to support, and bake light colour, then turn out the rice. Brush over the outside of pastry with white of egg, and coat with panurette. Cut up cold chicken into joints, coat with Bechamel sauce, to which the cream and gelatine should be added. When set decorate and glaze with aspic jelly. Fill basket with salad, arrange chicken on top, force with aspic and decorate.35 CHICKEN SOUFFLE. i lb. of raw chicken. ij oz. of butter. I gill of cream. 2 eggs. Pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Mince chicken finely. Pound in a mortar, adding gradually the butter in lumps, and the eggs. When well pounded pass through a hair sieve. Put the cream in a basin and whip it, then add it to the mixture, mixing gently. Grease a tin or bowl with butter. Pour in souffle, cover with greased paper and place in a pan with closely- fitting lid for f hour, with ins. deep of water which steams strongly but does not boil. It must not get strong heat. Turn out, and coat with good white sauce and decorate with truffles, etc. CHICKEN A LA ROMAINE. A fowl, picked, cleaned and jointed. 2 table-spoon fuls of salad oil. I tin of tomatoes. 4 sliced onions. Piece of carrot, turnip and parsley. Some boiled macaroni. Make salad oil very hot in a stewpan. Season pieces of fowl and fry them in oil till golden colour. Add the other ingredients, except macaroni, and simmer till fowl is tender. Dish the fowl in a pile. Strain and thicken the sauce and pour round, then garnish with boiled macaroni, cut in inch length pieces. B. T. Lightbody, Rutherglen. CHARTREUSE OF CHICKEN. Breast of a chicken, pounded. 4 oz. of boiled ham, pounded. 1 jar of cream. 2 eggs, whites whipped to a stiff froth. Season to taste. Beat the chicken and cream until the mixture gets quite thick. Add i yolk and the ^ of the white of egg. Mix the ham and the remainder of the egg together. ^Decorate a plain mould with cut carrot and the green of a leek, then line with the chicken mixture, and in the centre put the ham mixture. Cover with a buttered paper and steam gently | an hour. Serve with white sauce. Miss Stkwart Wright.36 CORNISH PASTIES. 3 lb of beef steak, i lb of pot.atoes. 1 onion. Pepper and salt. 2 tablespoonfiils of cold water. Pastry— % lb. of flour. i lb of fat. Teaspoonful of baking powder. Cut meat and potatoes into small dice. Place in a saucepan with onion chopped, water and seasonings. Stew gently till tender. Have ready the pastry. Cut into rounds about the size of a saucer. Place a spoonful of the prepared mixture in the centre of each piece. Wet the edge, turn one half of pastry over to enclose the meat. Make it firm by pinching the edges. Bake in a hot oven about i an hour. Mrs C.-^MPBELL, 4 Carment Drive, Shawlands, Glasgow. COWHEEL AND STEAK PIE. 4 a cowheel. ^ lb. of shoulder sleak. Salt and pepper. Short crust or puff pastry. Stew cowheel and steak gently until tender. Put into a pie-dish and cool. Cover with pastry, and bake in hot oven till paste is done. Mrs Lambie, I.evenshulme, Manchester. CREME OF FOWL. Take meat (say breast of fowl), and put it through mincer three times, then bruise it through a wire sieve with iron or wooden spoon. Have a piece of bread (fourth quantity of meat) soaked in milk, which also bruise through sieve, put all in a basin, season with pepper and salt, add I tablespoonful of cream, mix all well with a wooden spoon. Put into a mould, or small moulds as preferred, well buttered. Cover with paper, put in a pan of boiling water, draw to side, but do not allow it to boil. Large mould will take ^ an hour, small ones a | of an hour. Serve with sauce and ornament prettily. Rabbit, beef, mutton, fish can be used in the same way. M. A. B. H. A.CURRY MADE OF COLD MEAT. ^ lb. of Patna rice (boiled). Any kind of meat or fish. I oz. of butter. I small onion. J pint of stock. ^ an apple. I dessertspoonful of curry powder I dessertspoonful of flour. Cut the meat into small pieces. Chop the onion and apple. Put fat into a pan to get very hot, then add the flour to get well browned, then add the other ingredients, except the meat. Simmer gently for 20 minutes. Add the meat to get thoroughly heated but not boiled, then lift on to an ashet with a border of boiled rice. Mrs Campbell, 4 Garment Drive, Shawlands, Glasgow. DUTCH STEW. A piece of mutton or beef partly fat. I dessertspoonful of dripping. I cabbage. Some potatoes. One or two onions. Make dripping very hot in a deep pot. Add and fry the onions finely chopped. Wash the mutton and put it dripping with water into the pot, replacing the lid quickly to keep in steam. Let it cook for about i hour. Meanwhile, wash the cabbage, removing all withered leaves. Cut into four or eight pieces down the cabbage. Soak a short time in salted water. Wash, skin, and slice the potatoes, then lift cabbage and them dripping with water into the pot. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and cook as long again or until all is quite tender. This makes a simple nice little dinner, with little trouble, but it vmst be cooked gently or it will be spoiled. J. Lambte, Edinburgh. GRILLED MUTTON CUTLETS AND TOMATOES 4 mutton cutlets. | 2 tomatoes. Trim cutlets neatly and flatten them, and then dip in melted butter. Grease the gridiron and lay on the cutlets.38 and cook them about 8 minutes, turning constantly. Divide each tomato into four pieces and bake on a greased tin for a few minutes. Sprinkle with salt and pepper, and serve on cutlets. E. P. Watson, Motherwell. HARICOT MUTTON. I lb. mutton. I tablespoonful dripping, I tablespoonful flour. I tablespoonful ketchup. pint hot water I carrot. ^ turnip. I onion. Pepper and salt. Remove the skin and some fat from the meat, and cut it into neat pieces. Put the dripping into a saucepan, and make it hot. Add the mutton and brown nicely. Take out each piece as it is brown, and fry the onion. Pour away the fat, and put the meat back into the saucepan with the vegetables cut up, pepper, salt and water. Cover tightly with a lid, and simmer slowly for 2 hours. Dish on a hot ashet, with the vegetables round. Keep hot while you thicken the gravy with flour and ketchup ; stir till boiling, skim, and pour round the meat. Mrs Sutherland. ITALIAN STEW. ^ lb. haricol beans. I bunch of Cambridge sausages. A little bit of carrot grated. A very little minced onion. A teaspoonful of parsley. Brown the last three in a pan with a little bit of butter or dripping. Add 3 or 4 large tomatoes, then last of all add the beans (which are already boiled), with a little of the boilings, then the sausage meat. Stew all together for ^ an hour. This is a real Italian dish. Mrs Morison, 3 Westminster Gdns., Hillhead, Glasgow.39 JUGGED RABBIT. :}: lb. of bacon. 4 pint of stock. I rabbit. i teaspoonful of pepper- corns. I tomato. 4 cloves. I shallot. I dessertspoonful of red currant jelly. I de.ssertspoonful of ketchup Small bit of onion. I slice of lemon. Cut bacon in small pieces. Put into a stewpan to heat. Chop onion. Stick cloves into shallot. Wash, dry and cut up rabbit. Fry onion beside bacon, then lift them out, and put in rabbit, and fry a few minutes, quickly, turning constantly. Have a jar ready, put in a layer of bacon, and a layer of rabbit, tomato, shallot, then the rest of the rabbit, bacon, and onion, lemon, and as much stock to cover, and add I a teaspoonful of salt. Tie a thick piece of paper over the jar and have a tin with water i inch deep. Set the jar in it. Bake in a hot oven for hours. Have ashet ready with a paste round it baked Lift out the pieces of rabbit on to the ashet. Strain sauce, add ketchup and jelly. Stir and pour over rabbit, and serve. J. W. D. Skin, paunch, and wash the hare, cut it into pieces, dredge with flour, and fry in hot dripping. Put gravy in a jar, add the fried pieces of hare, an onion stuck with 6 clove.s, the lemon peeled and cut in quarters, and a good seasoning of pepper, cayenne and salt. Cover the jar down tightly, put it up to the neck in a stewpan , of boiling water and let it stew until the hare is tender. When nearly cooked add a few forcemeat balls, fried or baked in the oven a few minutes before they are put in the gravy. Serve with red-currant jelly. Rabbit may be cooked in the same way. JUGGED HARE. I hare I onion. I tomato. 6 cloves. II pints good gravy. Flour. Dripping. Some forcemeat balls. Salt, pepper, cayenne. I lemon.40 MEXICAN STEW. I piece of lean beef or hough. I large onion. 4 or 5 tomatoes, or tinned tomato. Pepper, salt and little dripping. Put meat into a deep iron pot, with a very little water, and on it lay onion sliced, tomato also, and pepper, salt and dripping. Cover closely, and simmer for 2 dr more hours, until the beef is very tender and dark coloured. Lift out the meat and pour the gravy over it on the platter. MOCK ROAST OF VENISON. 2 lbs. beef (mixed fat and lean). 2 lbs. fresh pork. I breakfastcupful bread crumbs. 5 egg.s. Separate from the meat all skin, sinews, etc., which go to make gravy. Mince the beef and pork very fine, and thoroughly mix with the breadcrumbs and well-beaten eggs. Season with pepper and salt. Form into a loaf-like shape and set aside till next morning. Cut the fat of the pork into strips and lard the shape. Roast in the oven for 2^ hours, basting first with butter, then with gravy; to which add a teacupful of cream ^ an hour before the roast is ready. Strain the gravy through a fine sieve, and serve in a tureen, with the roast. This dish is excellent hot, and also eats well cold. Anne G. Kerr, Edinburgh. PATES AU BEURRE. Butter. Flour. 2 eggs. Breadcrumbs. Lard Minced white meat. Butter sauce. A ball of butter dipped in eggs and breadcrumbs twice. Fried in boiling lard. Cut off tops, empty butter out and fill with any sort of hot minced white meat and butter sauce. A pretty little entree. Mrs Grieve, Coillesdene, Portobello.DOTJ»&LAS, i.o.m:. M‘ADAM’S Waverley Select Boarding Establishment The “ORIGINAL” and Old Favourite CHARMINGLY SITUATED CENTRE OF LOCH PROMENADE (36) CUISINE Clean Liberal and Good View from Windows commands the whole Sea front Dark Room for Amateur Photography Prospectus of all arrangements on application Owing to the plurality of ‘'WAVERLEY ” in Douglas, Letters or Wires should be addressed— “McADAM’S Waverley, Douglas, Man.” VISITOR’S Opinion “WAVERLEY” made SIR WALTER famous, If we praise it, who can blame us? But McADAM has here created A “ WAVERLEY ” as celebrated. “Cooking everything to be desired.”— Miss MILES, D.N.C.U. Cookery Lecturer, Author of The Twentieth Century Cookery Book Nota Bene to Commercial Gentlemen: 18years ‘on the road’ Five Minutes’ Walk from Steamer Proprietor, ANDREW F. McADAM4-2 POT PIE. 1 lb. shoulder steak. 2 onions. 2 lbs. of potatoes. Seasonings. Have a pie-dish. Put a layer of steak in it, then of onions, then of potatoes. Repeat till full, adding in season- ing, and a little water. Cover with paste and bake in hot part of oven first then cooler part to finish. Mrs Lambie, Levenshulme, Manchester. POTTED RABBIT. I knuckle of hough. 1 rabbit. Salt to taste when rabbit is done. Some parsley and 4 whole pepper, and pinch of celery seed tied in a muslin bag. Cover the hough with cold water and simmer gently 12 hours. Allow to get cold, add the rabbit and herb.s, etc., and stew all together until the bones are away from the meat. Remove all bones and the muslin bag, cut up meat very fine, mix it with the liquor and put into wetted moulds, 'burn out when cold and garnish with parsley and sliced boiled beetroot. Sufficient for 7 or 8 persons. E. H. Bell, Edinburgh. RABBIT CUTLETS. Back or fillet of rabbit. i egg. 6 or 8 small slices of bacon. Breadcrumbs. Take the back or fillet of rabbit, skin it and beat flat, cut into 6 or 8 cutlets, placing piece of bacon same size as little cutlet on each, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in boiling fat for 5 or 6 minutes. Serve on mashed potatoes, garnish with lemon slices. M. A. B. H. A. ROAST MINCE (German). ^ lb. mince. ^ slice stale brc.ad. I ‘-■gg- Salt, pepper, nutmeg I tablespoonful cream. Breadcrumbs. 2 iableSpoonfills dripping. Onion and carrot, i tablespoonful Hour.43 Mix the mince, salt, nutmeg, pepper, egg, and steeped and sieved bread thoroughly togetlier, and form the mixture into a sausage shape, and roll well in the crumbs. Then fry it on all sides in the dripping, along with some chopped onion and carrot. Then roast in the oven for about i hour, basting well with the sauce in which it was fried. Before dishing make the sauce thick by adding the flour, cream, and a little water and salt. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. SAUSAGE ROLLS. Pepper and salt. Breakfastcupful of boiling water. 2 lb. of mince. I teaspoonful of dripping. 1 large tablespoonful of flour. Rough puff paste. Put dripping into stewpan and make smoking hot. Stir in mince with a fork until it is all quite brown. Pull to the side and add flour, pepper, salt, and water boiling. Stew gently for 20 to 30 minutes. Turn out on a plate to get qtiite cold. Make rough puff paste with,— I lb of flour. Salt. ^ lb. of butter. Cold water. Roll out to I foot square. Cut into 9 squares. Lay spoon- ful of mince on each. Wet round the edge with milk or water. Turn over first one side then the other with a knife. Close the ends, mark on top. Lay on greased oven shelf, brush over with egg or milk, and bake in a very quick oven for 10 or 15 minutes. The mince must be pretty liquid when hot, so ; that the rolls will not be dry, but it must be quite cold before laying it on paste or the butter will melt. J. Lambie, Edinburgh. SIMPLE WAY TO COOK A RABBIT. Large sprig of parsley. 1^ or 2 cupfuls of boiling water. Some nice pieces of bacon. Soak the rabbit in salt and water for 15 minutes, after wa.shing it. Keep liver, heart and head, removing the eyes. I rabbit. I de.s.sertspoonful of dripping. I onion.u Make dripping very hot in stewpan. Dry the rabbit, divide into pieces, then fry them brown in hot fat. Add the onion and parsley, both finely chopped, then head, heart and liver, salt and pepper. Then pour in the water boiling. Stir gently till it just comes to the boil, put on the lid, draw to the side, and simmer gently till tender. Have bacon nicely fried immediately before dishing rabbit, and place neatly round. SCOTCH HAGGIS. Sheep’s pluck. Sheep’s bag. ^ lb. suet. 2 small leacupfuls of oat- meal. 1 large onion. 3 teaspoonfuIs .salt. 2 teaspoonfuls Jamaica pepper. I teaspoonful black pepper. Wash the pluck thoroughly and boil for i hour, letting the windpipe hang over the edge of the pot. When cold, cut off the windpipe, grate liver, and mince the heart, lights, suet and onion very small. Add the oatmeal, which has been toasted to a golden brown, pepper and salt, and the liquor in which the pluck was boiled. Mix well, and fill the bag rather more than half with the mixture, and sew it up. Place in a large pot of boiling water, and boil for 3 hours, keeping plenty of water in the pot to cover it well. Prick the haggis occasionally to prevent it bursting. (0/d Recipe). Mrs R.^nkin, Sen., Glasgow. SOUR ROAST (German). 4 lb. beef (not sliced. | 3 gills vinegar. 3 gills water. | i onion, pepper, cloves. Boil the vinegar, let stand till quite cold, and add to it the water (equal parts). Wash the meat and onion, and put with the pepper and cloves into earthentvare jar, and cover well with the vinegar and water. Then make perfectly air-tight, and let stand about 4 or 5 days, turning over each day. I dessertspoonful dripping. I dessertspoonful flour. Salt. Pepper. Onions. Turnip. Sour cream.45 Then put the meat in hot fat, and brown on both sides, along with onion, turnij), salt and pepper. Then put on roasting tin and pour over it the gravy and the sour cream. Cook slowly and baste it well. If the gravy dries up, add a little water. For sauce, take some of the vinegar the meat was steeped in, mix in the flour, and cook with the other gravy in the roasting tin. Miss Helen R.\nkine, Edinburgh. SPANISH BEEF STEAK. 1 lb. of beef steak (inch thick or more). 2 oz. of dripping. I onion. I pint of stock. I dessertspoonful of flour. 1 dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar. 3 dessertspoonfuls of cream. 2 teaspoonfuls of salt. I teaspoonful of pepper. Salad oil. Minced parsley. Melt the dripping in a stewpan. Slice the onion and fry it therein, then pour off as much of the fat as possible. Cut the steak into pieces, score them on both sides, dip them in the salad oil, and coat them thickly with minced parsley. Now mix in your stewpan, the stock, vinegar, pepper and salt, with the onion, then into this put the steak. Simmer it gently for 40 minutes. Mix the flour with the cream, and stir in carefully. Simmer for 10 minutes more. This is a recipe frotn a chef of George IV. Miss Gunn, 15 Hill St., Garnethill, Glasgow. SPANISH STEAK. I lb. best steak. • 2 tomatoes. I good sized onion. Pepper,salt, and a little water. Put steak upon a dish (that will stand heat of oven) and put onion and tomatoes sliced in layers over it. Sprinkle with pepper and .salt, add little water. Take in a fairly cjuick oven for i hour. When ready sprinkle a little parmesan cheese over all (this can be omitted if not liked). Serve very hot, in dish in which it has been cooked. Miss M'Crae.46 STEWED KIDNEY. I ox kidney. I oz. of butler. I pint of boiling water. 2 teaspoonfuls of ketchup I tablespoonful of flour. Salt and pepper. Cut the kidney into pieces, make the butter very hot, and fry kidney in it, when brown stir in the flour, then water gradually, until all boils. Sprinkle in salt and pepper, and stew very slowly for not less than 2 hours, adding the ketchup when jusr ready for serving. STEWED BEEF AND BEANS (Jewish). 6 lb. brisket of beef. 2 sliced onions (large ones), i teaspoonful ginger. I lb. French beans. ^ teaspoonful pepper. I dessertspoonful salt. I pint of water. Put the beef into a stewpan with the onions sliced, and the ginger, pepper, salt, and water. Let it stew gently for 2 hours. Add the French beans (cut them first) and stew for I hour longer. Skim off all the fat, and add the following mixture :—2 tablespoonfuls brown sugar; 2 tablespoonfuls flour, mixed very smooth, with J a pint brown vinegar, and boil for 10 minutes. Serve very hot. . Flor.a, Simmonds, 113 Gilmore Place. STEAMED STEAK. I lb. lean shoulder steak. i teaspoonful of salt. I lablespoonful of flour. i teaspoonful of pepper. A pinch of mace. Have the steak cut in neat pieces, dust them with the flour and seasonings, roll round the finger lightly, then place in a jar without any water and steam for 3 hours. E. P. W.VTSON, Motherwell.47 STEAMED HAGGIS. i4 lbs. of liver. J lb. of minced suet. 2 teacupsful of oatmeal. One small onion minced. - Salt and pepper. ^\'ash the liver thoroughly, and boil it for i ^ hours. Let it cool, then grate it. Reserve the liquid in which it was boiled. Mix well together the liver, oatmeal, suet, onion and seasoning, then one cupful of the liquid. Put in a basin. Cover with a greased paper, and steam for 3 hours. J. C., Edinburgh. STUFFED LAMB. I shoulder lamb. I teapoonfuls mixed herbs. Scraps of beef, mutton or veal. 2 onions. A few slices of fat bacon. 2 pints gravy. Forcemeat. Take blade out of shoulder, fill up its place with force- meat and sew it up with coarse thread. Put it into a stewpan with the bacon under and over the lamb, and add the other ingredients. Stew for two hours, and serve with the gravy reduced and poured over. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. STUFFED STEAK. I lb. rump steak (cut thin). i lb. .sau.sages (skinned). I carrot. Piece of turnip. I onion. Pepper and salt. Flour the steak on both sides, lay the sausages on and make into a roll. Tie it together with thread. Melt a small piece of butter in a stewpan and lay the roll into it. Hrown it well all round. Pour in a breakfastcupful of boiling water and a little ketchup. Add the carrot sliced, the turnip cut in pieces, and the onion cut small. Season with pepper and .salt, and stew slowly for hours. Serve on a hot ashet with vegetables all round and the gravy pcjured over. Mrs Wkk'.ht, Edinburgh.48 TOAD IN-A-HOLE. {^Batter Puddhig) i lb. of Hour. X of milk. I egg- Salt. I lb. of sausages. Put dry ingredients into a basin and mix. Beat up egg and add milk to it, then stir in part of these to dry ingredients, just liquid enough to beat. Beat very well, for on this depends the lightness of the batter. Let stand in a cool place for a time. Skin the sausages, by dipping in boiling water. Lay in bottom of greased pie-dish, and pour batter over. Bake in a fairly hot oven about an hour. If getting too brown before the time, change to a cooler place or lay wet sheet of paper on top. Serve either plain or with brown gravy. This dish may also be made with fruit instead of sausages, in which case sugar is added to batter, and less stilt. Mrs J. F. Lamkie, 3 Edgemont Gardens, Langside, Glasgow. TO COOK TRIPE. Tripe. Flour. Onions, or parsley, or both. Salt and pepper. Milk. Wash the tripe very thoroughly in salt and water, scraping away any discoloured or black parts. Put on well covered with water, bring to the boil then pour off Avater and add fresh water. Boil till it can be easily cut, when the water will be considerably reduced. Cut the tripe into small pieces, taking out a piece at a time on to a plate. This prevents cooling it too much or cooling the liquor, when this is done, add the onion finely chopped, then the flour broken with the milk, and cook gently for 15 to 20 minutes longer. Add parsley, pepper and salt 10 or 15 minutes before serving. It should not be thin or w^atery,—is as a rule served hot, but is very nice cold in summer. It can be scraped a second time if required when changing the water, J. Lambie, Edinburgh.49 VEAL AND HAM PIE. I lb. flour. 4 oz. lard. 4 pint water. I teaspoonful salt, lbs. veal. ^ lb. ham. A little ground mace. Salt and pepper and cayenne to taste. A little beaten egg. Put the lard, water and salt into a small pan and bring to the boil, boil for i minute then pour it into the centre of the flour, stirring it first with a knife, then knead it quickly till it forms a paste, roll it out on a floured board into a round cake and place it upon a block of wood or tin or a jar, and work it into a nice smoothness free from all creases. Cut off the edges but let the paste remain on the jar until cold. Cut the meat up into very small pieces removing all skin, season it with ground mace, pepper, cayenne, and salt. Remove the paste carefully from the jar, fill it with the meat and cover with a pastry lid, trim the edges neatly and decorate with the trimmings. Brush it over the top with beaten egg, tie a band of paper round and bake in a hot oven for hours. Use a thimble for decorative purposes. M. A. B. H. A. VEAL CUTLETS A LA ST CLAIR. I lb. veal cutlets. ] Pieces of bacon. Mashed potatoes. Cut the veal in neat cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry them with the bacon. Put the potatoes in the centre of the dish, with the veal and bacon round, and serve with tomato sauce. Season to taste. Miss Stewart Wright, 2 1 Landsdowne Cres., Glasgow. I or 2 small vegetable marrows. I’ep[x:r and salt. YUCHNA. {Stew from Syria). Some rice well washed and Some raw meat minced* (ctiual fiuantities). Hollow out the marrow from the ends, making it open from end to end like a thick walled tube. Mi,x the other50 ingredients together and little more than half fill the marrow with mixture. Place in stewpan and cover with water and simmer gently till quite tender. If more water is required use boiling water. Same mixture is soiiTCtimes rolled in large vine leaves and stewed. Miss M'Millan, North Berwick. MEAT SHAPE WITH VEGETABLES. 6 ozs. of beef cooked and pounded. ^ pint of brown .sauce. J oz. Cox’s gelatine. I teaspoonful of made mustard. 1 dessertspoonful of ketchup. 2 or 3 mixed vinegar.s. I teacupful of cut vegetables (cooked). I teacupful of cut aspic or calf-foot jelly. Soak gelatine in cold water for 5 minutes. Strain and melt it in the sauce or stock. Mix meat, ketchup, mustard and vinegar together in a basin, then stir in the hot sauce and gelatine, mixing with a wooden spoon. Pour all into a wetted mould. Let stand till quite set. Turn out and make a border round it of the vegetables and jelly mixed together, or decorate in any other way. P. Q. R. DELICIOUS DISHES for DELICATE DIGESTIONS DELIGHTFULLY DEVISED By the Aid of — Yorkshire Relish SOLD IN BOTTLES AT 6d., Is., and 2s. each SOLE MAKERS Goodall, Backhouse & Co. I. E E O S Send Id. stamo for Cookery Book, doth bound, 104 pages51 SALADS AND VEGETABLES. BEETROOT SERVED HOT. {By Hnd permission of Brown <L- Polsoti, Paisley). Although beetroot is usually taken cold with vinegar, it is a very pleasant vegetable eaten hot. Boil it till soft in the usual way, taking care not to crack the skin, and serve covered with white or onion sauce. BOILED ARTICHOKES. {By kind permission of Brown <0 Poison, Paisley). ^ lb. of Jeru.salem artichokes. A few drops of fresh lemon Lemon sauce. juice or a little vinegar. Wash the artichokes thoroughly and peel them. Put them on in cold water with the lemon juice or vinegar and enough salt to taste the water, and boil till they are tender, about f of an hour. When boiling, prepare lemon sauce. When tender pour off the water, leaving the artichokes quite dry and free from moisture. Lay on a hot vegetable dish and serve with lemon sauce poured over. BOILED CAULIFLOWER (Au Gratin). Trim the cauliflower, cut it flat at the bottom so that it may stand on the stem, score it across, then steep it in a basin of salt water head down for ^ an hour. Put into a pot of boiling water head down and let it boil rapidly until tender, about I of an hour. Keep the lid off, and put a pinch of baking soda in to keep the leaves green. .Sanee— i 07.. butter. ^ (77,. flour. A hre.Tkfast cup of iiiilk. A 07.. grated cheese. A little salt and pepper. Mix butter and flour over heat, add milk and boil till .smooth. Take from fire and add grated cheese and .seasonings. Pour over the cauliflower. Sprinkle a little grated chee.se over it and put it in the oven to brown on tlie top, a minute tlrjes it. Parmesan clieese is best. T he cheese may be omitted. K. M.52 CABBAGE SALAD. 3 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls of butter. I teaspoonful of salt. I teaspoonful of pepper. I teaspoonful of mustard. 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 6 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk. I cupful of vinegar. Beat eggs thoroughly, stir all together and cook in double boiler. When cold add very finely chopped raw cabbage. Mrs Wm. Jack, Barre, Vt., America. CARROTS AND GREEN PEAS. 8 good sound carrots. 2 lbs. green peas (bottled or fresh). I dessertspoonful finely minced parsley. Clean and scrape the carrots, and cut into rings. Simmer in a little stock for i hour, then add the peas (if bottled they only require heating, so do not add till carrots are tender). Stir in at same time the butter, .salt, parsley, flour, and sugar, and simmer for 5 minutes. 1 teaspoonful cornflour. 2 lumps sugar. Piece butter. Salt. Mrs Marr, Cumbernauld. COLD PLAN (American). 4 head cabbage. Butter, size of walnut. 4 eggs. I pint vinegar. I cup sugar. Cut cabbage very fine, salt and pepper lightly. Put vinegar on stove in stewpan, break 4 eggs in it. Put butter and sugar in until you have a sweet pickle, stir continually until all is a thick smooth paste, rather the consistency of thick cream, which, if boiled enough, will be right. Pour over cabbage. Stir until all cabbage is completely covered. Cover with lid and let stand i an hour before serving. Very nice with fowl or roasts. Miss M‘Connell, Lambertville, N.J.53 COMBINED VEGETABLES. Boiled cabbage and boiled potatoes ; or boiled turnip and boiled potatoes, mashed together with pepper and butter, are very nice, and make the potatoes taste better when they are getting old. J. Lambie, Edinburgh. CUCUMBER SALAD (German). I cucumber. Salt. Pepper. I tablespoonful salad oil. I tablespoonful vinegar. I tablespoonful sour cream. Pare the cucumber, cut it in thin slices, and sprinkle slightly with salt. Leave lying for about an hour, then squeeze slightly and lay on salad dish. Dress with the oil, vinegar, sour cream and pepper mixed together. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. POTATO CROQUETTES. I doz. potatoes. I tablespoonful of butter. ^ cupful of hot milk. Pepper and salt. 2 eggs. Beaten egg. Breadcrumbs. Hot fat. Boil the potatoes and rub through a sieve, or beat light with two forks. Work in while hot, the butter, milk, pepper and salt in the pan, then add the eggs, and continue beating until it is a smooth mass. Turn out on to a dish to cool. Flour the hands and make the mixture into croquettes. Roll in the beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and fry in plenty of boiling lard until a nice brown. M. A. B. H. A. They may also be formed into flat cakes, laid on a greased oVen shelf, scored on the top, brushed with egg, and bake a few minutes in a quick oven. X. Y. Z. POTATOES A LA CREME (French). Chop up .some parsley and green onions; put into a stewpan with butter, salt, and pepper, a spoonful of flour, and a glass of cream. Stir the mixture well until it begins to boil, then put in the potatoes which have been previously boiled in water and cut into dices. Serve immediately. A. H,, Paris.54 POTATO SALAD WITH MAYONNAISE (German). I lb. potatoes. I yolk of egg. Salt and pepper. Small onion. ^ leaspoonful mustard. 1 gill salad oil. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. 2 tablespoon fills stock or water Boil the potatoes in their skins—not too soft—and when still hot, skin and cut into slices and let stand till cold. Mix the yolk, salt, pepper, mustard, and finely-chopped onion together and beat well till quite smooth. Then add slowly, always stirring the one way, the oil and vinegar. Then moisten the potatoes slightly with the stock or water, and add them to the mayonnaise, stirring in well. Sferve cold. Miss Helen R.ankine, Edinburgh. SALAD. I lettuce. I spring onion. Mustard and cress. All, or some of above may dressing, mix in a basin,— 1 egg beat up. 2 small teaspoonfiils of sugar. 2 teaspoonfuls of olive or sardine oil. .The beetroot may be used as Mint. I sliced cucumber. I .sliced beetroot (boiled). form the salad. P"or the I tablespoonful of cream. I egg.spoonful of unmade mustard. Salt and vinegar to taste, garnish. ;s Goodwin, Edinburgh. STEWED MUSHROOMS. {By ktjid permission of Liebig's Extract of Meat Company). J teaspoonful Liebig Coy.’s Extract of Meat. Salt and pepper. 2 ozs. of butter. Skin the mushrooms and fry them in the butter for 3 or 4 minutes, add the water, Liebig Company s Extract of Meat and seasoning. Simmer 3 or 4 minutes or until ^ lb. of mushrooms (medium size). 4 Dint of water.55 tender. Dish neatly, having the mu,shrooms quite whole, and pour round the gravy. Note.—This dish should be garnished with pieces of buttered toast, on which a little Liebig Company’s Extract of ^leat has been spread. STEWED RICE (Mexican). Some bits of bacon. Some bits of onion. Some dripping. Some tinned tomatoes. .Some good soup stock Pepper and salt. Put bacon and onion into a pan and fry brown. Add dripping and dry rice. Let all brown, then add the tomatoes (tinned are best for this) and stock, and simmer until the rice is thoroughly swelled. Add pepper and salt and a dash of Brand’s sauce and pinch of sage. Very nice with cold meat or as a winter vegetable. TOMATO SALAD (French). Plunge the tomatoes in boiling water, remove the outer skin, then cut in slices and remove the seeds. Cut info thin slices some white onions, then arrange alternately in a salad-dish layers of tomato slices and of slices of onion. Salt, pepper, sprinkle abundantly with vinegar, and leave the pickle for 2 hours. Then take out the tomatoes, allow the moisture to drain off, season them with oil a,nd vinegar and serve. A. B., Paris. VEGETABLE CUTLETS- I Uirnip. I carrot. I large onion. Some lentils (boiled and very dry). Chopped parsley. I leaspopnful curry powder. Pepper and salt. I egg. Some breadcrumbs. Boil carrot, turnip and onion, till tender, then mash the first 7 ingredients together, and the egg beaten, to bind it. Shape into cutlets, and dip in breadcrumbs and fry a light brown colour. Miss K. Milne, Portobello.56 VEGETABLE PIE. {B_y kind permission of Liebig's Exlract of Meat Company). 2 lbs. of potatoes. 4 lb. of mushrooms. I onion. f lb. of puff pastry. .Salt and pepper. J pint of water. ^ teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat Cut up the potatoes. Put a layer in a pie-dish, sprinkle over a little seasoning, then a layer of onion (sliced), then mushrooms peeled, and more seasoning, continuing this until the dish is heaped full. Dissolve the Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat in water, and add 2 table- spoonfuls of it to the pie. Roll out the pastry and cover the dish, make 3 holes to ventilate the pie, bake ih hours in a moderate oven. Add the remainder of gravy, and serve. TO BOIL POTATOES. Potatoes cooked in their “ coats ” contain more nourish- ment and flavour than when done without them, therefore it is best to do them in this way when possible. During a greater part of the year we boil them without their skins, and the following way I have found good. They ought, of course, to be well-washed in cold water before removing the skins, which should be taken off as thinly as possible, after which, wash again. Prepare them just before cooking. Have a pan of boiling salted water, just enough to cover the potatoes, and put them in whole. Let them boil hard for I or 2 minutes, then draw to side and let boil gently until the thin skin—made by the boiling water—bursts. Pour off most of the water, leaving enough to steam the potatoes right through. The lid must be close-fitting, and care must be taken that the heat is not strong. When cooked, which can be ascertained by piercing them gently with any sharp article (they should not be broken), pour off any water that may remain, and dry carefully, shaking the pan very gently once or twice, having the lid off. A nice clean dish-towel folded and placed inside the pot on top of potatoes absorbs the moisture. When potatoes are old, they are sometimes injurious. This may be obviated by putting them on in cold water, bring to the boil, pour water off and pour other water on, then cook. JVbPe.—When potatoes are boiled too hard or in too much water, they get broken, and much of what is good in them is lost. J. L.VMiiiE, Edinburgh.SAUCE5, Etc BECHAMEL SAUCE. By kind permission of Charles Herman Senii, Antkor of “ Practical Gastronomy f Inspecting and Consulting Chef de Cuisine, National School of Cookery, London. Made with milk, flour, and butter, flavoured with pepper, nutmeg, and bay leaf. CELERY SAUCE. 2 ozs. butter. ozs. flour. I pint milk. The white portions of 3 or more heads of celery, according to size. Boil the white parts in a white saucepan, drain and chop very finely, melt the butter, stir in the flour smoothly, add the milk and stir until it boils, season well, add the celery and a tablespoonful or two of cream, serve with turkey or fowl. Mi,ss Blyth, Abbotsford, Crookston, Glasgow. CHUTNEY ij bots. brown vinegar. 5 lbs. brown sugar. 7 lbs. hard green apples. .Small pot of tamarinds. 2 ozs. almonds. I oz. chillies. (Burmese). ij ozs. whole ginger. 2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger. 2 handfuls common salt. 4 of small hot. essence of garlic or 4 or 5 cloves of garlic when in season, sliced very thin. Put the tamarinds into a small pan, cover with vinegar to gently heat and soften while you are preparing the other ingredients. Wash, dry, and peel the apples, cut into large pieces. Add sugar, salt, chillies, ginger (the whole ginger bruised and cut into bits), the almonds pounded or minced. Mix all well together, rub the tamarinds through a colander, over the whole sprinkle the garlic, and add the rest of the vinegar, stir well, stand all night. Boil until the apples are cooked, stirring all the time. Be cautious with the garlic, if too .strong it is rather unpleasant, and no water must touch the above.—Burmese Recipe. Miss Gunn, 15 Hill Street, Garnethill, Glasgow.58 CHUTNEY SAUCE. Boil till tender— 3 quarts green gooseberries or apples. 3 pints vinegar. I lb. coarse sugar. J lb. salt, g lb. raisins. A good pi I lb. currrants. 1 oz. powdered ginger. 2 oz. mustard. I oz. ground Jamaica pepper. I teaspoonful nutmeg. I teaspoonful mac’. of cayenne. Chop raisins, currants, and apples. When the mixture has boiled for 20 minutes or half-an-hour, rub through a strainer, allow to cool, and bottle. Mrs Forsyth. DUTCH SAUCE (Hollandaise). For all kinds of Boiled Fish. {By kind permission of Brown Poison, Paisley). 1 heaped-up dessertspoonful Brown and Poison’s ‘ patent ’ cornflour. 2 tablespoonfuls of fish stock. 2 yolks of eggs. 2 ozs. butter. ij tablespoon fills tarragon vinegar. A pinch of mignonette pepper. I small crushed .shallot. The juice of half a lemon. Salt and pepper. Melt the butter and cornflour together, put it in a small stewpan with the vinegar and fish stock. Stir with a whisk until it boils, then add the lemon juice, shallot, and mignonette pepper, whisk in the egg yolks one at a time. Place the stewpan in a pan of boiling water, and continue to whisk until the sauce is smooth and cream-like—it must not be allowed to boil. Season with salt and pepper, strain and serve. EGG SAUCE. {By kind permission of Brown SsT Poison, Paisley). Boil two eggs quite hard about ten minutes; take off the shell and cut into very small pieces; mix this with a pint of white sauce; reheat and serve hot.59 GERMAN HERRING SAUCE. I Yarmouth bloater. I onion. I tablespoonful of flour. I teacupful of milk. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. 2 bay leaves. A little pepper. 2 yolks of eggs. ’ Clean and mash the bloater and chop it very fine. Put a little butter in a stewpan and stew the onion, add flour and milk, vinegar, bay leaves minced, and pepper. Cover and simmer for ten mjnutes, then add the fish. Just before serving add 2 yolks well beaten. Mrs C.A.MERON, 22 Scotia Street, Glasgow. HORSE RADISH SAUCE. Stick of horse radish. I gill cream. ^ Dessertspoonful of mustard. Dessertspoonful of pounded sugar. made i teaspoon ful of suet. 1 tablespoonful of vinegar. Little pepper. Scrape clean and grate a stick of horse radish and put it into a basin. Add to it the above ingredients, mix well together, and serve in a sauce-boat. Miss Goodwin, Edinburgh. INDIAN CHUTNEY. lbs. pears. I lb. apples. I oz. garlic. 14 oz. red chillies. I lb. brown sugar. 2 oz. yellow mustard seed. 2 oz. salt. 4 lb. tamarinds. 24 pints vinegar. I lb sultana raisins. I bottle Worcester sauce. Peel and core the apples and pears, cut up and boil in 2 pints of the vinegar. The tamarinds and sugar should be steamed in a jar with the rest of the vinegar. The chillies are cut up very finely, and the garlic and mustard seed pounded in a mortar. When cold all the ingredients are thoroughly mixed together, then put into wide-mouthed bottles and securely corked and sealed. M. P.Isdale & M'Callum’s 50AP POWDER I Cleanses Everything Works = = = PAISLEY61 LEMON SAUCE. For Jerusalem Artichokes or New Potatoes. (j?)' kind permission of Brown iSr* Poison, Paisley). Prepare a white sauce. After boiling add a dessert- spoonful of finely chopped parsley and the juice of half a lemon. Allow the sauce to heat but not to boil. If an e.xtra hot sauce is desired use a little cayenne or paprika pepper. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. {^By kind permission of Charles Herman Senn, Author of '■^Practical Gastronomyf etc.) A cold sauce composed of yolks of eggs, salt, pepper, salad, oil, and vinegar; a little cold Bechamel sauce or cream is sometimes added. This sauce serves as dressing for salads, mayonnaise of fish, meat, poultry, etc. MAYONNAISE (without Oil). To keep atiy time. 4 table-spoonfuls butter. I dessertspoonful flour. I tablespoonful salt I tablespoonful sugar. 3 eggs. I teaspoonful cayenne. I teacupful milk, i teacupful vinegar. I heaped teaspoonful mustard. Beat eggs, add salt, pepper, sugar, mustard, and vinegar last. Heat butter, add the flour, stir till smooth, add milk, and bring to the boil, then slowly add all to the first mixture, stirring all the time till it thickens like custard. Put, when cool into wide-mouthed bottles and keep in cool place. Miss StENHOUSE. t ONION SAUCE (Brown). J pint of brown stock. 2 ozs. dripping. 2 small onions peeled and i tablespoonful of cornflour. chop(>ed. Put the onions in a stewpan with dripping and fry unti62 they are a nice brown; add the stock, let it boil u[). Mix the cornflour with a little water and add to the sauce. Simmer slowly until the onions are cooked. Season with pepper and salt before serving. Ordinary flour may be used in place of cornflour, and it should be browned with the onions. C. Herman Senn, I.ondon. SIMPLE CUSTARD SAUCE. ^ pint milk. I teaspoonfui sugar. 2 eggs. Vanilla. Put milk into a small clean saucepan, add eggs well beaten, and sugar. Mix all well and stir over the fire till it begins to thicken, but must not be allowed to boil. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. SWEET SAUCE (for Puddings). I tea.spoonful of B. and P’.s. ‘ patent ’ cornflour. I small tablespoon fill of sugar. I small leacupful of cold water. \ little flavouring. A little colouring. Stir the first three ingredients in a little pan over the fire till they have boiled a few minutes. Take from the fire and stir in flavouring and colouring. Pour over or round the pudding or serve in sauce-tureen. J. L.amjue, Edinburgh. TARTARE SAUCE. 2 tablespoonfuls of .salad oil. 2 tea.spoonfuls of made Yolk of I egg. mustard. Tarragon vinegar to flavour. Beat yolk thoroughly and mix well with mustard. Add salad oil very gradually. ^Vhen well mixed add as much tarragon as will bring it to the requisite consistency. Mrs Cameron, 22 Scotia Street, Glasgow.63 TOMATO SAUCE. lo lbs. tomatoes. 1 pint white white vinegar. 2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger. .teaspoonfuls of cayenne pepper. ^ pint anchovy 4 oz. common salt. 2 oz. garlic. 2 oz. shalots or good onion, juice of 3 lemons. 2 pints chillie vinegar. ^ pint Indian soy. sauce. Place the tomatoes in large pie-d'shis in the oven and stand all night. Skim them and put into a large sieve and strain through, and to three quarts tomato liquor put the above ingredients. Boil all together until the onion is tender, strain through a sieve, and boil up again until the thickness of cream, then pour out and leave until quite cold, then bottle, and seal down the corks. M. A. B. H. A. VELONTE SAUCE. (By k27td pC7'missioii of C. Ileima/i Se/i/i, Compiler of ''Practical Gaslro/io//iyP A richly seasoned white sauce, prepared with chicken or veal broth, flavoured with savoury herbs and soup vegetables. When fini.shed it should be as smooth as velvet, hence the name velonte (velvet-like). WHITE SAUCE. (By kiTtd per//iissio)i of Bro%V7i Poison, Paisley). oz. of brown and I’otson’s ‘ patent ’ cornflour. I oz. of butter, i pint of milk. i teaspoonful of salt. ] small teaspoonful of while pepper. i small teaspoonful of nutmeg. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the cornflour till smooth, add the milk, and stir the mixture over the fire till it boils, cook for 5 minutes, add seasoning as noted. To make a richer sauce add 2 tablespoonfuls of thick cream and re-heat without letting the sauce boil again. Pour the sauce over the vegetables and serve hot.64 PUDDINGS, SWEETS, & PASTRY. A FEW HINTS ON MAKING PASTRY. 1. Work in a cool place. 2. U.se very cold water. 3. ^Vhen baking powder is used, bake the paste im- mediately. 4. When baking powder is not used, the pastry rises better if laid aside in a cool place (outside the window rolled in paper), between each folding and rolling. This lets the butter get firm again. 5. When a large quantity of butter is used, if possible, work on a marble slab. 6. The more butter used, the hotter the oven should be. Jean Lambie, Edinburgh. ALBERT TRIFLE. 2 small breakfastcupfuls milk. J lb. sugar. Yolks of 3 eggs. I oz. gelatine. I teaspoonful vanilla. 3 penny sponge cakes. Some nice jam. A few cherries or other cry- stallized fruit to ornament. Soak the gelatine in a little of the milk. Boil the rest of the milk and pour it over the the sugar, eggs, and gelatine, then put all back into the pot and stir until the gelatine is quite dissolved, and add vanilla. Then put a little of all this into a plain mould, put aside to get quite cold, spread pieces of the sponge cake with jam and lay in when set. Then pour rest of the custard all over and let cool. When turned out ornament with crystallised fruit. Miss R. C. Blyth, Abbotsford, Crookston.65 ALMOND PUDDING (Jewish). I Ib. ground almonds. | i lb. castor sugar. 16 eggs. Beat up the eggs for lo minutes, and add the almonds and sugar gradually and beat altogether for i hour. This should have the appearance of thick double cream. Oil 4 dishes, pour the mixture in, and bake for an hour. When they are well baked, they will give from the sides. Do not turn them out till cold. Flora Simmonds. AMERICAN PIES. Pie Crust-—2^ cupfuls flour, ^ level teaspoonful baking powder, i teaspoonful salt, ^ cupful lard. Sift together thoroughly the flour, baking powder and salt. Cut in the lard with a knife. Moisten to a dough with ice water. Roll on a floured board. Another Pie Crust.—J lb. butter, 3 cupfuls flour, I teaspoonful of salt, small teaspoonful baking powder, sufficient ice water to moisten and roll. The secret of making good pastry is to touch it as little as possible with the hand. To make the pies nicer, one quarter of the shortening may be left out, and the pastry for the upper crust can be rolled flat, dotted with butter and lard ; sprinkle with flour, fold together and roll again, repeating this operation until the shortening left out is used. This will make a flaky upper crust, f a cup of shortening can be used with the baking powder. Some prefer lard to butter as making a whiter crust. Roll out the crust to fit the pie-plate. Press it neatly in shape, and then cut off the edges evenly. Take some more of the paste and the fragments left from trimming off the under cru.st, and roll out for the upper crust. Fold this together, and cut 3 or 4 ^-inch slits about -|-inch from the middle. This permits the escape of steam without injuring the shape of the pie. Now fill the pie-plate with the prepared filling. Wet the top edge of the rim. Lay the upper crust across the centre of the pie, turn back the folded-over side, fa.sten the two edges by pressing with the thumb, and cut off the paste even with the tin. Run a pastry wheel around the edge, or simply notch with a fork.66 or leave plain. Bake a light brown and until the filling boils up through the openings. Wet the under crust with the white of an egg to prevent fruit juice, or soft fillings, from soaking the under crust. Apple Pie.—After a pie-plate has been well greased and covered with a thin layer of pie crust as described above, fill up the plate quite full with tart ripe apples which have been pared, cored, and cut into thick pieces Add a small tea- cupful of sugar, dot over with bits of butter, flavour with cinnamon or nutmeg, dredge the top with flour, cover with the upper crust and bake in a moderate oven. Mrs Wivr. Jack, Barre, Vt., U.S.A. A PLAIN SOUFFLE. 1 oz. butler. I oz. flour. I dessertspoonful of castor sujrar. I gill milk. 3 yolks. 4 whites of eggs. Vanilla to flavour. Sift and dry the flour. Melt butter, add flour and milk. Stir until the mixture thickens. Remove from the fire. Add sugar, and yolks of eggs, one at a time. Flavour with vanilla. Fold in the stiff whites of eggs. Pour into a greased tin. Steam gently for | an hour. A. Brunton, Edinburgh. APPLE CAKE. 2 tablespoon fills of castor 2 cloves or a little essence sugar. of lemon. I lb. apples. Cook apples till very soft with sugar and cloves or lemon. Set aside to cool. Paste— ^ lb flour (self-raising). | 3 ozs. butter. I egg and cream. Have a sandwich tin greased. Rub butter and flour thoroughly together, add egg well-beaten, then cream, to make into a stiff paste. Roll out and divide pastry in two. Line tin with paste; put in apple.s, then put the other half of paste on top, bake in a quick oven, and turn out when partly cold. Sift icing sugar over. Miss R. C. Blvth, Abbotsford, Crookston.67 APPLE HEDGEHOG. 2 lbs. small apples. I lb. loaf sugar. 1 pt. cold water. 2 tablespoonfuls apricot jam. ^ pint double cream. I oz shredded 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar I sponge cake. I dessertspoonful grated chocolate. A few drops essence vanilla, almonds. Put the loaf sugar and water into a pan and bring to the boil. Skim and allow it to boil for J an hour. Pare, core, and halve the apples, and put 6 or 7 of them into the pan to cook slowly till soft. Lift on to a dish to cool. Slice down the remainder of the apples. Put them into the pan and cook till quite pulpy; rub through a hair sieve and allow to get cold. Whip up the cream, flavour with the vanilla essence, also sweeten it. Slice the sponge cake, spread the jam on it, lay it into a glass dish. Pile the apples on to it. Spread the puree over them, then pile the cream over roughly. Sprinkle the grated chocolate over and stick the shredded almonds all through it, so as to look like a hedge- hog. R. P. APPLE JONATHAN. 6 oz. flour. 3 oz. butter. I full teaspoon baking powder. 4 apples. I or 2 eggs. A few drops of vanilla essence. Melt butter and pour among dry ingredients, also whisked eggs with essence added. Mix well into a light batter. Have a pie-dish (shallow) greased, with the apples cut up in the bottom and some sugar sprinkled over. Pour in batter and bake in a steady oven. If i egg is u.sed only a teacupful of milk is necessary. Jam may be substituted for the apples. APPLE MERINGUE. 1 lb. of apples. .Sugar to sweeten. 2 eggs. I gill of milk. I’incli of ginger. A little castor sugar. Pare, core, and cook the apples in a little water. Sweeten to taste and pour into a pie-dish. Peat the yolks, add the68 milk heated, and pour this custard over apple pulp. Next whisk up the whites of the eggs with the castor sugar, and pile roughly on the top. Cream may be used instead of white of egg. APPLE PASTIES. I lb. of apples. I lb. of flour. i lb. i lb. of butler, of lard. Make a nice pastry with flour, lard and butter, putting the lard in first. Roll the pastry out, and divide the butter in three pieces, put this on the top of the pastry, fold, and roll out three times before using. Cut the pastry into rounds the size of bread plates. After lining each plate with a piece of pastry, cover with a layer of apples cut into thin slices, with enough sugar according to taste. Then put another piece of pastry on top, and brush over with milk. Put into a quick oven for J of an hour, and if too hot put butter paper on top of pastry. . . Mrs W. Crawford, Melrose. APPLE PUDDING (Cold). I pint of apple puree. I small sponge cake. Lemon juice. I oz. gelatine. 3 ozs. sugar. Soak gelatine in a little cold water, line a mould with the sponge cake cut in fingers, mix the apple puree with the sugar, lemon juice, and gelatine. Pour into the mould and place a round of sponge cake on top. When cold and set turn out and serve with custard. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. 6 ozs. of flour. 3 ozs. of butter. APPLE SOUFFLE. Pasie— Pinch of .salt 2 tcaspoonfuls sifted sugar. I yolk of egg beaten light. Rub butter, flour, and sugar together, add yolk and enough cold water to mix to a paste. Grease a shallow69 pie-dish, and cover with the paste, cutting the edges even, and bake to a pale brown in a steady oven. 14 lbs. of apples. J lb. of sugar. ^ a lemon. Kalifia biscuits. Penny sponge cake. 2 yolks of eggs. A little water. 3 whites of eggs. Fine sugar. Pare and core the apples, add the lb. sugar, lemon rind grated, and juice strained, and stew till soft, then stir in i a dozen Ratifia biscuits and sponge cake crumbled down, and the yolks well whisked in a little water. Stir well over the fire a few minutes to cook the eggs then pour into your paste-dish (which has been gently slipped off the mould) making the apples smooth on the top. Whip up the whites with a tablespoonful of castor sugar, spread evenly over the apples, dust some sugar over the icing, ornament round the edge with Ratifia biscuits and put the souffle in a nearly cold oven just to slightly brown the icing. Miss Hart, Cartbank, Pollokshaws. APRICOT PUFFS. I tin apricots. Batter. Castor sugar. Frying fat. Drain the apricots as dry as you can, roll each firm in * castor sugar, dip each into some rather stiff batter and drop them into fast boiling lard. AVhen nicely brown, which will be in a few minutes, lift out, drain well, and serve piled high on a napkin, with sifted sugar sprinkled over them. M. A. B. H. A. APRICOT TART. 1 tin of apricots. 2 tablespoonfuls juice of apricots. Put sugar, and juice, and boil, then add apricots, stew- cool. 2 tablespoon fu Is sugar. ^ lemon juice and grated rind. emon juice into a pan, let it till tender (lo minutes), then Paste — 6 ozs. flour. 3 ozs. butter. I tablespoonful sugar. A’olk of egg. A little water. Grea.sed tin.70 Mix flour and sugar, then rub in butter, add yolk of egg, make into a stiff paste, roll out and line tin, put apricots over and bake J an hour. Beat up whites of 2 eggs with a tablespoonful of sugar, put over apricots and brown for a minute in oven. Miss Guthrie, 29 Regent Pk. Square, Strathbungo, Glas. AUSTRALIAN PUDDING. I 11). flour, i lb. .stoned raisins, i lb. suet, i pint milb. 3 oz. sugar. 1 teaspoonful mixed spice. 2 teaspoon fills carbonate soda. Pinch of .salt. Mix all the dry ingredients, then moisten with the milk. Put into a well greased basin, tie over a buttered paper, then a cloth, and steam for three hours. Sufficient for 6 or 7 persons. E. F. Beu.. BAKEWELL PUDDING. 6 oz. flour. ^ teaspoonful baking powder. 2 oz. butter. i teaspoonful .sugar. A little cold water. Make into short crust and line a buttered ashet with it. If any paste over decorate the edges with it. Put a layer • of jam in foot of ashet. ij oz. butter. 3 oz. sugar. I dessertspoonful cornflour. 2 eggs. ^ teacupful warm water. Little essence of lemon. Some jam. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add warm water, then cornflour, mix well together, add eggs well beaten, then essence of lemon, pour mixture over jam, sprinkle some sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. Mrs OsLER, Edinburgh. BALMORAL 2 teaciipfuls flour. I teacupfiil soft sugar, f teacupful milk. I tablespoonful butter. I ‘-‘gg- PUDDING. ^ teaspoonful carbonate of soda. I tablespoonful jam or mar- malade. J teaspoonful tartaric acid.71 Put butter and sugar in a basin and beat till it looks like cream, then add the egg previously well beaten, then the milk and flour alternately, beating thoroughly, then the jam, and last the soda and tartaric well rubbed together. Pour into a well-greased shape and steam for ij or 2 hours. Serve hot with lemon or other sauce. Any jam may be used except black currant or damson. Miss Macgillivray, London Road, Edinburgh. BANANA TARTLETS. 3 lb. flour. 4 oz. butler. I teaspoonful of baking powder. The white of 4 bananas. Little sugar (castor). The juice of 2 oranges or lemons egg- Make a good short crust with lb. flour, 4 ozs. of butter, I teaspoonful baking powder. Rub the butter lightly into the flour, add the baking powder, and mix to a very dry dough with water. Roll out and line a tartlet tin or a plate. Decorate the edge with leaves. Cut 4 bananas across, rather thin slices. Lay these in the tartlet layer upon layer, shaking a little castor sugar over when all are in. Squeeze over the juice of 2 oranges (or one large one). Bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. The white of an egg or a little whipped cream on the top may be an improve- ment. T.G., Edinburgh. BATTER PUDDING (Boiled). 3 fresh eggs. | 4 tablespoonfuls c/n'ed flour. I pi«t new milk. Beat eggs, mix with them flour and milk by degrees, that the batter may be smooth. Beat with a wooden spoon for a quarter of an hour. Butter a basin, pour in the batter, dip a cloth into boiling water, dredge it with flour, and tie over the basin, plunge into fast-boiling water, move it quickly up and down for a few minutes, then boil fast for an hour and a quarter. Serve with sweet sauce.72 Sweet Sauce.—Knead an ounce of fresh butter with tablespoonful of baked flour and stir into the third of a pint of boiling milk, add 2 tablespoonfuls of moist sugar, boil 10 minutes, then stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, and pour sauce over pudding. Mrs Brown, 5 Willowbrae Avenue, Edinburgh. BLACK CAP PUDDING. I teacupful of milk. I egg. i teacupful of currants. I tablespoonful of flour. I teaspoonful of sugar. A little grated nutmeg. A pinch of salt. Mix all the dry ingredients together in a basin. Beat the egg and add the milk to it. Pour over the dry ingredients and mix well. Boil for 2 hours. Serve hot with cream. Mrs Brown, Jedburgh. BOILED FRUIT PUDDING. [By kind permission of Marshalf s “ FarolaP) 5 ozs. of suet. 6 ozs. of flour. 2 ozs. of Marshall’s fine farola. Water to mix. Pinch of salt and baking powder. lbs of apples, goose- berries or any other fruit in season. Chop the suet, mix it with the flour, Farola, salt, and baking powder, moisten to a stiff paste with water (about i gill will be required). Roll out the pastry, cover a greased pudding basin with the mixture, fill up with fruit, sweeten to taste, cover with the trimmings of the pastry. Tie firmly in a cloth and boil for 2 hours. BREAD FRITTERS. Cut very thin bread and butter, put raspberry or straw- berry jam between, cut crust, and then cut into fingers. Make batter of 1 egg, 2 tablespoonfuls flour, pinch of salt, a pinch of baking powder, and mix consistency of cream. Dip bread into batter, fry on I)oth sides slowly. Sprinkle castor sugar over them. Osrorne.73 BUTTERED APPLES (French). Remove the hearts of some good rennet apples and fill up with fresh butter and castor sugar. Peel the apples and then put them into a tart-dish lined with butter and sprinkled with sugar. Put in oven and fire equally above and below till the apples are cooked. Serve in the dish with a small spoonful of gooseberry jelly on top of each. A.B., Paris. CHARITY PUDDING. I breakfastcupful stale bread. I pint milk. I teacupful sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls cocoa. I egg- i teaspoonful vanilla essence. Soak the bread in cold water till quite soft, then drain off water and beat up with a fork till bread is quite fine. Mix the cocoa and sugar with a little of the milk into a smooth paste, boil the remainder of the milk and pour it over the cocoa, then add to this the bread, and mix all thoroughly and let it stand till cool. Beat the egg, add the vanilla and stir well among the mixture. Turn into a greased pudding mould and steam for hours. Serve with custard or whipped cream. M. A. B. H. A. CHOCOLATE MOULD. I pint milk. 4 oz. chocolate (vanilla). I oz. gelatine. 3 ozs. sugar. Yolks of 2 eggs. Boil the milk and chocolate together. Beat the yolks and add the milk and chocolate to them. Melt the gelatine in a little more milk and mix all the ingredients together. Stir until nearly cold, then pour into a mould, and, when set, turn out and serve with whipped cream. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. CHOCOLATE PUDDING (German). J lb. vanilla chocolate. Milk, i lb. cornflour. Sugar. Butter. Break the chocolate into little bits and bring it and the milk to the boil, stirring all the time till quite smooth. Mix74 the corn-flour with some milk and stir in, stirring carefully to prevent lumps, then add the sugar and a small piece butter, and stir all firmly till smooth and well cooked; then pour into a mould and stand till cold, and then turn out. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. ^ lb. chocolate. 3 oz. sugar. ^ lb. finger bi.scuits. 4 pint of milk. 3 eggs. I teaspoonful essence of vanilla. 6(1. worth double cream. Grate the chocolate, place it in a saucepan, pour over the milk, and stir all well together until smooth. Crumble the biscuits and add them. Place the saucepan over the fire and stir all till boiling. Allow it to boil for 5 minutes. Take saucepan from the fire and let the contents cool, drop in one by one the yolks of eggs, add the sugar, beat well together. Place the whites of eggs on a plate and with a knife whip them to a stiff froth. Mix them lightly with the other ingredients. Grease thoroughly a mould, pour in the mixture. Cover the mould with a sheet of paper, place in saucepan half full of boiling water and boil for hours. Turn out on hot dish and pour round quickly a little whipped cream. Mrs Grieve, Coillesdene, Portobello. CHRISTMAS PUDDING IN RHYME. {By Mrs John Stevc72son, ChapelhalL) If you wish to make the pudding in which everyone delights. Of six pretty new laid eggs you must take the yolks and whites, Peat them well up in a basin till they thoroughly combine. And be sure you chop the suet up particularly fine. Take a pound of well-stoned raisins and a pound of currants dried, A pound of pounded sugar and some candied peel beside, Rub them all well up together in a pound of wheaten flour. And let them stand to settle for a quarter of an hour. Then tie the mixture in a cloth and put it in a pot. Some people like the water cold and some prefer it hot, But though I don’t know which of these two plans I ought to praise, I know it ought to boil an hour for every pound it weighs. Oh ! were I the Queen of France or, far better. Pope of Rome, I would have a Christmas pudding every day I dined at home. All the world should have a piece and if any did remain. Next morning to my breakfast I would have it fried again.75 XMAS PUDDING. I lb. beef suet. ^ lb. fine breadcrumbs. I lb. flour. I lb. each of currant.s and raisins. I lb. each sultanas and mixed peel. h lb. Demerara. sugar. 2 oz. Grated rind of 2 lemons. 3 oz. sweet almonds. I oz. bitter almonds. I teaspoonful mixed .spice. Pinch salt. Grated nutmeg. 8 eggs. I gill new milk. butter. Mix, while chopping suet, the flour and breadcrumbs. Stone raisins and cut in halves. Wash well currants and sultanas and dry in cloth. Shell almonds and cut up. Grate ofT only yellow rind of lemons. Add sugar, salt, and spice. Mix all well together, then beat up eggs, mixing them with the milk. Pour these into the mixture and mix well. Then melt butter in saucepan and pour in the rest of the ingredients, mixing thoroughly. Now it is ready to put into greased moulds. Cover the top with a piece of white paper, then tie on cloth. Let the water be quite boiling when you put them in. Let them boil for 8 hours. This quantity is .sufficient for 2 puddings. After they have boiled for 8 hours, take them out and let them stand till cold. Take off cloth, leaving paper still on. When required put them once more into boiling water, with a clean cloth on top, and steam for 2 houns. Take out of pot ten minutes before dishing and it will turn out better. COCOANUT AND I break fast cupful Ijread- crumbs. I breakfa.stcupful milk. I orange. ORANGE PUDDING. 2 eggs. 2 large cocoanut. I oz. butter. tablespoonfuls 2 tablespoonfuls sugar. Put cocoanut, crumbs, sugar, and butter into a bowl, let milk be boiling and pour over them, and let it soak for a little, then grate in the rind of orange, add the juice and the yolks of eggs well beaten. Mix all well together and pour into a buttered pie-di.sh and bake in a moderate oven 20 to 30 minutes. Peat up whites with some sugar to a stiff froth and spread over top. L. J. R.76 COCOANUT PIE. To a pint of scalded milk and a teacupful of sugar, the yolks of two eggs and a dessertspoonful of cornflour dissolved in milk. Beat together, cook in the milk, and add a teacupful of grated cocoanut which has been soaked in milk over night. Bake with lower crust only. Mrs Wm. Jack, Barre, Vt. COFFEE BLANC MANGE. 1 pint of milk. i pint strong coffee. 2 oz. gelatine. 4 eggs. 6 oz. castor sugar. Boil milk and soak gelatine in it. Pour this on to the eggs, which must be well whisked, add sugar and pint of coffee. Let it cool, pcur into moulds, turn out and serve with whipped cream. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. CURATE’S PUDDING. 2 eggs. 2 ozs. Hour. ^ pint milk. 2 ozs. sugar. Some jam. 2 ozs. butter. Beat yolks of eggs, sift in flour, and one tablespoonful of milk. Put remainder of milk in a pan with the sugar and butter together, but not to boil. When the eggs and flour are beaten smooth add the hot milk, etc., also the whites stiffly beaten. Mix thoroughly and pour into 4 buttered saucers. Bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. When cooked a light brown colour lay 2 of them on a dish, spread with jam, place the other 2 on top and serve at once. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. DERBY PUDDING. Put a layer of jam into a buttered pie-dish. Cover with stale sponge cakes cut in fingers ; add more jam and more cake till the dish is almost full. Make a custard with the yolks of 2 eggs, ^ pint of milk and a tablespoonful of sugar.Flavour with vanilla and pour over cakes. Let this soak I hour. Then whip the whites of the 2 eggs. Add a very little sugar and vanilla. Spread over the top of the pudding. Place in a quick oven and brown slightly. A. Brunton, Edinburgh. DINORAH PUDDING. 4 lb. of prunes, i lb of breadcrumbs. I tablespoonful of brown sugar. I oz of butter. 3 eggs- Small piece of lemon rind. I tablespoonful of white sugar. A squeeze of lemon juice. 5 to ^ pint of warm milk. Wash the prunes and stew with enough water to cover them, along with brown sugar and lemon rind. When soft take out the stones and lay the prunes on the bottom of the pie-dish Pour over them the mixture of breadcrumbs, butter, sugar, lemon juice, warm milk, and the yolks of eggs, all well mixed. Place in the oven for a short time to firm. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and lay roughly on the top and return to the oven to brown. Minnie Mather, 16 Leamington Terrace. DOWALLY PUDDING. oz, butler. 1 oz. sugar. 2 ozs. flour. f pint milk. 2 eggs. 4 teaspoonful vanilla. Stewed apples. Melt the butter in a saucepan, but do not let it get hot. Stir the flour in and add the milk very gradually, stirring carefully all the time. Let it boil for 3 minutes, then turn it into a basin and add the sugar and vanilla. Beat the yolks of eggs, one at a time. Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and stir lightly through. Put a thick layer of stewed apples in a pie-dish, pour the batter over, and bake for 40 minutes. Miss C. B. Wii.soN, Uowally, Murrayfield.78 DUTCH APPLE PIE. Stew the required quantity of apples sweetened to taste. Add a few currants and raisins and a little candied peel, a few chopped almonds, and a pinch of cinnamon. Take some pulf paste, line a dish with part of it, put in the apples when cold, cover with the rest of paste and bake in a quick oven. C. Sangster. ESSEX PUDDING. 3 oz. butter. 4 oz. sugar. 5 oz. flour. Jam. Milk. 2 eggs. ^ teaspoonful baking powder. J teaspoonful vanilla. Cream the butter and sugar, then drop in one egg, add a little flour, and beat well for a few minutes. Add the other egg and more flour, and enough milk to mix to a smooth creamy batter, which should be' rather thin. Mix the baking powder and vanilla carefully through the batter. Butter a mould, put some jam in it, and pour the batter over. Cover with buttered paper and .steam for hours. Miss C. B. Wilson. FAIRY PUDDING. 3 leacupfuls water. 1 large lemon. 2 tablespoonfuls cornflour. 2 eggs. 3 tablespoonfuls sugar and I sifted sugar. Boil the water, and lemon juice. Pour over cornflour and sugar. Boil for 3 minutes. Beat in the whipped whites of eggs and sifted sugar, and pour into a mould. Serve cold with custard made of the yolks of eggs. Miss StENHOUSE. “FAROLA” MILK PUDDING ozs. of medium or fine i pint of milk, farola (Marshall’s). i oz. of sugar. ^ oz. of butter (]rease a pie-dish with a small piece of butter. Make the milk hot, reserving a small quantity with which to blend theThe Perfect Wheat Foods DAINTY. NOURISHING. “ FAROLA is immeasurably superior to Arrowroot, Corn Flour, Sago, etc. With milk it forms exquLsite pucklings, and in the nursery it will prove a valuable variety which children will take with avidity.’—Liverpool Medico-Chirurgical Jom nal. Awarded Gold Medals at the two Important Inter- national Exhibitions held in 1886—Edinburgh and Liverpool—two years before any imitations were in the mai-ket. FAROLA is a highly-refined preparation of Wheat, which conserves all the nutritive elements and fine flavour naturally belonging to the purest part of the grain. All irritating and indigestible matter has been removed by careful treatment, mechanical means only being employed. FAROLA will satisfy a robust appetite, but it is specially suited for invalids’and children. Is similar in constitution and purity to Farola, but is in the form ot large granules, and is therefore specially suited for making such dishes as Porridge, Steamed Pudding, &c. Samples will be sent free on application p—V •-«—k JAMES MARSHALL (Glasgow), Ltd. 25 East Cumberland Street GLASGOW80 Farola. Cook for 5 minutes, and add the sugar. Pour the mixture into the pie-dish, place a few pieces of butter on the top, and cook in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes. Marshall’s “ Farola.” FIG CUSTARD. ^ lb. fig.s. 4 yolks and 2 whiles of eggs. I pint milk. I tablespoonful sugar. h oz. gelatine. Vanilla flavouring. Wash figs, and put on to stew; beat up eggs and sugar together. Put on milk to heat and pour over eggs. Put into saucepan and heat, very carefully, as it curdles easily— when it thickens take off, and pour into basin. Put gelatine on with a little milk, and melt. Strain custard and gelatine through a strainer, chop figs, and stir among it. To prepare mould, dip first in very hot water, next cold. Pour in mixture, and set in cool place till firm. Miss Macrae. FIG PUDDING. 4' lb. breadcrumbs. 4 lb. self-raising flour. 4 lb. sugar. 4 lb suet. 4 lb sultiina raisins. \ teaspoonful nutmeg. 1 large apple. 4 lb. figs. 4 pint milk. 2 eggs. A teaspoonful of cinnamon. Chop figs and put them in the milk. Let them stand in a warm corner of the range till soft. Put crumbs, flour, suet (chopped), raisins, sugar, chopped apple arid seasoning into a bowl. Beat eggs, add them, then pour in the milk and figs. Mix very well. Pour into a greased mould and steam 3 hours. M. K. Williams. FREE CHURCH PUDDING. 3 tablespoonfuls of flour. 2 tablespoonfuls flour of rice. 3 oz. suet. I apple cut up. I teaspoonful baking soda. 3 tablespoonfuls currants. 3 tablespoonfuls raisins 3 oz. sugar. I teacupful of milk. A little seasoning to taste. Mix altogether and boil for 3 hours. M. C., Edin.81 FREE KIRK PUDDING. 2 tablespoonfuls of each — Raisins, currants, sugar, breadcrumbs, ground rice and flour. Pinch of salt. 3 tablespoonfuls suet. I teaspoonful nii.\ed spice. Little orange peel. J teaspoonful soda. Mi.x with milk, and steam 2 hours. Mrs Mark, Cumbernauld. GINGER PUDDING (American). I egg. I cupful molasses ^ cupful butter. ^ cupful fruit. ^ cupful hot water. I teaspoon ful ginger. I teaspoonful soda. Stir stiff with flour and steam 1 hour. Serve with sauce or sugar and cream. Mostly any kind of preserved fruit will answer. Kate Rogers, Barre, Vt, U.S.A. GINGER PUDDING. 6 ozs. grated bread. 2 ozs. flour. I egg. 4 oz. suet. A little syrup I teaspoonful baking powder. 4 ozs. sugar. 4 ozs ginger. -I teacupful milk, of the ginger. Chop suet, and mix all the dry ingredients, also ginger chopped and syrup. Beat up egg and milk. Stir them in and mix well. Steam for 2 hours. E. J. Wilkie, Grangemouth. GOLDEN SYRUP PUDDING. 6 OZ.S. flfjur. 6 OZ.S. syrup, 6 ozs, suet (chopped fine). I egg. 1 teaspoonful baking powder. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. Mix all well together, butter a mould and steam for 3 hours. A. A. F82 IMITATION EGGS. A nice little Sweet. Cooked semolina, farola or cornflour (without egg). Some preserved apricots. When cornflour is cooked dish it to cool in a large flat ashet wet with cold water. When perfectly cold, cut it into rounds the size of an egg when fried. Lay them neatly on glass dish, and on each put half of an apricot with flat side down, taken straight from the tin. Serve with cream or sweet sauce, flavoured with a little of the apricot syrup. X. Y. Z. JELLY ROLL. 3 eggs and their weight in flour, butter, sugar. I teaspoonful baking powder. A pinch of .salt. 2 tablespoonfuls milk. Red currant jelly and .some glace cherries. Cream butter and sugar till very soft, beat in the eggs one by one and continue beating for 5 minutes. Mix the flour, salt, and baking powder, add these very lightly, then lastly the milk. Spread the mixture evenly over a greased and papered tin (have the paper edge ^ an inch higher all round than the tin). Bake at once in a quick oven 10 to 12 minutes or till spongy and a delicate brown. Turn out brown side down on a sugared paper, spread with jelly and roll up lightly. Melt a little of the jelly and brush the top of the roll with it, put a line of cherries down the centre. O. J. W. LEMON BLANC MANGE. I quart of milk. 3 ozs. ground rice. Yolks of 4 eggs. 2 lemons. ^ oz of gelatine. Make the yolks and i pint of milk into a custard. When done put it into a basin. Put half the remainder of the milk into a saucepan, with the ground rice, butter, lemon rind, and 3 ozs. of sugar. Let them boil till the mixture is stiff, stir occasionally. When done put into the basin beside the83 custard. Put the gelatine with the rest of the milk into a saucepan with 3 ozs. more sugar, Mix all together, and when cold stir in the lemon juice strained, pour into a mould to set till wanted. This “ Lemon Blanc Mange ” is a great favourite. Miss PL.A.CE, 35 Dockwray Square, North Shields. LEMON PUDDING (Steamed). \ lb. flour. I lb. grated bread. lb sultana raisins, i lb. sugar. I lb. suet. I lemon. I egg. I teacupful milk. J teaspoonful carbonate of soda. Mix all dry ingredients and grated rind of lemon. Beat eggs and milk together. Squeeze out juice of lemon. Mix all well together. Grease pudding dish. Steam for hours or longer. LEMON PUDDING (Baked). I large tablespoonful butter. I teacupful of white sugar (fine). 3 eggs. I lemon. 1 dessertspoonful of cornflour. 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. • t Beat butter and sugar to a cream. Add eggs beaten separately, then juice and grated rind of lemon, and last of all cornflour mixed with 2 tablespoonfuls of water. Mix all well together and pour into a buttered tin and bake for I of an hour. Jeannie Ross, Garnethill Manse, 98 St George’s Road, Glasgow. LEMON SOLID. Di.ssolve I oz. of gelatine and f lb. loaf sugar in a pint of milk (for 2 or 3 hours), make it hot, but it must not boil. Have ready the juice of 4 lemons stirred into a pint of cold milk, mix with the hot milk, and j)our at once into a mould. The sugar must be rubbed on the lemon rinds to get the full flavour. Miss A. G. Millar.84 LIGHT PUDDING (Baked). i pint milk. i teaspoonful sugar. I dessertspoonful arrowroot. A little flavouring. Mix arrowroot with cold milk, pour boiling milk on top, return to the pot and stir till boiling. Allow to boil i or 2 minutes, then cool, and add yolk of egg and sugar. Beat white of egg to a stiff froth, add it very lightly, pour into a greased pie-dish and bake till firm and brown on the top. Miss Ethel S. Rankin, i Beauly Ter., Glasgow. LIGHT PUDDING (Steamed). J 07.. flour, j oz. butter, ^ gill milk. 2 teaspoonfuls sugar. 2 eggs. Few drops of vanilla. Separate yolks of eggs. Add to the whites pinch of salt, and beat till stiff. Put butter and flour into small pan, rub together, then add milk, and stir till it leaves sides of pan. Add sugar to thick sauce, then add yolks and vanilla, lastly mix in white of eggs. Pour into greased tin, cover with greased paper. Put into pan of boiling water, don't boil, but steam for 20 minutes. Turn out and serve with jam sauce. Jam Sauce. J pint water. i tablespoonful jam. I oz. sugar. Squeeze of lemon. Boil sugar and water without lid for 10 minutes, add jam and lemon, and let come through boil. Serve tvith above. A. G. Brown, Nurses’ Home, 9 Newington Green, Mildmay Pk., London N. LIQUID CUSTARD. 1 pint milk. Dessertspoonful sugar. 2 eggs. Little seasoning. Take 2 yolks and i white, beat up, but not too much. Heat milk, pour over eggs and add sugar. Strain custard into jar, set in pan of boiling water and stir gently one way until spoon is coated. Then pour into basin. Note.—If to be served cold stir frequently. A. G. Brown.85 LOUISA PUDDING. 10 oz. suet. 10 oz.- flour. ^ lb. ground rice. h lb plums or currants. 4 lb. sugar. 2 ozs. candied peel. ^ teaspoonful ginger. ^ teaspoonful spice. J teaspoonful salt. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 2 eggs. Mix the suet, ground rice, currants, and sugar with the flour, in which you have previously put the spice, ginger, salt, and baking powder, add the lemon peel, and mix the whole with two eggs well beaten up with a little milk, boil for 5 hours in a cloth or basin. Miss Josephine Smith. MACARONI PUDDING. I oz. of macaroni. 1 pint of milk. 2 eggs. Jnice and rind of J a lemon. I oz. of butter. I oz. of sugar. Simmer macaroni in milk till tender. Beat up yolks, sugar, butter, lemon juice and rind, and stir them in. Beat the whites till stiff and stir in very gently. Bake in a gentle oven till brown. J. Lambie, Edinburgh. MARGUERETTA PUDDING. 2 OZ. butter. 2 OZ. sugar. 4 OZ. flour. I teaspoonful baking powder. I egg. A little milk. Kub butter, sugar and flour together; add baking powder and mix, also milk and egg. Butter a mould, line it thickly with jam. Pour in the mixture, cover the mould with greased paper. Steam for i^ hours. Serve with cream or hot milk, thickened with a little cornflour and sweetened with sugar. Anne G. Kerk, 8i Great King St., Edinburgh.86 MARLBOROUGH PUDDING. 3 penny spongecakes. 2 tablespoonfuls jam. 2 oz. butter. 2 oz. sugar. 2 eggs. I tablespoonful water. Flavouring. Cut 2 of the sponge cakes lengthways through the middle, lay in a pie-dish cut side up. Melt the jam and water in a pan and spread over the cakes, lay the other cake on top and spread over the rest of the jam. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add yolks and beat well into them a few drops flavouring essence, then beat whites stiffly and mix gently into the mixture, lay over sponge cakes carefully. Bake in a steady oven until set and brown on top. L. J. R. MARMALADE PUDDING. I breakfastcupful of flour. 1 breakfastcupful of bread- crumbs. 2 oz. of suet. A little I teaspoonful of baking soda. I tablespoonful of sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls of mar- malade. Chop suet finely and put into a basin. Add flour, bread- crumbs, sugar, soda, and marmalade. Mix with a little milk (it should not be very moist). Grease a bowl and put the pudding into it. Cover with a greased paper and steam for 2^ hours. This pudding can be varied by using syrup, treacle, or gooseberry jam, instead of marmalade. Mrs Easton. MARROW PUDDING (Jewish). J lb. of marrow, i lb. of bread. ^ lb. of brown sugar. ^ lb. of ground almonds. 2d. orange flower wafer... Puff paste. Chop the marrow very finely and put it into a basin with the bread which has been soaked in water. Add the sugar and ground almonds, and orange flower water. Mix all well together and put into a dish lined with puff paste, made with clarified marrow. Bake for i hour in a moderate oven. Serve very hot. Flora Simmonds, 113 Gilmore Place, Edinburgh87 MERINGUE RICE PUDDING. I teacupful of rice. I pint of water. 1 pint of milk. I tablespoonful butter, and I or 2 eggs. I lemon. Beat yolks and grated rind of lemon and mix with rice after it is boiled and dry, then add the milk and butter Butter pie-dish, pour in mixture, bake lightly. Beat whites of eggs to a stiff froth and add a cup (small) of sugar, and juice of lemon. When nearly ready put white of egg on top of jam that must be added first. Then bake to a light brown. Miss M. Richardson, 7 Duncan Street, Edinburgh. NEWCASTLE PUDDING. 6 ozs. of rice flour. 6 ozs. of sugar. 4 eggs. A little carbonate of soda. 2 ozs. of butter. 10 drops of almond essence. Put the flour, sugar, eggs, and soda into a basin and beat till very light and white. Beat butter to a cream and add it, also the essence, and beat 5 minutes longer. Butter a mould, pour in the pudding, steam or boil for 2 hours. Mrs Goodall, Glasgow. NUTRINA CREAM CUSTARD. ^ oz. of butter. I egg. A little flavouring. J oz. of nutrina. I pint of milk. I oz. of sugar. Mix the nutrina to a smooth paste with a little of the milk and heal the rest to boiling point.. Pour the prepared nutrina into the hot milk, stirring well, and add butter. Boil for a few minutes and remove from the fire. Beat up the egg and sugar together with flavouring and add. Allow to cool, and serve over stewed rhubarb.—See Advt. NUTRINA PLUM PUDDING. 6 oz. nutrina. 4 oz. sugar. I egg. 5 ozs. breadcrumlxs. 4 oz. chopped suet I apjjle chopped. 3 ozs. flour. 6 ozs. raisins or currants. Milk to mix.Juadies < Please skip this page. It is meant for QetjHemen We understand that your husbands have com- plained for some time that you give them too many Starchy Puddings, such as Corn Flour, etc. Now we wish to get them to ask you to buy something new and good, which will be a pleasant change from these fushionless dishes. See Recipes. A Self-Raising PUDDING ECOHOMICAL, NUTRITIOUS. DELICIOUS. Sold by all Grocers in 2d. and 4d. Packets. Specially Prepared by John Straohan & Sons ABERDEEN,89 Sift all the dry ingredients together. Prepare the raisins or currants and chop the suet and apple. Mix all together with the beaten egg and milk. Stir well. Place in buttered mould and steam for 3^ hours. Serve with milk or cream.— See Advt. NUTRINA MARMALADE PUDDING. 5 ozs. nutriiia. 3 oz. chopped suet. 3 ozs. flour. ^ lb. marmalade. 4 ozs. sugar. Little milk. Sift the dry ingredients together. Chop the suet. Add to the dry ingredients with marmalade and milk. Stir well and place in buttered mould. Steam for ■z\ hours. Serve with milk or cream.—See Advt. OMELETTE SOUFFLEE (German). ^ lb. flour. 6 eggs. 2 ozs. butter. 2 oz. sugar. I breakfastcupful milk. Vanilla essence. Mix the flour, milk, butter, and i yolk of egg together and stir over the fire till thick. When cold stir in the other 5 yolks, sugar, and vanilla, and stir well. Then stir in lightly the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, and pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in oven from 10 to 15 minutes till top is a light brown. Miss Helen B.ankine, Edinburgh. ORANGES AND CUSTARD. Take 2 large sweet oranges, peel and remove as much of the pith as possible. Remove all the pips and then cut the oranges in slices. Line a deep glass dish with these, sprinkling each layer with white sugar, putting it on not very thick. Take one of Bird’s custard powders and make in the usual way with a pint of milk. \\Ten this is made pour it over the oranges. Put the dish aside to cool, and when cold it will be ready for use. Miss Crawford, Melrose.90 ORANGE FOOL. Mix the strained juice of 3 Seville oranges with 6 well- beaten eggs, a pint of cream, some grated nutmeg and lemon peel. Sweeten with pounded loaf sugar, and stir it over a slow fire till it is as thick as a custard, but do not allow it to boil. Pour it, when a little cool, into a glass dish or custard cups. Put sifted loaf sugar over the top.—{Old Recipe). Mrs Dalgairns. ONYX PUDDING. 3 bananas. I doz. candied cherries. I quart milk. ^ cupful sugar. \ cupful water. 4 tablespoonfuls cornflour. A pinch of salt. 2 yolks of eggs. ^ teaspoonful vanilla essence. Put sugar and water into a pan to make a syrup. Choose firm fruit. Peel and slice the bananas, throw into the syrup and cook i minute. Take out with a drainer spoon and cook the cherries in the syrup till they plump up. Heat a quart of milk, mix the cornflour with a little cold milk until smooth, add ^ cup of sugar and a pinch of salt, and stir into the milk. Cook slowly, stirring now and then, till of a smooth cream-like consistency, then remove from fire and divide into 3 parts. Season one part with tablespoonfuls caramel, the second with | teaspoonful vanilla, and stir into the third a couple of well-whisked yolks of eggs. Wet a pudding mould, fill up with the three cooled mixtures in alternate layers. Stand aside to cool, garnish with the cherries and bananas, and pour over a sauce made of the syrup slightly coloured with a little caramel. M.A.B.H.A. PATRIOTIC PUDDING. 4 oz. flour. 2 oz. butter. IJ oz. ca-stor sugar. I egg. 3 tablespoonfuls milk. teaspoonful baking powder. 2 tablespoonfuls jam. Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add egg well beaten91 and milk alternately with the flour, add baking powder last. Put into the bottom of a well-greased basin the 2 table- spoonfuls of jam, pour in mixture, and steam 2 hours. Apples or marmalade are as nice as jam. L. B. France. PATTERDALE PUDDING. Eggs. Sugar. Butter. . Flour. (Two egg.s make a dozen small puddings). Take the weight of the eggs in butter, sugar, and flour. Work the butter to a cream with wooden spoon. Add the eggs, sugar, and flour. Beat well. Fill small cups or tins about half full as the mixture will rise in the oven. Bake about 20 minutes in a moderately quick oven. Serve with melted butter or cream. M. A. Brown, 5 Willowbrae Avenue, Edinburgh. PEARS IN JELLY. I tin pears. ■ | i pkt. raspberry jelly. Whipped cream. Lay pears in a crystal dish. Dissolve the jelly in one pint of warm water (not quite boiling) and pour over pears. When the jelly has set pile whipped cream on top. M. A. Brown, 5 Willowbrae Avenue, Edinburgh. PLAIN NUTRINA BLANC-MAN. 3 full breakfast cups of sweet - '■ Sugar to taste or serve with milk. jam or marmalade. 3 ozs. of nutrina. Mix the nutrina to a smooth paste with a little milk and heat the rest of the milk to boiling point in a large sauce- pan. Remrwc from the fire and mix the prepared nutrina with the heated milk, stirring well. Boil for 10 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into mould and then turn out. vs'hen cold. Serve with milk or jam.—See Advt.92 1 teacupful milk. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. I small teaspoonful of soda. PRINCE OF WALES PUDDING. J lb. flour, i lb. chopped suet. I teacupful of jam (raspberry). 4 teaspoon ful salt. Mix well and pour into a greased mould, cover with buttered paper, and steam for 2 hours. Mrs Petrie, 13 Dunolly Gardens, Ibrox, Glasgow. PRUNE MERINGUE PIE. Prunes. Cinnamon. Lemon. Eggs. Soak, stew, and stone enough prunes to fill a pie-dish. Sweeten well and add lemon juice to taste. A little cinnamon will improve it. Line the pan with good paste, fill with the prunes, and bake till done. Draw the pie to the mouth of the oven and spread over the meringue made of the whites of 2 eggs well beaten with one spoonful of sugar. A.A. PRUNE PUDDING (No. i). j lbs. best prunes. Sugar. Whites of 4 eggs. Cream. Stew prunes till soft in enough water to cover them, with 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. Then take them out, stone them and cut in pieces. Add to them the stiffly whipped whites of egg and the prune juice. Bake the mixture in a buttered pie-dish for 20 minutes. Set to cool. Pile layers of switched cream on top, flavoured to taste. PRUNE PUDDING (No. 2). Stale bread. Stewed prunes. 2 eggs. Sugar. Ground cloves. Milk. Salt. Butter a pie-dish and line it with slices of stale bread, add a layer of stewed prunes (removing the stones), sprinkle with sugar and a little dust of ground cloves, add more bread and continue with alternate layers until the dish is nearly full.93 having a layer of bread on the top. Beat up the yolks with enough milk to fill the dish, adding a little sugar and a pinch of salt. Strain the custard over the pudding and bake in a slow oven till the custard is nearly set. Remove the pudding, cool for a few minutes, beat the whites with enough sugar to form a cream, spread over the pudding, put in the oven till meringue is set. Mrs Lambie, Levenshulme, Manchester. PRUNE WHIP. Boil f lb. of prunes until soft enough to remove the stones. After removing the stones, put back and cook until soft, then add cupfuls of sugar and boil again. When quite cold stir in the whites of 4 eggs well beaten. Bake 20 minutes. When cold serve with whipped cream. Mrs Wm. Jack, Barre, Vt. QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 2 slices I inch thick bread. I pint of milk. 3 eggs. 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar. 3 tablespoonfuls.of marmalade. Grate two slices of bread i inch thick. Keep off crust. Boil I pint milk, beat 3 yolks with 2 tablespoonfuls sugar, pour milk over grated bread, steam for 10 minutes. Switch yolks with bread, pour into buttered dish, bake 20 minutes in oven. Switch whites with tablespoonful sifted sugar. I’um out pudding. Put 3 tablespoonfuls marmalade over pudding. Drop whites on top with knife. Very fine pudding. A great improvement being turned out; much better than the other style of being served in pudding dish. Mrs Grieve, Coillesdene Portobello. This pudding, with the addition of butter, was sent in by another, bat with the name “St Mungo” pudding. J. L. RASPBERRY CUSTARDS. i pint of ripe raspberries (or iam). I egg. I de.ssertspoonful of cornflour. I pint of milk. Rub raspberries through a sieve to remove the seed. Stir94 the cornflour and milk together until quite smooth, add the raspberry puree, egg and sugar if required. Stir over a gentle fire until it thickens, but must not boil. Set aside to cool, then fill into custard glasses and serve. A. G. M. RICE PUDDING for Six (American). I cup rice. I cup of raisins. 3 quarts of milk (new). Butter size of walnut. Cinnamon to cover top of pudding. Sugar to taste. Wash rice. Stem raisins. Put in pudding dish and cover with cold water. Boil until rice is cooked, adding water, but when cooked water .should be absorbed. Then add 2 quarts of milk, the butter, sugar, and finally cinnamon. Put in hot oven (not too hot), stir when the first crust comes on, stir through ; stir when the second crust comes ; and stir when third crust comes; the fourth crust will remain on top. If done properly the rice pudding is the colour of rich cream, and should not be either too thick or thin. Mrs M‘Connell, Lambertville, N.J. ROLY POLY. I good breakfaslcupful flour. J lb. suet. 4 teaspoonful salt. I teaspoonful baking powder. J teaspoonfui Some cold water. 2 good sized apples. 2 ozs. currants. 2 tablespoonfuls golden syrup, cinnamon. Chop suet finely, put in flour, salt and powder in a basin, mix with water to a stiff paste, turn out on floured board, knead a little, roll out. Pare, core and chop apples finely, sprinkle over paste, then currants, syruj), and cinnamon, roll up and sprinkle flour over it. Have a pan of boiling water, dip cloth in it and lay it out smoothly, dust with flour, put roly-poly on it, roll iqj loosely and tie tightly at ends. Put in boiling water and boil i| hours. Turn out carefully,'melt a little syrup and pour round, and serve. Mi.ss J. W. Douglas.95 SAGO PUDDING (American). 4 tablespoonfuls sago. i cup sugar. I quart sweet milk. Yolks of 2 eggs J teaspoonful vanilla. Soak sago over night, stir it into the milk, put into double boiler, and when hot stir in eggs and sugar, steam until thickened. When cold put in vanilla. Beat the whites of eggs until stiff, and drop on top or stir in. Mrs Chas. Mark, Barre, Vt., U.S.A. ST MUNGO TART. 12 ozs. of flour. 8 ozs. butter. 2 ozs. ground almonds. A little cold water. I oz. castor sugar. A pinch of salt. A little lemon juice. Rub the butter very finely into the flour, add the salt, sugar, ground almonds, strained lemon juice, and sufficient cold water to make a stiff paste, knead it very lightly, roll out and cover flat dishes, then fill with the following mixture :— ij Ozs. butter. 2 large tablespoon fuls marmalade. A few drops almond flavouring. 2 tablespoonfuls moist sugar. 3 eggs. I oz. ground almonds. Dissolve the above ingredients in a saucepan, beat eggs well and add also, then pour on to the pastry, after which ornament with cross bars of pastry. Bake in a hot oven 30 to 40 minutes according to size. M. A. B. H. A. SNOW PUDDING (American). 2 tablespoonfuls corn starch. A little cold water. A pint of boiling water. A little salt. 2 eggs. Powdered citrate acid. Mix com Starch in cold water till smooth, add boiling water and salt, then whites of eggs, beaten to a froth, and enough citrate acid to please the taste. Stir thoroughly while hot. Make a custard with the yolks. I teaspoonful of corn starch. | i pint of milk. Flavour to suit taste. When the twtj mixtures are cold, pour the last over or round the first, and serve. Mrs Young, Barre, Vermont, W.S., America.96 SPONGE PUDDING. I breakfastcupful of flour. I small teacupful of sifted sugar. I small teacupful of sweet milk. I teaspoonful of ba 2 eggs. I tablespoonful of butter. Some stewed fruit, rather firm so that the sponge will not sink into it. king powder. Beat the batter with a .spoon and add sugar; switch the eggs in a small bowl and add the milk ; beat in a little flour and a little egg by degrees to the sugar and butter until all used up; put in the baking powder last, then pour the sponge over the fruit in a good-sized pudding dish, and bake until firm and brown. A, A. STEAMED PUDDING. 1 teacupful of castor sugar. 2 teacupfuls of flour. 2 tablespoonfuls of syrup. 2 teaspoonfuls baking powder. 1 teacupful milk. 2 eggs. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, stir in the eggs one at a time, then add the flour, baking powder, and milk. Butter a mould, put in the syrup at the bottom, and pour over the mix- ture. Steam for 2 hours. Miss Hamilton, Alfred PI. RICE PUDDING (Steamed). I teacupful rice; i-| pint skim milk. Boil for ^ an hour. Add 2 oz. shred suet; also 2 switched eggs, with | teacupful sugar and grated nutmeg. Steam in buttered basin for I hour, J. C., Edinburgh. SULTANA PUDDING. I teacupful of self-raising flour. I teacupful of breadcrumbs. I teacupful of sugar. I tablespoonful treacle. I teacupful sultana raisins. 3 oz. of butter. A little ginger, cinnamon, and mixed spice. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin and rub in the butter, then the treacle. Beat up the egg, and mix it well with the others, and lastly sufficient milk to moisten. Put the pudding in a covered tin and steam for 3 hours. Mrs D. Pratt.97 SWEET OMELETTE. 6 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of cream. 2 oz. of fine sugar. 2 dessertspoonfuls clear apricot or strawberry jam. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the cream, sugar and jam; then beat the whites to a stiff froth and mix well before you put the mixture into the pan. Fry about 8 minutes. Slide into a dish, sift sugar over, and serve immediately. Miss Ros,s,- Garnethill Manse, St George’s Rd., Glas. SWISS PUDDING. 1 breakfastcupful of breadcrumbs. 2 ozs. suet. i lb. sugar. I lb. of apples. A little nutmeg. A little water. Peel and slice the apples, and stew with i tablespoonful of sugar and a little water to keep them from burning. Mix in a basin the breadcrumbs, suet, nutmeg, and the remainder of the sugar. Grease a deep pie-dish and put in the bottom half of the mixture from the basin, then the stewed apples and the remainder of the mixture on the top, make it smooth. Bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. SYRUP PUDDING. I teacupful of flour. i lb. of currants. I breakfastcupful grated bread. i lb. suet. I teacupful butter milk. 1 tablespoonful sugar. 2 lablespoonfuls syrup.. 4 teaspoonful carb. of soda. I teaspoonful cinnamon. Chop .suet, wash and dry currants. Mix these in a basin with all dry ingredients, then mix syrup and milk and stir in. Pour into greased mould and cover with a greased paper. .Steam 2 hours. E. J. WiLKiK, Grangemouth o98 TAPIOCA CREAM. 1 pint new milk. i table.spoonful sugar. 2 tablespoonfuls tapioca. 2cl. worth of cream. Allow milk and tapioca to cook slowly at the side of the fire for 3 or 4 hours, stirring occasionally to prevent burning. Allow to cool, add sugar and cream, and serve with stewed fruit. Mrs Osler, Edinburgh. TO MAKE SHORT CRUST PASTRY. 6 or 8 ozs. of butter or white dripping (shortening). if for fruit. A pinch of salt Sugar to sweeten More salt Vrf i No sugar. J }■ I lb. of flour. I teaspoon ful of baking powder. Enough cold water to make all just come from the basin. Put flour, butter, salt and sugar into a basin, and rub lightly between tips of the fingers until they look like bread- crumbs. Add the baking powder and mix well, then with a fork and cold water make into paste. Turn on to a board with just enough flour to keep paste from sticking to the board. Flour hands slightly, lift paste, turn in edges down- ward until top is smooth and no cracks. Roll out very lightly, to the desired size and thickness, using as little flour as possible. Bake in a pretty hot, but steady, oven. No time must be lost after pouring the water amongst the dry ingredients, because from that moment the strength of the baking powder begins to go off. Note.—Can be made without baking powder, by using more butter when a few drops of lemon juice are added. J. Lambie, Edinburgh. ■ TO MAKE ROUGH PUFF PASTRY. I lb. of flour. 8 to 12 ozg. butler (shortening). A little lemon juice. Salt or salt and sugar (see Short Crust). Cold water. Lay all but the water on the board, and cut butter amongst the flour, into pieces the size of a large bean— in block shape, not thin. Put into a basin, and with fork and cold water, and lemon juice, make into paste which is99 almost wet enough to stick to the basin. Turn out on to a well-floured board, for the butter being in pieces is more apt to stick to the board, then with well-floured hands make it square and flat If any butter shows, dust flour on lightly. With floured rolling-pin roll one way—to and from you— until the paste is about a foot long. Make it straight at the sides and corners square. Fold first one end over, then the other, quite evenly, making it three-fold. Turn it round half, making the edges look to and from you. See that all is well-floured. Press down with rolling-pin the two ends to make the layers stick and keep in place, and then roll out lightly again as before. Roll out and fold four times, but the last time just fold paste double and then roll the required size and shape. . It must not be rolled anyway but to and from you until folding is all done. A yolk of egg can be used also in mixing, but good pastry can be made without it. Bake in a very hot oven. J. Lambie, Edinburgh. TO MAKE PUFF PASTRY. i lb. of flour. I I yolk of egg. 41b. of butler. | A little lemon juice. Cold water. Squeeze the butter in a towel to free it of all water. Lay flour on the board, or better, a marble slab, making a well in the middle, into which stir the egg, water, and lemon juice, beaten together with a fork until it is a firm smooth paste, using more water if it is required. Knead if necessary to make it smooth, then roll it out into a thin paste, oblong, but square at the corners Make the butter in the towel flat and square also, and almost half the size of the paste. Lay it on one end of the paste and fold over the other end on the top of the butter, and press edges together to keep butter in. Turn half round and proceed to roll, fold and turn as \vith rough puff pastry, but do so seven times instead of four, folding double last time, and roll out the required thickness. Bake in a very hot oven, otherwise the butter will just melt and run out. J. Lambie, Edinburgh.100 TRIFLE. 4 sponge cakes. I breakfastcupful cream. I teacupful milk. I lemon. Some jam and flavouring (as desired). I or 2 eggs. Some sugar. Put a dessertspoonful of sugar in basin with cream, and whisk briskly. Idft froth with a spoon, and put it on to a sieve which has a piece of muslin over it. Proceed in this way till all cream is used up, always putting back what drops through into the basin again. Boil milk, beat up eggs, with a teasjtoonful of sugar. When milk is boiling add r tea- spoonful of flavouring, pour milk over the eggs and put back into the pan to thicken, but do not boil, then let it cool. Scjueeze juice of lemon, put into a small pan, with 2 table- spoonfuls of water and large tablespoonful of sugar. Put on to boil, let it cool. Put sponge cakes into a glass dish cut into halves, soak with the lemon, spread over with jam, pour over the custard. Pile cream on leaving it rough-looking on top, sprinkle with pink sugan Miss Guthrie, 29 Regent Park Square, Strathhungo, Glas. UNCLE TOM’S PUDDING. i lb. treacle. 5 lb. of flour. 6 ozs. suet. 2 ozs. brown sugar. I teaspoonful ground ginger. 2 eggs. I teaspoonful ground cinna- mon. I teaspoonful allspice. I teaspoonful carb. of soda, i teacupful of buttermilk. Heat the treacle in a basin and mix in it the flour, suet, sugar, ginger, cinnamon, spice and soda. Beat up the eggs and mix them with the buttermilk, and add to the other ingredients. Mix all together and pour into a buttered mould, and boil for 2 hours. Serve with egg sauce. Miss Hood. VANILLA SPONGE. I packet vanilla jelly. | 3 whites of eggs. ^ leaspoonful sifted sugar. Dissolve jelly in i pint boiling water. Leave till cool.101 Whisk up the whites of eggs, to which add sifted sugar. Beat eggs and jelly together for ^ an hour, then pour into wetted mould. VENNOISE 5 ozs. bread (crusts taken away). 1 lb. sugar. li breakfastcups of milk. PUDDING. lb. .sultana raisins. h a skin of lemon peel. 3 eggs. Juice and rind of small lemon. Cut the bread into dice. Brown i tablespoonful of the sugar in pan over the fire. Put all dry things into a basin. Beat up all the eggs. Pour the milk into the pan after the sugar is browned, to dissolve it. Then pour into the basin and mix all well. Butter and sugar a mould and line* it with cherries or blue raisins; pour in the mixture, cover with a buttered paper and steam for 2 hours. Serve with custard sauce. Miss Hart, Cartbank, Pollokshaws. VICTORIA PUDDING (No. i.) I lb. flour. I lb. suet. I lb. currants. I lb. of raisins. I lb. raw potatoes (grated). 1 lb. caiTot. ^ lb. mixed peel. 2 nutmegs. Boil 6 hours, and again 2 hours the day it is for use. Osborne. VICTORIA PUDDING (No. 2.) J ox. of gelatine. 1 English pint of milk. 2 ozs. loaf sugar. 2 eggs. Some preserved cherries. Few drops of essence of ralifia. Dissolve gelatine in the milk in a lined or brass pan, add .sugar, and boil i or 2 minutes. Beat yolks of eggs v,fith a very little milk, add them to the gelatine and milk, and again let it boil r or 2 minutes. Draw to the side and add the e.ssence, then the whites of the eggs, previously beaten to a .stiff froth—quickly add, but don’t boil—and at once pour into a mould which has stood sometime filled with cold water, and then decorate at the bottom with cherries. Mrs Durham, Portobello.102 UPTON PUDDING. 2 lablespoonfuls sugar. J pint of milk. 2 apples. i oz. of butter. I teacupful large sago. A little ground nutmeg. Wash sago, add all except apples, and boil till nearly cooked. Pour over cut up apples in pie-dish, in layers, apples, then sago, then apples till dish is full. Put some bits of butter on the top and bake in slow oven. Miss Stenhouse. WATER 10 tablespoonfuls water. 2 tablespoonfuls flour. 3 eggs- Boil water, butter, and and lemon. Last of all at bake ^ an hour. PUDDING. 2 ozs. butter. I oz. sugar. Rind and juice of a lemon. flour, stirring well. Add sugar id eggs, beaten separately, and WINDSOR PUDDING. :i lb. breadcrumbs, f lb. apples (chopped fine). -| lb. sultana raisins. Cherries. J lb. suet (minced). 3 ozs. .sugar. 2 eggs. Beat the ingredients well together with 2 tablespoonfuls milk. Then pour into a plain mould, well buttered, and ornamented with cherries, and steam for 2^ hours. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. J lb. flour. 2 eggs. I pint of milk. A little salt. Put the flour into the basin with the salt added, break the eggs and put them into the middle of the flour, add the milk little by little, beating well all the time until it is quite smooth. Allow the batter to stand about i hour before using it, as it is improved by standing. When the meat is more than half done, take it out of the tin, pour off the dripping, put in the batter, and the meat on a stand over it. Cook for about ^ an hour in a hot oven. Serve in even squares with the meat. G. E. I.103 CREAMS AND JELLIES. APPLE CREAM. Boil 12 large apples in water till soft, take off the skins, and press the pulp through a hair sieve upon half a pound of pounded loaf sugar. W'hip the whites of 2 eggs, add them to the apples, and beat all together till it becomes very stiff and looks quite white. Serve it heaped up on a dish.— {Old Recipe.) Mrs Dalgairns. APRICOT CREAM. I oz. gelatine. i pint double cream. ^ pint milk. i tin apricots. Dissolve I oz. of gelatine in ^ pint of milk very slowly over the fire. Put the apricots, cut into small pieces, with 2^ tablespoonfuls of their syrup into a bowl, and 2 dessert- spoonfuls of castor sugar. Whip the cream to a stiff froth and pour it over the apricots. When the gelatine and milk are di.s.solved, let them cool before adding to the apricots and cream. Stir well together. Wet a mould with cold water and pour in the contents of basin. Put in a cool place to set. Mi.ss Goodwin. ASPIC JELLY. {By kind permission of J. A: G. Cox, Ltd.). li OZ.S. Cox’s gelatine. I carrot. I teaspoonful of .salt. Kind and juice of i lemon. 1 tablespoonful of Taragon vinegar. 6 or 8 white peppercorns. 2 small peeled onions. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. 1 tablespoonful of malt or French vinegar, gills of cold water. A few allspice berries. A little cayenne pepper. Enough celery seed to cover a threepenny bit. Soak the gelatine in the water for 10 minutes, then put ail the ingredients into a stewpan and whisk over the fire until it boils. Let simmer for 10 minutes and .strain through a clean coarse cloth previously steeped in hot water. This104 cloth should be tied into a soup stand or on the legs of a chair reversed. Return the jelly through the cloth until clear, each time placing a clean hot basin underneath instead of the one removed. Pour into a mould and use as recjuired when set. Note.—When required for cutting into leaves, etc., for decorative purposes, set in flat plates J inch deep, when some may be coloured with a few drops of Cox’s cochineal. BANANA FOAM. Bananas. Lemon juice. Castor sugar. Cream. Take some quite ripe bananas, peel and break them up, dust well with sugar and a suspicion of lemon juice, then pour thick cream over them and stand on ice till wanted. This is an admirable substitute for that summer dainty, strawberries and cream. M.S. CALEDONIA CREAM. 2 ozs. raspberry jam. | 2 tablespoonfuls powdered The whites of 2 eggs. | loaf sugar. Beat well together until very stiff. Pile high in a glass dish to serve. Mrs Matthew Downie, "Wickham, New South Wales, Australia. CHARTREUSE OF GRAPES. {By kind permission of 1^ pkts. of lemon jelly, using 4 oz. more gelatine except in very cold weather. \ lb. black grapes. I tablespoon ful of ^ <t G. Cox, Ltd.). ^ lb. white grapes. I gill of whipped cream, slightly sweetened with castor sugar. ;iox’s gelatine. Dissolve the tablespoonful of gelatine in sufficient water to cover it, and when cold mix with the sweetened cream. Pour about 2 inches of jelly into a plain mould, and, when beginning to set, line with alternate layers of black and white grapes. Cover them with jelly and let set. Now place a small bottle, having been dipped in cold water, on the top.105 in the centre of the mould, put a spoonful of jelly round and layers of grapes, adding jelly to set them until the mould is full. When quite firm pour hot water into the bottle and remove it from the jelly. Fill up the space thus made with the cream and dissolved gelatine. When firm, turn out quickly on to a cold dish, and serve. Chartreuse of straw- berries, bananas, or other fresh ripe fruit can be prepared in the same manner. GINGER CREAM. i pint double cream. 2 eggs. 4 ozs. preser^•ed ginger. X dessertspoonful sugar. h oz. gelatine. I tablespoonful syrup of ginger. Soak gelatine in little water, separate yolks from whites, beat whites stiffly, put sugar with yolks, beat together till smooth. Boil milk and dissolve gelatine in it, pour over yolks, stir gently, return to pan, add ginger cut in small dice, stir till thick over the fire, add syrup and whites, and pour into a wetted mould. Turn out when cold. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. GOLD LEAF JELLY. (By kind permission of J. <t G. Cox, Ltd.). I quart of lemon jelly. | 6 to 8 gold leaves. (When buying, state for culinary purposes, as gold leaf should be pure). Mould the jelly in the usual manner and place the mould on ice in the coolest place available, put in the gold leaves and stir with a fork until the jelly begins to set and the leaves are broken up and evenly distributed in the jelly. Let stand till quite .set. HONEYCOMB CREAM. Soak I ounce of gelatine in 3 breakfastcupfuls of milk till .soft. Place all in a double saucepan till warm and the gelatine is c|uite dissolved, add lump sugar to taste. Beat the yolks xxf 3 eggs, add them to the milk slowly, and heat till thick. Flavour with teaspxxonful of vanilla flxivouring, take the pan off the fire, add the well-bexiten whites of the 3 eggs, stirring as little as possible, but just enough to mix the106 whites of the eggs into the pudding. When the mixture is nearly cold pour into a mould and leave till set, then turn out. This pudding has the appearance of being half a jelly and half a cream. Miss Josephine Smith. LEMON CREAM. I oz, castor .sugar. I teaspoonful Cox’s lemon e.ssence. 2 lemons. Soak the gelatine in a little cold milk for about 15 minutes and then dissolve over the fire. Peel the lemon thinly and put with the cream and the rest of the milk into a covered stewpan and let it stand in a gentle heat for i hour, taking care to heat it slowly and not allow it to boil. Remove the peel, add the sugar, and strain in the gelatine. When cool strain in the juice of i lemon and add essence. Pour into wetted mould. Set aside until firm, then turn out on a cold dish, and serve. Annie M'Vicar, Glasgow. $ oz. gelatine. ^ pint cream, i pint milk. LEMON JELLY. (/?j' Mild permission of J. cO G. Cox, Ltd.). i ^ to 2 ozs. gelatine (according to temperature), li pints cold water. ^ pint lemon juice. 6 ozs. loaf sugar. The shell crushed. I inch cinnamon. 3 cloves. The rinds of 4 lemons thinly cut. The white of i egg whisked. Soak the gelatine in the water for about 10 minutes, then put all the prepared ingredients into a saucepan together over a slow fire. Whisk until it begins to boil, allow to boil well up without stirring, and then simmer for another to minutes or more. Strain through a clean scalded cloth. Return through the cloth until clear, each time putting a basin rinsed with hot water underneath. When blear, set in a mould wetted with cold water and let stand till firm. It is recommended that this jelly should be .set in ice. To serve, dip the mould for one moment in hot water and turn out quickly on to a cold dish.107 LEMON MILK JELLY. 1 on. gelatine, S lb. loaf sugar. 2 eggs. I pint new milk. 2 lemons. Put the rind of one lemon into the milk and bring to the boil. Have the gelatine .soaked in ^ pint cold water i hour previously. Whisk the eggs well, put the sugar and gelatine into a large basin, strain the milk over it and stir till cold, add the juice of the lemons and put into a mould. Miss A. M. Bell, Balerno. NORWEGIAN CREAM. 2 eggs. J oz. gelatine. 4 ozs. castor sugar. 6 drops essence of vanilla. Separate whites from yolks of eggs and beat well with half the sugar in each. Mix both together, add gelatine (previously dissolved in i teacup of boiling w'ater), and vanilla. Mix and pour into a glass dish. When set, spread jam on it and pile whipped cream on the top. Elizabeth M. B. Williams, Hutcheon House, Sherbrooke Avenue, Glasgow. ORANGE JELLY. (By kind permission of /. <0 G. Cox, Ltd.). 3 ozs. Cox’s gelatine, i pt. orange juice. ^ pt. water. 3 ozs. loaf sugar. Juice of I lemon. Rind of 2 oranges thinly cut. Put the gelatine in the water and soak for lo minutes. Add the thinly cut orange rind and sugar and bring to the boil. Take off the fire and let this stand by the side to extract the flavour. Put the orange and lemon juice into a ba-sin and .strain the di.ssolved mixture into them. Pour into a mould wet with cold water. This jelly is never cleared as it spoils the flavour. It .should be bright and transparent, but not (|uite clear. Some sections of orange, freed from skin and pith, may be u.sed for garnishing the top of the108 mould. By bringing the juice first to the boil and pouring through clean muslin, together with the dissolved gelatine, the jelly is rather clearer. SNOW SHAPE. I 07,. gelatine. 12 drops vanilla. 6 ozs. sugar. 3 whites of eggs. Put the gelatine into a teacupful of cold water for an hour or two, then add i teacupful of boiling water. When quite dissolved add sugar, vanilla, and whites of egg. Switch for 20 minutes or so, until it begins to set, and pour into a wet mould. Turn out when quite firm. Mrs Cunningham, Trinity. SPANISH CREAM. I egg. I pint milk. i oz. gelatine. 2 dessertspoonfuls sugar. I teaspoonful vanilla. Steep gelatine in a little cold water, separate yolks from whites, beat whites stiffly. Put the sugar with the yolks and beat together till smooth. Boil milk and dissolve the gelatine in it, pour over yolks, stir lightly. Put back into pan and stir till thick over fire. Pour into basin, add whites and vanilla, stir gently, pour into wetted mould. Turn out when cold. “Cvnica,” Liverpool. STRAWBERRY CREAM. I oz. isingla.ss. 4 pint of water. I pint cream. ^ lb. sifted .sugar. 4 rind of a lemon. J pot strawberry jam. J pint milk. JVbie.—A little carmine may be added. Dissolve isinglass in water pint) and strain it. Beat the cream with | lb. sifted sugar and the lemon. Beat | lb. pot of strawberry jam in | pint of milk, then strain through a sieve. Mix all the ingredients and whisk until a sponge, then put in mould to set. Miss K. C. Blyth, Abbotsford Crookston, Glasgow.109 VANILLA CREAM SHAPE. I oz. gelatine. I 2 tablespoonfuls powdered 6d. worth double cream. | sugar. Vanilla or other flavouring desired. Soak gelatine in sufficient milk to dissolve it, then strain it. Switch the cream till thick (about 10 minutes), add sugar, gelatine, and flavouring, being careful to stir gently with a wooden spoon. Put into a wetted mould to set. JE.A.NN1E Ross, Garnethill Manse, 98 St George’s Road, Gla.sgow. ELLIOTT’S IRISH Beautifully made from Cambric, Nainsook, or Horrockses Longcloth.s, by expert employees from the North-west districts of Ireland, where fine sewing has been an important industry for generations. Nightdresses, 4/11, 5/11, 6/11, 7/6, 8/11.12/11 Chemises 1/11, 2/6, 2/11, 3/11, 4/11, 7/6 Knickers 1/11, 2/6, 3/6, 4/6, 4/11 Prettily Trimmed Torchon Lace, Val. L.ace, or Embroidery “The Erin Set,” Nightdress, Chemise, Knickers, Horrockses Longcloth, Hand-made, beautifully trimmed Val. Lace, Insertion and Ribbon, 25/6 Orders of 20 - and upwards Carriage Paid Price Lists Free ELLIOTT BROS., 138 Dublin Road, Belfastno SAVOURIES. FOR BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, OR SUPPER. A LIGHT LUNCHEON DISH. Prepare and fry some ordinary pancakes. Just before serving have some scrambled eggs ready, in which put plenty of freshly-chopped lean cooked ham. Spread the cooked egg mixture on each pancake, roll and cut in halves, serve on napkin. This dish must not stand long. Mrs Mussen, Balmoral Castle. ANCHOVY EGGS. 3 hard-boiled eggs. 3 leaspoonfuls anchovy sauce. 2 ozs. butter. 8 toast biscuits. Pepper. Cayenne and salt. Cut eggs in hah es, take out yolk and pound it till smooth, add seasonings, salt, and a little butter, beat well, and then refill the whites. Serve hot on hot buttered biscuits. Mrs OsLER, Edinburgh. AN EXCELLENT SUPPER DISH. Put piece of butter size of walnut into saucepan, slice a Portugese onion into it, and let simmer for 5 minutes, then cut a quarter of pound of cheese into small bits and put it in, pour in half a cup of sweet milk, and stir well until all is melted. Add a little salt and cayenne pepper (if liked), beat up I egg and pour over, stir well for 2 minutes, and serve hot. Very delicious. Mrs Nairn, 9 Stuart Street, Shawlands, Cdasgow.Ill BAKED MACARONI (Mexican). Boil macaroni in plenty of salted water until very tender. Into a baking dish put a layer of macaroni and lay oyer it bits of butter, grated cheese, slices of onion, and either tomato sauce or tinned tomato. Fill up the dish with layers in this manner and then pour over sufficient milk and well- beaten eggs to fill the dish. Bake for | of an hour and serve ver}' hot. BIRD’S NESTS. Boil 4 fresh eggs lo minutes, put them into cold water and shell. Skin 4 sausages. Roll out sausages on floured board, roll up hard-boiled eggs in sausage meat, then roll in egg and breadcrumbs. Fry in boiling fat. Halve them and stand up arranged on dish with parsley. OSBORNH. BREAKFAST DISH. 2 lbs. of veal cutlets. | 5 eggs. Sweet herbs. Stew the veal cutlets in good gravy. IVet a pie-dish. Line it bottom and sides with slices of hard-boiled eggs. Cut up the meat and put it in layers, first meat sprinkled with herbs, then slices of egg, and so on till the dish is full. Fill the dish by spoonfuls of gravy. Stand it in a stewpan uncovered, and boil for half an-hour. Let it get cold and turn out. Mi.ss Josephine Smith, I St Mary’s Villas, Chiselhurst, Kent. BUTTERED OR SCRAMBLED EGGS. 2 eggs. I tablespoonful butler. I’epper and salt. i slice of toast. Put the butter into a saucepan, and, when it is melted, add the eggs, well beaten, with pepper and salt, and stir continually until a thick creamy substance appears—about 2 minutes. Have ready a slice of hot buttered toast. Pile the eggs on top and serve hot. Mrs Sutherland.112 CELERY CREAMS (Savoury). ^ doz. lunch biscuits or some small rounds of brown bread. Small quantity of double cream. I oz. grated Parmesan cheese. A few grains cayenne. Salt. Few pieces of shredded celery. Whi.sk cream until cjuite stiff. Mix with it the cheese, seasonings, and a little chopped celery. *A little anchovy if liked may be added. Force small heaps of this mixture through a forcing bag on to biscuits or bread rounds, and stick some shreds of celery on top. Mrs Murray, Mayfield, Melksham, Wilts. CHEESE SOUFFLE. I oz. butter. I oz. flour. I gill milk. ^ teaspoonful salt. 3 ozs. grated cheese. 3 yolks of eggs. 4 whites. Cayenne and white pepper. Mix butter and flour in small saucepan over the fire, add the milk, and stir till it boils and thickens. Take from fire and add the seasonings, the cheese, and the yolks one by one. Have the whites stiffly beaten and stir in gently. Pour into a buttered pie dish and bake in a quick oven for 20 minutes. Serve at once. Miss He-len Rankine, Edinburgh. CONVENT EGGS. Boil 4 eggs hard. Peel and slice an onion. Put into a frying-pan i oz. butter, when melted add the onion, and fry white. Add a teaspoonful of flour, mix it well, add about ^ pint of milk, stir it till it forms a nice white sauce, add pepper and salt When nearly done add the eggs cut into 6 pieces crossways, and serve hot on toast. Miss A. M. Bell, Balerno. DURHAM CUTLETS. ^ 11). of cold meat. I oz. of butter, i teaspoonful of .salt. I teaspoonful of parsley. I i-'gg- I I oz. of flour. I J pt. of stock. I teaspoonful of pepper. I teaspoonful of ketchup. 1 lot fat to fry. Breadcrumbs.113 Cliop meat and parsley, melt the butter in a pan, add the flour, then stock gradually, stirring till it boils and thickens. Then add chopped meat, parsley, salt, pepper, and ketchup, and mix well, then turn on to a plate to cool. When cold make into cutlets, brush over with egg, and coat with bread crumbs. Fry a golden brown colour in boiling fat. Garnish with parsley. Mrs J. F. Lambie, 3 Edgemont Gardens, Langside, Glasgow. EGGS IN CASES. 4 eggs- I tablespoon fill grated cheese. Pepper and salt. i tablespoonful grated bread. I teaspoonful butter. Take 4 small Ramakin cases or China cases and butter well inside. Sprinkle a little pepper and salt into the bottom of each case. Drop an egg from the shell carefully into each and sprinkle over each one a little of the bread and cheese. Put a small piece of butter on the top and put the cases into the oven for about 3 minutes until the eggs set. Serve in the cases. Miss Laughton, Edinburgh. ENGLISH FRY. lb. each of liver, kidney, i large onion and a little sage, skirting, and sweetbread. i breakfast cup of water. Cut the liver, kidney, skirting, and sweetbread into small pieces and put them into a stewpot.. Then the onion which has been previously soaked in soda and water and cut into pieces; put this into the pot with the sage. Add pepper and salt to taste, and put into a hot oven, letting it stew slowly for 2 hours. This dish is very savoury and economical, the cost being about is. for a family of 6. Mrs W. Crawford, Melrose. ENTREE OR BREAKFAST DISH. 2 tomatoes. ^ lb. smoked ham. 2 eggs. .Small piece of onion or chec.se. Skin tomatoes. Chop ham very fine with tomatoes. Switch eggs and mix with chojiped onion or cheese. Put in pan with a little butter and simmer for 3 minutes. Spread on small rounds of buttered toast. ' Miss I'ou, Ayr. It114 FRICASSEED EGGS. I large onion. I carrot. I clove. I pint of milk. Small bunch of parsley. 4 or 5 eggs, li ozs. of flour. 2 ozs. of butter. Salt and pepper. A few thin slices of bacon Prepare vegetable.s, stick close into the onion. Put all these into a clean bright saucepan with the milk, and let simmer gently for an hour. Plard boil the eggs in this way :—Put them in a pan of cold water, bring to the boil and let them boil gently for 20 minutes ; shell them and lay them in cold water till wanted. Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour smoothly, then strain in the milk and stir all over the fire till it boils well and thickens. Season it nicely with salt, white pepper, and a few drops of lemon juice. Cut the eggs in halves and add them to the sauce. Let them get thoroughly hot in the sauce. While they are doing so cut the bacon into neat dice (streaky bacon is the best for this dish); also some stale white bread. Fry these a nice pale brown. Arrange the eggs carefully on a hot dish, pour the sauce over them, put little heaps of fried bacon and bread alternately round the edge, and serve at once. Mrs Murr.w. JELLIED GRAVY FOR RAISED PIES. {By kind permission of /. <0 G. Cox, Lid ). 2 ozs. of Cox’s gelatine I quart water. Flavouring, herbs, etc. I teaspoon fill .salt. 12 peppercorns. Boil the peppercorns in some of the water with the flavouring, herbs, etc., for about 20 minutes; soak the gelatine in the rest of the water, then add it to the contents of the saucepan. Stir until dissolved and add the salt, then strain for use. This may be regarded as the average strength, and is a good foundation, as it may he varied in the matter of adjuncts. For example :— *P\)r veal pies add a sprig of parsley and thyme, strip of lemon rind, and a drop of Cox’s essence of mace. For pork use sage instead of the herbs named. For game a little stock may replace the water; the same applies to beef pies.115 for which browning essence or browning salt may be used. Flavouring vinegars are occasionally used both for veal and chicken pies, but whatever the additions, omit the water in like proportions. To heighten the flavour a few drops of Tabasco pepper sauce may be used or a few chillies boiled in the stock. Do not add ground pepper, it sinks in cooling. To ornament the tops of pies aspic jelly is required.—{See Recipe) For pies in dishes good gravy of this sort may be added after baking; it ensures firmne.ss and is useful for al fresco fare when the dishes have to travel. KIDNEY OMELETTE. I teaspoonful of finely chopped onion. I teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley. I sheep’s kidney. Butter (i oz. and a little). 3 eggs. Salt and pepper. Wipe the kidney, and, after removing the skin, cut into dice, add to it the parsley and onion, and put into a stewpan in which you have melted a little butter. Stir it over the fire until just cooked, letting it be rather underdone. Beat up the yolks and the whites separately, add them together, season with pepper and salt, and pour into the omelette pan in which you have melted an ounce of butter. Stir them in the centre with a wooden spoon, and, when half cooked, put in the kidneys, etc., taking care that it is just in the centre. Fold the omelette once and shake the pan so that it will not .stick, and .serve as quickly as po.ssible. Muss Minnie Lambert, Macduff House, Auchtermuchty. KIDNEY TOAST. 4 veal kidney.s. | \ lb. calf's liver. Cut the kidneys into pieces, also the liver. Make a little butter hot in a frying-pan and to.ss the meat in this until cooked, but not overdone. Remove from the fire, add the beaten yolk cT an egg and seasoning of salt, pepper, and lemon juice. Have ready .some .squares of fried bread, spread with the mixture, and serve with mashed potatoes. A. A.116 MACARONI AND CHEESE PIE (German). Butter. Cheese. Macaroni. Sour cream. Put the macaroni into boiling salted water for about | of an hour till soft, then strain it. Put several small pieces of butter in the foot of a pudding-dish and half fill it with macaroni, then cover thickly with grated cheese, and pour over all some thick sour cream. Then fill the dish with the rest of the macaroni, cover again with cheese, and pour over more cream. Bake in oven from i to i|- hours till well browned. Miss PI ELEN Rankine, Edinburgh. MACARONI CROQUETTES. I oz. flour. I oz. butter. I gill milk. 3 ozs. macaroni. 3 ozs. grated cheese. I yolk of egg. Little salt, pepper, and mustard. Melt butter in pan, stir in flour and milk, pepper, salt, and mustard. You must stir until it gets quite sticky and forms a lump in middle of pan. Put in cheese, macaroni (which must be cooked), and yolk of egg, and mix well. Lay out on a plate to cool. When cool cut into four, then into quarters, shape into cutlets, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in deep fat. When ready stick a little piece of uncooked macaroni into the end of each and a tiny sprig of parsley. Serve hot, standing endways on dish. Miss Macrae. RAMAKIN TOAST (Indian). 2 OZS. grated cheese. ^ oz. of butter. Salt and pepper. A little made mustard. Put all into a saucepan and stir over a slow fire till the cheese is melted, then sjjread on 2 pieces of toast, and finish by putting them into a Dutch oven to brown. It ought to be a rich golden colour and served hot. Mrs Stewart Wrkjht.117 SAVOURY BALLS. i 11). flour. I leaspoonful baking powder 4 ozs. suet, finely chopped. Pepper and salt. ^ small onion. 3 sprigs of parsley, finely chopped. Mix all these together, make a stiff dough with cold water, divide into 12 balls, roll each lightly in flour, and drop them into the stew. They will take f of an hour to cook, and form an excellent addition to any stew. Mrs J. F. Lambie, Langside, Glasgow. SAVOURY OMELETTE. I teaspoonful flour mixed with a little milk, add 2 eggs. Switch up well and add a little minced onion and parsley, ham if desired, and teacup of milk. Butter a dish or pan and bake for 5 minutes in quick oven, or fry. . Osborne. TOMATO SAVOURY. Tomatoes. Some brown breadcrumbs. .A large onion. A little chopped parsley. Cut tomatoes in two (through the centre not down), chop onion very very small. Grease a tin or dish and set tomatoes on it, cut side up. Now lay on each some onion, then bread- crumbs, .sprinkle a little parsley, and lastly lay a piece of butter on top. Bake 20 to 30 minutes and serve with cold meat. Miss Hart, Cartbank, Pollokshaws. WELSH RAREBIT. I cupful of cheese. I egg- I teasprjonful of mu-stard. I teaspoonful of butter. I cup of scalded milk or cream. Pepper and salt. .Melt butter, cheese, and mustard together and mix well, then add hot milk. Stir all the time until it begins to thicken, then add egg well beaten. .Mrs Young, Barre, Vermont, U.S. America.118 CAKES AND BAKING. A RICH CURRANT CAKE. I lb. of flour, 2:|cl. i lb. of butter, 8d. I pint of milk, id. 1 lb. of sugar, 2d 2 eggs, 2d. ^ lb of currants, 3d. 4 lb. of peel, 3d. Take a basin and put i pound of flour into it; rub | a pound of butter into the flour; well wash, pick, and dry the currants; mix | a pound of pounded sugar with them, and a of a pound of mixed candied lemon and orange peel, also a teaspoonful of grated nutmeg; beat 2 eggs well in | a pint of milk; mix all the ingredients thoroughly together; bake in a buttered tin in a moderate oven for i hour. Mrs Crawford, Melro.se. A GOOD CHEAP CAKE. lbs. of flour, i It), of butter. I lb. of currants. J lb. sugar. I egg. I teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, i pint of milk. Mix all the diy ingredients thoroughly, then add the warm milk with the soda dissolved in it. Bake in a moderate oven about I hour. Mrs W. Graham-Yooll, 45 Stirling Road, Trinity, Leith. BAKING POWDER. 2 ozs. carbonate of soda. | 2 ozs. tartaric acid. 2 ozs. rice flour. Put all the ingredients into a basin and mix well, then rub the mixture through a sieve several times to take out the lumps, and put into a bottle for use. Miss K. C. Blyth, Abbotsford, Crookston, Glasgow.no BEAULY CAKES. S ozs. flour. 4 ozs. buttei. 3 ozs. sifted sugar. i egg. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add flour and egg and work smoothly together. Roll out fairly thin, cut into rounds, and line patty pans. Put into the oven and bake for 20 minutes slowly. AVhen quite cold fill with jam or stewed prunes (stoned). Decorate wdth whipped cream. Miss Jane Tod Rankin, Glasgow. BIBLE CAKE. cups of ist Kings .... Chapter. 4th Verse. 22 nd I cup of Judges ..... 5th 25th 2 cups of Jeremiah ..... 6th 20th 2 cups of Nahum ..... 3rd 12th 2 cups of I St Samuel .... 30th 12 th 2 cups of Numbers ..... 17th 8th 2 tablespoonfuls of ist Samuel 14th 25 th I pinch of Leviticus .... 2nd 13th 6 articles from Jeremiah .... 17th nth i a cup of Judges ..... 4th 19th *2 tea.spoonfuls of Amos .... 4th Sth Season to taste with the 2nd book of Chronicles ..... 9 th 9th The authorised version must be used or your cake will not hold together. * Something to raise the cake. BREAD. 7 lbs. of flour. I large tablespoonful of salt. 3 pints of water. 2 ozs. of yeast. I piece of lard the .size of an egg. Warm a deep pan and then put the flour in and let it stand in front of the fire until the chill is off it, then heap it up round the sides of the pan, leaving a hollow in the centre. Mi.x the yeast up into a paste with i pint of hike-warm water, but if the water is mf)re than luke-warm the yeast will be wasted. After stirring into the yeast 2 teaspoonfuls of while120 sugar, pour the yeast into the hollow in the fl(nir. Throw a clean kitchen towel over the pan, and, after putting it on a stool, set in front of the fire (not too near), taking the greatest care to screen it from all draughts. Leave it here until the yeast has risen to the top of the pan, then dissolve the lard in a pint of warm water. Mix up the whole batter with this, using more or less water as required. After it has been thoroughly kneaded or pummelled, set it again in front of the lire to rise for i hour. By this time it should have risen to the top or almost over the pan. Then, after kneading the sponge again, cut it into pieces the size of your bread-tins, and let it rise in them before putting into the hot oven. Unless the oven has a good bottom heat the bread wall be spoiled, as a top heat is of no good w'hatever. The bread should be baked for about i hour. If tapped on the bottom of the loaf and sounds hollow, it is ready for coming out. Mrs W. Crawford, Melrose. BREAD GIRDLE CAKES (American). J II). bread. I pint Hour. I teaspoonful brown sugar I egg. f pint milk. teaspoonful salt teaspoonfuls baking powder. Put bread, free from crust, to soak in warm water. When thoroughly soaked wring dry in a towel; dilute w'ith beaten egg and milk. Sift together sugar, flour, salt, and powder; add prepared bread ; mix together into smooth batter. Bake on well-heated girdle. Serve w'ith sugar and cream. Miss Mary Ann Stewcart, Woodbridge, N.J., U.S., America. BREAKFAST ROLLS. breakfastcupfuls of flour. J teaspoonful of baking soda. I teaspoonful cream of tartar. 2 teaspoonfuls of butter. A little salt. Sweet milk. Mix well and lay on oven shelf in spoonfuls quick oven. and bake in X.Y.7.121 BRISTOL CAKE. ^ lb. of butter, i lb. of treacle, j lb. of lemon peel. I lb. of orange peel. I teacupful of sweet milk. 2 lbs. of currants, i lb. of dark brown sugar. 11 lbs. of self-raising flour. 6 eggs (7 if small). Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then drop in eggs one by one, after which add milk slightly warmed, then treacle, and fruit, and lastly the flour. Bake in moderate oven for 4 hours. Very good with almond icing on top. Miss Hart, Cartbank, Pollokshaws. BUNS. I lb. flour. :i lb. sugar. 1 lb. butter. 2 eggs. A few drops lemon essence. A few currants. I teaspoonful baking soda. I teaspoonful cream of tartar. Put flour into basin and rub butter well into it. Beat the eggs and add also a little milk to moisten if required. Put in lemon essence and currants now, and lastly the soda and cream of tartar. Cook in a moderate oven for ^ an hour. Miss Minnie Adie Rose, The Manse, Sandsting, Shetland, N.B. BURNLEY GINGERBREAD. 1,-^ Ib.s. flour. ^ lb. dripping or butter. 2 eggs. 6 OZ.S. brown sugar, i lb. .syrup. ij dessertspoonfuls ground ginger. ^ dessertspoonful mixed spicc. 2 sm.ill teaspoonfuls carbonate of soda. A few sultana raisins or .some chopped preserved ginger. Mix dry ingredients first, then .syrup and beaten eggs, and la,st butter-milk to make it thin enough to drop from spoon into buttered tins. This makes 2 cakes. Moderate oven. Mrs M'Intosh.122 BUTTER-MILK CAKE. 6 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. dripping. I oz. raisins. ih ozs. currants. 2 ozs. .soft sugar. Butter-milk. Small teaspoonful soda. Same of cream of tartar. Ivub dripping or butter into the flour, add currants, raisins, sugar, soda, cream of tartar, and spice. Mix with milk to a stiff batter. Bake in hot oven in well-greased tins. Lemon Icing. J lb. icing sugar. | Juice of i lemon. White of egg. Mix for about lo minutes and spread on cake with a knife dipped in hot water. Set in hot place to firm. Mi.SS StENHOUSE. CARROT CAKE (German). 7 eggs. 3 lb. castor sugar. lb. raw grated carrot. ^Ib unshelled grated almonds. I cupful cherry water. I teaspoonful cinnamon. I oz. chopped citron. 3 tablespconfuls rice flour. Beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar for | an hour, then add the carrots and beat for of an hour longer. Then mix in the other ingredients, adding at the last the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs Pour the mixture into a buttered cake-tin and bake very slowly for i hour. If it gets too brown put a greased paper over it. When cold pour over a white icing. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. CHOCOLATE CAKES. 2 ozs. powdered chocolate. 2 eggs. 2 OZ. butler. 2 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. sugar. i teaspoonful baking powder. Rub flour, butter, sugar, and chocolate together. Beat the eggs and mix well together'. Bake to minutes in a hot oven, and when cold put on icing.123 Icing-. 2 ozs. powdered chocolate. | i tablespoonful icing sugar. Moisten with a little cold water and put over cakes. A. G. Brown, Nurses’ Home, 9 Newington Green, Mildmay Park, London, N. CHEAP SPONGE CAKE. I teacupful flour. J teaspoonful baking powder. 1 teacupful sifted sugar. 3 eggs. Essence of lemon. Switch eggs and sugar in basin standing in boiling water for 10 minutes without stopping, then for ro minutes without hot water. Sift in the flour and baking powder and add the lemon essence. Mrs Mark, Cumbernauld. CHRISTMAS CAKE. I lb. flour. I lb. sultana raisins. I lb. currants, i lb. castor sugar. J lb. orange peel. J lb. split almonds. 6 ozs. butter. 3 eggs. I teaspoonful baking powder, ij teacupfuls milk. Beat butter and sugar into a cream, then add the eggs, dropping each separately and beating till it disappears. Add flour and milk alternately till the whole is added, then fruit, etc., lastly baking powder. Delicious but difficult to fire. Mrs Marr, Cumbernauld. CLYDE CAKE. i lb. of butter. i lb. of castor sugar. 4 eggs. 9 ozs. of flour. 4 ozs. of almonds. i tea.spoonful of baking powder. 10 ozs. of currants (washed, dried, and picked). 4 ozs. of sultanas raisins (do.) 6 ozs. candied peel (chopped fine). Beat butter and sugar to a cream ; add eggs one by one, beating between each ; add flour gradually with powder in last spoonful; then the currants, raisins, peel, and beat well again. Line a greased tin with buttered jiaper and pour124 cake in. Blanch and slice the almonds and lay them on the top of cake. Bake in a rather slow oven for 2 hours till quite firm in the middle. This is a very good cake if made with care. Mrs Lambie, Cleathorps, England. COCOA-NUT BISCUITS. 2 ozs. grated cocoa-nut. [ 4 ozs. sifted sugar. 2 whites of eggs. Beat the whites of eggs very stiff; add sugar gradually and then cocoa-nut; mi.\ gently. Place a piece of white paper on an oven shelf; put the mi.xture on in teaspoonfuls and bake in a rather slow oven for about ^ an hour. O.J.W. COCOA-NUT CAKE. I teacupful of moist sugar. I tablespoon ful of butter. Yolks of 2 eggs. White of I egg. I teacupful of milk. Flour. 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Put into a basin i teacupful of moist sugar and i table- spoonful of butter ; with a spoon beat them briskly together ; put in the white of i egg and the yolks of 2 eggs; mi.x all with I small cupful of milk and 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder ; dredge in the flour till a thick batter is made. Bake in 3 layers in a tin 7 inches in diameter by | inch in depth. Turn out each layer as it is baked and cover with cocoa-nut preparation made thus :— Froth the white of one egg; mix with it 2 tablespoonfuls sugar and sufficient quantity of dessicated cocoa-nut to taste. Put the layers on top of each other as they are covered. Miss Goodwin. COFFEE CAKES. 4 ozs. butter. 4 ozs. sugar. 6 ozs. flour. 2 eggs. 2 teaspoonfuls coffee. I teaspoonful baking powder. I tablespoonful grated walnut. Little milk if needed. Cream the butter and sugar, add half the flour, egg, and walnuts, and mix well; then add other ingredients, mix well. Put into small buttered tins and bake 15 minutes. J. R. M., Edinburgh.125 CREAM SCONES. li breakfa-stcupfuls of flour. 2 or more teaspoonfuls of I de.ssertspoonful of sugar. baking powder. Piece of butter the size of an egg (if milk is used). Make into dough with cream or milk. Bake on a very hot girdle for 5 minutes, then turn; or they may be done in the oven. Miss Hart, Cartbank, Pollokshaws. CRULLERS (No. i). I cupful of butter, i cupful of sugar, | cupful sweet milk, 4 eggs, flour enough to roll thin. Cut in desired shapes or strips, and braid. Cook in very hot lard. Mrs A. J. Young, Barre, Vt., U.S.A. CRULLERS (No. 2). 8 tablespoonfuls of white sugar, 4 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, 2 tablespoonfuls of milk, 4 eggs, i teaspoonful of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar, i nutmeg, flour to make it stiff enough to roll; cut in desired shapes and fry in hot lard. Mrs Wm. Jack, Barre, Vt., U.S A. CREAM CRULLERS. cupfuls of sugar, 2 cupfuls of cream, 2 eggs, 2 tea- spoonfuls of baking powder, mix in flour enough to roll out soft; cut in desired shapes and fry in very hot lard. Mrs Wm. Jack, Barre, Vt., U.S.A. CURRANT SCONES. i lb. ,'>elf-rai.sing flour. A dessertspoonful castor sugar. A dessertspoonful syrup. 2 handfuls of currants, i oz. butter. I gill of buttermilk Rub in the butter among the flour, add sugar and currants. Dis.solve the syrup in the buttermilk, and with it make a smooth light dough. Divide into two pieces and make each piece round. Roll out rather thin, cut into four, and bake on a moderately hot girdle. M. K. Williams.126 DOUGHNUTS (No. i). 2 eggs well beaten, i large cup granulated sugar, | nut- meg, pinch of salt, 6 tablespoonfuls melted lard, i quart of buttermilk, i heaping teaspoonful soda. Add flour to make a stiff dough. Roll ^ an inch thick. Cut with a doughnut cutter (a biscuit cutter will do), cut hole in centre about size of a shilling. Fry in hot deep lard. While hot roll in powdered sugar. Put in jars and cover while warm. Mrs Wm. J.a.ck, Barrc, Vt., U.S.A. DOUGHNUTS (No. 2). I cupful sugar, 2 eggs, a little salt, r cupful sour milk, I tahlespoonful sour cream or melted lard, i teaspoonful soda. Flour enough to roll Cut round with hole in centre. Cook in lard. Mrs A. J. Young, Barre, Vt., U.S.A. DROPPED SCONES. 7 tablespoonful.s of flour. 3 taf)lespoonfuls of sugar. I teaspoon ful baking soda. A little butter milk. ^ teaspoonful cream of tartar. I egg. A pinch of salt. Beat the egg well, add all the other ingredients, and mix with the milk to a very smooth batter. Drop the mixture in spoonfuls on to a well-greased, hot girdle. Let them brown nicely, then turn over, and when done spread on a clean cloth to cool. Mrs Cunningham, Trinity. DUCHESS LOAVES. ^ pint of milk 4 ozs. butter. 2 0/.S. sugar. 5 ozs. flour. 3 egg.s A few drops of essence of orange. A liitle .salt. Put the milk, butter, sugar, and salt into a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it begins to boil take it off, add the flour, and stir the whole with a wooden spoon over the fire for 3 minutes; now add the essence of orange and i egg, work these into the ]^aste, then mix in the other 2 eggs, and if then too stiff, another egg may be added or the yolk only.Kp Special Appointment Co Ris IRajesty tRc Kina JOHN DONALD & CO, BRISTO PORT, EDINBURGH (Midway between the Museum and Royal Inllrmary) e o e China Glass Earthen ware That this Firm have always taken the lead in their own special line of business is an universally accepted axiom. The immense variety of their stock, combined with RELIABLE QUALITY and EXTREMELY MODERATE PRICES have secured for them the confidence of a far and wide and ever increasing connection throughout the country. Being in con- stant touch with all the manufacturing centres of the Glass and Pottery Trades, they are enabled, through their immense out- put, to have large consignments of the latest and choicest productions pouring in daily. Every requisite in China, Glass and Earthenware can be procured at this establishment. .Special attention given to orders for matchings. Patterns sent to any address, carriage paid. ESTABLISHED 65 YEARS. Telegraphic Address ~ ‘CHINA, EDINBURGH.’ Telephone No. 931128 This paste should now be laid on a baking sheet in small round balls the si?e of a pigeon’s egg, then rolled out, with a little flour, in the form of a finger, and put on to another baking sheet spread with butter. Brush them over with a little egg and bake in a hot oven until of a light brown colour; just before they are done sift over them some fine white sugar, set back into the oven until it is nearly melted; then pass a red-hot salamander (or kitchen shovel will do) over them, to give them a bright glossy appearance, and allow them to cool. Just before sending them to the table, make an incision down the sides and fill the loaves with apricot jam. Dish them up in a pyramidal form on a serviette, and .serve. C. (h 1). Crumble the yeast in a basin, add the sugar, and just sufficient warm water to cover it, let it stand in a warm place until it has “risen.” Mix a teaspoonful of salt with the flour, then pour the yeast into the centre of it, stir it with a spoon until it is a thick batter, then let if stand in a warm place for 15 minutes, when it should look like a sponge. Now add just sufficient warm milk and butter to make a light dough, and knead it well for about lo minutes, then cover it with a clean cloth and let it stand in a warm place for i hour. Then make it upon a floured board into fancy shapes (use as little flour as possible on the hands when forming the shapes), horse shoes, twists, crescents, etc. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a hot oven from 15 to 20 minutes according to the size. M. A. B. H. A. FRENCH BREAD. I lb. of flour. I oz. ofbuUer. i oz. German yeast. A small teaspoonful castor sugar. Nearly ^ a pint of milk. A little warm water. FRUIT CAKE. I 11). flour, i lb. sugar. 6 oz. butter. ^ lb. almonds. I teaspoonful of baking powder. I lb. sultana raisins. I 11). currants. 11). orange peel. i teaspoon fill e.ssence of lemon. 4 1 teacupful of milk.129 Beat butter and sugar to a cream, whisk eggs for 5 mins, and add alternately with flour and milk, give the whole a very good beating, and mix in prepared fruit, essence, and baking powder. Pour into a greased and lined cake tin and bake in a hot oven for about-2 hours. Miss Jane T. Rankin, Glasgow. GINGER BREAD. J lb. syrup. I lb. treacle. I lb. lard. lb. cooking sugar. ^ teacupful of water. I lb. of flour. I tablespoonful of ginger. I dessertspoonful cinnamon. I teaspoonful cloves. I teaspoonful baking soda, 2 eggs. Put the syrup, treacle, lard, sugar, and water into a pan and heat them. Put flour, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, and soda into a strong basin. Pour the heated ingredients into the centre of the flour and stir hard. Drop in the eggs and stir till bubbles appear. Put into a flat well-greased tin. Smooth over the top and brush a beat egg over it. Put into a moderate oven, and bake till firm to the touch. M. A. Brown, 5 Willowbrae Av., Edin. GINGER CAKE (No. i). J lb. flour, j lb. treacle. 3 ozs. sugar. 3 ozs. butter. 3 ozs. chopped orange peel. I teaspoonful carb. of soda. J oz. cinnamon. 1 oz. ground ginger. 2 eggs. A little buttermilk. Sift flour, carbonate of soda, cinnamon and ginger, into a basin. Melt butter, treacle, and sugar in a pan. ‘ Beat up eggs, and add milk to them. Add melted butter, etc., to eggs. Pour into the flour and mix all well. Lastly, add orange peel. Put into moderate oven for 30 mins. GINGER CAKE (No. 2). I teacupful of butter, teacupfuls of .sugar. 3 teacupfuls of flour, i teacupful milk. 4 eggs. I heaped teaspoonful baking powder. I teaspoon ful of essence of vanilla. I leacupful preserved ginger. 1130 5eat butter and sugar to a cream, whisk the eggs for 5 minutes, then a.dd the milk and mix well. Add the flour mixed with the baking powder, then add the ginger, and last of all the essence. Beat thoroughly and bake in a moderate oven for l i- hours. Mi-ss J. T. Rankin, Glasgow. GINGER SNAPS. I cupful brown sugar. I cupful molasses'. h teacupful butter and lard (mixed). I leaspoonful salt. Flour enough 2 teaspoonfuls ground ginger. 3 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls baking soda dissolved in ^ teacupful of boiling water, to mix stiff. Boil molasses, sugar, butter, and lard, about 15 minutes. When cooled a little add other ingredients. Put in rounds on greased oven shelf and bake in moderate oven. Mrs Young, Barre, Vermont, U.S.A. GINGER SPONGE CAKE. 2 cupfuls brown sugar. 4 eggs. I pint flour. I teaspoonful extract lemon f cupful of water. IJ teaspoonfuls baking powder I tablespoonful extract ginger. Beat eggs and sugar together for 10 minutes; add the water, the flour sifted with the powder, and the extracts; mix into a smooth sponge, arid bake in oven 30 minutes. Miss M. Stewart, Woodbridge, NJ., U.S.A. HONEY CAKES. 2 ozs.' butter. ^ lb. honey. 2 ozs. blanched alrnonds. ^ oz. carbonate of soda. Nutmeg. Grated rind of i lemop. ^ lb. flour. Melt the butter in a stewpan, and then stir in the honey and let it boil. Boil 5 mins., stirring incessantly. Take from fire and allow to cool slightly, then mix in the almonds pounded (not too fine), a little grated nutmeg, lemon rind, flour, and soda (dissolved in a little warm water). Leave this mixture untouched for a night, then roll out | an inch thick, cut into small square cakes, ornament the top of each with a piece peel, and bake J an hour in a moderate oven. Mrs Mark,131 HOW TO COOK DOUGHNUTS, CRULLERS, &c., IN LARD. Success in making good fried cakes depends much on the cooking as well as on the mixing. In the first place there should be boiling lard enough to free them from the bottom of the pot, so that they swim on the top, and the lard should never be so hot as to smoke, or so cool as not to be to the boiling point; if it is, they will soak grease, and are spoiled. If it is at the right heat, the doughnut will in about lo mins, be of a delicate brown outside and nicely cooked inside. Try the fat by dropping a bit of the dough in first; if it is right, the fat will boil up when it is dropped in. . They should be turned over almost constantly, which causes them to rise and brown evenly. When they are sufficiently cooked, raise them from the hot fat, and drain them until they cease dripping. Cakes fried iii this way, if shortened with butter, are less likely to absorb fat than those shortened with lard. After fat has been used for frying doughnuts it should be set away to cool, when the sediment will sink and the lard may be removed in a clean cake. If very much scorched, clarify by boiling a few slices of raw potatoes in the lard. Never attempt to fry but a few doughnuts at a time, so that they can be easily turned. A mixture, two-thirds lard and one- third suet, is a wholesome fat for frying doughnuts, and less likely to soak the cake. HUCKLEBERRY GRIDDLE CAKES. 1 pint of milk. 2 teaspoonfnls baking powder. 2 eggs. ^ pint of huckleberries I tablespoonful brown sugar. I teaspoonful salt, li pints flour. Sift flour, salt, sugar, and powder; add well-beaten eggs, milk, and huckleberries. Mix into batter. Have griddle hot enough to form crust as soon as batter touches it. In order to prevent juice escaping from berries, turn quickly and form crust on other side of cake. Turn once more on each side to complete baking. Mi.ss Jessie Stewart, Woodbridge, N.J., U.S A.132 BLACKBERRY GRIDDLE CAKES. Proceed as directed for “ Huckleberry Griddle Cakes,” using blackberries instead of huckleberries. Miss J. Stewart, VVoodbridge, N J., U.S.A. INDIAN GRIDDLE CAKES. f quart corn-meal. ^ quart flour. I teaspoonful brown sugar. ^ teaspoonful salt. 2 eggs. 1 pint milk. 2 large teaspoonfuls baking powder. Sift corn-meal, flour, salt, sugar, and powder; add well- beaten eggs and milk. Bake on very hot griddle to a nice brown. Serve with molasses or maple syrup. Miss Marjory Stewart, Woodbridge, New Jersey, U.S.A. IRRESISTIBLE CAKE. I egg. Its weight in butter, sugar, flour, and rice-flour. I tablespoonful milk. I teaspoonful baking powder. Beat butter and sugar together, then add flour, rice-flour, and the egg well beaten, then the tablespoonful of milk, then the baking powder in a little milk. Beat all well together and put on 2 well-buttered dinner plates. Put in a good hot oven and bake for about 20 minutes. Lemon Cheese to be put between above cakes. Mrs Grieve, Coillesdene, Portobello. LEMON FINGERS. 6 ozs. flour. 3 ozs. butter. I lb. castor sugar. ^ teaspoonful soda. 4 teaspoonful cream of tartar. I egg. I lemon. A little milk. Mix flour, butter, and sugar until like breadcrumbs, then add soda and tartar, grated rind of lemon, and i teaspoonful of juice ; beat egg, add the milk, and mix. Pour into buttered tin and bake in hot oven for | hour. Ice with water icing, half pink and other half white, after cutting cake in fingers. Mrs Petrie, 13 Dunolly Garden.s, Ibro.x, Glasgow.J33 MACAROONS (German). 6 whiles of eggs. | i Ihi graled almonds or i lb. castor sugar. I hazel nuts. (If almonds are used add a little essence). Beat the eggs and sugar together for ^ an hour, then mix in slowly the nuts (and essence). Put spoonfuls of the mixture on a slightly-greased baking sheet and bake in rather cool oven till they are slightly browned. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. MADEIRA CAKE. 3 ozs. butter. | 4 ozs. flour. 4 ozs. castor sugar. I 2 eggs. Work the butter to a cream, add the sugar, and beat for 10 minutes; then mix in the flour and eggs by degrees, beating well all the time—say, for another 10 minutes. Bake for about f of an hour in a tin lined with greased paper. —For chocolate cake add to the above i oz. of powdered chocolate. U.S A. MERINGUES. Take the whites of 4 eggs, whisk till quite stiff, then with a spoon mix 6 tablespoonfuls of castor sugar; oil paper, and put on wood (well-seasoned), and lay on spoonfuls of mixture a little apart, and bake in cool oven, with the door a little open, for at least h an hour to harden; scoop out the inside of cases and put back in oven to harden. Pflll each half with whipped cream flavoured with essence of vanilla; join 2 together. Makes about 12 meringues. ' Mrs M. Andrews, Cardonald Mills, Crookston. 3 tggs- MOCHA CAKES. I 6 ozs. castor sugar. 5 OZ.S. flour. Beat the eggs and sugar together for ^ hour and then mix in lightly the flour. Bake in a small cake-tin (not a134 shallow one). When ready allow the cake to cool and then cut it into 4 layers. Spread each layer with the coffee icing and put on the top of each other again. Spread to top with the icing and decorate to taste or sprinkle with chopped walnuts. Icing. I oz. butter. ] Coffee essence. 3 ozs. icing sugar. | Vanilla. To make the Icing.—Beat the butter and add the sugar. Add as much coffee essence as you wish and flavour with a little vanilla. Minnie Mather, i6 Leamington Terrace. MOTHER’S TEA CAKES. {An old Recipe). 3^ lbs. of flour, i lb. of butter and lard mi.xed. i pint of boiling water. I pint of cold milk. J penny of yeast. I lb. of currants. 1 lb. of sugar. 2 ozs. of candied peel. A little nutmeg. I egg. Pour boiling water over the butter and lard, then cool down with cold milk; beat egg and yeast together and stir in first mixture; add fruit and nutmeg to the flour and stir in yeast, butter, lard, etc., and stand in a warm (not hot) place for 3 hours to rise; then make into cakes and bake in a moderate oven. These cakes keep fresh a week by simply warming them in the oven or toasting them. X.Y.Z. NAPOLEON CAKES. i lb. flour. 2 ozs. sugar. 6 ozs. butter. 2 ozs. ground almonds. The yolk of i egg. Rub the butter into the flour, add sugar and almonds, mix with enough yolk of egg to make a very stiff paste, set aside for i hour. Roll into 2 thin sheets and bake a pale brown in a moderate oven. Spread i with jam or jelly and lay other on to]i and cut into fingers while hot. Sprinkle icing sugar on top. Miss Mackintosh, Glasgow.135 NUTRINA PANCAKES* 1 lb. flour. I egg. 2 ozs. nutrina. i oz. sugar. Milk to mix. Beat up the egg and sugar together 5 sift the floilr and nutrina into basin with the egg and sugar and beat Very lightly; make the mixture quite thin with milk and strain through sieve into jug. Heat the pancake-pan and ntb well with suet; pour enough of the mixture into the pan to cover the bottom, and brown first one side and then the other. Place on clean towel to cool. OAT CAKES. The secret of success in baking oat cakes is to use as little liquid as possible in moistening the meal to form the dough, and the smarter that the dough is kneaded and the less it is handled the cakes are all the more crisp. Plain Oat Cake. — Breakfastcupful of fine oatmeal; a pinch of soda; water sufficient to moisten into dough. Butter-Milk Oat Cake.—Same as abovej only use butter-milk instead of water. Cream Oak Cake.—Same as above, only use cream instead of water. A very fine cream cake is formed by varnishing the top of the cake with a thick cream before baking. Rich Oat Cake.—A rich oat cake is make by the addition of a little butter or lard when the dough is made with water or milk. The preparation is the same for all the varieties:—Mix the soda well into the meal, add the liquid, sufficient to form a stiff dough. Have the bake-board well covered with dry meal and knead out the dough upon it, roll oilt thin, Using plenty of dry meal. Bake on a hot girdle till slightly browned on the underside, turn and bake on the othet side, or toast before a glowing red fire. It improves most cakes to be toa.sted before the open fire where the moisture evaporates. Miss H. Jack, 2 Lismore Crescent, Edinburgh.130 OATMEAL CAKES (Sweet). 3 07S. butter. 7 ozs. fine oatmeal. 5 ozs. flour. 3 ozs. castor sugar. I egg. Cold water. Melt the butter and mix with it the meal, flour, sugar, which have been well blended; break the egg into a little cold water and gently stir into the other ingredients so as to make a stiff paste. Turn on to a board, roll out very thin, a,nd cut into squares; scatter dry oatmeal over the top and bake in a greased tin in a slow oven 20 to 30 minutes. M.S. ORANGE CAKE. 11 ozs. flour. 6 ozs. sugar. 4I ozs. butter. 3 eggs. Grated rind and juice of 2 oranges. Milk if required. Rub together butter, flour, and sugar, then add rind; whisk eggs and add, lastly orange juice, and mix well. Put into 4 well-greased tins and bake in moderate oven for | an hour. This quantity makes 2 cakes. Put one piece on the top of the other and put the following filling between :— Filling for Cake. 3 ozs. ground almonds. 3 ozs. castor sugar. 2 ozs. butter. Thinly grated rind of 2 oranges. Tablespoonful thick cream. Sufficient orange juice to mix. Warm butter, beat up with sugar, add almonds, rind, cream, and juice (put cream in always before acid, it does not curdle then!. Mix well before putting in cream, add juice strained, mix in gently not to curdle. Icing for Cake. 10 ozs. icing sugar. | Juice of i orange. Sufficient boiling water to mix it up. Rub sugar through wire sieve, add juice and water. Colour icing pale pink with i or 2 drops of ‘ carmine ’ and spread evenly, putting aside to get cool. (Put in orange juice first, then you know how much water will be required). Mrs Grieve, Coillesdene, Portobello.Ifou may not lil^e porridge but find Oatmeal a necessary aid to thorough digestion Cry f}\e Celebrated Scofctj ECLIPSE OATCAKES Car] be taken at any J)iieaL Supei-ioi- TO A.LL OTITEKS EcliusB Baking Go., Glasgow138 ORANGE ROCK CAKES. I lb. flour. 3 ozs. sugar. leaspoonful baking powder. egg- 3 ozs. butter. The grated rind and juice of I orange. Put into a basin the flour, sugar, baking powder, and when well mixed rub in the butter, add the rind and juice of orange and the egg that has been well beaten. Mix all well together and put on to a buttered baking-sheet pieces about the size of a large walnut. Bake for about lo to 15 minutes in a sharp oven. Mrs Garvie. OVEN SCONES. 2 teacupfuls flour. I teaspoonful sugar. i teaspoonful baking soda. I teaspoonful cream of tartar. Piece of butter size of a walnut. Pinch of salt. Mix thoroughly flour, sugar, soda, tartar, and salt, rub butter into it with the tips of the fingers, add the egg (well beaten) and enough milk (sweet) to make a stiff dough. Divide in two and roll out, cutting each into 4 or 8 parts or cut into rounds with a cutter. Brush over the top with a little egg. Bake in a hot oven about 10 minutes. X.Y.Z. PARKIN. 10 ozs. flour. 6 ozs. oatmeal. 6 ozs. dripping or butler. 5 ozs. sugar. 6 ozs. treacle or syrup, A little warm milk. I egg. I teaspoonful carbonate of soda. I teaspoonful ground ginger. A little nutmeg. A little candied peel. Mix all dry ingredients together, then rub the butter in and add the egg, then the treacle and milk warmed' a little, and bake about | an hour. Miss Hart, Pollokshaws. PITKEATHLY 6 ozs. flour. 2 ozs. rice flour. 2 ozs. Castor sugar. Shred peel, blanch almonds, BANNOCKS. 4 ozs. butter. I oz. almonds. I oz. orange peel. and chop very fine. Knead139 flour, sugar, and butter into a solid mass, then add almonds and peel and get them well mixed through the bannock. Form into round shape. Bake on a baking-sheet with greased paper and double band round to keep in shape, in moderate oven f hour. Mrs Osler, Pldinburgh. POUND CAKE. 6 eggs. i teaspoon Ful soda. I teaspoonful cteam of tartar, i cupful sweet milk; Beat sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs, mix tartar with flour and add this; dissolve soda in the milk and stir all well together; bake in a hot oven. Miss Morrison, Musselburgh. POTATO SCONES. 6 cooked potatoes. I Flour. Dripping or butter. j Salt. Mash the potatoes free from lumps with a tiny piece of butter or dripping and salt. Use enough flour to make the potatoes into a paste that can be rolled on a floured board to about a ^ of an inch in thickness. Cut into rounds, prick well vath a fork, and cook to a pale brown on both sides on a hot girdle. Sen^e hot with salt butter. Mrs Sutherland, Ashleigh Villa, Willowbrae Rd. I lb. white sugar. I lb. flour. h lb. butter. POTATO SCONES (American). 6 potatoes, i pint Graham flour, i teaspwonful salt. I tablespoonful butter. I egg. I cupful cream, i teaspoonful extract cloves, i teaspoonful baking powder. Boil 6 large potatoes (peeled) until very well done, drain off water, set them by fire with cover off to dry. Mash very smooth, adding butter, egg and cream. Sift flour, salt, and powder together, and add to potato preparation. When quite cold add extract; mix into firm dough. Handle carefully as it is very short. Flour board with Graham flour.HO turn out dough and roll to thickness of an inch, cut with sharp knife to oblong pieces 4 ins. by 6 ins. Bake on hot griddle, pricking with fork to prevent blistering. To be eaten with butter. Miss J. Stewart, Woodbridge, N.J., U.S.A. RATAFIAS. i lb. sweet almonds. i lb. biller almonds. Blanch and pound the almonds in a mortar with one white of egg; stir in the sugar, and gradually add the remaining whites of eggs thoroughly whisked. Drop the mixture out in spoonfuls on to cartridge paper, and thereon bake for about twelve minutes in a rather slow oven. “ CvNiCA,” Liverpool. f lb. sifted sugar. 4 whites of eggs. RICE BISCUITS. ^ lb. flour. I oz. ground rice. ^ lb. sugar. 2 oz. butter. I egg. i teaspoonful baking powder. I tablespoonful milk. Mix butter and sugar well together, add beaten egg and milk. Mix flour and rice in separate basin and then by degrees add first mixture, then add baking powder. Roll into stiff paste, cut with fancy cutter, put on buttered paper and bake in moderate oven. Miss MacGillivray, London Road. RICE CAKE. "tJ lbs. ground rice. ^ lb. flour. I lb. butter. Preserved ginger cut in dice. I lb. sugar. A little ground ginger. 10 eggs. Mix like pound cake. Butter and paper square baking sheet, spread over with a knife, and bake in a moderate oven. Mrs Mussen, Balmoral Castle.141 ROSE 1 cupful of butter. 2 cupfuls of sugar. 3^ cupfuls flour. i cupful of cream. 4 eggs. CAKE. 4 lb. of currants. J lb. sweet almonds (pounded) 4 teaspoonful of soda. I teaspoonful cream of tartar. Rose water. Dissolve soda in hot water. Sift cream of tartar in flour, work rose water into almonds. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, x^dd the yolks and almond paste. Whip together for 5 minutes before putting in the cream, the soda water, whites beaten and flour alternately; .finally the currants, washed, dried, and picked. Stir well and bake in small tins well buttered, for 20 to 30 minutes. Ice them on tops. Mrs Lambie, Cleathorps. RUSSIAN PANCAKES. IJ ozs. butter (creamed). j i teaspoonful sugar. I oz. flour. I 1 gill sweet milk. 2 eggs. Separate yolks of eggs from whites. Beat up the yolks with the sugar. Add flour and milk. Beat up the whites of eggs lightly. Mix all together. Have 5 saucers buttered and put some of the mixture into each. Bake in moderate oven for 20 minutes. After the pancakes are removed from the saucers spread a little jam in the centre of each. K. W. RUSSIAN SANDWICH. 2 eggs. 3 oz. castor sugar, ij ozs. butter. 3 ozs. Coombs’ flour. A few drops ess. of almonds. A few drops of carmine. Beat the eggs and the sugar together until the mixture is quite thick, add the melted butter, then the flour and the flavouring. Pour half of the mixture into a well-greased .sandwich tin, colour the remaining half with the carmine and pour it into a tin the .same size as the other, then bake in a quick oven for about 10 minutes. Turn out on to a sieve to cool, cut a thin shave off the top before spreading one of them with the chocolate cream, place the coloured portion on the top. Cover with water icing, cut into fancy shapes and decorate with royal icing.142 Chocolate Cream Filling— I oz. of buUer. ozs. icing sugar. I oz. of Cad. grated chocolate. i teaspoonful vanilla. Work the sugar and chocolate into the butter in a teacup over a gentle heat, add the vanilla, then spread the mixture evenly over the cake. Icing for Coloured Cake— 6 ozs. icing sugar. | A few drops carmine. I tablespoonful of cold water. Mix the sugar, water, carmine in a basin or enamelled pan and stir it over the stove until quite warm, then pour it over the sandwich. White Royal Icing— The white or part ot the white of i egg with sufficient icing sugar to make it stiff enough to retain the ornaments. M. A. B. H. A. SCOTCH CURRANT BUN. For the Crust- i teaspoonful baking powder. Water. lbs. of flour. I lb. of butter. Make these into a firm paste, roll out into a thin sheet. Grease the inside of a cake tin and line it nicely with jiaste, reserving a piece the size of the tin for the top of the bun. Inside Mixture— I lb. of flour. 1 lb. sugar. 2 lbs. large blue raisins (stoned) 2 lbs. currants (well washed, dried and picked). ^ lb. almonds, i oz. ginger. J oz. powdered cinnamon. i oz. Jamaica pepper. J teaspoonful black pepper. I small teaspoonful of car- bonate of soda. I small teaspoonful of cream of tartar. I breakfastcupful of milk to moisten it. J lb. orange peel. Mix thoroughly, together with the hands and put the mixture into the lined tin. Make it flat on the top. Wet the edges round and put on the lid of paste. Prick it over with a fork and brush it over with a little egg, and put it into a steady, moderate oven for 3 hours. This makes a large rich bun at very little exi)ense, and it improves with keeping. C. Sangster.143 SHORTBREAD. f lb. of flour. . h lb. butter. 2 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. I tablespoonful Brown & Poi- son’s cornflour. J teaspoonful vanilla. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, then add vanilla. Mix the flour and cornflour thoroughly, and place in the oven for a little to heat. Pass them through a sieve and add gradually to creamed butter, mixing with a knife. Knead a very little. Turn dough on to a floured paper and roll out, pinch edges, dab top with fork, put into good oven and bake I of an hour. Miss M. S. Murdoch, 13 Bothwell Terrace, Billhead, Glasgow. AYRSHIRE SHORTBREAD. 4 ozs. flour. I 2 ozs. castor sugar. 4 ozs. liutter. ^ an egg. 4 ozs. rice flour. 1 I tablespoonful cream or milk. Mix dry ingredients together, rub in butter and mix to stiff dough, with aid of egg and cream. Turn on to floured board, roll out to one-eighth of an inch in thickness. Prick and cut into shapes, place on greased papered tin. Bake in moderate oven till a pale brown colour. Cool on sieve and dredge with castor sugar. SHORTBREAD. i lb. butter. I i oz. rice flour. 14 OZ.S. flour. I I oz. ground rice. ^ lb. castor .sugar. Put all ingredients upon a baking board, and work thoroughly with the hands, until it becomes a soft dough. Divide in two, and shape into round cakes, i inch thick. Prick all over with a fork, and with the handle of a knife (which occasionally dip in flour) mark round edges. Bake in a moderate oven for hours. When brown cover over, but allow to remain full time in oven., Place on rounds of paper before putting in. Miss M‘Crak.144 SHREWSBURY BISCUITS. 8 ozs. flour. I 4 ozs. sugar. 4 ozs. butter. j i egg. A few drops of essence of lemon. Cream the butter and sugar. Add egg, flour, and essence, and make into a dough. Roll out thinly and cut into shapes. Bake about lo minutes. A. Brunton, Edin. SILVER CAKE (German). 7 whites of eggs. I J lb. flour. \ lb. castor sugar. I | lb butter. Vanilla essence. Beat the whites of the eggs very stiff and then mix in the sugar, flour, vanilla and melted butter (not hot). Pour the mixture into a buttered cake tin and bake slowly till browned. Miss Helen Rankine, Edinburgh. SODA SCONES. I lb. of flour. J teaspoonful cream of tartar. I teaspoonful baking soda. ^ teaspoonful of salt. Mix together, and mix to a wet dough with buttermilk. Flour board well, and knead in lightly as much more flour as it will take up. Do not knead too much. The softer you put out the scones the better. Bake on a hot girdle, turning once. Mrs R. Mii.ler, Airdrie. SPRINGFIELD CREAM PUFFS. In I cupful water, melt J a cupful of good butter, add a little salt, and bring to a boil. When boiling dredge into the water i cupful flour, stirring rapidly to prevent lumpiness, for 5 or 7 minutes. Take off the range, and when cool, add separately 3 eggs without beating them. After adding each egg beat the dough until thoroughly mixed. Drop on well- buttered tins in portions about the size of an egg, and bake in fairly quick oven for about 25 minutes. Avoid opening the oven door or re-making the fire during this time. This quantity should make 13 good sized cakes. When cold split carefully and fill the hollow inside with whipped cream. Leave plenty 6f room between the portion of dough for rising.145 SULTANA CAKE. lo ozs. flour. 8 ozs. butter. 8 ozs. castor sugar. 3 ozs. sweet almonds. 2 ozs. mixed candied peel. Grated rind of i lemon. I teaspoonful baking powder. 4 eggs; Beat sugar and butter to a cream. Have the flour sifted, add I egg at a time, then a spoonful of the sifted flour, stir well, then beat again, and so on till all the eggs and flour are added. Mix the baking powder with the last spoonful of flour, have all the fruit picked and ready, stir into the mixture. Mix well. Have a cake tin ready lined with buttered paper, put in the cake and bake in a moderate oven for 2 or 2^ hours. R. P. SYRUP CAKE. 8 tablespoonfuls of flour, i teaspoonful baking soda. I teaspoonful cinnamon. J teaspoonful allspice. ^ teaspoonful ginger. I teaspoonful salt. 3 dessertspoonfuls syrup. 4 dessertspoonfuls butter. 4 dessertspoonfuls brown sugar. I egg. I teacupful of buttermilk. Mix all dr)' ingredients together in a basin. Melt together the butter, syrup, and sugar, and pour them into the dry in- gredients. Next add the egg and buttermilk, and mix very well. Pour into a well-greased tin, and bake in a slow oven for about f of an hour. Chris. Murray, 20 Alexandra St., Dowanhill, Glasgow. TEA SCONES. ^ lb. of flour. I des.serLs[wonful of sugar. I dessertsfKjonful of butter. A little salt. 2 dessertspoonfuls Paisley flour. I egg. Sweet milk. Add Paisley flour to the other, also butter,-salt and sugar, and rub together. Beat egg and milk together and add. Knead as little as possible. Cut into small shapes and Ijake on a hot girdle. Mrs R. Miller, Airdrie. K146 TIBBIE SHIELS’ SCONES. (77ie original Recipe of Tibbie Skids), I lb. of flour. i teaspoonful cream of tartar. I teaspoonful carb. of soda. ^ teaspoonful salt. 3 gills of buttermilk. Put the flour into a bowl, and mix through it the salt, place the soda and tartar on a plate and make it smooth with the back of a teaspoon. Mix this with the flour, and pour in the buttermilk and mix thoroughly together. Flour the baking board, pour the batter on to it, and add a little flour from time to time to prevent sticking, knead the batter until it becomes a dough stiff enough to roll out. Cut the dough in two pieces and roll each piece out round and to about I an inch in thickness, divide each round in 4 pieces, place on a heated girdle and bake for 15 minutes, turning them once. Mrs Hay, Oakleigh, Crookston, Gla.sgow. TREACLE SCONES (Brown). 1 lb. flour. 2 tablespoon fuls sugar. I oz. butter. I tablespoonful treacle. I breakfastcupful buttermilk. I teaspoonful soda. I teaspoonful ground ginger, i teaspoonful cream of tartar, i teaspoonful cinnamon. Rub butter through flour, add other dry ingredients, then treacle and buttermilk, turn out on board and roll out, cut into small rounds with a round cutter, and bake in oven for 10 minutes. Miss Gibson, i'3 Bute Gdns., Hillhead, Glasgow. vanillA cake. 4 07.S. butter. 4 ozs. flour. 3 eggs. 5 ozs. castor sugar. I oz. rice flour. ^ teaspoonful baking powder. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add the flour andJACK’S CEREAL FOODS FINEST MIDLOTHIAN OATMEAL, Pinhead, Medium, & Fine PURE MIDLOTHIAN OATFLOUR, Special for Babies and Invalids, in One Pound Tins. BEST SCOTCH BARLEY, Pot and Pearl. SPECIAL WHEAT MEAL, for BAKING. B.e;K«sTTooo- ‘ PO R RIN G E ’ Be sure and try it, for it is HOME-GROWN and HOME-MADE The HAPPY UNION of DELICACY and STRENGTH Everybody Likes It, because Happy Days and Dreamless Nights follow Breakfasts or Suppers of PoRRiNGE and Cream MANUFACTURED BY ALEXANDER JACK, Brunstane Mills, Musselburgh, Midlothian Telephone No. 325 Central Agent for the Famous Royal Diamond and Leatherbum Coals From the Colliery •0£> •<c To the CoaUScuttle Om Rm FORREST, 126 Lothian Road DEPOTS AT ALL STATIONS. PRICE LISTS ON APPLICATION. Quotations made for Delivery by Rail or Sea, or for quantities over specllled periods148 Mrs OsLER, Edinburgh. eggs alternately, and a little vanilla flavouring. Baking powder last. Bake in moderate oven i hour. Cream for Cake- 2 ozs. butter beaten to a cream. 6 ozs. icing sugar. I tablespoonful of cream. Vanilla to taste. When the cake is cold split and spread with cream VINEGAR CAKE. 6 ozs. butter. 6 ozs. ground loaf sugar. 4 eggs. I cupful of milk, t lb. flour. 1 large half-teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. 2 tablespoonfuls vinegar. I lb. sultanas (or mixed peel if preferred). Beat to a cream the butter, add the sugar and beat for a short time, drop in the eggs one by one, beating well all the time. Take a separate dish and mix together the milk and carbonate of soda and vinegar, pour this into the other mixture and stir thoroughly, then add the flour gradually, next the sultanas or peel, and mix well together. Butter a tin well, and bake for i| hours. Mrs G.^rvie. WALNUT CAKE (American). 1 cupful of sugar. 2 cupfuls flour. I cupful walnuts. I cupful stoned raisins I teaspoonful cream of tartar. ^ cupful of milk. 1 cupful of butter. 2 eggs. ^ teaspoonful baking soda. The usual method of mixing all American cakes, is to beat butter alone with a wooden spoon till thick and creamy, then sugar is well beaten in. The yolks of eggs next, then soda dissolved in milk. The flour, with cream of tartar mixed in it, and finally whites (jf eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Walnuts and raisins cut in small pieces. Iced.PRESERVES, &c. AMBER JAM. To every i lb. of carrots allow i lb. crushed sugar, Grated rind of i lemon. The strained juice of 2 lemons. 6 chopped bitter almonds. Select young carrots, wash, scrape, cut into round pieces, simmer until soft, then beat through a hair sieve. Weigh the pulp and allow to every i lb. the above ingredients. Boil for 15 minutes wath sugar and pulp together, stirring and skimming all the time. When cold add lemon rind, juice, almonds, and pour into pots. APRICOT JAM. 2 lbs. dried apricots soak in 2 quarts of water for 24 to 30 hours. Then cut fruit in quarters and simmer gently till all is tender. Add 5 lbs. loaf sugar and boil till jellied. Blanch a few sweet almonds, cut them up and boil in jam instead of kernels. This should make 10 lbs. of jam. Miss Irvine, 65 Morningside Pk., Edin. LEMON CHEESE. I lb. fine sugar. 6 well switched eggs. -j- lb. butter. The grated rind of 2 lemons. The juice of 3 lemons. Put all into a jar and stand in a pan of boiling water, .stirring gently until it thickens. Mrs Cunningham, Trinity. MARMALADE. 12 Seville oranges. 2 lemons. 4 sweet oranges. 6 quarts cold water. 10 lbs. sugar. Wa.sh and wipe the oranges and lemons, peel them, and cut off as much of the white pith as possible. Cut the peel into .shreds all one length, about f an inch long. As the peel is cut put it into a basin with the water in it, so that none of the flavour is lost. 'I'hen slice the fruit part thinly taking care to remove the jiips, add this to the basin with the peel. Stand for 24 hours, then put in preserving pan with the sugar and boil .steadily for if hours. Stir and skim150 carefully now and then. Put a little on a plate to get cold, and if the syrup part is like jelly it has been boiled enough, and the shreds should look almost transparent. Pour into jars and tie down. O. J. W. PRESERVED RASPBERRIES. To every i lb. of raspberries i lb. of preserving sugar. Put the raspberries on a flat dish, crush the sugar and put on separate flat dish, put both in the oven till thoroughly hot through, then mix. Put in bottles with corks, or tied down with paper and kept in a dark place. The fresh flavour of the raspberry is kept. Put in custard cups with whipped cream on top makes a pretty sweet. Miss J. Smith, i St Mary’s Villas, Chiselhurst, Kent. RHUBARB JELLY. 7 lbs. rhubarb. 2 teaspoonfuls powdered Sugar. alum. The rhubarb for this jelly should be of a fine quality, very fresh and in good season. Wash and cut the rhubarb in ^ inch pieces. Put into preserving pan with i breakfastcupful of water. Put it over a slow fire and let it remain till it is quite cooked and the juice extracted. Pour it all into a jelly bag and let it drip all night. Measure the juice, and to each large breakfastcupful add I lb. sugar, and to the whole quantity 2 teaspoonfuls of powdered alum. Stir till it boils and let it boil for 10 mins. This jelly is delicious and always turns out well. Miss M'Gillivray, Edinburgh. TO BOTTLE DAMSONS FOR WINTER USE. Have the fruit picked when dry. Weigh it; and to every I lb. of fruit add lb. sugar. Pour a small quantity of water into the- preserving pan (just sufficient to keep the fnait from catching). Put in the fruit and sugar. Cook slowly. Just let it come to the boil and let it simmer gently until the fruit begins to crack. Take up and bottle while hot\ tie down at once with parchment paper or bladder. Be careful in stirring the fruit not to break the damsons more than possible. Anne Gray Kerr.151 VEGETABLE MARROW PRESERVE. The marrow should be quite ripe, and allow to stand for a few days. Rub it carefully with a damp towel. Skin it rather thickly, and remove the heart. Put heart, seeds and skins on in the jelly pan, covered with water. Boil ^ an hour and strain. Cut the marrow into pieces about 2 inches by i. Weigh this, and to every i lb. of marrow, allow I lb. of Demerara sugar, and rind and juice of J a lemon. Put the sugar in the pan, adding for each r lb. r teacupful of seed and skin liquid. Bring to the boil and add fruit, lemon juice, and rind, also 2 oz. of stick ginger. Boil 45 minutes (till clear), stirring almost constantly. Note.—A little finely chopped preserved ginger chips may be added. Apples may be done this way also. X.Y.Z. BOSTON CREAM. 2j lb. sugar. J lb. tartaric acid. I teaspoonful ginger. I teaspoonful essence of lemon. Whites of 3 eggs well-beaten. Put the sugar to boil with 6 tumblerfuls of water. Strain this over the acid. When cool, add the essence and whites of eggs and ginger. Bottle it. To make the drink, fill up ^ of a tumbler with above, add cold water, and put in a pinch of carbonate of soda to effervesce. Miss Goodwin. LEMONADE (No. i). I lb. loaf sugar boiled in f a pint of water for 5 mins. Strain into jug containing ^ oz. citric acid. Stand till cold and add 20 to 30 drops essence of lemon. S. F., Portobello. LEMONADE (No. 2). Rub ^ lb. of lump sugar into the rind of 2 lemons until it has absorbed all the oil from them ; then mix with a quart of boiling water, and the juice of 3 large lemons, in a stone jug, until the supr has dissolved. Then beat up the white of I egg to a stiff froth, and mix with the liquid. Lastly, strain the whole through a piece of fine muslin. When cool the lemonade will be ready for use. Mrs Brown, Monkdyke, Renfrew.152 LEMONADE (No. 3). I lb. lump sugar. ^ teaspoonful ess. of lemon. ^ oz. tartaric acid. i oz. tincture of orange. Put sugar in a jug, and pour sufficient boiling water on to cover^ it, stir until dissolved, then add other ingredients, pour into a bottle. When wanted, put a tablespoonful in a tumbler, and fill up either with water or any other tereated water. Mrs Douglas Wilson, Edinburgh. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. 3 lbs. rasps. | 3 qt. bottles white vinegar. Crush the rasps and allow all to lie in basin for a couple of days. Then squeeze through a cloth, add i lb. sugar to each pint of juice, and boil 20 minutes. Bottle when cool. Mrs MTntosh. RHUBARB WINE. 4 gallons rhubarb. | 26 lbs. Demerara sugar. 4 gallons water. | 9 oz. ginger. J oz isinglass. Cut the rhubarb into pieces, and mash in a large tub or pan (a clean dolly is most suitable for this) Add equal quantity of water to fruit. Let it stand 8 days, then put the liquor when strained, into a clean barrel of suitable size. To a gallon barrel put in 26 lbs. Demerara sugar and 9 oz. of unbleached ginger (crushed). Stir up, and thoroughly mix all together, after which, leave it to ferment until it ceases, the bung being kept loosely and lightly on. Put I an oz. of best isinglass in its natural state on the top of the liquor, leaving it to settle down into it. Bung up the barrel, taking care to place a piece of thin linen under the bung and overlapping the barrel. This is best tapped in from 6 to 12 months. Miss Goodwin, Edinburgh.153 SWEETS. BROWN COCOANUT TABLET. 4 lbs. moist brown sugar. i pint cold water. I cocoanut. J teaspoonful baking powder. Put the sugar into a brass pan with the cold water, stir till it comes to the boil, and allow it to boil till it forms long threads from the spoon. Have a large cocoanut grated, add it and the milk of the nut to the sugar and stir for 5 minutes longer over the fire, then remove the pan from the fire, add the baking powder and stir quickly till it begins to thicken, pour it into a buttered tin and mark in squares before it is cold. Miss Stevenson, 26 Newbattle Ter., Edin. CARAMELS. J lb. grated chocolate. i teacupful hot water, j lb. loaf sugar. ^ oz. butter. I teaspoonful vanilla. Put all the ingredients into a clean saucepan together and boil for 10 minutes, stir constantly and pour into buttered tins ; then cut into squares. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. CARAMEL TOFFEE. li lljs. white sugar. | \ 11). salt butter. 14 teacupfuls butter milk. Boil for ^ an hour, dish into buttered tin, when nearly cold cut into sf|uarcs, and let it stand in tin till hard. Miss R. C. Blvth, Abbotsford, Crookston.154 COCOANUT ICE. Boil I cupful of milk with i cupful of sugar for 20 mins., remove from fire and stir in lb. of dessicated cocoanut Put one half of the mixture on a flat tin; colour the • remainder with cochineal, and add to the first while hot. Miss Place. COCOANUT TABLET. teacupfuls dessicated cocoanut. I small teacupful sweet milk. 4 teacupfuls fine granulated sugar. \ teaspoonful vanilla. Put on sugar and milk in an enamelled pot and stir well till all is moistened, add cocoanut, and place pot on not too hot a fire, stirring constantly. Boil for 10 minutes, then take off and add the vanilla, and beat the mixture with a spoon till it turns thick. Pour into a buttered tin and let stand till cold. Miss M. S. Murdoch, 13 Bothwell Ter., Hillhead, Glasgow COFFEE CARAMELS. lbs. sugar. I gill milk. I gill water. ^ oz. butter. I large tablespoonful glucose. Put sugar and water in a pan. Melt very slowly, then boil to 260 degrees. Then add milk and butter, and reboil till a little dropped in cold water will snap. Shortly before this, add enough cafolin essence to colour and flavour. Pour on to a greased tin, and when slightly firm mark into squares. \A'hen quite hard break or cut up, and wrap each piece in waxed paper. These are delicious sweets. N. S. A. CREAM TOFFEE. J lb. salt butter. 4 lb. Demerara .sugar. 4 lb. granulated sugar. 4 Ih- syrup. 4 lb. tin Swiss milk (Milkmaid Brand). Mi.x ingredients and boil for ^ an hour. Constant stirring. Miss Thomson, 34 Regent Place, Edin.155 EVERTON TOFFEE. I lb. granulated sugar. | i lb. golden syrup. ^ lb. butter. Put butter into pan, and when melted add syrup and sugar. Boil lo minutes and try in cold water. When it crisps in the water pour into a greased tin, and when half cold score it across with knife. Mrs M‘Intosh. GINGER TOFFEE. 3 lbs. Demerara sugar. I 2 oz. fresh butter. I teacupful milk. | Ginger to taste. Boil sugar, milk, and butter for about 20 minutes, stirring frequently. Then before pouring out add a ^ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda and let boil for 2 minutes longer. Mrs Christie, Brunstane Mills, Musselburgh. MARZIPAN POTATOES. I lb. icing sugar. !■ J lb. ground almonds. Whites of 2 eggs. Mix ingredients into smooth paste, and form into round pieces with the hand, and dust over with cinnamon. Miss Blyth, Abbotsford, Crookston, Glas. QUEEN’S TOFFEE. ^ lb. white sugar. I lb. brown sugar. J lb. butter. Boil ^ an hour. i teacupful syrup, i teacupful cream, ozs. chocolate. M. C. Thomson, Glasgow. RUSSIAN TOFFEE. 3 ozs. butter (melted). 2 teacupfuls sugar (white). 2 tablespoonfuls syrup. i tin condensed milk. Boil 20 to 25 minutes, stir all the time, when ready add i teaspoonful essence of vanilla, mix through, and pour into buttered tin. Mi.ss Janet K. Hamilton, I Myrtle Park, Crossbill, Glasgow.156 TOFFEE (No. i). 2 lbs. granulated sugar. I tin Swiss milk. I cupful sweet milk. I tablespoonful salt butter. I tablespoonful vanilla essence 3 tablespoonful cold water. Mix .sugar, water and butter in pan over a clear fire. Add Swiss milk and sweet milk, and stir gently till boiling. Boil about ^ an hour. Remove pan from fire. Add vanilla essence. M. A. B. TOFFEE (No. 2). 2 lbs. of castor sugar. I tin of condensed milk. i tin of water. ^ lb. salt butter. Boil all together for | an hour. Stirring all the time. TURKISH DELIGHT. I lb; sugar. . Juice of r lemon. I oz. gelatine. r teacupful water. Allow all to stand for a night to melt the gelatine. Boil for lo minutes and pour into greased tin. When cool cut into squares and toss in sugar. Miss Stenhouse.157 INVALID COOKERY. A FEW HINTS FOR THE SICK ROOM. 1. Have everything clean and bright. 2. Serve the food in small quantities. 3. Have it quite ready before the patient sees it, bringing no bones, skin, etc., which would only cause annoy- ance to the patient. 4. Have it just at the proper heat for supping or drinking, not too hot, for the mouth is sometimes tender in time of illness, and not too cool, which might sicken the patient. 5. Let everything be given at the proper time. 6. Measure exactly. 7. Make as little noise as possible, but do not creep about the room or whisper, especially if the patient is awake. 8. When making up the fire, a piece of wood instead of the poker makes less noise, and when refilling the coal-box the coal can be rolled in bundles with newspaper. These can afterwards be lifted out with- out noise and put on the fire, i, 2 or 3 bundles as required. 9. Have a good fire and all things in readiness before beginning to “ do up ” patient and bed for the day or night. 10. Keep all food outside the room, if possible. 11. Rub the carpet with a damp cloth (if damp is not injurious to patient), instead of switching. 12. Dust with a slightly damp duster and polish with another. 13. Do not have flowers with a heavy perfume, and remove what you do have, when preparing room for the night.158 14- A simple way of shading the gaslight from the patient’s eyes, without necessarily darkening the rest of the room, is to hang a sheet of paper on the edge of the gas globe by means of 2 pins put through or 2 dress hooks. This can easily be removed when not wanted. 15. Covering a glass of warm milk keeps a “skin” from gathering on it. 16. A good way to keep ice.—Take a thick bath towel or piece of flannel, sink the centre of it down into a wide-mouthed jar or a basin. Tie, or other- wise fasten it, so that it wont go to bottom of the jar. Lay the ice in this suspended hollow, and cover it over with the corners or another towel. Keep in a cold place. 17. To break it.—lift it out, put the point of a strong darning needle into it and knock gently with a hammer or other convenient article. Take only a few pieces to the sick room at a time. 18. Avoid making “little noises,” such as rustling the leaves of a book or the clicking of knitting needles. Jean Lambie, Edinburgh. ALBUMENIZED EGG. Sometimes a patient cannot take even a lightly boiled egg, so doctors try this plan, anyone can take it then. Break a raw egg into a basin of cold water and let it soak for 12 hours. Strain off water very carefully and poach egg in boiling water and a little salt. When it has been soaked the egg will look much smaller, and be white and opaque looking. You must pour water off very gently, or you will pour it all away. N. Thomson, Leeds. APPLE FOOL. 4 apples. I 2 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Sponge cake. | i egg. Bake apples till soft. Then scrape the pulp out. Add sugar and cake crumbled up and one egg beaten. YTisk all together, stir over Are till hot, and serve either hot or cold. N. T., London.The Edinburgh Carpet Warehouse ESTABLISHED 18th CENTURY. FAMED FOR CARPETS . CARPETS, An unequalled selection of all makes . Prices ranging from 2s. to 4 guineas per yard. FURNITURE, The Newest and most Up-to-date Designs in Furnishings suitable for every room. An ex- ceptional selection WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED CATALOGUE. PATERSON, SMITH & INNES 77 SOUTH BRIDGE — EDINBURGH160 APPLE WATER. Take 2 apples, peel them, take out the core, slice up thinly. Take a small piece of yellow rind of lemon just enough to give a flavour. Put this with the sliced apples and a little sugar into a jug. Pour a pint of boiling water over them, when cold, strain. T. B. M. A VERY LIGHT SPONGE CAKE. 3 figgs- I 6 ozs. lump sugar. 5 ozs. of sifted flour. | i gill water. Separate eggs, and beat whites to a stiff froth. Put yolks in large basin. Mix well with a wooden spoon, add the whites when stiffly beaten. Boil sugar and water together, pour on to the eggs, whisk for 20 minutes, then stir in flour. Pour into a prepared tin and bake in a slow oven i hour. Mrs Guthrie, Ellenbank, Cathcart. BARLEY WATER. Thoroughly wash 2 ozs. of barley. Put on in a clean pot on the fire with 2 quarts of cold water and boil it, until it is reduced to i quart. Then strain it and let it cool; add a little sugar. A slice of lemon, or an apple cut in slices may be added. N. T., London. BEEF TEA (No. i). Have red juicy meat, free from fat. Cut it down to shreds or very small pieces. Put it into a suitable dish (jelly jar), and pour on 3 breakfastcupfuls of cold water to I lb. of meat. Add a pinch of salt, w'hich aids in drawing out the juice. Cover the jar and allow it to soak i or 2 hours if possible, stirring and pressing the meat frequently. Then set it in a pot with sufficient iuke-wann water to come up the jar as far as tea water does. Cover and let stand in a warm place for i hour, or perhaps longer. The water in the pan should not boil. Stir and press frequently also, during cooking. When ready pour through a coarse strainer. Season to taste, adding a little pepper, if condition of patient can allow of it. Remove all fat, by lifting it off the top with blotting paper or clean thick brown paper.IGl To have some always ready, but still fresh, make it in small quantities, say ^ lb., having several in course of pre- paration at different stages. In cases when beef-tea is wanted very hurriedly, put meat shredded, water, and a pinch of salt, into a small pan, hold over a gentle fire, stirring and pressing meat until tea is thick and brownish, but it must not boil. Finish as with the other. Jean Lambie, Edinburgh. BEEF TEA (No. 2). Take i lb. of lean beef, cut it up in small pieces, put it into a saucepan with a mutton shank without much meat, have the bone broken and wash it in cold water. Add 3 pints of cold water and a teaspoonful of salt. Allow to simmer over a gentle fire for 2| hours. Strain and thicken with vermicelli or arrowroot. F. B. G. BEEF TEA CUSTARD. J pt. beef tea. | i egg. Salt and pepper. Beat up I egg, add beef tea and seasoning, and put into greased basin. Cover with greased paper and steam gently for lo minutes. Custard water should not boil after custard is put in. A. G. Brown, London. BEEF TEA PUDDING. 1 gill of Ijeef tea. i egg. 2 table.spoonfuls breadcrumbs. ^ oz. butter. Soak the breadcrumbs in beef tea for lo minutes, beat them well with a fork, add the egg (previously well-beaten). Grease a small basin with butter, pour in the mixture. Cover with buttered paper, put the basin into a pan of boiling water. Let the water come half-way up the basin, and steam for 20 minutes. F. B. G. b162 BOILED ARROWROOT. Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot with a small (luantity of cold water, add gradually ^ a pint of boiling water or boiling milk. Then boil for 5 minutes, stirring the whole time. When wine or brandy is ordered to be given it should be added when the food is sufficiently cooled for the patient to take it. M. E. G. CALF’S FOOT JELLY. 2 pints of strong white stock, made from knuckle of veal or calves’ feet (the stock must be made without salt). 4 a pint sherry. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. 10 ozs. sugar, f oz. stick cinnamon. 20 cloves. 2 lemons. Beat the whites and shells to a froth, then put all the ingredients into a jelly pan, bring slowly to the boil, whisking all the time, and strain through a jelly bag. Mrs Guthrie, Ellenbank, Cathcart. ‘ CHICKEN PUREE. Joint the chicken, and stew gently with a very little .salt till tender, in sufficient water to form a jelly when the chicken is cooked. Then take the white meat and pound well in a mortar or bowl with a wooden spoon. Pour the strained liquid over, set in a wetted mould. Given in tea- spbonfuls, in cases of extreme weakness, it is wonderfully efficacious. F. B. G., London. CONVALESCENT BEEF TEA. i lb. lean beef. I carrot. I turnip. Thin slice of scalded onion. A blade of mace. A sprig of herbs. Marjoruni. I sprig parsley. Salt and pepper. Prepare beef as usual, wash very well. Put into a jar and cook as ordinary beef tea. When ready, strain and serve. F. B. G.163 CREAM CHICKEN. The breast of a fowl. [ Small leacupful of cream. I’epper and salt. Pound the raw chicken in a mortar or bowl, then rub through wire sieve. Put it into a small basin with a little salt and pepper, beat it up with a fork for a few minutes, adding the cream very gradually until it is quite light. Wet a small mould and put it in. Cover with a piece of paper, and poach in boiling water for 20 minutes. M. B., Manchester. DISH FOR AN INVALID. Take about 2 oz. of the breast of roast fowl, mince very fine, season lightly with salt and pepper. Boil i oz. of macaroni first in water until soft, cut into small slices and boil in teacupful of milk for 10 minutes, stir in the minced fowl, beat up an egg and add to the mixture. Stir over the hot plate until thick, pour into a mould or basin. It can either be eaten cold or a slice cut off and warmed for the invalid. This preparation is very nourishing and easy of digestion. Emma M. Millar, 14 Fettes Row, Edinburgh. EGG FOAM. White of I fresh egg. A pinch of salt or a little Milk. sugar. Put milk on to boil in a wet, covered pan. Beat up the egg very stiff, add seasoning and beat again. A little nut- meg may be allowed. When the milk boils, lift into it a spoonful of the white, and keep turning till it has risen high. More than one may be done at a time. Drain on to a nice dish and serve at once with perhaps a little sugar and one or two fingers of dry toast or a plain biscuit. Jean Lambie, Edinburgh. EGG JELLY. By kind permission of ]. !k. Q. Cox, Ltd. I oz. of Cox’s gelatine. I pt. of water. Well-l>eaten yolks of 4 eggs. Soak the gelatine in the water for about 10 minutes, 3 ozs. of sugar. The grated rind and juice of I lemon.164 Then place them in a stewpan with the sugar and lemon, and stir over the fire until the mixture almost comes to simmering point. Have ready the well beaten yolks of the eggs in a basin, and add to them the contents of the stewpan. Return to the pan and stir over the fire for a few seconds, but do not let it boil. AVhen nearly cold, strain into a mould previously wet with cold water. If wanted for an invalid, set in little moulds, in order that it may be served in conveniently small quantities, so essential in sick room cookery. This is a soothing drink in a liquid warm state. EGG SNOW. I I teaspoonful su<far (to taste). I taljlespoonful milk. Orani^e or lemon juice. Put the yolk into a small basin, the white on a plate, beat the white to a stiff froth with a knife. Add the sugar, milk, and juice to the yolk, beat well, then stir the white in very lightly, and serve it in a clean, bright tumbler. Can be flavoured with any kind of fruit (fresh). N. T.vggart, London. FISH CREAM. I haddock (i lb. in weight). 1 slice bread (inch thick). 2 teaspoonfuls of cream. A little milk. 2 small eggs. A little grated lemon rind. Salt and pepper. Have the fish skinned and filleted. Scrape the flesh down and rub through a wire sieve. Soak bread in the milk for J an hour, then press as much of the milk out as possible. Put the bread into a basin and break it up finely, then add the fish. Wash and dry lemon, then add the rind (grated finely) and ^ a teaspoonful of salt. Add eggs beaten up and mix all together, lastly add the cream. Butter a plain mould or bowl, pour in the mixture, cover with buttered paper, and steam very gently for hours. Mrs Brown, Mondyke, Renfrew,1G5 FISH CUSTARD. I breakfaslcupful of cooked 2 eggs. white fish. i a pint of milkv Salt and pepper. Flake the fish and lay in a slightly buttered pie-dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Beat up eggs, add milk and pour it over fish in the pie-dish. Bake in a moderate oven for ^ an hour till custard sets. Mrs Guthrie, Ellanbank, Cathcart, Gla.sgow. GOOD SOUP FOR AN INVALID. I fowl. A knap bone. 12 breakfast'cupfuls water. ^ lb. rice (if liked). Some finely-chopped parsley. Pepper and .salt. Get the bone broken up, then wash it, and put it on with cold water and boil gently all day, then strain. Next morning remove all the fat and put on the water; when it boils skim it and add the fowl (breast down), add the rice and parsley 20 minutes or J an hour before the fowl is ready. Season and serve. The rice may be left out, but the fowl should be put back in the soup and left in it till it is next used. By so doing it will re-absorb a good portion of its own juices. Should the water boil in too much on the first day add a little more to it before boiling the fowd. Jeannik Ross, Garriethill Manse, 98 St George’s Rd., Glas. INVALID’S CAKE. 3 kirge or 4 small eggs. The weight of 3 eggs in castor I teaspf)onful'baking jX)wder. sugar and flour. Line a cake tin with buttered paper. Beat the eggs and sugar until thick and nearly white, then stir the flour in very lightly; add the baking powder last. Put it at 07ice into the tin and bake about f of an hour. N.B.—1. If any flavouring is wished for, grated lemon rind is the most wholesome. 2. This is called “ Invalid’s Cake ” because there is no fat in it. It is very light and digestible if properly made. If the beating of eggs is done with a whisk, cake will be much lighter. A. G. Brown, London.166 INVALID’S PUDDING. 3 stale id. sponge cakes. Sugar to taste. i pt. milk. Preserve or any fresh soft fruit. Slice the cake,s cross ways and if fresh fruit is used crush it with a little sugar; then put layers of cake and fruit or preserve in a small pie-dish, finishing with cake. Pour the milk over (taking care to soak the top layer of cake, or it will be dry), and bake about 20 minutes in a moderate oven. —A little grated lemon or orange rind, sprinkled on the cake instead of fruit is sometimes preferred. A. G. Brown, Nurses’ Home, 9 Newington Green, Mildmay Park, London, N. INVALID’S TART. I lb. apples. Sugar. A little nutmeg. One small sponge cake. 1 teacup of milk. 2 eggs. Stew the apples with sugar and nutmeg. Place in a pie- dish, and smooth over. Slice the cake over. Boil the milk, stir into it the yolks of eggs and i dessertspoonful sugar. Stir over the fire until it thickens. Then pour over the cake. Beat the whites of eggs with a very little sugar. Spread over and place in the oven to firm. N. P., Southampton. KONMISS. 4^ pts. new milk. | tumblers good but(ermilk. 6 or 7 lumps of loaf sugar. Mix all together in a large jar and put at side of fire for 8 or 9 hours (not too hot). Allow to get gradually warm until it thickens. Break it thoroughly by pouring from one jar to another for perhaps 20 times. Put into pint bottles, cork tight, and on following day tie corks down with wire. Best when 8 days old. An invalid may digest the above when able to digest nothing else. Miss MacGillivray, London Rd.1G7 LEMONADE. To make good lemonade 2 lemons ought to be used for each pint. Take off as thinly as possible the whole of the yellow rind. Avoid entirely the white, as the smallest piece would make a bitter taste. Put the rind into a jug, add 2 oz. of lump sugar, cut the lemons, and squeeze the juice through strainer into the jug. Pour over these i pint of quite boiling water. Leave the jug slightly covered to stand aside until the lemonade is cold, then strain for use. T. B. M. LINSEED TEA. Wash 2 ozs. of linseed by putting them in a small strainer, and pouring cold water through it. Take off thinly the yellow rind of a lemon. To the linseed and lemon rind add a quart of cold water, and allow them to simmer for hours. Strain away the seeds, and to each ^ pint of tea add a teaspoonful of sugar and some lemon juice. (The juice of I lemon to each pint of tea). F. G. MILK JELLY. I pt. of milk. The rind of i lemon. J oz. isinglass. Sugar to taste. Put the isinglass into a pan with the milk, add the sugar and the rind of a lemon as thinly peeled as possible. Let it stand on the stove until it is warm. Then put it on the fire, bring it to the boil, stirring all the time. Strain into a shape or bowl. Allow it to cool. It will then be a beautiful jelly. A. Scott. OATMEAL GRUEL. I large tablespoonful oatmeal. A little sugar. li breakfastcupfuls cold water. Salt. 2 tablespoonfuls of sweet milk (if desired). .Soak the meal in the water for an hour, then strain all the lifluid off. Stir over the fire till it boils. Boil till it is like cream in thickness. Add salt, sugar, and milk according to taste, anti boil a few minutes longer. A quicker way.—Moisten the meal with a little cold168 water, when quite smooth, pour on boiling water, using same quantity as in other way. Stir one minute, and strain off liquid. Cook same as the other. When cooled sufficient for supping it should be almost as thick as curds, but when made for a hot drink, use more water. It is sometimes used without boiling, when for a cold, being strained into a hot jug, add salt, pepper, sugar, and butter, but no milk. J. L., Edinburgh. ORDINARY CHICKEN BROTH. Take a fowl, the younger the better, and after disjointing it, place it in a stewpan with a quart of water, a very little salt. Boil slowly 2 hours. Cool and skim. M. S. QUADRUPLE SOUP. I lb. of beef. i Ib. veal. I lb. mutton. I o.v fool. Put on with 4 pints of cold water, and simmer (not boil), for 8 or 9 hours, until it is reduced to 3 pints. Strain into jars. When cold and firm there will be about i oz. of fat on each jar—this must not be taken off until wanted for use. When wanted for use .bring the soup to boil, add pepper and salt. One jar ought to make 3 breakfastcupfuls of soup. A. O’Riley, Matron, Ireland. RAW BEEF TEA. Lean juicy meat. | Cold water. Pinch of .salt. Shred the meat finely. Put it into a bowl with salt, and just cover with water. Let it stand covered i or 2 hours as is convenient, pressing it frequently. When required, strain through a coarse muslin or sieve, and serve in red coloured glass, which hides the colour from the patient. When wine of any kind is being given, it is .sometimes added to this. This makes the taste less unpleasant. Noie.—Bone marrow is done in the same way. Another Way of getting the juice out of meat, but riclier, is to bold the meat near to the fire for i or 2 seconds, then wring it with the fingers, lieat it again and wring again, into a spoon or very small dish. Compared to the otherGEORGE Gow, 100 Easier Road EDINBURGH INCREASED TEA DUTY OF 2d. PER POUND. GEORGE GOW,, Tea Merchant, loo Easter Road, Edinburgh, has pleasure in informing his customers and the public generally that having been fortunate in securing a large stock of the specially choice growths of first crop Ceylon and Darjeeling Teas before the increase of duty was enforced, he is in a position to offer his well-known blends of Tea at the old prices, without any advance whatever. Purchasers would do well to secure a supply as long as the opportunity lasts. First comOf first served F GEORGB GOW, m’er'c'hant - 100 EASTER ROAD HOW TO MAKE TEA. Take FRESH Water, boil as quickly as possible, and use it when- ever it boils, for if allowed to boil even a few minutes, it will not e.\- tract the full strength and flavour of the Tea. After .scalding the Teapot well, put in a teas[K)onful for each person to partake, “and one for the Teapot” ; infii.se in a cosy for ten minutes, but never more than fifleen. Orders called for daily and punctually attended to.170 way, very much less juice is got out, but it is very much stronger, having no water, and can be swallowed with less effort. The meat can afterwards be used for a general purpose. Jean Lamrie, Edinburgh. RAW EGG. By kind permission of Liebig’s Extract of Meat Coy. Time—5 minutes. I egg. I lablespoonful of milk. A pinch of salt. J teaspoonful of Liebig Company’s extract of meatf Heat the milk and dissolve in it the “ Lemco.” Whip up the white of the egg to a stiff froth, first adding the salt, then stir in lightly the yolk and the milk. Pile up on a small dish and serve. RESTORATIVE GRUEL. I oz. of barley. | i oz. of sago, fine. I oz. of rice. ^Vash each in cold water, put into a saucepan, and add i (jLiart of cold water, set on to a gentle fife, simmer slowly for 1^ hours. Place a hair sieve over a bowl, press the thick part through, adding a little of the liquid occasionally. Boil in a saucepan, adding a tablespoonful of sugar for each pint of gruel. Pour into a basin with 4 tablespoonfuls of cream or if ordered by doctor, 2 tablespoonfuls of wine (port). M. E. G. RHUBARB WATER. Take 8 ozs. of rhubarb, wipe and clean with a cloth; cut up into as thin slices as possible. Put into a jug, add 3 ozs. of castor sugar, the yellow rind of ^ a lemon, and i quart of boiling water. When cold strain. F.G. RICE CANDLE. ^Vash a taldespoonful of rice in cold water. Boil | a pint of water in a saucepan. Put in the rice and boil until it is (juite smooth and thick enough to be agreeable. Add some sugar and a little powdered nutmeg or cinnamon, according to taste. M. S.171 SAGO OR TAPIOCA. Should be soaked in cold water for 5 or 6 hours, then allowed to simmer in the same water until the grains are clear and jelly like. F. G. SAVOURY SAGO SOUP. i pt. of beef tea. I teaspoonful sago. I yolk of egg. 1 tablespoonful cream. A little salt and pepper. I gill water to steep sago in. Steep the sago in water for about i hour, then put it on with the beef tea and bring to the boil. Put yolk of egg in a basin with cream, and mix with wooden spoon, then pour on boiling soup and stir all the time. Season and serve hot. Mrs Guthrie, Ellanbank, Cathcart, Glasgow^ SEMOLINA CREAM. 1 oz. semolina. 2 gills of milk. 2 drops vanilla. ^ oz. gelatine. I dessertspoonful sugar. 4 gill cream. Cook semolina in milk, add gelatine.. Don’t let it boil, but stir at side of fire till dissolved. Remove from fire. Add sugar and cream. Stir lightly and flavour. Pour into wetted mould. M. C. SOLE (Baked). Have a well-buttered tin. Lay in fillets of sole. Sprinkle over with salt, and a little white pepper. A little lemon juice, which helps to w'hiten fish. Have i gill of milk and I gill of water heated, wheri quite hot pour over fillets. Place buttered paper over, and cook 15 to 20 minutes, basting frequently. M. H., Leeds. STRONG CHICKEN BROTH. Remove from the chicken, lungs, liver, skin, etc. Cut the meat from it in large strips. Then take a sharp knife, and cut the.se strips across the fibres of the meat into thin shavings, removing as much of the fat as possible; i)ut the shavings into a jar, add i saltspoonful of salt, pour over them as much cold water as will cover them. Mix up thechicken with the water so as to prevent the meat from form- ing a solid mass in the jar. Cover the jar with paper. Have in readiness a saucepan containing as much cold water as will reach to i inch from the top of the jar. ^Vhen the jar is placed in, simmer gently on a slow fire for i;| hours, 'rhe saucepan being lightly covered. The bones of chicken to be broken up and placed in a pint of water, add a pinch of salt, and allow to simmer gently until the above is ready. Take all the meat of the chicken out of the jar and pound it thoroughly, adding by degrees a little of the juice from the bones, and a little water. Press the meat through hair sieve into a bowl, crushing it through with the back of a wooden spoon. Take a teacupful of the broth made from the bones, remove the fat with a piece of paper. Pour this with the thick meat broth into a saucepan. Add 4 tablespoon- fuls of cream or milk, salt and pepper. Then boil up. Wash heart sweetbread well, and soak it for 2 hours with a little salt, put in a pan and boil for 5 minutes. Then throw into cold water to blanch. Trim off all fat and skin, cut into nice pieces, and put it into the stock and bring to boil; skim carefully and simmer slowly for li hours. When (piite tender, add cream and yolk of egg, lemon juice, pepper and salt. Strain very carefully. Never touch a sweetbread with a knife. Trim with fingers, or 2 silver forks. A knife makes them tough. F. B. G., London. Have sufficient water in a pan to cover the egg, and have it boiling. Carefully put the egg in, u.sing a spocin. Lift the pan off the fire at once, put on the lid, and .set it by the side of the fire, but not to boil, for 5 minutes. 'I'liis cooks the esK in a way which renders it very easy of digestion. F. B. G., Edin. SWEETBREAD. ^ pt. .stock (white). 2 tablespoonfuls of cream. 1 yolk of egg. A .squeeze of lemon juice. Salt anrl pepper. I heart sweetbread. TO “BOIL” AN EGG.173 TOAST AND WATER. Slowly toa.st { lb. bread, with the cru.st left upon it, until the colour is deep brown. During toasting, the bread must be frequently turned. It .should first be held at a little distance from the fire, and afterwards brought nearer to it. Scald out a large jug and place the toast in it. Pour over 3 pints of boiling water. Let it stand lightly, covered until it is cold, then strain. F. G. VERMICELLI PUDDING. Boil I pint of milk and pour over a breakfastcupful of cru.shed vermicelli. Steep for 12 minutes closely covered. Stir in 3 beaten eggs. Steam in mould. WATER GRUEL. 3 tablespoonfuls Robinson’s patent groats. 3 teaspoonfuls plasmon. 2 breakfastcupfuls water. Salt to taste. Mix groats to smooth paste with little cold water, add to the rest of the water which must be, boiling. Stir gently until the whole boils and let it boil for 2 hours. Mix plasmon with small quantity of tepid water to a smooth paste, then add half teacupful of tepid water and put in small pan over fire. Keep stirring until it boils and boil for 2 minutes. When gruel is ready add plasmon; salt and ser\'e. Makes 3 teacupfuls. Good for invalids of weak digestion. A. G. Brown, London. WHITE EGG-FLIP. White of I egg. I teacupful of milk. Pinch of white pepper, or salt, or sugar. When heating milk, especially for an invalid, heat it very gradually. Wet the pan with cold water before putting in the milk. Cover with a lid and stand by the side of the fire till creamy and frothy. It is more easily digested when done in this way. Meanwhile, have the white in a tumbler. Beat with a fork till very frothy, adding seasoning. When the milk is almo.st boiling stir it among the egg. J. Lamhie, Edinburgh.174 MISCELLANEOUS. A GOOD SPRING MEDICINE. 2 teaspoonfuls of sulphur. 2 teaspoonfuls tartaric acid. 2 teaspoonfuls Epsom salts. i lemon sliced. Put the above ingredients into a jug with a quart of boiling water poured over. A wineglassful to be taken every morning before breakfast. Mrs Douglas Wilson, Edinburgh. CURE FOR RHEUMATISM. (Mrs Cochrane’s). I oz. sulphur. J oz. gumguaicum, ground. ^ oz. saltpetre. 2 nutmegs, ground. 12 ozs treacle. Mix thoroughly. Take a teaspoonful every night before going to bed. Should this be too much take a smaller quantity. FORCEMEAT BALLS FOR SOUP, 2 tablespoonfuls breadcrumljs. 2 tablespoonfuls minced veal. I tablespoonful minced ham. 1 teaspoonful grated lemon rind. 2 ozs. butter. I tablespoonful mixed suet. Salt and pepper. Dust of powdered sweet herbs. I dessertspoonful minced parsley. I egg. ^ teaspoonful Liebig Company’s extract of meat. Put the whole of the ingredients, except the butter and egg, into a basin; add sufificient well beaten to form the whole into a paste. Work well together with a wooden spoon. Form into balls about as large as a good-sized filbert and roll in flour. Heat the butter in a frying-pan till slightly brown; fry the balls in this to a nice brown; drop into the soup some minutes before serving. For clear soup veal and ham may be omitted. Liebig’s Extract of Meat Coy.175 HOT DRINK FOR A COLD. I table-spoonful of black A little sugar if desired, currant jam or jelly. i breakfastcupful boiling water. Mi.x together and drink very hot. J. L., Edinburgh. MINCE MEAT FOR CHRISTMAS PIES. I lb. of raisins. I lb. of currants. I lb. of suet. 3i lbs. of apples. ^ lb. of orange peel Rinds and juices of 2 lemons. J lb. of almonds. I teaspoonful of allspice. 1 teaspoonful of salt. I lb. of sultanas. I lb. of moist sugar. Wash, dry, and pick the currants and sultanas. Rub the raisins with a damp towel, stone and quarter them. Wash, skin, and chop the apples very finely. Chop the suet very finely, also orange peel. Blanch, skin, and chop the almonds very finely. Grate off only the yellow part of lemon rind, cut into two and squeeze and strain juice. Mix all very well together, press into a jar and cover it. Will keep quite well for several weeks at least. X.Y.Z. MINCE MEAT FOR CHRISTMAS PIES. (American). I quart each of chopped meat and .suet. 3 quarts of chopped apple. I quart of molasses. I quart of sugar. 2 nutmegs. 1 quart of vinegar. 6 teaspoonfuls of cinnamon. 2 teaspoonfuls of allspice. 2 teaspoonfuls of cloves. I teaspoonful of mace. Boil the meat and let it cool in the broth before chopping. Then add again the broth and other ingredients and boil for I hour. But into jars and keep until wanted to use. To make a mince pie proceed the same as with an apple pie, using the above in place of sliced apples. Mrs Wm. Jack, Barre, Vt., U.S.A,17G OMELETTE (American). ^ I A small piece butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Beat up eggs until very light, add butter, salt, and pepper. Put a small piece butter on pan so as eggs will not burn, and cover with lid over moderate fire. After the omelette sets, run knife under, let eggs run under so as it can be turned, then take pancake turner and brown the top by turning over. Should be 2^ inches thick and a golden brown if done properly. Mrs M‘Connell, Lambertville, N.J. PICKLE FOR BEEF OR TONGUE. S ]jints. cold water. 1 lb. saltpetre. 7 lbs. salt. I lb. treacle. Mix these well together. The pickle is then ready to receive the beef, pork, or tongue. Let it remain in pickle 8 days. This pickle will remain good 3 or 4 months. Miss Goodwin. ROYAL ICING. Beat the white quite stiff, add sugar which must be passed, through a hair sieve, and a little lemon juice. Work with a wooden spoon until the icing looks white. Then spread on the cakes with a knife dipped in hot water. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. SCOTTISH FESTIVAL DISHES. In certain districts in Scotland some of the old time festivals were celebrated by partaking of dishes that were considered peculiar to the season. They had been handed down from generation to generation as the only fit and proper way of celebrating the festivals. As these festivals are changing or dying out it may interest many to have at least the memory of them preserved in some account of the dishes associated with them.177 Yule Sowens.—On Auld Yule Eve, that is the night of the 4th of January, in the north-east of Scotland, the mystic hour of that sacred night was wont to be celebrated with a bowl of sowens. Each of the assembled household and guests, from the number of bowls filled with sowens, chose the one they thought might contain one of the prizes, for secretly before this the guidwife had placed the ring, the threepenny, the button, and the thimble; and amongst the young folks the conveted prize was, of course, the ring, and happy was the maid or youth who got the ring; it meant their marriage before another Yule. Thin sowens at Yule meant a poor crop next year. It was therefore important that due care should be had in the cooking least a careless hand should bode ill for the year that was beginning. How to make Sowens.—Sowens became famous at the siege of Mafeking, for amongst the besieged there wai a certain Aberdonian who remembered the dish of his youth and how to prepare it. He found in some of the mills a quantity of the siftings from the meal that had been thrown aside in the days of plenty, and of this he made sowens, and so greatly helped to pass through the days of famine. Sowens is made from the husks sifted from oatmeal after it is ground. These husks with the fine particles of meal still adhering are called meal-seeds. The way to prepare the sfnvens is to steep these in water in a large jar or barrel till they become sour. By this time the particles of meal have dissolved. The whole is then stirred well together and the husks are then separated from the fluid by a fine sieve. This milky fluid which remains is the sowens. It is allowed to settle, the sowens forming a fine paste at the bottom and the sf)ur water rising to the top. 'I'he sour water is then [Kjured off and clean water added. By pouring off the water occasi(»nally and adding fresh water the store of sowens will keep for a long time and be ready for cooking at any time, d'he same result, of course, can be attained at any time without meal-seeds by sinqily steeping fine oatmeal for a few days anfl carrying it through the same ])rocess. But the old time way with the meal seeds was, of course, more economical in the (lays of scarcity, and it used to be the only recognised meth(Kl of making sowens. M178 How to cook Drinking Sowens.—Yule sowenswhen prepared resembled good cream in colour and thickness. The method of cooking was to have the sowens paste reduced by water till about the thickness of new milk, and to warm it in a pail placed in a pot of boiling water, care being taken to prevent knotting by active stirring. When little over blood-heat or about half between that and boiling- point the dish was ready. It was usually sweetened with syrup, and before the days of syru[) it is said to have been served with a little butter. Boiled Sowens.—This dish of sowens is made some- what like porridge or cornflour or other white pudding. It is simply boiled till it begins to get stiff. Served with sugar and cream it makes a kind of pudding which is very palatable, and at the same time it has the virtue of being very easily digested. Beef-Brose and Sauty Bannocks.—Fastern’s Een was the time for the l)eef-brose and the sauty bannocks, and Fastern’s Een is the same as the English Shrove Tuesday. Its date is determined in the following rhyme ;— “ First comes Caiidlemas and then tlie new Mime, Next Tuesday after that, that is Fastern’s Een.” On this particular day the custom was to have for dinner beef-brose, at least, that was the first course of the dinner. It was made by pouring the boiling liquid from beef that had been boiled over oatmeal in the usual way that brose is made, which makes a very strong meal, suited to strong men who live in the open air. Bannock Night, its the same evening was called, was given up to the making of the bannocks. They were a kind of pancake, but with the years they have passed through an eviflution-—from the original sauty bannock to the fine pancake which has now taken its place where the custom has not died out. The sauty bannock was a pancake composed of oatmeal, milk, a few eggs, and salt. Later on flour was substituted for oatmeal and the salt was reduced and syrup added.179 They were baked on a well-greased girdle hung over the peat fire; and at the farms on Pastern’s Een the night was given up to bannock baking. All the hands as they sat around the kitchen fire and told their stories and cracked their jokes, had each their turn at the baking. But the great entertainment of the evening was the baking of the big bannock. When the material was about finished up more meal was added to the remainder, just enough being left to fill the girdle with one big thick bannock. But before being poured out the ring and other emblems were stirred into it. Then one was chosen to do the baking, and that one had to do it in absolute silence. Of course, it was the policy of everyone else to try and break the spell of silence. This was done by all sorts of questions and talk, but more often by trj'ing to steal the prize over which the silent baker was constituted guardian angel. We have heard of girdle and all disappearing up one of those wide old-fashioned chimneys by the clever device of one youth who went upon the roof at the right time and fished it up with a hooked wire. If it were successfully baked, however, it was cut into portions equal to the number of the company and handed round to see who would get the ring. Meal-and-Ale.—Meal-and-ale was a harvest festival dish. It was not the feast of the ingathering but when the reaping was finished. The fiirmer was said to have got cliack when the reapers had cut the last sheaf, and that night when they came home to rest from their labours he made them a feast of meal-anrl-ale. It was simply some oatmeal stirred into a basin of ale or harvest beer. It was usually sweetened with sugar and a glass or two of whisky was added. The inevitable ring and other emblems of future destiny were put in and all the harvesters stood round the one dish, each with his spoon. They ate quietly for a little, but soon there ensued a .scramble for the ring—more especially if some one dipping deeper than the rest chanced to bring the trea.sure in sight. Rev. (1. Jack, M.A., Minister of St Muntio’s.180 SOOTHING SYRUP FOR A COUGH. Mix I tablespoonful oatmeal with the yolk of i egg and i tablespoonful honey. Pour on to these i pint boiling water, stirring all the time. Return to pan and bring nearly to boil, then strain. Miss Stenhouse. STUFFING FOR A GOOSE. 2 lbs. of onions. Equal quantity of bread- crumbs. i lb. of suet chopped finely. Season with sage, salt, and pepper. Boil the onions till cooked, then mix all well together, using a little liquid if breadcrumbs are very dry. Mrs Lambie, Manchester. TO BOIL FLOUR FOR PUDDINGS. Have a large pot suitaldy filled witlr fast-boiling water. Put the flour into a white l.iag, tie it and plunge it into the water, keeping it moving up and down for a minute, then let it boil for 2 hours. Take it out, let it cool and keep it for use. Puddings made from flour prepared in this way are lighter and more easily digested. X.Y.Z. TO BOIL SEMOLINA, FAROLA, &c. It is considered by many that the best way to cook the above by boiling is to sprinkle the grain into the milk while boiling. I have found the following have a good result:— Mix the grain (i dessertspoonful to i teacupful of milk), sugar, and a little milk till smooth, add the rest of the milk and .stir till boiling. When quite boiling draw to the side a little, put lid closely on, and allow to simmer or steam for about i hour. If an egg is to be added let it cool before doing so and mix it in very quickly. The grain is well burst and the flavour of it is very fine. J. Lambie, Edinburgh.181 Jean Lambie, Edinburgh. TO MAKE PORRIDGE. 1 lablespoonful of oatmeal. J teaspoonful of salt. A little cold water. About I breakfastcupful of boiling water according to consistency desired. Try this way:—Put oatmeal into a pan, moisten and rub till smooth with cold water, then stir in the boiling water, and stir till it boils. Put on the lid and boil gently for 30 to 40 minutes. Stir occasionally, adding the salt 10 minutes before dishing. It has been advised to those with weak digestions to have the meal mixed altogether with cold water and stirred till boiling. J. L.vmbie, Edinburgh. Note.—Some like a very little semolina added. Porridge made with pease-meal in the above way is very good, and is a change from the oatmeal. Fill the kettle with freshly-drawn water. Never use water which has been in the kettle for some time. Put the kettle on to boil. Meanwhile prepare the teapots—two, make both very hot and one dry. Into the dry one put 1 teaspoonful of dry tea for every 3 teacupfuls of licpiid required. Shake the teapot high over the fire for a moment or two; this improves the flavour. Immediately the water boils pour it over the tea, put on the lid, and set pot in an equally warm place for 3 to 5 minutes for ordinary teas. When infused stir up with a spoon and strain at once into the other pot. This tea now doesn’t harm by standing a time, at least it shouldn’t if the tea used is good. The above method seems much more trouble than the customary one, but it is certainly worth it. Water, which is not boiling, should not be used for lea. When the tea is finished infuse more. The tea (leaves) should not have water poured on it a second time. This is no more expensive than putting in “ i teaspoonful for each person and i for the teapot.” The better the tea the longer it can be infused. Tea should never boil. If it does, a little cold water put in removes the boiled taste, at least partially, but it doesn’t undo the harm. In colour it should be of a dark amber, trans[)arent, not dull or leaden colour. TO MAKE TEA.I 182 ‘VEDA’ NUT PUDDING. 4 ozs. butler. 2 bzs. sugar. 2 ozs. white flour. 2 ozs. ‘ Veda’ oatmeal. 2 eggs. I large tcaspoonful Paisley flour. Place the butter and sugar in a Ijasin and cream them together with a wooden spoon. Add to this mixture one of the eggs and a little flour. Add the second egg and the remainder of the flour and contimie beating for 7 minutes. Now add the ‘Veda’ oatmeal and Paisley flour and turn into greased tin and steam for i hour. Put the flour and ‘Veda’ oatmeal into a bowl and mix through it the salt. Place the soda and cream of tartar upon a plate and make all smooth with the back of a teaspoon. Mix this also with the flour and ‘Veda’ oatmeal, pour in the buttermilk and stir all thoroughly together. Flour a mixing board, pour the batter out upon this, and, adding a little flour and ‘Veda’ oatmeal from time to time to prevent sticking, knead the batter until it becomes a dough, stiff enough to roll out. Cut the dough in 2 pieces and roll each piece out round and to 5- an inch in thickness. Divide each round into 4 pieces, place them on heated girdle and bake them 15 minutes, turning them once meantime. ‘VEDA’ OATMEAL SCONES. I llj. flour. 4 ozs. ‘ Veda’ oatmeal. I tea.spoonful carl)onate of soda. i teaspoonful cream of tartar. ^ leaspoonful salt. 3 gills buttermilk.And Agents Everywhere. 108 Princes Street, Edinburgh “VEDA” THE FASHIONABLE BREAD FOR AFTERNOON TEA THE BREAD tiTT-TpTI A OF HEALTH ▼ for young AND OLD Veda Bre "Is made entirely of the finest Home-grown Wheat, with no admixture of Extract of Malt, Chemicals, or flavourings of any kind “The great distinguishing feature of “Veda” Bread is its “digestibility, which far surpasses all other classes of “Bread on the market. “Veda” contains 8 to 9 times “more soluble food material than ordinary Bread.”— Vide ANALYTICAL REPORT OBTAINABLE AT ALL THE LEADING TEA = ROOMS From J. W. MACKIE & SONS, Ltd.184 HOUSEHOLD HINTS. A Stew must never boil, it should only simmer. In this way tough parts of meat are made comparatively tender. J. L. Rules for Roasting. — Cover meat with boiling hot fat. Lay on a raised grill out of the dripping. Put into a very hot part of oven first, then into a cooler part. Baste fretiuently. A pan (jf water in the oven keeps,meat from getting dry. Time - Mutton or Beef, 15 minutes to each I lb. and 15 minutes over; Pork, 20 minutes to each i lb. and 20 minutes over. Season before last basting. Rules for Boiling.^ Green Vegetables.—Rapidly, with lid off, salt to taste, and pinch of baking soda. Root Vegetables.—Slowly, with lid on, salt to taste. Meat.— Rapidly fiu' 5 minutes, and slcjwly after. Lid on. Fish.— "Water as salt as sea water, boiling rapidly when fish is put in, but only simmer when fish is in. IVhen bone is dull it is cooked. If .shining, it is not. Chris. Murray, 20 Alexandra St., Glasgow. Plucking Poultry.—The feathers of poultry should be picked from them as . soon as possible after the birds are killed. If warm, all the better, the feathers come out much more easily. If cold, dip the bird in a basin of very hot water. Young birds may be skinned instead of plucked. Preparing Cold Meat.—When preparing meat which is to be served cold, leave it to cool in the liquor in which it has been boiled, with no lid, until the steam stops rising. It will then be juicy, not dry. J. Lambie. Rules for making Batter.—I lb. of flour to i break- fastcupful of milk and i egg. Beat well and always the same way. Used with sausages makes “Toad-in-a-Hole”; seasonings to taste, “Yorkshire Pudding”; apples and sugar, “Apple Pudding”; sugar and flavouring, “Batter Pudding”; currant.s, “ Black Cap.” Chris. Murray, 20 Alexandra St., Glasgow.185 Glazed Meat.‘—When about to glaze meat, wash all grease off with a cloth squeezed out of very hot water, or glaze will not adhere. J. L. Herbs can be dried before the fire, or put into a paper bag, and hung up for a day or two in a warm place (from the mantleshelf), and when dried, and crisp, crush fine and bottle for use. Cleansing’ Hands.—A little dry mustard rubbed on the hands will remove the smell of fish, or any other dis- agreeable odour. Water boils when it gallops; Oil, when it is still. Fruit Pies.—When making fruit pies damp the edge of the pastry with milk instead of water, it holds better, and the juice is not so liable to boil over. C. G. D. Roast Beef Gravy.—Never pour hot water over roast beef for gravy—the water kills the flavour of the beef. Ho’w to make Meat tender.—A spoonful of vinegar, put into the water into which meat or fowls are boiled makes them tender. Chopping Suet.—When chopping suet, if it is sprinkled with a little ground rice, it will not stick to the knife, and will chop quite easily. C. G. D., London. Currants.—Buy currants 2 or 3 lbs. at a time, and wash, pick, and dry them thoroughly, before putting them into store press. They are then ready for use. Mrs M'Intosh. Test of Meat.—When meat, after pressure by the finger, rises up (quickly, it may be considered to be that of an animal in its prime. When the dent made by pressure disappears slowly or remains visible, the meat is invariably inferior. Preservation of Meat.—Meat may be kept for several days in hot weather by wrapping round it a linen cloth mrfistened with vinegar. The acid keeps off the flies and the moisture occasions cold by evaporation.186 Test of Flour.—Knead a small (jLiantity. If good, the result will be an adhesive elastic paste which will remain in any form into which it is made without liability to breakage. All Fruit should be gathered in dry weather. Cold Meat is best if not cut when warm. Fresh Vegetables will snap crisply if broken. Stale Vegetables will more readily bend than break. Nothing should be allowed to get cold in copper vessels. Leaden vessels render milk dangerously poisonous. “ Cynica,” Liverpool. How to choose Fish, Fowls, Vegetables, &c. Fish should be purchased as fresh as possible. If quite fresh it will have a firmness all over the body. It can be tested by pressing the finger in the flesh of the fish. If this rises under, the fish is good; if not, it is stale. It is not wise to judge from the brightness of the eye or the colour of the gills. Fish can be cooked in the same manner as meat. The smaller kinds are better fried. Most fish can be purchased at any time, but it is better to buy them in proper season. Fowls.—In choosing poultry of any kind they ought to be firm and fleshy to the touch. Chickens are best when they are short-legged, small-boned, and white flesh. Black- legged fowls are considered the best for roasting, white legged for boiling. Fowls are better for being killed one or two days before being dressed. Vegetables.—All vegetables should be purchased the day they are used; if allowed to stand any time they lose their crispness and flavour. All green vegetables should be placed in a little water with salt; this draws out the insects, also crisps the leaves. Vegetables should be served as soon as cooked; if allowed to remain longer in water than187 necessary tliey lose their flavour. Vegetalfles will keep best on a stone floor. Onions should be put intcj a net and hung. Chris. Murray, 20 Alexandra Street, Dowanhill, Glasgow. A few uses for old Newspapers.—For covering cup- board shelves.—Kindling fires.—Rubbing greasy dishes, pots, and pans before washing them, and use afterwards for fire.—Soak in water, then tear inter small pieces and sprinkle on cai-pet before switching.—Soak in water, roll up in coal dross, and lay in heart of fire before putting on fresh coal. This keeps red a long time and saves coal. (Soak in water with a little ammonia in it, and clean lamp funnels by squeezing through. Polish with leather.) Mrs J. F. Lambie. Soft White Paper is good for polishing glass of all description. J.L. Preparation for cleaning all Varnished Wood, Paper, and Gilt Frames. Ifigredients.—lb. glue, \ lb. washing soda. Method.—Put glue and soda in a saucepan with 2 quarts of water and' boil until quite dissolved, then take a teacupful and put into 3 pints of water. Dust woodwork, &c., first, then take a sponge and wash over with preparation. It will dry a beautiful bright polish without any rubbing. For gilt frames, &c., make solution not too strong. Mrs Douglas Wilson, Edinburgh. To restore Flannels.—When, from repeated washing, flannels have lost their colour, it may be restored by fumigating them with sulphur. An easy way to effect this is to place the burning sulphur under an inverted basket, over which the flannels may be conveniently and effectually laid. To remove Mildew from Linen. -Rub soap on the mildewed parts and scrape fine chalk on the places where the soa[) is. Several such dressings will sometimes be necessary, but will seldom fail if persevered with.188 To remove Ironmould.—Ink and ironmould on linen may be removed by salts of lemon. To clean Marble.—Marble can be cleaned with soap and water to which some ox gall has been added. Ink Stains on Table Covers.—Dissolve a teaspoonful of oxalic acid in | a pint of hot water and rub the stains with the solution. “ CvNiCA,” Liverpool. Tea Leaves can be used to sprinkle on the carpet before switching, to keep down dust. Can also be used with a very little water, shaken briskly, to clean out the part in flower-glasses, which cannot be “got at.” . J. L. Coal Ashes. — Keep some in a tin, adding a little each day, when tidying ashpans—for scouring purposes—pots, lids, burnt-dishes, sink, and metal basin, when greasy. J. L TO Clean Kid Gloves.—Cream of tartar rubbed upon soiled white kid gloves cleanses them very much. To repair a “ Hedge Tear.”—Place a piece of gutta- percha tissue larger than the rent on the inside of material, then lay a piece of lining over the tissue and iron wdth a moderately hot iron. Before ironing see that all raw edges of material are closely placed together. A tear repaired in this way is scarcely noticed. Gutta-percha tissue to be had at all rubber shops and chemists. Miss Coutts, Bruntsfield Place. To remove Oily Stains from Cloth. — Equal quantities of Fuller’s earth and magnesia pressed on the stain for ^ an hour. Miss Hamilton. Polish for Floorcloth.—2 ozs. brown wax; % oz. white wax; I oz. castile soap; pint of boiling water; i pint of turpentine. Shake till dis.solved. Mrs Cameron, 2 2 Scotia Street, Glasgow.189 Washing White Silk Blouses. — When washing white silk blouses add a little borax to the last water and iron when wet on the wrong side. They will be,like new. C. Sangster. Stings of Insects.—Apply ammonia or soda. Squeeze out the sting with a watch key. J. L. Taking Carbolic Acid Accidently. — If, through accident, carbolic acid is taken inwardly, give krge doses of. sweet and castor oil at once and have medical aid. Large quantities of milk is sometimes good. J. L. Bites of Animals.—If the animal is not mad, wash the wound well and apply cold water or carbolic dressings, but if the animal is mad, suck the wound, burn the wound, and tie something tightly round between wound and heart. Sometimes the part has been cut out. J. L. Child Sucking Matches. — If a child sucks the phosphorus off matches, give an emetic—anything to make them vomit. Tickle the throat. J. L. A good remedy for “ Chapped ” Hands.—Mix well together equal parts of glycerine and household ammonia. Bottle and cork. Wash hands, then use freely and wear washing gloves at night. Miss CouTTS, Bruntsfield Place. Hair Wash.—Camphor, id.; borax, id.; water, i quart. P.Q.R. .190 PROVISIONS IN SEASON. JANUARY.—FEBRUARY.—MARCH. Fish.—Cod, haddocks, ling, whiting, oysters, turbot. Meat.—Beef, house-lamb, mutton, pork, veal, venison. Poultry.—Turkeys, pullets, pigeons, rabbits.. Game.—Grouse, hares, pheasants, wild fowl, woodcock. Vegetables.—Brussel sprouts, carrots, leeks, parsnips, . celery, savoy, broccoli. Fruits.—Apples, grapes, pears, walnuts, oranges, almonds, raisins, dates, hgs, prunes. APRIL. MAY. JUNE. Fish.—Cod, flounders, salmon, trout, whiting, turbot. Meat. -Beef, mutton, veal, gra.ss-lamb. Poultry. — Fowls, chicken.s, ducklings, pigeons. ■ . ( * . . . Vegetables.—Cucumber, lettuce, spinach (sjwing),cabbage, carrots, peas, beans, cauliflower. Fruits.—Apjdes, pears, rhubarb, melons, gooseberries, raspberries, strawberries, cherries. JULY.—AUGUST.—SEPTEMBER. Fish.—Herring, ling, soles, haddock, flounders, salmon, turbot, whiting. Meat.—Mutton, beef, veal, lamb, ])ork. Poultry. —Fowls, chickens, geese, ducks, lark.s.Variety of beautifully designed Boots and Shoes for the coming season. 123 PRINCES STREET Maison de Modes 70 GEORGE STREET EDINBURGH J/nUinery J^antles Cosfurrjes ^louses . furs Xace Goods, DRESSMAKING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES.192 Vegetables.—Cauliflower, lettuce, cres.s, peas, turnips, carrots, tomatoes. Game.—Grouse, blackcock, partridges, pheasants. Fruits.—Gooseberries, currants, plums, grapes, peaches, damsons, pears, quinces, nectarines. OCTOBER.—NOVEMBER.—DECEMBER. Fish.—Haddocks, oysters, lobsters, whitings, soles, crabs, plaice, cod. Meat.—Pork, mutton, beef, veal, house-lamb. Poultry.—Lark.s, chickens, geese, wild duck, turkey. Game.—Pheasant.s, hares, snipe, doe, venison, rabbits, woodcock. Vegetables.—Leeks, celery, onions, parsnips, sprouts, beetroot, tomatoes, vegetable marrow. Fruits.—Walnuts, grapes, figs, pears, apples, oranges, dates, crystallised preserves, dried fruits. Chris. Murray, 20 Ale.xandra Street, Dowanhill.Telegrams ' Grates, Edinburgh.’ Telephone No. 2018 Established 1818 Kitchen Range Makers by appointment to the Edinburgh School of Cookery. THE MOST UP-TO-DATE IRONMONGERY ESTABLISHMENT IN GREAT BRITAIN. JAMES GRAY & SON stove and Grate Makers to Her late Majesty Queen Victoria FURNISHING IRONMONGERS & ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS . . INCOKFORATING SMITHS & COMPANY Purveyors of Lamps and Oils to the King LAMP MANUFACTURERS & OILMEN KITCHEN FURNISHINGS, LAUNDRY FURNISHINGS, MANGLES, WRINGERS, and every Requisite for the COTTAGE OR MANSION. THE GOODS ARE OF SUPERIOR QUALITY MARKED IN PLAIN FIGURES LOWEST READY-MONEY PRICES. Inspection Cordially Invited. THE ‘SIMPLEX’ Kitchen Range A SPECIALITY. Estimates Furnished to include all Charges at Lowest Possible Cost Safe Makers, Locksmiths, Plumbers and Bellhangers, Gas and Hot Water Engineers. 89 GEORGE STREET, EDINBURGH N194 WHAT’S WHAT? WHAT SHALL I SERVE WITH— Roast Beef? Tomato sauce, grated horse radish. Roast Chicken ? Currant jelly, plum or grape catsup. Roast Lamb ? Mint sauce. Roast Goose ? Apple or cranberry sauce, grape or currant jelly, stewed gooseberries. Roast Mutton ? Currant jelly, stewed gooseberries. Pigeon Pie? Mushroom sauce. Roast Pork ? Apple or cranberry sauce. Roast Turkey? Celery or cranberry sauce, currant jelly. Roast Veal ? Tomato, onion, mushroom, or cranberry sauce. Roast Venison ? Cranberry sauce and currant jelly. Roast Wild Duck ? Cranberry sauce and currant jelly. Broiled Beefsteak ? Mushrooms, fried onions, pickled onions. Boiled Fowls ? Onion, bread, cream, lemon, or cranberry sauce. Boiled Mutton ? Onion or caper sauce. Boiled Turkey? Oyster sauce. Boiled or Baked Fish? White cream sauce or drawn butter sauce. Boiled or Baked Cod ? Egg sauce. Boiled Fresh Mackerel? Stewed gooseberries. Baked Fresh Salmon? Egg or cream sauce. Salmon Cutlets ? Currant jelly and lemon. Smelts ? Tartar sauce. Pickles are good with all meats. Spinach with veal. Green Peas with lamb. Green Peas or Stewed Tomatoes with fre.sh salmon. Lemon is nice with all fish.195 WHAT IS THE MEANING OF- Larding? Laying strips of,fat bacon over lean meat before baking. Basil ? An aromatic herb allied to thyme. To Bind? To mi.x an egg \\nth other dry ingredients. To bind it together. Tammy? A woollen bag or cloth for straining soups, sauces, etc. Braisee ? Meat cooked in a pan in the oven in a vegetable and herb gravy. Caramel ? Burnt sugar for colouring. Chaudfroid ? A cooked dish served cold, garnished with savoury jelly. Consomme ? Clear soup. Croutons? Neatly cut small thin pieces of fried or toa-sted bread for garnishing; also called Sippets. Drawn Butter ? Melted butter for sauce. Fennel? A plant used in fish sauce, because of its aromatic flavouring. Fritter? Something dipped in batter, or egged and crumbed, and fried. Liaison ? The thickening for soup, sauces, etc., formed by mixing yolks of eggs and milk or cream. Mask? To cover cooked meat with savoury jelly. Mignonette Pepper? White peppercorns coarsely ground. To break Flour? To moisten slowly into a liquid. Paner? To cover with egg and breadcrumbs. Passer? To strain through a tammy cloth. Purde ? A smooth pulpy liquid of meat, fish or vegetables. Saucer? 'I’o add sauce to a dish. Scald? T o bring nearly to the boil. Tobasco? An Indian .sauce. Panada ? A pa,ste made with flour and some liquid. Panuretta Crumbs? A kind (Trusk grated.196 By kind permission of Brown & Poi.SON, Paisley. EQUIVALENT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. FOR DRY MATERIALS. 16 ozs. = i lb. = 3 teacupfuls or 2 breakfastcupfuls closely filled, but not heaped. 8 ozs. = h lb. = I breakfastcupful, closely filled, but not heaped. 4 ozs. = -} lb. = I teacupful loosely filled. I oz. = 2 tablespoonfuls filled level, f oz. = I tablespoonful filled level. I oz. = I dessertspoonful filled level. FOR LIQUIDS. 4 gills =1 pint = about 3^ teacupfuls or nearly 2 breakfast cupfuls. I gill = I small teacupful. APPROXIMATE WEIGHTS IN COINAGE. 2 ozs. = I OS. in silver or 6 penny pieces. T oz. = 5s. in silver or 3 penny pieces. ^ oz. = 2S. 6d. in silver or i penny piece and a i penny piece. I oz. = IS. 3d. in silver or i threepenny piece and a | penny piece.pjeo J0|03trzBy kind permission of Brown &: Poi.SON, Paisley. 196 EQUIVALENT WEIGHTS AND MEASURES. FOR DRY MATERIALS 16 ozs. = I lb. = 3 teacupfuls or 2 breakfastcupfuls closely filled, but not heaped. 8 ozs. = I lb. = I breakfastcupful, closely filled, but not heaped. 4 ozs. = \ lb. = I teacupful loosely filled. I oz. = 2 tablespoonfuls filled level. A oz. = I tablespoonful filled level, i oz. = I dessertspoonful filled level. FOR LIQUIDS. 4 gills =1 pint = about 3^ teacupfuls or nearly 2 breakfast cupfuls. 1 gill = I small teacupful. APPROXIMATE WEIGHTS IN COINAGE. 2 ozs. = I OS. in silver or 6 penny pieces. T oz. = ss. in .silver or 3 penny pieces. ^ oz. = 2S. 6d. in silver or i penny piece and a i penny piece. ^ oz. = IS. 3d. in silver or i threepenny piece and a | penny piece.-i^i,'/' %‘S 'm^M iMm ' 1 H W ^4*'^Y