2 THE SKELETON. Tlit; Irreyulnr or Mixd huiies :nv such from their peculiar form, cannot be grouped under either of the preceding heads. Their structure is similar to that of other bones, OOnnsting Of a layer of compact tissue externally, and of sjiougy cancellous tissue within. The irregular hones are, the vertebra:, sacrum, coccyx, temporal, spin noil, t tit moid, malar, superior maxillary, inferior maxillary, palate, inferior turbinate I, and Ityoil. Surfaces of Bones. If the surface of any bone is examined, certain eminences and depressions are seen, to which descriptive anatomists have given the following names. A prominent process projecting from the surface uf a bine, which it has never Keen separate from, or moveable upon, i^ termed an ajmphysis from lin^nm.•, an txcres- Cencs); but if such process is developed as a separate piece frem the iv~l of the bone, to which it is afterwards joined, it is termed an epiphysis (frem iwifvtrtc, an accre- tion). These eminences and depressions are of two kinds : articular, and non-articular. Well-marked examples of articular eminences are found in the heads of the humerus and femur; ami of articular depressions, in the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and the acetabulum. Non-articular eminences are designated according to their form. Thus, a broad, rough, uneven elevation is called a tuff rosily; a small rough prominence, a tubercle; a sharp, slender, pointed eminence, a spiw:; a narrow rough elevation, running some way along the surface, a rulye^ or line. The non-articular depressions are also of very variable form, and are described as fossa;, grooves, furrows, fissures, notches, etc. Tins.- non-articular eminences and depressions serve to increase the extent of surface for the attachment of ligaments and muscles, and arc usually well marked in proportion to the intiscularitv of the subject. THE SPINE, The Spine is a flexuous and flexible column, formed of a series of bones railed I'* rt>/,ra. The Vertebra? are thirty-three in uumlier, exclusive of those which form the skull, and have received the names csreical, dorsal, lumbar, sacral, and coccyy.nl, affording to the position w inch they occupy ; seven U-ing found in the cervical region, twelve in the dorsal, live in the lumbar, five in the sacral, and four in the coccygeal. This number is sometimes increased by an additional vertebra in one region, or the uumlier may lie diminished in one region, the deficiency U-ing supplied by an additional vertebra in another. These observations do not apply to the cervical portion of the spine, the number of bones forming which is seldom increased or diminiahed. The Vertebra* in the upper three regions of the spine are separate through- out the whole of life; but tho.se found in the sacral and coccygeal regions are, in the adult, firmly unite I, so as to form two bom* — live entering into the forma- tion of the upper hone or sacrum, and four into the terminal bono of the spin* Of coccyx. Ci:nkkai. CiiAUAtTKits OF A VERTEBRA. Kach vertebra consists of two essential parts, an anterior solid segment or Imdv, and a pistcrior segment or arch. The arch is formed of two |x«dieles, and two lamina*, supporting seven processes ; viz. four articular, two ir.iiihVcrsc, and one Bpinous process. The I todies of the vertebra- are piled one upon the other, forming a stiong pillar, for the support of the cranium and tiuuk: the a rein's forming a hollow cylinder behind for hhe protection "I the spinal cord. The different vertebrae are connected together bv means of the articular processes, and the intervertebral