THE SKELETON. I IO that the bone be placed with its dorsal surface upwards, and its head towards the student, which is the reverse of the ordinary position. This facet will then mark the side to which the bone belongs. The metacarpal hone of the index finger is the longest, and its base the largest of the other four. Its carpal extremity is prolonged upwards and inwards. The dorsal and palmar surfaces of this extremity are rough, for the attachment of tendons and ligaments. It presents four articular facets; the first, at the end of the bone, is concave from side to side, convex from before backwards, and articu- lates with the trapezoid ; the second, on the radial side, is a flat quadrilateral facet, for the trapezium. The third and fourth are on the ulnar side of the extremity, and are separated by a ridge : the proximal one, long and narrow, articulates with the os magnum; the distal one, considerably broader and notched, with the third meta- carpal bone. The side to which this bone belongs is marked by the absence of the lateral facet on the outer (radial) side of its head, so that if the bone be placed with its base towards the student, and the palmar surface upwards, the side on which there is no lateral facet will be that to which it belongs. If the head of the bone be indis- tinctly marked, the base can be recognised, its ulnar or inner surface being marked by the two long narrow facets for the os magnum and third metacarpal, easily distinguishable from the single quadrangular facet on the radial side for the trape- zium, which will then mark the side to which the bone belongs. The metacarpal bone of the middle finger is a little smaller than the preceding; it presents a pyramidal eminence on the radial side of its base (dorsal aspect), which extends upwards behind the os magnum. The carpal articular facet is concave behind, flat and horizontal in front, and corresponds to the os magnum. On the radial side is a smooth concave facet, for articulation with the second metacarpal bone ; and on the ulnar side two small oval facets, for articulation with the fourth metacarpal. The side to which this bone belongs is easily recognised by the projecting angle on the lower radial corner of its base. With the palmar surface uppermost, and the base towards the student, this projection points towards the side to which the bone belongs. The metacarpal hone of the ring-finger is shorter and smaller than the preceding, and its base small and quadrilateral; the carpal surface of the base presenting two & facets, for articulation with the unciform and os magnum. On the radial side are two oval facets, for articulation with the third metacarpal bone; and on the ulnar side a single concave facet, for the fifth metacarpal. If this bone is placed with the base towards the student, and the palmar surface upwards, the radial side of the base, which has two facets for articulation with the third metacarpal bone, will be on the side to which it belongs. If, as sometimes happens in badly marked bones, one of these facets is indistinguishable, the side may be known by the greatly larger size in such cases of the facet for the fifth metacarpal bone, which is therefore situated on the side to which the bone does not belong. The metacarpal hone of the little finger may be distinguished by the concavo- convex form of its carpal surface, which articulates with the unciform • and by its , having only one lateral articular facet, which corresponds with the fourth meta- carpal bone. On its ulnar side is a prominent tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the Extensor carpi ulnaris. The dorsal surface of the shaft,is marked by an oblique ridge, which extends from near the ulnar side of the upper extremity to the radial side of the lower. The outer division of this surface serves for the at- tachment of the fourth Dorsal interosseous muscle; the inner division is smooth, and covered by the Extensor tendons of the little finger. If this bone is placed with its base towards the student, and its palmar surface upwards, the side of the head which has a lateral facet will be that to which the bone belongs. Articulations. Besides the phalangeal articulations, the first metacarpal bone