DEVELOPMENT OF THE VEINS. cxlvii coronary sinus, in which the great cardiac vein opens.* The right sinus of Cuvier, or superior vena cava, persists ; the transverse anastomosing branch between the two jugulars becomes the left innominate vein, and the end of the right jugular the right innominate. The venous circulation in the lower part of the embryo is at first carried on by the inferior cardinal veins, which return the blood from the Wolffian bodies, and receive branches corresponding to the intercostal, lumbar, and crural veins. Between the fourth and fifth week the inferior vena cava begins to appear in the form of a vessel, which passes upwards behind the liver and between the two Wolffian bodies. It anastomoses below with the two cardinal veins, and with the crural veins, which gradually come to open into it. Fig. XCVIII.—Diagram of the formation of the main systemic veins. A. Heart and venous system at the period when there are two venae cavae SUperiorcs, posterior view. i. Left superior cava. 2. Right superior cava. 3. Interior cava. 4. Left inferior cardinal. 5. Right inferior cardinal. 6. Eight jugular. 7. Anastomosing branch between the jugulars (left innominate). 8. Subclavian. 9. Internal jugular. 10. External jugular. 11. Middle obliterated portion of the posterior cardinal veins. 12. Newly formed posterior vertebral veins. 13. Anastomosis between the two vertebrals — trunk of small azygos. 14. Iliac veins, proceeding from anastomosis between the inferior cava and posterior cardinals. 15. Crural. 16. Hypogastric-originally the distal ends of the cardinals. B. Heart and permanent veins, posterior view. 1. Obliterated left superior cava. 6. Right innominate. 7. Left innominate. 8. Subclavian. 10. Jugular. 13. Trunk of the small azygos. 17. Coro- nary sinus receiving the coronary vein. 18. Superior intercostal. 19. Superior small azygos. 20. Inferior small azygos. The middle part of the cardinal veins disappears; their distal extremities persist as the hypogastric veins, which open along with the crural into the vena cava, forming the iliac and other veins of the lower extremities. The termination of each cardinal vein above, in the sinus of Cuvier, or superior cava, also persists. The central atrophied portion of the cardinal veins is replaced by two veins, one on either side, called posterior vertebral, which receive the intercostal and lumbar veins, and are soon united by an oblique * Mr. Marshall has pointed out that in the adult the remains of the obliterated left superior cava can he distinguished as a cord, or sometimes a small vein which passes down in front of the right auricle to the coronary sinus, and that the projection of this cord forms a fold of the serous pericardium over the root of the left lung, which from that circumstance he has named ' the vestup'al fold.' And he has figured a case in which the left superior vena cava remained pervious, forming an anastomosis between the united left subclavian and internal jugular veins, and the coronary sinus, the left brachio-cephalic being reduced to a small anastomosing branch. The abnormal vein ran along the vestigial fold, receiving the left superior intercostal vein (see the figure in Quain's Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 798). i 2