BRACHIAL PLEXUS. 54i The brachial plexus communicates with the cervical plexus by a branch from the fourth to the fifth nerve, and with the phrenic nerve by a branch from the fifth cervical, which joins that nerve on the Anterior scalenus muscle : the cervical and first dorsal nerves are also joined by filaments from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, close to their exit from the intervertebral foramina. Relations. In the neck, the brachial plexus lies at first between the Anterior and Middle scaleni muscles, and then above and to the outer side of the subclavian artery: it then passes behind the clavicle and Subclavius muscle, lying upon the first serration of the Serratits magnus, and the Subscapulars muscles. . In the axilla it is placed on the outer side of the first portion of the axillary artery; it surrounds the artery in the second part of its course, one cord lying upon the outer side of that vessel, one on the inner side, and one behind it; and at the lower part of the axillary space gives off its terminal branches to the upper extremity. Branches. The branches of the brachial plexus are arranged into two groups, viz., those given off above the clavicle, and those below that bone. Branches above the Clavicle. Communicating. Posterior thoracic. Muscular. Suprascapular. The communicating branch with the phrenic is derived from the fifth cervical nerve or from the loop between the fifth and sixth; it joins the phrenic on the Anterior scalenus muscle. The muscular branches supply the Longus colli, Scaleni, BJiomboidei, and Sub- clavius muscles. Those for the Scaleni and Longus colli arise from the lower cervical nerves at their exit from the intervertebral foramina. The rhomboid branch arises from the fifth cervical, pierces the Scalenus medius, and passes beneath the Levator anguli scapula?, which it occasionally supplies, to the Rhomboid muscles. The nerve to the Subclavius is a small filament, which arises from the fifth cervical at its point of junction with the sixth nerve; it descends in front of the subclavian artery to the Subclavius muscle, and is usually connected by a filament with the phrenic nerve. The posterior thoracic nerve (long thoracic, external respiratory of Bell) (fig. 299), supplies the Serratus magnus, and is remarkable for the length of its course. It sometimes arises by two roots, from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves immediately after their exit from the intervertebral foramina, but generally by three roots from the fifth, sixth, and seventh nerves. These unite in the substance of the Middle scalenus muscle, and, after emerging from it, the nerve passes down behind the brachial plexus and the axillary vessels, resting on the outer surface of the Serratus magnus. It extends along the side of the chest to the lower border of that muscle, and supplies it with numerous filaments. The suprascapular nerve (fig. 300) arises from the cord formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; passing obliquely outwards beneath the Trapezius, it enters the supraspinous fossa, through the notch in the upper border of the scapula; and, passing beneath the Supraspinatus muscle, curves in front of the spine of the scapula to the infraspinous fossa. In the supraspinous fossa it gives off two branches to the Supraspinatus muscle, and an articular filament to the shoulder-joint; and in the infraspinous fossa it gives off two branches to the Infraspinatus muscle, besides some filaments to the shoulder-joint and scapula. cially of Mr. Clement Lucas, have proved, however, that this description was not strictly correct, and the account given above substantially agrees with that of Mr. Lucas, as well as with tbatofHenle; the main point of difference being that the posterior division of the inner trunk, which, by the way, is an inconsiderable fasciculus in point of size, does not assist in forming the posterior cord of the plexus, but is entirely concerned in forming the musculo- spinal nerve. This I have found, in my investigation, to be the more constant arrangement of the two. The student mustj| not expect, however, to find in every instance an exact counterpart of the above description, since the plexus is subject in its formation to the greatest diversities, and there is no doubt that an ingenious dissector, by splitting the nerves, may make almost any complicated arrangement which may suit his fancy. (See Mr, Lucas's paper in the Guys Hospital Reports, 1875.)