OF THE ABDOMEN". 249 internal posterior branches of the sacral nerves. The Recti and Obliqui muscles are all supplied by the suboccipital and great occipital nerves. Actions. The Erector spinas, comprising the Sacro-lumbalis, with its accessory muscles, the Longissimus dorsi and Spinalis dorsi, serves, as its name implies, to maintain the spine in the erect posture ; it also serves to bend the trunk backwards when it is required to counterbalance the influence of any weight at the front of the body, as, for instance, when a heavy weight is suspended from the neck, or when there is any great abdominal development, as in pregnancy or dropsy; the peculiar gait under such circumstances depends upon the spine being drawn back- wards, by the counterbalancing action of the Erector spinas muscles. The muscles which form the continuation of the Erector spina? upwards steady the head and neck, and fix them in the upright position. If the Sacro-lumbalis and Longissimus dorsi of one side act they serve to draw down the chest and spine to the corre- sponding side. The Cervicalis ascendens, taking its fixed point from the cervical vertebras, elevates those ribs to which it is attached. The Multifidus spinas acts successively upon the different parts of the spine ; thus, the sacrum furnishes a fixed point from which the fasciculi of this muscle act upon the lumbar region ; these then become the fixed points for the fasciculi moving the dorsal region, and so on throughout the entire length of the spine ; it is by the successive contraction and relaxation of the separate fasciculi of this and other muscles, that the spine preserves the erect posture without the fatigue that would necessarily have been produced, had this position been maintained by the action of a single muscle. The Multifidus spinse, besides preserving the erect position of the spine, serves to rotate it, so that the front of the trunk is turned to the side opposite to that from which the muscle acts, this muscle being assisted in its action by the Obliquus externus abdominis. The Complexi, the analogues of the Multifidus spinas in the neck, draw the head directly backward; if one muscle acts, it draws the head to one side, and rotates it so that the face is turned to the opposite side. The Rectus capitis posticus minor and the Superior oblique draw the head backwards; and the latter, from the obliquity in the direction of its fibres, may turn the face to the opposite side. The Rectus capitis posticus major and the Obliquus inferior rotate the atlas, and, with it, the cranium round the odontoid process, and turn the face to the same side. -i^j,^, £y^< ^ ' -1'hJ^.j±_ Muscles op the Abdomen. tj ii. The Muscles in this region are, the Obliquus Externus.^ +U Rectus. Obliquus Internus. ~J> +. ^5 Pyramidalis. Transversalis. j^t, . 3 n Quadratus Lumborum. 3 Y _ Dissection (fig. 166). To dissect the ahdominal muscles, make a vertical incision from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes, a second incision from the umbilicus obliquely iqrwards and outwards to the outer surface of the chest, as high as the lower border of the fifth or sixth rib, and a third, commencing midway between the umbilicus and pubes, transversely out- wards to the anterior superior iliac spine, and along the crest of the ilium as far as its poste- rior third. Then reflect the three flaps included between these incisions from within out- wards, in the line of direction of the muscular fibres. If necessary, the abdominal muscles may be made tense by inflating the peritoneal cavity through the umbilicus. The External or Descending OMigue Muscle (fig. 167) is situated on the side and fore part of the abdomen; being the largest and the most superficial of the three flat muscles in this region. It is broad, thin, and irregularly quadrilateral, its muscular portion occupying the side, its aponeurosis the anterior wall of the abdomen. It arises, by eight fleshy digitations, from the external surface and lower borders of the eight inferior ribs; these digitations are arranged in an ob- lique line running downwards and backwards; the upper ones being attached close to the cartilages of the corresponding ribs; the lowest, to the apex of the cartilage of the last rib; the intermediate ones, to the ribs at some distance from their car- tilages. The five superior serrations increase in size from above downwards, and