OENEKAL ANATOMY. cxlii Development of the Nose.'—Two fossae ('olfactory fossa?) have been already spoken of, which are found below and in front of the ocular vesicles and the upper maxillary projection (fig. LXXXIX., 2, 3b They appear about the fourth week. Their borders become prominent, and the fossae deepen, except at the lower part, where they lead by a groove (olfactory groove) into the buccal cavity. This groove is bounded by the internal and external nasal process. As the superior maxillary projection increases, the olfactory groove is transformed into a deep canal, the rudiment of the two superior meatuses of the nose. As the palatine septum is formed, the buccal cavity is divided into two parts, the upper of which represents the inferior meatus of the nose, while the lower forms the mouth. The soft parts of the nose are formed from the coverings of the frontal projection, and of the olfactory fossae. The nose is perceptible about the end of the second month. The nostrils are at first closed by epithelium, but this disappears about the fifth month. The olfactory nerve, as above pointed out, is a prolongation, at first in the form of a hollow stalk, from the anterior cerebral vesicle. The development of the teeth is spoken of in the body of the work, p. 625. Development of the Shin, Glands, mul Soft Parts.—The epidermis pro- duced from the external, the true skin from the middle, blastodermic layer (fig. LXXYII.,19, 20). About the fifth week the epidermis present?- two layers, the deeper one corresponding to the rete mucosum. The subcutaneous fat forms about the fourth month, and the papillae of the true skin about the sixth. A considerable desquamation of epidermis takes place during foetal life, and this desquamated epidermis mixed with a sebaceous secretion constitutes the vernix caseosa, with which the skin is smeared during the last three months of foetal life. The nails are formed at the third month, and begin to project from the epidermis about the sixth. The hairs appear between the third and fourth month in the form of a depression of the deeper layer of the epithelium, which then becomes inverted by a projection from the papillary layer of the skin. The papilla grow s into the interior of the epithelial layer, and finally, about the fifth month, the foetal hairs (lanugo) appear first on the head and then on the other parts. These hairs drop off after birth, and give place to the permanent hairs. The sudoriferous and sebaceous glands are also formed from the epithelial layer about the fifth and sixth month respectively. The mammary gland is also formed from the deeper layer of the epithelium. Its first rudiment is seen about the third month, in the form of a small projection, from which others radiate, and which then give rise to the glandular follicles and ducts. The development of the former, however, remains imperfect, except in the adult female, and especially after pregnancy. In all these glands the vessels, and probably also the connective tissue, are furnished from the mesoblast. Development of the Limhn.— 'Yhv upper and lower limbs begin to project, as buds, from the anterior and posterior part of the embryo about the fourth week. These huds are formed by a project ion of the somatopleure covered by the epiblast. The division of the terminal portion of the bud