CXXX1V GENERAL ANATOMY. finally the true skin below the epiblast and the corium of the mucous membrane below the hypoblast. The mesoblastic elements (protovertebrae) on either side grow towards each other and coalesce, surrounding the notochord and the epiblastic elements out of which the medullary canal has been developed ( tig. LXXXYIL mc). From this portion of the somatomes the laminae of the vertebrae, the muscles and other parts in the vertebral grooves, and the skin of the back are formed. Development of the Cranium in general, and of the Face.—The fa tal cranium is developed from the primitive vertebral discs surrounding the upper extremity of the chorda dorsalis. membranous capsule (' investing mass of Rathke) which covers the end of the chorda dorsalis, forming the rudiment of the base of the skull, and moulds itself on the cerebral vesicles, so as to constitute the membrane in which the vault of the skull is developed. The membranous capsule presents at the base of the skull two thickenings (' lateral trabeculae' of Rathke) directed forwards, and enclosing an openhig (pituitary opening) which is partly closed by a thinner membrane—the middle trabe- cula. The upper end of the chorda dor- salis terminates in a pointed extremity (fig. LXXXVUI.), which extends about as far forwards as the body of the sphe- noid bone, where it becomes lost near the situation of the pituitary body. The membrane becomes replaced by cartilage in the part corresponding to the base of the skull and the trabeculae. A portion of this primitive cartilaginous, cranium becomes atrophied and disappears; a portion persists—forming the cartilages of the nose and those of the ar- ticulations ; the rest forms the cartilaginous nidus of the basilar part of the occipital, the greater part of the sphenoid, the petrous and mastoid portions of the temporal, the ethmoid bone, and the septum nasi. As the cerebral extremity of the foetus grows, it becomes twice bent forwards on its own axis (fig. XC). The upper or posterior curvature is called the cerebral; the lower or anterior, the frontal protuberance. From the anterior end of the chorda dorsalis four prolongations proceed on either side, and meet in the middle line (figs. LXWYL, LXXXIX., 4, 7. 8, 9). These are the pharyngeal arches, and in them, and in the frontal protuberance, certain bones are developed, which are called secondary bones, to distinguish them from those above enumerated, which are formed from the primitive cranium itself. Between the lirst pharyngeal arch and the frontal protuberance is situated the buccal depression, which after- These advance in the form of a Fig. LXXXIX.—Face of an embryo of 25 to 28 days. Magnified 15 limes. . Frontal prominence. 2, 3. Right and left olfactory fossie. 4. Inf.rior maxillary tubercles, united in the middle line. 5. Superior maxil- lary tubercles. 6. Mouth or fauces. 7. Second pharyngeal arch. 8. Third. 9. Fourth. 10. Pri- mitive ocular vesicle, u. Primitive auditury vesicle.