CONVOLUTIONS OF THE BRAIN. 485 The parietal lobe is bounded in front by the fissure of Rolando, behind by the parieto-occipital fissure, and below by the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, which separates it from the temporo-sphenoidal lobe. It presents four well-marked convolutions, more or less separated from each other by secondary fissures. Of these fissures, one, the intra-parietal, commences at the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and runs upwards, parallel to and behind the fissure of Rolando, sepa- rating a convolution, the ascending parietal, which thus lies between the fissure of Rolando and the intra-parietal fissure, and is parallel with the ascending frontal convolution. The intra-parietal fissure then turns backwards and joins the parieto- occipital fissure ; it runs parallel with the great longitudinal fissure, and separates a convolution, the superior parietal (postero-parietal lobule), which lies along the margin of the longitudinal fissure, and is continuous in front with the ascending- parietal convolution, and behind is limited by the parieto-occipital fissure. The remaining part of the parietal lobe, namely, that part between the intra-parietal fis- sure above and in front, and the horizontal fissure of Sylvius below, is divided into two convolutions by a short vertical fissure ascending from the fissure of Sylvius : the anterior of these is the supra-marginal convolution, and the posterior the angular convolution ; this latter convolution is joined with the temporo-sphenoidal and occi- pital lobes by small connecting convolutions. The occipital lobe is situated at the posterior extremity of the brain, and is separated above from the parietal lobe by the parieto-occipital fissure; below and in front it is united with the temporo-sphenoidal and parietal lobes by small con- necting convolutions. It is imperfectly divided, by two small transverse fissures, into three convolutions, named respectively the first, second, and third occipital con- volutions. The temporo-sphenoidal lobe is that portion of the hemisphere which is lodged in the middle fossa of the base of the skull. In front and above it is limited by the fissure of Sylvius; behind it is connected with the parietal and occipital lobes. It is divided into three convolutions by two transverse fissures; of these, the upper one runs parallel to the horizontal limb of the fissure of Sylvius, and is hence named the parallel fissure. The three convolutions formed by these two fissures are named respectively the first, second, and third temporo-sphenoidal convolutions in their numerical order from above downwards. The central lobe, or island of Eeil, is situated in the fissure of Sylvius at the base of the brain : being connected in front with the posterior extremity of the orbital lobe, and separated externally by a deep sulcus from the inferior frontal convolution, and from the lower ends of the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions. It is a triangular-shaped prominent cluster of about six convolutions, the gyri operti, so cilled from being covered in by the sides of the fissure. By the removal of these convolutions the extra-ventricular part of the corpus striatum would be reached. On the inner or median surface of the hemispheres the arrangement of the con- volutions is less complex ; they are generally well-defined, and some of them being of great length, there is not the same subdivision into smaller lobes, as on the ex- ternal surface (tig. 271). The fissures on the internal surface are five in number, and are named the caUoso-marginal, the parieto-occipital, the calcarine, the colla- teral, and the dentate. The calloso-marginal fissure is seen in front, commencing below the anterior extremity of the corpus callosum ; it, at first, runs forward and upwards parallel with the rostrum of the corpus callosum, and winding round the genu of that body it continues from before backwards, between the upper margin of the hemisphere and the corpus callosum to about midway between the anterior and posterior extremities of the brain, where it turns upwards to reach the upper margin of the inner surface of the hemisphere and joins the superior extremity of the fissure of Rolando, or terminates in its immediate vicinity. It separates the marginal convo- lution from the gyrus fornicatus. The parieto-occipital fissure (internal parieto-occipital) is the continuation of the fissure of the same name seen on the outer surface of the hemisphere. It extends