THE LIVER. 669 lobe. It is bounded, in front, by the transverse fissure ; on the right, by the fissure for the vena cava; and, on the left, by the fissure for the ductus venosus. The lobus caudatus, or tailed lobe, is a small elevation of the hepatic substance, extending obliquely outwards, from the base of the lobus Spigelii, to the under surface of the right lobe. It separates the right extremity of the transverse fissure from the commencement of the fissure for the inferior vena cava. Vessels.—The vessels connected with the liver are also five in number : they are the hepatic artery, the portal vein, the hepatic vein, the hepatic duct, and the lymphatics. The hepatic artery, portal vein, and hepatic duct, accompanied by numerous lymphatics and nerves, ascend to the transverse fissure, between the layers of the gastro-hepatic omentum ; the hepatic duct lying to the right, the hepatic artery to the left, and the portal vein behind the other two. They are enveloped in a loose areolar tissue, the capsule of Glisson, which accompanies the vessels in their course through the portal canals, in the interior of the organ. The hepatic veins convey the blood from the liver. They commence in the substance of the organ, and proceed through it to the deep fossa in its posterior border, where they terminate, by three large and several smaller branches, in the inferior vena cava. The hepatic veins have no cellular investment; consequently, their parietes are adherent to the walls of the canals through which they run ; so that, on a section of the organ, these veins remain widely open and solitary, and may be easily dis- tinguished from the branches of the portal vein, which are more or less collapsed, and always accompanied by an artery and duct. The lymphatics are large and numerous, consisting of a deep and superficial set. They have been already described. Nerves.—The nerves of the liver are derived from the hepatic plexus of the sympathetic, from the pneuniogastric nerves, especially the left, and from the light phrenic. Structure.—The substance of the liver is composed of lobules, held together by an extremely fine areolar tissue, and of the ramifications of the portal vein, hepatic duct, hepatic artery, hepatic veins, lymphatics, and nerves ; the whole being invested by a serous and a fibrous coat. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum, and invests the entire surface of the organ, excepting at the attachment of its various ligaments, and at the bottom of the different fissures, where it is deficient. It is intimately adherent to the fibrous coat. The fibrous coat lies beneath the serous investment, and covers the entire surface of the organ. It is difficult of demonstration, excepting where the serous coat is deficient. At the transverse fissure it is continuous with the capsule of Glisson; and, on the surface of the organ, with the areolar tissue separating the lobules. The lobules form the chief mass of the hepatic substance; they may be seen either on the surface of the organ, or by making a, section through the gland. They are small granular bodies, about the size of a millet-seed, measuring from one- twentieth to one-tenth of an inch in diameter. In the human subject their outline is very irregular ; but in some of the lower animals (for example, the pig) they are well-defined, and, when divided transversely, have a polygonal outline. If divided longitudinally they are more or less foliated or oblong. The bases of the lobules are clustered round the smallest radicles (sublobidar) of the hepatic veins, to which each is connected by means of a small branch which issues from the centre of the lobule (intralobular). The remaining part of the surface of each lobule is imperfectly isolated from the surrounding lobules by a thin stratum of areolar tissue, in which is contained a plexus of vessels (the interlobular plexus) and ducts. In some animals, as the pig, the lobules are completely isolated one from another by this interlobular connective tissue. If one of the hepatic veins be laid open, the bases of the lobules may be seen