NERVOUS SYSTEM. 49° the crura cerebri on either side. It forms the back part of the floor of the third ventricle, and is perforated by numerous small orifices for the passage of blood-vessels to the optic thalami. The crura cerebri {peduncles of the cerebrum) are two thick cylindrical bundles of white matter, which emerge from the anterior border of the pons, and diverge as they pass forwards and outwards to enter the under part of either hemisphere. Each crus is about three-quarters of an inch in length, and somewhat broader in front than behind. They are marked upon their surface with longitudinal striae, and each is crossed, just before entering the hemisphere, by a flattened white band, the optic tract, which is adherent by its upper border to the peduncle. In the interior of the crura is contained a mass of dark grey matter, called locus niger. The third nerve may be seen emerging from the inner side of either crus, and the fourth nerve winding round its outer side from above. Each crus consists of a superficial and deep layer of longitudinal white fibres, continued upwards from the pons : these layers are separated from each other by the locus niger. The superficial longitudinal fibres are continued upwards, from the anterior pyramids to the cerebrum. They consist of coarse fasciculi, which form the free part of the crus, and have received the name of the fasciculated portion or crusta of the peduncle (fig. 267). The deep longitudinal fibres are continued upwards, in two layers, one from the lateral and posterior columns of the medulla and from the olivary fasciculus, these fibres consisting of some derived from the same, and others from the opposite lateral tract of the medulla. More deeply, are finer fibres, mixed with grey matter, derived from the cerebellum, blended with the former. The cerebral surface of the crus cerebri is formed of these fibres, and is named the tegmentum. The locus niger is a mass of grey matter, situated between the superficial and deep layers of fibres above described. It is placed nearer the inner than the outer side of the crus. The posterior lobes of the cerebrum are concealed from view by the upper surface of the cerebellum, and pons Varolii. When these parts are removed, the two hemispheres are seen to be separated by the great longitudinal fissure, this fissure being interrupted by the posterior rounded border of the corpus callosum. General Arrangement of the Parts composing the Cerebrum. As the peduncles of the cerebrum enter the hemispheres, they diverge from one another, so as to leave an interval between them, the interpeduncular space. As they ascend, the component fibres of each pass through two large masses of grey matter, the ganglia of the brain, called the thalamus opAicus and corpus striatum, which pr oject as rounded eminences from the upper and inner side of each peduncle. The hemispheres are connected together, above these masses, by the great transverse commissure, the corpus callosum, and the interval left between its under surface, the upper surface of the ganglia, and the parts closing the interpeduncular space, forms the general ventricular cavity. The upper part of this cavity is subdivided into -two by a vertical septum, the septum lucidum; and thus the two lateral ven- tricles are formed. The lower part of the cavity forms the third ventricle, which communicates with the lateral ventricles above, and with the fourth ventricle behind. The fifth ventricle is the interval left between the two layers composing the septum lucidum. Interior of the Cerebrum. If the upper part of either hemisphere is removed with a scalpel, about half an inch above the level of the corpus callosum, its internal white matter will be ex- posed. It is an oval-shaped centre, of white substance, surrounded on all sides by a narrow convoluted margin of grey matter which presents an equal thickness in