547 ULNAE. beneath the nail. The digital nerves, as they run along the fingers, are placed super- ficial to the digital arteries. The Ulnar Nerve (fig. 299) is placed along the inner or ulnar side of the upper limb, and is distributed to the muscles and integument of the fore-arm and hand. It is smaller than the median, behind which it is placed, diverging from it in its course down the arm. It arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, in common with the inner head of the median and the internal cutaneous nerve. At its commence- ment, it lies at the inner side of the axillary artery, and holds the same relation with the brachial artery to the middle of the arm. From this point it runs obliquely across the internal head of the Triceps, pierces the internal intermuscular septum, and descends to the groove between the internal condyle and the olecranon, accompanied by the inferior profunda artery. At the elbow, it rests upon the back of the inner condyle, and passes into the fore-arm between the two heads of the Flexor carpi ulnaris. In the fore-arm, it descends in a perfectly straight course along its ulnar side, lying upon the Flexor profundus digitorum, its upper half being covered by the Flexor carpi ulnaris, its lower half lying on the outer side of the muscle, covered by the integument and fascia. The ulnar artery, in the upper third of its course, is separated from the ulnar nerve by a considerable interval; but in the rest of its extent, the nerve lies to its inner side. At the wrist, the ulnar nerve crosses the annular ligament on the outer side of the pisiform bone, a little behind the ulnar artery, and immediately beyond this bone divides into two branches, superficial and deep palmar. The branches of the ulnar nerve are :— /Articular (elbow) Muscular. In the fore-arm. ■< Cutaneous. I Dorsal cutaneous ' A rticular (wrist). The articular branches distributed to the elbow-joint consist of several small filaments. They arise from the nerve as it lies in the groove between the inner con- dyle and olecranon. The muscular branches are two in number, one supplying the Flexor carpi ulnaris, the other, the inner half of the Flexor profundus digitorum. They arise from the trunk of the nerve near the elbow. The cutaneous branch arises from the ulnar nerve about the middle of the fore- arm, and divides into two branches. The one branch (frequently absent) pierces the deep fascia near the wrist, and is distributed to the integument, communicating with a branch of the internal cutaneous nerve. The second branch (palmar cutaneous) lies- on the ulnar artery, which it accom- panies to the hand, some filaments entwining round the vessel; it ends in the integument of the palm, communicating with branches of the median nerve. The dorsal cutaneous branch arises about two inches above the wrist; it passes backwards beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, perforates the deep fascia, and running along the ulnar side of the back of the wrist and hand, supplies the inner side of the little finger, and the adjoining sides of the little and ring fingers; it communicates with the posterior branch of the internal cutaneous nerve, and sends a communicating filament to that branch of the radial nerve which supplies the adjoining sides of the middle and ring fingers. The articular filaments to the wrist are also supplied by the ulnar nerve. The superficial palmar branch supplies the Palmaris brevis, and the integument on the inner side of the hand, and terminates in two digital branches, which are distributed, one to the ulnar side of the little finger, the other to the adjoining sides of the little and ring fingers, the latter communicating with a branch from the median. The digital branches are distributed to the fingers in the same manner as the digital branches of the median already described: N N 2 T „ , , f Superficial palmar. In the hand. \ 1 - , x \ Deep palmar.