GENERAL A SA TOM Y. xl gen. The relative quantity is roughly stated thus :—Carbonic acid about two-thirds of the whole quantity of gas, oxygen rather less than one-third, nitrogen below one-tenth (Huxley).* The nitrogen is unimportant. It (or at least the greater part of it) is merely absorbed from the atmosphere under the pressure to which the blood is exposed, and can therefore be mechanically removed, as can also a portion of the oxygen and carbonic acid ; but the greater portion of the oxygen is in loose chemical combina- tion with the haemoglobin of the blood-corpuscles, and the greater part of the carbonic acid seems to be in stable chemical combination with the salts of the serum, though a certain proportion is also combined loosely with the blood-globules. The experiments by which these facts are proved will be found in the physiological treatises. The fluid part of the blood, the liquor sanguinis, or plasma, is again composed of a permanently fluid portion—the serum—and of fibrin-factors, which unite spontaneously when out of the body, and by their union form fibrin. The fibrin can be separated from blood, after it has been drawn, by whipping it with twigs, to which the fibrin, as it coagulates, adheres. The fibrin does not exist as such in the blood, but is formed during coagulation by the union of two substances (fibrino-plastin and fibrinogen) which exist separately in the blood; the union being probably brought about by the agency of a third body, called a fibrin-ferment. For the experiments which prove this fact and for the account of the substances themselves, as well as the properties of the blood and the phenomena of its coagulation, I must again refer to the treatises on Physiology. The liquor sanguinis may be obtained free from the red corpuscles by filtration in animals whose blood-globules are sufficiently large, or in mammalia by exposing the blood to a freezing temperature till the corpuscles have subsided. By this pro- cess, or hy removing a portion of the clear liquor which is found above the buffy coat of inflammatory blood just after the latter has formed, the plasma may be obtained, and will then separate by coagulation into a colourless clot of fibrin and a saline fluid. The fibrin clot consists of interlacing structureless strings, which contain in their meshes some white corpuscles accidentally enclosed in them. The fluid left after the coagulation of the fibrin, which is the serum of the blood properly so called, is yellowish, and contains so much albumen that it solidifies almost completely on being heated. It is alkaline, from the presence of free soda and carbonate of soda. The chemical composition of the blood is complex, as might be anticipated of a fluid from which all the various tissues of the body are to be formed ; and it must of course vary in various parts of the circulation. The following seems to be as accurate an analysis as possible. It is quoted in Carpenter's ' Physiology,' by Power, from M. Gorrup-Bozanez, who procured two samples of the same person's blood, and had them analysed by himself and three other competent chemists. The separate analyses are given, but the * The quantity of gases contained varies, of course, with a great number of different con- ditions, and especially according as the blood is arterial or venous. Hermann states that the proportion of oxygen varies from 16-9 vols, per cent, in arterial to 5"9 per cent, iu veuous Mood, that arterial blood contains on an average about 30 vols, per cent., and venous about 35 per cent., of carbonic acid: and this author places the proportion of nitrogen as low as from 1 t o 2 vols, per cent.