477 MEDULLA OBLONGATA. one on each side of the posterior median fissure, and separated from the restiform bodies by a narrow groove. They consist entirely of white fibres, and are continuous with the posterior median columns of the spinal cord. These bodies lie, at first, in close contact. Opposite the apex of the fourth ventricle they form an enlargement (processus clavatus), and then, diverging, are lost in the corresponding restiform body. The upper part of the posterior pyramids form the lateral boundaries of the calamus scriptorius. The posterior surface of the medulla oblongata forms part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. It is of a triangular form, bounded on each side by the diverging posterior pyramids, and is that part of the ventricle which, from its resemblance to the point of a pen, is called the calamus scriptorius. The divergence of the posterior pyramids and restiform bodies opens to view the grey matter of the medulla, which is con- tinuous, below, with the grey commissure of the cord. In the middle line is seen a longitudinal furrow, continuous with the posterior median fissure of the cord, ter- minating, below, at the point of the ventricle, in a cul-de-sac, the ventricle of Arantius, which descends into the medulla for a slight extent. It is the remains of a 264.- -Posterior Surface of the Medulla Oblongata. 265.- -Transverse Section of Medulla Oblongata. FusciCtllc Teretes \QlivartjJ3o<li) A.ntrrior Pyramid! canal, which, in the foetus, extends throughout the entire length of the cord. Structure. The columns of the cord are directly continuous with those of the medulla oblongata, below ; but, higher up, both the white and grey constituents are rearranged before they are continued upwards to the cerebrum and cere- bellum. The anterior pyramid is composed of fibres derived from the anterior column of the cord of its own side, and from the lateral column of the opposite half of the cord, and is continued upwards into the cerebrum and cerebellum. The cerebellar fibres form a superficial and deep layer, which pass beneath the olivary body to the restiform body, and spread out into the structure of the cerebellum. A deeper fasciculus encloses the olivary body, and, receiving fibres from it, enters the pons as the olivary fasciculus or fillet; but the chief mass of fibres from the pyramid, the cerebral fibres, enter the pons in their passage upwards to the cerebrum. The anterior pyramids contain no grey matter. The lateral tract is continuous, below, with the lateral column of the cord. Its fibres pass in three different directions. The most external join the restiform body, and pass to the cerebellum. The internal, more numerous, pass forwards, pushing aside the fibres of the anterior column, and form part of the opposite anterior pyramid. The middle fibres ascend, beneath the olivary body to the cerebrum, passing along the back of the pons, and form, together with fibi'es from the restiform body and posterior pyramids, the fasciculi teretes, in the floor of the fourth ventricle. Olivary body. If a transverse section is made through either olivary body, it will be found to consist of a small ganglionic mass, deeply imbedded in the medulla, partly appearing on the surface as a smooth, olive-shaped eminence (fig. 265). It consists, externally, of white substance ; and, internally, of a grey nucleus, the corpus