540 SPINAL NERVES. sixth cervical unite together soon after their exit from the inter vertebral foramina to form a common trunk. The eight cervical and first dorsal also unite to form one trunk. So that the nerves forming the plexus, as they lie on the Scalenus medius, external to the outer border of the Scalenus anticus, are blended into three trunks: an outer one formed by the j unction of the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; a middle one, consisting of the seventh cervical nerve; and an inner one formed by the junction of the eight cervical and first dorsal nerves. As they pass beneath the clavicle, each of these three trunks divides into two branches, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior divisions of the outer and middle trunks then unite to form a common cord, which is situated on the outer side of the middle part of the axillary artery, and is called the outer cord of the brachial plexus. The anterior division of the inner trunk, formed by the union of the eight cervical and 296.—Plan of the Brachial Plexus. first dorsal, courses down on the inner side of the axillary artery in the middle of the axilla, and forms the inner cord of the brachial plexus. The posterior cords of the outer trunk (formed by the junction of the fifth and sixth nerves) and of the middle trunk (the seventh nerve) unite together to form the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, which is situated behind the second portion of the axillary artery. Prom this posterior trunk are given off the two lower subscapular nerves j the upper subscapular nerve being given off from the posterior division of the outer trunk prior to its junction with the posterior division of the middle trunk. The posterior trunk divides into the circumflex and musculo-spiral nerves; and the latter of these two nerves is subsequently joined by the posterior division of the inner trunk, formed by the union of the eight cervical and first dorsal.* * It will he noticed that this description varies from that in previous editions, which was the formerly-accepted description of the plexus. The investigations of anatomists, and espe-