PHALANGES. H3 Articulations. Each bone articulates with the tarsal bones by one extremity, and by the other with the first row of phalanges. The number of tarsal bones with which each metatarsal articulates, is one for the first, three for the second, one for the third, two for the fourth, and one for the fifth. Attachment of Muscles. To the first metatarsal bone, three : part of the Tibialis anticus, the Peroneus longus, and First dorsal interosseous. To the second, three : the Adductor pollicis, and First and Second dorsal interosseous. To the third, five : the Adductor pollicis, Second and Third dorsal, and First plantar inter- osseous, and a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus. To the fourth, five : the Adductor pollicis, Third and fourth dorsal, and Second plantar interosseous, (and a slip from the tendon of the Tibialis posticus)) To the fifth, six : the Peroneus brevis, Peroneus tertius, Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Transversus pedis, Fourth dorsal, and Third plantar interosseous. Phalanges. The Phalanges of the foot, both in number and general arrangement, resemble those in the hand; there being two in the great toe, and three in each of the other toes. The phalanges of the first roiv resemble closely those of the hand. The shaft is compressed from side to side, convex aboye, concave below. The ])osterior extremity is concave ; and the anterior extremity presents a trochlear surface, for articulation with the second phalanges. The phalanges of the second row are remarkably small and short, but rather broader than those of the first row. The ungual phalanges, in form, resemble those of the fingers ; but they are smaller, flattened from above downwards, presenting a broad base for articulation with the second row, and an expanded extremity for the support of the nail and end of the toe. Articulation. The first row, with the metatarsal bones, and second phalanges ; the second of the great toe, with the first phalanx, and of the other toes, with the first and third phalanges ; the third with the second row. Attachment of Muscl's. To the first phalanges. Great toe : innermost tendon of Extensor brevis digitorum, Abductor pollicis, Adductor pollicis, Flexor brevis pollicis, Transversus pedis. Second toe: First and Second dorsal interosseous. Third toe : Third dorsal and First plantar interosseous. Fourth toe : Fourth dorsal and Second plantar interosseous. Fifth toe : Flexor brevis minimi digiti, Abductor minimi digiti, and Third plantar interosseous.—Second phalanges. Great toe: Extensor longus pollicis, Flexor longus pollicis. Other toes : Flexor brevis digi- torum, one slip of the common tendon of the Extensor longus and brevis digitorum.— Third phalanges : two slips from the common tendon of the Extensor longus and Extensor brevis digitorum, and the Flexor longus digitorum. The phalanges of the little toe do not get a slip from the Extensor brevis digitorum. Development of the Foot. (Fig. 115.) The Tarsal bones are each developed by a single centre, excepting the os calcis, which has an epiphysis for its posterior extremity. The centres make their appear- ance in the following order : os calcis, at the sixth month of foetal life; astragalus, about the seventh month; cuboid, at the ninth month; external cuneiform, during the first year; internal cuneiform in the third year ; middle cuneiform and scaphoid in the fourth year. The epiphysis for the posterior tuberosity of the os calcis appears at the tenth year, and unites with the rest of the bone soon after puberty. The Metatarsal bones are each developed by two centres : one for the shaft, and one for the digital extremity, in the four outer metatarsal; one for the shaft, and one for the base, in the metatarsal bone of the great toe. Ossification commences in the centre of the shaft about the seventh week, and extends towards either ex-