Growth and Development of the Body. THE whole body is developed out of the ovum (fig. LXXII.) when fertilised by the spermatozoa. The ovum is merely a simple nucleated cell, or collection of protoplasm, and the spermatozoa disappear when they have accomplished their mysterious function. All the complicated changes by which the various intricate organs of the whole body are formed from one simple cell may be reduced to two general processes—viz., the segmenta- tion or cleavage of cells, and their differ- TVVTT „ entiation. The former process consists riG. LXXII.—Ovum of the sow. . ... in the splitting of the nucleus and its nZX^3$W investing cell-wall, whereby the original '■P*f cell is represented by two. The differen- tiation of cells is a term used to describe that unknown power or tendency im- pressed on cells which, to all methods of examination now known, seem absolutely identical, whereby they grow into different forms ; so that (to take the first instance which occurs in the growth of the embryo) the indifferent cells of the vascular area are differentiated, some of them into blood-globules, others into the solid tissue which forms the blood-vessels. The extreme complexity of the process of development renders it at all times difficult to describe it intelligibly, and still more so in a work like this, where adequate space and illustration can hardly be afforded, having respect to the main purpose of the book. I can only hope to render the leading features of the process tolerably plain, and must refer the reader who wishes to follow the various changes more minutely to the special j works on the subject, and especially the work of Foster and Balfour. Many of the statements which are accepted in human embryology are made only on the strength of experiments on lower animals, direct obser- | vation in the human subject being impossible. The ovum is a small spheroidal body situated in immature Graafian vesicles near their centre, but in the mature ones in contact with the membrana granulosa * at that part of the vesicle which projects from the I surface of the ovary. The cells of the membrana granulosa are accumu- ! lated round the ovum in greater number than at any other part of the I vesicle, forming a kind of granular zone, the discus loroligerus. The human ovum (fig. LXXIII.) is extremely minute, measuring from ! 7, iyyth to y-'7-0th of an inch in diameter. It is a cell, consisting externally j of a transparent envelope, the zona pellucida, or vitelline membrane. Within * !Sce the description of the ovary in the body of the work.