PHARYNGEAL REGION. 231 and mouth should then be stuffed with tow, in order to distend its cavity and render the muscles teuse and easier of dissection. The Inferior Constrictor, the most superficial and thickest of the three con- strictors, arises from the side of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages. To the cricoid cartilage it is attached 160.—Muscles of the Pharynx. External View. in the interval between the crico-thyroid muscle, in front, and the articular facet for the thyroid cartilage behind. To- the thyroid cartilage it is attached to the oblique line on the side of the great ala, the cartilaginous surface behind it, nearly as far as its posterior border, and to the inferior cornu. From these attachments, the fibres spread backwards and inwards, to be inserted into the fibrous raphe in the posterior median line of the pharynx. The inferior fibres are horizontal, and continuous with the fibres of the oesophagus; the rest as- cend, increasing in obliquity, and overlap the Middle con- strictor. The superior laryn- geal nerve and artery pass near the upper border, and the inferior, or recurrent laryngeal, beneath the lower border of this muscle, previous to their entering the larynx. Relations. It is covered by a dense cellular membrane which surrounds the entire pharynx. Behind, it is in relation with the vertebral column and the Longus colli muscle; laterally, with the thyroid gland, the common carotid artery, and the Sterno-thyroid muscle; by its internal surface, with the Middle constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus. Palato-pharyngeus, the pharyngeal aponeurosis, and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. The Middle Constrictor is a flattened, fan-shaped muscle, smaller than the pre- ceding, and situated on a plane anterior to it. It arises from the whole length of the greater cornu of the hyoid bone, from the lesser cornu, and from the stylo- hyoid ligament. The fibres diverge from their origin : the lower ones descending beneath the Inferior constrictor, the middle fibres passing transversely, and the upper fibres ascending and overlapping the Superior constrictor. The muscle is inserted into the posterior median fibrous raphe, blending in the middle line with that of the opposite side. Relations. This muscle is separated from the Superior constrictor by the glosso- pharyngeal nerve and the Stylo-pharyngeus muscle ; and from the Inferior con- strictor, by the superior laryngeal nerve. Behind, it lies on the vertebral column, the Longus colli, and the Rectus anticus major. On each side it is in relation with the carotid vessels, the pharyngeal plexus, and some lymphatic glands. Near its origin, it is covered by the Hyo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual vessels. It lies upon the Superior constrictor, the Stylo-pharyngeus, the Palato-pharyngeus, the pharyngeal aponeurosis, and the mucous membrane. The Sjvperior Constrictor is a quadrilateral muscle, thinner and paler than the other constrictors, and situated at the upper part of the pharynx. It arises from