\ 0- ^ \% -i Vr 4- 1. I I 2- 142 THE SKELETON. - presents a terminal rounded articular surface, oblong from above downwards, and extending further backwards below than above. Its sides are flattened, and present a depression, surmounted by a tubercle, for ligamentous attachment. Its under surface is grooved in the middle line for the passage of the Flexor tendon and marked on each side by an articular eminence continuous with the terminal articular surface. Peculiar characters. The First is remarkable for its great size, but is the shortest of all the metatarsal bones. The shaft is strong, and of well-marked prismoid form. The posterior extremity presents no lateral articular facets; its terminal articular surface is of large size, kidney-shaped, and its circumference grooved for the tarso-metatarsal ligaments; its inferior angle presents a rough oval pro- minence for the insertion of the tendon of the Peroneus longus. The head is of large sizg; on its plantar surface are two grooved facets, over which glide sesamoid bones; the facets are separated by a smooth elevated ridge. This bone is known by the single kidney-shaped articular surface on its base; the deeply grooved appearance of the plantar surface of its head; and its great thickness, relatively to its length. When it is placed in its natural position, the concave border of the kidney-shaped articular surface on its base points to the side to which the bone belongs. The Second is the longest and largest of the remaining metatarsal bones, being prolonged backwards into the recess formed between the three cuneiform bones. Its tarsal extremity is broad above, narrow and rough below. It presents four arti- cular surfaces : one behind, of a triangular form, for articulation with the mid- dle cuneiform ; one at the upper part of its internal lateral surface, for articulation with the interna] cuneiform ; and two on its external lateral surface, a superior and an inferior, separated by a rough depression. Each of the latter articular surfaces is divided by a vertical ridge into two parts ; the anterior segment of each facet articulates with the third metatarsal; the two posterior (sometimes continuous) with the external cuneiform. The facets on the tarsal extremity of the second metatarsal bone serve at once to distinguish it from the rest and to indicate the foot to which it belongs; there being one facet at the upper angle of the internal surface, and two facets, each subdivided into two parts, on the external surface, pointing to the side to which the bone belongs. The fact that the two posterior subdivisions of these external facets sometimes run into one should not be forgotten, The Third articulates behind, by means of a triangular smooth surface, with the external cuneiform; on its inner side, by two facets, with the second metatarsal; and on its outer side, by a single facet, with the ti^ed metatarsal. The latter facet is of circular form, and situated at the upper angle of the base. The third metatarsal is known by its having at its tarsal end two undivided facets on the inner side, and a single facet on. the outer. This distinguishes it from the second metatarsal, in which the two facets, found on one side of its tarsal end, are each subdivided into two. The .single facet (when the bone is put in its natural position) is on the side to which the bone belongs. The Fourth is smaller in size than the preceding; its tarsal extremity presents a terminal quadrilateral surface, for articulation with the cuboid; a smooth facet on the inner side, divided by a ridge into an anterior portion for articulation with the third metatarsal, and a posterior portion for articulation with the external cunei- form ; on the outer side a single facet, for articulation with the fifth metatarsal. The fourth metatarsal is known by its having a single facet, on either side of the tarsal extremity, that on the inner side being divided into two parts. If this subdivision be not recognisable, the fact that its tarsal end is bent somewhat out- wards will indicate the side to which it belongs, as Mr. Holden points out. The Fifth is recognised by the tubercular eminence on the outer side of its base. It articulates behind, by a triangular surface cut obliquely from without inwards, with the cuboid : and internally, with the four metatarsal. The projection on the outer side of this bone at its tarsal end at once distin- guishes it from the others, and points to the side to which it belongs.