690 THE THORAX. anterior, the other to the posterior wall; the}- are of large size, and terminate by free rounded extremities, from which the chordae tendineae arise. The Endocardium is a thin membrane which lines the internal surface of the heart; it assists in forming the valves by its reduplications, and is continuous with the lining membrane of the great blood-vessels. It is a smooth, transparent mem- brane, giving to the inner surface of the heart its glistening appearance. It is more opaque on the left than on the right side of the heart, thicker in the auricles than in the ventricles, and thickest in the left auricle. It is thin on the musculi pectinati, and on the columnas camera; but thicker on the smooth part of the auricular and ventricular walls, and on the tips of the musculi papillaris. Structure.—The heart consists of muscular fibres, and of fibrous rings which serve for their attachment. The fibrous rings surround the auriculo-ventricular and arterial orifices : they are stronger upon the left than on the right side of the heart. The auriculo-ventricular rings serve for the attachment of the muscular fibres of the auricles and ventricles, and also for the mitral and tricuspid valves; the ring on the left side is closely con- nected, by its right margin, with the aortic arterial ring. Between these and the right auriculo-ventricular ring is a fibro-cartilaginous mass ; and in some of the larger animals, as the ox and elephant, a nodule of bone. The fibrous rings surrounding the arterial orifices serve for the attachment of the great vessels and semilunar valves. Each ring receives, by its ventricular mar- gin, the attachment of the muscular fibres of the ventricles ; its opposite margin pre- sents three deep semicircular notches, within which the middle coat of the artery (which presents three convex semicircular segments) is firmly fixed; the attachment of the artery to its fibrous ring being strengthened by the thin cellular coat and serous membrane externally, and by the endocardium within. It is opposite the margins of these semicircular notches, in the arterial rings, that the endocardium, by its reduplication, forms the semilunar valves, the fibrous structure of the ring being continued into each of the segments of the valve at this part. The middle coat of the artery in this situation is thin, and the sides of the vessel are dilated to form the sinuses of Valsalva. The muscular structure of the heart consists of bands of fibres, which present an exceedingly intricate interlacement. They arc of a deep red colour, and marked with transverse striae (p. lxviii). The muscular fibres of the heart admit of a subdivision into two kinds, those of the auricles and those of the ventricles, which are quite independent of one another. Fibres of the Auricles.—These are disposed in two layers—a superficial layer common to both cavities, and a deep layer proper to each. The superficial fibres are more distinct on the anterior surface of the auricles, across the bases of which they run in a transverse direction, forming a thin but incomplete layer. Some of these fibres pass into the septum auricularum. The internal or deep fibres proper to each auricle consist of two sets, looped and annular fibres. The looped fibres pass upwards over each auricle, being attached by two extremities to the coiresponding auriculo- ventricular rings, in front and behind. The annular fibres surround the whole extent of the appendices auricularum, and are continued upon the walls of the venae cava? and coronary sinus on the right side, and upon the pulmonary veins on the left side, at their connection with the heart. In the appendices they interlace with the longitudinal fibres. T\w fibres of the ventricles are arranged in numerous layers, of which Pettigrew * describes seven. Other anatomists have regarded them differently, and indeed there must be some uncertainty on, the subject, for the layers are not independent of each other, but their fibres are interlaced to a considerable extent. And it has been observed that as Pettigrew's observations were made chiefly on the hearts of the lower animals, they may not apply exactly to man. Yet as this description has been received by some of the best anatomists, and is supported by a large series of preparations, it seems best to adopt it. * Phil Trans, 1864.