MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. tion of the duct of the vesicula serainalis -with the vas deferens. Each duct is about three-quarters of an inch in length; it commences at the base of the prostate, and runs forwards and upwards in a canal in its substance, and along the side of the sinus pocularis, to terminate by a separate slit-like orifice close to or just within the margins of the sinus. The ducts diminish in size, and converge towards their termination. Structure.—The vesicula? seminales are composed of three coats : an external or fibro-cellular, derived from the recto-vesical fascia; a middle or muscular coat, which is thinner than in the vas deferens : the muscular fibres are arranged in two layers, superficial or transverse, and deep or longitudinal, which are placed chiefly on the sides of the vesiculas, and are continuous with the muscular fibres of the urethra, along the ejaculatory ducts; and an internal or mucous coat, which is pale, of a whitish-brown colour, and presents a delicate reticular structure, like that seen in the gall-bladder, but the meshes are finer. The epithelium is columnar. The coats of the ejaculatory ducts are extremely thin, the outer fibrous layer being almost entirely lost after their entrance into the prostate, a thin layer of muscular fibres and the mucous membrane forming the only constituents of the tubes. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the vesiculee seminales are derived from the inferior vesical and middle hemorrhoidal. The veins and lymphatics accompany the arteries. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. The Semen is a thick, whitish fluid, having a peculiar odour. It consists of a fluid, the liquor seminis, and solid particles, the seminal granules, and spermatozoa. The liquor seminis is transparent, colourless, and of an albuminous composition, containing particles of squamous and columnar epithelium, with oil-globules and granular matter floating in it, besides the above-mentioned solid elements. The seminal granules are round finely-granular corpuscles, measuring ^'^th of an inch in diameter. The spermatozoa, or spermatic filaments, are the essential agents in producing fecundation. They are minute elongated particles, consisting of a small flattened oval extremity or body, and a long slender caudal filament. A small circular spot is observed in the centre of the body, and at its point of connection with the tail there is frequently seen a projecting rim or collar. The movements of these bodies are remarkable, and consist of a lashing or undulatory motion of the tail.