GENERAL ANATOMY. XXXV111 The blood-corpuscles, blood-discs, or blood-globules, as they are more com- monly called, are of two kinds, the red and the white. The red globules are far the more numerous, and are those which are always intended when the expression blood-discs or blood-globules is used without any other qualification. They are said to be in man about three or four hundred times as numerous as the white (Harley) ; by others only fifty times as numerous (Todd and Bowman).* They differ w ry much in size and shape in different animals. In man their size varies considerably, even in the same drop of blood, between the limits of and '„ 8*00 of an inch in diameter, the average being about a5>00 (Todd and Bowman). They are circular discs, bi-concave in profile, having a slight central depression, with a raised border (as seen in Fig. I. b). Their colour appears of a faint yellow when they are seen singly, but it is to their aggregation that the blood owes its red hue. Human blood-discs present no trace of a nucleus. They consist of a tough elastic transparent stroma uniformly pervaded by a colouring matter called haemoglobin. When the blood is circulating, under the microscope, in one of the lower animals, the blood-globules are seen to be separate from each other, and are also separated from the wall of the vessel by an interval or ' lumen.' Doubtless the same is the case in the human body ; but when drawn and examined on a slide without reagents, the blood-globules often collect into heaps like rouleaux of coin (Fig. I. c). During life they may also be seen to change their shape under pressure so as to adapt themselves to some extent to the size of the vessel. Their shape is very soon influenced by the medium in which they are placed, and by the specific gravity of that medium. In water they swrell up, lose their colour, and cease to be visible, leaving the white corpuscles in the field. Solutions of salt or sugar, denser than the serum, give them a stellate appear- ance ; and the usual shape may be restored by diluting the solution to the proper point. A solution of the proper strength merely separates the blood-globules mechanically, without changing their shape. There can be no doubt that the difference in colour between arterial and venous blood must be due to some minute difference in the red blood- globules ; and it is also in the highest degree probable that the chemical differences between these two kinds of blood are due, in part at least, to such differences; but the change has not hitherto been rendered per- ceptible either to the microscope or to chemical analysis. At the same time, the researches of Professor Stokes f show that the colouring matter of the blood produces different effects on the solar spectrum, according as it is in a more or less oxidised condition ; and it is in the highest degree probable that the same change in the oxidation of the contents of the * Hirt puts the proportion as low as i : 1761 during fasting, and 1 : 695 or 1 : 429 after food (KSUiker). Venesection, by withdrawing so much larger a proportion of the red fj-lohules, and also by favouring the absorption of lymphatic fluid into the blood, much increases the relative proportion of the white corpuscles, so that Kolliker asserts that in the horse, after enormous venesection (up to 5° lbs.), the coloured and colourless corpuscles appear equally numerous, t Proceedings of Hoyal Society, 1S64. Fig. I,—Human blood-glo- bules. n. Seen from the surface. Seen from the side. e. United in rou- leaux, d. Rendered spherical by water. e. Decolourised bj the same. /. Blood-globules shruuk by evaporation.