704 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. from the ventricle, is continued into the saeculus laryngis. It is then reflected over the true vocal cords, where it is thin, and very intimately adherent; covers the inner surface of the crico-thyroid membrane and cricoid cartilage; and is ultimately con- tinuous with the lining membrane of the trachea. It is covered with columnar ciliated epithelium below the superior vocal cord ; but above this point the cilia are found only in front, as high as the middle of the epiglottis. In the rest of its extent the epithelium is of the squamous variety. Glands.— The mucous membrane of the larynx is furnished with numerous muciparous glands, the orifices of which are found in neai'ly every part; they are very numerous upon the epiglottis, being lodged in little pits in its substance; they are also found in large numbers along the posterior margin of the aryteno-epiglottidean fold, in front of the arytenoid cartilages, where they are termed the arytenoid glands. They exist also in large numbers upon the inner surface of the saeculus laryngis. None are found on the vocal cords. "Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the larynx are the laryngeal branches derived from the superior and inferior thyroid. The veins empty themselves into the superior middle and inferior thyroid veins. The lymphatics terminate in the deep cervical glands. The nerves are the superior laryngeal, and the inferior or recurrent laryngeal branches of the pneumogastric nerves, joined by filaments from the sympa- thetic. The superior laryngeal nerves supply the mucous membrane of the larynx and the Crico-thyroid muscles. The inferior laryngeal nerves supply the remaining muscles. The Arytenoid muscle is supplied by both nerves. The Trachea. (Fig. 399.) The trachea, or air-tube, is a cartilaginous and membranous cylindrical tube, flattened posteriorly, which extends from the lower part of the larynx, on a level with the fifth cervical vertebra, to opposite the third dorsal, where it divides into the two bronchi, one for each lung. The trachea measures about four inches and a half in length ; its diameter, from side to side, is from three-quarters of an inch to an inch, being always greater in the male than in the female. /,\ In/ions.—The anterior surface of the trachea is convex, and covered in the neck, from above downwards, l>y the isthmus of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid veins, the arteria thyroidea ima (when that vessel exists), the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the cervical fascia (in the interval between those muscles), ami. more superficially, by the anastomosing branches between the anterior jugular veins ; in the thorax it is covered from before backwards by the first piece of the sternum, the remains of the thymus gland, the arch of the aorta, the innominate and left carotid arteries, and the deep cardiac plexus. It lies upon the oesophagus, which is directed to the left near the arch of the aorta; laterally, in the neck, it is in relation with the common carotid arteries, the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland, the inferior thyroid arteries, and recurrent laryngeal nerves ; and, in the thorax, it lies in the interspace between the pleura?, having the pneumogastric nerve on each side of it. The Right Bronchus, wider, shorter, and more horizontal in direction than the left, is about an inch in length, and enters the right lung, opposite the fourth dorsal vertebra. The vena azygos arches over it, from behind; and the right pulmonary artery lies below, and then in front of it. The Left Bronchus is smaller, more oblique, and longer than the right, being nearly two inches in length. It enters the root of the left lung, opposite the fifth dorsal vertebra, about an inch lower than the right bronchus. It crosses, in front of the oesophagus, the thoracic duct and the descending aorta ; passes beneath the arch of the aorta, and has the left pulmonary artery lying at first above, and then in front of it. If a transverse section is made across the trachea, a short distance above its point of bifurcation, and a bird's-eye view taken of its interior (fig. 400), the septum placed at the bottom of the trachea and separating the two bronchi will be seen to