THE SKELETON. of the palatine glands. This surface presents anteriorly the lower orifice of the anterior palatine fossa. In some bones a delicate linear suture may be seen ex- tending from the anterior palatine fossa to the interval between the lateral incisor and the canine tooth. Thus marks out the intermaxillary, or incisive bone, which in some animals exists permanently as a separate piece. It includes the whole thickness of the alveolus, the corresponding part of the floor of the uOse, and the anterior nasal spine, and contains the sockets of the incisor teeth. The outer border of the palate process is incorporated with the i\'st of the bone. The inner border is thicker in front than liehind, and is raised above into a ridge, which, with the corresponding ridge in the op|xxsit« bone, forms a groove for the reception of the vomer. The anterior margin is bounded by the thin concave bonier of tho opening of the nose, prolonged forwards internally into a sharp process, forming, with a similar process of the opposite bone, the anterior nasal spine. The posterior border is seriated for articulation with the horizontal plate of the palate bone. Development. This bone is formed at such an early period, and ossification proceeds in it with such rapidity, that it has been found impracticable hitherto to determine with accuracy its number of centres. It appears, however, probable that it has four centres of development, viz., one for the nasal and facial por- tions, one for tho orbital and malar, one for the incisive, and one for the palatal portion, in- cluding the entire palate except the incisive segment. The inci- sive portion is indicated in young hones by a fissure, which marks off a small segment of the palate, including the two incisor teeth. In some animals, this remains permanently as a separate piece, constituting the intermaxillary bone: and in the human subject, where the jaw is malformed, as in cleft palate, this segment may 1h> separated from the maxillary bone by a deep fissure extending backwards between the two into the palate. If the fissure be on both sides, both segments are quite isolated from the maxillary bones, and hang from the end of the vomer : they are not unfrequently much displaced, and the deformity is often accompanied by congenital fissure of the upper lip, either on one or both sides of the median Una The maxillary sinus appears at an earlier period than any of the other nasal sinuses, its development commencing about the fourth month of fixtal life. Articulations. With nin- bones : two of the cranium—the frontal and ethmoid, and seven of the face, viz., the nasal, malar, lachrymal, inferior turbinated, palate, vomer, and its fellow of the opposite side. Sometimes it articulates with the orbital plate of the sphenoid. Attach me nt of MuscIik. Orbicularis palpebrarum, Obliquus inferior oculi. Leva- tor labii superioris ala-que nasi. Levator labii sui>erioris proprius, Levator anguli oris, Compressor nasi, Depressor ahe nasi, Dilatator naris posterior, Masseter, Buccinator, External pterygoid and Orbicularis oris. The Laciikymai. BONSS. The Lachrymal are the smallest and most fragile bones of the face. Thev arc situated at the front part of the inner wall of the orbit, and resemble somewhat in