ANTERIOR FEMORAL REGION". 299 the femoral artery should be carefully examined, as its inner border forms the chief guide in tying the artery. In the upper third of the thigh, it forms the outer side of a triangular space, Scarpa's triangle, the inner side of which is formed by the Adductor longus, and the base, turned upwards, by Poupart's ligament; the femoral artery passes perpendicularly through the middle of this space from its base to its apex. In the middle third of the thigh, the femoral artery lies first along the inner border, and then behind the Sartorius. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia lata and integument. By its deep surface, with the Iliacus, Psoas, Rectus, Vastus internus, anterior crural nerve, sheath of the femoral vessels, Adductor longus, Adductor magnus, Gracilis, long saphenous nerve, and internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. The Quadriceps extensor includes the four remaining muscles on the front of the thigh. It is the great Extensor muscle of the leg, forming a large fleshy mass, which covers the front and sides of the femur, being united below into a single tendon, attached to the tibia, and above subdividing into separate portions, which have received distinct names. Of these, one occupying the middle of the thigh, con- nected above with the ilium, is called the Rectus femoris, from its straight course. The other divisions lie in immediate connection with the shaft of the femur, which they cover from the condyles to the trochanters. The portion on the outer side of the femur is termed the Vastus externus; that covering the inner side, the Vastus internus ; and that covering the front of the femur, the Crureus. The two latter portions are, however, so intimately blended, as to form but one muscle. The Rectus Femoris is situated in the middle of the anterior region of the thigh; it is fusiform in shape, and its superficial .fibres are arranged in a bipenniform manner, the deep fibres running straight down to the deep aponeui'osis. It arises by two tendons : one, the straight tendon, or short head, from the anterior inferior spinous process of the ilium; the other is flattened, and curves outwards, to be attached to a groove above the brim of the-acetabulum; this is the reflected tendon, or lcp_ng_head, of the Rectus; it unites with the straight tendon at an acute angle, and then spreads into an aponeurosis, from which the muscular fibies arise.* The muscle terminates in a broad and thick aponeurosis, which occupies the lower two- thirds of its posterior surface, and gradually becoming narrowed into a flattened tendon, is inserted into the patella in common with the Vasti and Crureus. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the anterior fibres of the Gluteus minimus, the Tensor vagina? femoris, Sartorius, and the Psoas and Iliacus ; by its lower three-fourths, with the fascia lata. By its posterior surface, with the hip- joint, the external circumflex vessels, and the Crureus and Vasti muscles. The three remaining muscles have been described collectively by some anatomists, separate from the Rectus, under the name of the Triceps extensor cruris. In order to expose them, divide the Sartorius and Rectus across the middle, and turn them aside, when the muscles in question will be fully brought into view. The Vastus externus is the largest part of the Quadriceps extensor. It arises by ' a broad aponeui'osis, which is attached to the tubercle of the femur, to the anterior border of the great trochanter, to a horizontal ridge on its outer surface, to a rough lijie_leading from the trochanter major to the linea aspera, and to the whole length, of the outer lip._of the lijiea aspera ; this aponeurosis, coxers the upper thi'ee-fourths of the muscle, and from its inner surface many fibres arise. A few additional fibres arise from the tendon of the Gluteus maxim us, and from the external intermuscular septum between the Vastus externus, and short head of the Biceps. The fibres form a Luge fleshy mass, which is attached to a strong aponeurosis, placed on the under surface of the muscle at its lower part: this becomes contracted and thickened into a flat tendon, which is inserted into the outer border of the patella, blending with the great extensor tendon. * Mr. W. R. Williams in an interesting paper in the Journ. of Anat. and Phys. vol. xiii. p. 204, points out that the reflected tendon is the real origin of the muscle, and is alone present in early foetal life. The direct tendon is merely an accessory baDd of condensed fascia. The paper will well repay perusal, though in some particulars, I think, the description in the text more generally accurate, (fin.)