191 EE-JOINT. The hip-joint presents a very striking contrast to the other great enarthrodial joint—the shoulder—in the much more complete mechanical arrangements for its security and for the limitation of its motions. In the shoulder, as we have seen, the head of the humerus is not adapted at all in shape to the glenoid cavity, and is hardly restrained in any of its ordinary movements by the capsular ligament. In the hip-joint, on the contrary, the head of the femur is closely fitted to the acetabulum for a distance extending over nearly half a sphere, and at the margin of the bony cup it is still more closely embraced by the ligamentous ring of the cotyloid ligament, so that the head of the femur is held in its place by that ligament even when the fibres of the capsule have been quite divided (Humphry). The anterior por- tion of the capsule, described as the ilio-femoral or accessory ligament, is the strongest of all the ligaments in the body, and is put on the stretch by any attempt to extend the femur beyond a straight line with the trunk. That is to say, this ligament is the chief agent in maintaining the erect position without muscular fatigue, the action of the extensor muscles of the buttock being balanced by the tension of the ilio-femoral and capsular ligaments. The security of the joint is also provided for by the two bones being directly united through the ligamentum teres. Flexion of the hip-joint is arrested by the soft parts of the thigh and abdomen being brought into contact; * extension by the tension of the ilio-femoral ligament and front of the capsule; adduction by the upper part of the accessory ligament and of the capsule, and in the flexed position of the limb by the ligamentum teres ; abduction by the lower portion of the ilio-femoral ligament and of the capsule; rotation outwards by the front part of the capsule, and the ligamentum teres, and rotation inwards by the back part of the capsule. II. Knee Joint. The knee is a ginglymus, or hinge-joint; the bones entering into its formation are, the condyles of the femur above, the head of the tibia below, and the patella in front. The articular surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected to- gether by ligaments, some of which are placed on the exterior of the joint, whilst others occupy its interior. Exterior Ligaments. Interior Ligaments. Anterior, or Ligamentum Pa- Anterior, or External Crucial. tellse. Posterior, or Internal Crucial. Posterior', or Ligamentum Pos- Two Semilunar Fibro-cartilages. ticum Winslowii. Transverse. Internal Lateral. Coronary. Two External Lateral. Ligamentum mucosum. Capsular. Ligamenta alaria. The Anterior Ligament, or Ligamentum Patella} (fig. 141), is that portion of the common tendon of the extensor muscles of the thigh which is continued from the patella to the tubercle of the tibia, supplying the place of an anterior ligament. It is a strong, flat, ligamentous band, about three inches in length, attached, above, to the apex of the patella and the rough depression on its posterior surface ; below to the lower part of the tuberosity of the tibia ; its superficial fibres being continuous across the front of the patella with those of the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor. Two synovial bursa? are connected with this ligament and the patella; one is inter- posed between the patella and the skin covering its anterior surface; the other of small size, between the ligamentum patellae and the upper part of the tuberosity of the tibia. Tiie posterior surface of this ligament is separated above from the knee-joint by a large mass of adipose tissue ; its lateral margins are continuous with the aponeuroses derived from the Vasti muscles. * The hip-joint cannot be completely flexed, in most persons, without at the same time flexing the kuee; on account of the shortness of the ham-string muscles, Cleland, Journ. of Anat. andl'hys. No. I. Old Series, p. 87.