761 THE OVARIES. Discharge of the Ovum.—The Graafian vesicles, after gradually approaching the surface of the ovary, burst : the ovum and fluid contents of the vesicles are liberated, and escape on the exterior of the ovary, passing thence into the Fallopian tube, the fimbriated processes of which are supposed to grasp the ovary, the aperture of the tube being applied to the part corresponding to the matured and bursting vesicle. In the human subject, and most Mammalia, the maturation and discharge of the ova occur at regular periods only, and are indicated, in the Mammalia by the phenomena of heat or rut; and in the human female, by menstruation. Sexual desire is more intense in females at this period ; and if the union of the sexes takes place, the ovum may be fecundated. Corpus Luteum.—Immediately after the rupture of a Graafian vesicle, and the escape of its ovum, the vesicle is filled with blood-tinged fluid; and in a short time the circumference of the vesicle is occupied by a firm yellow substance, which is pro- bably formed from plasma exuded from its walls. Dr. Lee believes that this yellow matter is deposited outside both the membranes of the follicle; Montgomery regards it as placed between the layers; while Kolliker considei's it as a thickening of the inner layer of the outer coat of the follicle. The exudation is at first of a dark brown or brownish-red colour, but it soon becomes paler and its consistence more dense. For every follicle in the ovary from which an ovum is discharged, a corpus luteum will be found. But the characters it exhibits, and the changes produced in it, will be determined by the circumstance of the ovum being impregnated or not. Although there is little doubt that corpora lutea exist in the ovaries after the escape of ova incleijendently of coitus or impregnation, it appears that the corpus luteum of pregnancy (true corpus luteum) possesses characters by which it may be distinguished from one formed in a follicle from which an ovum has been discharged without subsequent impregnation (false corpus luteum). The true corpora lutea are of large size, often as large as a mulberry; of a rounded form, and project from the surface of the ovary, the summit of the projec- tion presenting a triangular depression or cicatrix, where the peritoneum appears to have been torn. They contain a small cavity in their centre during the early period of their formation, which becomes contracted, and exhibits a stellate cicatrix during the latter stages of pregnancy. Their vascularity, lobulated or puckered appearance, firm consistence, and yellow colour, are also characteristic marks of true corpora lutea. False corpora lutea are of small size, do not project from the surface of the ovary, are angular in form, seldom present any cicatrix, contain no cavity in their centre : the material composing them is not lobulated, its consistence is usually soft, often resembling coagulated blood ; the yellow matter exists in the form of a very thin layer, or more commonly is entirely wanting. False corpora lutea most frequently result from the effusion into the cavities of the Graafian vesicles of serum or blood, which subsequently undergoes various changes, and is ultimately removed. Dr. Lee states that in the false corpora lutea the yellow substance is contained within, or attached to, the inner surface of the Graafian vesicle, and does not surround it, as is the case in the true corpora lutea. In the foetus, the ovaries are situated, like the testes, in the lumbar region, near the kidneys. They may be distinguished from those bodies at an early period by their elongated and flattened form, and by their position, which is at first oblique and then nearly transverse. They gradually descend into the pelvis. Lying above the ovary in the broad ligament between it and the Fallopian tube is the organ of liosenmiiller, called also the parovarium or epoophoron. This is the remnant of a fcetal structure, the development of which has been described in the In- troduction. In the adult it consists of a few closed convoluted tubes, lined with epithelium, some of them atrophied, and one usually distinguishable from the rest by ending in a bulbous or hydatid swelling. The parovarium is connected at its uterine extremity with the remains of the Wolffian duct—the duct of Gaertner. The Ligament of the ovary is a rounded cord, which extends from each superior