ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 672. circumference of the lobule, and, piercing between the lobules. From this plexus Microscopical section from the liver of a cliilr] Khree months old, hardened in chromic acid. The hepatic cells (6). with their single nuclei, are separated from the capillary wall by a small intervening space. The capillaries (a) contain closely compressed coloured, and a few colourless, blood-corpuscles. A few elongated nuclei belonging to the capillary wall are seen. Within the line of junction (septum), between two hepatic cells, the transverse section of a biliary duct is seen as a small transparent space (c). There is also one at the angle, where several of these cells come into contact (</). its wall, form a plexus (interlobular) ducts are derived which pass into the portal canals, become enclosed in Glis- son's capsule, and, accompanying the portal vein and hejmtic artery (fig. 383), join with other ducts to form two main trunks, which leave the liver at the transverse fissure, and by this union form the hepatic duct. 383- A transverse section of a small portal canal and its vessels, after Kiernan. 1. Portal vein. 2. Inter- lobular branches. 3. Vaginal branches. 4. Hepatic duct. 5. Hepatic artery. Gall-bladder. The gall-bladder is the reservoir for the bile ; it is a conical or pear-shaped mem- branous sac, lodged in a fossa on the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, and extending from near the right extremity of the transverse fissure to the anterior free margin of the organ. It is about four inches in length, one inch in breadth at its widest part, and holds from eight to ten drachms. It is divided into a fundus, body, and neck. The fundus, or broad extremity, is directed downwards, forwards, and to the right, and occasionally projects from the anterior border of the liver; the body and neck are directed upwards and backwards to the left. The gall-bladder is held in its position by the peritoneum, which, in the majority of cases, passes over its under surface, but the serous membrane occasionally invests the gall-bladder, which then is connected to the liver by a kind of mesentery. Relations.—The body of the gall-bladder is in relation, by its upper surface, with the liver, to which it is connected by areolar tissue and vessels; by its under surface, with the first portion of the duodenum, occasionally the pyloric end of the stomach, and the hepatic flexure of the colon. The fundus is completely invested by peritoneum ; it is in relation, in front, with the abdominal parietes, immediately below the ninth costal cartilage; behind, with the transverse arch of the colon. The neck is narrow, and curves upon itself like the italic lettery; at its point of connection with the body and with the cystic duct, it presents a well-marked con- striction. When the gall-bladder is distended with bile or calculi, the fundus may he felt through the abdominal parietes, especially in an emaciated subject: the relations of this sac will also serve to explain the occasional occurrence of abdominal biliary fistulse, through which biliary calculi may pass out, and of the passage of calculi from the gall-bladder into the stomach, duodeuum, ur colon, which occasionally happens.