SPHENOID BONE. 37 Yesalii, transmitting a small vein. Lastly, near to the spine of the sphenoid is a short canal, sometimes double, the foramen spinosurq; it transmits the middle meningeal artery. The external surface (fig. 35) is convex, and divided by a trans- verse ridge, the pterygoid ridge, into two portions. The superior or larger, convex from above downwards, concave from before backwards, enters into the formation of the temporal fossa, and'gives attachment to part of the Temporal muscle. The in- ferior portion, smaller in size and concave, enters into the formation of the zygomatic fossa, and affords attachment to the External pterygoid muscle. It presents, at its posterior part, a sharp-pointed eminence of bone, the spinous process, to which are connected the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw, and the Tensor palati and Laxator tympani muscles. The pterygoid ridge, dividing the temporal and zygomatic portions, gives attachment to part of the External pterygoid muscle. At its inner and anterior extremity is a triangular spine of bone, which serves to increase the extent of origin of this muscle. The anterior or orbital surface, smooth, and quad- rilateral in form, assists in forming the outer wall of the orbit. It is bounded above by a serrated edge, for articulation with the frontal bone; below, by a rounded border, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure ; internally, it enters into the formation of the sphenoidal fissure ; while externally it presents a serrated margin, for articulation with the malar bone. At the upper part off the inner border is a notch for the transmission of a branch of the ophthalmic artery; and at its lower part a small pointed spine of bone, which serves for the \\ attachment of part of the lower head of the External rectus. One or two small foramina may occasionally be seen for the passage of branches of the deep temporal arteries; they are called the external orJiifaljhraiahia. Cirm mf< n-net■of'the gnat wing (fig. 34): commencing from behind, from the body of the sphenoid to the spine, the outer half of this margin is serrated, for articulation with the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; whilst the inner half forms the anterior boundary of the foramen lacerum medium, and presents the posterior aperture of the Vidian canal. In front of the spine the circumference of the great wing presents a serrated edge, bevelled at the expense of the inner table below, and of the external above, which articulates with the squamous portion of the temporal bone. At the tip of the great wing a triangular portion is seen, bevelled at the expense of the internal surface, for articu- lation with the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. Internal to this is a broad serrated surface, for articulation with the frontal bone : this surface is continuous internally with the sharp inner edge of the orbital plate, which assists in the forma- tion of the sphenoidal fissure. The Lesser Wings (processes of Ingrassias) (fig. 34) are two thin triangular plates of bone, which arise from the upper and lateral parts of the body of the sphenoid; and, projecting transversely outwards, terminate in a sharp point. The superior surface of each is smooth, flat, broader internally than externally, and supports the anterior lobe of the brain. The inferior surface forms the back part of the roof of the orbit, and the upper boundary of the sphenoidal fissure or foramen lacerum anterius. This fissure is of a triangular form, and leads from the cavity of the cranium into the orbit; it is bounded internally by the body of the sphenoid—above, by the lesser wing ; below, by the internal margin of the orbital surface of the great wing—and is converted into a foramen by the articulation of this bone with the frontal. It transmits the third, the fourth, the! ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves, some filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic, and the ophthalmic vein. The anterior border of the lesser wing is serrated for articulation with the frontal bone ; the posterior, smooth and rounded, is received into the fissure of Sylvius of the brain. The inner extre- mity of this border forms the anterior^linmd-^process. The lesser wing is connected to the side of the body by two roots, the upper thin and flat, the lower thicker, obliquely directed, and presenting on its outer side, near its junction with the body, a small tubercle, for the attachment of the common tendon of three of the muscles of the eye. Between the two roots is the optic foramen, for the transmission of the optic nerve and ophthalmic artery.