625 DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEETH. Chemical Composition. According to Berzelms and Bibra, dentine consists of 28 parts of animal, and 72 of earthy matter. The animal matter is resolvable by boiling into gelatin. The earthy matter consists of phosphate of lime, carbonate of lime, a trace of fluoride of calcium, phosphate of magnesia, and other salts. The Enamel is the hardest and most compact part of a tooth, and forms a thin crust over the exposed part of the crown, as far as the commencement of the fang. It is thickest on the grinding surface of the crown, until worn away by attrition, and becomes thinner towards the neck. It consists of a congeries of minute hexa- gonal rods. They lie parallel with one another, resting by one extremity upon the dentine, which presents a number of minute depressions for their reception; and forming the free surface of the crown by the other extremity. These fibres are directed vertically on the summit of the crown, horizontally at the sides; they are about the -gJg-0- of an inch in diameter, and pursue a more or less wavy course. The enamel is marked by a series of undulating lines, which cross each other or 'decussate;' these lines are doubtless formed by the variation in the course of the enamel-rods. Another series of lines, coloured brown, probably from the presence of pigment, and denominated the parallel stria? of Retzius, are seen on a section of the enamel. Their exact significance is uncertain. Numerous minute interstices intervene between the enamel fibres near their dentinal surface, a provision calculated to allow of the permeation of fluids from the dentinal tubuli into the substance of the enamel. The enamel-rods consist of solid hexagonal or four-sided prisms connected by their surfaces and ends, and filled with calcareous matter. If the latter be removed, by weak acid, from newly formed or growing enamel, it will be found to present a network of delicate prismatic cells of animal matter. It is a disputed point whether the dentinal fibres penetrate a certain distance between the rods of the enamel or no. No nutritive canals exist in the enamel. Chemical Composition. According to Bibra, enamel consists of 96*5 per cent, of earthy matter, and 3^5 per cent, of animal matter. The earthy matter consists of phosphate of lime, with traces of fluoride of calcium, carbonate of lime, phosphate of magnesia, and other salts. The Cortical Substance, or cement {crusta petrosa), is disposed as a thin layer on the roots of the teeth, from the termination of the enamel, as far as the apex of the fang, where it is usually very thick. In structure and chemical composition it resembles bone. It contains, sparingly, the lacuna? and canaliculi which characterise true bone; the lacuna? placed near the surface have the canaliculi radiating from the side of the lacuna? towards the periodontal membrane ; and those more deeply placed join with the adjacent dental tubuli. In the thicker portions of the crusta petrosa, the lamella? and Haversian canals peculiar to bone are also found. As age advances, the cement increases in thickness, and gives rise to those bony growths, or exostoses, so common in the teeth of the aged; the pulp-cavity becomes also partially filled up by a hard substance, intermediate in structure between dentine and bone (osteo-dentine, Owen ; secondary dentine, Tomes). It appears to be formed by a slow conversion of the dental pulp, which shrinks, or even disappears. Development of the Teeth. (Figs. 345 to 351.) In describing the development of the teeth it has seemed better to give the more modern account first, and then that of Goodsir, which was till recently universally accepted. According to the description now generally adopted (that of Waldeyer), the de- velopment of the teeth in the foetus begins at a very early period—about the seventh week. On the surface of the jaw there is found a depression or groove (' the dental groove '), the surface of which is formed of a collection of epithelial cells, the tissue below of gelatinous and cellular substance, which is taken to represent the corium and cellular tissue of the mucous membrane, and deeper than which is the ossifying substance of the jaw (fig. 345). The essential structures of the teeth are derived S S