VASCULAR CHANGES AT BIRTH. ^95 later period, as the separation between the two auricles becomes more distinct, it seems probable that some mixture of the two streams must take place. 4. The blood carried from the placenta to the foetus by the umbilical vein, mixed with the blood from the inferior cava, passes almost directly to the arch of the aorta, and is distributed by the branches of that vessel to the head and upper extremities : hence the large size and perfect development of those parts at birth. 5. The blood contained in the descending aorta, chiefly derived from that which has already circulated through the head and limbs, together with a small quantity from the left ventricle, is distributed to the lower extremities : hence the small size and imperfect development of these parts at birth. Changes in the Vascular System at Birth. At birth, when respiration is established, an increased amount of blood from the pulmonary artery passes through the lungs, which now perform their office as respi- ratory organs, and, at the same time, the placental circulation is cut off. The fora- men ovale becomes gradually closed in by about the tenth day after birth ; a valvu- lar fold rises up on the left side of its margin, and ultimately above its upper part: this valve becomes adherent to the margins of the foramen for the greater part of its circumference, but above a valvular opening is left between the two auricles, which sometimes remains persistent. The ductus arteriosus begins to contract immediately after respiration is established, becomes completely closed from the fourth to the tenth day, and ultimately degenerates into an impervious cord, which serves to connect the left pulmonary artery to the conca vity of the arch of the aorta. Of the umbilical or hypogastric arteries, the portion continued on to the bladder from the trunk of the corresponding internal iliac remains pervious, as the superior vesical artery; and the part between the fundus of the bladder and the umbilicus becomes obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and projects into the peritoneal sac, so as to form the two fossae of the peritoneum, spoken of in the section on the Surgical Anatomy of Direct Inguinal Hernia. The umbilical veins and ductus venosus become completely obliterated between the second and fifth days after birth, and ultimately dwindle to fibrous cords ; the former becoming the round ligament of the liver, the latter the fibrous cord, which, in the adult, may be traced along the fissure of the ductus venosus.