745 THE SPERMATIC CORD. muscular fibre, but no fat. Its contractility is slow, and excited by cold and mechan- ical stimuli, but not by electricity. The intercolumnar fascia is a thin membrane, derived from the margin of the pillars of the external abdominal ring, during the descent of the testis in the foetus, being prolonged downwards around the surface of the cord and testis. It is separated from the dartos by loose areolar tissue, which allows of considerable movement of the latter upon it, but is intimately connected with the succeeding layers. The cremasteric fascia consists of scattered bundles of muscular fibres {Cremaster muscle), derived from the lower border of the internal oblique muscle, during the descent of the testis (p. 751). The fascia propria is a thin membranous layer, which loosely invests the sur- face of the cord. It is a continuation downwards of the infundibuliform process of the fascia transversalis, and is also derived during the descent of the testis in the foetus. The tunica vaginalis is described with the proper covering of the testis. A more detailed account of the other coverings of the testis will be found in the description of the surgical anatomy of inguinal hernia. Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the coverings of the testis are : the superficial and deep external pudic, from the femoral; the superficial perinatal branch of the internal pudic; and the cremasteric branch from the epigastric. The veins follow the course of the corresponding arteries. The lymphatics terminate in the inguinal glands. The nerves are : the ilio-inguinal branch of the lumbar plexus, the two superficial perineal branches of the internal pudic nerve, the inferior pudendal branch of the small sciatic nerve, and the genital branch of the genito- crural nerve. The Spermatic Cord extends from the internal abdominal ring, where the structures of which it is composed converge, to the back part of the testicle. It is composed of arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves, and the excretory duct of the testicle. These structures are connected together by areolar tissue, and invested by the fascia? brought down by the testicle in its descent. In the abdominal wall the cord passes obliquely along the inguinal canal, lying at first beneath the Internal oblique, and upon the fascia transversalis; but nearer the pubes, it rests upon Poupart's ligament, having the aponeurosis of the External oblique in front of it, and the con- joined tendon behind it. It then escapes at the external ring, and descends nearly vertically into the scrotum. The left cord is rather longer than the right, conse- quently the left testis hangs somewhat lower than its fellow. The arteries of the cord are : the spermatic, from the aorta; the artery of the vas deferens, from the superior vesical; and the cremasteric, from the deep epigastric artery. The spermatic artery supplies the testicle. On approaching the gland, it gives off some branches which supply the epididymis, and others which perforate the tunica albuginea behind, and spread out on its inner surface, or pass through the fibrous septum in its interior, to be distributed on the membranous septa between the lobes. The artery of the vas deferens is a long slender vessel, which accompanies the vas deferens, ramifying upon the coats of that duct, and anastomosing with the spermatic artery near the testis. The cremasteric branch from the epigastric supplies the Cremaster muscle, and other coverings of the cord. The spermatic veins leave the back part of the testis, and, receiving branches from the epididymis, unite to form a plexus {pampiniform, plexus), which forms the chief mass of the cord. They pass up in front of the vas deferens, and unite to form a single trunk, which terminates, on the right side, in the inferior vena cava, on the left side, in the left renal vein. The lymphatics are of large size, accompany the blood-vessels, and terminate in the lumbar glands.