489 BASE OF THE BRAIN. shaped prominent cluster of isolated convolutions called the island of Reil (gyri operti). The anterior perforated space (substantia perforata) is situated at the inner side of the fissure of Sylvius. It is of a triangular shape, bounded in front by the con- volutions of the anterior lobe and the roots of the olfactory nerve; behind, by the optic tract; externally, by the middle lobe and commencement of the fissure of Sylvius; internally, it is continuous with the lamina cinerea, and crossed by the peduncle of the corpus callosum. It is of a. greyish colour, and corresponds to the under surface of the corpus striatum, a large mass of grey matter, situated in the interior of the brain; it has received its name from being perforated by numerous minute apertures for the transmission of small straight vessels into the substance of the corpus striatum. The optic commissure is situated in the middle line, immediately behind the lamina cinerea. It is the ijoint of junction between the two optic nerves. Immediately behind the diverging optic tracts, and between them and the pedun- cles of the cerebrum {crura cerebri) is a lozenge-shaped interval, the inter•peduncular space, in which are found the following parts, arranged in the following order from before backwards : the tuber cinereum, infundibulum, pituitary body, corpora albi- cantia, and the posterior perforated space. The tuber cinereum is an eminence of grey matter, situated between the optic tracts and the corpora albicantia ; it is connected with the surrounding parts of the cerebrum, forms part of the floor of the third ventricle, and is continuous with the grey substance in that cavity. From the middle of its under surface a conical tubular process of grey matter, about two lines in length, is continued downwards and forwards to be attached to the posterior lobe of the pituitary body; this is the infundibulum.. Its canal, which is funnel-shaped, communicates with the third ventricle. The pituitary body (hypophysis cerebri) is a small reddish-grey vascular mass, weighing from five to ten grains, and of an oval form, situated in the sella Turcica, in connection with which it is retained by the dura mater forming the inner wall of the cavernous sinus. It is very vascular, and consists of two lobes, separated from one another by a fibrous lamina. Of these, the anterior is the larger, of an oblong form, and somewhat concave behind, where it receives the posterior lobe, which is l'ound. The anterior lobe consists externally of a firm yelk) wish -grey substance, and internally of a soft pulpy substance of a yellowish-white colour. The posterior lobe is darker than the anterior. In the foetus it is larger proportionally than in the adult, and contains a cavity which communicates through the infundibulum with the third ventricle. In the adult it is firmer and more solid, and seldom contains any cavity. Its structure, especially the anterior lobe, is similar to that of the duct- less glands. It consists externally of a membranous capsule, enclosing a sponge-like tissue, made up of a collection of minute oblong or spherical spaces or alveoli. These alveoli are formed by slender processes prolonged into the interior of the organ from the external capsule, which branch and communicate with each other. The alveoli contain nucleated cells of variable size, arranged as a lining of one or more rows, and often haying in their centre a cavity filled with semifluid granular contents. The corpora albicantia, or mammillaria, are two small round white masses, each about the size of a pea, placed side by side immediately behind the tuber cinereum. They are formed by the anterior crura of the fornix, hence called the bulbs of the fornix, which, after descending to the base of the brain, are folded upon themselves, before passing upwards to the thalami optici. They are composed externally of white substance, and internally of grey matter; the grey matter of the two being connected by a transverse commissure of the same material. At an early period of foetal life they are blended together into one large mass, but become separated about the seventh month. The 'posterior perforated space (pons Tarini) corresponds to a whitish-grey sub- stance, placed between the corpora albicantia in front, ths pons Varolii behind, and