173 SCAPULOCLAVICULAR JOINT. The conoid ligament, the posterior and internal fasciculus, is n dense band of fibres, conical in form, the base being turned upwards, the summit downwards. It is attached by its apex to a rough depression at the base of the coracoid process, internal to the preceding ; above, by its expanded base, to the conoid tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle, and to a line proceeding internally from it for half an inch. These ligaments are in relation, in front, with the Subclavins; behind, with the Trapezius : they serve to limit rotation of the scapula forwards and backwards. The Interarticular Fibro-CartUage is most frequently absent in this articulation. When it exists, it generally only partially separates the articular surfaces, and occupies the upper part of the articulation. More rarely, it completely separates the joint into two cavities. 131.—The Left Shoulder-Joint, Scapuloclavicular Articulations, and Proper Ligaments of Scapula. There are two Synovial Membranes when a complete interarticular cartilage exists; more frequently there is only one synovial membrane. Actions. The movements of this articulation are of two kinds. 1. A gliding motion of the articular end of the clavicle on the acromion, 2. Rotation of the scapula forwards and backwards upon the clavicle, the extent of this rotation being limited by the two portions of the coraco-clavicular ligament. The scapulo-clavicular joint has important functions in the movements of the Tipper extremity. It has been well pointed out by Prof. Humphry, that if there had been no joint between the clavicle and scapula the circular movement of the scapula on the ribs (as in throwing both shoulders back or forward) would have been attended with a greater alteration in the direction of the shoulder than is consistent with the free use of the arm in such positions, and it would have been impossible to give a blow straight forward with the full force of the arm, that is to say, with the combined force of the scapula, arm, and forearm. ' This joint,' as he