73i THE SUPRARENAL CAPSULES. concave border rests upOn the upper end of the kidney, to which it is connected by areolar tissue. The inner border is in relation with the great splanchnic nerves and semilunar ganglion, and lies in contact on the right side with the inferior vena cava, and on the left side with the aorta. The surface of the suprarenal gland is surrounded by areolar tissue containing much fat, and closely invested by a thin fibrous coat, which is difficult to remove, on account of the numerous fibrous processes and vessels which enter the organ through the furrows on its anterior surface and base. Structure.—On making a perpendicular section, the gland is seen to consist of two substances—external or cortical, and internal or medullary. The former, which constitutes the chief part of the organ, is of a deep yellow colour, and consists chiefly of narrow columnar masses placed perpendicularly to the surface. The medullary substance is soft, pulpy, and of a dark brown or black colour, whence the name atrabiliary capsules, formerly given to these organs. In the centre is often seen a space, not natural, but formed by the breaking down after death of the medullary substance. 422. 423. Cortical portion of human suprarenal body under a Transverse section through the cortical substance of high magnifying power, a. (Hand cylinders. the human suprarenal body. «. Framework of co..- b. Interstitial connective tissue. nective tissue. 6. Capillaries, c. Nuclei, d. Gland- cells. The cortical portion owes its arrangement to the disposition of the capsule, which sends into the interior of the gland processes passing in vertically and communicating with each other by transverse bands, so as to form spaces which open into each other. These spaces are of slight depth near the suiface of the organ, so that there the section somewhat resembles a net; this is termed the zona glomerulosa, but they become much deeper or longer further in, so as to resemble pipes or tubes placed endwise, the zona fasciculata. Still deeper down, near the medullary part, the spaces become again of small extent; this is named the zona reticularis. These processes or trabecular, derived from the capsule and forming the framework of the spaces, are composed of fibrous connective tissue, with longitudinal bundles of unstriped muscular fibres. Within the interior of the spaces are contained groups of polyhedral cells, which are finely granular in appearance, and contain a spherical nucleus, and not unfrequently fat molecules. These groups of cells do not entirely fill the spaces in which they are contained, but between them and the trabecular of the framework is a channel, which is believed to be a lymph path or sinus, with which certain intercellular passages between the cells, composing the group, communicate. The lymph path is supposed