CKXKliAL ANATOMY. cxlvi function of conducting the vessi Is which are to nourish the embryo, and now the umbilical arteries extend along the allantois to the chorion, and grow in size as the umbilical cord and placenta are formed. The umbilical arteries are at first the termination- of the two principal aorta1, but when these vessels are united into one the umbilical arteries appear as branches, and the aorta itself ends in a caudal prolongation, which afterwards becomes the middle sacral. The common and internal iliac arteries are the only permanent remains of the umbilical arteries (see p. 401). Veins.—The primitive venous circulation lias been described above, the two omphalomesenteric veins opening by a common trunk into the lower end of the.tube which represents the heart. The next state of the venous circulation is, that at about four weeks there is found a single vein lying behind the intestinal cavity (not in front of it, as the t< mporary omphalo- mesenteric veins do), and receiving the trunk vein from the intestine (mesenteric). Two umbilical veins are early formed, and open together into the common trunk of the omphalomesenteric vein. They receive branches from the allantois and anterior surface of the embryo. The right vein soon disappears; the left umbilical vein, on the contrary, grows till it becomes the trunk vessel, into which the omphalomesenteric vein and its mesenteric branch appear to open. Next the liver begins to he formed around the umbilical vein, and then this vein sends branches into thai gland (afferent veins) which afterwards become the portal veins in the interior of the liver, and which give origin to other veins (efferent >. which return the blood from the liver, and form afterwards the hepatic veins. The portion of the umbilical vein between the giving off of the future portal vessels and the reception of the hepatic, forms the ductus venosus. The] mesenteric vein communicates at first with the omphalomesenteric ; when the veins of the liver are formed, the omphalomesenteric is transferred from! the umbilical vein to the right afferent hepatic. A portion of it persists and forms the trunk of the portal vein. The systemic veins are developed from four trunk veins, two on either! side, above and below, which appear before the formation of the allantois or the umbilical vessels. These unite into one canal on eitlu r side (sinuses of Cuvier), which open into the common trunk of the omphalomesenteric veins, and so into the auricular portion of the rudimentary heart. The-e four primitive veins lie, two of them in front, the anterior cardinal, or jugular veins, and the other two behind, the posterior cardinal veins. As the umbilical vein increases, and the omphalomesenteric diminishes in volume, the sinuses of Cuvier are transferred to the former vein, and when the inferior cava is formed and the umbilical vein becomes merely its tribu- tary, the sinuses of Cuvier open into the inferior vena cava. At a later period the portion of the vena cava inferior, between the opening of the sinuses of Cuvier and the auricle, disappears, and then the auricle received three veins—viz., the inferior cava, and the two sinuses of Cuvier, which are now called right and left superior vena cava dig. XCVIIL). The superior cardinal, or jugular veins, which form the upper branches of tbfl sinuses of Cuvier on cither side, unite about the second month by a trans- verse anastomosing branch. The left superior vena cava assumes an ob- lique position, and empties itself into the lower and left end of the auricle. Finally, its trunk disappears, while its orifice is transformed into the