STRUCTURE OF JOINTS. 149 ment strengthened by accessory ligamentous bands. Exaurples of this form of articulation are found in the hip and shoulder. Ginglymus, Hinge-joint {yiyyXvfioQ, a hinge). In this form of joint, the arti- cular surfaces are moulded to each other in such a manner as to permit motion only in two directions, forwards and backwards, the extent of motion at the same time being consilerable. The articular surfaces are connected together by strong- lateral ligaments, which form their chief bond of union. The most perfect forms of ginglymus are the elbow and ankle; the knee is less perfect, as it allows a slight degree of rotation in certain positions of the limb: there are also the metatarso- phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the lower extremity, and the metacarpo- phalangeal and phalangeal joints in the upper extremity. Diarthrosis rotatoria (Lateral Ginglymus). Where the movement is limited to rotation, the joint is formed by a pivot-like process turning within a ring, or the ring on the pivot, the ring being formed partly of bone, partly of ligament. In the articulation of the odontoid process of the axis with the atlas, the ring is formed in front by the anterior arch of the atlas; behind, by the transverse ligament; here the ring rotates round the odontoid process. In the superior radio-ulnar articula- tion, the ring is formed partly by the lesser sigmoid cavity of the ulna ; in the rest of its extent, by the orbicular ligament; here, the head of the radius rotates within the ring. Subjoined, in a tabular form, are the names, distinctive characters, and examples of the different kinds of articulations. f Dentaia, having tooth-like processes. As in interparietal suture. f Sutura vera (true) articulate by indented bor- ders. Serrata, having serrated edges, like the teeth of a saw. As in interfrontal suture. r Sutura. kx- ticulation by processes and indentations ' interlocked to- gether. Limbosa, having bevelled margins, and dentated pro- cesses. As in fronto-pa- rietal suture. Synarthrosis, or Immoveable Joint. Surfaces separated by fibrous membrane, without any inter- Squamosa, formed by thin bevelled mar- gins, overlapping each other. As in so nam o- vening synovial ca- < vity, and immoveably connected with each other. contiguous rough sur- faces. As in joints of cranium and face (except lower jaw). As in interna axil- ^ lary suture. Schindylesis. Articulation formed by the reception of a thin plate of one bone into a fissure of another. As in articulation of rostrum of sphenoid with vomer. Gomphosis. Articulation formed by the insertion of a conical process into a socket. The teeth.