740 MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. the bladder (pubo-prostatic) ; by the posterior layer of the deep perinseal fascia, which invests the commencement of the membranous portion of the urethra and prostate gland ; and by the anterior portion of the Levator ani muscle (levator prostates), which passes down on each side from the symphysis pubis and anterior ligament of the bladder to the sides of the prostate. The prostate consists of two lateral lobes and a middle lobe. The two lateral lobes are of equal size, separated behind by a deep notch, and marked by a slight furrow upon their upper and lower surface, which indicates the bi-lobed condition of the organ in some animals. The third, or middle lobe, is a small transverse band, occasionally a rounded or triangular prominence, placed between the two lateral lobes, at the under and posterior part of the organ. It lies immediately beneath the neck of the bladder, behind the commencement of the urethra, and above the ejaculatory ducts. Its existence is not constant; but it is occasionally found at an early period of life, as well as in adults, and in old age. In advanced life this, or some other portion of the prostate, often becomes considerably enlarged, and projects into the bladder, so as to impede the passage of the urine. According to Dr. Messer's researches, con- ducted at Greenwich Hospital,* it would seem that such obstruction exists in 20 per cent, of all prostates over sixty years of age. The prostate gland is perforated by the urethra and common seminal ducts. The urethra usually lies about one-third nearer its upper than its lower surface; occasionally, the prostate surrounds only the lower three-fourths of this tube, and more rarely the urethra runs through the lower instead of the upper part of the gland. The ejaculatory ducts pass forwards obliquely through a conical canal, situated in the lower part of the prostate, and open into the prostatic portion of the urethra. Structure. The prostate is enclosed in a thin but firm fibrous capsule, distinct from that derived from the posterior layer of the deep perinseal fascia, and separated from it by a plexus of veins. Its substance is of a pale reddish-grey colour, very friable, but of great density. It consists of glandular substance and muscular tissue. The muscular tissue, according to Kblliker, constitutes the proper stroma of the prostate ; the connective tissue beiug very scanty, and simply forming thin trabecules beneath the muscular fibres, in which the vessels and nerves of the gland ramify. The muscular tissue is arranged as follows : immediately beneath the fibrous capsule is a dense layer, which forms an investing sheath for the gland and is continuous behind with the external layer of the bladder, and in front forms a muscular stratum around the membranous portion of the urethra; secondly, around the urethra as it lies in the prostate is another dense layer of circular fibres, continuous behind with the in- ternal layer of the muscular coat of the bladder, and in front blending with the fibres surrounding the membranous portion of the urethra, derived from the outer layer of the prostate, first described. Between these two layers, strong bands of muscular tissue, which decussate freely, form meshes in which the glandular structure of the organ is imbedded. In that part of the gland which is situated anterior to the urethra the muscular tissue is especially dense, and there is here little or no gland- tissue ; while in that part which is behind the urethra the muscular tissue presents a wide-meshed structure, which is densest at the upper part of the gland—that is, near the bladder—becoming looser and more sponge-like towards the apex of the organ. The glandular substance is composed of numerous follicular pouches, opening into elongated canals, which join to form from twelve to twenty small excretory ducts. The follicles are connected together by areolar tissue, supported by prolon- gations from the fibrous capsule and muscular stroma, and enclosed in a delicate capillary plexus. The epithelium lining of both the canals and the terminal vesicles is of the columnar variety. The prostatic ducts open into the floor of the prostatic portion of the urethra. * Mecl.-Chir. Trans, vol. xliii. p. 152.