Ixvi GENERAL ANATOMY. inch in thickness, and marked by transverse stria1 placed at the same dis- tance from each other as the striae on the surface of the fibre. Each fibril apparently consists of a single row of minute particles (named ' sarcous elements ' by Bowman), connected together like a string of beads. Closer examination, however, shows that the elementary particles are little masses of pellucid substance, having a rectangular outline, and appearing dark in the centre. These appearances would favour the suggestion that the elementary particles of which the fibrils are composed are possibly nucleated cells, cohering in a linear series, the transverse marks between them cor- responding to their line of junction. Kolliker, however, considers ' the sarcous elements as artificial products, occasioned by the breaking up of the fibrils at the parts where they are thinner.' Fig. XXIX.— Two human Fig. XXX.—Fragments of striped elementary muscular fibres. Magnified fibres, showing a cleavage in opposite diree- 350 times. tions. Magnified 300 diameters. On closer examination the appearances become more complicated, and are susceptible of various interpretations. Thus, if we apply a higher power of the microscope, the transverse striatum which in figs. XXIX., XXX. appears as a mere alternation of dark and bright bands is resolved into the appearance shown in fig. XXXI., which show s a series of broad dark bands, separated by a bright band, which is itself divided into two by a row of dark dots. This appearance was first pointed out by Busk and Huxley. It is explained by Krause as depending on some optical property of the investment of the separate sarcous elements. Thus it is supposed that the sarcous elements have an opaque interior, and are united to each other by a transparent envelope or cell-membrane, the sides of which co- here so closely as only to show a single line, while their ends are united by some different material which breaks up the light, and causes a dark band c' c" In the one, the bundle of fibrillaa (4) is torn, and the sarcolemma ('0 is seen as an empty tube.