cxxi EARLY CHANGES IN EMBRYO. which open into the internal tract. The hypoblast forms also the deeper layer of the umbilical vesicle and allantois. All the rest of the embryo is formed from the mesoblast, viz., all the vascular and locomotive system, the cutis, all the connective tissues, the nerves,* and the genito-urinary organs, through the Wolffian bodies and other temporary foetal structures. The vascular system of the foetus extends to the yolk and the maternal parts along the umbilical vesicle and allantois, so that the greater part of these bodies and the outer layer of the amnion are also formed out of the mesoblast. The foetal portion of the placenta, being essentially a vascular structure, is also developed from the mesoblast. The method of formation of these various parts, and especially the mode of conversion of the mesoblast, is, however, very complicated. Germinal Area.—In the mass of nucleated cells into which the yolk becomes converted during the formation of the blastodermic vesicle, a small agglomeration is formed, which then spreads out into an area of nucleated cells, from which the embryo is to be formed, and which has accordingly received the name of germinal disc or area germinatira. In this portion of the ovum the first trace of the embryo appears as a faint streak, which is called the primitive trace, or primitive groove (fig. LXXVL). This groove first deepens into a furrow, bounded by two plates—the lamina dorsales, beneath which a delicate fibril appears—the chorda dorsalis, or notochord—in which cartilage can very early be recognised. The chorda dorsalis and the laminas dorsales are the rudiments of the vertebral column and canal. The first approaches towards a definite form in the embryo are made — (i) by the development of the rudimentary spinal column; (2) by the cleavage of the middle layer of the blastodermic membrane, from which a part of that column is derived; and (3) by the incurvation of the column at its cephalic end to form the brain and brain-case. The heaping up of the epiblast in the germinal area gives rise to a distinct longitudinal streak, which, when looked at from above, is seen to be constricted in the middle. Soon this heaped-up epiblast constitutes a distinct groove, the sides and base of which are formed of epiblastic cells (fig. LXXIX. a). The margins of the groove then coalesce, first in the middle of the embryo, then towards the cephalic end, which is soon seen to be more dilated than the rest, and to present constrictions dividing it imper- fectly into three chambers, and lastly at the caudal extremity. Thus a closed tube is formed lined with epiblast, and having a covering of the same membrane (fig. LXXIX. b). The lining of the tube is developed into the nervous centres, the covering into the epidermis of the back and head. Below this primitive cerebro-spinal canal lies the mesoblast, and from this are developed (1) a continuous rod-shaped body lying below the primitive groove, and called the notochord ; (2) 011 either side a substance divided into a number of square segments (the protovertehra.), which first make their appearance in the region which afterwards becomes the neck, then further forwards towards the head, and afterwards extend along the body. These protovertebrae, as will be explained hereafter, are not the same as the permanent vertebrae; but they are differentiated partly into the vertebras, * In the spinal nerves the part which is in connection with the cord, including' the gan- glia, is formed from the mesoblast, according to the most recent observations.