657 GLANDS OF SMALL INTESTINES. through the interstitial substance between the individual endothelial cells) with the interstitial cement-substance of the columnar cells of the surface of the villus. Thus we are enabled to trace a direct continuity between the interior of the lacteal and the surface of the villus by means of the reticular tissue, and it is along this path that, according to Dr. Watney, the chyle passes in the process of absorption by the villi. That is to say, it passes through the interstitial substance between the epithelium cells, through the interstitial substance of the basement-membrane, the reticulum of the matrix and the interstitial substance between the endothelial plates of the lacteal, all which structures have been shown to be continuous with one another, and being probably semi-fluid, do not offer any obstacle to the passage of the molecular basis of the chyle. All these points are illustrated by the accompanying diagram by Di'. Watney (fig. 364), for which I have to express my best thanks to him, and a comparison with fig. 365 will show the chief points in which the new differs from the old description. The simple follicles, or crypts of Lieberkiihn (fig. 367), are found in considerable numbers over every part of the mucous membrane of the small intestine. They consist of minute tubular depressions of the mucous membrane, arranged perpen- dicularly to the surface, upon which they open by small circular apertures. They may be seen with the aid of a lens, their orifices appearing as minute dots, scattered between the villi. Their walls are thin, consisting of a layer of basement-mem- brane (which is, in fact, an endothelial membrane) lined by columnar epithelium, and covered on their exterior by capillary vessels. Their contents vary even in health, and the purpose served by their secretion is still very doubtful. The duodenal, or Brunner's glands, are limited to the duodenum and com- mencement of the jejunum. They are small, flattened, granular bodies, em- bedded in the submucous areolar tissue, and open upon the surface of the mucous membrane by minute excretory ducts. They are most numerous and largest near the pylorus. They may be compared to the elementary lobules of a salivary gland spread out over a broad surface, instead of being collected in a mass. In structure they resemble the pancreas. The solitary glands (glandules solita,ria>) are found scattered throughout the mucous membrane of the small intestine, but are most numerous in the lower part of the ileum. They are small, round, whitish bodies, from half a line to a line in diameter. Their free surface is covered with villi, and each gland is surrounded by openings of follicles of Lieberkiihn. They are now recognised as lymphoid follicles, and consist of a dense interlacing retiform tissue, closely packed with lymph-corpuscles, and permeated with an abundant capillary network (fig. 368). The interspaces of the retiform tissue are continuous with larger lymph-spaces at the base of the gland through which they communicate with the lacteal system. They are situated partly in the submucous tissue, partly in the mucous membrane, where they form slight projections of its epithelial layer, after having penetrated the muscularis mucosa?. The villi which are situated on them are generally absent from the very summit (or ' cupola,' as Frey calls if) of the gland. Peyer's glands (figs. 369-371) may be regarded as aggregations of solitary glands, forming circular or oval patches from twenty to thirty in number, and varying in uu 368.—Transverse Section through the equa- torial plane of three of Peyer's Follicles from the Rabbit-. ri. Capillary network, b. Large circular vessels.