THE URINARY ORGANS. 738 mination of the membranous portion to the meatus urinarius. Commencing below the symphysis pubis, it ascends for a short distance, and then curves downwards. It is narrow, and of uniform size in the body of the penis, measuring about a quarter of an inch in diameter; being dilated behind, within the bulb : and again anteriorly within the glans penis, forming the fossa navicularis. A cross section of this canal in the body of the penis has its long diameter transverse; but in the glans, that diameter is directed vertically. The Btdbous 'portion is a name given, in some descriptions of the urethra, to the posterior dilated part of the spongy portion contained within the bulb. The meatus urinarius is the most contracted part of the urethra : it is a vertical slit, about three lines in length, bounded on each side by two small labia. The inner surface of the lining membrane of the urethra, especially on the floor of the spongy portion, presents the orifices of numerous mucous glands and follicles situated in the submucous tissue, and named the glands of Littre. They vary in size, and their orifices are directed forwards, so that they may easily intercept the point of a catheter in its passage along the canal. One of these lacunse, larger than the rest, is situated on the upper surface of the fossa navicularis, about an inch and a half from the orifice ; it is called the lacuna magna. Into the bulbous portion are found opening the ducts of Cowper's glands. Structure. The urethra is composed of three coats : a mucous, muscular, and erectile. The mucous coat forms part of the genito-urinary mucous membrane. It is continuous with the mucous membrane of the bladder, ureters, and kidneys; externally, with the integument covering the glans penis; and is prolonged into the ducts of the glands which open into the urethra, viz., Cowper's glands, the prostate gland, and the vasa deferentia and vesiculse seminales, through the ejaculatory ducts. In the spongy and membranous portions the mucous membrane is arranged in longi- tudinal folds when the organ is contracted. Small papillae are found upon it, near the orifice; and its epithelial lining is of the columnar variety, excepting near the meatus, where it is laminated. The muscular coat consists of two layers of plain muscular fibres, an external longitudinal layer, and an internal circular. The muscular tissue is most abundant in the prostatic portion of the canal. According to Hancock the muscular fibres of the urethra are continuous with those of the bladder and are arranged as follows. The outer coat of the bladder is continued forwards over the prostate, immediately beneath the capsule to the membranous portion of the urethra : the inner coat of the bladder passes through the prostate around the urethra and at the anterior extremity becomes continuous with the outer layer investing the membranous portion of the urethra. At the bulb the two layers again separate : the inner one—that is, the one derived from the inner coat of the bladder—surrounds the urethra, immediately beneath the mucous membrane, while the outer one surrounds the whole of the corpus spongiosum, lying between it and its fibrous investment. At the lips of the urethra the two layers meet together and become continuous one with the other (' Lett- somian Lectures,' 1852). A thin layer of erectile tissue is continued from the corpus spongiosum round the membranous and prostatic portions of the urethra to the neck of the bladder.