ARTERIES. 416 formed by the lower part of the posterior surface of the shaft of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, the upper end of the tibia, and the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle, and the space is covered in by the fascia lata. Contents. It contains the Popliteal vessels and their branches, together with the termination of the external saphenous vein, the internal and external popliteal nerves and their branches, the small sciatic nerve, the articular branch from the obturator nerve, a few small lymphatic glands, and a considerable quantity of loose adipose tissue. Position of contained parts. The internal popliteal nerve descends in the middle line of the space, lying superficial and crossing the artery from without inwards. The external popliteal nerve descends on the outer side of the space, lying close to the tendon of the Biceps muscle. More deeply at the bottom of the space are the popliteal vessels, the vein lying superficial and a little external to the artery, to which it is closely united by dense areolar tissue; sometimes the vein is placed on the inner instead of the outer side of the artery ; or the vein may be double, the artery lying between the two venae comites, which are usually connected by short transverse branches. More deeply, and close to the surface of the bone, is the popliteal artery, and passing off from it at right angles are its articular branches. The articular branch from the obturator nerve descends upon the popliteal artery to supply the knee; and occasionally there is found deep in the space an articular filament from the great sciatic nerve. The popliteal lymphatic glands, four or five in number, are found surrounding the artery ; one usually lies superficial to the vessel, another is situated between it and the bone, and the rest are placed on either side of it. The bursse usually found in this space are: i. On the outer side, one beneath the outer head of the Gastrocnemius (which sometimes communicates with the joint) and one beneath the tendon of the Popliteus, which is almost always an extension of the synovial membrane. Sometimes also there is a bursa above the tendon of the Popliteus, between it and the external lateral ligament. 2. On the inner side of the joint there is a large bursa between the inner head of the Gastro- cnemius and the femur, which sends a prolongation between the tendons of the Gastrocnemius and Semimembranosus, and lies in contact with the ligament of Winslow. This bursa often communicates with the joint. There is a second bursa between the tendon of the Semimembranosus and the head of the tibia; and some- times a bursa between the tendons of the Semitendinosus and Semimembranosus. The Popliteal A rtery, in its course downwards from the aperture in the Ad- ductor magnus to the lower border of the Popliteus muscle, rests first on the inner, and then on the posterior surface of the femur; in the middle of its course, on the posterior ligament of the knee-joint; and below, on the fascia covering the Popliteus muscle. Superficially, it is covered, above, by the Semimembranosus; in the middle of its course, by a quantity of fat, which separates it from the deep fascia and integu- ment ; and below, it is overlapped by the Gastrocnemius, Plantaris, and Soleus muscles, the popliteal vein, and the internal popliteal nerve. The popliteal vein, which is intimately attached to the artery, lies superficial and external to it, until near its termination, when it crosses it and lies to its inner side. The popliteal nerve is still more superficial and external, crossing, however, the artery below the joint, and lying on its inner side. Laterally, the artery is bounded by the muscles which form the boundaries of the popliteal space. Peculiarities in point of division. Occasionally the popliteal artery divides prematurely into its terminal branches ; this division occurs most frequently opposite the knee-joint. Unusual branches. The artery sometimes divides into the anterior tibial and peroneal, the posterior tibial being wanting, or very small. In a single case, the popliteal was found to divide into three branches, the anterior and posterior tibial, and peroneal. Surgical Anatomy. Ligature of the popliteal artery is required in cases of wound of that vessel, but for aneurism of the posterior tibial it is preferable to tie the superficial femoral. The popliteal may be tied in the upper or lower part of its course ; but in the middle of the ham the operation is attended with considerable difficulty, from the great depth of the artery, and from the extreme degree of tension of the lateral boundaries of the space. In order to expose the vessel in the upper part of its course, the patient should be placed in the prone position, with the limb extended. An incision about three inches in length should then be made through the integument, along the posterior margin of the Semimem- branosus, and the fascia lata having been divided, this muscle must be drawn inwards, when