THE SKELETON. 0 from the upper part of the body. The body is of a triangular form; deeper I in front than behind, and prolonged downwards anteriorly so as to overlap the upper and fore part of the adjacent vertebra. It presents in front a median longitudinal ridge, separating two lateral depressions for the attachment of the Longus colli muscle of either side. The odontoid process presents two articulating surfaces; one in front of an oval form, for articulation with the atlas; another behind, for the transverse ligament : the latter frequently encroaching on the sides of the process. The apex is pointed; just below it the process is some- what enlarged, anil presents on either side a rough impression for the attachment of the odontoid or check ligaments, which connect it to the occipital bone; the base of the process, where it is attached to the body, is constricted, so as to prevent displacement from the transverse ligament, which binds it in this situation to the anterior arch of the atlas. .Sometimes, however, this process does become displaced, especially in children, in whom the ligaments are more relaxed : instant death is the result of this accident. The pedicles are broad and strong, especially their anterior extremities, which coalesce with the sides of the body and the root of the odontoid process. The lamina' are thick and strong, and the spinal foramen very large. The superior articular surfaces are round, slightly convex, directed upwards and outwards, and are peculiar in being supported on the IkkIv. ]>cdicles, and transverse processes. The inferior articular surfaces have the same direction as those of the other cervical vertebrae. The superior intervertebral notches are very shallow, and lie behind the articular processes; the inferior in front of them, as in the other cervical vertebra;. The transverse processes are very small, not hi lid, and perforated by the vertebi-al foramen, or foramen for the vertebral artery, winch is directed obliquely upwards and outwards. The spinous procos is of large size, very strong, deeply channelled on its under surface, and presents a bifid tubercular extremity for the attachment of muscles, w hich serve to rotate the head upon the spine. 4.—7th Cervical Vertebra, or Vertebra l'roininens. Betty Seventh Cervical (fig. 4). The most distinctive character of this vertebra is the existence of a very long and prominent spinous pro- cess ; henco the name ' Vertebra prominens.' This process is thick, nearly horizontal in direction, not bifurcated, and has attached to it ; the ligamen'tuin nucha;. The trans- verse process is usually of large size, especially its posterior root; its upper surface has usually a shallow groove, and it seldom pre- sents more than a trice of bifurca- tion at its extremity. The vertebral foramen is sometimes "as large as in the other cervical vertebrae, usually smaller, on one or 1 toth sides, and sometimes wanting. On the left side it occasionally gives passage to the vertebral artery ; more frequently the vertebra] vein traverses it on both sides ; hut the usual arrangement is for both artery and vein t the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical. pass through ('ll Alt ACTKKS OF TIIK DoltSAI. VKKTKBU.E. The bodies of the dorsal vertebra* resemble those in the cervical and lumbar regions at the respective ends of this portion of the spine ; but in the middle