Cranial Nerves. THE Cranial Nerves, nine in number on each side, arise from some part of the cerebro-spinal centre, and are transmitted through foramina in the base of the cranium. They have been named numerically, according to the order in which they pass out of the base of the brain. Other names are also given to them derived from the parts to which they are distributed, or from their functions. Taken in their order, from before backwards, they are as follows :— ist. Olfactory. *Z H / facial (Portio dura). 2nd. Optic. \ ' \ Auditory (Portio mollis). 3rd. Motor oculi. 0[ f Glosso-pharyngeal. 4th. Pathetic. \q 8th. < Pneumogastric (Par vagum). 5th. Trifacial (Trigeminus). L Spinal accessory. 6th. Abducens. 9th. Hypoglossal. If, however, the 7th pair be considered as two, and the 8th pair as three distinct nerves, then their number will be increased to twelve, which is the arrangement adopted by Sommerring. The cranial nerves may be subdivided into four groups, according to the peculiar function possessed by each, viz., nerves of special setise ; nerves of common sensa- tion ; nerves of motion ; and mixed nerves. These groups may be thus arranged :— Nerves of Special Sense. Nerves of Motion. Olfactory. Motor oculi. Optic. Pathetic. Auditory. Part of third division of fifth. Part of Glosso-pharyngeal. Abducens. Lingual or gustatory branch of fifth. Facial. Hypoglossal. Nerves of Common Sensation. Mixed Nerves. Fifth (greater portion). Pneumogastric. Part of glosso-pharyngeal. Spinal accessory. All the cranial nerves are connected to some part of the surface of the brain. This is termed their superficial or apparent origin. But their fibres may, in all cases, be traced deeply into the substance of the organ. This part is called their deep, or real origin* Olfactory Nerve. (Fig. 272, p. 488.) The First, or Olfactory Nerve, the special nerve of the sense of smell, may be regarded as a lobe, or portion of the cerebral substance pushed forward in direct rela- tion with the organ to which it is distributed. It arises by three roots. * The deep origin or point of connection of the cranial nerve with the brain is still, in some instances, a matter of uncertainty. It seems probable that each of the nerves arises from some special centre of grey matter, termed a nucleus : at all events, many of them can he traced to such special nuclei, through which, no doubt, they are connected with other por- tions of the cerebral mass. It has been thought advisable in the text to give only the most modern views as to the deep origin of these nerves, without burdening the student's mind with all the different opinions of anatomists, which have at various times been set forth in regard to the place from which these nerves take their origin. For these recent views, the editor, as stated in a former edition, is indebted to the late Dr. Loekhart Clarke.