ARTICULATIONS. 200 the middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament of the ankle-joint, with the fibres of which it is parallel. The Posterior Calcaneo-Astragaloid Ligament (fig. 145) connects the posterior extremity of the astragalus with the upper contiguous surface of the os calcis• it is a short narrow band, the fibres of which are directed obliquely backwards and inwards. The Interosseous Ligament forms the chief bond of union between the bones. It consists of numerous vertical and oblique fibres, attached by one extremity to the groove between the articulating surface of the astragalus; by the other, to a corresponding depression on the upper surface of the os ealcis. It is very thick and strong, being at least an inch in breadth from side to stele, and serves to unite the os calcis and astragalus solidly together. The Synovial Membranes (fig. 148) are two in number: one for the posterior calcaneo-astragaloid articulation; a second for the anterior calcaneo-astragaloid joint. The latter synovial membrane is continued forwards between the contiguous surfaces of the astragalus and scaphoid bones. The articulations between the scaphoid, cuboid, and three cuneiform are effected by the following ligaments :— The Dorsal Ligaments are small bands of parallel fibres, which pass from each bone to the neighbouring bones with which it articulates. The Plantar Ligaments have the same arrangement on the plantar surface. The Interosseous Ligaments are four in number. They consist of strong trans- verse fibres, which £>ass between the rough non-articular surfaces of adjoining bones. There is one between the sides of the scaphoid and cuboid; a second between the internal and middle cuneiform bones ; a third between the middle and external cuneiform ; and a fourth between the external cuneiform and cuboid. The scaphoid and cuboid, when in contact, present each a small articulating facet, covered with cartilage, and lined either by a separate synovial membrane, or by an offset from the great tarsal synovial membrane. 3. Articulations of the Two Rows of the Tarsus with each other. These may be cqm^eniently divided into three sets. The joint between the os calcis and the cuboid. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the scaphoid. The joint between the astragalus and the scaphoid. The ligaments connecting the os calcis with the cuboid are four in number:— The Superior Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament (fig. 146) is a thin and nai-row fasci- culus, which passes between the contiguous surfaces of the os calcis and cuboid, on the dorsal surface of the joint. The Internal Calcaneo-Cuboid {Interosseous) Ligament (fig. 146) is a short, but thick and strong, band of fibres, arising from the os calcis, in the deep hollow which intervenes between it and the astragalus; and closely blended, at its origin, with the superior calcaneo-scaphoid ligament. It is inserted into the inner side of the cuboid bone. This ligament forms one of the chief bonds of union between the first and second row of the tarsus. The Long Calcaneo-Cuboid (fig. 147), the more superficial of the two plantar ligaments, is the longest of all the ligaments of the tarsus : it is attached to the 2. Articulations of the Second Row op Tarsal Bones. Dorsal. Plantar. Interosseous. Superior Calcaneo-Cuboid. Internal Calcaneo-Cuboid (Interosseous). Long Calcaneo-Cuboid. Short Calcaneo-Cuboid.