ciii THE SKIN. the fasciculi are much finer, and their mode of interlacing close and intricate. The corium varies in thickness, from a quarter of a line to a line and a half, in different parts of the body. Thus it is thicker in the regions ex- posed to pressure, as the palm of the hand and sole of the foot; thicker on the posterior aspect of the body than the front; and on the outer than the inner side of the limbs. In the eyelids, scrotum, and penis it is ex- ceedingly thin and delicate. The skin generally is thicker in the male than in the female, and in the adult than in the child. The areola are occupied by adipose tissue, hair-follicles, and the sudo- riferous and sebaceous glands ; they are the channels by which the vessels and nerves are distributed to the more superficial strata of the corium, and to the papillary layer. Unstriped muscular fibres are found in the superficial layers of the corium, wherever hairs are found; and in the subcutaneous areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, perinamm, and areola? of the nipples. In the latter situations the fibres are arranged in bands, closely reticu- lated, and disposed in superimposed laminae. The papillary layer is situated upon the free surface of the corium ; it consists of numerous small, highly sensitive, and vascular emin- ences, the papillae, which rise perpendicu- larly from its surface, and form the essential element of the organ of touch. The papilla? are conical-shaped emin- ences, having a round or blunted extremity, occasionally divided into two or more parts, and connected by their base with the free surface of the corium. Their average length is about ^-0th of an inch, and they measure at their base about ir-Wth of an inch in diameter. On the general surface of the body, more especially in those parts which are endowed with slight sensi- bility, they are few in number, short, exceedingly minute, and irregularly scattered over the surface ; but in other situations, as upon the palmar surface of the hands and fingers, upon the plantar surface of the feet and toes, and around the nipple, they are long, of large size, closely aggregated together, and arranged in parallel curved lines, forming the elevated ridges