LARGE INTESTINE. The Large Intestine. The large intestine extends from the termination of the ileum to the anus. It is about five feet in length, being one-fifth of the whole extent of the intestinal canal. It is largest at its commencement at the caecum, and gradually diminishes as far as the rectum, where there is a dilatation of considerable size, just above the anus. It differs from the small intestine in its greater size, its more fixed position, and its sacculated form. The large intestine, in its course, describes an arch, which surrounds the convolutions of the small intestine. It commences in the right iliac fossa, in a dilated part, the caecum. It ascends through the right lumbar and hypochondriac regions to the under surface of the liver; passes transversely across the abdomen on the con- fines of the epigastric and umbilical regions, to the left hypochondriac region; de- scends through the left lumbar region to the left iliac fossa, where it becomes convo- luted, and forms the sigmoid flexure ; finally it enters the pelvis, and descends along its posterior wall to the anus. The large intestine is divided into the caecum, colon, and rectum. The Caxum (cmcits, blind) (fig. 372) is the large blind pouch, or cul-de-sac, in which the large intestine commences. It is the most dilated part of the tube, measuring about two and a half inches, both in its vertical and transverse diameters. It is situated in the light iliac fossa, immedi- ately behind the anterior abdominal wall, being retained in its place by the peritoneum, which passes over its anterior surface and sides • its posterior surface being connected by loose areolar tissue with the iliac fascia. Occasionally it is almost completely sur- rounded by peritoneum, which forms a distinct fold, the meso-caecurn, connecting its back part with the iliac fossa. When this fold exists the caecum obtains consider- able freedom of movement. Attached to its lower and back part is the appendix vermiformis, a long, narrow, worm-shaped tube, the rudiment of the lengthened caecum found in all the mammalia except the orang-outang and wombat. The appendix varies from three to six inches in length, its average diameter being about equal to that of a goosequill. It is usually directed upwards and inwards behind the caecum, coiled upon itself, and terminates in a blunt point, being retained in its position by a fold of peritoneum, which sometimes forms a mesentery for it. Its canal is small, and communicates with the caecum by an orifice, which is sometimes guarded with an incomplete valve. Its coats are thick, and its mucous lining furnished with a large number of solitary glands. Ileo-cmcal Valve.—The lower end of the ileum terminates at the inner and back part of the large intestine, opposite the junction of the caecum with the colon. At this point the mucous membrane forms two valvular folds, which project into the large intestine, and are separated from each other by a narrow elongated aperture. This is the ileo-caecal valve (valvula Bauhini). Each fold is semilunar iu form. The upper one, nearly horizontal in direction, is attached by its convex border to the point of junction of the ileum with the colon; the lower segment, to the point of junction of the ileum with the caecum. Their free concave margins project into the intestine, separated from one another by a narrow slit-like aperture, directed trans- u u 2