CXVU1 G EX EE AE AXATOM Y. splitting of the blastoderm. This process has heen accurately follow ed out in birds, in whose ova (meroblastic) the blastoderm only covers a portion of the yolk, and is divided originally into two layers, the low er of which soon splits again into two. so that three separate layers of cells result. In the human embryo also the three layers of which the hlastoderm is ultimately composed are believed to originate in a similar manner, though no direct observations have hitherto been made in mammalia which cover the whole period of the formation of the blastodermic membranes. But in both classes of ova they consist ultimately of three—the external, which used to be called the serous layer, but to which the term epiblast is now more com- monly applied; the internal, the mucous layer, or hypoblast; and the middle, which is believed by most writers to be originally developed by cleavage from the hypoblast, and which is now usually called the mesoblast, formerly the vascular layer. The precise mode of formation of this middle layer is, how ever, by no moans exactly made out. All the layers consist hitherto of nucleated cells, in which up to this time no special arrangement or differentiation is perceptible. Observations on the fowl's egg, however, have led Foster and Balfour to the conclusion that the cells of the epiblast Fio. LXXVI.—Section of a blastoderm at right angles to the long axis of the embryo, near its middle, after eight hours' incubation (from Foster and Balfour). a. Epiblast formed of two layers of cells, n. Mesoblast thickened below tin- primitive groove, o. Hypoblast formed of one layer of flattened cells, pr. Primitive groove. me..Mesoblast cell. M. Formative cells in the so-called seg- mentation or subgermlnal cavity. (The line of separation between the epiblast and mesoblast below the primitive groove is too strongly marked in the figure.; are the direct results of segmentation from the original germ-cell, while those of the hypoblast and mesoblast are derived from certain ' formative cells ' which make their appearance in the yolk-cavity, migrating into it by the help of amoeboid movements after the fashion of white blood-cor- puscles. The epiblast is mainly concerned in the formation of the external cuticle and of the nervous centres. From it proceed till tin- epidermis of the body and all the involutions of the epidermis in the ducts of the glands and of the mammee, the brain, the spinal cord, and the portions of the nose, eve. and ear which are directly formed from the brain. The external layer of the amnion is also formed from the epiblast, and probably a portion of the chorion. The hypoblast is mainly concerned in forming the internal epithelium, viz. that of the whole alimentary passages, except the mouth and a small portion of the rectum near the anus (which are formed by an involution of the integument) ; that of the respiratory tract, which is originally an offset from the alimentary canal ; and the epithelium of till the glandular organs