ORGANS OF SENSE. 59° inner surface is smooth, and lies in contact with the retina. The choroid consists mainly of a dense capillary plexus and of small arteries and veins, carrying the blood to and returning it from this plexus. In consequence of these small arteries and veins being arranged on the outer surface of the capillary network, it is customary to describe the choi-oid as consisting of two layers ; the outermost composed of small arteries and veins, with pigment cells interspersed between them; the innermost consisting of a capillary plexus.* The external layer consists, in part, of the larger branches of the short ciliary arteries which run forwards between the veins before they bend downwards to terminate in the capillaries. This layer is formed, however, principally of veins, which are named, from their distribution, vence vorticosm. They converge to four or five equidistant trunks, which pierce the sclerotic midway between the margin of the cornea and the entrance of the optic nerve. Interspersed between the vessels are lodged dark star-shaped pigment-cells, the fibrous offsets from which, communicating with similar branchings from neighbouring cells, form a delicate network or stroma, which towards the inner surface of the choroid loses its pigmentary character. On 321.—The Veins of the Choroid. (Enlarged.) its outer surface the choroid is covered by a layer of connective tissue, continuous' with the lamina fusca, but separable from it. This has been termed the membrana stipra choroidea and is covered on its external surface with endothelium (Schwalbe). The internal layer consists of an exceedingly fine capillary plexus, formed by the short ciliary vessels, and is known as the tunica Jiuyschiana. The network is close, and finer at the hinder part of the choroid than in front. About half an inch behind the cornea, its meshes become larger, and are continuous with those of the ciliary processes. On the inner surface of this layer is a very thin, structureless mem brane, called the Vitreous membrane; it is closely connected with the stroma of the choroid and separates it from the pigmentary layers of the retina. The ciliary processes should now be examined. They may he exposed, either by detaching the iris from its connection with the ciliary ligament, or by making a transverse section of the globe, and examining them from behind. The Ciliary processes are formed by the plaiting and folding inwards of the layers of the choroid, at its anterior margin, and are received between corresponding foldings of the suspensory ligament of the lens, thus establishing a communication between the choroid and inner tunic of the eye. They are arranged in a circle, behind the * Formerly the choroid was described as consisting of three layers : a third or pigmen- tary membrane being described as belonging to the choroid. Now, however, this membrane, . in consequence of the method of its development, is regarded as a part of the retina, and will be described with that structure.