BONE. lv foramen (situated in most eases near the centre of the shaft), and perforates obliquely the compact substance. This medullary or nutrient artery, usually accompanied by one or two veins, sends branches upwards and downwards, to supply the medullary membrane, which lines the central cavity and the adjoining canals. The ramifications of this vessel anasto- mose with the arteries both of the cancellous and compact tissues. In most of the flat, and in many of the short spongy bones, one or more large aper- tures are observed, which transmit, to the central parts of the bone, vessels corresponding to the medullary arteries and veins. The veins emerge from the long bones in three places (Kolliker). i. By a large vein which accompanies the nutrient artery ; 2. By numerous large Fig. XX.—From a transverse section of the diaphysis of the humerus. Magnified 350 times. Fig. XXI.—Section parallel to from the shaft of the femur. 100 times. the surface Mag-nilied IMMMIHniiiB WBm a. Haversian canals, b. Lacunae, with their canalicnli in the lamellae of these canals, c. Lacunas of the intersti- tial lamella?, rf. Others at the surface of the Haversian systems, with canalicnli going off from one side. . Haversian canals, b. Lacunae seen from the sirle. c. Others seen from the surface in lamella; which are cut horizontally. and small veins at the articular extremities ; 3. By many small veins which arise in the compact substance. In the flat cranial bones the veins are large, very numerous, and run in tortuous canals in the diploic tissue, the sides of the canals being formed of a thin lamella of bone, perforated here and there for the passage of branches from the adjacent cancelli. The veins thus enclosed and supported by the osseous structure have exceed- ingly thin coats; and when the bony structure is divided, they remain patulous, and do not contract in the canals in which they are contained. Hence the constant occurrence of purulent absorption after amputation, in those cases where the stump becomes inflamed, and the cancellous tissue is infiltrated and bathed in pus. Lymphatic vessels have been traced, by Cruikshank, into the substance of bone, and Klein describes them as running in the Haversian canals.