FEMORAL. 4" in a depression, bounded externally by the Vastus internus, internally by the Adductor longus and Adductor magnus. The femoral vein lies on the outer side of the artery, in close apposition with it, and, still more externally, is the internal (long) saphenous nerve. Relations. From above downwards, the femoral artery rests upon the Psoas muscle, which separates it from the margin of the pelvis and capsular ligament of the hip; it is next separated from the Pectineus by the profunda vessels and femoral vein; it then lies upon the Adductor longus; and lastly, upon the tendon of the Adductor magnus, the femoral vein being interposed. To its inner side, it is in relation above, with the femoral vein, and lower down, with the Adductor longus, and Sartorius. To its outer side, the Vastus internus separates it from the femur, in the lower part of its course. The femoral vein, at Poupart's ligament, lies close to the inner side of the artery, separated from it by a thin fibrous partition, but, as it descends, gets behind it, and then to its outer side. Tbe internal saphenous nerve is situated on the outer side of the artery, in the middle third of the thigh, beneath the aponeurotic covering, but not usually within the sheath of the vessels. Small cutaneous nerves cross the front of the sheath. Plan of the Relations of the Femoral Artery. In front. Fascia lata. Branch of anterior crural nerve to vastus internus. Sartorius. Long saphenous nerve. Aponeurotic covering of Hunter's canal. Inner side. f \ Outer side. Femoral vein (at upper part) Adductor longus. Sartorius. Behind. Psoas muscle. Profunda vein. Pectineus muscle. Adductor longus. Femoral vein. Adductor magnus. Peculiarities. Double femoral re-united. Four cases are at present recorded,in which the femoral artery divided into two trunks below the origin of the profunda, and became re-united near the opening in the Adductor magnus, so as to form a single popliteal artery. One of them occurred in a patient operated upon for popliteal aneurism. Change of Position. A similar number of cases have been recorded, in which the femoral artery was situated at the back of the thigh, the vessel being continuous above with the internal iliac, escaping from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen, and ac- companying the great sciatic nerve to the popliteal space, where its division occurred in the usual manner. Position of the Vein. The femoral vein is occasionally placed along the inner side of the artery, throughout the entire extent of Scarpa's triangle; or it may be slit, so that a large vein is placed on each side of the artery for a greater or less extent. Origin of the Prof unda. This vessel occasionally arises from the inner side, and more rarely, from the back of the common trunk; but the more important peculiarity, in a surgical point of view, is that which relates to the height at which the vessel arises from the femoral. In three-fourths of a large number of cases, it arose between one or two inches below Poupart's ligament; in a few cases, the distance was less than an inch; more rarely, opposite the liga- ment; and in one case, above Poupart's ligament, from the external iliac. Occasionally, the distance between the origin of the vessel and Poupart's ligament exceeds two inches, and in one case it was found to be as much as four inches. 'Surgical Anatomy. Compression of the femoral artery, which is constantly requisite in amputations and other operations on the lower limb, is most effectually made immediately below Poupart's ligament. In this situation the artery is very superficial, and is merely separated from the margin of the acetabulum and front of the head of the femur, by the Psoas muscle; so that the surgeon, by means of his thumb, or a compressor, may effectually Vastus internus. Femoral vein (at lower part).