THE PHARYNX. 635 potassium (over 2 parts), and a trace of fat. The uses of the saliva are to keep the mouth moist, and thus facilitate the movements of the tongue in speaking and mastication, to dissolve the sapid substances and render them capable of exciting the nerves of taste, to lubricate the food and make it into a mass fit for swallowing, and to convert the starch of the food into dextrine and grape sugar, the latter functions being due to the ptyalin, which can be proved to have this property when isolated. The nerves supplied to the salivary glands are branches of the Fifth, the Sympa- thetic, and the Facial. The respective functions of these nerves have been elucidated by dividing them in some of the lower animals and stimulating the cut ends. Thus in the dog, when the submaxillary gland is operated on, the Chorda tympani having been exposed and stimulated, a great dilatation of the arteries takes place, the pulsation may be communicated to the veins, and there is a large flow of watery saliva. When the Chorda tympani is divided, the flow of saliva is arrested. If the divided (distal) end be now stimulated, the secretion is again increased. The function then of the Chorda tympani branch of the facial is to diminish the blood-pressure, increase the flow of blood, and excite the secretion of watery saliva. On the contrary, stimulation of the sympathetic causes a great contraction of the arteries and a flow of very viscid saliva. If the sympathetic be cut, or the upper ganglion extirpated, the flow of saliva is increased. If both nerves be divided a copious and continuous flow of watery saliva ensues {paralytic secretion). If the gustatory nerve be divided, and its central end stimulated, the same effects are produced as by stimulation of the Chorda tympani. So that the gustatory nerve is regarded as the afferent nerve in the reflex act, and the Chorda as the efferent. Mucous Glands. Besides the salivary glands proper, numerous other glands are found in the mouth. They appear to secrete mucus only, which serves to keep the mouth moist during the intervals of the salivary secretion, and which is mixed with that secretion in swallowing. Many of these glands are found at the posterior part of the dorsum of the tongue, behind the circumvallate papillae, and also along its margins as far forward as the apex.* Others lie around and in the tonsil between its crypts, and a large number in the soft palate. These glands are of the ordinary compound racemose type. The secretion is more viscid than the saliva, and is distinguished from it by the presence of mucous globules and the absence of ptyalin. Its mechanical uses, how- ever, seem identical with or subordinate to those of the saliva. The Pharynx. The Pharynx is that part of the alimentary canal which is placed behind the nose, mouth, and larynx. It is a musculo-meinbranous sac, somewhat conical in form, with the base upwards, and the apex downwards, extending from the under surface of the skull to the cricoid cartilage in front, and the fifth cervical vertebra behind. The pharynx is about four inches and a half in length, and broader in the transverse than in the antero-posterior diameter. Its greatest breadth is opposite the cornua of the hyoid bone; its narrowest point at its termination in the oesophagus. It is limited, above by the basilar process of the occipital bone; below, it is continuous with the oesophagus ; posteriorly, it is connected by loose areolar tissue with the cervical portion of the vertebral column, and the Longi colli and Recti capitis antici muscles; anteriorly, it is incomplete, and is attached in succession to the internal pterygoid plate, the pterygo-maxillary ligament, the lower jaw, the tongue, hyoid bone, and larynx; laterally, it is connected to the styloid processes and their muscles, * It has been recently shown by Ebner that many of these glands open into the trenches around the circumvallate papilise, and that their secretion is more watery than that of ordi- nary mucous glands. He supposes that they assist in the more rapid distribution of the substance to he tasted, over the region where the special apparatus of the sense of taste is situated.