5i5 FIFTH. MECKEL'S GANGLION. labii superioris, and ai-e distributed to the integument and muscles of the upper lip, t the mucous membrane of the mouth, and labial glands. All these branches are joined, immediately beneath the orbit, by filaments from the facial nerve, forming an intricate plexus, the infra-orbital. Spheno-Palatine Ganglion. (Fig. 287.) The sphenopalatine ganglion (Meckel's), the largest of the cranial ganglia, is deeply placed in the spheno-maxillary fossa, close to the spheno-palatine foramen. It is triangular or heart-shaped, of a reddish-grey colour, and is situated just below the superior maxillary nerve as it crosses the fossa. The two spheno-palatine branches of this nerve descend to the ganglion ; the fibres derived from them, for the most part, pass in front of the ganglion as they proceed to their destination in the palate and nasal fossa, and are not incorporated in the ganglionic mass; some few of the fibres, however, enter the ganglion, constituting its sensory root. Like the other ganglia of the fifth nerve, it possesses a motor, a sensory, and a sympathetic root. Its motor root is derived from the facial, through the Vidian ; its sensory root from the fifth; and its sympathetic root from the carotid plexus, through the Vidian. Its branches are divisible into four groups : ascending, which pass to the orbit; descending, to the palate; internal, to the nose J and posterior branches, to the pharynx. The ascending branches are two or three delicate filaments, which enter the orbit by the spheno-maxillary fissure, and supply the periosteum. Arnold describes and delineates these branches as ascending to the optic nerve; one, to the sixth nerve (BSck); and one to the ophthalmic ganglion (Tiedemann). The descending or palatine branches are distributed to the roof of the mouth, the soft palate, tonsil, and lining membrane of the nose. They are almost a direct con- tinuation of the spheno-palatine branches of the superior maxillary nerve, and are three in number : anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior, or large palatine nerve, descends through the posterior palatine canal, emerges upon the hard palate, at the posterior palatine foramen, and passes