ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. 706 The trachea is composed of imperfect cartilaginous rings, fibrous membrane, mus- cular fibres, longitudinal yellow elastic fibres, mucous membrane, and glands. The Cartilages vary from sixteen to twenty in number : each forms an imperfect ring, which surrounds about two-thirds of the cylinder of the trachea, being imperfect behind, where the tube is completed by fibrous membrane. The cartilages are placed horizontally above each other, separated by narrow membranous intervals. They measure about two lines in depth, and half a line in thickness. Their outer surfaces are flattened, but internally they are convex, from being thicker in the middle than at the margins. The cartilages are inclosed in an elastic fibrous membrane, which forms a double layer; one layer, the thicker of the two, passing over the outer surface of the ring, the other over the inner surface : at the upper and lower margins of the carti- lages these two layers blend together to form a single membrane which connects the rings one with another. They are thus, as it were, imbedded in the membrane. In the space behind, between the extremities of the rings, the membrane forms a single distinct layer. The peculiar cartilages are the first and the last. The first cartilage is broader than the rest, and sometimes divided at one end; it is connected by fibrous membrane with the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, with which, or with the succeeding cartilage, it is sometimes blended. The last cartilage is thick and broad in the middle, in consequence of its lower border being prolonged into a triangular hook-shaped process, which curves down- wards and backwards between the two bronchi. It terminates on each side in an imperfect ring, which encloses the commencement of the bronchi. The cartilage above the last is somewhat broader than the rest at its centre. Two or more of the cartilages often unite, partially or completely, and are sometimes bifurcated at their extremities. They are highly elastic, and seldom ossify, even in advanced life. In the right bronchus the cartilages vary in number from six to eight; in the left, from nine to twelve. They are shorter and narrower than those of the trachea. The Muscular Fibres are disposed in two layers, longitudinal and transverse. The longitudinal fibres are the most external, and arise by minute tendons from the inner surfaces of the ends of the tracheal cartilages, and from the fibrous membrane. The transverse fibres (Trachealis muscle, Todd and Bowman), the most internal, form a thin layer, which extends transversely between the ends of the cartilages and the intervals between them at the posterior part of the trachea. The muscular fibres are of the unstriped variety. The elastic fibres form a complete lining to the entire cylinder of the trachea, beneath the mucous membrane : they are most abundant at the posteiior part of the tube between the extremities of the rings, where they are collected into distinct longi- tudinal bundles, and are especially numerous about the bifurcation of the trachea. They may be traced downwards as a continuous membrane to the ultimate ramifica- tions of the bronchial tubes. The Mucous Membrane contains a large amount of lymphoid tissue. It presents a well-marked basement membrane, supporting several layers of epithelial cells, the superficial layer being columnar ciliated. It is continuous above with that of the larynx, and below with that of the lungs. The Tracheal Glands are found in great abundance at the posterior part of the trachea. They are small, flattened, ovoid bodies, placed upon the outer surface of the fibrous layer, each furnished with an excretory duct, which pierces the fibrous and muscular layers, and opens on the surface of the mucous membrane. Some glands of smaller size are also found at the sides of the trachea, between the layers of fibrous tissue connecting the rings, and others immediately beneath the mucous coat. The secretion from these glands serves to lubricate the inner surface of the trachea. Vessels and Nerves.—The trachea is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid arteries. The veins terminate in the thyroid venous plexus. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric and its recurrent branches, and from the sympathetic. Surgical Anatomy.—The air-passage may be opened in three different situations : through the crico-thyroid membrane Qaryngotomy), through the cricoid cartilage and upper ring of the trachea (larynyo-tracheotomy), or through the trachea below the isthmus of the thyroid