THE BLADDER. 735 and is reflected from this point and from the sides, on to the abdominal and pelvic ■walls. The muscular coat consists of two layers of unstriped muscular fibre, an external layer, composed of longitudinal fibres, and an internal layer of circular fibres. The longitudinal fibres are most distinct on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the organ. They arise in front from the anterior ligaments of the bladder, from the neck of the bladder, and, in the male, from the adjacent portion of the prostate gland. They spread out, and form a plexiform mesh, on the anterior surface of the bladder, being continued over the posterior surface and base of the organ to the. neck, where they are inserted into the prostate in the male, and into the vagina in the female. Other longitudinal fibres arise in the male from the sides of the prostate, and spread out upon the sides of the bladder, intersecting with one another. The circular fibres are very thinly and irregularly scattered on the body of the organ ; but towards its lower part, round the cervix and commencement of the urethra, they are disposed as a thick circular layer, forming the sphincter vesicae, which is continuous with the muscular fibres of the prostate gland. Two bands of oblique fibres, originating behind the orifices of the ureters, con- verge to the back part of the prostate gland, and are inserted, by means of a fibrous process, into the middle lobe of that organ. They are the muscles of the ureters, described by Sir C. Bell, who supposed that during the contraction of the bladder they served to retain the oblique direction of the ureters, and so prevent the reflux of the urine into them. J. B. Pettigrew gives the following results at which lie has arrived by his exquisite dissections of the muscular fibres of the bladder and prostate {Phil. Trans. 1867). The muscular fibres of the bladder are arranged spirally, forming figure-of-8 loops, the superficial more longitudinal or drawn out, the deeper more circular or flattened. This arrangement has been aptly compared to that of india-rubber rings through which a stick has been passed, and which are their wound twice round the stick and drawn out into figures of 8, some (the exterior) in very elongated loops, so as to approach the longitudinal direction, others (the central) in very flattened loops, so as to be nearly circular. The external fibres, which are nearly longitudinal, are in four sets—an anterior and posterior, and a right and left lateral; the latter accessory and less fully developed. The fibres are arranged in seven strata, three external, three internal, and a middle, pursuing well-marked directions in each. These layers, however, are very imperfect, ' the fibres rarely, if ever, occupying precisely the same plane and running exactly parallel. They, moreover, split up, and become fused with each other, with corresponding or homologous fibres, and with fibres which are either superimposed or underlie them.' The fibres of the first and seventh layers are the most feebly developed. The crossings or decussations of the loops occur at different distances in pro- ceeding from before backwards, this crossing forming a kind of spiral line. The loops are directed towards and embrace the urachus and urethra respectively. The terminal expan- sions of the loops in the other layers contribute to the formation of the fourth layer, particularly towards the base and apex, which are, therefore, thicker than the other parts. The aggregation of the loops towards the apex forms the sphincter. The longitudinal, slightly oblique, truly oblique, and nearly circular fibres of the successive layers are all continued into the prostatic urethra, which therefore may be regai'ded as a continuation of the bladder ante- riorly. The fibres of the cervix are traceable into the verumontanum, which Pettigrew believes to act as a valve to the urethra, falling down into the tube and obstructing it when the muscle of the bladder is not acting, and raised up, so as to stand erect in the middle line, and thus to allow the flow of urine, when the fibres contract. The varying obliquity and spiral arrange- ment of the seven layers establishes a close analogy between the disposition of the muscular fibres of the bladder and those of the heart, as described by Pettigrew in Phil. Trans. 1864 ; and he hints at similar structure in the stomach and uterus. The cellular coat consists of a layer of areolar tissue, connecting together the muscular and mucous coats, and intimately united to the latter. The mucous coat is thin, smooth, and of a pale rose colour. It is continuous through the ureters with the lining membrane of the uriniferous tubes, and below with that of the urethra. It is connected loosely to the muscular coat by a layer of areolar tissue, excepting at the trigone, where its adhesion is more close. It is provided with a few mucous follicles; and numerous small racemose glands, lined with columnar epithelium, exist near the neck of the organ. The epithelium cover- ing it is of the transitional variety, consisting of a superficial layer of polyhedral,