STRUCTURE OF THE HEART. The general result of these investigations may be very briefly stated as follows. In the left ventricle the fibres of the first or most external layer are continuous with those of the seventh or most internal, those of the second with the sixth, and those of the third with the fifth, while the fourth or central layer appears to be single. The general direction of the fibres of the external layer is nearly vertical, but in- clining somewhat from left to l ight as they run downwards ; the direction of the fibres of the internal layer is just the reverse, nearly vertical but running upwards from left to right; those of the second layer run more obliquely downwards from left to right, and those of the sixth with a corresponding obliquity in the reversed directions. The obliquity of the fibres of the third layer is greater ; in fact, they approach the horizontal, as do those of the fifth in the reversed direction, while the fibres of the fourth layer run pretty nearly horizontal. The thickness of the layers increases from without inwards, so that the fourth layer, which is the middle in order of sequence, lies nearer the outer than the inner surface of the ventricular wall. The fibres of the external or superficial layer arise, as a rule, from the auriculo-ventricular rings and from the fibrous rings surrounding the aorta, but a few of them are con- tinued beneath the rings into the columnse carnese.* They curve round at the apex in a spiral, which forms the whorl or vortex, those from the anterior surface of the heart curving round to enter the apex posteriorly, and vice versd. From the apex they are traced up into the seventh layer, which is much thicker, and from which the musculi papillares and colunmas carneaa are chiefly formed. The apex of the heart is formed exclusively of the fibres of this first layer (or first and seventh), so that, when it is removed, the ventricle is opened. And the successive layers terminate further and further from the apex, an arrangement which has led to their fibres being de- scribed as shorter, which Pettigrew doubts, attributing the shortness of the layers to the different direction of the fibres, not to any difference in length in the individual fibres. Since the deeper layers do not descend to the apex, this is the thinnest part of the ventricle, measuring only |th of an inch in thickness even in the heart of an ox. The fibres of the deeper layers are not connected with the auriculo-ventricular rings, but pass below them, each layer terminating a little below the more superficial layer which wraps round it, though the difference in this respect is not so great as in their depth towards the apex. The fibres of the first layer pass across the septum from one ventricle to the other, an arrangement particularly well seen at the back of the heart, where there is a set of transverse fibres described by Pettigrew as the ' hinge-like fibres' of the back of the heart, and the three subjacent layers also take part in the formation of both ventricles; but when the fourth layer is removed, the two ventricles are entirely severed from each other posteriorly. The septum is formed of the fibres of both ventricles applied to each other. The general arrangement of the fibres of the right ventricle is the same as that of the left, but the external fibres do not pass in to be. continuous with the internal at a single point—the apex—but all along the anterior coronary groove. Its fibres are more delicate than those of the left, and it is regarded by Pettigrew as formed out of the left ventricle by a kind of reflection inwards of the wall of the single cavity of which the ventricles consist at one period of foetal life (see Introduction). He points out that the heait at that period may be supposed to be represented by an open tube formed of spiral fibres. If, now, a portion of this tube or cylinder were pushed down to meet the opposite wall, to which the fibres of the reflected portion adhere, and with which they coalesce, there would be formed an offset from the common ventricular cavity, formed partly of common and partly of special fibres, as is the case in the heart. At this early period the outer layers are not formed, and the apex is still unclosed. Their formation closes in the apex and completes the walls of the ventricles. If this is the case the septum must be formed of two elements or sets of fibres, one proper to * 'It is a great mistake to imagine that all the fibres of the ventricles arise from the auriculo-ventricular tendinous rings, the fact being that, with the exception of the fibres of the first and seventh layers, they are continuous beneath them.1—Pettigrew, op. cit. p. 456,