THE NERVES. lxxxvii with respect to minute details. They are usually and naturally studied in the sensory and motor nerves separately. Sensory nerves sometimes terminate in minute plexuses in the subcuta- neous or suhmucous areolar tissue. Dr. Sharpey says that he has seen the ultimate fibres of these minute plexuses come into close contact with the connective-tissue corpuscles, but has not been able to trace any distinct con- nection between them. Frey has lately described and figured a large number of microscopic ganglia on this submucous nervous plexus. Similar ganglia were long ago described by J. Midler in the corpora cavernosa, and they may apparently be met with in many other parts, as in Meissner's plexus (fig. 376, p. 665). The white substance of Schwann and the tubular sheath usually dis- appear as the nerve approaches its termination, leaving only the axis- cylinder invested by its proper basement-membrane, on which nuclei can be seen at intervals, and in many cases the axis-cylinder itself breaks up into the primitive fibrils. In some parts, however, the fibres appear to be enclosed up to their termination in a sheath which is either a prolonga- tion of the perineurium, or a continuation of the neurilemma. The differ- ences of opinion prevailing on the question of the ultimate distribution of the nerve-fibres depend on their extreme delicacy and the consequent great difficulty of following individual fibres in continuity. Hence what some observers describe as a free end in which the nerve terminates, others regard as merely a bending of the fibre where it becomes lost to sight, or a spot where it is lost sight of in consequence of the power used being too low, or from difficulty in focussing. These ultimate fibres, it should be remembered, are structureless, and can therefore only be recognised positively as nervous by their continuity with a nerve of more complex structure. In the papillae of the skin, or mucous membrane, and on the surface of various membranes (conjunctiva, mesentery, &c), three different kinds of terminal organs have been found connected with the nerves ; viz., the end- bulbs of Krause, the tactile corpuscles of Rudolph Wagner, and the Pacinian corpuscles. The end-bulbs of Krause are small capsules of connective tissue, in which nuclei can be detected by reagents, and in which one or more nerve- fibrils terminate either in a coiled plexiform mass or in a bulbous extremity. They have been described as occurring in the conjunctiva, the mucous membrane of the mouth, and the surface of the glans penis and glans clito- ridis.* The tactile corpuscles of Wagner (fig. LI.) are described by him as oval- shaped bodies, made up of superimposed saccular laminae, presenting some resemblance to a miniature fir-cone, and he regarded them as directly con- cerned in the sense of touch. Kolliker considers that the central part of the papillae generally consists of a connective tissue more homogeneous than that of the outer part, surrounded by a sort of sheath of elastic fibres, and he believes that these corpuscles are merely a variety of this structure. The nerve-fibres, according to this observer, run up in a waving course to the corpuscle, not penetrating it, but forming two or three coils round it, and finally join together in loops. * Krause, Die terminalen Kurperchen, i860. Anatomische (Jntersuchunaen. 1861