liv GENERAL ANATOMY. merits are attached to the bone, the periosteum is incorporated with them. It consists of two layers closely united together : the outer one formed chiefly of connective tissue, containing occasionally a few fat-cells; the inner one, of elastic fibres of the finer kind, forming dense membranous networks, which can be again separated into several layers (Kolliker). In young bones the periosteum is thick, and very vascular, and is intimately connected at either end of the bone with the epiphysal cartilage, but less closely with the shaft, from which it is separated by a layer of soft blastema, containing a number of granular corpuscles, or 4 osteoblasts,' in which ossification proceeds on the exterior of the young bone. Later in life the periosteum is thinner, less vascular, and more closely connected with the adjacent bone, this adhesion growing stronger as age advances. The periosteum serves as a nidus for the ramification of the vessels previous to their distribution in the bone ; hence the liability of bone to exfoliation or necrosis, when denuded of this membrane by injury or disease. Fine nerves and lymphatics, which generally accompany the arteries, may also be demonstrated in the periosteum. The marrow differs in composition at different periods of life, and in different bones. In young bones it is a transparent reddish fluid, of tenacious consistence, free from fat; and contains numerous roundish nucleated cells as well as the ' giant cells' to be described presently (see p. lxii). In the shafts of adult long bones, the marrow is of a yellow colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 96' fat, 1 areolar tissue and vessels, and 3 of fluid with extractive matters; whilst, in the fiat and short bones, in the articular ends of the long bones, in the bodies of the vertebrae, in the base of the cranium, and in the sternum and ribs, it is of a red colour, and contains, in 100 parts, 75 water and 25 solid mater, consisting of albumen, fibrin, extractive matter, salts, and a mere trace of fat. The red marrow is said by Kolliker to consist of a small quantity of areolar tissue and numerous medullary cells, together with some fat-cells and a large quantity of fluid. These medullary cells, or ' marrow cells,' resemble in appearance the white corpuscles of the blood, and, like them, possess amoeboid move- ments. Occasionally they may be seen to possess a slightly pinkish hue, and it has been stated by Neumann that they are then in a transitional stage between marrow cells and red blood-corpuscles, and that one of the sources of blood-globules is the marrow of the spongy bones. Giant cells (myelo- plaques) are also to be found in both sorts of adult marrow. Vessels of Bone.—The blood-vessels of bone are very numerous. Those of the compact tissue are derived from a close and dense network of vessels, ramifying in the periosteum. From this membrane, vessels pass into the minute orifices in the compact tissue, running through the canals which traverse its substance. The cancellous tissue is supplied in a similar way, but by a less numerous set of larger vessels, which, perforating the outer compact tissue, are distributed to the cavities of the spongy portion of the bone, in the long bones, numerous apertures may be seen at the ends near the articular surfaces, some of which give passage to the arteries referred to; but the most numerous and largest apertures are for the veins of the cancellous tissue which run separately from the arteries. The medullary canal in the shafts of th( long bones is supplied by one large artery (or sometimes more), which enters the bone at the nutrient