THE ARTERIES. xciii longitudinal elastic networks which are very fine in the lamellae, immediately beneath the epithelium, but increase in thickness from within outwards. The internal and middle coats are separated by either a dense elastic reticulated coat, or a true fenestrated membrane. The middle coat is distinguished from the inner by its colour, and by the transverse arrangement of its fibres, in contradistinction to the longi- tudinal direction of those of the inner coat. In the largest arteries this coat is of" great thickness, of a yellow colour, and highly elastic; it diminishes in thickness and becomes redder in colour as the arteries become smaller; becomes very thin, and finally disappears. In small arteries this coat is purely muscular, consisting of muscular fibre-cells (fig. XXXV.), united to form lamellae which vary in number according to the size of the artery, the very small arteries having only a single layer, Fig. LVI. An artery from the mesentery of a child, "062"', and b, vein, ■067"' in diameter, treated with acetic acid and magnified 350 times, o. Tunica adventitia, with elongated nuclei. /3. Nuclei of the contractile fibre-cells of the tunica media, seen partly from the surface, partly apparent in transverse section, y. Nuclei of the epithelial cells. S. Elastic longitudinal fibrous coat. and those not larger than of a line in diameter, three or four layers. In arteries of medium size this coat becomes thicker in proportion to the size of the vessel; its layers of muscular tissue are more numerous, and intermixed with numerous fine elastic fibres which unite to form broad- meshed networks. In the larger vessels, as the femoral, superior mesen- teric, coeliac axis, external iliac, brachial, and popliteal arteries, the elastic fibres unite to form lamellae, which alternate with the layers of muscular fibre. In the largest arteries the muscular tissue is only slightly de- veloped, and forms about one-third or one-fourth of the whole substance of the middle coat; this is especially the case in the aorta, and trunk of the pulmonary artery, in which the individual cells of the muscular layer are imperfectly formed; while in the carotid, axillary, iliac, and subclavian arteries the muscular tissue of the middle coat is more developed. The elastic lamellae are well marked, may amount to fifty or sixty in number, and alternate regularly with the layers of muscular fibre. They are most