624 OBGANS OF DIGESTION. 343.—Vertical Section of a Molar Tooth. Crown any 344.—Vertical Section of a Bicus- pid Tooth. (Magnified.) Crown The solid portion of the tooth consists of three distinct structures, viz. ivory (tooth-bone, or dentine), which forms the larger portion of the tooth; enamel, which covers the exposed part, or crown; and the cortical substance, or cement (crusta petrosa), which is disposed as a thin layer on the surface of the fang. The Ivory, or dentine (fig. 344), forms the principal mass of a tooth; in its central part is the cavity enclosing the pulp. It is a modification of the osseous tissue, from which it differs, however, in structure and chemical composition. On examination with the microscope, it is seen to consist of a number of minute wavy and branching tubes, having distinct parietes. They are called the dental tubuli, and are em- bedded in a dense homogeneous substance, the intertubular tissue. The dental tubuli are placed parallel with one another, and open at their inner ends into the pulp cavity. They pursue a wavy and undulating course towards the periphery. The direction of these tubes varies; they are vertical in the upper portion of the crown, oblique in the neck and upper part of the root, and towards the lower part of the root they are inclined downwards. The tubuli, at their commence- ment, are about ^-Vtr 01 an incn *n diameter; in their course they divide and subdivide dichoto- mously, so as to give to the cut surface of the dentine a striated appearance. From the sides of the tubes, especially in the fang, ramifications of extreme minuteness are given off, which join together in loops in the intertubular substance, or terminate in small dilatations, from which branches are given off. Near the periphery of the dentine, the finer ramifications of the tubuli terminate in a somewhat similar manner. In the fang these rami- fications occasionally pass into the crusta petrosa. The dental tubuli have comparatively thick walls, and contain slender cylindrical prolongations from the cells of the pulp tissue, first described by Mr. Tomes, and named Tomes's fibres or dentinal fibres. Th ese dentinal fibres are analogous to the soft contents of the canaliculi of bone. Between Tomes's fibres and the ivory of the canals, there is an elastic homo- geneous membrane which resists the action of acids, the dentinal sheath of Neumann. The intertubular substance is translucent, finely granular, and contains the chief part of the earthy matter of the dentine. After the earthy matter has been removed by steeping a tooth in weak acid, the animal basis remaining is described by Henle as consisting of bundles of pale, granular, flattened fibres running parallel with the tubes; but by Mr. Nasmyth as consisting of a mass of brick-shaped cells surrounding the tubules. By Czermak and Mr. Salter it is supposed to consist of laminae which run parallel with the pulp cavity, across the direction of the tubes. A section of dentine often displays a series of irregular cavities, ' the interglobular spaces,' which are filled up by a transparent soft material, and are believed to be the result of imperfect calcification of the fibres of the dentine. They have received their name from the fact that they are surrounded by minute nodules or globules of dentine. They are usually most conspicuous in the neighbourhood of the cement. The ' granular layer' of Purkinje, situated on the outer surface of the dentine, is formed by a collection of these spaces of smaller size (fig. 347). The section of the dentine is marked by a series of somewhat parallel lines—the ' incremental lines' of Salter—produced by the curving of the dentinal tubuli during the growth of the tooth. —- Fang