PARIETAL BONE. 23 Borders. The superior extends on each side from the superior to the lateral angle, is deeply serrated for articulation with the parietal bone, and forms, by this union, the lambdoid suture. The inferior border extends from the lateral to the inferior angle ; its upper half is rough, and articulates with the mastoid por- tion of the temporal, forming the masto-occipital suture : the inferior half articu- lates with the petrous portion of the temporal, forming the petro-occipital suture; these two portions are separated from one another by the jugular process. In front of this process is a deep notch, which, with a similar one on the petrous portion of the temporal, forms the foramen lacerum posterius. This notch is occasionally subdivided into two parts by a small process of bone, and it sometimes presents an aperture at its upper part, the internal opening of the posterior condyloid foramen. Structure. The occipital bone consists of two compact laminae, called the outer and inner tables, having between them the diploic tissue : this bone is especially thick at the ridges, protuberances, condyles, and anterior part of the basilar process; whilst at the bottom of the fossae, especially the inferior, it is thin, semi- transparent, and destitute of diploe. Development (fig. 24). The occipital bone has four centres of development: one for the posterior or occi- pital part, which is formed in , membrane ; one for the basi-/ lar portion, and one for each, condyloid portion, which are formed in cartilage. The centre for the occipi- tal portion appears about the tenth week of fcetal life; and consists, according to Blandin and Cruvelhier, of a small oblong plate which appears in the situation of the occi- pital protuberance.* The con- dyloid portions then ossify, and lastly the basilar- portion. At birth, the bone consists of four parts, separate from one another, the occipital portion being fissured in the direction indicated in the plate above. At about the fourth year, the occipital and the two condyloid pieces join ; and about the sixth year, the bone consists of a single piece. At a later period, between the eighteenth and twenty-fifth years, the occipital and sphenoid become united, forming a single bone. Articulations. With six bones : two parietal, two temporal, sphenoid, and atlas. Attachment of Muscles. To the superior curved line are attached the Occipito- frontalis, Trapezius, and Sterno-cleido-mastoid.t To the space between the curved lines, the Complexus, Splenius capitis, and Obliquus superior; to the inferior curved line, and the space between it and the foramen magnum, the Rectus posticus major'and minor; to the transverse process, the Rectus lateralis; and to the basilar process, the Rectus anticus major and minor, and Superior Constrictor of the pharynx. The Parietal Bones. The Parietal Bones [paries, a wall) form by their union the sides and roof of the skull. Each bone is of an irregular quadrilateral form, and presents for examination two surfaces, four borders, and four angles. * Beclard considers this segment to have four centres of ossification, arranged in pairs, two above and two below the curved lines, and Meckel describes eight, four of which correspond in situation with those above described : of the other four, two are placed in juxtaposition, at the upper angle of the bone, and the remaining two, one at each side, in the lateral angles. t To these the Biventer cervicis should be added, if it is regarded as a separate muscle. 24.—Development of Occipital Bone. By Four Centres.