494 NERVOUS SYSTEM. descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, where it joins with the pia mater through the transverse fissure. In structure, it consists of minute and highly vascu- lar villous processes, composed of large round corpuscles, containing, besides a central nucleus, several yellowish granules and fat molecules, and covered by a single layer of flattened epithelium. The arteries of the choroid plexus enter the ventricle at the descending cornu, and, after ramifying through its substance, send branches into the substance of the brain. The veins of the choroid plexus terminate in the venae (laleni. The corpus Jimbriatum {taenia, hippocampi) is a narrow, white, tapedike band, situated immediately behind the choroid plexus. It is the lateral edge of the posterior pillar of the fornix, and is attached along the inner border of the hippocampus major 275.—Transverse vertical section of the Brain, through the fore part of the Foramen Magnum, looked at from the front. After Hirschfeld and Leveille\ 1. Corpus callosum in relation with the falx and the cerebral hemispheres. 2. Ventricle of the corpus callosum. 3. Lateral Ventricles. 4. Cornu Ammonis, white externally and grey internally. 6. Cerebellum, separated from the cerebrum by the tentorium. e. Section through the corpora quadrigemina, aqueduct of Sylvius, and pons Varolii. 7. Medulla oblongata with the vertebral arteries and the anterior spinal branch in relation with it. 8. Auditory nerve, passing into the meatus auditorius internus. 9. Pneumogastric nerve passing through the posterior lacerated foramen. 10. Ninth nerve, passing through the anterior condyloid foramen. 11, 12. Grey and white substance of the convolutions. The fibres of the corpus callosum are shown radiating through the White to the grey substance. as it descends into the middle horn of the lateral ventricle. It may be traced as far as the pes hippocampi. The optic thalamus and fornix will be described when more completely exposed, in a later stage of the dissection of the brain. The middle cornu should now be exposed, throughout its entire extent, by introducing the little finger gentlv into it, and cutting outwards along the finger through the substance of the hemisphere, which should be removed, to an extent sufficient to expose the entire cavity. The middle, or descending cornu, the largest of the three, traverses the middle lobe of the brain, forming in its course a remarkable curve round the back of the optic thalamus. It passes, at first, backwards, outwards, and downwards, and then