ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 670 through the thin wall of the vein on which they rest, arranged in the form of a tesselated pavement, the centre of each polygonal space presenting a minute aperture, the mouth of a sublobular vein (fig. 379). Each lobule is composed of a mass of cells ijiepatic cells), surrounded by a dense capillary plexus, composed of vessels which penetrate from the circumference to the centre of the lobule, and terminate in a single straight vein, which runs through its centre, to open at its base into one of the radicles of the hepatic vein. Between the cells are also the minute commencements of the bile-ducts. Therefore, in the lobule we have all the essentials of a secreting gland; that is to say, (1) cells, by which the secretion is formed; (2) blood-vessels, in close relation with the cells, containing the blood from which the secretion is derived; and (3) ducts, by which the secretion, when formed, is carried away. Each of these structures will have to be further considered. 1. The hepatic cells are of more or less spheroidal form; but may be rounded, flattened, or many-sided from mutual compression. They vary in size from the To-ff o- 380. H. Longitudinal section of an hepatic vein. a. Ym- tion of the canal from which the vein lias been removed, b. Orifices of ultimate twigs of the vein (sublobular), situated in the centre of the lobules. After Kiernan. Longitudinal section of a small portal vein and canal, alter Kiernan. a. Portions of the canal from which the vein lias been removed, b. Side of the portal vein in contact with the canal, e. The side of Hie vein which is separated from the canal by the hepatic artery and duct, with areolar tissue (Ulisson's capsule). </. Internal surface of the portal vein, through which are seen the out- lines of the lobules and the openings, c, of the interlobular veins. /'. Vaginal veins of Kiernan. g. Hepatic artery. /(. Hepatic duct. to the TrrjVo- of an inch in diameter. They consist of a honeycomb network (Klein) without any cell-wall, and contain one or sometimes two distinct nuclei. In the nucleus is a highly refracting nucleolus with granules. Embedded in the honeycomb network arenumerous yellow particles, thecolouring matter of the bile, and oil-globules. The cells adhere together by their surfaces so as to form rows, which radiate from the centre to the circumference of the lobules. As stated above, they are the chief agents in the secretion of the bile. 2. The Blood-vessels.—-The blood in the capillary plexus, around the liver cells, is brought to the liver principally by the portal vein, but also to a certain extent by the hepatic artery. For the sake of clearness, the distribution of the blood derived from the hepatic artery may be considered first. The hepatic artery entering the liver at the transverse fissure, with the portal vein and hepatic duct, ramifies with these vessels through the portal canals. It gives off vaginal branches which ramify in the capsule of Glisson, and appear to be destined chieiiy for the nutrition of the coats of the large vessels, the ducts and the investing membranes of the liver. It also gives off capsular branches which reach the surface also gives on capsular brandies ay