PORTAL SYSTEM. 4-19 of the colon, a part of the intestine in which fascal accumulation is common; this circumstance, as well as the indirect communication of the vessel with the inferior vena cava, may serve to explain the more frequent occurrence of varicocele on the left side. The ovarian veins are analogous to the. spermatic in the male; they form a plexus near the ovary, and in the broad ligament and Fallopian tube, communi- cating with the uterine plexus. They terminate as in the male. Valves are occasionally found in these veins. These vessels, like the uterine veins, become much enlarged during pregnancy. The renal veins are of large size, and placed in front of the renal arteries.* The left is longer than the right, and passes in front of the aorta, just below the origin of the superior mesenteric artery. It receives the left spermatic, the left inferior phrenic, and, generally, the left suprarenal veins. It opens into the vena cava, a little higher than the right. The sitprarenal vein terminates on the right side in the vena cava; on the left side, in the left renal or phrenic vein. The phrenic veins follow the course of the phrenic arteries. The two superior, of small size, accompany the phrenic nerve and comes nervi phrenici artery ; the right terminating opposite the junction of the two venae innominatse, the left in the left superior intercostal or left internal mammary. The tivo inferior phrenic veins follow the course of the phrenic arteries, and terminate, the right in the inferior vena cava, the left in the left renal vein. The hepatic veins commence in the substance of the liver, in the capillaiy termi- nations of the portal vein and hepatic artery: these branches, gradually uniting, usually form three lai'ge veins, which converge towards the posterior border of the liver, and open into the inferior vena cava, whilst that vessel is situated in the groove at the back part of this organ. Of these three veins, one from the right, and another from the left lobe, open obliquely into the vena cava; that from the middle of the organ and lobulus Spigelii having a straight course. The hepatic veins run singly, and are in direct contact with the hepatic tissue. They are desti- tute of valves. Portal System of Veins. The portal venous system is composed of four large veins, which collect the venous blood from the viscera of digestion. The trunk formed by their union (vena porta?) enters the liver and ramifies throughout its substance; and its branches again emerging from that organ as the hepatic veins terminate in the inferior vena cava. The brunches of this vein arc in all cases single, and destitute of valves. The veins forming the portal system are, the Inferior mesenteric. Splenic. Superior mesenteric. Gastric. The inferior mesenteric vein returns the blood from the rectum, sigmoid flexure, and descending colon, corresponding with the ramifications of the branches of the inferior mesenteric artery. Ascending beneath the peritoneum in the lumbar region, it passes behind the transverse portion of the duodenum and pancreas, and terminates in the splenic vein. Its lnemorrhoidal branches inosculate with those of inch from the orifice of the right renal vein. Journal of Anatomy and Physioloyy, vol. vii. p. 163. * The student may observe that all veins above the Diaphragm, which do not lie on the same plane as the arteries which they accompany, lie in front of them; and that all veins below the Diaphragm, which do not lie on the same plane as the arteries which they accom- pany, lie behind them, except the renal and profunda femoris vein. G G