Ixiii DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. Fig. XXVII.—Osteoblasts from the parie- tal bone of a human embryo thirteen weeks old (after Gegenbauer). veloped no cartilaginous mould precedes the appearance of the bone-tissue. The process, though pointed out originally by Dr. Nesbitt in the year 1736, was first accurately described by Dr. Sharpey; and it does not appear that subsequent observers have been able to add anything essential to his description. This is, substantially, as follows :—In the membrane which occupies the place of the future bone a little network of bony spiculae is first noticed, radiating from the point of ossification. When these rays of grow- ing bone are examined by the microscope, there is found a network of fine clear fibres (osteogenic fibres), which become dark and granular from cal- cification, and as they calcify they are found to enclose in then interior large granular corpuscles or ' osteo- blasts.' These corpuscles at first lie upon the osteogenic fibres, so that the corpuscles must be removed by brush- ing the specimen with a hair-pencil in order to render the fibres clear; but they gradually sink into areolae developed among the fibres. The areolae appear to be the rudiments of the lacunae, the passages between the fibres form the canaliculi, and the osteoblasts are the rudiments of the bone-cells. As the tissue increases in thickness vessels shoot into it, groov- ing for themselves spaces or channels, which become the Haversian canals. Thus the infra-membranous and intra- cartilaginous processes of ossification are similar in their more essential features. The subperiosteal is a form of the intra-membranous process of ossifi- cation. The period of ossification is different in different bones. The order of succession may be thus arranged (Kolliker) :— In the second month, first in the clavicle and lower jaw (fifth to seventh week) ; then in the vertebrae, humerus, femur, the ribs, and the cartila- ginous portion of the occipital bone. At the end of the second and commencement of the third month, the frontal bone, the scapula, the bones of the fore-arm and leg, and upper jaw make their appearance. In the third month, the remaining cranial bones, with few exceptions, the metatarsus, the metacarpus, and the phalanges, begin to ossify. In the fourth month, the iliac bones, and the ossicula auditus. In the fourth or fifth month, the ethmoid, sternum, os pubis, and ischium. From the sixth to the seventh month, the calcaneum and astragalus. In the eighth month, the hyoid bone. At birth, the epiphyses of all the cylindrical bones, with the exception of the lower epiphyses of the femur, and occasionally the upper epiphysis of the tibia; all the bones of the carpus; the five smaller ones of the . Bony septa with the cells of the lacunae. 6. Layers of osteoblasts, c. The latter in transition to bone- corpuscles.