75* FEMALE ORGANS OF GENERATION. The Uterus. The uterus is the organ of gestation, receiving the fecundated ovum in its cavity retaining and supporting it during the development of the foetus, and becoming the principal agent in its expulsion at the time of parturition. In the virgin state it is pear-shaped, flattened from before backwards, and situated in the cavity of the pelvis, between the bladder and the rectum ; it is retained in its position by the round and broad ligaments on each side, and projects into the upper end of the vagina below. Its upper end, or base, is directed upwards and forwards ; its lower end, or apex, downwards and backwards, in the line of the axis of the inlet of the pelvis. It therefore forms an angle with the vagina, since the direction of the vagina corresponds to the axis of the cavity and outlet of the pelvis. The uterus measures about three inches in length, two in breadth at its upper part, and an inch in thickness, and it weighs from an ounce to an ounce and a half. The fundus is the upper broad extremity of the organ : it is convex, covered by peritoneum, and placed on a line below the level of the brim of the pelvis. The body gradually narrows from the fundus to the neck. Its anterior surface is flattened, covered by peritoneum in the upper three-fourths of its extent, and separated from the bladder by some convolutions of the small intestine : the lower fourth is connected with the bladder. Its posterior surface is convex, covered by peritoneum throughout, and separated from the rectum by some convolutions of the intestine. Its bit, nil mart/ins are concave, and give attachment to the Fallopian tube above, the round ligament below and in front of this, and the ligament of the ovary behind and below both of these structures. The cervix is the lower rounded and constricted portion of the uterus: around its circumference is attached the upper end of the vagina, which extends upwards a greater distance behind than in front. At the vaginal extremity of the uterus is a tiunsverse aperture, the os uteri, bounded by two lips, the anterior of which is thick, the posterior narrow and long. Ligaments.—The ligaments of the uterus are six in number : two anterior, two posterior, and two lateral. They are formed of peritoneum. The tvjo anterior ligaments (vesico-uterine) are two semilunar folds which pass between the neck of the uterus and the posterior surface of the bladder. The two posterior ligaments {recto-uterine) pass between the sides of the uterus and rectum. The fold of peritoneum which forms these ligaments is reflected from the anterior surface of the second portion of the rectum on to the posterior surface of the upper part of the vagina, and thence passes up on to the posterior wall of the ut erus. It thus forms a pouch or cul-de-sac, which is termed the recto-vaginal pouch, or pouch of Douglas. The two lateral or broad ligaments pass from the sides of the uterus to the Literal walls of the pelvis, forming a septum across the pelvis, which divides that cavity into two portions. In the anterior part are contained the bladder, urethra, and vagina ; in the posterior part, the rectum. The cavity of the uterus is small in comparison with the size of the organ : that portion of the cavity which corresponds to the body is triangular, flattened from before backwards, so that its walls are closely approximaced, and having its base directed upwards towards the fundus. At each superior angle is a funnel-shaped cavity, which constitutes the remains of the division of the body of the uterus into two cornua; and at the bottom of each cavity is the minute orifice of the Fallopian tube. At the inferior angle of the uterine cavity is a small constricted opening, the internal orifice {ostium internum), which leads into the cavity of the cervix. The cavity of the cervix is somewhat cylindrical, flattened from before backwards, broader at the middle than at either extremity, and communicates, below, with the vagina. Each wall of the canal presents a longitudinal column, from which proceed a number of small oblique columns, giving the appearance of branches from the stem of a tree ;