INTRODUCTION. —•<>» GENERAL ANATOMY. THE fluids of the body, which are intended for its nutrition, are the lymph, chyle, and the blood. There are other fluids also which partially subserve the same purpose, as the saliva, the gastric juice, the bile, the intestinal secretion; and others which are purely excre- mentitious, as the urine. All these fluids form a part of the bulk of the body under ordinary circumstances. But there is no need to describe the rest in this place, since they are the secretions of special organs, and are described, as far as is judged necessary for the purpose of this work, in subsequent pages. We shall here speak first of the blood, and next of the lymph and chyle. THE BLOOD. The blood is a fluid holding a large number of minute cells or corpuscles in suspension. Its general physical characters are so well known that we need merely say that it is of a dark red or purple colour in the veins, and of a bright red or scarlet in the arteries; that it is viscid, drying rapidly, and with a clammy feeling; salt to the taste, slightly alkaline, and with a specific gravity of about 1055. General Composition of the Blood.—On standing, blood, under ordinary circumstances, soon separates into two parts—a fluid called the ' serum ' and a clot or ' coagulum.' The latter is not merely the cells or blood- corpuscles spoken of above as held in suspension, and which have subsided out of the fluid, but consists besides of fibrin which has been held in solution in the fluid blood, and which in its solidification has enclosed and implicated the blood-corpuscles as they subside.* It is thus seen that the blood consists naturally of two parts, viz. the plasma, or liquor sanguinis, a fluid rich in fibrin, and the blood-cells, or blood-corpuscles, and that, when drawn from the body, it consists of two parts composed differently to the above,—viz. the clot, which comprises the blood-corpuscles and the fibrin of the plasma ; and the serum, which con- sists of the remainder of the plasma. One hundred volumes of blood of man contain about sixty-four volumes of plasma and thirty-six volumes of corpuscles (Klein). * It should be borne in mind that, though we speak of fibrin as one of the constituents of the blood, it does not exist, as Jibrin, in the living blood, but is only formed after the withdrawal of the blood from the body, by the union of two factors, which may be termed tibrin-factors. See page zl.