792 SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. During the operation it is of great importance that the finger should be passed into the bladder before the staff is removed; if this is neglected, and if the incision made through the prostate and neck of the bladder is too small, great difficulty may be experienced in introducing the finger afterwards; and in the child, where the connections of the bladder to the surrounding parts are very loose, the force made in the attempt is sufficient to displace the bladder up into the abdomen, out of the reach of the operator. Such a proceeding has not unfrequently occurred, producing the most embarrassing results, and total failure of the operation. It is necessary to bear in mind that the arteries in the perinaeum occasionally take an abnormal course. Thus the artery of the bulb, when it arises, as sometimes happens, from the pudic opposite the tuber ischii, is liable to be wounded in the operation for lithotomy, in its passage forwards to the bulb. The accessory pudic may be divided near the posterior border of the prostate gland, if this is completely cut across; and the prostatic veins, especially in people advanced in life, are of large size, and give rise, when divided, to troublesome haemorrhage. Pelvic Eascia. The pelvic fascia (Gg. 453) is a thin membrane which lines the whole of the cavity of the pelvis, and is continuous with the transversalis and iliac fasciae. It is attached to the brim of the pelvis for a short distance at the side of the cavity, and to the inner surface of the bone round the attachment of the Obturator internus. 453,—Side View of the Pelvic Viscera of the Male Subject, showing the Pelvic and Perineal Fasciae. At the posterior border of this muscle, it is continued backwards as a very thin membrane in front of the Pyriformis muscle and sacral nerves, behind the branches of the internal iliac artery and vein, which perforate it, to the front of the sacrum. In front it follows the attachment of the Obturator internus to the bone, arches beneath the obturator vessels, completing the orifice of the obturator canal, and at