ORGANS OF SENSE. 5 88 in advanced life, when it becomes flattened. The cornea is dense and of uniform thickness throughout; its posterior surface is perfectly circular in outline, and exceeds the anterior surface slightly in extent, from the latter being overlapped by the sclerotic. Structure. The cornea consists of four layers : namely, of a thick central fibrous structure, the cornea proper; in front of this is the conjunctiva ; behind, the posterior elastic lamina, covered by the lining membrane of the anterior chamber of the eye- ball. The name of membrane of Descemet or Demours is given to this posterior elastic lamina and its epithelial coating. The proper substance of the cornea is fibrous, tough, unyielding, perfectly trans- parent, and continuous with the sclerotic, with which it is in structure identical. It is composed of about sixty flattened lamellae, superimposed one on another. These lamellae are made up of ordinary fibrillar connective tissue, the fibres of which are directly continuous with the fibres of the sclerotic. The fibres of each lamella are for the most part parallel with each other; those of alternating lamella? at right angles to each other. Fibres, however, frequently pass from one lamella to the next. The corneal layers are connected with each other by an interstitial cement substance, in which are spaces, the corneal sjmces. The spaces are stellate in shape and have numerous offsets, by which they communicate with other spaces. Each space contains a cell, the corneal corpuscle, which resembles in form the space in which it is contained, but does not entirely fill it. Immediately beneath the conjunctival epithelium, the cornea proper presents certain characteristic differences, which have led some anatomists to regard it as a distinct membrane, and it has been named by Bowman the anterior elastic lamina. It differs, however, from the true elastic lamina or membrane of Descemet in many essential particulars, presenting evidence of fibrillar structure and not having the same tendency to curl inwards, or to undergo fracture, when detached from the other layers of the cornea. It consists of extremely closely interwoven fibrils, similar to those found in the rest of the cornea proper, but contains no corneal corpuscles. It seems therefore more proper to regard it as a part of the proi^er tissue of the cornea.* The posterior elastic lamina, which covers the proper structure of the cornea behind presents no structure recognisable under the microscope. It consists of a hard, elastic, and perfectly transparent homogeneous membrane, of extreme thinness which is not rendered opaque by either water, alcohol, or acids. It is very brittle but its most remarkable property is its extreme elasticity, and the tendency which it presents to curl up, or roll upon itself, with the attached surface innermost, when separate from the proper substance of the cornea. Its use appears to be (as suggested by Dr. Jacob), ' to preserve the requisite permanent correct curvature of the flaccid cornea proper.' The conjunctival epithelium, which covers the front of the cornea proper, consists of several layers of epithelial cells. The lowermost cells are columnar : then follow two or three layers of polyhedral cells, some of which present ridges and furrows similar to those found in the cuticle. Lastly, there are three or four layers of seal epithelium, with flattened nuclei. The epithelial lining of the aqueous chamber covers the posterior surface of the posterior elastic lamina. It consists of a single layer of polygonal transparent nucleated cells, similar to those found lining other serous cavities. Arteries and Nerves. The cornea is a non-vascular structure, the capillary vessels terminating in loops at its circumference. Lymphatic vessels have not as yet been demonstrated in it. The nerves are numerous, twenty-four to thirty-six in number (Kolliker) : forty to forty-five (Waldeyer and Siimisch); they are derived from the ciliary nerves, and enter the laminated tissue of the cornea. The ramify throughout its substance in a delicate network, and their terminal filament * This layer has been called by Reichert, the ' anterior limiting layer,' a name whic appears more applicable to it than that of anterior elastic lamina.