ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. Nerves.—The lungs are supplied from the anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses, formed chiefly by branches from the sympathetic and pneumogastric. The filaments from these plexuses accompany the bronchial tubes, upon which they are lost. Small ganglia are found upon these nerves. Thyroid Gland. The thyroid gland bears much resemblance in structure to other glandular organs, and is usually classified together with the thymus, suprarenal capsules, and spleen, under the head of ductless glands, since it has no excretory duct. Its func- tion is unknown, but, from its situation in connection with the trachea and larynx, the thyroid body is usually described with those organs, although it takes no part in the function of respiration. It is situated at the upper part of the trachea, and con- sists of two lateral lobes, placed one on each side of that tube, and connected together by a narrow transverse portion, the isthmus. Its anterior surface is convex, and covered by the Sterno-hyoid, Sterno-thyroid, and Omo-hyoid muscles. Its lateral surfaces, also convex, lie in 406.—Two Lobules from the Thyroid of contact with the sheath of the common carotid artery. Its posterior surface is concave, and embraces the trachea and larynx. The posterior borders of the gland extend as far back as the lower part of the pharynx. The thyroid is of a brownish-red colour. Its weight varies from one to two ounces. It is larger in females than in males, and becomes slightly increased in size during menstruation. It occasionally becomes enormously hypertrophied, constituting the disease called bionchocele, or goitre. Each lobe is somewhat conical in shape, about two inches in length, and three-quarters of an inch to an inch and a quarter in breadth, the right lobe being the larger of the two a Small glandular vesicles with their celK_ b The same with incipient colloid metamorphosis, more The isthmus Connects the lower third strongly marked at c. (I. Coarse lymph-oanalx. . i!i • i F'ne radicles of the same. /. An efferent vessel of the two lateral lobes ; it measures about 0f considerable size, half an inch in breadth, and the same in depth, and usually covers the second and third rings of the trachea. Its situation presents, however, many variations, a point of importance in the operation of trache- otomy. Sometimes the isthmus is altogether wanting. A third lobe, of conical shape, called the pyramid, occasionally arises from the left side of the upper part of the isthmus, or from the left lobe, and ascends as high as the hyoid bone. It is occasionally quite detached, or divided into two parts, or altogether wanting. A few muscular bands are occasionally found attached, above, to the body of the hyoid bone, and below to the isthmus of the gland, or its pyramidal process. These form a muscle, which was named by Sommerring the Levator glandulce thyroidece. Structure.—The thyroid consists of a connective-tissue capsule, from the internal surface of which are given off septa, which subdivide the organ into lobes and lobules, and in which ramify the blood-vessels and lymphatics. Each lobule consists of a number of vesicles enclosed in a vascular connective tissue, derived from the inter- lobular structure, by means of which they are packed together into lobules, the aggregation of which form the lobes of the gland. an Infant.