THE SALIVARY GLANDS. 633 Hyo glossus and Genio-hyo-glossus muscles, to the deep portion of the gland, where it commences by numerous branches. On the Hyo-glossus muscle it lies between the gustatory and hypoglossal nerves, but at the anterior border of the muscle it crosses beneath the gustatory nerve and is then placed above it. Vessels and JSferves. The arteries supplying the submaxillary gland are branches of the facial and lingual. Its veins follow the course of the arteries. The nerves are 353.—A highly magnified. Section of the Submaxillary Gland of the Dog, stained with Carmine. (Kolliker.) a. Cross section of small salivary duct. b. An alveolus containing salivary cells, c. Crescent of Gianuzzi. derived from the submaxillary ganglion, from the Mylo hyoid branch of the inferior dental, and from the sympathetic. The Sublingual gland is the smallest of the salivary glands. It is situated beneath the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth, at the side of the fra?num linguse, in contact with the inner surface of the lower jaw, close to the symphysis. It is narrow, flattened, in shape somewhat like an almond, and weighs about a drachm. 354.—Illustrating Pniigei^s Views of the Termination of the Nerves in the Alveolar Cells. (From Strieker's Handbook.) A. Direct passage of nerve into a salivary cell. B. By the medium of a multipolar ganglion-cell, g. It is in relation, above, with the mucous membrane; beloiv, with the Mylo-hyoid muscle ; in front, with the depression on the side of the symphysis of the lower jaw, and with its fellow of the opposite side; behind, with the deep part of the submaxillar}' gland; and internally, with the Geniodryo-glossus, from which it is separated by the lingual nerve and Wharton's duct. Its excretory ducts {ductus Riviniani), from eight to twenty in number, open separately into the mouth, on the elevated crest of mucous membrane, caused by the projection of the gland, on either side of the framum linguae. One or more join to form a tube which opens into the Whartouian duct; this is called the duct of Bartholin*.