SPINAL NERVES. cutaneous nerves of the thorax; the branch from the second nerve becoming joined with the supra-clavicular nerves of the cervical plexus. Branches. Numerous slender muscular filaments supply the Intercostal and Tri- angularis sterni muscles. Some of tbese branches, at the front of the chest, cross the costal cartilages from one to another intercostal space. Lateral cutaneous nerves. These are derived from the intercostal nerves, midway between the vertebrae and sternum ; they pierce the External intercostal and Serratus magnus muscles, and divide into two branches, anterior and posterior. The anterior brandies are reflected forwards to the side and the fore part of the chest, supplying the integument of the chest and mamma, and the upper digitations of the external oblique. The posterior branches are reflected backwards, to supply the integument over the scapula and over the Latissimus dorsi. The first intercostal nerve has no lateral cutaneous branch. The lateral cuta- neous branch of the second intercostal nerve is of large size, and does not divide like the other nerves into an anterior and posterior branch. It is named, from its origin and distribution, the intercosto-humeral nerve (fig. 299). It pierces the External intercostal muscle, crosses the axilla to the inner side of the arm, and joins with a filament from the nerve of Wrisberg. It then pierces the fascia, and supplies the skin of the upper half of the inner and back part of the arm, communicating with the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve. The size of this nerve is in inverse proportion to the size of the other cutaneous nerves, especially the nerve of Wrisberg. A second intercosto-humeral nerve is frequently given off from the third intercostal. It supplies filaments to the arm-pit and inner side of the arm. Lower Intercostal Nerves. The lower intercostal nerves (excepting the last) have the same arrangement as the upper ones as far as the anterior extremities of the intercostal spaces, where they pass behind the costal cartilages, and between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles, to the sheath of the Rectus, which they perforate. They supply the Rectus muscle, and terminate in branches which become subcutaneous near the linea alba. These branches which are named the anterior cutaneous nerves of the abdomen, supply the integument of the front of the belly ; they are directed outwards as far as the lateral cutaneous nerves. The lower intercostal nerves supply the Intercostal and Abdominal muscles, and, about the middle of their course, give off lateral cutaneous branches, which pierce the External intercostal and External oblique muscles, and are distributed to the integument of the abdomen, the anterior branches passing nearly as far forwards as the margin of the Rectus; the posterior branches passing to supply the skin over the Latissimus dorsi, where they join the dorsal cutaneous nerves. Peculiar Dorsal Nerves. First dorsal nerve. Its roots of origin are similar to those of a cervical nerve. Its posterior or dorsal division resembles, in its mode of distribution, the dorsal branches of the cervical nerves. Its anterior division enters almost wholly into the formation of the brachial plexus, giving off, before it leaves the thorax, a small inter- costal branch, which runs along the first intercostal space, and terminates on the front of the chest, by forming the first anterior cutaneous nerve of the thorax. The first intercostal nerve gives off no lateral cutaneous branch. The last dorsal is larger than the other dorsal nerves. Its anterior division rUns along the lower border of the last rib in front of the Quadratus lumborum, perforates the aponeurosis of the Transversalis, and passes forwards between it and the Inter- nal obb'que, to be distributed in the same manner as the preceding nerves. It com- municates with the ilio-hypogastric branch of the lumbar plexus, and is frequently connected with the first lumbar nerve by a slender branch, the dorsi-lumbar nerve, which descends in the substance of the Quadratus lumborum.