THE PENIS. 74i Vessels and Nerves. The arteries supplying the prostate are derived from the internal pudic, vesical, and hemorrhoidal. Its veins form a plexus around the sides and base of the gland; they receive in front the dorsal vein of the penis, and terminate in the internal iliac vein. The nerves are derived from the hypogastric plexus. The Prostatic Secretion is a milky fluid, having an acid reaction, and presenting, on microscopic examination, molecular matter, the squamous and columnar forms of epithelium, and granular nuclei. In old age, this gland is liable to be enlarged, and its ducts are often filled with innumerable small concretions, of a brownish-red colour, and of the size of a millet-seed, composed of carbonate of lime and animal matter. Cowper's Glands. Cowper's Glands are two small rounded and somewhat lobulated bodies, of a yellowish colour, about the size of peas, placed beneath the fore part of the mem- branous portion of the urethra, between the two layers of the deep perinajal fascia. They lie close behind the bulb, and are enclosed by the transverse fibres of the Com- pressor urethra muscle. Each gland consists of several lobules, held together by a fibrous investment. The excretory duct of each gland, nearly an inch in length, passes obliquely forwards beneath the mucous membrane, and opens by a minute orifice on the floor of the bulbous portion of the urethra. Their existence is said to be constant; they gradually diminish in size as age advances. The Penis. The penis is the organ of copulation, and contains in its interior the larger portion of the urethra. It consists of a root, body, and extremity or glans penis. The root is broad, and firmly connected to the rami of the pubes by two strong tapering fibrous processes, the crura, and to the front of the symphysis pubis by a fibrous membrane, the suspensory ligament. The extremity, or glans penis, presents the form of an obtuse cone, flattened from above downwards. At its summit is a vertical fissure, the orifice of the urethra (meatus urinarius) : at the back part of this orifice a fold of mucous membrane passes backwards to the bottom of a depressed raphe, where it is continuous with the prepuce ; this fold is termed the frmnum prceputii. The base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border, the corona glandis; and behind the corona is a deep constriction, the cervix. Upon both of these, numerous small lenticular sebaceous glands are found, the glandulm Tysonii odoriferxB, They secrete a sebaceous matter of very peculiar odour, which probably contains caseine, and becomes easily decom- posed. The body of the penis is the part between the root and extremity. In the flaccid condition of the organ it is cylindrical, but when erect has a triangirlar prismatic form with rounded angles, the broadest side being turned upward, and called the dorsum. It is covered by integument remarkable for its thinness, its dark colour, its looseness of connection with the deeper parts of the organ, and its containing no adipose tissue. At the root of the penis the integument is continuous with that upon the pubes and scrotum ; and at the neck of the glans it leaves the surface, and becomes folded upon itself to form the prepuce. The internal layer of the prepuce, which also becomes attached to the cervix, approaches in character to a mucous membrane; it is reflected over the glans penis, and at the meatus urinarius is continuous with the mucous lining of the urethra. The mucous membrane covering the glans penis contains no sebaceous glands; but projecting from its free surface are a number of small highly sensitive papillse. The penis is composed of a mass of erectile tissue, enclosed in three cylindrical fibrous compartments. Of these, two, the corpora cavernosa, are placed side by side