THE KIDNEYS. 723 connective tissue of the kidney. At the hilum it is reflected inwards so as to line the sides of the sinus; and at the floor of that cavity becomes continuous with the fibrous sheaths of the vessels and nerves, and with the cup-like commencements of the ureter above mentioned, called the calices. The cortical structure, is of a reddish-brown coloui-, soft, granular, and easily lacerable. It is found everywhere immediately beneath the capsule, and is seen to extend itself in an arched form over each medullary pyramid. The part separating the sides of any two pyramids, through which the arteries and nerves enter and the veins and lymphatics emerge from the kidney, is called a cortical column, or column of Bertini (a, a', fig. 410); whilst that portion which stretches from one cortical column to the next, and intervenes between the base of the pyramid and the capsule, which is marked by the dotted line, extending from a to a' (fig. 410), is called a cortical arch, the depth of which varies from a third to half an inch. The cortical Structure is composed of convoluted and straight tubes called tubuli uriniferi; of blood-vessels, nerves, and lymphatics; and also of numerous little red masses dis- seminated throughout its substance, known as the Malpighian bodies. These bodies, with the interstitial tissue connecting them, will be described under the head of the 1 Minute Structure of the Kidney.' The medullary strxicture, as before said, is seen to consist of palish-red coloured striated conical masses, the pyramids of Malpighi; the number of which, varying from eight to eighteen, corresponds to the number of lobes of which the organ in the foetal state is composed. The base of each pyramid is surrounded by a cortical arch, and directed towards the circumference of the kidney; the sides are contiguous with the cortical columns ; whilst the apex, known as the papilla or mamilla of the kidney, is covered by mucous membrane, and is seen projecting into one of the calices of the ureter. In addition to the arteries and veins and the ' looped tubes of Henle,' hereafter to be described, each pyramid is composed of a large number of straight uriniferous tubes passing from base to apex, and which, by repeated inosculations at very acute angles, are reduced to a comparatively small number, and terminate in open mouths on the mucous surface of the mamilla. Mtnute Structure of the Kidney. — Under this head the Malpighian bodies will be first described ; then the course and structure of the tubuli uriniferi; and lastly, the blood-vessels, nerves, lymphatics, and connective tissue or intertubular stroma. The Malpighian bodies are small rounded masses averaging T^th of an inch in diameter, of a deep red colour, found only in the cortical structure of the kidney ; being scattered throughout the columns of Bertini, but regularly disposed in double rows in the cortical arches. Each of these little bodies is composed of two parts : a central glomerulus of vessels called a Malpighian tuft, and a membranous envelope, the Malpighian capsule, which latter is a small pouch-like commencement of a urini- ferous tubule.* The Malpighian tuft, or vascular glomerulus, consists of the ramifications of certain small vessels termed afferent and efferent renals, the latter being usually smaller than the former. Each renal afferent in the cortical arches is derived from an interlobular artery (fig. 413), but in the cortical columns it springs from one of the arterife proprise renales (fig. 420). Having pierced the capsule, usually at a point opposite to the commencing tubule (figs. 412, 413), it divides in a radiating or tuft- like manner into several terminal branches, which ultimately inosculate so as to form a network of capillaries, from which the efferent arises (gl, fig. 413). This latter vessel makes its egress from the capsule near to the point where the afferent enters ; and then, anastomosing with other efterents from other tufts, contributes to form a dense venous plexus around the urinary tubes adjacent (shown at m in fig. 413). The Malpighian capsule, which surrotinds the glomerulus, is formed of homo- * In former editions of this work the Malpighian capsule was said to be found at the side as well as the commencement of a tubule (Gerlach) ; only the latter position, however, is now recognised in the human subject. 3 A 2