GENERAL ANATOMY. Ixxii but is never found in the nerves. It is composed, as its name implies, of vesicles, or corpuscles, commonly called nerve- or ganglion-corpuscles, con- taining nuclei and nucleoli; the vesicles being embedded either in a finely granular substance, as in the brain, or in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia. Each vesicle consists of a finely granular protoplasmic material, part of which is occasionally of a coarser kind, and of a reddish or yellowish-brown colour. Xo distinct limiting membrane or cell-wall has been ascertained to exist. The nucleus is, as a rule, a large, well-defined, round vesicular body, containing a nucleolus which is peculiarly clear and brilliant. The nerve-corpuscles vary in shape and size; some are small, spherical, or ovoidal, with an uninterrupted outline. These forms are most numerous in the ganglia of the sympathetic. Others, called caudate or stellate nerve-corpuscles, are characterised by their larger size, and from Fig. XXXVIII.—Human nerve-tubes. Mag- nified 350 times. Three of them are fine, one of which is varicose, one of middling thickness, and with a simple contour ; and three thick, two of which are double con- toured, and one with grumous contents. Fh;. XXXIX.—Magnified 300 diameters. a. Nerve-tube of tlie common eel in water. Tlie delicate line on it* exterior indicates the tubular membrane. Tlie dark double-edged inner one is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled. 6. The same in ether. Several oii- globules have coalesced in the interior, and others have accumulated around the exterior of the tube. The white substance lias in part disap- peared. having one or more tail-like processes issuing from them, which occasionally divide and subdivide into numerous branches. These processes are very delicate, apparently tubular, and contain a similar granular material to that found within the corpuscle. Some of the processes terminate in fine transparent fibres, which become lost among the other elements of the nervous tissue ; others may be traced until, after losing their granular appearance, they become continuous with an ordinary nerve-fibre. The white, otherwise called tubular or fibrous, nervous substance is found constituting a great part of the brain and spinal cord, almost the whole of the cerebro-spinal nerves, and a great part of the sympathetic, and is made up of fibres. These fibres are of two kinds—the medullated or white fibres, and non-mednllated or grey lilacs. The medullated fibres, when perfectly fresh, appear to be homogeneous : but they soon separate into two parts, the white substance of Schwann and the axis'Cylinder of L'urkinje, the whole being enclosed in a membrane—the