THE THOEAX. 686 The annulus ovalis is the prominent oval margin of the foramen ovale. It is most distinct above, and at the sides ; below, it is deficient. A small slit-like valvular opening is occasionally found, at the upper margin of the fossa ovalis, which leads upwards, beneath the annulus, into the left auricle, and is the remains of the aperture between the two auricles in the foetus. The musculi pectinati are small, prominent muscular columns, which run across the inner surface of the appendix auriculae, and adjoining portion of the wall of the sinus. They have received the name pectinati from the fancied resemblance they bear to the teeth of a comb. The Eight Ventricle is triangular in form, and extends from the right auricle to near the apex of the heart. Its anterior or upper surface is rounded and convex, and forms the larger part of the front of the heart. Its posterior or under surface is flattened, rests upon the Diaphragm, and forms only a small part of the back of the heart. Its inner wall is formed by the partition between the two ventricles, the septum ventriculorum, the surface of which is convex, and bulges into the cavity of the right ventricle. Superiorly, the ventricle forms a conical prolongation, the infundibulum, or conus arteriosus, from which the pulmonary artery arises. The walls of the right ventricle are thinner than those of the left, the proportion between them being as i to 2 (Bizot). The wall is thickest at the base, and gradually becomes thinner towards the apex. The cavity, which equals that of the left ventricle, is capable of containing about three fluid ounces.* To examine the interior, an incision should be made a little to the right of the anterior ventricular groove from the pulmonary artery to the apex of the heart, and should be carried up from thence along- the right border of the ventricle, as far as the auriculo-ventricular opening. The following parts present themselves for examination :— „ . f Auriculo-ventricular. * l Opening of the pulmonary artery. -*r , f Tricuspid. Valves. < _ ., L I Semilunar. And a muscular and tendinous apparatus conuected with the tricuspid valve : — Columns carnese. Chordae tendinete. The auriculo-ventricular orifice is the large oval aperture of communication between the auricle and ventricle. It is situated at the base of the ventricle, near the right border of the heart, and corresponds to the centre of the sternum, between the fourth costal cartilages. The opening is about an inch in diameter,f oval from side to side, surrounded by a fibrous ring, covered by the lining mem- brane of the heart, and rather larger than the corresponding aperture on the left side, being sufficiently large to admit the ends of four fingers. It is guarded by the tricuspid valve. The opening of the pulmonary artery is circular in form, and situated at the summit of the conus arteriosus, close to the septum ventriculorum. It is placed on the left side of the auriculo-ventricular opening, upon the anterior aspect of the heart, and corresponds to the articulation of the third costal cartilage of the left side with the sternum. Its orifice is guarded by the pulmonary semilunar valves. * Morrant Baker says that, ' taking the means of various estimates, it may be inferred that each ventricle is able to contain four to six ounces of blood.' (Kirke's Physiology, 10th edition, p. 156.) t In the Pathological Transactions, vol. vi. p. 119, Dr. Peacock has given some careful researches upon the weight and dimensions of the heart in health and disease. He states, as the result of his investigations, that, in the healthy adult heart, the right auriculo- ventricular aperture has a mean circumference of 54-4 lines, or 4§f inches ; the left auriculo- ventricular aperture a mean circumference of 44-3 lines, or 3§§ inches ; the pulmonic orifice of 40 lines, or 3|§ inches; and the aortic orifice of 35-5 lines, or 3^ inches : but the dimensions of the orifices varied greatly in different cases, the auriculo-ventricular aperture having a range of from 45 to 60 lines, and the others in the same proportion.