cxxvi GENERAL ANATOMY. up into the body of the embryo, there is no amnion and no allantois ; but whenever the amnion is formed an allantois is also formed. In the former case the embryo is nourished directly by transudation into the yolk. In the latter the yolk is of subordinate importance ; the foetus deriving its nourishment from the uterus through the vascular connection established between the allantois and decidua, or later between the foetal elements of the placenta, derived from the allantois, and the maternal, derived from the decidua. The Chorion.—At the time we have just been speaking of, the envelope of the ovum consists externally of the vitelline membrane, lined internally by the amnion. The allantois, or rather the fibro-vascular portion of the allantois, grows in between these two membranes, applies itself to the vitelline membrane, and forms with it the foetal portion of the chorion.* Between this membrane and the amnion there is a space (fig. LXXYIII.) which is described by Dalton as occupied by a semi-fluid gelatinous material, somewhat similar to that of the vitreous body of the eye, and a similar material forms the bulk of the umbilical cord. The umbilical vesicle, as is seen in the figures, lies in this space, which is the primitive pleuro-peritoneal cavity, or interval between the somato- and splanchno- pleural layers of the mesoblast. Soon the surface of the foetal chorion shows villous processes, from which circumstance it is known as the ' shaggy chorion.' These villi are projections formed to receive the outgrowths of the foetal vessels; bus the villi are formed before they receive any vessels, and are at first, as figured by Dalton,f mere cellular fingers or processes, likened by him to the tufts of seaweed. Into these tufts the growing vessels of the allantois with their connective-tissue envelope project. These villi cover at first the whole surface of the chorion; but as development progresses and the placenta is about to be formed, by which the extent of the attachment of the ovum to the uterine walls is to be limited (whilst the energy of its nutrition is no doubt to be indefinitely increased), the villi disappear over the rest of the chorion, and are confined to that part only which is to form the foetal portion of the placenta. The Decidua.—The growth of the chorion and placenta can only be understood by tracing the formation of the decidua. The decidua (figs. LXXVIIL, LXXXIL) is formed from the mucous membrane of the uterus. Even before the arrival of the fecundated ovum in the uterus, the mucous membrane of the latter becomes vascular and tumid, and when the ovum has reached the uterus, it is embedded in the folds of the mucous membrane, which overlap, and finally completely * The precise part of the ovum from which the chorion is originally developed is not certainly determined. I have here followed the authorities who derive it from the vitelline membrane, but it is believed by others to be developed from the epiblast reflected over that, membrane. A reference to tigs. LXXVIL, LXXX., will show the student how easily the vitelline membrane may receive a covering of epiblast in an early period ; and the point can hardly be settled for the human ovum, except by inference from observations on lower animals, and such observations are rendered uncertain in consequence of the immature con- dition of the ovum at this period. Foster and Balfour say ou this point, ' The false amnion either coalesces with the vitelline membrane, in contact with which it lies,or else replaces it, and in the later days of incubation is known as the chorion.' These authors therefore trace epiblastic elements into the chorion, and possibly mesoblastic also, in the chick. f Dalton's IViysiuloyy, 5th cd. p. 630.