GROWTH OF THE EMBRYO. cxx.xi of all three layers of the blastodermic membrane, and the well of the canoe, that is the body-cavity of the embryo, opening into the cavity of the yolk- sac. 13. A portion of the yolk-sac now lies in the body-cavity of the embryo, and a portion outside it; the two parts communicating by a duct, the omphalomesenteric duct. The portion of the yolk-sac external to the body- cavity is now termed the umbilical vesicle, and provides nutrition to the 1 embryo until such time as the allantois is formed ; vessels, developed from the middle blastodermic layer, ramifying over it and'gradually absorbing I its contents. 14. Formation of the Amnion.—At the extremities of the incurved embryo, ! that is to say, at the points where the body-cavity commences, the outer layer of the mesoblast (the somatopleure) and the epiblast curve backwards, forming at first a double fold or diverticulum, which gradually extend over the back of the embryo until they meet behind. At the point of junction the extremities of the two folds adhere together, and the septum thus i formed atrophies and disappears. Thus we have two membranes, one the 1' true' amnion, which encloses a space over the back of the embryo, the ' amniotic cavity,'' containing a clear fluid ; the other the 'false' amnion, which lines the internal surface of the original vitelline membrane. Between i the two is an interval, into which a process of the two internal layers of the blastodermic membrane prolongs itself. 15. Formation of the Allantois.—A hollow projection of the internal layer of the mesoblast (splanchnopleure) and the hypoblast takes place from j the body-cavity of the embryo into the space between the true and false i amnion. This is the allantois. As it grows it gradually spreads out on the internal surface of the false amnion and vitelline membrane, until its two extremities coalesce over the back of the embryo ; thus a membrane is formed, consisting originally of three distinct layers—the vitelline membrane, j the false amnion, and the allantois, which together constitute the chorion. From the outer surface of this membrane villous processes project, which are intended to receive the outgrowths of the foetal vessels. At first these pro- ! cesses cover the whole surface of the chorion, but subsequently are confined I to one part, the seat of the future placenta, the villous processes over the rest [ of the surface disappearing. As the walls of the body-cavity grow inwards j towards the umbilicus, the portion of the allantois within the embryo j becomes partially cut off from the remainder by a constriction corresponding i to the situation of the umbilicus. From this portion the bladder and the j urachus are developed, as will be subsequently explained. The portion of I the allantois external to the embryo, which extends from the situation of I the umbilicus to the chorion, constitutes the umbilical cord; of this II cord the part formed by the hypoblast withers away, the vessels being ! formed in the splanchnopleural layer of the mesoblast. 16. Formation of the Decidua.—The decidua is formed from the mucous )! membrane of the uterus, which becomes vascular and tumid before the I ovum reaches the cavity. The fecundated ovum becomes embedded in Ithis tumid membrane, which grows up around it and encloses it. Thus j the ovum becomes surrounded by three membranes—(1) the amnion, I derived from the somatopleure and epiblast; (2) the chorion, formed by three layers—the allantois, the false amnion, and the vitelline mem- h 2