183 OF THE CARPUS. and cuneiform bones; they are less strong than the dorsal, and placed very deep under the anterior ligament of the wrist. The Interosseous Ligaments (fig. 136) are two narrow bundles of fibrous tissue, connecting the semilunar bone, on one side with the scaphoid, on the other with the cuneiform. They close the upper part of the interspaces between the scaphoid, semilunar, and cuneiform bones, their upper surfaces being smooth, and having attached to their extremities the synovial membrane of the wrist-joint. The articulation of the pisiform with the cuneiform is provided with a separate synovial membrane, protected by a thin capsular ligament. There are also two strong fibrous fasciculi, which connect this bone to the unciform and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone (fig. 134). 2. Articulations of the Second Row of Carpal Bones. These are also arthrodial joints. The articular surfaces are covered with carti- lage, and connected by the following ligaments :— Three Dorsal. Three Palmar. Two Interosseous. The three Dorsal Ligaments extend transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal surface, connecting the trapezium with the trapezoid, the trapezoid with the os magnum, and the os magnum with the unciform. The three Palmar Ligaments have a similar arrangement on the palmar surface. The two Interosseous Ligaments, much thicker than those of the first row, are placed one on each side of the os magnum, connecting it with the trapezoid externally, and the unciform internally. The former is less distinct than the latter. 3. Articulations of the Two Rows of Carpal Bones with each other. The articulations between the two rows of the carpus consist of a joint in the middle, formed by the reception of the head of the os magnum into a cavity formed by the scaphoid and semilunar bones, and of an arthrodial joint on each side, the outer one formed by the articulation of the scaphoid with the trapezium and trapezoid, the internal one by the articulation of the cuneiform and unciform. The articular surfaces are covered by a thin layer of cartilage, and connected by the following ligaments :— Anterior or Palmar. External Lateral. Posterior or Dorsal. Internal Lateral. The Anterior or Palmar Ligaments consist of short fibres, which pass obliquely between the bones of the first and second row on the palmar surface. The Posterior or Dorsal Ligaments have a similar arrangement on the dorsal surface of the carpus. The Lateral Ligaments are very short; they are placed, one on the radial, the other on the ulnar side of the carpus; the former, the stronger and more distinct, connecting the scaphoid and trapezium bones, the latter the cuneiform and unci- form ; they are continuous with the lateral ligaments of the wrist-joint. The common Synovial Membrane of the Carpus is very extensive j it passes from the under surface of the scaphoid, semilunar and cuneiform bones to the upper surface of the bones of the second row, sending upwards two prolongations between the scaphoid and semilunar, and the semilunar and cuneiform : sending downwards three prolongations between the four bones of the second row, which are further con- tinued downwards into the carpo-metacarpal joints of the four inner metacarpal bones. There is a separate synovial membrane between the pisiform and cuneiform bones. Actions. The articulation of the hand and wrist, considered as a whole, is divided by Meyer * into three parts :—1. The radius and the triangular cartilage. 2. The * Reichert u. Du Bois Reymond, Archiv, 1866.