Ixvii MUSCULAR TISSUE. or row of dark dots in the centre of the transparent streak formed by the cohesion of the two cell-membranes. Mr. Schafer describes the sarcous elements as formed by an aggregation of rod-like masses of protoplasm, having rounded ends, and believes that the two bright bands and interven- ing row of black dots are the result of the diffraction of the light around these rounded ends, ' just as a minute oil-globule in water appears sur- rounded with a bright halo when examined under the microscope.' Klein describes the structure of striped muscle somewhat differently. The dark line which separates the two transparent discs seen in fig. XXXI. between the rows of sarcous elements is a transparent homogeneous membrane, the membrane of Krause, continuous with the sarcolemma (fig. XXXII.). The transparent band on either side of this membrane Fig. XXXI.—A. Portion of a medium-sized human muscular fibre. Magnified nearly 800 diameters. B. Separated bundles of fibrils, equally magnified, a, a. Larger, and b, b, smaller collections, c. Still smaller. (/, d. The smallest which could be detached. Fig. XXXII.—Part of a striped muscu- lar fibre of hydrophylus prepared with absolute alcohol. Magnified 300 diams. (Klein and Noble Smith.) ( It pin 111; :n ■in 11ml 111 nun mil III! pill if] mr II11181 is inn ■11111 ill iiiiiBii iiiuiiin- it. Sarcolemma. 6. Membrane of Krause: owing to contraction during hardening, the sarcolemma shows regular hulgings. At the side of Krause's membrane is the transparent lateral disc. The chief mass of a 'muscle compartment' is occu- pied by the contractile diso, composed of sarcous elements. Several nuclei of muscle-corpuscles are shown, and in them a minute network. (transparent lateral disc) separates on either side the sarcous elements from the membrane of Krause. The whole space comprised between two adjacent membranes of Krause and the corresponding sarcolemma is called a muscle compartment. Sometimes in the centre of such a compartment a vertical transparent disc is seen ; but this is regarded by this author as an optical effect due to shrinkage of the sarcous elements. Nuclei are seen at various points, lying below the sarcolemma, and surrounded by protoplasm—form- ing the muscle-corpuscles. The longitudinal striae seen on the muscular fibres are due, according to Klein, to post-mortem changes, i.e. to the exuda- tion of myosin out. of the sarcous elements, so that the primitive fibrils are, according to him, an accidental formation. This form of muscular fibre composes the whole of the voluntary muscles, all the muscles of the ear, those of the larynx, pharynx, tongue, d'2