597 THE EYE. yellow, deepest towards the centre, and does not appear to consist of pigment-cells, b ut simply a staining of the constituent parts. At the ora serrata the layers of the retina for the most part terminate abruptly, and the radiating fibres of Muller, covered by the pigmentary layer, can be traced forwards, as the pars ciliaris, to the iris. The fibres of Muller here present the appearance of columnar epithelial cells, arranged in a single stratum. The arteria centralis retinaj and its accompanying vein pierce the optic nerve, and enter the globe of the eye through the porus opticus. It immediately divides into four or five branches, which at first run between the hyaloid membrane and the nervous layer; but they soon enter the latter membrane, and pass forwards, dividing dichotomously. From these branches a minute capillary plexus is given off, which does not extend beyond the inner nuclear layer. Humours of the Eye. The aqueous humour completely fills the anterior and posterior chambers of the eyeball. It is small in quantity (scarcely exceeding, according to Petit, four or five grains in weight), has an alkaline reaction, in composition is little more than water-, less than one-fiftieth of its weight being solid matter, chiefly chloride of sodium. The anterior chamber is the space bounded in front by the cornea; behind, by the front of the iris. The posterior chamber was the name formerly given to a space which was believed to exist between the iris in front and the capsule of the lens, its suspensory ligament and the ciliary processes, behind. It is now known that the posterior surface of the iris is in immediate contact with the lens throughout the greatest part of its extent. The only space which remains, to represent the posterior chamber, is a narrow chink between the peripheral part of the iris, the suspensory ligament and the ciliary processes. In the adult, these two chambers communicate through the pupil; but in the foetus in the seventh month, when .the pupil is closed by the membrana pupillaris, the two chambers are quite separate. Vitreous Body. The vitreous body forms about four-fifths of the entire globe. It fills the conca- vity of the retina, and is hollowed in front for the reception of the lens and its cap- sule. It is perfectly transparent, of the consistence of thin jelly, and consists of an albuminous fluid enclosed in a delicate transparent membrane, the hyaloid. This membrane invests the outer surface of the vitreous body ; it is intimately connected in front with the suspensory ligament of the lens; and is continued into the back part of the capsule of the lens. It has been supposed, by Hannover, that from its inner surface numerous thin lamellae are prolonged inwards in a radiating manner, forming spaces in which the fluid is contained. In the adult, these lamellae cannot be detected even after careful microscopic examination ; but in the foetus a peculiar fibrous texture prevades the mass, the fibres joining at numerous points, and pre- senting minute nuclear granules at their point of junction. In the centre of the vitreous humour, running from the position of the entrance of the optic nerve on the retina to the posterior surface of the lens is a canal, filled with fluid and lined by a prolongation of the hyaloid membrane. This is the canal of Stilling. It must not be confounded with the canal in the embryonic vitreous humour which conveys the minute artery from the central artery of the retina to the back of the lens. The fluid from the vitreous body resembles nearly pure water ; it contains, however, some salts, and a little albumen. The hyaloid membrane encloses the whole of the vitreous humour, except its anterior surface, which is hollowed out for the reception of the lens ; it passes from the margin of this surface to the margin of the lens, forming the suspensory ligament. It is a delicate structureless membrane, except where it forms the suspensory