636 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. and is in contact with the common and internal carotid arteries, the internal jugular veins, and the eighth, ninth, and sympathetic nerves, and above, with a small part of the Internal Pterygoid muscles. It has seven openings communicating with it; the two posterior nares, the two Eustachian tubes, the mouth, larynx, and oesophagus. The posterior nares are the two large apertures situated at the upper part of the anterior wall of the pharynx. The two Eustachian tubes open one at each side of the upper part of the pharynx, at the back part of the inferior meatus. Below the nasal fossae are the posterior surface of the soft palate and uvula, the large aperture of the mouth, the base of the tongue, the epiglottis, and the cordiform opening of the larynx. The (esophageal opening is the lower contracted portion of the pharynx. Structure. The pharynx is composed of three coats : mucous, fibrous, and mus- cular. The fibrous coat is situated between the mucous and muscular layers, and is called the pharyngeal aponeurosis. It is thick above, where the muscular fibres are wanting, and is firmly connected to the basilar process of the occipital and petrous portion of the temporal bones. As it descends it diminishes in thickness, and is gradually lost. The mucous coat is continuous with that lining the Eustachian tubes, the nares, the mouth, and the larynx. It is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium, as low down as on a level with the fibor of the nares; below that point the epithelium is of the squamous variety. Beneath the mucous membrane are found racemose mucous glands; they are especially numerous at the upper part of the pharynx around the orifices of the Eustachian tubes. Throughout the pharynx are also numerous crypts or recesses, the walls of which are surrounded by lymphoid tissue, similar to what is found in the tonsils. Across the back part of the pharyngeal cavity, between the two Eustachian tubes, a considerable mass of this tissue exists, and has been named the pharyngeal tonsil. The muscular coat has been already described (p. 231). The CEsophagus. The CEsophagus is a muscular canal, about nine inches in length, extending from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences at the lower border of the cricoid cartilage, opposite the fifth cervical vertebra, descends along the front of the spine, through the posterior mediastinum, passes through the Diaphragm, and, entering the abdomen, terminates at the cardiac orifice of the stomach, opposite the ninth dorsal vertebra. The general direction of the oesophagus is vertical ; but it presents two or three slight curvatures in its course. At its commencement it is placed in the median line; but it inclines to the left side as far as the root of the neck, gradually passes to the middle line again, and finally again deviates to the left as it passes forwards to the oesophageal opening of the Diaphragm. The oesophagus also presents an antero-posterior flexure, corresponding to the curvature of the cervical and thoracic portions of the spine. It is the narrowest part of the alimentary canal, being most contracted at its commencement, and at the point where it passes through the Diaphragm. Relations. In the neck, the oesophagus is in relation, in front, with the trachea; and, at the lower part of the neck, where it projects to the left side, with the thyroid gland and thoracic duct; behind, it rests upon the vertebral column and Longus colli muscle; on each side, it is in relation with the common carotid artery (especially the left, as it inclines to that side), and part of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland; the recurrent laryngeal nerves ascend between it and the trachea. In the thorax, it is at first situated a little to the left of the median line; it then passes behind the left side of the transverse part of the aortic arch, and descends in the posterior mediastinum, along the right side of the aorta, nearly to the Diaphragm, where it passes in front and a little to the left of the artery, previous to entering