THE TONGUE. Secondary papilla?, which are of a whitish tint, owing to the thickness and density of the epithelium of which they are composed. They contain also a number of elastic fibres, which render them firmer and moi'e elastic than the papillae of mucous mem- brane generally. They often enclose minute fibres, which have the appearance of fine hairs. Simple papittce, similar to those of the skin, are dispersed very unequally among the compound forms, and exist sparingly on the surface of the tongue behind the cir- cumvallate variety, buried under a layer of epithelium. Structure of the papittce. The papillae apparently resemble in structure those of the cutis, consisting of a cone-shaped projection of connective tissue, covered with a thick layer of squamous epithelium, and contain one or more capillary loops, amongst which nerves are distributed in great abundance. If the epithelium is re- moved, it will be found that they are not simple processes like the papilla? of the skin, for the surface of each is studded with minute conical processes of the mucous membrane, which form secondary papilla? (Todd and Bowman). In the papilla? cir- cumvallata?, the nerves are numerous and of large size; in the papilla? fungiformes they are also numerous, and terminate in a plexi- form network, from which brushlike branches proceed ; in the papilla? filiformes, their mode of termination is uncertain. Buried in the epidermis of the papilla? circumvallata?, and in some of the fungiformes, certain peculiar bodies called taste- goblets have been described.* They are flask-like in shape, their broad base resting on the corium, and their neck opening by an orifice between the cells of the epithelium. They are formed by two kinds of cells : the exterior, which are arranged in several layers, being spindle-shaped and flat- tened, and in contact by their edges ; the tapering extremities extending from the base to the apex of the organ. They thus enclose the central cells, which are also spindle-shaped, but not flattened, and have a large spherical nucleus about the middle of the cell. Both extremities are filamentous, the inner process is described as continuous with the terminal fibril of a nerve, while the outer one projects as an extremely fine hair through the orifice of the taste-goblet, f Besides the papilla?, the mucous membrane of the tongue is provided with glands, and at the posterior part contains large quantities of lymphoid tissue. The mucous glands (lingual), similar in structure to the labial and buccal, are found chiefly beneath the mucous membrane of the posterior third of the dorsum of the tongue. There is a small group of these glands beneath the tip of the tongue, a few along the borders of the organ, and some in front of the circumvallate papilla? projecting in the muscular substance. Their ducts open either upon the surface, or into the depressions round the large papilla?. The lymphoid tissue is situated, for the most part, at the back of the tongue, between the epiglottis and the circumvallate papilla?, and is collected at numerous points into distinct masses known as follicles. Here and there in this situation are depressions in the mucous membrane, which are surrounded by nodules of lymphoid tissue, like the arrangement in the tonsil,—into them open some of the ducts of the lingual glands. The epithelium is of the scaly variety like that of the epidermis. It covers the free surface of the tongue, as may be easily demonstrated by maceration, or boiling, when it can be detached entire : it is much thinner than in the skin : the intervals between the large papilla? are not filled up by it, but each papilla has a separate in- vestment from roof to summit. The deepest cells may sometimes be detached as a * These bodies are also found in considerable numbers at the side of the base of the tongue, just in front of the anterior pillars of the fauces. f See Engelmann, in Strieker's Handbook (New Syd Sjc s Trans ), vol. iii. p. 2. 314.—Taste-goblets. a. Central cell. b. Cortical cell.