363 SUBCLAVIAN. Trapezius to the posterior border of the Sterno-mastoid, to which may be added a short vertical incision meeting the preceding in its centre ; the Platysma and cervical fascia should be divided upon a director, and if the interval between the Trapezius and Sterno- mastoid muscles be insufficient for the performance of the operation, a portion of one or both may be divided. The external jugular vein will now be seen towards the inner side of the wound: this and the suprascapular and transverse cervical veins which terminate in it should be held aside, and if divided, both ends should be tied: the suprascapular artery should be avoided, and the Omo-hyoid muscle must now be looked for, and held aside if necessary. In the space beneath this muscle, careful search must be made for the vessel ; the deep fascia having been divided with the finger-nail or silver scalpel, the outer margin of the Scale- nus muscle must be felt for, and the ringer being guided by it to the first rib, the pulsation of the subclavian artery will be felt as it passes over the rib. The aneurism needle may then be passed around the vessel from before backwards, by which means the vein will be avoided, care being taken not to include a branch of the brachial plexus instead of the artery in the ligature. If the clavicle is so raised by the tumour that the application of the ligature cannot be effected in this situation, the artery may be tied above the first rib, or even behind the Scalenus muscle; the difficulties of the operation in such a case will be mate- rially increased, on account of the greater depth of the artery, and the alteration in position of the surrounding parts. The second part of the subclavian artery, from being that portion which rises highest in the neck, has been considered favourable for the application of the ligature, when it is difficult to tie the artery in the third part of its course. There are, however, many objections to the operation in this situation. It is necessary to divide the Scalenus anticus muscle, upon which lies the phrenic nerve, and at the inner side of which is situated the internal jugular vein ; and a wound of either of these structures might lead to the most dangerous consequences. Again, the artery is in contact, below, with the pleura, which must also be avoided ; and, lastly, the proximity of so many of its larger branches arising internal to this point, must be a still further objection to the operation. If, however, it has been determined to perform the operation in this situation, it should be remembered that it occasionally happens, that the artery passes in front of the Scalenus anticus, or through the fibres of that muscle; and that the vein sometimes passes with the artery behind the Scalenus anticus. In those cases of aneurism of the axillary or subclavian artery which encroach upon the outer portion of the Scalenus muscle to such an extent that a ligature cannot be applied in that situation, it may be deemed advisable, as a last resource, to tie the first portion of the subclavian artery. On the left side, this operation is almost impracticable; the great depth of the artery from the surface, its intimate relation with the pleura, and its close proximity to the thoracic duct and to so many important veins and nerves, present a series of difficulties which it is next to impossible to overcome.* On the right side, the operation is practicable, and has been performed, though not with success. The main objection to the operation in this situation is the smallness of the interval which usually exists between the commence- ment of the vessel and the origin of the nearest branch. This operation may be performed in the following manner:—The patient being placed on the table in the horizontal position, with the neck extended, an incision should be made parallel with the posterior border of the inner part of the clavicle, and a second along the inner border of the Sterno-mastoid, meeting the former at an angle. The sternal attachment of the Sterno-mastoid may now be divided on a director, and turned outwards ; a few small arteries and veins, and occasionally the anterior jugular, must be avoided, and the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles divided in the same manner as the preceding muscle. After tearing through the deep fascia with the finger-nail, the internal jugular vein will be seen crossing the subclavian artery; this should be pressed aside, and the artery secured by passing the needle from below upwards, by which the pleura is more effectually avoided. The exact position of the vagus nerve, the recurrent laryngeal, the phrenic and sympathetic nerves should be remembered, and the ligature should be applied near the origin of the vertebral, in order to afford as much room as possible for the formation of a coagulum between the ligature and the origin of the vessel. It should be remembered, that the right subclavian artery is occa- sionally deeply placed in the first part of its course, when it arises from the left side of the aortic arch, and passes in such cases behind the oesophagus, or between it and the trachea. Collateral Circulation. After ligature of the third part of the subclavian artery, the collateral circulation is mainly established b}r three sets of vessels, thus described in a dis- section : — ' I. A posterior set, consisting of the suprascapular and posterior scapular branches of the subclavian, which anastomosed with the infrascapular from the axillary.'. ' 2. An internal set produced by the connection of the internal mammary on the one hand, with the short and long thoracic arteries, and thefinfrascapular ,on the other. ' 3. A middle or axillary set, which consisted of a number of small vessels derived from branches of the subclavian, above ; and passing through the axilla, to terminate either in the main trunk, or some of the branches of the axillary below. This last set presented most * The operation was, however, performed in New York, by J)r. J. K. Rodgers, and the case is related in A System of Surgery, edited by T. Holmes, 2nd ed. vol. iii. pp. 620, &c.