THE STOMACH. 651 which extend and support the epithelium. The mucous glands are most numerous at the pyloric end of the stomach, and consist of two or three short, closed tubes opening into a common duct, the external orifice of which is situated at the bottom of an alveolus. The ceecal tubes are wavy, and are of about equal length with the duct. The tubes and duct are lined throughout by epithelium, which is continuous with the epithelium lining the surface of the mucous membrane, and like it is columnar in character. The peptic glands are found all over the surface of the stomach. Like the mucous glands they consist of a duct, into which open two or more caecal tubes. The duct, however, in these glands is shorter than in the other variety, sometimes not amounting to more than one-sixth of the whole length of the gland ; it is lined throughout by columnar epithelium. At the point where the terminal tubes open into the duct, and which is termed the neck, the epithelium alters, the cell becoming much shorter and opaque : the lumen also becomes suddenly constricted, and is continued down to the bottom of the tubes as a very fine channel. 362.—Minute Anatomy of Mucous Membrane of Stomach. Peptic Gastric Gland. Mucous Glands of Stomach. Here also are found, between the epithelium and the basement membrane, large spheroidal, coarsely granular cells, which have been termed peptic cells, and which produce an outward bulging of the basement membrane. They are seen throughout the remainder of the tube at intervals, and give it a beaded or varicose appearance. Below the neck, the terminal tubes, in addition to these isolated spheroidal cells, are occupied with finely granular, angular cells (columnar, Klein), leaving only a small channel in the centre. They are continuous with the short columnar cells of the neck, and are termed the central or chief cells, because they are believed to be principally concerned in the secretion of the gastric juice. The peptic cells, which were formerly supposed to possess this office, are now termed parietal cells. Between the glands the mucous membrane consists of a connective framework, with lymphoid tissue. In places this latter tissue, especially in early life, is collected into little masses, which to a certain extent resemble the solitary glands of the intestine, and are by some termed the lenticular glands of the stomach. They are not, however, so distinctly