ARTERIES. 334 carotid, and, ascending obliquely to the upper border of the right sterno-clavicular articulation, divides into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. This vessel varies from an inch and a half to two inches in length Relations. In front, it is separated from the first bone of the sternum by the Sterno hyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles, the remains of the thymus gland, and the left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins which cross its root. Behind, it lies upon the trachea, which it crosses obliquely. On the right side, is the right vena innominata, right pneumogastric nerve, and the pleura; and on the left side, the remains of the thymus gland, and origin of the left carotid artery. Plan of the Relations op the Innominate Artery. In Front. Sternum. Sternohyoid and Sterno-thyroid muscles. Remains of thymus gland. Left innominate and right inferior thyroid veins. Inferior cervical cardiac branch from right pneumogastric nerve. Rigid side. Right vena innominata. Right pneumogastric nerve Pleura. Behind. Trachea. Peculiarities in point of division. When the bifurcation of the innominate artery varies from the point above mentioned, it sometimes ascends a considerable distance above the sternal end of the clavicle ; less frequently it divides below it. In the former class of cases, its length may exceed two inches ; and, in the latter, be reduced to an inch or less. These are points of considerable interest for the surgeon to remember in connection with the opera- tion of tying this vessel. Branches. The arteria innominata occasionally supplies a thyroid branch (thyroidea ima or media), which ascends along the front of the trachea to the thyroid gland ; and sometimes, a thymic or bronchial branch. The left carotid is frequently joined with the innominate artery at its origin. Sometimes, there is no innominate artery, the right sub- clavian arising directly from the arch of the aorta. Position. When the aorta arches over to the right side, the innominate is directed to the left side of the neck instead of the right. Collateral circulation. Allan Bums demonstrated, on the dead subject, the possibility of the establishment of the collateral circulation after ligature of the innominate artery, by tying and dividing that artery, after which, he says, ' Even coarse injection impelled into the aorta, passed freely by the anastomosing branches into the arteries of the right arm, filling them and all the vessels of the head completely.' {Surgical Anatomy of the Head and Neck, p. 62.) The branches by which this circulation would be carried on are very numerous; thus, all the communications across the middle fine between the branches of the carotid arteries of opposite sides would be available for the supply of blood to the right side of the head and neck; while the anastomosis between the superior intercostal of the subclavian and the first aortic intercostal (see infra on the collateral circulation after obliteration of the thoracic aorta), would bring the blood, by a free and direct course,into the right subclavian: the numerous connections, also, between the lower intercostal arteries and the branches of the axillary and internal mammary arteries would, doubtless, assist in the supply of blood to the right arm, while the epigastric, from the external iliac, would, by means of its anasto- mosis with the internal mammary, compensate for any deficiency in the vascularity of the wall of the chest. Surgical Anatomy. Although the operation of tying the innominate artery has been per- formed by several surgeons, for aneurism of the right subclavian extending inwards as far as the Scalenus, in only one instance has it been attended with success.* Mott's patient, how- ever, on whom the operation was first performed, lived nearly four weeks, and Graefe's more than two months. The main obstacles to the operation are, as the student will perceive from his dissection of this vessel, the deep situation of the artery behind and beneath the sternum, and the number of important structures which surround it in every part. * The operation was performed by Dr. Smyth of New Orleans. See the New Sydenham Society's 'Biennial Retrospect,' for 1865-6, p. 346. Left side. Remains of thymus. Left carotid.