586 ORGANS OF SENSE. The nerves are, the olfactory, the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary, the Vidian, naso-palatine, descending anterior palatine, and nasal branches of Meckel's ganglion. The olfactory, the special nerve of the sense of smell, is distributed over the upper third of the septum, and over the surface of the superior and middle spongy bones. The nasal branch of the ophthalmic distributes filaments to the upper and ante- rior part of the septum, and outer wall of the nasal fossae. Filaments from the anterior dental branch of the superior maxillary supply the inferior meatus and inferior turbinated bone. The Vidian nerve supplies the upper and back part of the septurn, and superior spongy bone; and the upper anterior nasal branches from the spheno-palatine ganglion, have a similar distribution. The nasopalatine nerve supplies the middle of the septum. The larger, or anterior palatine nerve, supplies the middle and lower spongy bones. The Eve. The eyeball is contained in the cavity of the orbit. In this situation it is securely protected from injury, whilst its position is such as to ensure the most extensive range of sight. It is acted upon by numerous muscles, by which it is capable of being directed to any part, supplied by vessels and nerves, and is additionally protected in front by several appendages, such as the eyebrow, eye- lids, &c. The eyeball is imbedded in the fat of the orbit, but is surrounded by a thin membranous sac, which isolates it, so as to allow of free movement. This mem- branous sac is named the capsule of Tenon, or tunica vaginalis oculi. It may be regarded as a distinct serous membrane, consisting of a parietal and visceral layer. The latter invests the posterior part of tlie globe and is connected to it by very delicate connective tissue; the former, (parietal) lines the hollow in the fat in which the eyeball is imbedded. Both layers are lined on their free surfaces by flattened epithelial cells. Lymphatic vessels are said to open on these surfaces by stomata. The eyeball is spherical in form, having the segment of a smaller and more prominent sphere engrafted upon its anterior part. It is from this circumstance that the antero-posterior diameter of the eyeball, which measures about an inch, exceeds the transverse diameter by about a line. The segment of the larger sphere, which forms about five-sixths of the globe, is opaque and formed by the sclerotic, the tunic of protection to the eyeball; the smaller sphere, which forms the remaining sixth, is transparent, and formed by the cornea. The axes of the eyeballs are nearly parallel, and do not correspond to the axes of the orbits, which are directed outwards. The optic nerves follow the direction of the axes of the orbits, and enter the eyeball a little to their inner or nasal side. The eyeball is composed of several investing tunics, and of fluid and solid refracting media, called humours. The tunics are three in number :—■ 1. Sclerotic and Cornea. 2. Choroid, Iris, and Ciliary Processes. 3. Eetina. The refracting media, or humours, are also three :— Aqueous. Crystalline (lens) and Capsule. Vitreous. The sclerotic and cornea form the external tunic of the eyeball; they are essentially fibrous in structure, the sclerotic being opaque, and forming the posterior five-sixths of the globe; the cornea, which forms the remaining sixth, being trans- parent. The Sclerotic (ai<\r)p6s, hard) (fig. 319) has received its name from its extreme