THE SMALL INTESTINES. 655 They are not found at the commencement of the duodenum, but begin to appear about one or two inches beyond the pylorus. In the lower part of the descending portion, below the point where the common choledic and pancreatic ducts enter the intestine, they are very large and closely approximated. In the transverse portion of the duodenum and upper half of the jejunum they are large and numerous ; and from this point, down to the middle of the ileum they diminish considerably in size. In the lower part of the ileum they almost entirely disappear; hence the compara- tive thinness of this portion of the intestine, as compared with the duodenum and jejunum. The valvulse conniventes retard the passage of the food along the intes- tines, and afford a more extensive surface for absorption. The villi are minute, highly vascular processes, projecting from the mucous mem- brane of the small intestine throughout its whole extent, and giving to its surface a 364.—Diagrammatic Section of a Villus. ep. Epithelium only partially shaded in. /. Central chyle-vessel; the cells forming the vessel have been legs shaded to distinguish them from the cells of the parenchyma of the villus, m. Muscle-fibres running up by the side of the chyle-vessel. It will he noticed that each muscle fibre is surrounded by the reticulum, and by this reticulum the muscles are attached to the cells forming the membrana propria, as at «?, or to the reticulum of the villus. k. Lymph-corpuscles, marked by a spherical nucleus and a clear zone of protoplasm. I'. Upper limit of the chyle- vessel, e, e, tf. Cells forming the membrana propria. It will be seen that there is hardly any difference between the cells of the parenchyma, the endothelium of the upper part of the chyle-vessel, and the cells of the mem- brana propria. V. Blood-vessels, z. Dark line at the base of the epithelium formed by the reticulum. It will be seen that the reticulum penetrates between all the other elements of the villus. The reticulum contains thicken- ings or ' nodal points.' The diagram shows that the cells of the upper part of the villus are larger and contain a larger zone of protoplasm than those of the lower part. The cells of the upper part of the chyle-vessel differ somewhat from those of the lower part, in that they more nearly resemble the cells of the parenchyma. velvety appearance. In shape some are triangular and laminated, others conical or cylindrical, with clubbed or filiform extremities. They are largest and most numerous in the duodenum and jejunum, and become fewer and smaller in the ileum. Krausc estimates their number in the upper part of the small intestine at from fifty to ninety in a square line ; and in the lower part from forty to seventy; the total number for the whole length of the intestine being about four millions. The structure of the villi has been studied recently by many eminent anatomists. We shall here follow the description of Dr. Watney,* whose researches have a most important bearing on the physiology of that which is the peculiar function of this part of the intestine, the absorption of fat. * Phil. Trans, vol. clxvi. pt. 2.