THE LIVER 671 of the organ, terminating in its fibrous coat, in stellate plexuses. Finally, it ter- minates in a plexus formed on the outer surface of each lobule, by the ultimate rami- fications of the portal vein, and termed the interlobular plexus. The portal vein (fig. 380) also enters at the transverse fissure and runs through the portal canals, enclosed in Glisson's capsule, dividing into branches in its course, which finally break up into a plexus (the interlobular plexus) in the interlobular spaces between the lobules. In their course they receive the vaginal and capsular veins, corresponding to the vaginal and capsular branches of the hepatic artery (fig. 3S0). Thus it will be seen that all the blood carried to the liver by the portal vein and hepatic artery, directly or indirectly, finds its way into the interlobular plexus. From this plexus the blood is carried into the lobule by capillary vessels which pierce its wall, and then converge from the circumference to the centre of the lobule; forming a number of longitudinal vessels, which are connected by transverse or horizontal branches (tig. 381). In the interstices of the network of vessels thus formed are situated, as before said, the liver cells; and here it is that, the blood being brought into intimate connection with the liver cells, the bile is secreted. Arrived at the centre of the lobule, all these minute vessels empty themselves into one vein, of Horizontal section of liver (flop). The vena porta; has been injected, a. Trunk of interlobular vein. b. Trunk of intralobular vein. A dense system of capillary vessels is between them. considerable size, which runs down the centre of the lobules from apex to base, and is called the intralobular vein. At the base of the lobule this vein opens directly into the evMobular vein, with which the lobule is connected, and which, as before men- tioned, is a radicle of the hepatic vein. The sublobular veins, uniting into larger and larger trunks, end at last in the hepatic veins, which do not receive any intra- lobular veins. Finally, the hepatic veins, as mentioned at p. 449, converge to form three large trunks which open into the vena cava inferior, while that vessel is situated in the fissure appropriated to it at the back of the liver. 3, The Ducts.—Having shown bow the blood is brought into intimate relation with the hepatic cells in order that the bile may be secreted, it remains now only to consider the way in which the secretion, having been formed, is carried away, Several views have prevailed as to the mode of origin of the hepatic ducts ; it seems, however, to be clear that they commence by little passages which are formed between the cells, and which have been termed intercellular biliary passages, or bile c«/n'llaries (fig. 382). These passages are merely little channels or interspaces left between the contiguous surfaces of two cells, or in the angle where three or more liver cells meet (fig. 382, c and d), and it seems doubtful whether there is any delicate membrane forming the wall of the space. The channels thus formed radiate to the