n8 THE SKELETON. angular. It is bounded by a thin uneven margin, to which a strong membrane is attached; and presents, at its upper and outer part, a deep groove, which runs from the pelvis obliquely forwards, inwards, and downwards. This groove is con- verted into a foramen by the obturator membrane, and transmits the obturator vessels and nerve. Structure. This bone consists of much cancellous tissue, especially where it is thick, enclosed between two layers of dense compact tissue. In the thinner parts 99.—Plan of the Development of the Os Innounnatum. The 3 Friinury cc/nlrcS'unltc ihrougJi YS7ir//icti'filcce}eiloutJiui<:'Ay J?j>iji>7iyscs ajyjear about jjubcj-lyf unite, about 25^! l/eaT of the bone, as at the bottom of the acetabulum and centre of the iliac fossa, it is usually semi-transparent, and composed entirely of compact tissue. Development (fig. 99). By eight centres : three primary—one for the ilium, one for the ischium, and one for the pubes ; and five secondary—one for the crest of the ilium its whole length, one for the anterior inferior spinous process (said to occur more frequently in the male than the female), one for the tuberosity of the ischium, one for the symphysis pubis (more frequent in the female than the male), and one for the Y-shaped piece at the bottom of the acetabulum. These various centres appear in the following order : First, in the ilium, at the lower part of the bone, immediately above the sciatic notch, at about the same period that the develop- ment of the vertebrae commences. Secondly, in the body of the ischium, at about the third month of foetal life. Thirdly, in the body of the pubes, between the fourth and fifth months. At birch, the three primary centres are quite separate, the crest, the bottom of the acetabulum, and the rami of the ischium and pubes, being still cartilaginous. At about the sixth year, the rami of the pubes and ischium are almost completely ossified. About the thirteenth or fourteenth year, the three divisions of the bone have extended their growth into the bottom of the acetabu- lum, being separated from each other by a Y-shaped portion of cartilage, which now presents traces of ossification. The ilium and ischium then become joined, and lastly the pubes, through the intervention of this Y-shaped portion. At about