lxxxix THE NERVES. into which the fibrils run, diverging as they approach it. The investing capsules are from thirty to sixty in number, the outer being more separated from each other, as if by a clear fluid, while the inner are closely applied together. Schultze calls attention to the striking resemblance in all essential particulars between these corpuscles and Krause's end-bulb above described.* In the special organs the nerves end in various ways, which hitherto are not perfectly known. Hoyer and Cohnheim have described the nerves of the cornea as ter- minating in primitive fibrillae, which run between the cells forming the pavement-epithelium of that membrane, and end on its free surface. This, however, is doubted by Hulke,f who has only succeeded in tracing them as far as the middle tier of the epithelial cells. Schultze discovers in the olfactory mucous membrane, lying between the cells of its epithelium, spindle-shaped cells, each possessing a central and a peripheral process—the central process being, according to him, continuous with a primitive fibril of the olfactory nerve, and the peripheral process either ending on the free surface of the epithelium, as is the case in men, mammals, and fishes, or, as in some other animals, prolonged into a long stiff hair. These cells he has denominated ' olfactory cells '; and similar cells have been described by Axel Key, Schwalbe, and Loven, in the papilla circumvallatae of man, and the fungi- form papillae of the frog (' taste-cells '). The fibres also of the optic nerve have, according to Schultze, a similar connection with the cells (' sight-cells ') of the retina; and cells somewhat similar, and connected with processes that pass through the epithelium, are to be found on the nerve-fibrils of the auditory nerve, in the membranous labyrinth (' hearing-cells '). The termination of the nerves in the hair-bulbs is probably to be found in the papillae at their root, as is also the case in the teeth. In glands, the nerves, according to Pfliiger, are connected with the caecal commencements of the gland-tubes—at least he has described this arrangement in the salivary glands, and thus he is led to regard the nuclei of these caecal pouches as the terminations of the nerves. Motor nerves are to be traced either into unstriped or striped fibres. In the unstriped fibres it appears from the researches of Beale, Frank- enhtiuser, and Julius Arnold, that the ultimate fibrils of the nerves form plexuses at the junctions of whose branches small nuclear bodies are situated. These nuclei are regarded by Arnold as the real terminations of the nerves ; for although he agrees with Frankenhauser in stating that the nervous filaments penetrate the muscular fibres, and enter into relation with the granular contents of the nuclei, he traces the filaments back again from that point to the nuclei situated at the junctions of the nervous plexuses, in the connective tissue of the muscular fibres. In the voluntary muscles, Beale and Kolliker have described the nerve- fibres as terminating either in a plexiform arrangement, or (according to the latter author) sometimes in free ends between the muscular fibres external to the sarcolemma. Lately another method of termination, which had been formerly described, has received the support of numerous eminent authorities—viz., the ' motorial end-plates'1 of Kuhne, or 'nerve-hillocks' (nerve-tufts) of Doyere. * Strieker's Hmidbuch, p. 123. f Lectures on the Histology of the Eye, at the Royal College of Surgeons, June 1869,