ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 626 from these two elements, the enamel from the epithelium which covers the surface of the dental groove, the dentine and crusta petrosa from the deeper structures. First as to the enamel. The epithelium becomes heaped np ever the margins of the dental groove, and then passes down into it; and as the sides of the groove rise up, the epithelial mass (or ' enamel organ') seems to pass deeper and deeper into the substance of the jaw, meeting with the papilla, presently to be described, from which the dentine or bulk of the tooth is developed, and assuming the form of a flask or cap united to the superficial layer of epithelium by a neck, bridge, or str ing of epi- thelium. This string is the gubernaculum or future enamel organ of the permanent tooth. As the dental papilla grows up from the bottom of the groove, the enamel organ folds itself over it in the form of a cap, or capsule, presenting an outer and 345.—Vertical Section of the Inferior Maxilla of an early Human Foetus. (Magnified 25 diams.) t. nental grnove. 2. Remains of the enamel germ. 3. Enamel organ, presenting externally epithelium, as also where it forms the enamel germ of the papillfe of the dental sacculus. 4. Secondary enamel germ ; rudiment of the permanent tooth. 5. Dental germ. 6. Lower jaw. 7. Meckel's cartilage. inner surface, still epithelial (fig. 346), and an intermediate portion undergoing development into the proper enamel-tissue. The epithelial covering on the outer surface of the enamel long remains distinctly perceptible. After the tooth has emerged from the gum, this layer may be separated from the calcined mass below by the action of strong acids, in the form of a membrane (cuticula dentis, Nasmyth's membrane) marked by the hexagonal impressions of the enamel prisms, and when stained by nitrate of silver showing the characteristic appearance of epithelium. This membrane soon wears away from the surface of the tooth. The bulk of the enamel is formed by the calcification of the epithelial cells, which are changed into hexagonal prisms, the communication of which with each other forms the hexagonal rods of the mature enamel; but the exact relation of the embry- onic cells to the future rods, and the precise reason of the appearance of the trans- verse stria? on the latter, have not yet been satisfactorily demonstrated. The calcifi- cation of the successive layers of epithelium is preceded by the production of a gelatinous mass (the ' enamel jelly') between the investing epithelium and the calci- fying tissue. As the epithelium is undergoing this remarkable development a projection of the mucous tissue (blastema, or corium) of the infantile jaw springs up to meet it out of the bottom of the dental groove. This projection was described, by Goodsir, as a row of separate papillae. It is now described, after Dursy and Waldeyer, as a ridge, the intervening parts of which are atrophied, so as to leave papillae, which become coated all over by the ename lorgan, and thus the saccular stage of the teeth is produced,