343 FACIAL the face, is remarkably tortuous ; in the former situation, to accommodate itself to the movements of the pharynx in deglutition; and in the latter, to the move- ments of the jaw, and the lips and cheeks. Relations. In the neck, its origin is superficial, heing covered by the integument, Platysma, and fascia; it then passes beneath the Digastric and Stylo-hyoid muscles, and the submaxillary gland. On the face, where it passes over the body of the lower jaw, it is comparatively superficial, lying immediately beneath the Platysma. In this situation, its pulsation may be distinctly felt and compression of the vessel effectually made against the bone. In its course over the face, it is covered by the integument, the fat of the cheek, and, near the angle of the mouth, by the Platysma and Zygomatic muscles. It rests on the Buccinator, the Levator anguli oris, and the Levator labii superioris. It is accompanied by the facial vein throughout its entire course ; the vein is not tortuous like the artery, and, on the face, is separated from that vessel by a considerable interval, lying to its outer side. The blanches of the facial nerve cross the artery, and the infra-orbital nerve lies beneath it. The branches of this vessel may be divided into two sets, those given off below the jaw (cervical), and those on the face (facial): The inferior or ascending palatine (fig. 216) passes up between the Stylo-glossus and Stylo-pharyngeus to the outer side of the pharynx. After supplying these muscles, the tonsil, and Eustachian tube, it divides, near the Levator palati, into two branches; one follows the course of the Tensor palati, and supplies the soft palate and the palatine glands; the other passes to the tonsil, which it supplies, anastomosing with the tonsillar artery. These vessels inosculate with the posterior palatine branch of the internal maxillary artery. The tonsillar branch (fig. 216) passes up along the side of the pharynx, and, perforating the Superior constrictor, ramifies in the substance of the tonsil and root of the tongue. The submaxillary consist of three or four large branches, which supply the submaxillary gland, some being prolonged to the neighbouring muscles, lymphatic glands, and integument. The submental, the largest of the cervical branches, is given off from the facial artery, just as that vessel quits the submaxillary gland; it runs forwards upon the Mylo-hyoid muscle, just below the body of the jaw, and beneath the Digastric; after supplying the muscles attached to the jaw, and anastomosing with the sub- lingual artery, it arrives at the symphysis of the chin, where it divides into a superficial and deep branch; the former turns round the chin, and, passing between the integument and Depressor labii infeiioris, supplies both, and anasto- moses with the inferior labial. The deep branch passes beneath the latter muscle and the bone, supplies the lip, and anastomoses with the inferior labial and mental arteries. The muscular branches are distributed to the internal Pterygoid, Masseter, and Buccinator. The inferior labial passes beneath the Depressor anguli oris, to supply the muscles and integument of the lower lip, anastomosing with the inferior coronary, and submental branches of the facial, and with the mental branch of the inferior dental artery. The inferior coronary is derived from the facial artery, near the angle of the mouth; it passes upwards and inwards beneath the Depressor anguli oris, and, penetrating the Orbicularis muscle, runs in a tortuous course along the edge of Cervical Branches. Faded Branches. Inferior or Ascending Palatine, Tonsillar. Submaxillary. Submental. Muscular. Inferior Labial. Inferior Coronary. Superior Coronary. Lateralis Nasi. Angular.