ARTICULATIONS. part of the carpo-metacarpal articulation ; they connect the contiguous inferior angles of the os magnum and unciform with the adjacent surfaces of the third and fourth metacarpal bones. The Synovial Membrane is a continuation of that between the two rows of carpal bones. Occasionally, the articulation of the unciform with the fourth and fifth metacarpal bones has a separate synovial membrane. The Synovial membranes of the wrist (fig. 136) are thus seen to be five in 136.—Vertical Section through the Articulations at the Wrist, showing the Five Synovial Membranes. 1 number. The first, the membrana sacciformis, passes from the lower end of the ulna \to the sigmoid cavity of the radius, and lines the upper siu\face of the triangular fibro-cartilage. The second passes from the lower end of the radius and interarticular fibro-cartilage above, to the bones of the first row below. The third, the most exten- sive, passes between the contiguous margins of the two rows of carpal bones; between the bones of the second row to the carpal extremities of the four inner metacarpal bones. The fourth from the margin of the trapezium to the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The fifth between the adjacent margins of the cuneiform and pisiform bones. Actions. The movement permitted in the carpo-metacarpal articulations is limited to a slight gliding of the articular surfaces upon each other, the extent of which varies in the different joints. Thus the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium is most moveable, then the fifth metacarpal, and then the fourth. The second and third are almost immoveable. In the articulation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb with the trapezium, the movements permitted are flexion, extension, adduction, abduction, and circumduction. 3. Articulations of the Metacarpal Bones with each other. The carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones articulate with one another at each side by small surfaces covered with cartilage, and connected together by dorsal, palmar, and interosseous ligaments. The Dorsal and Palmar Ligaments pass transversely from one bone to another on the dorsal and palmar surfaces. The Interosseous Ligaments pass between their contiguous surfaces, just beneath their lateral articular facets.