527 EIGHTH. SPINAL ACCESSORY. PNEUMOGASTRIC. Its branches of communication are three, and occupy separate grooves on the surface of the promontory. One of these arches forwards and downwards to the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. A second runs vertically upwards to join the greater superficial petrosal nerve, as it lies in the hiatus Fallopii. The third branch runs upwards and forwards through the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In its course it passes by the ganglionic enlargement of the facial nerve, and receiving a connecting filament from it, becomes the lesser superficial petrosal nerve. This nerve enters the skull through a small aperture, situated ex- ternal to the hiatus Fallopii on the anterior surface of the petrous bone; courses forwards across the base of the skull and emerges through a foramen in the middle fossa (sometimes the foramen ovale), and joins the otic ganglion. The carotid brandies descend along the trunk of the internal carotid artery as far as its point of bifurcation, communicating with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric, and with branches of the sympathetic. The j)haryngeal branches are three or four filaments which unite opposite the Middle constrictor of the pharynx with the pharyngeal branches of the pneumogastric, the external laryngeal, and sympathetic nerves, to form the pharyngeal plexus, branches from which perforate the muscular coat of the pharynx to supply the muscles and mucous membrane. The muscular branches are distributed to the Stylo-pharyngeus. The tonsillar branches supply the tonsil, forming a plexus (circulam tonsillaris) around this body, front which branches are distributed to the soft palate and fauces, where they communicate with the palatine nerves. The lingual branches are two in number: one supplies the mucous membrane covering the surface of the base of the tongue ; the other perforates its substance, and supplies the mucous membrane and papillae of the side of the organ. The Pneumogastric Nerve (nervus vagus or par vagum) has a more extensive distribution than any of the other cranial nerves, passing through the neck and thorax to the upper part of the abdomen. It is composed of both motor and sensitive filaments. It supplies the organs of voice and respiration with motor and sensitive fibres; and the pharynx, oesophagus, stomach, and heart with motor influence. Its superficial origin is by eight or ten filaments from the lateral tract immediately behind the olivary body and below the glosso-pharyngeal; its fibres may, however, be traced deeply through the fasciculi of the medulla, to terminate in a grey nucleus near the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle. The filaments become united, and form a flat cord, which passes outwards across the flocculus to the jugular foramen, through which it emerges from the cranium. In passing through this opening, the pneumogastric accompanies the spinal accessory, being contained in the same sheath of dura mater with it, a membranous septum separating it from the glosso-pharyngeal, which lies in front. The nerve in this situation presents a well- marked ganglionic enlargement, which is called ganglion jugulare, or the ganglion 0/ the root of the pneumogastric : to it the accessory part of the spinal accessory nerve is connected. After the exit of the nerve from the jugular foramen, a second gangliform swelling is formed upon it, called the ganglion inferius, or the ganglion of the trunk of the nerve; below which it is again joined by filaments from the accessory nerve. The nerve passes vertically down the neck within the sheath of the carotid vessels, lying between the internal carotid artery and internal jugular vein as far as the thyroid cartilage, and then between the same vein and the common carotid to the root of the neck. Here the course of the nerve becomes different on the two sides of the body. On the right side, the nerve passes across the subclavian artery between it and the subclavian vein, and descends by the side of the trachea to the back part of the root of the lung, where it spreads out in a plexiform network (posterior pulmonary), from the lower part of which two cords descend upon the oesophagus, on which they divide, forming, with branches from the opposite nerve, the oesophageal plexus (plexus guise); below, these branches are collected into a single cord, which runs along the back part of the oesophagus, enters the abdomen, and is distributed to the