603 THE EAR. gland is separated from the rest by a slight depression ; hence it is sometimes described as a separate lobe, called the 'palpebral portion of the gland. In structure and general appearance the lachrymal resembles the salivary glands (page 634). Its ducts, about seven in number, run obliquely beneath the mucous membrane for a short distance, and separating from each other, open by a series of minute orifices on the upper and outer half of the conjunctiva, near its reflection on to the globe. These orifices are arranged in a row, so as to disperse the secretion over the surface of the membrane. The lachrymal canals commence at the minute orifices, puncta lachrymalia, seen on the margin of the lids, at the outer extremity of the lacus lachrymalis. They commence on the summit of a slightly elevated papilla, the papilla lachrymalis, and lead into minute canals, the canaliculi, which proceed inwards to terminate in the lachrymal sac. The superior canal, the smaller and longer of the two, a.t first ascends, and then bends at an acute angle, and passes inwards and downwards to the lachrymal sac. The inferior canal at first descends, and then, abruptly changing its course, passes almost horizontally inwards. They are dense and elastic in structure and somewhat dilated at their angle. The lachrymal sac is the upper dilated extremity of the nasal duct, and is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lachrymal bone and nasal process of the superior maxillary. It is oval in form, its upper extremity being closed in and rounded, whilst below it is continued into the nasal duct. It is covered by the Tensor tarsi muscle and by a fibrous expansion derived from the tendo oculi, which is attached to the ridge on the lachrymal bone. In structure it consists of a fibrous elastic coat, lined internally by mucous membrane : the latter being continuous, through the canaliculi, with the mucous lining of the conjunctiva, and through the nasal duct with the pituitary membrane of the nose. The nasal duct is a membranous canal, about three-quarters of an inch in length, which extends from the lower part of the lachrymal sac to the inferior meatus of the nose, where it terminates by a somewhat expanded orifice, provided with an imperfect valve, the valve of Hasner, formed by the mucous membrane. It is contained in an osseous canal, formed by the superior maxillary, the lachrymal, and the inferior tur- binated bones, is narrower in the middle than at each extremity, and takes a direction downwards, backwards, and a little outwards. It is lined by mucous membrane, which is continuous below with the pituitary lining of the nose. In the canaliculi, this membrane is provided with scaly epithelium ; but in the lachrymal sac and nasal duct, the epithelium is ciliated, as in the nose. The organ of hearing has three parts : the external ear, the middle ear or tym- panum, and the internal ear or labyrinth. The external ear consists of an expanded portion named pinna or auricle, and the auditory canal, or meatus. The former serves to collect the vibrations of the air by which sound is produced, and the latter conducts those vibrations to the tympanum. The pinna or auricle (fig. 330), is formed by a layer of fibro-cartilage, covered with integument, and connected to the commencement of the auditory canal: it is of an ovoid form, its surface uneven, with its larger end directed upwards. Its outer surface is irregularly concave, directed slightly forwards, and presents numerous eminences and depressions which result from the foldings of its fibro-cartilaginous element. To each of these names have been assigned. Thus the external prominent rim of the auricle is called the helix. Another curved prominence parallel with, and in front of the helix, is called the antihelix; this bifurcates above, so as to enclose a triangular depression, the fossa of the antihelix. The narrow curved depression between the helix and antihelix is called the fossa of the helix (fossa innominata or scaphoidea); the antihelix describes a curve round a deep, capacious cavity, the concha, which is partially divided into two parts by the commencement of the helix. The Ear.