THE VEINS. xcvn a delicate nucleated membrane (adventitia), while the inner is composed of a network of longitudinal elastic fibres (intima). In the veins next above these in size (one-fifth of a line, according to Kolliker) a muscular layer and a layer of circular fibres can be traced, forming the middle coat, while the elastic and connective elements of the outer coat become more distinctly perceptible. In the middle-sized veins the typical structure of these vessels becomes clear. The epithelium is of the same character as in the arteries, but its cells are more oval, less fusiform. It is supported by a connective-tissue layer, consisting of a delicate network of branched cells, and external to this is a layer of elastic fibrous tissue. This constitutes the internal coat. The middle coat is composed of a thick inner layer of connective tissue with elastic fibres, having intermixed in some veins a transverse layer of muscular fibres; and an outer layer consisting of longitudinal elastic lamellae, varying from five to ten in number, alternating with layers of transverse muscular fibres and connective tissue, which resembles some- what in structure the middle coat of large arteries. The outer coat is similar in all essential respects to that of the arteries. In the large veins, as in the commencement of the vena portae, in the upper part of the abdominal portion of the inferior vena cava, and in the large hepatic trunks within the liver, the middle coat is thick, and its structure similar to that of the middle coat in medium-sized veins ; but its muscular tissue is scanty, and the longitudinal elastic network less distinctly lamellated. The muscular tissue of this coat is best marked in the splenic and portal veins ; it is absent in certain parts of the vena cava below the liver, and wanting in the subclavian vein and terminal parts of the two cavae. In the largest veins the outer coat is from two to five times thicker than the middle coat, and contains a large number of longitudinal mus- cular fibres. This is most distinct in the hepatic part of the inferior vena cava, and at the termination of this vein in the heart; in the trunks of the hepatic veins; in all the large trunks of the vena portae; in the splenic, superior mesenteric, external iliac, renal, and azygos veins. "Where the middle coat is absent, this muscular layer extends as far as the inner coat. In the renal and portal veins it extends through the whole thickness of the outer coat; but in the other veins mentioned a layer of connective and elastic tissues is found external to the muscular fibres. All the large veins which open into the heart are covered for a short distance with a layer of striped muscular tissue continued on to them from the heart. Muscular tissue is wanting in the veins— i. Of the maternal part of the placenta. 2. In most of the cerebral veins and sinuses of the dura mater. 3. In the veins of the retina. 4. In the veins of the cancellous tissue of bones. 5. In the venous spaces of the corpora cavernosa. The veins of the above-mentioned parts consist of an internal epithelial lining, supported on one or more layers of areolar tissue. Most veins are provided with valves, which serve to prevent the reflux of the blood. They are formed by a reduplication of the inner and part of the middle coat, and consist of connective tissue and elastic fibres covered on both surfaces by epithelium ; their form is semilunar. They are attached by their convex edge to the wall of the vein; the concave margin is free, directed in the course of the venous current, and lies in close apposition with the wall of the vein as long as the current of blood f