ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 650 thickly distributed, and continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the small intes- tine. The circular fibres form a uniform layer over the whole extent of the stomach beneath the longitudinal fibres. At the pylorus they are most abundant, and are aggregated into a circular ring, which projects into the cavity, and forms, with the fold of mucous membrane covering its surface, the pyloric valve. The oblique fibres are limited chiefly to the cardiac end of the stomach, where they are disposed as a thick uniform layer, covering both surfaces, some passing obliquely from left to right, others from right to left, round the cardiac orifice. The cellular coat consists of a loose, filamentous, areolar tissue, connecting the mucous and muscular layers. It is sometimes called the submucous coat. It supports the blood-vessels previous to their distribution to the mucous membrane; hence it is sometimes called the vascular coat. The mucous membrane of the stomach is thick; its surface smooth, soft, and velvety. During infancy, and immediately after death, it is of a pinkish tinge ; but 361.—The Muscular Coat of the Stomach. in adult life and in old age it becomes of a pale straw or ash-grey colour. It is thin at the cardiac extremity, but thicker towards the pylorus. During the contracted state of the organ it is thrown into numerous plaits or rugae, which, for the most part, have a longitudinal direction, and are most marked towards the lesser end of the stomach, and along the greater curvature (fig. 360). These folds are entirely obliterated when the organ becomes distended. Structure of the Mucous Membrane (fig. 362).—When examined with a lens, the inner surface of the mucous membrane presents a peculiar honeycomb appearance, from being covered with small shallow depressions or alveoli, of a polygonal or hexagonal form, which vary from y^-g- to ^-i^ of an inch in diameter, and are sepa- rated by slightly elevated ridges. In the bottom of the alveoli are seen the orifices of minute tubes, the gastric follicles, which are situated perpendicularly side by side, in the entire substance of the mucous membrane. The gastric follicles are of two kinds, which differ from each other in structure, and it is believed also in the nature of their secretion. From this fact they are named respectively mucous and peptic glands. They are both tubular in character, and are formed of a delicate basement membrane, supporting epithelium. The base- ment membrane consists of flattened transparent endothelial cells, with processes