LYMPHATICS the integument and superficial structures in those parts, or the sub-umbilical part of the abdomen or gluteal region, the upper chain of glands is almost inva- riably enlarged, the lower chain being implicated in diseases affecting the lower limb. The deep lymphatic glands are, the anterior tibial, popliteal, deep inguinal, gluteal, and ischiatic. The anterior tibial gland is not constant in its existence. It is gene- rally found by the side of the anterior tibial artery, upon the interosseous membrane at the upper part of the leg. Occasionally, two glands are found in this situation. The deep popliteal glands, four or five in number, are of small size; they surround the popliteal vessels, im- bedded in the cellular tissue and fat of the popliteal space. The dee]) inguinal glands are placed beneath the deep fascia around the fe- moral artery and vein. They are of small size, and communicate with the superficial inguinal glands through the saphenous opening. The gluteal and ischiatic glands are placed, the former above, the latter be- low, the Pyriformis muscle, resting on their corresponding vessels as they pass through the great sacro-sciatic foramen. The Lymphatics of the lower ex- tremity, like the veins, may be divided into two sets, superficial and deep. The superficial lymphatics are placed beneath the integument in the super- ficial fascia, and are divisible into two groups : an internal group, which fol- low the course of the internal saphenous vein; and an external group, which ac- company the external saphenous. The internal group, the larger, commences on the inner side and dorsum of the foot; they pass, some in front, and some behind the inner ankle, run up the leg with the internal saphenous vein, pass with it behind the inner condyle of the femur, and accompany it to the groin, where they terminate in the group of inguinal glands which surround the Faphenous opening. Some of the efferent vessels from these glands pierce the cribriform fascia and sheath of the fe- moral vessels, and terminate in a lym- phatic gland contained in the femoral 257.—The Superficial Lymphatics and Glands of the Lower Extremity.