769 THE SPERMATIC CANAL. transversalis with Poupart's ligament. That form of protrusion in which the intestine follows the course of the spermatic cord along the spermatic canal, is called oblique inguinal hernia. The fascia transversalis is a thin aponeurotic membrane, which lies between the inner surface of the Transversalis muscle and the peritoneum. It forms part of the general layer of fascia which lines the interior of the abdominal and pelvic cavities, and is directly continuous with the iliac and pelvic fasciae. In the inguinal region, the transversalis fascia is thick and dense in structure, and joined by fibres from the aponeurosis of the Transversalis; but it becomes thin and cellular as it ascends to the Diaphragm. Below, it has the following attach- ments : external to the femoral vessels it is connected to the posterior mai-gin of Poupart's ligament, and is there continuous with the iliac fascia. Internal to the vessels it is thin, and attached to the pubes and pectineal line, behind the conjoined 440.—Inguinal Hernia, showing the Transversalis Muscle, the Transversalis Fascia, and the Internal Abdominal Ring. tfndon, with which it is united ; and, corresponding to the points where the femoral vessels pass into the thigh, this fascia descends in front of them, forming the anterior1 wall of the crural sheath. The internal abdominal ring is situated in the transversalis fascia, midway between the anterior superior spine of the ilium and the spine of the pubes, and about half an inch above Poupart's ligament. It is of an oval form, the extremities of the oval directed upwards and downwards, varies in size in different subjects, and iH much larger in the male than in the female, It is bounded, above, by the arched fibres of the Transversalis muscle, and internally by the epigastric vessels. It transmits the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female, and from its circumference a thin, funnel-shaped membrane, the infmdibidiform fascia, is continued round the cord and testis, enclosing them in a distinct pouch. When the sac of an oblique inguinal hernia passes through the internal ring, the infundibuliform process of the transversalis fascia forms one of its coverings. Between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum is a quantity of loose areolar % 0