753 THE VULVA. frsenum. The nymphse are composed of mucous membrane, covered by a thin epithelial layer. They contain a plexus of vessels in their interior, and are provided with numerous large mucous crypts which secrete abundance of sebaceous matter. The clitoris is an erectile structure, analogous to the corpora cavernosa of the penis. It is situated beneath the anterior commissure, partially hidden between the anterior extremities of the labia minora. It is an elongated organ, connected to the rami of the pubes and ischia on each side by two crura; the body is short and con- cealed beneath the labia; the free extremity, or glans clitoridis, is a small rounded tubercle, consisting of spongy erectile tissue, and highly sensitive. The clitoris con- sists of two corpora cavernosa, composed of erectile tissue enclosed in a dense layer of fibrous membrane, united together along their inner surfaces by an incomplete fibrous pectiniform septum. It is provided, like the penis, with a suspensory ligament, 434.—Section of Female Pelvis, showing Position of Viscera. and with two small muscles, the Erectores clitoridis, which are inserted into the crura of the corpora cavernosa. Between the clitoris and the entrance of the vagina is a triangular smooth surface, bounded on each side by the nymphse ; this is the vestibule. The orifice of the urethra (meatus urinarius) is situated at the back part of the vestibule, about an inch below the clitoris, and near the margin of the vagina, sur- rounded by a prominent elevation of the mucous membrane. Below the meatus urinarius is the orifice of the vagina, an elliptical aperture, more or less closed in the virgin by a membranous fold, the hymen. The hymen is a thin semilunar fold of mucous membrane, stretched across the lower part of the orifice of the vagina ; its concave margin being turned upwards towards the pubes. Sometimes this membrane forms a complete septum across the orifice of the vagina—a condition known as imperforate hymen. Occasionally it forms