GENERAL ANATOMY. CXVl Fig. LXXIII.—Human ovum, from a middle-sized follicle. Magnified 350 times. . Vitelline membrane or zona pcllu- ciila. b. External border of the yolk and internal border of the vitelline membrane, c. Germinal vesicle and germinal spot. this, and in close contact with it, is the yolk or vitellus ; embedded in the substance of the yolk is a small vesicular body, the germinal reside (vesicle of Purkinge)—the nucleus of the cell; and this contains as its nucleolus a small spot—the macula germinativa, or the spot of Wagner. The zona pellucida, or vitelline membrane, is a thick, colourless, transparent membrane, which appears under the microscope as a bright ring, bounded externally and internally by a dark outline. It corresponds to the chorion of the impregnated ovum. The yolk consists of granular protoplasm— i.e. granules or globules of various sizes, em- bedded in a more or less viscid fluid. The smaller granules resemble pigment; the larger granules, which are in the greatest number at the periphery of the yolk, resemble fat-globules. In the human ovum the number of granules is comparatively small. The germinal vesicle consists of a fine, transparent, structureless menu brane, containing a watery fluid, in which are occasionally found a few- granules. It is about y^To-th of an inch in diameter, and in immature ova lies nearly in the centre of the yolk; but, as the ovum becomes developed, it approaches the surface, and enlarges much less rapidly than the yolk. The germinal spot occupies that part of the periphery of the germinal vesicle which is nearest to the periphery of the yolk. It is opaque, of a yellow colour, and finely granular in structure, measuring from -j^Votl1 to YiVoth of an inch. The phenomena attending the discharge of the ova from the Graafian vesicles, since they belong as much or more to the ordinary function of the ovary than to the general subject of the growth of the bod}-, are described with the anatomy of the ovaries in the body of the work. It should be added that in the mature ovarian ovum the germinal vesicle has disappeared. Some cells belonging to the membrana granulosa adhere for a time to the surface of the ovum, but these also soou disappear. The first changes in the ovum which take place upon conception appear to be as follows:—the spermatozoon penetrates the ovum,* the* effect of which is to bring it into contact with the yolk, and with the germinal vesicle contained in the yolk. It seems as if this normally occurs in the Fallopian tube.f and abnormally it may even take place in the peritoneal cavity. The first effect is to produce a cleavage and multi- plication of the yolk, which becomes first cleft into two masses, then into four, and so on, until at length a mulberry-like agglomeration of nucleated cells results (fig. LXX1Y.). These cells are sometimes termed vitelline spheres. Ova in which this segmentation extends over the whole yolk * See Newport, P/u'l. Trans. 1853, vol. ii. p. 233. This has been since confirmed by other observers on various lower animals, and may be assumed to be generally true. t Many physiologists, as BischofF and Dr. M. Barry, taught that the ovum is fecundated in the ovary, but the reasoning of Dr. Allen Thomson appears very cogent in proving that the usual spot at which the spermatozoon meets with the ovum is in the tube.