OENEFvAL ANATOMY; Ixiv tarsus ; the patella ; the sesamoid bones ; and the coccyx,* are still un- ossified. From the time of birth to the fourth year, osseous nuclei make their appearance also in these parts. At twelve years, in the pisiform bone. The number of ossific centres is different in different bones. In most of the short bones, ossification commences by a single point in the centres and proceeds towards the circumference. In the long bones, there is a central point of ossification for the shaft or diaphysis ; and one or more for each extremity, the epiphyses. That for the shaft is first to appear : those for the extremities appear later. The union of the epiphyses with the shaft takes place in the inverse order to that in which their ossification began; for although ossification commences latest in those epiphyses towards which the nutrient artery in the several bones is directed, they become joined to the diaphyses sooner than the epiphyses at the opposite extremity, with the exception of the fibula, the lower end of which com- mences to ossify at an earlier period than the upper end, but, nevertheless, is joined to the shaft earliest. The order in which the epiphyses become united to the shaft appears to be regulated by the direction of the nutrient artery of the bone. Thus, the nutrient arteries of the bones of the arm and fore-arm are directed towards the elbow, and the epiphyses of the bones forming this joint become united to the shaft before those at the opposite extremity. In the lower extremities, on the contrary, the nutrient arteries pass in a direction from the knee ; that is, upwards in the femur, downwards in the tibia and fibula : and in them it is observed that the upper epiphysis of the femur, and the lower epiphyses of the tibia and fibula, become first united to the shaft. Where there is only one epiphysis, the medullary artery is directed towards that end of the bone where there is no additional centre : as, towards the acromial end in the clavicle; towards the distal end of the metacarpal bone of the thumb and great toe ; and towards the proximal end of the other metacarpal and metatarsal bones. Besides these epiphyses for the articular ends, there arc others for pro- jecting parts, or processes, which are formed separately from the bulk of the bone. For an account of these the reader must be referred to the description of the individual bones in the sequel. A knowledge of the exact periods when the epiphysi s become joined to the shaft is often of great importance in medico-legal inquiries; It also aids the surgeon in the diagnosis of many of the injuries to which the joints are liable; for it not unfrequently happens that, on the application of severe force to a joint, the epiphyses become separated from the shaft, and such injuries may be mistaken for fracture or dislocation. MUSCULAR TISSUE. The muscles arc formed of bundles of reddish fibres, endowed with the property of contractility. Two kinds of muscular tissue are found in the animal body, viz. that of voluntary or animal lite, and that of involuntary or organic life. * On tbe development of the coccyx, vide infiu, p. 17.