77i DIRECT INGUINAL HERNIA. external ring, the division of a few fibres at one point of its circumference is all that is necessary for the replacement of the hernia. If in the inguinal canal, or at the internal ring, it will be necessary to divide the aponeurosis of the External oblique so as to lay open the inguinal canal. In dividing the stricture, the direction of the incision should be upwards. When the intestine passes along the spermatic canal, and escapes from the ex- ternal ring into the scrotum, it is called complete oblique inguinal, or scrotal hernia. If the intestine does not escape from the external ring, but is retained in the inguinal canal, it is called incomplete inguinal hernia, or bubonocele. In each of these cases, the coverings which invest it will depend upon the extent to which it descends in the inguinal canal. There are two other varieties of oblique inguinal hernia—the congenital and infantile. 441.—Varieties of Oblique Inguinal Hernia. VAGINALIS VAGINALIS VAGINALIS A B C a. Common scrotal hernia, showing the relation of the sac to the tunica vaginalis. B. Congenital hernia, the sac being continuous with the tunica vaginalis, c. Infantile hernia, showing the relation of the 6acto the tunica vaginalis, the latter being prolonged in front of the sac. Congenital hernia (fig. 441,6) is liable to occur in those cases where the pouch of peritoneum which accompanies the cord and testis in its descent in the foetus remains unclosed, and communicates directly with the peritoneum. The intestine descends along this pouch into the cavity of the tunica vaginalis, and lies in contact with the testis.- This form of hernia has no proper eac, being contained within the tunica vaginalis. In infantile hernia (encysted) (fig. 441,0) the pouch of peritoneum forming the tunica vaginalis becomes obliterated, at its upper part, generally at or near the external abdominal ring; below this the pouch does not become closed, but forms a large pouch in which the testicle is contained. The hernial sac descends along the inguinal canal, and enters the scrotum behind the tunica vaginalis. As it descends it becomes more or less completely invested by the posterior layer of the tunica vaginalis, from which it is separated by a little loose areolar tissue : so that in operating upon this variety of hernia three layers of peritoneum would require division ; the first and second being the layers of the tunica vaginalis, the third the anterior layer of the hernial sac. Direct Inguinal Hernia. In direct ingtrinal hernia the protrusion makes its way through some part of the abdominal wall internal to the epigastric artery, and passes directly through the abdominal parietes and external ring. At the lower part of the abdominal wall is a triangular space [Hesselbach's triangle), bounded, externally, by the epigastric artery J internally, by the margin of the Rectus muscle; below, by Poupart's ligament. The conjoined tendon is stretched across the inner two-thirds of this space, the remaining portion of the space being filled in by the transvel'salis fascia. 3 r> 2