OEGANS OF DIGESTION. 674 openings of mucous glands, but are merely the orifices of tubular recesses, which occasionally anastomose, and from the sides of which saccular dilatations are given off. The Pancreas. Dissection.—The pancreas may be exposed for dissection in three different ways: I. By raising the liver, drawing down the stomach, and tearing through the gastro-hepatic omentum and the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. 2. By raising the stomach, the arch of the colon, and great omentum, and then dividing the inferior layer of the transverse meso- colon. 3. By dividing the two layers of peritoneum, which descend from the great curvature of the stomach to form the great omentum ; turning the stomach upwards, and then cutting through the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon. (See fig. 357, p. 640.) The Pancreas (nav-apiae, all Jlcsh) is a compound racemose gland, analogous in its structure to the salivary glands. In shape it is transversely oblong, liattened from before backwards, and bears some resemblance to a dog's tongue, its right extremity being broad and presenting a sort of angular bend from above downwards, called the 384.—-The Pancreas and its Relations. head, whilst its left extremity gradually tapers to form the tail, the intermediate portion being called the body. It is situated transversely across the posterior wall of the abdomen, at the back of the epigastric and both hypochondriac regions. Its length varies from six to eight inches, its breadth is an inch and a half, and its thickness from half an inch to an inch, being greater at its right extremity and along its upper border. Its weight varies from two to three and a half ounces, but it may reach six ounces. The right extremity or head of the pancreas (fig. 384) is curved upon itself from above downwards, and is embraced by the concavity of the duodenum. The common bile-duct descends behind, between the duodenum and pancreas ; and the pancreatico- duodenal artery descends in front between the same parts. On the posterior aspect of the pancreas is a lobular fold of the gland, which passes transversely to the left behind the superior mesenteric vessels, and thus these vessels are embraced by the substance of the gland. It is sometimes detached from the rest of the gland, and is called the lesser pancreas. The lesser end or tail of the pancreas is narrow ; it extends to the left as far as the spleen, and is placed over the left kidney and suprarenal capsule.