ARTERIES. 378 of the elbow-joint, accompanied by the nerve to the Anconeus muscle, where it anastomoses with the interosseous recurrent branch, and, on the inner side of the arm, with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and with the anastomotica magna or inferior profunda (fig. 225). The nutrient artery of the shaft of the humerus arises from the brachial, about the middle of the arm. Passing downwards, it enters the nutrient canal of that bone, near the insertion of the Coraco-brachialis muscle. The inferior profunda, of small size, arises from the brachial, a little below the middle of the arm; piercing the internal intermuscular septum, it descends on the surface of the inner head of the Triceps muscle, to the space between the inner condyle and olecranon, accompanied by the ulnar nerve, and terminates by ana- stomising with the posterior ulnar recurrent, and anastomotica magna. It also supplies a branch to the front of the internal condyle, which anastomoses with the anterior ulnar recurrent. The anastomotica magna arises from the brachial, about two inches above the elbow-joint. It passes transversely inwards upon the Brachialis anticus, and, piercing the internal intermuscular septum, winds round the back part of the humerus between the Triceps and the bone, forming an arch above the olecranon fossa, by its junction with the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. As this vessel lies on the Brachialis anticus, branches ascend to join the inferior profunda; and some descend in front of the inner condyle, to anastomose with the anterior ulnar recurrent. Behind the internal condyle an offset is given off which anastomoses with the inferior profunda and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries and supplies the Triceps. The muscular are three or four large branches, which are distributed to the muscles in the course of the artery. They supply the Coraco-brachialis, Biceps, and Brachialis anticus muscles. The Anastomosis around the Elbow-joint (fig. 225). The vessels engaged in this anastomosis may be conveniently divided into those situated in front and behind the Internal and External Condyles. The branches anastomosing in front of the In- ternal condyle are:—The anastomotica magna, the anterior ulnar recurrent, and the anterior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. Those behind the Internal Condyle are :—The anastomotica magna, the posterior ulnar recurrent, and the pos- terior terminal branch of the inferior profunda. The branches anastomosing in front of the External Condyle are :•—The radial recurrent and the termination of the superior profunda. Those behind the External Condyle (perhaps more properly described as being situated between the external condyle and the olecranon) are :— The anastomotica magna, the interosseous recurrent, and the posterior articular branch of the superior profunda. There is also a large arch of anastomosis above the olecranon formed by the interosseous recurrent, joining with the anastomotica magna and posterior ulnar recurrent (fig. 225). From this description it will be observed that the anastomotica magna is the vessel most engaged, the only part of the anastomosis in which it is not employed being that in front of the external condyle. Radial, Artery. The Radial Artery appears, from its direction, to be the continuation of the brachial, but, in size, it is smaller than the ulnar. It commences at the bifurca- tion of the brachial, just below the bend of the elbow, and passes along the radial side of the forearm to the wrist; it then winds backwards, round the outer side of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and, finally, passes for- wards between the two heads of the first Dorsal interosseous muscle, into the palm of the hand, where it crosses the metacarpal bones to the ulnar border of the hand, to form the deep palmar arch. At its termination, it inosculates with the deep branch of the ulnar artery. The relations of this vessel may thus be conve- niently divided into three parts, viz., in the forearm, at the back of the wrist, and in the hand. Relations. In the forearm, this vessel extends from opposite the neck of the