LYMPHATICS. 454 an almond, and their colour, on section, is of a pinkish grey tint, excepting the bronchial glands, which in the adult are mottled with black. Each gland has a layer or capsule of cellular tissue investing it, from which prolongations dip into its substance, forming partitions. The lymphatic and lacteal vessels pass through these bodies in their passage to the thoracic and lymphatic 253.—The Thoracic and Right Lymphatic Duct, ducts. A lymphatic or lacteal vessel, previous to entering a gland, divides into several small branches, which are named afferent vessels. As they enter, their external coat becomes continuous with the capsule of the gland, and the vessels, much thinned, and con- sisting only of their internal, or endothelial coat, pass into the gland, where they sub- divide and pursue a tortuous course ; and they finally anas- tomose, so as to form a plexus. The vessels composing this plexus unite to form a single efferent vessel, which, on emerging from the gland, is again invested with an ex- ternal coat. Further details on the minute anatomy of the lymphatic vessels and glands will be found in the Intro- duction. Thoracic Duct. The thoracic duct (fig. 253) conveys the great mass of the lymph and chyle into the blood. It is the common trunk of all the lymphatic vessels of the body, excepting those of the right side of the head, neck, and thorax, and right upper extremity, the right lung, right side of the heart, and the convex surface of the liver. It varies in length from eighteen to twenty inches in the adult, and ex- tends from the second lumbar vertebra to the root of the neck. It commences in the abdomen by a triangular dila- tation, the receptaculum chyli (reservoir or cistern of Pecquet), which is situated upon the front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra, to the right side and behind the aorta, by the side of the right eras of the Diaphragm. It ascends into the thorax through the aortic opening in the Diaphragm, lying to the right of the aorta, and is placed in the