639 THE ABDOMEN. vena cava ; the aortic opening, for the passage of the aorta, vena azygos, and thoracic duct; and the oesophageal opening for the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. Below, there are two apertures on each side : one for the passage of the femoral ves- sels, and the other for the transmission of the spermatic cord in the male, and the round ligament in the female. Regions. For convenience of description of the viscera, as well as of reference to the morbid condition of the contained parts, the abdomen is artificially divided into nine regions. Thus, if two circular lines are drawn round the body, the one parallel with the cartilages of the ninth ribs, and the other with the highest point of the crests of the ilia, the abdominal cavity is divided into three zones, an upper, a middle, and a lower. If two parallel lines are drawn from the cartilage of the eighth rib on each side, down to the centre of Poupart's ligament, each of these zones is subdivided into three parts, a middle and two lateral. The middle region of the upper zone is called the epigastric (kiti, over; yaa-i'ip, the stomach); and the two lateral regions, the right and left hypochondriac (inro, under; xorSpoi, the cartilages). The central region of the middle zone is the umbilical; and the two lateral regions, the right and left lumbar. The middle region of the lower zone is the hypogastric or pubic region; and the lateral regions are the right and left inguinal or iliac. The viscera contained in these different regions are the following (fig. 356) :— Right IIypochondriac. The right lobe of the liver and the gall-bladder, the duodenum, pancreas, hepatic flexure of the colon, \ipper part of the right kidney, and the right su- prarenal capsule. Right Inguinal [Iliac). The caecum, appendix cteci. Epigastric Region. The middle and pyloric end of the stomach, left lobe of the liver, and lobulus Spigelii, and the pancreas. Hypogastric Region. Convolutions of the small intestines, the blad- der in children, and in adults if distended, and the uterus during preg- nancy. The Peritoneum. Left Hypochondriac. The splenic end of the stomach, the spleen and extremity of the pancreas, the splenic flexure of the colon, upper half of the left kidney, and the left suprarenal capsule. Left Lumbar. Descending colon, part of the omentum, lower part of the left kidney, and some convolutions of the small intestines. Left Inguinal (Iliac). Sigmoid flexure of the colon. Right Lumbar. Ascending colon, lower part of the right kidney, and some convolutions of the small intestines. u mbilical Region. The transverse colon, part of the great omentum and mesentery, transverse part of the duodenum, and some convolutions of the jejunum and ileum. The peritoneum (-rrepirti vtiv, to extend around) is a serous membrane, and partially invests all the viscera contained in the abdominal and pelvic cavities. In consequence of the number and different shapes of these viscera, the reflections of the peritoneum, as it invests them, are exceedingly complex and difficult to understand. The peritoneum partially invests all the viscera contained in the abdominal and pelvic cavities, forming the visceral layer of the membrane ; it is then reflected upon the internal surface of the parietes of those cavities, forming the parietal layer. The free surface of the peritoneum is smooth, moist, and covered by a thin squamous