ANKLE-JOINT. 197 between the adjacent margins of the tibia and fibula 011 the front aspect of the articulation. It is in relation, in front, with the Peroneus terthis, the aponeurosis of the leg, and the integument; behind, with the inferior interosseous ligament; and lies in contact with the cartilage covering the astragalus. The Posterior Inferior Ligament, smaller than the preceding, is disposed in a similar manner on the posterior surface of the articulation. The Transverse Ligament is a long narrow band, continuous with the pre- ceding, passing transversely across the back of the joint, from the external malleolus to the tibia, a short distance from its malleolar process. This ligament projects below the margin of the bones, and forms part of the articulating surface for the astragalus. The Synovial Membrane lining the articular surface is derived from that of the ankle joint. Actions. The movement permitted in these articulations is limited to a very slight gliding of the articular surfaces one upon another. IV. Ankle-Joint. The Ankle is a ginglymus or hinge joint. The bones entering into its forma- tion are the lower extremity of the tibia and its malleolus, and the external malleolus of the fibula. These bones are united above, and form an arch, to receive the upper convex surface of the astragalus and its two lateral facets. The bony surfaces are covered with cartilage, and connected together by the following ligaments :— Anterior. Internal Lateral. External Lateral. The Anterior or Tibio-tarsal Ligament (fig. 145) is a broad, thin, membranous layer, attached, above, to the margin of the articular surface of the tibia; below, 145.—Ankle-joint: Tarsal and Tarso-Metatarsal Articulations Internal View. Eight Side, to the margin of the astragalus, in front of its articular surface. It is in relation, in front, with the Extensor tendons of the toes, with the tendons of the Tibialis anticus and Peroneus tertius, and the anterior tibial vessels and nerve; behind, it lies in contact with the synovial membrane.