OCCIPITAL BONE. cess, and its margins are smooth and bevelled internally to support the medulla oblongata. On each side of tne foramen magnum are the condyles, for articulation with the atlas : they are convex, oblong, or reniform in shape, and directed down- wards and outwards; they converge in front, and encroach slightly upon the anterior segment of the foramen. On the inner border of each condyle is a rough tubercle for the attachment of the ligaments (check) which connect this bone with the odontoid process of the axis; whilst external to them is a rough tubercular | prominence, the transverse or jugular process (the representative of the trans- ' verse process of a vertebra), channelled in front by a deep notch, which forms part of the jugular foramen, or foramen lacerum posterius. The under surface of this process affords attachment to the Rectus capitis lateralis; its upper or cerebral surface presents a deep groove which lodges part of the lateral sinus, whilst its external surface is marked by a quadrilateral rough facet, covered with cartilage in the fresh state, and articulating with a similar surface on the petrous portion of the temporal bone. On the outer side of each condyle, near its fore part, is a foramen, the anterior condyloid; it is directed downwards, outwards, and forwards, and transmits the hypoglossal nerve, and occasionally a meningeal branch of the ascending pharyngeal artery. This foramen is sometimes double. Behind each condyle is a fossa,* sometimes perforated at the bottom by a foramen, the ulterior condyloid, for the transmission of a vein to the lateral sinus. In front of the foramen magnum is a strong quadrilateral plate of bone, the basilar process, wider behind than in front; its under surface, which is rough, presenting in the median line a tubercular ridge, the pharyngeal spine, for the attachment of the tendinous raphe and Superior constrictor of the pharynx; and, on each side of it, rough depressions for the attachment of the Recti capitis antici, major and minor. The Internal or Cerebral Surface (fig. 23) is deeply concave. The posterior or occipital part is divided by a crucial ridge into four fos se. The two superior fossae receive the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and present slight eminences and depressions corresponding to their convolutions. The two inferior, which receive the hemispheres of the cerebellum, are larger than the former, and comparatively smooth ; both are marked by slight grooves for the lodgment of arteries. At the point of meeting of the four divisions of the crucial ridge is an eminence, the mtejmaLoceipital protuberance. It nearly corresponds to that on the outer- surface, and is perforated by one or more large vascular foramina. From this eminence, the superior division of the crucial ridge runs upwards to the superior angle of the bone; it presents a deep groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, the margins of which give attachment to the falx cerebri. The in- ferior division, the internal occipital crest, runs to the posterior margin of the foramen magnum, on the edge of which it becomes gradually lost; this ridge, which is bifurcated below, serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli. It is I usually marked by two small grooves, which commence on either side of the posterior margin of the foramen magnirm, join together above, and run into the depression for the Torcular Herophili. They lodge the occipital simrses. The transverse grooves pass outwards to the lateral angles; they are deeply channelled, for the lodgment of the lateral simrses, their prominent margins affording attach- ment to the tentorium cerebelli. \ At the point of mepting of these grooves is a depression, the ' Torcular Herophili,' % placed a little to one or the other side of the internal occipital protuberance. More anteriorly is the for amen magnum, and * This fossa presents many variations in size. It is usually shallow: and the foramen mail; occasionally wanting, on one, or both sides. Sometimes both fossa and foramen are large, but confined to one side only ; more rarely, the fossa and foramen are very large on both sides. t Usually one of the transverse grooves is deeper and broader than the other; occasionally, both grooves are of equal depth and breadth, or both equally indistinct. The broader of I the two transverse grooves is nearly always continuous with the vertical groove for the superior longitudinal sinus, and occupies the corresponding side of the median line. \ The columns of blood corning in different directions were supposed to he pressed together at this point (torcular, a wine press).