762 FEMALE OEGANS OE GENERATION. angle of the uterus to the inner extremity of the ovary; it consists of fibrous tissue and a few muscular fibres derived from the uterus. The Round Ligaments are two rounded cords between four and five inches in length, situated between the layers of the broad ligament in front of and below the Fallopian tube. Commencing on each side at the superior angle of the uterus, this ligament passes forwards and outwards through the internal abdominal ring, along the inguinal canal to the labia majora, in which it becomes lost. The round ligament consists of areolar tissue, vessels, and nerves, besides a dense bundle of fibrous tissue, and muscular fibres prolonged from the uterus, enclosed in a duplicating of perito- neum, which, in the foetus, is prolonged in the form of a tubular process for a short distance into the inguinal canal. This process is called the. canal of Nuck. It is generally obliterated in the adult, but sometimes remains pervious even in advanced life. It is analogous to the peritoneal pouch which accompanies the descent of the testis. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the ovaries and Fallopian tubes are the ovarian from the aorta. They anastomose with the termination of the uterine arteries, and enter the attached border of the ovary. The veins follow the course of the arteries; they form a plexus near the ovary, the pampiniform plexus. The nerves are derived from the inferior hypogastric or pelvic plexus, and from the ovarian plexus, the Fallopian tube receiving a branch from one of the uterine nerves. Mammary Glands. The mam/mce, or breasts, are accessory glands of the generative system, which secrete the milk. They exist in the male as well as in the female ; but in the former only in the rudimentary state, unless their growth is excited by peculiar circumstances. In the female they are two large hemispherical eminences situated towards the lateral aspect of the pectoral region, corresponding to the interval between the third and sixth or seventh ribs, and extending from the side of the sternum to the axilla. Their weight and dimensions differ at different periods of life, and in different indi- viduals. Before puberty they are of small size, but enlarge as the generative organs become more completely developed. They increase during pregnancy, and especially after delivery, and become atrophied in old age. The left mamma is generally a little larger than the light. Their base is nearly circular, flattened or slightly con- cave, and has its long diameter directed upwards and outwards towards the axilla ; they are separated from the Pectoral muscles by a thin layer of superficial fascia. The outer surface of the mamma is convex, and presents, just below the centre, a small conical prominence, the nipple (mamilla). The surface of the nipple is dark- coloured, and surrounded by an areola having a coloured tint. In the virgin the areola is of a delicate rosy hue; about the second month of impregnation it enlarges and acquires a darker tinge, which increases as pregnancy advances, becoming in some cases of a dark brown, or even black colour. This colour diminishes as soon as lactation is over, but is never entirely lost through life. These changes in the colour of the areola are of extreme importance in forming a conclusion in a case of suspected pregnancy. The nipple is a cylindrical or conical eminence, capable of undergoing a sort of erection from mechanical excitement, a change mainly due to the contraction of its muscular fibres. It is of a pink or brownish hue, its surface wrinkled and provided with papillae ; and it is perforated by numerous orifices, the apertures of the lactiferous ducts. Near the base of the nipple, and upon the surface of the areola, are numerous sebaceous glands, which become much enlarged during lactation, and present the appearance of small tubercles beneath the skin. These glands secrete a peculiar fatty substance, which serves as a protection to the integument of the nipple in the act of sucking. The nipple consists of numerous vessels, intermixed with plain muscular fibres which are principally arranged in a circular manner around the base; some few fibres radiating from base to apex.