VEINS. 446 commences at the outer side of the arch on the dorsum of the foot; it ascends behind the outer malleolus, and along the outer border of the tendo Achillis, across which it passes at an acute angle to reach the middle line of the posterior aspect of the leg. Passing directly upwards, it perforates the deep fascia in the lower part of the pop- liteal space, and terminates in the popliteal vein, between the heads of the Gastro- cnemius muscle.* It is accompanied by the external saphenous nerve. It receives numerous large branches from the back part of the leg, and communicates with the deep veins on the dorsum of the foot, and behind the outer malleolus. This vein has a variable 251.—External or Short Saphenous number of valves, from three to nine (Gay), one of which is always found near its termination in the popliteal vein. The Deep Veins of the lower exti'emity accom- pany the arteries and their branches, and are called the vence comites of those vessels. The external and internal plantar veins unite to form the posterior tibial. They accompany the posterior tibial artery, and are joined by the peroneal veins. The anterior tibial veins are formed by a con- tinuation upwards of the vense comites of the dor- salis pedis artery. They pass through the aperture in the interosseous membrane at the upper part of the leg, and form, by their junction with the posterior tibial, the popliteal vein. The valves in the deep veins are very numerous. The Popliteal Vein is formed by the junction of the venre comites of the anterior and posterior tibial vessels; it ascends through the popliteal space to the tendinous aperture in the Adductor magnus, where it becomes the femoral vein. In the lower part of its course, it is placed internal to the artery; between the heads of the Gastro- cnemius, it is superficial to that vessel; but above the knee-joint, it is close to its outer side. It receives the sural veins from the Gasti'ocnemius muscle, the articular veins, and the external saphenous. The valves in this vein are usually four in number. The Femoral Vein accompanies the femoral artery through the upper two-thirds of the thigh, In the lower part of its course, it lies external to the artery ; higher up, it is behind it; and beneath Poupart's ligament, it lies to its inner side, and on the same plane. It receives numerous muscular branches ; the profunda fem oris joins it near its termination, and about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament the internal saphenous vein. The valves in this vein are four or five in number. The External Iliac Vein commences at the termination of the femoral, beneath the crural arch, and passing upwards along the brim of the pelvis, terminates opposite the sacro-iliac symphysis, by uniting with the internal iliac to form the common iliac vein. On the right side, it lies at first along the inner side of the external iliac * Mr. Gay calls attention to the fact that the external saphenous vein often (he says invariably) penetrates the fascia at or about the point where the tendon of the gastrocnemius commences, and runs below the fascia in the rest of its course, or sometimes amoDg the muscular fibres, to join the popliteal vein. See Gay on Varicose Disease of the Lower Extremities, p. 24, where there is also a careful and elaborate description of the branches of the saphenous veins.