645 THE PERITONEUM. which it encloses, forming the gastro-splenic omentum. From the hilum of the spleen it turns backwards to reach the abdominal wall, along which it courses to reach the median line of the abdomen. The foramen of Winslow is bounded, in front, by the lesser omentum, enclosing the vena portae and the hepatic artery and duct; behind, by the inferior vena cava; above, by the lobulus Spigelii; below, by the hepatic artery curving forwards from the cceliac axis. The reflections of the peritoneum over the transverse colon are somewhat differ- ently described by some authors (Lnschka, Hoklen), and there is no doubt, as was long ago pointed out by Haller, that the arrangement in the foetus is different from that which has been described above. In the foetus, and even in the young child, the two ascending layers of the great omentum can be traced passing together over the trans- verse colon, instead of embracing it, as described above, and passing back to the spine as a double fold, which can be separated from the transverse colon and transverse meso-colon. Upon reaching the spine the two layers separate : the upper one (the inner of the two ascending layers of the great omentum) passes upwards in front of 359.—Transverse Section of Peritoneum. (An arrow has been introduced into the foramen of Winslow.) CRURA OF DIAPHRAGM the pancreas and crura of the Diaphragm, forming the posterior boundary of the lesser bag of the peritoneum, in a similar manner to the upper layer of the trans- verse meso-colon in the former description. The other fold (the outer of the ascend- ing layer of the great omentum) after reaching the spine is turned forwards again on itself as far as the transverse colon, which it covers, and is again reflected back to the spine, to pass down in front of the aorta to form the mesentery, in a similar manner to the lower layer of the transverse meso-colon in the former description. Thus the transverse colon is invested by a distinct fold of peritoneum, prolonged forwards from the spine to surround it, in a very similar manner to the way in which the small in- testines are surrounded. In the adult, however, as a rule, this arrangement disappears. Probably adhesion of the layers of which the foetal duplication is composed takes place, and then absorp- tion, and thus the arrangement is brought about which has been described above as most frequently seen in the adult subject. It may be that the fcetal duplicature is ' drawn or pushed forwards from its place in the progress of visceral development, and thus effaced.' * The viscera thus shown to be almost entirely invested by peritoneum are the liver * Quain's Anatomy, vol. ii. p. 485.