ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 630 nates anteriorly in a small papilla, corresponding with the inferior opening of the anterior jjalatine fossa. This papilla receives filaments from the naso-palatine and anterior palatine nerves. On either side and in front of the raphe the mucous mem- brane is thick, pale in colour, and corrugated ; behind, it is thin, smooth, and of a deeper colour : it is covered with squamous epithelium, and furnished with numerous glands (palatal glands), which lie between the mucous membrane and the surface of the bone. The soft palate (velum pendulum palati) is a movable fold, suspended from the posterior border of the hard palate, and forming an incomplete septum between the mouth and pharynx. It consists of a fold of mucous membrane, enclosing muscular fibres, an aponeurosis, vessels, nerves, adenoid tissue and mucous glands. When occupying its usual position (i.e. relaxed and pendent), its anterior surface is concave continuous with the roof of the mouth, and marked by a median ridge or raphe which indicates its original separation into two lateral halves. Its posterior surface is convex, and continuous with the mucous membrane covering the floor of the pos terior nares. Its upper border is attached to the posterior margin of the hard palate and its sides are blended with the pharynx. Its lower border is free. Hanging from the middle of its lower border is a small conical-shaped pendulous process, the uvula ; and arching outwards and downwards from the base of the uvula on each side are two curved folds of mucous membrane, containing muscular fibres called the arches or pillars of the soft palate. The anterior pillar runs downwards, outwards, and forwards to the side of the base of the tongue, and is formed by the projection of the Palato-glossus muscle covered by mucous membrane. The posterior pillars are nearer to each other and larger than the anterior; they run downwards, outwards, and backwards to the sides of the pharynx, and are formed by the projection of the Palato-pharyngei muscles, covered by mucous mem- brane. The anterior and jjosterior pillars are separated below by a triangular interval, in which the tonsil is lodged. The space left between the arches of the palate 011 the two sides is called the isthmus of the fauces.. It is bounded above by the free margin of the palate; below by the tongue ; and on each side by the pillars of the soft palate and tonsil. The mucous membrane of the soft palate is thin, and covered with squamous epithelium on both surfaces, excepting near the orifice of the Eustachian tube, where it is columnar and ciliated.* Beneath the inucous membrane on the oral surface of the soft palate is a considerable amount of adenoid tissue. The palatine glands form a continuous layer on its posterior surface and round the uvula. The aponeurosis of the soft palate is a thin but firm fibrous layer attached above to the hard palate, and becoming thinner towards the free margin of the velum. It is blended with the aponeurotic tendon of the Tensor palati muscle. The muscles of the soft palate are five on each side: the Levator palati, Tensor palati, Palato-glossus, Palato-pharyngeus, and Azygos uvulae (see p. 232). The following is the relative position of these structures in a dissection of the soft palate from the posterior or nasal to the anterior or oral surface. Immediately beneath the nasal mucous membrane is a thin stratum of muscular fibres, the posterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus muscle joining with its fellow of the opposite side in the middle line. Beneath this is the Azygos uvulae, two rounded fleshy fasciculi, placed side by side in the median line of the soft palate. Next comes the aponeurosis of the Levator palati joining with the muscle of the opposite side in the middle line. Fourthly, the anterior fasciculus of the Palato-pharyngeus, thicker than the posterior and separating the Levator palati from the next ,muscle, the Tensor palati. This muscle terminates in a tendon which, after winding round the hamular process, expands into a broad aponeurosis in the soft palate, anterior to the other muscles Which have been enumerated. Finally, we have a thin muscular stratum, the Palato- * According to Klein, the mucous membrane on the nasal surface of the soft palate is in the fetus covered throughout by columnar ciliated epithelium.