697 CARTILAGES OF LARYNX. by the The lower border is connected to the cricoid cartilage, in the median line crico-thyroid membrane; and, on each side, by the Crico-thyroid muscle. The posterior borders,thick and rounded, terminate, above, in the superior cornua; and, below, in the inferior cornua. The two superior cornua are long and narrow,' directed backwards, upwards, and inwards; and terminate in a conical extremity' which gives attachment to the thyro-hyoid " short and thick ; they pass forwards anc 394-- -The Cartilages of the Larynx. Posterior View. EPICLOTXIS THYROID igament. The two inferior cornua are inwards, and present, on their inner surfaces, a small oval, articular facet for articulation with the side of the cricoid cartilage. The posterior border receives the insertion of the Stylo-pharyngeus and Palato-pharyngeus muscles on each side. The Cricoid Cartilage is so called from its resemblance to a signet ring ((cp/coc, a ring).- It is smaller but thicker and stronger than the thyroid carti- lage, and forms the lower and back part of the cavity of the larynx. Its anterior half is narrow, convex, affording attachment in front and at the sides to the Crico-thyroid muscles, and, be- hind those, to part of the Inferior constrictor. Its posterior half is very broad, both from side to side and from above downwards; it presents in the middle line a vertical ridge for the attachment of the longi- tudinal fibres of the oesophagus ; and on either side abroad depres- sion for the Crico-arytsenoideus posticus muscle. At the point of junction of the two halves of the cartilage on either side is a small round elevation, for articulation with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. The lower border of the cricoid cartilage is horizontal, and con- nected to the upper ring of the trachea by fibrous membrane. Its upj)er border is directed ob- liquely upwards and backwards, owing to the great depth of its posterior surface. It gives attachment, in front, to the crico-thyroid membrane; at the sides, to part of the same membrane and to the lateral Crico-arytenoid muscle ; behind, the highest point of the upper bolder is surmounted on each side by a smooth oval surface, for articulation with the arytenoid cartilage. Between the articular surfaces is a slight notch, for the attachment of part of the Arytsenoideus muscle. The inner surface of the cricoid cartilage is smooth, and lined by mucous membrane. ARYTENOID CRICO-ARTT/tNOID P06TICtStILATERALIS Art/ten old Cart'.", late