cliv GENERAL ANATOMY. and this is sometimes prolonged into a distinct duct running transversely— the duct of Gaertner—which is much more conspicuous and extends further in some of the lower animals. This is the remains of the "Wolffian duct. The Fallopian tuhe is formed b}- the portion of the duct of Midler which lies above the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body. This duct is at first completely closed, and its closed extremity remains permanent, forming a small cystic body attached to the fimbriated end of the Fallopian tube, and called the ' hydatid of Morgagni.' Below this a cleft forms in the duct, and is developed into the fimbriated opening of the Fallopian tube. Below this portion of the duct of Midler, that body on either side, and the ducts of the Wolffian body, are united together in a structure called ' the genital cord,' in which the two Miillerian duets approach each other, lying side by side, and finally coalescing to form the cavity of the vagina and Fiu. CIII.—Female genital organs of the embryo, with the remains of the Wolffian bodies (after J. Miiller). A B A. From a fcetal sheep. </. The kidneys, b. The ureters, r. The ovaries. <f. Remains of Wolffian bodies, r. Fallopian tubes, f. Their abdominal openings. <J. Their union in the body of the uterus. b. More advanced from a foetal deer. <i. Body of the uterus. 6. Cornua. c. Tubes. J. Ovaries, f. Remains of Wolffian bodies, c. Still more advanced from the human fretus of three months, a. The body of the uterus. 0. The round ligament «j The Fallopian tubes, d. The ovaries, e. Remains of the Wolffian bodies. uterus. This coalescence commences in the middle, corresponding to the body of the uterus. The upper parts of the Miillerian ducts in the genita cord constitute the cornua of the uterus, little developed in the human species. The only remains of the Wolffian body consist in the organ of Rosenmiiller. About the fifth month an annular constriction marks the position of the neck of the uterus, and alter the sixth month the walls of the uterus begin to thicken. The round ligament is derived from the lumbar ligament of the Wolffian body, the peritoneum constitutes the broad ligaments ; the superior ligament of the Wolffian body disappears with that structure. Male Orgws.—The testicles are developed from the intermediate cell- mass (genital gland of the older embryologists) behind and to the inside of