THE SKELETON. 126 of the two condyles will be seen to be nearly horizontal. The two condyles are directly continuous in front, and form a smooth trochlear surface, the external border of which is more prominent, and ascends higher than the internal one. This surface articulates with the patella. It presents a median groove, which ex- tends downwards and backwards to the intercondyloid notch ; and two lateral con- vexities, of which the external is the broader, more prominent, and prolonged farther upwards upon the front of the outer condyle. The intercondyloid notch lodges the crucial ligaments ; it is bounded laterally by the opposed surfaces of the two condyles, and in front by the lower end of the shaft. Outer Condyle. The outer surface of the external condyle presents, a little behind its centre, an eminence, the outer tuberosity; it is less prominent than the inner tuberosity, and gives attachment to the external lateral ligaments of the knee. Immediately beneath it, is a groove which commences at a depression a little behind the centre of the lower border of this surface : the depression is for the tendon of origin of the Popliteus muscle ; the groove in which this tendon is contained, is smooth, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and runs upwards and backwards to the posterior extremity of the condyle. The inner surface of the outer condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the intercondyloid notch, and gives attach- ment, by its posterior part, to the anterior crucial ligament. The inferior surface is convex, smooth, and broader than that of the internal condyle. The posterior extremity is convex and smooth : just above the articular surface is a depression for the tendon of the outer head of the Gastrocnemius, above which is the origin of the Plantaris. Inner Condyle. The inner surface of the inner condyle presents a convex emi- nence, the inner tuberosity, rough, for the attachment of the internal lateral liga- ment. Above this tuberosity, at the termination of the inner bifurcation of the linea aspera, is a tubercle, for the insertion of the tendon of the Adductor magnus ; and behind and beneath the tubercle a depression for the tendon of the inner head of the Gastrocnemius. The outer side of the inner condyle forms one of the lateral boundaries of the intercondyloid notch, and gives attachment, by its anterior part, to the posterior crucial ligament. Its inferior or articular surface is convex, and presents a less extensive surface than the external condyle. Struchire. The shaft of the femur is a cylinder of compact tissue, hollowed by a large medullary canal. The cylinder is of great thickness and density in the middle third of the shaft, where the bone is narrowest, and the medullary canal well formed; but above and below this, the cylinder gradually becomes thinner, owing to a separation of the layers of the bone into cancelli, which project into the medullary canal and finally obliterate it, so that the upper and lower ends of the shaft, and the articular extremities more especially, consist of cancellated tissue, invested by a thin compact layer. The arrangement of the cancelli in the ends of the femur is remarkable. In the upper end (fig. 105), they run in parallel columns a a from the summit of the head to the thick under wall of the neck, while a series of transverse fibres b b cross the parallel columns, and connect them to the thin upper wall of the neck. Another series of plates c c springs from the whole interior of the cylinder above the lesser trochanter ; these pass upwards and converge to form a series of arches beneath the upper wall of the neck, near its junction with the great trochanter. This structure is admirably adapted to sustain, with the greatest mechanical advantage, concussion or weight trans-