733 THE BLADDER. rising into the abdominal cavity, and often extending nearly as high as the umbilicus. It is larger in its vertical diameter than from side to side, and its long axis is directed from above obliquely downwards and backwards, in a line directed from some point between the pubes and umbilicus (according to its distension) to the end of the coccyx. The bladder, when distended, is slightly curved forwards towards the anterior wall of the abdomen, so as to be more convex behind than in front. In the female it is larger in the transverse than in the vertical diameter, and its capacity is said to be greater than in the male.* When moderately distended, it measures about five inches in length, and three inches across, and the ordinary amount which it contains is about a pint. The bladder is divided into a summit, body, base, and neck. The summit, or apex, of the bladder is rounded and directed forwards and upwards ; it is connected to the umbilicus by a fibro-inuscular cord, the urachus, 424.—Vertical Section of Bladder, Penis, and Urethra. and also by means of two rounded fibrous cords, the obliterated portions of the hypogastric arteries, which are placed one on each side of the urachus. The sum- mit of the bladder behind the urachus is covered by peritoneum, whilst the portion in front of the urachus has no peritoneal covering, but rests upon the abdominal wall. The urachus is the obliterated remains of a tubular canal which exists in the embryo, and connects the cavity of the bladder with a membranous sac placed external to the abdomen, opposite the umbilicus, called the allantois. In the infant, at birth, it is occasionally found pervious, so that the urine escapes at the umbilicus, and calculi have been found in its canal. The body of the bladder in front is not covered by peritoneum, and is in relation with the triangular ligament, the posterior surface of the symphysis pubis, the Internal obturator muscles, and, when distended, with the abdominal parietes. The posterior surface is covered by peritoneum throughout. It corresponds, in * According to Henle, the bladder is considerably smaller in the female than in tlie male.