MUSCLES AND FASCL33. 260 of the muscular slip from the ensiform. appendix and the cartilages of the adjoining ribs, the fibres of the Diaphragm are deficient, the interval being filled by areolar tissue, covered on the thoracic side by the pleura?; on the abdominal, by the perito- neum. This is, consequently, a weak point, and a portion of the contents of the abdomen may protrude into the chest, forming phrenic or diaphragmatic hernia, or a collection of pus in the mediastinum may descend through it, so as to point at the epigastrium. The ligamentum arcuatum internum is a tendinous arch, thrown across the upper part of the Psoas magnus muscle, on each side of the spine. It is connected, by one end, to the outer side of the body of the first, and occasionally the second lumbar vertebra, being continuous with the outer side of the tendon of the corresponding crus; and, by the other end, to the front of the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebra. The ligamentum arcuatum externum is the thickened upper margin of the anterior lamella of the transversalis fascia ; it arches across the upper part of the Quadratus lumborum, being attached, by one extremity, to the front of the transverse process of the second lumbar vertebra; and, by the other, to the apex and lower margin of the last rib. To the spine, the Diaphragm is connected by two crura, which are situated on the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, on each side of the aorta. The crura, at their origin, are tendinous in structure ; the right crus, larger and longer than the left, arising from the anterior surface of the bodies and intervertebral substances of the second, third, and fourth lumbar vertebrae; the left, from the second and third ; both blending with the anterior common ligament of the spine. A tendinous arch is thrown across the front of the vertebral column, from the tendon of one crus to that of the other, beneath which pass the aorta, vena azygos major, and thoracic duct. The tendons terminate in two large fleshy bellies, which, with the tendinous portions above alluded to, are called the crura, or pillars of the dia- phragm. The outer fasciculi of the two crura are directed upwards and outwards to the central tendon; but the inner fasciculi decussate in front of the aorta, and then diverge, so as to surround the oesophagus before ending in the central tendon. The anterior and larger of these fasciculi is formed by the right crus. The Central or Gordiform Tendon of the Diaphragm is a thin tendinous apo- neurosis, situated at the centre of the vault formed by the muscle, immediately below the pericardium, with which its circumference is blended. It is shaped somewhat like a trefoil leaf, consisting of three divisions, or leaflets, separated from one another by slight indentations. The light leaflet is the largest; the middle one, directed towards the ensiform cartilage, the next in size; and the left, the smallest. In structure, the tendon is composed of several planes of fibres, which intersect one another at various angles, and unite into straight or curved bundles— an arrangement which affords it additional strength. The Openings connected with the Diaphragm are three large and several smaller apertures. The former are the aortic, the oesophageal, and the opening for the vena cava. The aortic opening is the lowest and the most posterior of the three large aper- tures connected with this muscle. It is situated in the middle line, immediately in front of the bodies of the vertebrae; and is, therefore, behind the Diaphragm, not in it. It is an osseo-aponeurotic aperture, formed by a tendinous arch thrown across the front of the bodies of the vertebrae, from the crus on one side to that on the other, and transmits the aorta, vena azygos major, thoracic duct, and occa- sionally the left sympathetic nerve. The oesophageal opening, elliptical in form, muscular in structure, and formed by the two crura, is placed above, and, at the same time, anterior, and a little to the left of the preceding. It transmits the oesophagus and pneumogastric nerves. The anterior margin of this aperture is occasionally tendinous, being formed by the margin of the central tendon. The opening for the vena cava is the highest; it is quadrilateral in form, ten-