GENERAL ANATOMY. CXXXV1I1 derived from the chorda dorsalis are now said early to become displaced and to disappear. At the point w here the notochord terminates anteriorly the medullary layer of the epiblast is reflected downwards to form a little pouch (fig. XCL, C, if) of nervous substance, the infundibulum. At the same time the hypo- blast passes upwards from the pharynx, or upper end of the primitive in- testine, to form, along with the corneous layer of the epiblast, a similar Fit;. XCI.—Vertical section of the head in early embryos of the rabbit. Magnified (from Mihalkovics). A B a. Prom an embryo of five millimetres long. n. From an embryo of sts millimetres lone o. Vertical Bection of the anterior end of the notochord und pituitary body. Jfcc, from au embryo sixteen millimetres long. In a, the faueial opening is still closed. In B, it is formed, c. Anterior cerebral vesicle, me. Meso-eerebruni. mo. Medulla oblongata. cn. Corneous luyer. m. Medullary layer, if. Infundibutnni. am. Amnion, spe. Sphenoethmoidal, be. Central (dorsum selUe). ami spo, splieno-occipital parts of the basis crunii. h. Heart. /. Anterior extremity of primitive •ilii itary canal and opening (later) of the fauces, t. Cephalic portion of primitive intestine. Ilia. Thalamus. Closed opening of the involuted part of the pituitary body (py). ch. Notochord. ph. Pharynx. pouch, which becomes closed and converted into a closed glandular body, the glandular part of the pituitary body, or hypophysis. The end of the notochord would lie at first between these two parts of the pituitary body; but it is believed that, as the hypophysis becomes closed off and separated from the pharynx, the two parts of the pituitary body are carried backwards and upwards from off the end of the notochord, so as to leave the latter stranded as it were below the pituitary fossa. Others refer the hypophysal part of the pituitary body to epiblastic elements derived from the buccal part of the epiblast only, and so connect its development, not with the pharynx,