GENERAL ANATOMY. c Again, the lymphoid or retiform tissue which is found in various organs, and in some, as in the spleen, surrounds the minute hlood-vessels with a kind of sheath, forms another and a very extensive mode of origin of lymphatics, whether the meshes of this retiform tissue pass directly into the minute lymphatic plexus, or whether the latter is regarded as closed, so that the fluid in the retiform tissue has to pass hy osmosis into the lymphatic vessel, which certainly seems to be the case in the intes- tinal villi. As the retiform tissue is also hi very similar relation to the terminal capillaries, there is here a free method of communication between the blood-vessels and lymphatics, though the direct continuity of then- tubes by vascular anastomosis can nowhere be proved to exist, as far as has been shown at present. The lymph-sinuses or lymph-paths of the lymphatic glands may be re garded as another mode of origin of lymphatics, or as a modification of the a bove-mentioned origin in retiform tissue. Closely corresponding to, or identical with, this retiform tissue is the system of interfascicular spaces in the connective tissue, with the branched corpuscles lying in those spaces; and Klein has described and figured a direct communication between these spaces and the lymphatic vessels ('Atlas of Histology,' pi. viii. fig. xiv.) There is no satisfactory evi- dence to prove that any natural communication exists between the lymphatics of glandular organs and the ducts of those organs. Lymphatic glands are small oval or bean-shaped bodies, which generally present on one side a slight depression, the hilum, through which the blood-vessels enter and leave the interior. The efferent lymphatic vessel also emerges from the gland at this spot, while the afferent vessels enter the organ at different parts of the periphery. On section, a lymphatic gland displays two different structures : an external, of lighter colour—the cortical; and an internal, darker—the medullary. The cortical structure does not form a complete investment, but is deficient at the hilum, where the medullary portion reaches the surface of the gland; so that the efferent vessel is derived directly from the medullary structure, while the afferent vessels empty themselves into the cortical substance. Lymphatic glands consist of (1) a fibrous envelope, or capsule, from which a framework of processes {trabecules) proceed inwards, dividing the gland into open spaces (alrcoli), freely communicating with each other ; (2) a large quantity of retiform connective tissue occupying these spaces; (3) a free supply of blood-vessels, which are supported on the trabecule; and (4) the afferent and efferent lymphatics. Little is known of the nerves, though Kolliker describes some fine nervous filaments passing into the hilum, Fig. LXI.—Section of small lymphatic gland' half diagraruinatically given, with the course of the lymph. a. The envelope, b. Septa between tne follicles or alveoli of the cortical part. c. System of septa of the medullary por- tion, down to the hilum. il. The follicles, e. Lymph-tubes of the medullary mass. /. Different lymphatic streams which surround the follicles, and flow through the inter- stices of the medullary portion, g. Confluence of these passing through the efferent vessel, /», at the hilum.