THE SKELETON. 64 with cartilage in the recent state. The Vidian nerve pierces this cartilage. On the anterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone is seen, from without inwards, the eminence caused l>y the proj'-etion of tlie superior semicircular canal, the groove leading to the hiatus Fallopii. for the trai.Mi>is»ioii of the petrosal branch of the Vidian nerve; beneath it, the smaller groove, for the passage of the smaller ptrosal nerve; and, near the a|«-x of the bone, the depression for the IVsm rian ganglion, and the oriti<«' of the carotid calial, for the jia.s.vige of the internal carotid artery and carotid plexus of nerves. The l't,st. ri'ir Fuksh, dee ply concave, is the largest of the three, and situated on a lower level than either of the preceding. It Ls formed by the occipital, the JM-ttoiis and mastoid |*>rti >ns of the temporal, and the jKjstelior inferior ^tligle of the parie-td Ume ; is cross d by three sutun-s, the petiv oecipilal, lnasto-eicipital, ami ina>topain tal ; and lodges the e-e-relx Hum, perns Varolii, and medulla ol.Ioii gat i. It is separated from the middle fossa in the median line bv the basilar Bature, and on each aide by the superior border of the petrous portion of the temporal l>one. This border serves for the attachment of the te ntorium cen belli, is grooved externally for the superior petrosal sin US, and at its inner extremity pre- sents a notch, upon which rests the fifth nerve. The eit cumfcn nee of the fossa Ixmnded posteriorly by the grooves for the lateral sinuses. In the centre of this f> sxa is the forujimn mugnum, boundeel on either side I \ a n ugh tubercle', which gives attachment to the oelontoid ligaments; auel a little above, these are seen the internal openings of the anterior comlyloid foramina. In front of the foramen magnum is the basilar process, grooved for the support of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii, and articulating em each .-ide with the jutu.us jxntioii of tlie temporal bone, forming the petro-occipital suture, the anterior half e>f which is grooved for the inferior petrosal .sinus, the posterior half U-ing e-ncroache d upon by the foramen lacerum posterius, or jugular foramen. This foramen pivsent.s three compartments; through the anterior the inferior petrosal sinus passes, through the posterior the lateral sinus and some meningeal arteries, and through the middle the eighth pair of nerves. Above the jugular foramen Ls the internal auditory meatus, for the facial and auditory nerves and auditory artery ; behind and external to this is the slit like opening leading into the a.p;a-.!ue-tu> votibuli ; whilst betw een the two latter, and near the superior border of the petrcus por- tion, is a small triangular depression which lodges a process of the dura mater, and occasionally transmits a small vein into the substance of the bone. Ik-hind the foramen magnum are the inferior occipital fossa-, which lodge the hemispheres of the cerebellum, separated from one another by the internal occipital crest, which serves for the attachment of the falx cerebelli, and lodge's the cevipital sinuses. The posterior fossa? are surmounted, above, by the de-ep transverse grooves for the lodgment of the lateral sinuses. These channels, in their passage outwards, groove the occipital bone, the posterior inferior angle of the parietal, the mastoid portion of the temporal, and the occipital just behind the jugular foramen, at the back part of which they terminate. Where this sinus grooves the mastoid part of the temj>oial bone, the oriiSe of the niastuid foramen may be seen : and, just previous to its termination, ft has opening into it the posterior condyloid foramen. Neither foramen is constant. The lvxt>rnul Sur/ao- of the Rise of the Skull (tig. 63) is extremely irregular. It is bounded in front by the incisor tenth in the upper jaws; behind, by the superior curved lines of the occipital Ixme; and late-rally by the alveolar arch, the lower bonier of the malar bone, the zygoma, and an imaginary line, extending from the zygoma to the mastoid process and extn mity of the su)N-rior curved line of the occiput. It is formed by the palate proevsses of the stijM-rior maxillary and palate bones, the vomer, the pterygoid processes, under surface of the great wing, spinous processes and part of the IkxIv of the sphenoid, the unde r surface of the squamous, mastoid, and |K-troiis portions of the temporal, and the under surface of the occipital bone. The ante rior pint of the Imse of the skull is raised aUive the level ofthen.st of this surface- (when the skull is turned over for the purpose of