ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 654 The jejunum (jejunus, empty), so called from being usually found empty after death, includes the upper two-fifths of the rest of the small intestine. It commences at the duodenum on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, and terminates in the ileum ; its convolutions being chiefly confined to the umbilical and left iliac regions. The jejunum is wider, its coats thicker, more vascular, and of a deeper colour than those of the ileum ; but there is no characteristic mark to distinguish the termination of the one and the commencement of the other. The ileum (ei'Xstv, to twist), so called from its numerous coils or convolutions, includes the remaining three-fifths of the small intestine. It occupies chiefly the umbilical, hypogastric, right iliac, and occasionally the pelvic regions, and terminates in the right iliac fossa by opening into the inner side of the commencement of the large intestine. The ileum is narrower, its coats thinner and less vascular than those of the jejunum; a given length of it weighing less than the same length of the jejunum. Structure.— The wall of the small intestine is composed of four coats—serous, muscular, cellular, and mucous. The serous coat is derived from the peritoneum. The first, or ascending portion of the duodenum, is almost completely surrounded by that membrane; the second, or descending portion, is covered by it only in front; and the third, or transverse portion lies behind the descending layer of the transverse meso-colon, by which it is covered in front. The remaining portion of the small intestine is surrounded by the peritoneum, excepting along its attached or mesenteric border ; here a space is left for the vessels and nerves to pass to the gut. The muscular coat consists of two layers of fibres, an external or longitudinal, and an internal or circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are thinly scattered over the surface of the intestine, and are more distinct along its free border. The circular fibres form a thick, uniform layer; they surround the cylinder of the intestine in the greater part of its circumference, but do not form complete rings. The muscular coat is thicker at the upper than at the lower part of the small intestine. The cellular or submucous coat connects together the mucous and muscular layers. It consists of loose, filamentous, areolar tissue, which forms a nidus for the subdivision of the nutrient vessels, previous to their distribution to the mucous surface. The mucous membrane is thick and highly vascular at the upper part of the small intestine, but somewhat paler and thinner below. It consists of the following structures: next the cellular or submucous coat is a layer of unstriped muscular fibre, the muscularis mucosae; internal to this is a quantity of retiform tissue, enclosing in its meshes lymph-corpuscles, and in which the blood-vessels and nerves ramify. Lastly, on the inner surface of this tissue is a single layer of epithelial cells, which throughout the intestines are columnar in character. They are granular in appearance, and possess a clear oval nucleus. At this superficial or unattached end they present a distinct layer of highly refracting material, marked by vertical striae, which were formerly believed to be minute channels, by which the chyle was taken up into the interior of the cell, and by them transferred to the lacteal vessels of the mucous membrane. It presents for examination the following constituents :— Simple follicles. Valvules conniventes. /Duodenal glands. Villi. Glands. Solitary gland.. {Agminate or Peyer's glands. The valvules conniventes (valves of Kerkring) are reduplications or foldings of the mucous membrane and submucous tissue, containing no muscular fibres. Unlike the folds in the stomach they are permanent, and are not obliterated when the intestine is distended. They extend transversely across the cylinder of the intestine for about one-half or two-thirds of its circumference. The larger folds are about two inches in length, and one-third of an inch in depth at their broadest part; but the greater number are of smaller size. The larger and smaller folds alternate with each other.