TYMPANUM. 609 The osseous portion is about half an inch in length. It commences in the lower part of the anterior wall of the tympanum, below the processus cochleariformis, and gradually narrowing, terminates in an oval dilated opening, at the angle of junction of the petrous and squamous portions, its extremity presenting a jagged margin which serves for the attachment of the cartilaginous portion. The cartilaginous portion, about an inch in length, is formed of a triangular plate of elastic fibro-cartilage, curled upon itself, an interval being left below, between the margins of the cartilage, which is completed by fibrous tissue. Its canal is narrow behind, wide, expanded, and somewhat trumpet-shaped in front, terminating by an oval orifice, at the ripper part and side of the pharynx, behind the back part of the inferior meatus. Through this canal the mucous membrane of the pharynx is con- tinuous with that which lines the tympanum. The mucous membrane is covered with ciliated epithelium. The membra?ia tympani separates the cavity of the tympanum from the bottom of the external meatus. It is a thin, semi-transparent membrane, nearly oval in form, somewhat broader above than below, and directed very obliquely downwards and inwards. Its circumference is contained in a groove at the inner end of the meatus, which skirts the circumference of this part, excepting above. The handle of the malleus descends vertically between the inner and middle layers of this membrane, as far down as its centre, where it is firmly attached, drawing the membrane inwards, so that its outer- surface is concave, its inner convex. Structure. This membrane is composed of three layers, an external (cuticular), a middle (fibrous), and an internal (mucous). The cuticular lining is derived from the integument lining the meatus. The fibrous layer consists of fibrous and elastic tissues; some of the fibres radiate from near the centre to the circumference; others are arranged, in the form of a dense circular ring, round the attached margin of the membrane. The mucous lining is derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum. The vessels pass to the membrana tympani along the handle of the malleus, and are distributed between its layers. Ossicles of the Tympanum. (Fig. 334.) The tympanum is traversed by a chain of movable bones, three in number, the malleus, incus, and stapes. The former is attached to the membrana tympani, the latter to the fenestra ovalis, the incus being placed between the two, to both of which it is connected by delicate articulations. The Malleus, so named from its fancied resemblance to a hammer, consists of a head, neck, and three processes; the handle 334 —The Small Bones of the Ear, seen or manubrium, the processus gracilis, and the processus brevis. The head is the large upper extremity of the bone ; it is oval in shape, and articulates posteriorly with the incus, being free in 'the rest of its extent. The neck is the narrow contracted part just beneath the head; and below this is a prominence, to which the various processes are attached. The manubrium is a vertical process of bone, which is connected by its outer margin with the membrana tympani. It decreases in size towards its extremity, where it is curved slightly forwards, and flattened from within outwards. The processus gracilis is a long and very delicate process, which passes from the eminence below the neck forwards and outwards to the Glaserian fissure, to which it is connected by bone and ligamentous fibres. It gives attachment to the Laxator tympani. The processus brevis is a slight conical projection, which springs from the root of E R from the Outside. (Enlarged.) process