MUSCLES AND FASCIiE. 274 The Subanconeus is a small muscle distinct from the Triceps, and analogous to the Subcrureus in the lower limb. It may be exposed by removing the Triceps from the lower part of the humerus. It consists of one or two slender fasciculi, which arise from the humerus, immediately above the olecranon fossa, and are inserted into the posterior ligament of the elbow-joint. Nerves. The Triceps and Subanconeus are supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve. Actions. The Triceps is the great Extensor muscle of the forearm; serving, when the forearm is flexed, to draw it into a right line with the arm. It is the direct antagonist of the Biceps and Brachialis anticus. When the arm is extended, the long head of the muscle may assist the Teres major and Latissimus dorsi in drawing the humerus backwards. The long head of the Triceps protects the under part of the shoulder-joint, and prevents displacement of the head of the humerus downwards and backwards. Muscles of the Forearm. Dissection. To dissect the forearm, place the limb in the position indicated in fig. 172 ; make a vertical incision along the middle line from the elbow to the wrist, and a transverse incision at each extremity of this ; the flaps of integument being removed, the fascia of the forearm is exposed. The deejuJascia of the forearm, continuous above with that enclosing the arm, is a, dense highly glistening aponeurotic investment, which forms a general sheath enclosing the muscles in this region ; it is attached behind to the olecranon and posterior border of the ulna, and gives off from its inner surface numerous inter- muscular septa, which enclose each muscle separately. It consists of circular and oblique fibres, connected together by numerous vertical fibres. It is much thicker on the dorsal than on the palmar surface, and at the lower than at the upper part of the forearm, and is strengthened by tendinous fibres derived from the Brachialis anticus and Biceps in front, and from the Triceps behind. Its inner surface gives origin to muscular fibres, especially at the upper part of the inner and outer sides of the forearm, and forms the boundaries of a series of conical- shaped cavities, in which the muscles are contained. Besides the vertical septa separating each muscle, transverse septa are given off both on the anterior and posterior surfaces of the forearm, separating the deep from the superficial layer of muscles. Numerous apertures exist in the fascia for the passage of vessels and nerves; one of these, of large size, situated at the front of the elbow, serves for the passage of a communicating branch between the superficial and deep veins. The muscles of the forearm may be subdivided into groups corresponding to the region they occupy. One group occupies the inner and anterior aspect of the fore- arm, and comprises the Flexor and Pronator muscles. Another group occupies its outer side; and a third, its posterior aspect. The two latter groups include all the Extensor and Supinator muscles. Anterior Brachial Region. Superficial Layer. Pronator Radii Teres. Flexor Carpi Ulnaris. Flexor Carpi Radialis. Flexor Sublimis Digitorum. Palmaris Longua. The muscles take origin from the internal condyle of the humerus by a com- mon tendon. The Pronator Radii Teres arises by two heads. One, the larger and more superficial, arises from the humerus, immediately above the internal condyle, and from the tendon common to the origin of the other muscles; also from the fascia