FEMORAL HERNIA. 773' SURGICAL ANATOMY OF FEMORAL HERNIA. The dissection of the parts comprised in the anatomy of femoral hernia should he per- formed, if possible, upon a female subject free from fat. The subject should lie upon its back ; a block is first placed under the pelvis, the thigh everted, and the knee slightly bent, and retained in this position. An incision should then be made from the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium along Poupart's ligament to the symphysis pubis; a second incision should be carried transversely across the thigh about six inches beneath the pre- ceding ; and these are to be connected together by a vertical one carried along the inner side of the thigh. These several incisions should divide merely the integument; this is to . be reflected outwards, when the superficial fascia will be exposed. The superficial fascia at the upper part of the thigh consists of two layers, between which are found the cutaneous vessels and nerves, and numerous lym- phatic glands. The superficial layer is a thick and dense fibro-cellular membrane, in the meshes of which is found a considerable amount of adipose tissue, varying in quantity in different subjects; this layer may be traced upwards over Poupart's ligament to be continuous with the superficial fascia of the abdomen ; whilst below, and on the inner and outer sides of the limb, it is continuous with the superficial fascia covering the rest of the thigh. This layer should be detached by dividing it across in the same direction as the external incisions ; its removal will be facilitated by commencing at the lower and inner angle of the space, detaching it at first from the front of the internal saphenous vein, and dissecting it off from the anterior surface of that vessel and its branches; it should then be reflected out- wards, in the same manner as the integument. The cutaneous vessels and nerves, and super- ficial inguinal glands, are then exposed, lying upon the deep layer of the superficial fascia. These are the internal saphenous vein, and the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and superficial external pudic vessels, as well as numerous lymphatics ascending with the saphenous vein to the inguinal glands. The internal saphenous vein is a vessel of considerable size, which ascends obliquely upwards along the inner side of the thigh. It passes through the saphenous open- ing in the fascia lata to terminate in the femoral vein. This vessel is accompanied by numerous lymphatics, which return the lymph from the dorsum of the foot and inner side of the leg and thigh : they terminate in the inguinal glands, which sur- round the saphenous opening. Diverging from the same point are the superficial epigastric vessels, which run across Poupart's ligament obliquely upwards and inwards, to the lower part of the abdomen ; the superficial circumflex iliac vessels, which pass obliquely outwards along Poupart's ligament to the crest of the ilium ; and the superficial external pudic vessels, which pass inwards to the perinseuni and scrotum. These vessels supply the subcutaneous areolar tissue and the integument, and are accompanied by numerous lymphatic vessels, which return the lymph from the same parts to the inguinal glands. The superficial inguinal glands are arranged in two groups, one of which is dis- posed above and parallel with Poupart's ligament, and the other below the ligament surrounding the termination of the saphenous vein, and following (occasionally) the course of that vessel a short distance along the thigh. The upper chain receives the lymphatic vessels from the penis, scrotum, lower part of the abdomen, perinaeuni, and buttock; the lower chain receives the lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. The nerves supplying the integument of the region are derived from the ilio- inguinal, the genito-crural, and anterior crural. The ilio-inguinal nerve may be found on the inner side of the internal saphenous vein, the terminal branch of the genito-crural nerve outside the vein, and the middle and external cutaneous nerves more external. The deep layer of superficial fascia should be divided in the same direction as the external incisions, and separated from the fascia lata ; this is easily effected to the inner side of the saphenous vein, when it forms a distinct though very thin mem-