THE PERITONEUM. in round the hepatic artery, as it passes forwards and upwards to the liver, and after- wards expands into a large sac or bag, which covers the posterior surface of the liver and stomach, and the front of the upper part of the posterior wall of the abdomen, separating these structures from each other. This large cul-de-sac of peritoneum is called the lesser cavity of the peritoneum, but is only a part of the general cavity, differentiated from it by the constriction produced at the situation of the hepatic artery. In this respect the peritoneum may be compared to an hour-glass with two unequal globes: the smaller one constituting the lesser cavity of the peritoneum ; the larger one the greater cavity; and the constriction where the two globes communi- cate corresponding to the constriction in the peritoneum where it hooks round the hepatic artery. This constriction is called the foramen of Winslow. A process of this lesser bag of the peritoneum is pushed backwards and upwards behind the liver, extending as far as the under surface of the Diaphragm, the posterior part of which it covers. At its extremity this process is in contact with a process of the greater bag of the peritoneum, which is pushed in from the front, in the cleft between the upper surface of the li ver and the under surface of the Diaphragm. Where these two layers are in contact (passing down from the Diaphragm to the liver) they form some of the ligaments of the liver, thus supporting and holding it in position. A second process of the lesser bag of the peritoneum is pushed forwards on the under surface of the liver, which it invests as far as the transverse fissure ; here it takes a sudden turn downwards to the lesser curvature of the stomach, and forms the poste- rior layer of the gastro-hepatic or lesser omentum. Between the transverse fissure of the liver and the lesser curvature of the stomach it is in contact with the greater bag of the peritoneum, a process of which is sent inwards between the liver and stomach from the front. Between the two layers are situated the hepatic artery, the portal vein, and the hepatic duct. A third process of the lesser bag passes from the great curvature of the stomach in front of the small intestines for a variable distance, and, being reflected upon itself, ascends to the upper surface of the transverse colon. In doing this it forms a loose fold lying between the small intestines and the abdominal wall, but contained between two layers of the greater bag, which are re- flected in a similar way to the under surface of the transverse colon from the greater curvature of the stomach. This process of the lesser bag, after investing the upper surface of the transverse colon passes back to the spine, forming the upper layer of the transverse meso'-colon, and, ascending in front of the pancreas and crura of the Diaphragm, reaches the under surface of the Diaphragm, where it is continuous with the process of the lesser bag, which we have seen lining the under surface of the posterior part of this muscle. Thus the lesser cavity of the peritoneum is seen to be a complete sac or bag, separating the back and part of the under surface of the liver, the posterior wall of the stomach and the upper surface of the transverse colon from the back part of the under surface of the Diaphragm and the upper part of the posterior wall of the abdomen. The greater cavity of the peritoneum separates the anterior surfaces of the viscera from the front wall of the abdomen; so that in our comparison of the two cavities to an hour-glass it must be borne in mind that they are not in the same straight line as the two globes of the hour-glass, but that, at the point of constriction, the smaller cavity is bent round the hepatic artery, so as to lie behind the greater cavity. The greater sac of the peritoneum is placed in front of the viscera, one layer being in contact with them, the other lining the inner surface of the anterior wall of the abdomen. The layer which is in relation with the viscera sends backwards diver- ticula which pass between the various organs, and in certain places comes in contact with the peritoneum, forming the lesser bag in the manner described above. Thus we have one of these diverticula sent backwards between the liver and Diaphragm, covering the anterior part of the under surface of the Diaphragm, until it meets the peiitoneum of the lesser cavity, and covering the upper surface of the liver as far back- wards as the ligaments. The extremity of this diverticulum is in contact with a similar diverticulum of the lesser bag, already described, and the two layers, when in apposi- tion, form the coronary and lateral ligaments of the liver. Another process is sent T T