OBTURATOR 557 The External Cutaneous Nerve arises from the loop between the second and third lumbar nerves. It perforates the outer border of the Psoas muscle about its middle, and crosses the Iliacus muscle obliquely, to the notch immediately beneath the anterior superior spine of the ilium, where it passes under Poupart's ligament into the thigh, and divides into two branches of nearly equal size. The anterior branch descends in an aponeurotic canal formed in the fascia lata, becomes superficial about four inches below Poupart's ligament, and divides into branches which are distributed to the integument along the anterior and outer part of the thigh, as far down as the knee. This nerve occasionally communicates with the long saphenous nerve in front of the knee-joint. The posterior branch pierces the fascia lata, and subdivides into branches which pass backwards across the outer and posterior surface of the thigh, supplying the integument from the crest of the ilium as far as the middle of the thigh. The Obturator Nerve supplies the Obturator externus and Adductor muscles of the thigh, the articulations of the hip and knee, and occasionally the integument of the thigh and leg. It arises by two branches; one from the third, the other from the fourth lumbar nerve, receiving also some fibres from the second. It descends through the inner fibres of the Psoas muscle, and emerges from its inner border near the brim of the pelvis; it then runs along the lateral wall of the pelvis, above the obturator vessels, to the upper part of the obturator foramen, where it enters the thigh, and divides into an anterior and a posterior branch separated by the Adductor brevis muscle. The anterior branch (fig. 305) passes down in front of the Adductor brevis, being covered.Jay the Pectineus and Adductor longus; and at the lower border of the latter muscles communicates with the internal cutaneous and internal saphenous nerves, forming a kind of plexus. It then descends upon the femoral artery, upon which it is finally distributed. This nerve, near the obturator foi'amen, gives off an articular branch to the hip- joint. Behind the Pectineus, it distributes muscular branches to the Adductor longus and Gracilis, and occasionally to the Adductor brevis and Pectineus, and receives a communicating branch from the accessory obturator nerve. Occasionally this communicating branch is continued down, as a cutaneous branch, to the thigh and leg. This occasional cutaneous branch emerges from the lower border of the Adductor longus, descends along the posterior margin of the Sartorius to the inner side of the knee, where it pierces the deep fascia, communicates with the long saphenous nerve, and is distributed to the integument of the inner side of the leg, as low down as its middle. When the branch is small, its place is supplied by the internal cutaneous nerve. The posterior branch of the obturator nerve pierces the Obturator externus, and C passes behind the Adductor brevis on the front of the Adductor magnus, where it divides into numerous muscular branches, which supply the Obturator externus, the Adductor magnus, and occasionally the Adductor brevis. One of the branches gives off a filament to the knee-joint. The articular branch for the knee-joint perforates the lower part of the Adductor magnus, and enters the popliteal space ; it then descends upon the popliteal artery, as far as the back part of the knee-joint, where it perforates the posterior ligament, and is distributed to the synovial membrane. It gives filaments to the artery in its course. lt The Accessory Obturator Nerve (fig. 303) is of a small size, and arises either from the obturator nerve near its origin, or by separate filaments from the third and fourth lumbar nerves, probably receiving also some fibres from the second through its communicating branch. It descends along the inner border of the Psoas muscle, crosses the body of the pubes, and passes beneath the Pectineus muscle, where it divides into numerous branches. One of these supplies the Pectineus, penetrating its under surface; another is distributed to the hip-joint; while a third communi- cates with the anterior branch of the obturator nerve. This branch, when of large size, is prolonged (as already mentioned), as a cutaneous branch, to the leg. The