469 SPINAL CORD. " Structure. The arachnoid is a delicate membrane, made up of closely arranged parallel bundles of connective tissue, covered on the outer or dural surface by one or two layers of endothelial cells. On the inner surface it gives off the trabecular which stretch across the sub-arachnoid space. The Pia Mater of the cord is exposed on the removal of the arachnoid (fig. 259). It covers the entire surface of the cord, to which it is very intimately adherent, forming its neurilemma, and sends a process downwards into its anterior fissure, and another, extremely delicate, into the posterior fissure. It also forms a sheath for each of the filaments of the spinal nerves, and invests the nerves themselves. A longitudinal fibrous band extends along the middle line on its anterior surface, called by Haller the linea splendens; and a somewhat similar band, the Ugamentum denticulatum, is situated on each side. At the point where the cord terminates, the pia mater becomes contracted, and is continued down as a long, slender filament (filum ter- minate), which descends through the centre of the mass of nerves forming the cauda equina, and is blended with the impervious sheath of dura mater, on a level with the top of the sacral canal. It assists in maintaining the cord in its position during the movements of the trunk, and is, from this circumstance, called the central ligament of the spinal cord. It contains a little grey nervous substance, which may be traced for some distance into its upper part, and is accompanied by a small artery and vein. Structure. The pia mater of the cord is less vascular in structure than the pia mater of the brain, with which it is continuous, being thicker, more dense in struc- ture, and composed of bundles of connective-tissue fibres, arranged for the most part longitudinally. It is usually described as consisting of two layers, between which is a network of elastic fibres, in which the vessels ramify. It is also supplied with nerves, which are derived from the sympathetic, and from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves. At the upper part of the cord, the pia mater presents a greyish, mottled tint, which is owing to yellow or brown pigment cells scattered among the elastic fibres. The Ligamentum Denticulatum (fig. 259) is a narrow fibious band, situated on each side of the spinal cord, throughout its entire length, and separating the anterior from the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, having received its name from the serrated appearance which it presents. Its inner border is continuous with the pia mater, at the side of the cord. Its outer border presents a series of triangular, dentated serrations, the points of which are fixed, at intervals, to the dura mater. These serrations are about twenty in number', on each side, the first being attached to the dura mater, opposite the margin of the foramen magnum, between the vertebral artery and the hypoglossal nerve; and the last near the lower end of the cord. Its use is to support the cord in the fluid by which it is surrounded. The Spinal Cobd. The spinal cord (medulla spinalis) is the cylindrical elongated part of the cerebro- spinal axis, which is contained in the vertebral canal. Its length is usually about sixteen or seventeen inches, and its weight, when divested of its membranes and nerves, about one ounce and a half, its proportion to the encephalon being about 1 to 33. It does not nearly fill the canal in which it is contained, its investing membranes being separated from the surrounding walls by areolar tissue and a plexus of veins. It occupies, in the adult, the upper two-thirds of the vertebral canal, ex- tending from the upper border of the atlas to the lower border of the body of the first lumbar vertebra, where it terminates in a slender filament of grey substance, appears to have derived additional confirmation from the investigations of Retzius and Axel Key, who state that the connection which was formerly described as taking place between the two layers of the arachnoid as they were prolonged in the form of a tubular I sheath over the nerves, does not exist. The same remark applies to the arachnoid membrane of the brain, which is no longer regarded as a closed sac. See p. 473.