KNEE-JOINT. O 2 J95 The Arteries supplying the joint are derived from the anastomotic branch of the femoral, articular branches of the popliteal, and recurrent branch of the anterior tibial. The Nerves are derived from the obturator, anterior crural, and external and internal popliteal. Actions. The knee-joint allows of movements of flexion and extension, and of slight rotation inwards and outwards. The complicated mechanism of this joint renders it necessary to study each of these movements separately, pointing out incidentally the functions of each of the principal components of the joint. The tibia executes a rotatory movement during flexion around an imaginary axis drawn transversely through its upper end. This causes a change in the apposition of the tibia and femur. Thus, in extreme extension, it is the anterior portion of the tibia which is in contact with the femur ; in the semiflexed position, its middle; in com- plete flexion, its posterior edge.* Also, during flexion the articular surface of the tibia, covered by the interarticular cartilages, glides backwards on the femur. The patella is attached by the inextensible ligamentum patellar to the tubercle of the tibia, and as the tibia glides backwards, the patella falls moi'e and more into the intercondyloid notch of the femur. The ligamentum patella; is put on the stretch during flexion, as is also the posterior crucial ligament in extreme flexion. The other ligaments are all relaxed by flexion of the joint, though the relaxation of the anterior crucial ligament is very trifling. In partial flexion, before the liga- mentum patella? comes upon the stretch, and while both crucial ligaments are somewhat relaxed, some rotation of the joint is permitted. Flexion is only checked during life by the contact of the leg with the thigh. In extension, the ligamentum patella? becomes relaxed, and, in extreme extension, completely so, so as to allow free lateral movement to the patella, which then rests on the front of the condyles of the femur. The other ligaments are all on the stretch. When the limb has been brought into a straight line extension is checked, mainly by the tension of the posterior crucial ligament. The movements of rotation of which the knee is susceptible are permitted in the semiflexed condition by the partial relaxation of both crucial ligaments, as well as the lateral ligaments. Rotation inwards (or pronation of the leg) is checked by the anterior crucial ligament. The chief agent in effecting this movement is the Popliteus muscle. Rotation outwards (or supination) is checked by the posterior crucial ligament. It is effected mainly by the Biceps. The main function of the crucial ligaments is to act as a direct bond of union between the tibia and femur, preventing the former bone from being carried too far backwards or forwards. They also assist the lateral ligaments in resisting any lateral bending of the joint. The interarticular cartilages are intended, as it seems, to adapt the surface of the tibia to the shape of the femur to a certain extent, so as to fill up the intervals which would otherwise be left in the varying positions of the joint, and to interrupt the jars which would be so frequently transmitted up the limb in jumping or falls on the feet.f The patella is a great defence to the knee-joint from any injury in- flicted in front, and it distributes upon a large and tolerably even surface during kneeling the pressure which would otherwise fall upon the prominent ridges of the condyles : it also affords leverage to the Quadriceps extensor muscle to act upon the tibia, and Mr. Ward has pointed out J how this leverage varies in the various positions of the joint, so that the action of the muscle produces velocity at the ex- pense of force in the commencement of extension, and on the contrary, at the close of extension tends to diminish the velocity, and therefore the shock to the ligaments; whilst in the standing position it draws the tibia powerfully forwards, and thus maintains it in its place. * See Plate XLVII. in Humphry, on The Skeleton. t Prof. Humphry teaches that the interarticular cartilages do not follow the movements of the tibia in pronation and supination; so that these movements take place between the tibia and the cartilages, while the chief movements of the joint might be said to take place between the cartilages and the femur. If this be so, it would establish an interesting analogy with other joints (such as the lower jaw) in which interarticular cartilages are present. % ' Human Osteology,' p. 405.