SPINAL NERVES. 560 the spinal nerves; whilst those of the lowest sacral and coccygeal nerve are the smallest. The roots of these nerves are of very considerable length, being longer than those of any of the other spinal nerves, on account of the spinal cord not extending beyond the first lumbar vertebra. From their great length, and the appearance they present in connection with the spinal cord, the roots of origin of these nerves are called collectively the cauda equina. Each sacral and coccygeal nerve divides into two divisions, anterior and posterior. The posterior sacral nerves (fig. 301, p. 551) are small, diminish in size from above downwards, and emerge, except the last, from the sacral canal by the posterior sacral foramina. The three upper ones are covered, at their exit from the sacral canal, by the Multifidus spina;, and divide into external and internal branches. The internal branches are small, and supply the Multifidus spina?. The external branches join with one another, and with the last lumbar and fourth sacral nerves, by means of communicating loops. These branches pass out- wards, to the outer surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, where they form a second series of loops beneath the Gluteus maximus. Cutaneous branches from this second series of loops, usually three in number, pierce the Gluteus maximus : one near the posterior inferior spine of the ilium ; another opposite the end of the sacrum; and the third, midway between the other two. They supply the integument over the posterior part of the gluteal region. The tivo lower posterior sacral nerves are situated below the Multifidus spina?. They are of small size, and do not divide into internal and external br anches, but join with each other, and with the coccygeal nerve, so as to form loops on the back of the sacrum, filaments from which supply the integument over the coccyx. The coccygeal nerve divides into its anterior and posterior division in the spinal canal. The posterior division is the smaller. It receives, as already mentioned, a communicating branch from the last sacral, and is lost in the fibrous structure on the back of the coccyx. The anterior sacral nerves diminish in size from above downwards. The four upper ones emerge from the anterior sacral foramina: the anterior division of the fifth, after emerging from the spinal canal through its terminal opening, curves forwards between the sacrum and the coccyx. All the anterior sacral nerves com- municate with the sacral ganglia of the sympathetic, at then exit from the sacral foramina. The first nerve, of large size, unites with the lumbo-sacral cord, formed by the fifth lumbar, and a branch from the fourth. The second, equal in size to the preceding, and the third, about one-fourth the size of the second, unite with this trunk, and form, with a small fasciculus from the fourth, the sacral plexus. The fourth anterior sacral nerve sends a branch to join the sacral plexus. The remaining portion of the nerve divides into visceral and muscular branches : and a communicating filament descends to join the fifth sacral nerve. The visceral branches are distributed to the viscera of the pelvis, communicating with the sympathetic nerve. These branches ascend upon the rectum and bladder : in the female, upon the vagina and bladder, communicating with branches of the sym- pathetic to form the hypogastric plexus. The muscular branches are distributed to the Levator ani, Coccygeus, and Sphincter ani. Cutaneous filaments arise from the latter branch, which supply the integument between the anus and coccyx. The fifth anterior sacral nerve, after passing from the lower end of the sacral canal, curves forwards through the fifth sacral foramen, formed between the lower part of the sacrum and the transverse process of the first piece of the coccyx. It piei'ces the Coccygeus muscle, and descends upon its anterior surface to the tip of the coccyx, where it again perforates the muscle, to be distributed to the integument over the back part and side of the coccyx. This nerve communicates above with the fourth sacral, and below with the coccygeal nerve, and supplies the Coccygeus muscle. The anterior division of the coccygeal nerve is a delicate filament which escapes at the termination of the sacral canal; it passes downwards behind the rudimentary