lxxiii NERVOUS TISSUE. tubular membrane* or neurilemma,-]- or primitive sheath, which at first appears structureless, but, when stained with nitrate of silver, is seen to consist of nucleated endothelial cells. The white substance is regarded as being a fatty matter in a fluid state, which insulates and protects the essential part of the nerve—the axis-cylinder. The partial coagulation of this white substance which follows on cooling gives the nerve-tube, when examined after death, a double contour—the darker part seen on the outside of the axis-cylinder being the white substance of Schwann, or medul- lary sheath. In consequence of the extreme delicacy of the tubular mem- brane, even slight pressure will often give nerve-tubes a varicose outline ; and drops of oil, from the transudation of the fatty matter, often form outside the tubular membrane. This is, of course, promoted by the action of ether. Fig. XL.—Transverse section through a microscopic nerve, representing a compound nerve- bundle, surrounded by perineurium. Magnified 120 diameters. The medullated fibres are seen as circles with a central dot, viz., medullary sheath and axis- cylinder, in transverse section. They are embedded in endoneurium, containing numerous nuclei, which belong to the connective-tissue cells of the latter. (Klein and Noble Smith.) p. Perineurium, consisting of lamina? of fibrous connective tissues, alternating with flattened nucleated connective- tissue cells. /. Lymph-space between perineurium and surface of nerve-bundle. The axis-cylinder constitutes about one-half or one-third of the nerve- tube, the white substance being greater in proportion in the nerves than in the central organs. The axis-cylinder is perfectly transparent, and is therefore indistinguishable in a perfectly fresh and natural state of the nerve. It is described by Kolliker as being distinguished from the white substance by the fact that, though soft and flexible, it is not fluid and viscid, but firm and elastic, somewhat like coagulated albumen, with which it appears for the most part also to agree in its chemical characters. As ordinarily seen it appears pale and homogeneous, or more rarely finely granular or striated. Besides these nerve-fibres, which consist of two distinct parts, others are * Dr. Beale describes and figures cases in which several fibres, some with, others without the white substance, a.re enclosed in a common tubular membrane. See Phil. Trans., 1862. t In older histological works the term 'neurilemma' is used to designate the fibrous envelope of the whole nerve, now called ' perineurium.'