433 CEKEBEAL. intervals, pouch-like dilatations, or culs de sac, which nerve as reservoirs for the blood. These are the veins of the diploe : they can only be displayed by removing the outer table of the skull. In adult life, as long as the cranial bones are distinct and separable, these veins are confined to the particular bones; but in old age, when the sutures are united, they communicate with each other, and increase in size. These vessels communicate, in the interior of the cranium, with the meningeal veins, and with the sinuses of the dura mater; and on the exterior of the skull, with the veins of the pericranium. They are divided into the frontal, which opens into the supra-orbital vein, by an aperture at the supra-orbital notch ; the anterior temporal, which is confined chiefly to the frontal bone, and opens into one of the deep temporal veins, after escaping by an aperture in the great wing of the sphenoid ; the posterior temporal, which is con- fined to the parietal bone, and terminates in the lateral sinus by an aperture at the posterior inferior angle of the parietal bone ; and the occipital, the largest of the four, which is confined to the occipital bone, and opens either into the occipital vein or the occipital sinus. Cerebral Veins. The Cerebral Veins are remarkable for the extreme thinness of their coats, in consequence of the muscular tissue in them being wanting, and for the absence of valves. They may be divided into two sets, the superficial, which are placed on the surface, and the deep veins, which occupy the interior of the organ. The Superficial Cerebral Veins ramify upon the surface of the brain, being lodged in the sulci, between the convolutions, a few running across the convolutions. They receive branches from the substance of the brain, and terminate in the sinuses. They are named, from the position they occupy, superior, inferior, internal, and external. The Superior Cerebral Veins, seven or eight in number on each side, pass for- wards and inwards towards the great longitudinal fissure, where they receive the internal cerebral veins, which return the blood from the convolutions of the flat surface of the corresponding hemisphere; near their termination, they become in- vested with a tubular sheath of the arachnoid membrane, and open into the superior longitudinal sinus, in the opposite direction to the course of the blood. The external cerebral veins, which return the blood from the convolutions on the outer surface of the hemisphere, also open, for the most part, into these veins. The Inferior Cerebral Veins are divisible into three sets, from the position they occupy at the base of the brain; they are named Anterior, Lateral, and Median Inferior Cerebral Veins. The Anterior Inferior Cerebral Veins commence on the under surface of the anterior lobes of the brain, and terminate in the cavernous sinuses. The Lateral Inferior Cerebral Veins commence on the under surface of the temporo-sphenoidal lobe, and at the base of the brain : they unite to form from three to five veins, which open into the lateral sinus from before backwards. One of these sometimes opens into the superior petrosal sinus. The Median Inferior Cerebral Veins, which are very large, commence at the fore part of the under surface of the cerebrum, and froru the convolutions of the posterior lobe, and terminate in the straight sinus behind the vense Galeni. The Deep Cerebral, or Ventricular Veins (vena? Galeni), are two in number, one fi'om the right, the other from the left, ventricle. They are each formed by two veins, the vena corporis striati, and the choroid vein. They run backwards, parallel with one another, enclosed within the velum interpositum, and pass out of the brain at the great transverse fissure, between the posterior extremity, or splenium, of the corpus callosum and the tubercula quadrigemina, to enter the straight sinus. The two veins usually unite to form one before opening into the straight sinus. The vena corporis striati commences in the groove between the corpus striatum and thalamus opticus, receives numerous veins from both of these parts, and unites F F