ORGANS OF SENSE. 594 7. Outer nuclear layer. 8. Membrana limitans externa. 9. Layer of rods and cones. Jacob's membrane. 10. Pigmentary layer. 1. The membrana limitans interna is the most internal layer of the retina, and is in contact with the hyaloid membrane of the vitreous humour It is derived from the supporting framework of the retina, with which tissue it will be described. 2. The fibrous layer is made up of nerve-fibres, tbe direct continuation of the fibres of the optic nerve. This nerve therefore passes through all the other layers of the retina, except the one previously mentioned, to reach its destination iu the fibrous layer. As the nerve passes through the lamina cribrosa of the sclerotic coat, the fibres of which it is composed, lay aside their medullary sheaths and are continued onwards, through the choroid and retina, as simple axis-cylinders. When these non-medullated fibres reach the internal surface of the retina they radiate from their point of entrance over the surface of the retina, grouped in bundles, and in many places, according to Michel, arranged in plexuses. The layer is thickest at the optic nerve entrance and gradually diminishes in thickness towards the ora serrata. Vertical sections of the human retina. Fig. 324, half, an inch from the entrance of the optic nerve. Fig. 325 close to the latter. 1. Layer of rodsandcones (columnar layer), bounded underneath by tli<- membrana limitans externa. 2. External granular layer. 3. Intergraimlar layer. 4. Internal granular layer. 5. Molecular layer. 6. Layer of the ganglion-cells. 7. Expansion of optic fibres. 8. Sustentacular fibres of Muller. 9. Their attachment to the membrana limitans interna. 3. The vesicular layer consists of a single layer of large ganglion cells; except in the macula lutea, where there are several layers. The cells are somewhat flask- shaped; their rounded internal margin resting on the preceding layer and sending off a single process, which is prolonged into the fibrous layer and is believed to be continuous with a nerve-fibre. From the opposite extremity of the cell one or more thicker processes extend into the inner molecular layer, where they divide dichoto- mously and become lost in its reticulum, or, according to some, pass through this layer to reach the inner nuclear layer. 4. The inner molecular layer consists of a stratum of granular-looking substance, from which circumstance it is sometimes called the ' inner granular' layer. It is made up of a dense reticulum of minute fibrils, intermingled with the fine processes of the ganglion cells and also processes derived from certain cells contained in the next layer, immediately to be described. No direct connection between these