SPINAL NERVES. 542 Branches below the Clavicle. To the chest To the shoulder Musculocutaneous. Internal cutaneous* Lesser internal cutaneous. 7hA " Median.-^j, ^ Ulnar. * Musculo-spiral. The branches given off below the clavicle, are derived from the three cords of the brachial plexus, in the following manner :— From the outer cord, arises the external of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the musculo-cutaneous nerve, and the outer head of the median. From the inner cord, arises the internal of the two anterior thoracic nerves, the internal cutaneous, the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg), the ulnar and inner hea.d of the median. From the posterior cord, arise two of the three subscapular nerves, the third arising from the posterior division of the trunk formed by the fifth and sixth cervical nerves : the cord then divides into the musculo-spii-al and circumflex nerves. The Anterior Thoracic Nerves (fig. 299), two in number, supply the Pectoral muscles. The external, or supei'ficial branch, the larger of the two, arises from the outer cord of the brachial plexus, passes inwards, across the axillary artery and vein, pierces the costo-coracoid membrane, and is distributed to the under surface of the Pec- toralis major. It sends down a communicating filament to join the internal branch, which forms a loop round the inner side of the axillary artery. The internal, or deep branch, arises from the inner cord, and passes upwards between the axillary arteiy and vein (sometimes perforates the vein), and joins with the filament from the superficial branch. It then passes to the under surface of the Pectoralis minor muscle, where it divides into a number of branches, which supply the muscle on its under surface. Some of the branches pass through the muscle ; others wind round its upper border and pierce the costo-coracoid membrane to supply the Pectoralis major. The Subscapular Nerves, three in number, supply the Subscapulars, Teres major, and Latissimus dorsi muscles. The upper subscapular nerve, the smallest, enters the upper part of the Subscapu- laris muscle. The lower subscapular nerve enters the axillary border of the Subscapularis, and terminates in the Teres major. The latter muscle is sometimes supplied by a separate branch. The long subscapular, the largest of the three, follows the course cf the subscapu- lar artery, along the posterior wall of the axilla to the Latissimus dorsi, through which it may be traced as far as its lower border. The Circumflex Nerve (fig. 300) supplies some of the muscles, and the integu- ment of the shoulder, and the shoulder-joint. It arises from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, in common with the musculo-spiral nerve. It is at first placed behind the axillary artery,-between it and the subscapularis muscle, and passes down- wards and outwards to the lower border of that muscle. It then winds backwards, in company with the posterior circumflex artery, through a quadrilateral space, bounded above by the Teres minor, below by the Teres major, internally by the long head of the Triceps, and externally by the neck of the humerus, and divides into two branches. The upper branch winds round the neck of the humerus, beneath the Deltoid, with the posterior circumflex vessels, as far as the anterior border of that muscle.