SPINAL NERVES. 554 The third lumbar nerve gives off a small filament to the external cutaneous and divides into two large branches, which assist iu forming the anterior crural and obturator nerves. When the accessory obturator exists, some of its fibres are derived from this third nerve. It also gives off a communicating branch to the fourth. The fourth nerve gives a communicating filament to the fifth and divides into two branches, which complete the anterior crural "and obturator. Sometimes it also furnishes part of the accessory obturator. From this arrangement it follows that the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal are derived entirely from the first lumbar nerve. The genito-crural partly from the first, but principally from the second nerve. The external cutaneous for the most part from the second, but receiving a small filament from the third. The anterior crural and obturator by fibres derived from the second, third, and fourth. And the accessory obturator, when it exists, from the third and fourth, probably receiving also some fibres from the second through its communicating branch. The branches of the lumbar plexus ai-e the Ilio-hypogastric. Ilio-inguinal. Genito-crural. External cutaneous. Obturator. Accessory obturator. Anterior crural. The Ilio-hypogastric Nerve (superior musculo-cutaneous) a- rises from the first lumbar nei*ve. It pierces the outer border of the Psoas muscle at its upper part, and crosses obliquely in front of the Quadratus lumborum to the crest of the ilium. It then per- forates the Transversalis muscle at its back part, and divides be- tween it and the internal oblique into two branches, iliac and hy- pogastric. The iliac branch pierces the Internal and External oblique muscles immediate! above the crest of the ilium, and is distributed to the integument of the gluteal region, behind the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve (fig. 307). The size of this nerve bears an inverse proportion to that of the cutaneous branch of th last dorsal nerve. The hypogastric branch (fig. 304) continues onwards between the Internal oblique and Transversalis muscles. It then pierces the Internal oblique, and near the middle line perforates the aponeurosis of the External oblique pbove the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument covering the hyjiogastric region. The ilio-hypogastric nerve communicates with the last dorsal and ilio-inguinal nerves. The Ilio-inguinal Nerve (^inferior musculocutaneous), smaller than the pre ceding, arises with it from the first lumbar nerve. It pierces the outer border of the Psoas just below the ilio-hypogastric, and passing obliquely across the Quadratus lumborum and Iliacus muscles, perforates the Transversalis, near the fore part of the crest of the ilium, and communicates with the Ilio-hypogastric nerve between that muscle and the Internal oblique. The nerve then pierces the Internal oblique distributing filaments to it, and, accompanying the spermatic cord, escapes at the external abdominal ring, and is distributed to the integument of the scrotum and upper and inner part of the thigh in the male, and to the labium in the female