GENERAL ANATOMY. lxxviii run horizontally, both in a transverse and longitudinal direction (in refer- ence to the course of the entire convolution), and with various degrees of obliquity. While the bundles themselves are by this means reduced in size, their component fibres become finer in proportion as they traverse the layers towards the surface—in consequence, apparently, of branches which they give off to be connected with cells in then- course. Those which reach the outer grey layer are reduced to the finest dimensions, and form a close network, with which the nuclei and cells are in connection. ' Besides these fibres, which diverge from the central white axis of the convolution, another set, springing from the same source, converge or rather curve inwards from opposite sides, to form arches along some of the grey layers. These arciform fibres run in different planes—trans- versely, obliquely, and longitudinally—and appear to be partly continuous with those of the diverging set which bend round, as already stated, to follow a similar course. All these fibres establish an infinite number of communications in every direction, between different parts of each con- volution, between different convolutions, and between these and the central white substance.' Dr. Clarke then goes on to describe in detail the minuter differences which exist between the structure of the convolutions in different parts of the brain.* Cerebellum.—The cortex of the cerebellum presents a remarkable structure. Externally, beneath the pia mater is a layer of transparent tissue, like neuroglia, traversed by delicate fibres running up from the large nerve-cells found below it, and containing, like the neuroglia, granular nuclei. Some of these granules were described by Lockhart Clarke as connected with the processes of the nerve-cells, which lie immediately beneath. These are called the cells of Purkinje, and are arranged in a single layer, with nerve-fibres interspersed. Below this layer is the inner or granular layer, consisting of a thick aggregation of dark granules among a number of fine nerve-tubes. Lower down is the medullary centre, con- sisting mainly of fibrous nervous structure. (Fig. XLIL) Spinal Cord.—In the spinal cord, on the other hand, the grey matter is entirely in the interior of the organ, and is collected together into one central mass, while the whole of the white matter is external, and is arranged into the various columns and commissures described at pp. 469 et seq. We shall here merely give an account of the intimate structure of the cord, which is condensed from the researches of Dr. Lockhart Clarke.f The white substance of the cord consists of medullated nerve-fibres, with blood-vessels and a delicate connective tissue, the neuroglia. On trans- verse section of the white substance of the cord, a very striking object is presented. It is seen to be studded all over with minute dots, surrounded by a white area, and this again by a dark circle. (Fig. XLYII.) This is due to the longitudinal medullated fibres seen on section. The dot is the axis-cylinder, the white area the substance of Schwann, and the dark circle the tubular membrane of the fibres, which seems to consist of several laminae. Externally the neuroglia is seen to form a delicate connective * See Dr. Clarke's summary of liis researches on this subject in Maudsley on the Pathology and Physiology of Mind, pp. 60-3. f Phil, trans., 1851-1853, part iii.; 1S5S, part i. ; 1S59, part i.; 1862, part ii.