THE SKELETON. 1 o aperture, or several small apertures, at the posterior part of the body of each bone. The arch and processes projecting from it have, on the contoary, an exceedingly thick covering of compact tissue. Development. Each vertebra is formed of three primary cartilaginous portions (fig. 8), one for each lamina and its processes, and one for the body. Ossification commences in the laminae about the sixth week of fetal life, in the situation where the trans- verse pi-ocesses afterwards pro- ject, the ossific granules shooting backwards to the spine, forwards to the body, and outwards into the transverse and articular pro- cesses. Ossification in the body commences in the middle of the cartilage about the eighth week. At birth these three pieces are perfectly separate. During the first year the laminae become united behind, by a portion of cartilage in which the spinous process is ultimately formed, and thus the arch is completed. About the third year the body is joined to the arch on each side, in such a manner that the body is formed from the three original centres of ossification, the amount contributed by the pedicles increasing in extent from below upwards. Thus the bodies of the sacral vertebra? are formed almost entirely from the central nuclei, the bodies of the lumbar are formed laterally and behind by the pedicles; in the dorsal region, the pedicles advance as far forward as the articular depressions for the head of the ribs, forming these cavities of reception ; and in the neck the lateral portions of the bodies are formed entirely by the advance of the pedicles. Be- fore puberty, no other changes occur, excepting a gradual in- crease in the growth of these primary centres, the upper and under surfaces of the bodies, and the ends of the transverse and spinous processes, being tipped with cartilage, in which ossific granules are not as yet deposited. At sixteen years (fig. 9), four secondary centres appear, one for the tip of each transverse process, and two (sometimes 8.—Development of a Vertebra. t jar Body (Rib u-ccA) f for each lamina (6 •- ue/Jij 9- Hij If iS'ewonelicry Centres /Jot eeieji- N(j \ Tr'a us.Proo. fC y 3 2. HOmttimes / 1 fur Svm.proc (Iby??) IO. rWm'*/*r >Tr<r'<rrac') / *5\ . v ' i\^j__3 yforuitdorsurface of bfliiy 11.—Atlas. r;— / forancej: eivrA con- <Q> f for eeic-li ), . ,. .1 lateral mam ) J 12.—Axis. C centres ■ .7 for odontoidjtrae £C?'/iioJ \—/forearfi lateral mots '/for, tally (C?> mo.) 13.—Lumbar Vertebra. Z eiddieional centres for tubercles on Sup .Artie. Pro?. O