736 THE URINARY ORGANS. flattened cells, each with one, two, or three nuclei 5 beneath these, a stratum of lar club-shaped cells, with the narrow extremity directed downwards and wedged 425.—Superficial Layer of the Epithelium of the Bladder. Composed of polyhedral cells of A'arious sizes, each with one, two, or three nuclei. (Klein and Noble Smith.) 426.—Deep Layers of Epithelium of Blad- der, showing large club-shaped cells above, and smaller, more spindle-shaped cells below—each with an oval nucleus. (Klein and Noble Smith. 1 427. -The Bladder and Urethra laid open. Seen from above. between smaller spindle-shaped cells, containing an oval nucleus (figs. 425, 426). Interior of the Bladder.—Upon the inner surface of the base of the bladder, immediately behind the urethral orifice, is a triangular, smooth surface, the apex of which is directed forwards; tbis is the trigonum vesicce, or trigone vesical. It is paler in colour than the rest of the mucous membrane, and never presents any ruga?, even in the collapsed condition of the organ, owing to its intimate adhesion to the subja- cent tissues. It is bounded on each side by two slight ridges, which pass back- wards and out wards to the orifices of the ureters, and correspond with the muscles of these tubes; and at each posterior angle by the orifices of the ureters, which are placed nearly two inches from each other, and about an inch and a half behind the orifice of the urethra. The trigone corresponds with tbeinterval at the base of the bladder, bounded by the prostate in front, and the vesiculae and vasa deferentia on the sides. Pro- jecting from the lower and anterior part of the bladder, into the orifice of the urethra, is a slight elevation cf mucous membrane, called the uvula vesicce. It is formed by a thickening of the pros- tate. The arteries supplying the bladder are the superior, middle, and inferior vesical in the male, with additional branches from the uterine and vaginal in the female. They are all derived from the anterior trunk of the internal iliac. The obturator and sciatic arteries also supply small visceral branches to the bladder. Orifice* cf ducts^ tfCoicfier's Glands ■ylcatu,