MUSCLES OF THE PERINEUM. In rupture of the anterior portion of the urethra, accompanied by extravasation of urine, the fluid makes ita way forwards, beneath this fascia, into the areolar tissue of the scrotum, penis, and anterior and lateral portions of the abdomen; it rarely extends into the areolar tissue on the inner side of the thighs, or backwards around the anus. This limitation of the extravasated fluid to the parts above named is easy of explanation, when the attachments of the deep layer of the super- ficial fascia are considered. When this fascia is removed the muscles connected with the penis and urethra will be exposed; these are, in the middle line, the Accelerator urinse; on each side, the Erector penis; and behind, the Transversus perinsei. The Accelerator urirup (Ejaculator seminis, or bulbo-cavernosus) is placed in the middle line of the perinreum, immediately in front of the anus. It consists of two symmetrical halves, united along the median line by a tendinous raphe. It arises 442-—The Perina?um. The Integument and Superficial Layer of Superficial Fascia reflected. from the central tendon of the perinneum, and from the median raphe in front. From this point its fibres diverge like the plumes of a pen; the most posterior form a thin layer1, which are lost on the anterior surface of the triangular ligament; the middle fibres encircle the bulb and adjacent parts of the corpus spongiosum, and join with the fibres of the opposite side, on the upper1 part of the corpus spongiosum, in a strong aponeurosis; the anterior fibres, the longest and most distinct, spread out over the sides of the corpus cavernosum, to be inserted partly into that body, anterior to the Erector penis, occasionally extending to the os pubis; partly terminating in a tendinous expansion, which covers the dorsal vessels of the penis. The latter- fibres are best seen by dividing the muscle longitudinally, and dissecting it outwards from the sur- face of the urethra. Action.—This muscle serves to empty the canal of the urethra, after the bladder has expelled its contents ; during the greater- part of the act of micturition its fibres are relaxed, and it only comes into action at the end of the process. The middle 3E