46 THE SKELETON. of the opening of the antrum is a deep groove, converted into a canal by the lachry- mal and inferior turbinated bones, which is coated with mucous membrane, and called the lachrymal or nasal duct. More anteriorly is a well-marked rough ridge, the inferior turbinated crest, for articulation with the inferior turbinated bone. The 46.—Left Superior Maxillary Bone. Inner Surface. concavity above this ridge forms part of the middle meatus of the nose; whilst that below it forms part of the inferior meatus. The inferior division of this surface concave, rough and uneven, and perforated by numerous small foramina for the passage of nutrient vessels. The Antrum of Highmore, or Maxillary Sinus, is a large triangular-shaped cavity, hollowed out of the body of the maxillary bone ; its apex, directed outwards, is formed by the malar process; its base, by the outer wall of the nose. Its walls are everywhere exceedingly thin, its roof being formed by the orbital plate, its floor by the alveolar process, its anterior wall by the facial, and its posterior by the zygo- matic surface. Its inner wall, or base, presents, in the disarticulated bone, a large irregular aperture, which communicates with the nasal fossa. The margins of this aperture are thin and. lagged, and the aperture itself is much contracted by i(> articulation with the ethmoid above, the inferior turbinated below, and the palate bone behind.* In the articulated skull, this cavity communicates with the middle meatus of the nose generally by two small apertures left between the above-men- tioned bones. In the recent state, usually only one small opening exists, near the upper part of the cavity, sufficiently large to admit the end of a probe, the other being closed by the lining membrane of the sinus. Crossing the cavity of the antrum, are often seen several projecting lamina? of bone, similar to those seen in the sinuses of the cranium ; and on its posterior wall are the posterior dental canals, transmitting the posterior dental vessels and nerves to the teeth. Projecting into the floor are several conical processes, corresponding to the roots of the first and second molar teeth ;f in some cases the floor is per- forated by the teeth in this situation. It is from the extreme thinness of the walls * In some cases, at any rate, the lachrymal bone encroaches slightly on the anterior superior portion of the opening, and assists in forming the inner wall of the antrum. t The number of teeth whose fangs are in reLation with the floor of the antrum is vari- able. The antrum ' ma}' extend so as to he in relation to all the teeth of the true maxilla, from the canine to the dens sapienlue'—See Mr. Salter on Abscess of the Antrum, in a System of Surgery, edited by T. Holmes, 2nd edit. vol. iv. p. 356.