298 MUSCLES AND FASCIAE. Besides these, there a;e numerous smaller septa, separating the individual muscles, and enclosing each in a distinct sheath. At the upper and inner part of the thigh, a little below Poupart's ligament, a large oval-shaped aperture is observed after the superficial fascia has been cleared off: it transmits the internal saphenous vein, and other smaller vessels, and is termed the saphenous opening. In order more correctly to consider the mode of formation of this aperture, the fascia lata is described as consisting, in this part of the thigh, of two portions, an iliac por- tion, and a pubic portion. The iliac portion is all that part of the fascia lata on the cuter side of the saphenous opening. It is attached, externally, to the crest of the ilium, and its anterior superior spine, to the whole length of Poupart's ligament, as far internally as the spine of the pubes, and to the pectineal line in conjunction with Gimbernat's ligament. From the spine of the pubes, it is reflected downwards and outwards, forming an arched margin, the superior cornu, or outer boundary of the saphenous opening ; this margin overlies, and is adherent to the anterior layer of the sheath of the femoral vessels : to its edge is attached the cribriform fascia, and, below, it is continuous with the pubic portion of the fascia lata. The pulic portion is situated at the inner side of the saphenous opening; at the lower margin of this aperture it is continuous with the iliac portion; traced upwards, it is seen to cover the surface of the Pectineus muscle, and passing behind the sheath of the femoral vessels, to which it is closely united, is con- tinuous with the sheath of the Psoas and Iliacus muscles, and is finally lost in the fibrous capsule of the hip-joint. This fascia is attached above to the pectineal line in front of the insertion of the aponeurosis of the external oblique, and internally to the margin of the pubic arch. From this description it may be observed, that the iliac portion of the fascia lata passes in front of the femoral vessels, and the pubic portion behind them, so that an apparent aperture exists between the two, through which the internal saphenous joins the femoral vein.* The fascia should now he removed from the surface of the muscles. This may he effected hy pinching it up between the forceps, dividing it, and separating it from each muscle in tbe course of its fibres. I The Tensor Vaginas Femoris arises from the ajitejior part of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium, and from the outer surface of the anterior superior spinous process, between the Gluteus medius and Sartorius. It is inserted into the tksciajata about 'one-fourth down the outer side of the thigh. From the point of insertion the fascia is continued downwards to the head of the tibia as a thickened band, the iiio- tibial band. Relations. By its superficial surface, with the fascia lata and the integument. By its deep surface, with the Gluteus medius, Rectus femoris, Vastus externus, and the ascending branches of the external circumflex artery. By its anterior border, with the Sartorius, from which it is separated below by a triangular space, in which is seen the Rectus femoris. By its posterior border, with the Gluteus medius. The Sartorius, the longest muscle in the body, is flat, narrow, and riband-like : i it arises by tendinous fibres from the anterior superior spinous process of the I ilium and the upper half of the notch below it, passes obliquely across the upper and anterior part of the thigh, from the outer to the inner side of the limb, then descends vertically, as far as the inner side of the knee, passing behind the inner condyle of the femur, and terminates in a tendon, which, curving obliquely for- wards, expands into a broad aponeurosis, inserted into the upper, part of the inner surface of the shaft of the tibia, nearly as far forwards as the crest. This expan- sion is inserted behind-vthe attachment of the Gracilis and Semitendinosus, but sends a process over these tendons, to be inserted in front of them. An offset is derived from the upper margin of this aponeurosis, which blends with the fibrous capsule of the knee-joint, and another, given off from its lower border, blends with the fascia on the inner side of the leg. The relations of this muscle to * These parts will be again more particularly described with the anatomy of Hernia.