THE SKELETON. $4 Structure. The squamous portion is like that of the other cranial bones, the mastoid portion cellular, ami the petrous jiortion dense ami hard; Dri'lojjiiienl (fig. 33). The temporal bone is developed by four centres, exclusive of those for the internal ear and the ossieula, viz. :—one for the squmious portion including the zy- goma, one for the petrous and mastoid 33.—Development of the Temporal Bone, parts, one for the styloid, and one for By Four Centres. the auditory process (tyuqianic Ixmc). .^^^^ The first traces of the development of . this Ikjiio appear in the villainous iKir- 1 forSfmutant Jr* . •• \ r 1 1 1 /')iruamou.i\ tion, alxtut the time when osseous pan^n ' f\ matter is dtp(sited in the vertebra.*; the auditory process succeeds next; it consists of a curved piece of Ikjuc, forming about three-fourths of a cir- cle, the deficiency l>eing above ; it is grooved along its concave surface for the attachment of the membrana tympani, and Incomes united by its extremities to the squamous portion during the last months of intra- uterine life. The petrous and mastoid portions then l>ecomo ossified, and lastly the styloid process, winch re- mains separate a considerable period, and in some skulls is never united to the rest of the bone. At birth, the tem- poral bone, excluding the styloid process, is formed of tlneo pieces—the squamous and zygomatic, the petrous and mastoid, and the auditory. The auditory process joins with the squamous about the time of birth. The |>ctrous and mastoid join with the squamous during the first year, and the styloid process l>ecomes united between the second and third years. The subsequent changes in this Kmc aiv, that the auditory process extends outwards, so as to form the meatus auditorius; the glenoid fossa Incomes deeper; and the mastoid part, which at an early period of life is quite fiat, enlarges from the development of the cellular cavities in its interior. Articulations. With five bones—occipital, parietal, sphenoid, inferior maxillary, and malar. At Inch im nt <>/ Mn.ivlx. To the squamous portion, the Temporal ; to the zygoma, the Alasseter; to the mastoid portion, the Occipito-fiontalis, Sterno-mastoid. Splenitis capitis, Trachelo-inastoid, Digastrirus, and Ketrahens aurem ; to the styloid process, thi! Stylo-pharyngeus, Stylo hyoideus, and St vlo-glossus; and to the petrous [mrtion, the Levator palati, Tensor tympani, Tensor palati, and Stapedius. Tin: Sphenoid Rone. The Sphenoid bone (t(/>;/c, a vuli/r) is situated at the anterior part of the base of the skull, articulating with all the other cranial l>ones, which it hinds (irmly and solidly together. In its form it somewhat resembles a bat. with its wings extended; and is divided into a central jKirtion or U) ly, two greater and two lesser wings extending outwards on each side of the body; and two processes, the pterygoid processes, which project from it U'low. The Ho tij is of large size, cuboid in form, and hollowed out in its interior so as to form a mere shell of hone. It presents for examination j'nur surfaces- a superior, an inferior, an anterior, and a posterior. The sf/prrior .lur/'af (tig. 34). In front is seen a prominent Spine, the ethmoidal spine, for articulation with the ethmoid, Whiud this a smooth sur-