DEVELOPMENT OF ALIMENTARY CANAL. cxlix vertebral column in the middle, and forms a curve attached to that column by the mesentery. A portion of the intestine above this mesentery dilates into the stomach, which gradually also acquires a mesentery of its own; I the rest remains attached to the spine, and forms the duodenum. The curve of the intestine appears as it were drawn out from the body by its attachment to the vitelline duct, and lies external to the parietes, and in the umbilical cord, until the end of the third month, when it passes back again into the abdomen. While still forming a portion of the cord, the intestine begins to be distinguished into large and small: for the anterior or upper part, corresponding to the small intestine, begins to assume a convoluted arrangement about the eighth week; whilst the lower part, which had been posterior, passes to the front and right side of the other, and becomes dilated at a short distance from the insertion of the vitelline duct, to form the rudiment of the caecum. When the intestine lies wholly Fiet. XOIX.—Early form of the alimentary canal (from Kolliker after Bischoff). A B In A a front view, and in n an antero-posterior section, are represented, a. Four pharyngeal or visceral plates 6 The pharynx, c, c. The commencing lungs, d. The stomach. /,/. The diverticula connected with the formation' of the liver, g. The yolk-sac into which the middle intestinal groove opens, h. The posterior part of the intestine. in the belly, the curve of the large intestine begins rapidly to form • but the caecum lies for some time in the middle line, and the ascending colon is not fully formed till the sixth month. The source of each layer of the intestine, and the closure of the omphalo- mesenteric or vitelline duct, have been spoken of above, pp. cxviii cxxiii. The li ver appears after the Wolffian bodies, about the third week in the form of two depressions formed by the epithelial and fibro-intestinal layers of the blastodermic membrane, and projecting from the intestine at the part which afterwards forms the duodenum. These depressions are developed into the right and left lobes. They grow very rapidly around the omphalo- mesenteric vein, from which they receive the branches enumerated on p. cxlvi, and about the third month the liver almost fills the abdominal cavity. From this period the relative development of the liver is less active, more especially that of the left lobe, which now becomes smaller than the right ;