MALE GENERATIVE OKGANS. 746 The nerves are the spermatic plexus from the sympathetic. This plexus is derived from the renal and aortic plexuses, joined by filaments from the hypogastric plexus which accompany the artery of the vas deferens. 430.—The Testis in situ, the Tunica Vaginalis having been laid open. -f Cord Testes. The testes are suspended in the scrotum by the spermatic cords. Each gland is of an oval form, compressed laterally and behind and having an oblique position in the scrotum ; the upper extremity being directed forwards and a little outwards; the lower, backwards and a little inwards j the anterior convex border looks forwards and downwards, the posterior or straight border, to which the cord is attached, backwards and upwards. The anterior and lateral surfaces, as well as both extremities of the organ, are convex, free, smooth, and invested by the tunica vaginalis. The posterior border, to which the cord is attached, receives only a partial investment from that mem- brane. Lying upon the outer edge of this border is a long, narrow, flattened body, named, from its relation to the testis, the epididymis (Sidvfio^, testis). It consists of a central portion, or body, an upper enlarged extremity, the globus major, or head ; and a lower pointed extremity, the tail, or globus minor. The globus major is inti- mately connected with the upper end of the testicle by means of its efferent ducts ; and the globus minor is connected with its lower end by cellular tissue, and a reflec- tion of the tunica vaginalis. The outer surface and upper and lower ends of the epididymis are free and covered by serous membrane; the body is also completely invested by it, excepting along its posterior border, and connected to the back of the testis by a fold of the serous membrane. Attached to the upper end of the testis, or to the epididymis, are one or more small pedunculated bodies. One of them is pretty constantly found between the globus major of the epididymis and the testicle, and is believed to be the remains of the upper extremity of the Mullerian duct (page civ). They are termed the Hydatids of Morgagni. When the testicle is removed from the body the position of the vas defe- rens, on its posterior and inner side, marks the side to which the gland has belonged. Size and weight. The average dimensions of this gland are from one and a half to two inches in length, one inch in breadth, and an inch and a quarter in the antero- posterior diameter ; and the weight varies from six to eight drachms, the left testicle being a little the larger. The testis is invested by three tunics, the tunica vaginalis, tunica albuginea, and tunica vasculosa. The Tunica Vaginalis is the serous covering of the testis. It is a pouch of serous membrane, derived from the peritoneum during the descent of the testis in the foetus, from the abdomen into the scrotum. After its descent, that portion of the pouch which extends from the internal ring to near the upper part of the gland becomes obliterated, the lower portion remaining as a shut sac, which invests the outer surface of the testis, and is reflected on the internal surface of the scrotum; hence it may be described as consisting of a visceral and parietal portion. The visceral portion (tunica vaginalis propria} covers the outer surface of the