VEINS. 443 form the vena cava. Iu these cases, the two common iliacs are connected by a small com- municating branch at the spot where they are usually united.* The Inferiok Vena Cava returns to the heart the blood from all the parts below the Diaphragm. It is formed by the junction of the two common iliac veins on the right side of the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebra. It passes upwards along the front of the spine, on the right side of the aorta, and having reached the under surface of the liver, is contained in a groove in its posterior border. It then perforates the central tendon of the Diaphragm, enters the pericardium, where it is covered by its serous layer, and terminates in the lower and back part of the right auricle. At its termination in the auricle, it is provided with a valve, the Eustachian, which is of large size during fetal life. Relations. In front, from below upwards, with the mesentery, transverse por- tion of the duodenum, the pancreas, portal vein, and the posterior border of the liver, which partly and occasionally completely surrounds it; behind, with the vertebral column, the right crus of the Diaphragm, the right renal and lumbar arteries; on the left side, with the aorta. It receives in its course the following branches: Lumbar. Suprarenal. Right Spermatic. Phrenic. Renal. Hepatic. Peculiarities. In Position. This vessel is sometimes placed on the left side of the aorta, as high as the left renal vein, after receiving which, it crosses over to its usual position on the right side; or it may be placed altogether on the left side of the aorta, as far upwards as its termination in the heart: in such cases, the abdominal and thoracic viscera, together with the great vessels, are all transposed. Point, of Termination. Occasionally, the inferior vena cava joins the right azygos vein, which is then of large size. In such cases, the superior cava receives the whole of the blood from the body before transmitting it to the right auricle, except the blood from the hepatic veins, which passes directly into the right auricle. The lumbar veins, three or four in number on each side, collect the blood by dorsal branches from the muscles and integument of the loins, and by abdominal branches from the walls of the abdomen, where they communicate with the epigastric veins. At the spine, they receive branches from the spinal plexuses, and then pass forwards, round the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae beneath the Psoas magnus, and terminate at the back part of the inferior cava. The left lumbar veins are longer than the right, and pass behind the aorta. The lumbar veins commu- nicate with each other by branches which pass in front of the transverse processes. Usually, two or more of these veins unite to form a single trunk, the ascending lumbar, which forms the most frequent origin of the corresponding vena azygos, and serves to connect the common iliac, ilio-lumbar, lumbar, and azygos veins of the cori'esponding side of the body. The spermatic veins emerge from the back of the testis, and receive branches from the epididymis; they form a branched and convoluted plexus, called the spermatic plexus (plexus pampiniformis), below the abdominal ring : the vessels composing this plexus are very numerous, and ascend along the cord in front of the vas deferens ; having entered the abdomen through the inguinal canal, they coalesce to form two branches, which ascend on the Psoas muscle, behind the peritoneum, lying one on each side of the spermatic artery, and unite to form a single vessel, which opens on the right side into the inferior vena cava, at an acute angle, on the left side into the left renal vein, at a right angle. The spermatic veins are pro- vided with valves.f The left spermatic vein passes behind the sigmoid flexure * See two cases which have been described by Mr. "Walsham in the St. Bartholomews Hospital Reports, vols. xvi. and xvii. t Eivington has pointed out that a valve is usually found at the orifices of both the right and left spermatic veins. When no valves exist at the opening of the left spermatic vein into the left renal vein, valves are generally present in the renal vein within a quarter of an