6o6 ORGANS OF SENSE. membrane. This part of the canal is rendered extremely movable by two or three deep fissures (incisurce Santorini), which extend through the cartilage in a vertical direction. The osseous portion is about three quarters of an inch in length, and narrower than the cartilaginous portion. It is directed inwards and a little forwards, forming a slight curve in its course, the convexity of which is upwards and backwards. Its inner end, which communicates, in the dry bone, with the cavity of the tympanum, is smaller than the outer, and sloped, the anterior wall projecting beyond the pos- terior about two lines ; it is marked, except at its upper part, by a narrow groove for the insertion of the membrana tympani. Its outer end is dilated, and rough, in the greater part of its circumference, for the attachment of the cartilage of the pinna. Its vertical transverse section is oval, the greatest diameter being from above down- wards. The front and lower parts of this canal are formed by a curved plate of bone, which, in the fcetus, exists as a separate ring (tympanic bone), incomplete at its upper part. The skin lining the meatus is very thin, adheres closely to the cartilaginous and osseous portions of the tube, and covers the surface of the membrana tympani, forni- 332.—A Front View of the Organ of Hearing. Eight Side. ing its outer layer. After maceration, the thin pouch of epidermis, when withdrawn, preserves the form of the meatus. The skin near its orifice is furnished with hairs and sebaceous glands. In the thick subcutaneous tissue of the cartilaginous part of the meatus are numerous ceruminous glands, which secrete the ear-wax : their ducts open on the surface of the skin. The arteries supplying the meatus are branches from the posterior auricular, internal maxillary, and temporal. The nerves are chiefly derived from the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior maxillary nerve. Middle Eae, or Tympanum. The middle ear, or tympanum, is an irregular cavity, compressed from without inwards, and situated within the petrous bone. It is placed above the jugular fossa, the carotid canal lying in front, the mastoid cells behind, the meatus auditorius ex- ternally, and the labyrinth internally. It is filled with air, and communicates with the pharynx by the Eustachian tube. The tympanum is traversed by a chain of movable bones, which connect the membrana tympani with the labyrinth, and serve to convey the vibrations comnmnicated to the membrana tympani across the cavity of the tympanum to the internal ear.