611 TYMPANUM. The Laxator tympani major (Sommerring) arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid bone, and from the cartilaginous portion of the Eustachian tube, and passing backwards through the Glaserian fissure, is inserted into the neck of the malleus, just above the processus gracilis. It is supplied by the tympanic branch of the facial. The Laxator tympani minor (Sommerring) arises from the upper and back part of the external meatus, passes forwards and inwards between the middle and inner layers of the membrana tympani, and is inserted into the handle of the malleus, and processus brevis. The Laxator tympani major is by some anatomists believed to be ligamentous and not muscular, and there seems little doubt that the structure described under the name of Laxator tympani minor is a ligament. The Stapedius arises from the sides of a conical cavity hollowed out of the interior of the pyramid: its tendon emerges from the orifice at the apex of the pyramid, and passing forwards, is inserted into the neck of the stapes. Its surface is aponeurotic, its interior fleshy; and its tendon occasionally contains a slender bony spine, which is constant in some mammalia. It is supplied by a filament from the facial nerve. Actions. The Tensor tympani draws the membrana tympani inwards, and thus heightens its tension. The Laxator tympani draws the malleus outwards, and thus the tympanic membrane, especially at its fore part, is relaxed. The Stapedius draws the head of the stapes backwards, and thus causes the base of the bone to rotate on a vertical axis drawn through its own centre : in doing this the back part of the base would be pressed inwards towards the vestibule, while the fore part would be drawn from it. It probably compresses the contents of the vestibule. The mucous membrane of the tympanum is thin, slightly vascular, and continuous with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, through the Eustachian tube. It invests the ossicula, and the muscles and nerves contained in the tympanic cavity; forms the internal layer of the membrana tympani; covers the foramen rotundum ; and is reflected into the mastoid cells, which it lines throughout. In the tympanum and mastoid cells this membrane is pale, thin, slightly vascular, and covered with ciliated epithelium. In the osseous portion of the Eustachian tube the membrane is thin; but in the cartilaginous portion it is very thick, highly vascular, covered with laminar ciliated epithelium, and provided with numerous mucous glands. The arteries supplying the tympanum are five in number. Two of them are larger than the rest, viz., the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, which supplies the membrana tympani; and the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, which supplies the back part of the tympanum and mastoid cells. The smaller branches are—the petrosal branch of the middle meningeal, which enters through the hiatus Fallopii: a branch from the ascending pharyngeal which passes up the Eustachian tube, and a branch from the internal carotid, given off in the carotid canal, and per- forating the thin anterior wall of the tympanum. The veins of the tympanum terminate in the middle meningeal and pharyngeal veins, and, through these, in the internal jugular. The nerves of the tympanum may be divided into—i. Those supplying the muscles ; 2. Those distributed to the lining membrane; 3. Branches communicating with other nerves. Nerves to muscles. The Tensor tympani is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion ; the Laxator tympani, and the Stapedius, by a filament from the facial (Sommerring). The nerves distributed to the lining membrane are derived from the tympanic plexus. The communications which take place in the tympanum are between the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal with the sympathetic and with filaments derived from the intumescentia gangliformis of the facial. The tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson's nerve) enters the tympanum by an aperture in its floor, close to the inner wall, and ascends on to the R R 2