cl CKXEIIAL ANATOMY. but the liver remains up to the end of foetal life relatively larger than in the adult. The gall-bladder appears about the second month, and bile is detected in the intestine in the third month. The pancreas is also an early formation, being far advanced in the second month. It, as well as the other salivary glands, which appear about the same period, originates in a projection from the epithelial layer, which afterwards forms a cavity, from the ramifications of which the lobules of the gland arc f< armed. In the development both of the liver and pancreas it seems to be admitted that the epithelial lining of the duct-passages is furnished by the hypoblast, and the vessels by the mesoblast; but authorities differ as to the mode of formation of the parenchyma (cellular tissue, &c), whether this is entirely mesoblastic, or is contributed by both membranes. The spleen is regarded as formed entirely from the mesoblast, proceeding, according to Midler (Strieker's ' Handbook,' vol. L), in all Vertebrata from a segment of the peritoneum. Development of the Respiratory Organs.—The lungs appear somewhat later than the liver. They are developed from a small cul-de-sac, which is formed on either side as a projection from the epithelial and fibrous laminae of the intestine. During the fourth week these depressions are found on either side, opening freely into the pharynx, and from the original pouches other secondary pouches are given off, so that by the eighth w eek the form of the lobes of the lungs may be made out. The two primary pouches have a common pedicle of communication with the pharynx. This is developed into the trachea (fig. XCVI. b.), the cartilaginous rings of which are perceptible about the seventh week. The parts which after- wards form the larynx are recognised as early as the sixth week, viz.: a projection on either side of the pharyngeal opening, the rudiment of the arytenoid cartilages, and a transverse elevation from the third pharyngeal arch, which afterwards becomes the epiglottis: the vocal cords and ventricles of the larynx are seen about the fourth month. The traces of the diaphragm appear early, in the form of a fine membrane, separating the lungs from the Wolffian bodies, the stomach and liver. As the dia- phragm extends forwards from the vertebral column, with the muscular plates of which its development is probably connected, it separates the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity into two parts, a thoracic and abdominal. The membrane which lines this common cavity lias been traced, above, as derived from the splanchnopleure, with an epithelial lining of hypoblast. Development of the Genito-urinary Organs.—The internal genito-urinary organs appear to be entirely of mesoblastic origin, and perhaps the easiest way of rendering their formation intelligible is to commence with the de- scription of the Wolffian body. The Wolffian body, or primordial kidney, is perceptible about the third week, forming a mass of cells which soon give rise to a hollow organ, situated on either side of the primitive vertebra', and extending from the heart to the lower end of the embryo, terminating above in a cul-de-sac and opening below into the urogenital .sinus. The structure of the Wolffian