THE OVARIES. 759 dilatation, and is covered by columnar ciliated epithelium. This form of epithelium is also found on the inner and outer surfaces of the fimbriae. 'The Ovaries (testes muliebres, Galen) arel analogous to the testes in the male. They are oval-shaped bodies, of an elongated form, flattened from above downwards, situated one on each side of the uterus, in the posterior part of the broad ligament behind and below the Fallopian tubes. Each ovary is connected, by its anterior margin, to the broad ligaments; by its inner extremity to the uterus by a proper ligament, the ligament of the ovary ; and by its outer end to the fimbriated extremity of the Fallopian tube by a short ligamentous cord. The ovaries are of a whitish colour, and pr esent either a smooth or puckered uneven surface. They are each about an inch and a half in length, three-quarters of an inch in width, and about a third of an inch thick; and weigh from one to two drachms. The surfaces and posterior convex border are free, the anterior straight border being attached to the broad ligament. Professor His has described the position of the ovary with its long diameter almost vertical and the Fallopian tube as running along its upper extremity, and then taking a sudden turn downwards over the outer border of the ovary to below the level of its lower extremity. From this point the fimbriae are directed upwards, and 435-—The Uterus and its Appendages. Anterior View. Brittle pasted t/,rhrjh Osfiusn <.<t„l. the ovary rests upon them. From this description it would appear that the ripe ova, when liberated from the ovary, would drop at once into the tube. Structure.—The ovary consists of a number of Graafian vesicles, embedded in the meshes of a stroma or framework, and invested by a serous covering derived from the peritoneum. Serous covering.—Though the investing membrane of the ovary is derived from the peritoneum, it differs essentially from that structure, inasmuch as its epithelium consists of a single layer of columnar cells, instead of the flattened endothelial cells of other parts; this has been termed the germinal epithelium of Waldeyer, and gives to the surface of the ovary a dull grey aspect instead of the shining smoothness of serous membranes generally. Stroma.—The stroma is a peculiar soft tissue, abundantly supplied with blood- vessels, consisting for the most part of spindle-shaped cells, with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue. These cells have been regarded by some anatomists as unstriped muscle cells, which, indeed, they most resemble (His); by others as con- nective-tissue cells (Waldeyer, Henle, and Kblliker). On the surface of the organ this tissue is much condensed, and forms a layer composed of short connective-tissue fibres, with fusiform cells between them. This was formerly regarded as a distinct fibrous covering, and was termed the tunica albuginea, but is nothing more than a condensed layer of the stroma of the ovary. Graafian vesicles.—Upon making a section of an ovary, numerous round trans-