NERVOUS TISSUE. Ixxv system are, as we have seen, of hardly appreciable thickness ; while, on the other, some of the gelatinous fibres (especially those in the olfactory bulb) are said to be three or four times as thick as those of the cerebro-spinal nerves. Chemical Composition.—The following analysis, by Lassaigne, represents the relative proportion of the different constituents composing the grey and white matter of the brain :— Grey White Water 85-2 73-0 Albuminous matter . . . . . . . 7'5 9'9 Colourless fat . . . . f . ' . . ro 13-9 Red fat 37 °'9 Osmazome and lactates . . . . . . 1*4 10 Phosphates . .12 1-3 I OO'O IOO'O It appears from this analysis that the cerebral substance consists of albumen, dissolved in water, combined with fatty matters and salts. The fatty matters consist of cerebrin, neurin, and lecithin. The two latter were first described by Liebreich as a crystalline phosphuretted fat, which he termed protagon. It seems probable, however, that it is simply a mixture of neurin and lecithin. Cholesterine is also described as one of the chemical constituents of the nervous tissues, being found in conjunction with lecithin. The salts are the phosphates of potash, soda, lime, magnesia, and iron, sulphate of potash and chloride of sodium, with traces of silica. According to Vauquelin, the cord contains a larger proportion of fat than the brain; and, according to L'Heritier, the nerves contain more albumen and more soft fat than the brain. With regard to the constitution of the different portions of the nervous system, the cerebro-spinal axis is composed of the two above-described kinds of nervous structure, intermingled in various proportions, and having in the brain a very intricate arrangement, which can only be fully under- stood by a careful study of the details of its descriptive anatomy in the sequel. The grey or vesicular nervous matter is found partly on the sur- face of the brain, forming the convolutions of the cerebrum, which are in the most direct relation to the mental faculties, and the laminae of the cerebellum, the functions of which are still a matter of dispute. Again, grey matter is found in the interior of the brain, collected into large and distinct masses or ganglionic bodies, such as the corpus striatum, optic thalamus, and corpora quadrigemina ; the functions of which bodies, so far as they have been ascertained, have been found to be connected with some of the main organic endowments of the body, such as voluntary motion, sensation, sight. Finally, grey matter is found intermingled intimately with the white, and without definite arrangement, as in the corpora dentata of the medulla and cerebellum, or the grey matter in the Pons and the floor of the fourth ventricle. Such scattered masses of grey matter are, in many instances at any rate, connected to all appearance with the origin of particular nerves. In other situations their use is as yet unknown. The proper nervous matter, both in the brain and spinal cord, is traversed and supported by a network of fine connective tissue (see fig. XLVIL). This has been termed by Virchow the neuroglia, and is supposed