TEE URINARY ORGANS. 728 twigs for the nutrition of the surrounding tissues, and terminate in the arterial proprice renales, which enter the kidney proper in the columns of Bertini. Two of these pass to each pyramid of Malpighi and run along its sides for its entire length, giving off as they advance the afferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies in the columns. Having arrived at the bases of the pyramids, they make a bend in their course, so as to lie between the bases of the pyramids and the cortical arches, where they break up into two distinct sets of branches devoted to the supply of the re- maining portions of the kidney. The first set, the interlobular arteries (figs. 420, 421, b), are given off at right angles from the side of the arterise propria? renales looking towards the cortical substance, and passing directly outwards between the pyramids of Ferrein, supply the capsule, terminating in the stellate plexus of veins beneath that structure. In their outward course they support the Malpighian bodies by supplying them with efferent vessels, which, having pierced the capsule, end in the Malpighian tufts. From each 420.—Diagrammatical Sketch of 42 r —A portion of fig'. 420 enlarged. Kidney. ( The references are the same.) A a. Proper renal artery and vein, tbe former giving off the renal afferents, the latter receiving the renal efferents. B b. Interlobular artery and veiD, the latter commencing from the stellate veins, and receiving branches from the plexus around the tubuli contorti, tbe former giving off renal afferents. C. Straight tube, surrounded by tubuli contorti, with which it communicates, forming a pyramid of Ferrein, as more fully shown in fig. 403. D. Margin of medullary substance. E B K. Receiving tubes, cut off. F /. Aite- riola; et vense recta?, the latter arising from (G) the plexus at the medullary apex. tuft the corresponding renal efferent arises, which, having made its egress from the capsule near to the point where the efferent entered, anastomoses with other efferents from other tufts, and contributes to form a dense venous plexus around the urinary tubes adjacent. The second set from the arterise propria? renales are for the supply of the medullary pyramids, which they enter at their bases ; and passing through their substance straight to their apices, terminate in the venous plexuses found in that situation. They are called the arteriole?, recta; (figs. 420, 42 r, f). The Renal Veins arise from three sources—the veins beneath the capsule, the plexuses around the tubuli contorti in the cortical arches, and the plexuses situated at the apices of the pyramids of Malpighi. The veins beneath the capsule are stellate in arrangement, being found around the bases of the pyramids of Ferrein, and are derived from the terminations of the interlobular arteries. These join to form the vena? inferlobulares, which pass inwards between the pyramids of Ferrein, receive branches from the plexuses around the tubuli contorti, and, having arrived