liii BONE. loid cavity of the hip, and the glenoid cavity of the shoulder ; they serve to deepen the articular surface, and to jn'otect the edges of the hone. The stratiform fibro-cartilages are those which form a thin layer in the osseous grooves, through which the tendons of certain muscles glide. The yellow or reticular cartilages found in the human body are the epiglottis, cornicula laryngis, and the cartilaginous parts of the ear (auricle and Eustachian tube). In this variety the cartilage-cells lie in the meshes of a network of yellow elastic fibres, with a double outline, branching and anastomosing in all directions. The fibres resemble those of the yellow elastic fibrous tissue, both in appearance and in being unaffected by acetic acid, and according to Eollett their continuity with the elastic fibres of the neighbouring cellular tissue admits of being demonstrated. The distinguishing feature of cartilage as to its chemical composition is that it yields on boiling a substance called chondrine, very similar to gela- tine, but differing from it in not being precipitated by tannin. BONE. Structure and Physical Properties of Bone.—Bone is one of the hardest structures of the animal body ; it possesses also a certain degree of tough- ness and elasticity. Its colour, in a fresh state, is of a pinkish white externally, and deep red within. On examining a section of any bone, it is seen to be composed of two kinds of tissue, one of which is dense and compact in texture, like ivory; the other consisting of slender fibres and lamellae, which join to form a reticular structure; this, from its resem- blance to lattice-work, is called cancellous. The compact tissue is always placed on the exterior of a bone; the cancellous tissue is always internal. The relative quantity of these two kinds of tissue varies in different bones, and in different parts of the same bone, as strength or lightness is re- quisite. Close examination of the compact tissue shows it to be extremely porous, so that the difference in structure between it and the cancellous tissue depends merely upon the different amount of solid matter, and the size and number of the spaces in each ; the cavities being small in the compact tissue, and the solid matter between them abundant; whilst in the cancellous tissue the spaces are large, and the solid matter in smaller quantity. Bone during life is permeated by vessels, and is enclosed in a fibrous membrane, the periosteum, by means of which most of these vessels reach the hard tissue. If the periosteum be stripped from the surface of the living bone, small bleeding points are seen, which mark the entrance of the periosteal vessels ; and on section during life every part of the bone will be seen to exude blood, from the minute vessels which ramify in the Haversian canals. The interior of the bones of the limbs presents a cylindrical cavity filled with marrow, and lined by a highly vascular areolar structure, called the medullary membrane or internal periosteum, which, however, is rather the areolar envelope of the cells of the marrow than a definite membrane. The larger Haversian canals are also filled with marrow. The periosteum adheres to the surface of the bones in nearly every part, excepting at their cartilaginous extremities. Where strong tendons or liga-