6oS ORGANS OF SENSE. placed opposite the membrana tympani, and is connected with it by the ossicula auditus. The fenestra rotunda is an oval aperture placed at the bottom of a funnel-shaped depression, leading into the cochlea. It is situated below and rather behind the fenestra ovalis, from which it is separated by a rounded elevation, the promontory ; it is closed in the recent state by a membrane {membrana tympani secundaria, Scarpa). This membrane is concave towards the tympanum, convex towards the cochlea. It consists of three layers: the external, or mucous, derived from the mucous lining of the tympanum ; the internal, or serous, from the lining membrane of the cochlea; and an intermediate, or fibrous layer. The promontory is a rounded hollow prominence, formed by the projection out- wards of the first turn of the cochlea; it is placed between the fenestra, and is fur- rowed on its surface by three small grooves, which lodge branches of the tympanic plexus. The rounded eminence of the aquaiductus Fallopii, the prominence of the bony canal in which the portio dura is contained, traverses the inner wall of the tym- panum above the fenestra ovalis, and behind that opening curves nearly vertically downwards along the posterior wall. The pyramid is a conical eminence, situated immediately behind the fenestra ovalis, and in front of the vertical portion of the eminence above described; it is hollow in the interior, and contains the Stapedius muscle; its summit projects for- wards towards the fenestra ovalis, and presents a small aperture, which transmits the tendon of the muscle. The cavity in the pyramid is prolonged into a minute canal, which communicates with the aquseductus Fallopii, and transmits the nerve which supplies the Stapedius. The posterior wall of the tympanum is wider above than below, and presents for examination the Openings of the Mastoid cells. These consist of one large irregular aperture, and several smaller openings, situated at the upper part of the posterior Aval) ; they lead into canals, which com- municate with large irregular cavities contained in the interior of the mastoid process. These cavities vary considerably in number, size, and form ; they are lined by mucous membrane, continuous with that covering the cavity of the tympanum. The: anterior wall of the tympanum is wider above than below; it corresponds with the carotid canal, from which it is separated by a thin jdate of bone, perforated by the tympanic branch of the internal carotid. It presents for examination the Canal for the Tensor tympani. Orifice of the Eustachian Tube. The processus Cochleariformis. The orifice of the canal for the Tensor tympani, and the orifice of the Eustachian tube, are situated at the upper part of the anterior wall, being separated from each other by a thin, delicate, horizontal plate of bone, the processus cochleariformis. These canals run from the tympanum forwards, inwards, and a little downwards, to the retiring angle between the squamous and petrous portions of the temporal bone. The canal for the Tensor tympani is the superior and the smaller of the two; it is rounded, and lies beneath the upper surface of the petrous bone, close to the hiatus Fallopii. The tympanic end of this canal forms a conical eminence, which is pro- longed backwards into the cavity of the tympanum, and is perforated at its summit by an aperture, which transmits the tendon of the muscle contained in it. This eminence is sometimes called the anterior pyramid. The canal contains the Tensor tympani muscle. The Eustachian tube is the channel through which the tympanum communicates with the pharynx. Its length is from an inch and a half to two inches, and its direction downwrards, forwards, and inwards. It is formed partly of bone, partly of cartilage and fibrous tissue.