447 ILIAC VEINS. artery; but as it passes upwards, gradually inclines behind it. On the left side, it lies altogether on the inner side of the artery. It receives, immediately above Poupart's ligament, the epigastric and circumflex iliac veins. It has no valves. The Internal Iliac Vein is formed by the venae comites of the brunches of the internal iliac artery, the umbilical arteries excepted. It receives the blood from the exterior of the pelvis by the gluteal, sciatic, internal pudic, and obturator' veins; and from the organs in the cavity of the pelvis by the hemorrhoidal and vesico-prostatic plexuses in the male, and the uterine and vaginal plexuses in the female. The vessels forming these plexuses are remarkable for their large size, their1 frequent anastomoses, and the number of valves which they contain. The internal iliac vein lies at first on the inner side and then behind the internal iliac artery, and terminates opposite the sacro-iliac ar ticulation, by uniting with the external iliac, to form the common iliac vein. This vessel has no valves. The hemorrhoidal plexus surrounds the lower end of the rectum, being formed by the superior hemorrhoidal veins (branches of the inferior mesenteric), and the middle and inferior hemorrhoidal, which ter minate irr the internal iliac. The portal and general venous systems have a free communication by means of the branches composing this plexus. The vesico-prostatic plexus surrounds the neck and base of the bladder and prostate gland. It communicates with the hemorrhoidal plexus behind, and receives the dorsal vein of the penis, which enters the pelvis beneath the sub-pubic ligament. This plexus is supported upon the sides of the bladder by a reflection of the pelvic fascia. The veins composing it are very liable to become varicose, and often contain hard earthy concretions, called phleboUths. The dorsal vein of the penis is a vessel of large size, which returns the blood from the body of that organ. At first it consists of two branches, which are contained in the groove on the dorsum of the penis, and it receives veins from the glans, the corpus spongiosum, and numerous superficial veins; these unite near the root of the penis into a single trunk, which passes through the suspensory ligament of the penis, pierces the triangular ligament beneath the pubic arch, and divides into two branches, which enter the prostatic plexus. The vaginal plexus surrounds the mucous membrane, being especially developed at the orifice of the vagina ; it communicates with the vesical plexus in front, and with the hemorrhoidal plexus behind. The uterine pilexus is situated along the sides and superior angles of the uterus between the layer's of the broad ligament, receiving large venous canals (the uterine sinuses) from the substance of the uterus. The veins composing this plexus anasto- mose frequently with each other and with the ovarian veins. They are not tor tuous like the arteries. The Common Iliac Veins are formed by the union of the external and internal iliac veins in front of the sacro-iliac articulation ; passing obliquely upwar ds towards the right side, they terminate upon the intervertebral substance between the fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, where the veins of the two sides unite at an acute angle to form the inferior1 vena cava. The right common iliac is shorter than the left, nearly vertical in its direction, and ascends behind and then to the outer side of its corresponding artery. The left common iliac, longer and more oblique in its course, is at first situated on the inner side of the corresponding artery, and then behind the right common iliac. Each common iliac receives the iliolumbar and sometiurcs the lateral sacral veins. The left receives, in addition, the middle sacral vein. No valves are found in these veins. The middle sacral vein accompanies its corresponding artery along the front of the sacrum, and terminates in the left common iliac vein ; occasionally in the commence- ment of the infer ior vena cava. Peculiarities. The left common iliac vein, instead of joining with the right in its usual position, occasionally ascends on the left side of the aorta as high as the kidney, where, after- receiving the left renal vein, it crosses over the aorta, and then joins with the right vein to