604 ORGANS OF SENSE. In front of the concha, and projecting backwards over the meatus, is a small pointed eminence, the tragus; so called from its being generally covered on its under surface, with a tuft of hair, resembling a goat's beard. Opposite the tragus, and separated from it by a deep notch (incisura intertragica), is a small tubercle, the antitragus. Below this is the lobule, composed of tough areolar and adipose tissue, wanting the firmness and elasticity of the rest of the pinna. Structure of the pinna. The pinna is composed of a thin plate of yellow fibro- cartilage, covered with integument, and connected to the surrounding parts by liga- ments, and a few muscular fibres. The integument is thin, closely adherent to the cartilage, and furnished with sebaceous glands, which are most numerous in the concha and scaphoid fossa. The cartilage of the pinna consists of one single piece; it gives form to this part of the ear, and upon its surface are found all the eminences and depressions above described. It does not enter into the construction of all parts of the auricle; thus it does not form a constituent part of the lobule; it is deficient, also, between the tragus and beginning of the helix, the notch between them being filled up by dense fibrous tissue. At the front part of the pinna, where the helix bends upwards, is a small projection of cartilage, called the process of the helix. The cartilage of the pinna pre- sents several intervals or fissures in its sub- stance, which partially separate the different 33°-—The Pinna, or Auricle, parts. The fissure of the helix is a short vertical slit, situated at the fore part of the pinna, immediately behind a small conical projection of cartilage, opposite the first curve of the helix (process of the helix). Another fissure, the fissure of the tragus, is seen upon the anterior surface of the tragus. The antihelix is divided below, by a deep fissure, into two parts : one part terminates by a pointed, tail-like extremity [processus caudatus); the other is continuous with the antitragus. The cartilage of the pinna is very pliable, elastic, of a yellowish colour, and belongs to that form of cartilage which is known under the name of yellow fibro- cartilage. The ligaments of the pinna consist of two sets:—i. Those connecting it to the side of the head. 2. Those connecting the various parts of its cartilage together. The former, the most important, are two in number, anterior and posterior. The anterior ligament extends from the process of the helix to the root of the zygoma. The posterior ligament passes from the posterior surface of the concha to the outer surface of the mastoid process of the temporal bone. A few fibres connect the tragus to the root of the zygoma. The ligaments connecting the various parts of the cartilage together are also two in number. Of these, one is a strong fibrous band, stretching across from the tragus to the commencement of the helix, completing the meatus in front, and partly encircling the boundary of the concha; the other extends between the concha and the processus caudatus. The muscles of the pinna (fig. 331), like the ligaments, consist of two sets:— r. Those which connect it with the side of the head, moving the pinna as a whole, viz., the Attollens, Attrahens, and Eetrahens aurem (p. 209); and 2. the proper muscles of the pinna, which extend from one part of the auricle to another. These are, the Helicis major. Helicis minor.