ORGANS OF SENSE. 5ยง4 Its anterior margin, thickest above, is connected from above downwards with the nasal bones, the front part of the two upper lateral cartilages, and the inner por tion of the two lower lateral cartilages. Its posterior margin is connected with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid; its inferior margin with the vomer and the palate processes of the superior maxillary bones. These various cartilages are connected to each other, and to the bones, by a tough fibrous membrane, the perichondrium, which allows the utmost facility of movement between them. The muscles of the nose are situated immediately beneath the integument: they are (on each side) the Pyramidalis nasi, the Levator labii superioris alseque nasi, the Dilatator naris, anterior and posterior, the Compressor nasi, the Compi'essor narium minor, and the Depressor alae nasi. They have been described above (p. 214). The integument covering the dorsum and sides of the nose is thin, and loosely connected with the subjacent parts ; but where it forms the tip, or lobe, and the ala? of the nose, it is thicker and more firmly adherent. It is furnished with a large number of sebaceous follicles, the orifices of which are usually very distinct. The mucous membrane, lining the interior of the nose, is continuous with the skin externally, and with that which lines the nasal fossa? within. The arteries of the nose are the lateralis nasi, from the facial, and the nasal artery of the septum, from the superior coronary, which supplies the alae and septum ; the sides and dorsum being supplied from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic and the infraorbital. The veins of the nose terminate in the facial and ophthalmic. The nerves of the nose are branches from the facial, infraorbital, and infratrochlear, and a filament from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic. Nasal Foss.e. The nasal fossa? are two irregular cavities situated in the middle of the face, and extending from before backwards. They operi in front by the two anterior nares, and terminate in the pharynx, behind, by the posterior nares. The boundaries of these cavities, and the openings which are connected with them, as they exist in the skeleton, have been already described (pp. 72-74). The mucous membrane lining the nasal fossa' is called the pituitary, from the nature of its secretion ; or Schneiderian, from Schneider, the first anatomist who showed that the secretion proceeded from the mucous membrane, and not, as was formerly imagined, from the brain. It is intimately adherent to the periosteum, or perichondrium over which it lies. It is continuous externally with the skin through the anterior nares, and with the mucous membrane of the pharynx, through the pos- terior nares. From the nasal fossa? its continuity may be traced with the conjunctiva, through the nasal duct and lachrymal canals ; with the lining membrane of the tympanum and mastoid cells, through the Eustachian tube ; and with the frontal, ethmoidal, and sphenoidal sinuses, and the antrum of Highmore, through the several openings in the meatuses. The mucous membrane is thickest, and most vascular, over the turbinated bones. It is also thick over the septum ; but, in the intervals between the spongy bones, and on the floor of the nasal fossa?, it is very thin. Where it lines the various sinuses and the antrum of Highmore, it is thin and pale. The epithelium differs in its character according to the functions of the part of the nose in which it is found. Near the orifice of the nostril where common sensa- tion is chiefly or alone required, the epithelium is of the ordinary pavement or scaly variety. In the rest of the cavity, below the distribution of the olfactory nerves, i.e. in the respiratory portion of the nasal cavity, the epithelium is columnar and ciliated. This is the case also in the sinuses of the nose. In the olfactory region, i.e. the region in which the terminal filaments from the olfactory bulb are distributed (see p. 507), the epithelial cells are columnar and non-ciliated : their free surface presents a sharp outline, and their deep extremity is prolonged into a process which runs in-