7i8 ORGANS OF VOICE AND RESPIRATION. interior thyroid, and sometimes an additional branch (thyroidea media, or ima) from the arteria iimominata, or the arch of the aorta, which ascends upon the front of the trachea. The arteries are remarkable for their large size and frequent anastomoses. The veins form a plexus on the surface of the gland, and on the front of the trachea, from which arise the superior, middle, and inferior thyroid veins ; the two former terminating in the internal jugular, the latter in the vena innominata. The lymphatics are numerous, of large size, and terminate in the thoracic and right lymphatic ducts. They are thus described by Frey :—' The whole envelope of the organ is covered by knotted trunks, which take their origin from a network of very complicated canals, situated in a deeper layer of the former. This latter network is formed around the secondary lobules of the gland by the reticular intercommunications of these canals (fig. 406,/). From the peripheral network formed of canals burrowing through the connective tissue of the capsule, lateral ramifications are given off which penetrate into the interior, and gradually enclose the primary lobes in complete rings, or more or less perfect arches (d, d). From these a few fine terminal passages with blind ends (e) are seen sinking in between the different vesicles. The nerves are derived from the pneumogastric,* and from the middle and inferior cervical ganglia of the sympathetic. Chemical Composition.—The thyroid gland consists of albumen, traces of gelatine, stearine, oleine, extractive matter, alkaline and earthy salts, and water. The salts are chloride of sodium, alkaline sulphates, phosphate of potash, lime, magnesia, and a trace of oxide of iron. Thymus Gland. The thymus gland presents much resemblance in structure to other glandular organs, and is another of the organs denominated ductless glands. The thymus gland is a temporary organ, attaining its full size at the end of the .Upper portion of the thymus of a foetal pig of 2" in length, showing the bud-like lobuli and glandular elements. 2. Cells of the thymus, mostly from a man. a. Free nuclei, b. Small cells, c. Larger, d. Larger, with oil-globules, from the OK. e,f. Cells completely filled with fat, at / without a nucleus, g, h. Concentric bodies, g. An encapsu- lated nucleated cell. h. A composite structure of a similar nature. second year, when it ceases to grow, and gradually dwindles, until at puberty it has almost disappeared. If examined when its growth 13 most active, it will be found to consist of two lateral lobes placed in close contact along the middle line, situated * Frey denies that the vagus supplies any of these nerves, deriviug them entirely from the sympathetic.