128 THE SKELETON. shaft of the bone by a continuation of the tendon of the Triceps muscle.* It serves to protect the front of the joint, and increases the leverage of the Quadriceps extensor by making it act at a greater angle. It presents an anterior and posterior surface, three borders, a base, and an apex. The anterior surface is convex, perforated by small apertures, for the passage of nutrient vessels, and marked by numerous rough longitudinal striae. This surface is covered, in the recent state, by an expansion from the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor, and separated from the integument by a bursa. It gives attachment below to the liga- mentum patella?. The posterior surface presents a smooth, oval-shaped, articular surface, covered with cartilage in the recent state, and divided into two facets by a vertical ridge, which descends from the superior towards the inferior angle of the bone. The ridge corresponds to the groove on the trochlear surface of the femur, and the two facets to the articular surfaces of the two condyles; the outer facet, for articulation with the outer condyle, being the broader and deeper. This character serves to indicate the side to which the bone belongs. Below the articular surface is a rough, convex, non-articular depression, the lower half of which gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae ; the upper- half being separated from the head of the tibia by adipose tissue. The superior and lateral borders give attachment to the tendon of the Quadriceps extensor; the superior border, to that portion of the tendon which is derived from the Rectus and Crureus muscles ; and the lateral borders, to the portion derived from the external and internal Vasti muscles. The base or superior border, is thick, directed upwards, and cut obliquely at the expense of its outer surface; it receives the attachment, as already mentioned, of part of the Quadriceps extensor tendon. The apex is pointed, and gives attachment to the ligamentum patellae. Structure. It consists of dense cancellous tissue, covered by a thin compact lamina. Development. By a single centre, which makes its appearance, according to Beclard, about the third year. In two instances, I have seen this bone cartilaginous throughout, at a much later period (six years). More rarely, the bone is deve- loped by two centres, placed side by side. Articulations. "With the two condyles of the femur. Attachment of Muscles. The Rectus, Crureus, Vastus internus, and Vastus externus. These muscles joined at their insertion constitute ' the Quadriceps extensor cruris. The. Tibia. (Figs. 109, 110.) The Tibia is situated at the front and inner side of the leg, and, excepting the femur, is the longest and largest bone in the skeleton. It is prismoid in form, expanded above, where it enters into the knee-joint, more slightly enlarged below. In the male, its direction is vertical, and parallel with the bone of the opposite side; but in the female it has a slight oblique direction downwards and outwards, * Professor Owen states, that, ' in certain bats, there is a development of a sesamoid bone in the biceps bracbii, which is the true homotype of the patella in the leg:,' regarding the olecranon as homologous, not with the patella, but with an extension of the upper end of the fibula above the knee-joint, which is met with in some animals. (On the Nature of Limbs, pp. 19, 24.) 107.—Right Patella Anterior Surface. 108.—Posterior surface.