357 OPHTHALMIC. Peculiarities. The lachrymal artery is sometimes derived from one of the anterior branches of the middle meningeal artery. The supraorbital artery, the largest branch of the ophthalmic, arises from that vessel above the optic nerve. Ascending so as to rise above all the muscles of the orbit, it passes forwards, with the frontal nerve, between the periosteum and Levator palpebrse; and passing through the supraorbital foramen, divides into a superficial and deep branch, which supply the muscles and integument of the forehead and pericranium, anastomosing with the temporal, the angular branch of the facial, and the artery of the opposite side. This artery in the orbit supplies the Superior rectus and the Levator palpebrse, sends a branch inwards, across the pulley of the Superior oblique muscle, to supply the parts at the inner canthus, and, at the supraorbital foramen, frequently transmits a branch to the diploe. The ethmoidal branches are two in number; posterior and anterior. The former, which is the smaller, passes through the posterior ethmoidal foramen, supplies the posterior ethmoidal cells, and, entering the cranium, gives off a meningeal branch, which supplies the adjacent dura mater, and nasal branches, which descend into the nose through apertures in the cribriform plate, anasto- mosing with branches of the spheno-palatine. The anterior ethmoidal artery accompanies the nasal nerve through the anterior ethmoidal foramen, supplies the anterior ethmoidal cells and frontal sinuses, and, entering the cranium, divides into a meningeal branch, which supplies the adjacent dura mater, and a nasal branch, which descends into the nose, through an aperture in the cribriform plate. The palpebral arteries, two in number, superior and inferior, arise from the ophthalmic, opposite the pulley of the Superior obliqrre muscle; they encircle the eyelids near their free margin, forming a superior and an inferior arch, which lie between the orbicularis muscle and tarsal cartilages; the superior palpebral inosculating at the outer angle of the orbit with the orbital branch of the temporal artery, the inferior palpebral with the orbital branch of the infraorbital artery, ax the inner side of the lid. From this anastomosis, a branch passes to the nasal duct, ramifying in its mucous membrane, as far as the inferior meatus. The frontal artery, one of the terminal branches of the ophthalmic, passes from the orbit at its inner angle, and ascending on the forehead, supplies the muscles, integument, and pericranium, anastomosing with the supraorbital artery. The nasal artery, the other terminal branch of the ophthalmic, emeiges from the orbit above the tendo oculi, and, after giving a branch to the lachrymal sac, divides into two, one of which anastomoses with the angular artery, the other branch, the dorsah\ nasi, runs along the dorsum of the nose, supplies its entire surface, and anastomoses with the artery of the opposite side. The ciliary arteries are divisible into three groups, the short, long, and anterior. The short ciliary arteries, from twelve to fifteen in number, arise from the ophthal- mic, or some of its branches ; they surround the optic nerve as they pass forwards to the posterior part of the eyeball, pierce the sclerotic coat around the entrance of the nerve, and supply the choroid coat and ciliary processes. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, also pierce the posterior part of the sclerotic, and run forwards, along each side of the eyeball, between the sclerotic and choroid, to the ciliary ligament, where they divide into two branches; these form an arterial circle around the circumference of the iris, from which numerous radiating branches pass forwards, in its substance, to its free margin, where they form a second arterial circle around its pupillary margin. The anterior ciliary arteries are derived from the muscular branches; they pierce the sclerotic a short distance from the cornea, and terminate in the great arterial circle of the iris. The arteria centralis retinas is one of the smallest branches of the ophthalmic artery. It arises near the optic foramen, pierces the optic nerve obliquely, and runs forwards, in the centre of its substance, to the retina, in which its branches are distributed as far forwards as the ciliary processes. In the human foetus, a small vessel passes forwards, through the vitreous humour, to the posterior surface of the capsule of the lens.