MALE GENERATIVE ORGANS. 74« and the length of each about sixteen feet; by Lauth, their number is estimated at 840, and their average length two feet and a quarter. Their diameter varies from o^0th to T-^oth of an inch. The tubuli are pale in colour in early life, but, in old age, they acquire a deep yellow tinge, from containing much fatty matter. They consist of a membrana propria, containing oval flattened nuclei; inside which are several layers of epithelial cells, the seminal cells. These may be divided into an outer layer, next the membrana propria, and two or more layers of inner cells. The former cells are more or less polyhedral in shape, uniform in size and contain an oval or spherical nucleus ; the latter cells, those comprising the inner layer, are spherical and more loosely connected together. Near the lumen of the tube these inner cells have undergone division, forming small epithelial cells, or spermatoblasts, which, by a series of changes, become converted into spermatozoa. In the young subject, the seminal cells present somewhat the appearance of an epithelial lining, and do not almost fill the tube, as in the adult testis. The tubules are enclosed in a delicate plexus of capillary vessels, and are held together by an intertubular connective tissue, which presents large interstitial spaces lined by endothelium, which are believed to be the rootlets of the lymphatic vessels of the testis. In the apices of the lobules, the tubuli become less convoluted, assume a nearly sti-aight course, and unite together to form from twenty to thirty larger ducts, of about ^th of an inch in diameter, and these, from their straight course, are called vasa recta. The vasa recta enter the fibrous tissue of the mediastinum, and pass upwards and backwards, forming, in their ascent, a close network of anastomosing tubes, with exceedingly thin parietes ; this constitutes the rete testis. At the upper end of the mediastinum, the vessels of the rete testis terminate in from twelve to fifteen or twenty ducts, the vasa efferentia : they perforate the tunica albuginea, and carry the seminal fluid from the testis to the epididymis. Their course is at first straight, they then become enlarged, and exceedingly convoluted, and form a series of coni- cal masses, the coni vasculosi, which, to- gether, constitute the globus major of the epididymis. Each cone consists of a single convoluted duct, from six to eight inches in length, the diameter of which gradually decreases from the testis to the epididymis. Opposite the bases of the cones, the efferent vessels open at narrow intervals into a single duct, which con- stitutes, by its complex convolutions, the body and globus minor of the epididymis. When the convolutions of this tube are unravelled, it measures upwards of twenty feet in length, and increases in breadth and thickness as it approaches the vas deferens. The convolutions are held together by fine areolar tissue, and by bands of fibrous tissue. A long narrow tube, the vasculum aberrans of Haller, is occasionally found connected with the lower part of the canal of the epididymis, or with the commencement of the vas deferens. It extends up into the cord for about two or three inches, where it ter- minates by a blind extremity, which is occasionally bifurcated. Its length varies from an inch and a half to fourteen inches, and sometimes it becomes dilated towards its extremity : more commonly, it retains the same diameter throughout. Its 43I-- to —Vertical section of the Testicle, show the arrangement of the Ducts,