5oS CRANIAL NERVES. connected with the taenia semicircularis, and the anterior termination of the gyrus forni- catus. It finally joins with the nerve of the opposite side, to form the optic commissure. The commissure or chiasma, somewhat quadrilateral in form, rests upon the optic groove of the sphenoid bone, being bounded, above, by the'lamina cinerea; behind, by the tuber cinereum; on either side by the anterior perforated space. "Within the commissure, the optic nerves of the two sides undergo a partial decussation. The fibres which form the inner margin of each tract are „ ,' „ ,,. _.. , „ , ,f 253.—(Jourse ot the Jnbres m continued across from one to the other side 01 the ^e q^c Commissure brain, and have no connection with the optic nerves. ^ These may be regarded as commissural fibres (inter- cerebral) between the thalami of opposite sides. Some fibres are continued across the anterior border of the chiasma, and connect the optic nerves of the two sides, having no relation with the optic tracts. They may be regarded as commissural fibres between the two retinae {inter-retinal fibres). The outer fibres of each tract are continued into the optic nerve of the same side. The central fibres of each tract are continued into the optic nerve of the opposite side, decussating in the commissure with similar fibres of the opposite tract.* The optic nerves arise from the fore part of the commissure, and, diverging from one another, become rounded in form and firm in texture, and are enclosed in a sheath derived from the arachnoid. As each nerve passes through the correspond- ing optic foramen, it receives a sheath from the dura mater; and as it enters the orbit this sheath subdivides into two layers, one of which becomes continuous with the periosteum of the orbit; the other forms a sheath for the nerve, and surrounds it as far as the sclerotic. The nerve passes through the cavity of the orbit, pierces the sclerotic and choroid coats at the back part of the eyeball, a little to the nasal side of its centre, and expands into the retina. Arnold describes a communication between the optic nerve in the orbit and the ascending branches of Meckel's ganglion. A small artery, the arteria centralis retinal, perforates the optic nerve a little behind the globe, and runs along its interior in a tubular canal of fibrous tissue. It supplies the inner surface of the retina, and is accompanied by corresponding veins. Third Nerve. (Figs. 284, 285.) The Third, or Motor Oculi Nerve, supplies all the muscles of the orbit, except the Superior oblique and External rectus; it also sends motor filaments to the iris. It is a rather large nerve, of rounded form and firm texture, having its apparent origin from the inner surface of the cms cerebri, immediately in front of the pons Varolii. The deep origin may be traced through the locus niger and tegmentum of the cms to a nucleus situated on either side of the median line in the floor of the aqueduct of Sylvius, beneath the corpora quadrigemina. On emerging from the brain, the nerve is invested with a sheath of pia mater, and enclosed in a prolongation from the arach- noid. It then pierces the dura mater below and external to the posterior clinoid process, passing between the two processes from the free and attached borders of the tentorium which are prolonged forwards to be connected with the anterior and pos- terior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone. It passes along the outer wall of the cavernous sinus, above the other orbital nerves, receiving in its course one or two filaments from the cavernous plexus of the sympathetic. It then divides into two branches, which enter the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, between the two heads of the External rectus muscle. On passing through the fissure, the nerve is placed below the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic nerve, and has, passing between its two divisions, the nasal nerve. * A specimen of congenital absence of the optic commissure is to he found in the Museum, of the Westminster Hospital.