437 SINUSES OF THE DURA MATER. on each side with the cavernous sinus. Its posterior half is larger than the anterior ; and in old age it is more capacious than at an early period of life. It receives veins from the pituitary body, and from the adjacent bone and dura mater. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus is situated in the groove formed by the junction of the inferior border of the petrous portion of the temporal with the basilar process of the occipital. It commences in front at the termination of tho cavernous sinus, and behind joins the lateral sinus, at the jugular foramen, forming the internal jugular vein. The junction of the two sinuses takes place at the lower border of, or just external to, the jugular foramen. The exact relation of the parts to one another in the fora- men is as follows : the inferior petrosal sinus is in front, and is directed obliquely downwards and backwards; the lateral sinus is situated at the back part of the fora- men, and between the two is the eighth pair of nerves. The junction of the sinuses 245.—Relation of Structures in Jugular Foramen. takes place external to the nerves, so that these latter lie a little internal to the venous channels in the foramen. (See fig. 245.) These sinuses are semi-cylindrical in form. The Transverse Sinus is placed transversely across the fore part of the basilar process of the occipital bone serving to connect the two inferior petrosal and cavernous sinuses. A second is occasionally found just in front of the foramen magnum. The Superior Petrosal Sinus is situated along the upper border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, in the front part of the attached margin of the ten- torium. It is small and narrow, and connects together the cavernous and lateral sinuses at each side. It receives a cerebellar vein {anterior lateral cerebellar) from the anterior border of the cerebellum, a vein from the internal ear, and sometimes a cerebral vein (inferior lateral cerebral) from the under part of the middle lobe.