WOLFFIAN BODY. cli body is in many respects analogous to that of the permanent kidney. It is composed partly of an excretory canal or duct, into which open numerous ' conduits,' rectilinear at first, but afterwards tortuous, and partly of a cellular or glandular structure, in which Malpighian tufts are found. It is fixed to the diaphragm by a superior ligament, and to the spinal column by an inferior or lumbar ligament. Its office is the same as that of the kidneys, viz., to secrete fluid containing urea, which accumulates in the bladder. When the permanent kidneys are formed, the greater part of the Wolffian body disappears. The rest takes part in the formation of the genital organs. . The activity of function of the Wolffian bodies is very transitory, and they attain their highest development by the sixth week, after which time they begin to decrease in size, and have nearly disappeared by the end of the third month. The duct of the Wolffian body is the part first formed, and it makes its appearance in a mass of blastema which lies below the heart and behind the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity, proceeding from the mesoblast at the point of separation of its two layers. As this mass is situated below the epiblast (reflected from the medullary cavity) at the side of the proto- Fig. C.—Enlarged view from the front of the left AVolffian body before the establishment of the distinction of sex (from Farre after Kobelt). a, a, b, d. Tubular structure of the Wolffian body, c Wolffian duct. /. Its upper extremity, rj. Its termination in x, the urogenital sinus, h. The duct of Mviller. ?'. Its upper still closed extremity. I: Its lower end terminating in the urogenital sinus. I. The mass of blastema for the reproductive organ, ovary, or testicle. vertebrae, and above the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity, it has been named ' the intermediate cell-mass.' In this mass, first the Wolffian duct is hollowed out, then the tubes of the Wolffian body begin to form as branches of the duct; next occurs a thickening or ridge—the Wolffian ridge or germ-epithelium—and next a groove which is converted into a duct, lying internal to the Wolffian duct, and called the duct of Muller. The Wolffian and Mullerian ducts open (along with the ureter when formed) into the common urogenital sinus, or cloaca, which is the termination of the common intestinal cavity, and into which the allantois also opens in front. As the allantois expands into the urinary bladder this common cavity is divided into two by a septum, to form the bladder in front and the rectum behind. The Wolffian and Mullerian ducts are soon connected by cellular substance into a single mass—the genital cord—in which the Wolffian ducts lie side by side in front, and the ducts of Muller behind, at first separate, but later on coalescing. The allantois communicates at first with the lower part of the primitive intestine by a canal—the urachus. After the second month the lower part