ARTICULATIONS. i5° Amph iarthrosis, Mixed Articulation. Diarthrosis, Moveable Joint. 1. Surfaces connected by fibro-cartilage, not separated by synovial membrane, and having limited motion. As in joints between bodies of vertebras. 2. Surfaces covered by fibro-cartilage ; lined by a partial synovial membrane. As in sacro-iliac and pubic symphyses. Arthrodia. Gliding joint; articulations by plane surfaces, which glide upon each other. As in sterno- and acromio- clavicular articulations. Enarthrosis. Ball-and-socket joint; capable of motion in all directions. Articulations by a globular head received into a cup-like cavity. As in hip and shoulder joints. Ginglymus. Hinge-joint; motion limited to two direc- tions, forwards and backwards. Articular surfaces fitted together so as to permit of movement in one plane. As hi the elbow, ankle, and knee. Diarthrosis rotatoria or Lateral Ginglymus. Articulation by a pivot process turning within a ring, or ring around a pivot. As in superior radio-ulnar articulation, and atlo- L axoid joint. The Kinds of Movement admitted in Joints. The movements admissible in joints may be divided into four kinds : gliding, angular movement, circumduction, and rotation. Gliding movement is the most simple kind of motion that can take place in a joint, one surface gliding over another. It is common to all moveable joints ; but in some, as in the articulations of the carpus and tarsus, it is the only motion permitted. This movement is not confined to plane surfaces, but may exist between any two contiguous surfaces, of whatever form, limited by the ligaments which enclose the articulation. Angular movement occurs only between the long bones, and may take place in four directions, forwards and backwards, constituting flexion and extension, or in- wards and outwards, constituting adduction and abduction. The strictly gingly- moid or hinge joints admit of flexion and extension only. Abduction and adduction, combined with flexion and extension, are met with in the more moveable joints; as in the hip, shoulder, and metacarpal joint of the thumb, and partially in the wrist. Circumduction is that limited degree of motion which takes place between the head of a bone and its articular cavity, whilst the extremity and sides of the limb are made to circumscribe a conical space, the base of which corresponds with the infer ior extremity of the limb, the apex with the articular cavity; this kind of motion is best seen in the shoulder and hip joints. Rotation is the movement of a bone upon its own axis, the bone retaining the same relative situation with respect to the adjacent parts ; as in the articulation between the atlas and axis, where the odontoid process serves as a pivot around which the atlas turns; or in the rotation of the radius upon the humerus, and also in the hip and shoiilder. The actions of the different joints of a limb are combined by means of the long muscles which pass over more than one joint, and which act to a certain extent as elastic ligaments in restraining certain actions of one joint, except when combined with corresponding movements of the other—these latter movements being usually in the opposite direction. Thus the shortness of the hamstiing-muscles prevents complete flexion of the hip, unless the knee-joint be also flexed so as to bring their attachments nearer together. The uses of this arrangement are threefold, i. It co-ordinates the kinds of movement which are the most habitual and necessary, and enables them to be performed with the least expenditure of power. ' Thus in the usual gesture of the arms, whether in grasping or rejecting, the shoulder and