THE SKELETON. Tl6 eminence, on which the body i*ests in sitting; and a thin ascending part, the ramus. The body, somewhat triangular in form, presents three surfaces, external, in- ternal, and posterior. The external surface corresponds to that portion of the acetabulum formed by the ischium; it is smooth and concave above, and forms a little more than two-fifths of that cavity; its outer margin is bounded by a pro- minent rim or hp, to which the cotyloid fibro-cartilage is attached. Below the acetabulum, between it and the tuberosity, is a deep groove, along which the tendon of the Obturator externus muscle runs, as it passes outwards to be inserted into the digital fossa of the femur. The internal surfaa is smooth, concave, and forms the lateral boundary of the true pelvic cavity; it is broad above, and separated from the venter of the ilium by the linea ilio-pectinea, narrow below; its posterior border presents, a little below its centre, a sharp process, the spine of_theJ^glimm, above and below which are the greater and lesser sacro-sciatic notches; in front, it presents a sharp margin, which forms the outer boundary of the obturator foramen. This surface is perforated by two or three large vascular foramina, and affords attachment to part of the Obturator internus muscle. The posterior surface is quadrilateral in form, broad and smooth above, narrow below where it becomes continuous with the tuberosity; it is limited, in front, by the margin of the acetabulum ; behind, by the front part of the great sacro-sciatic notch. This surface supports the Pyriformis, the two Gemelli, and the Obturator internus muscles, in their passage outwards, to the great trochanter. The body of the ischium presents three borders, posterior, inferior, and internal. The posterior border presents, a little below the centre, a thin and pointed triangular eminence, the spine of the ischium, more or less elongated in different subjects. Its external surface gives attachment to the Gemellus superior, its internal surface to the Coccygeus and Levator ani; whilst to the pointed extremity is connected the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament. Above the spine is a notch of large size, the great sacro-sciatic, converted into a foramen by the lesser sacro-sciatic ligament; it transmits the Pyriformis muscle, the gluteal vessels, and superior gluteal nerve passing out of the pelvis above the muscle; the sciatic vessels, the greater and lesser sciatic nerves, the in- ternal pudic vessels and nerve, and muscular branches from the sacral plexus below it. Below the spine is a smaller notch, the lesser sacro-sciatic; it is smooth, coated in the recent state with cartilage, the surface of which presents numerous markings corresponding to the subdivisions of the tendon of the Obturator internus which winds over it. It is converted into a foramen by the sacro-sciatic ligaments, and transmits the tendon of the Obturator internus, the nerve which supplies that muscle, and the internal pudic vessels and nerve. The inferior border is thick and broad; at its point of j unction with the posterior is the tuberosity of the ischium. The internal border is thin, and forms the outer circumference of the obturator foramen. The tuberosity presents for examination an external lip, an internal lip, and an intermediate space. The external lip gives attachment to the Quadratus femoris, ^and part of the Adductor magnus muscles. The inner lip is bounded by a sharp ridge, for the attachment of a falciform prolongation of the great sacro-sciatic liga- •nient; it presents a groove on the inner side of this for the lodgment of the internal pudic vessels and nerve; and, more anteriorly, has attached the Transversus perinsei and Erector penis muscles. The intermediate surface presents four distinct impressions. Two of these, seen at the front part of the tuberosity, are rough, elongated, and separated from each other by a prominent ridge; the outer one gives attachment to the Adductor magnus, the inner one to the great sacro-sciatic ligament. Two, situated at the back part, are smooth, larger in size, and separated by an oblique ridge : from the upper and outer arises the Semi-membranosus; from the lower and inner, the Biceps and Semi-tendinosus. The uppermost part of the tuberosity gives attachment to the Gemellus inferior. The ramus, or ascending ramus, is the thin flattened part of the ischium, which ascends from the tuberosity upwards and inwards, and joins the ramus of the pubes