THE THYROID GLAND. 7i7 According to Dr. Baber, who has recently published some important observations on the minute structure of the thyroid,* the vesicles of the thyroid of the adult animal are generally closed cavities; but in some young animals [e.g. young dogs) the vesicles are more or less tubular and branched. This appearance he supposes to be due to the mode of growth of the gland, and merely indicating that an increase in the number of vesicles is taking place. Each vesicle is lined by a single layer of epithelium, the cells of which, though differing somewhat in shape in different animals, have always a tendency to assume a columnar form. Between the epithelial cells exists a delicate reticulum. The vesicles are of various sizes and shapes, and contain as a normal product a viscid, homogeneous, semi-fluid, slightly yellowish material, which frequently contains blood ; the red corpuscles of which are found in it in various stages of disintegration and decolourisation, the yellow tinge being probably due to the haemoglobin, which is thus set free from the coloured corpuscles. Baber has also described in the thyroid gland of the dog large round cells ('paren- chymatous cells '), each provided with a single oval-shaped nucleus, which migrate into the interior of the gland-vesicles. 407.—Minute Structure of Thyroid. From a Transverse Section of the Thyroid of a Doc. (Semi-diagrammatic.) From Dr. Baber's paper, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, vol. clxvi. pt. ii. p. 557. C ■1 A. Lumen of an artery, seen in transverse section. I). Cross section of a large lymphatic vessel that surrounds it, filled with a granular material. 0. Contents of the vesicles, which present a similar appearance to is. is. Walls of gland-vesicles, the epithelial cells of which are flattened by the action of reagents. The capillary blood-vessels form a dense plexus in the connective tissue around the vesicles, between the epithelium of the vesicles and the endothelium of the lymph- spaces, which latter surround a greater or smaller part of the circumference of the vesicle. These lymph-spaces empty themselves into lymphatic vessels, which run in the interlobular connective tissue, not uncommonly surrounding the arteries which they accompany, and communicate with a network in the capsule of the gland. Baber has found in the lymphatics of the thyroid a viscid material which is morphologically identical with the normal constituent of the vesicle. From this it follows that one of the functions of the thyroid is the destruction of the coloured corpuscles in the vesicles, and their removal and final discharge into the general circulation by the lymphatics. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries supplying the thyroid are the superior and * ' Researches on the Minute Structure of the Thyroid Gland,' Phil, Trans. Fart iii., 1881.