THE PLEURAE. of the chest, excepting at one point in front; an interspace being left between them, which contains all the viscera of the thorax excepting the lungs : this is the mediastinum. Reflections of the Pleura (fig. 402).—Commencing at the sternum, the pleura passes outwards, covers the costal cartilages, the inner surface of the ribs and Inter- costal muscles, and at the back part of the thorax passes over the thoracic ganglia and their branches, and is reflected upon the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae, where it is separated by a narrow interspace from the opposite pleura, the posterior mediastinum. From the vertebral column the pleura passes to the side of the peri- cardium, which it covers to a slight extent: it then covers the back part of the root of the lung, from the lower border of which a triangular fold descends vertically by the side of the posterior mediastinum to the Diaphragm. This fold is the broad ligament of the lung, the ligamentum latum pulmonis, and serves to retain the lower part of that organ in position. From the root, the pleura may be traced over the convex surface of the lung, the summit and base, and also over the sides of the fissures between the lobes. It covers its anterior surface and the front part of its root, and is reflected upon the side of the pericardium to the inner surface of the sternum. Below, it covers the under surface of the Diaphragm. Above, its apex projects, in the form of a cul-de-sac, through the superior opening of the thorax into the neck, extending about an inch above the margin of the first lib, and receives the summit of the corresponding lung; this sac is strengthened, according to Dr. Sibson, by a dome-like expansion of fascia, derived from the lower part of the Scaleni muscles. A little above the middle of the sternum, the contiguous surfaces of the two pleurae are sometimes in contact for a slight extent; but above and below this point, the interval left between them forms the anterior mediastinum. The inner surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and moistened by a serous fluid; its outer surface is intimately adherent to the surface of the lung, and to the pulmonary vessels as they emerge from the pericardium ; it is also adherent to the upper surface of the Diaphragm : throughout the rest of its extent it is somewhat thicker, and may be separated from the adjacent parts with extreme facility. The right pleural sac is shorter, wider, and reaches higher in the neck than the left. Vessels and Nerves.—The arteries of the pleura are derived fr om the intercostal, the internal mammary, the musculo-phrenic, thymic, pericardiac, and bronchial. The veins correspond to the arteries. The lymphatics are very numerous. The nerves are derived from the phrenic and sympathetic (Luschka). Kolliker states that nerves accompany the ramification of the bronchial arteries in the pleura pulmonalis. Mediastinum. The mediastinum is the space left in the median line of the chest by the non- approximation of the two pleura?. It extends from the sternum in front to the spine behind, and contains all the viscera in the thorax excepting the lungs. The medi- astinum is subdivided, for convenience of description, into the anterior, middle, and posterior. The anterior mediastinum is bounded in front by the sternum, on each side by the pleura, and behind by the pericardium. Owing to the oblique position of the heart towards the left side, this space is not parallel with the sternum, but directed obliquely from above downwards, and to the left of the median line ; it is broad below, nari-ow above, very narrow opposite the second piece of the sternum, the con- tiguous surfaces of the two pleura being occasionally united over a small space. The anterior mediastinum contains the origins of the Sterno-hyoid and Sternojj thyroid muscles, the Triangularis sterni, the internal mammary vessels of the left side,,1 the remains of the thymus gland, and a quantity of loose areolar tissue, in which I some lymphatic vessels are found ascending from the convex surface of the liver. The middle mediastinum is the broadest part of the interpleural space. It con- tains the heart, enclosed in the pericardium, the ascending aorta, the superior vena