634 ORGANS OF DIGESTION. Vessels and Nerves. The sublingual gland is supplied with blood from the sublin gual and submental arteries. Its nerves are derived from the gustatory. Structure. The salivary are compound racemose glands, consisting of numerous lobes, which are made up of smaller lobules, connected together by dense areolar tissue, vessels, and ducts. Each lobule consists of the ramifications of a single duct, ' branching frequently in a tree-like manner,' the branches terminating in dilated ends or alveoli on which the capillaries are distributed. These alveoli, however, as Pnuger points out, are not necessarily spherical, though sometimes they assume that form, sometimes they are perfectly cylindrical, and very often they are mutually compressed. They are lined by an epithelium which almost fills the alveolus, the cells of which, called salivary cells, are spheroidal masses of protoplasm, and contain a single nucleus ; which, after death, is found to be much compressed, and placed at the periphery of the cell. Here and there in the alveolus are seen peculiar half- moon-shaped bodies, lying between the cells and the membrana propria of the alveolus. They are termed the crescents of Gianuzzi, and are regarded by Pnuger as clue to post-mortem change: by Klein they are considered to be ' semilunar groups of parietal granular cells.' The salivary cells are supported by the basement membrane, on the other side of which the capillaries are distributed. Pnuger describes the nerves as being directly continuous with the tissues of the alveoli, the nerve sometimes passing through a ganglion-cell just before joining the alveolus (fig. 354 B). Through these cells the fibres of the nerve become directly attached to the 355-—An Alveolus of a Compound Eace- salivary cells. The ducts which originate out of the alveoli are lined at their com- mencement by epithelium which differs little from the pavement type. As the ducts enlarge, the epithelial cells change to the columnar type, and they are described by Pfliiger as attached to the basement mem- brane by a brush of fine hair-like processes, which he believes to be continuous with the nerve-fibres. Other anatomists regard these cells as merely striated on their deep surface. The ducts not only spring directly from the alveoli, but also be- tween the cells of the alveolus itself a fine branching network is found, which is either a lymphoid tissue continuous with the sheath of the duct, or a system of branching tubes by which the ducts commence between the salivary cells (fig. 355), as the biliary ducts are said to commence between the hepatic cells (see fig. 382, p. 672). The ducts have also diverticular passages lined with columnar epithelium, and it seems that the secre- tion goes on in these diverticula and in the wider portions of the ducts where the columnar epithelium exists as well as in the alveoli. In the submaxillary and sublingual glands the lobes are larger and more loosely united than in the parotid. The secretion is watery, especially in the parotid gland, in the secreting cells of which it is said that no mucous globules are found, as they are in those of the other salivary glands. Its reaction is alkaline. The solids, which amount to about 6 in 1,000 parts, are composed of a peculiar ferment,* called ptyalin (1^ parts), epithelium and mucus (about 2 parts), salts, viz. sulphocyanide of potassium, phosphate and chloride of sodium, phosphate of lime, phosphate of magnesium, and chloride of * The student must recollect that a ferment is a body which initiates and propagates, its action irrespective of the quantity of it which is present in the mixture. Thus a very minute portion of ptyalin will decompose a large quantity of starch. mose Gland, injected from the Excretory Duct. (Highly magnified.) Hardly any- thing but the dark injecting fluid is shown ; the alveolar cells and nuclei are only faintly indicated ; those of the duct are not represented at all. The injec- tion is seen rilling the central cavity of the alveolus, and passing from this in fine channels (represented by black re- ticulating lines) between and around the cells. (After Saviotti.)