EIGHTH. GLOSSO-PHAEYNGEAL. Auditory Nerve. The Auditory Nerve {portio mollis of the seventh pair) is the special nerve of the sense of hearing, being distributed exclusively to the internal ear. The auditory nerve appeal's at the base of the brain, in the groove between the olivary and restiform bodies at the lower border of the pons. It lies external to the facial nerve. It has three origins :—i. From the superior vermiform process of the cerebellum. 2 and 3. From the inner and outer auditory nuclei formed chiefly by the grey substance of the posterior pyramid and restiform body. The nerve winds round the restiform body, from which it receives fibres, and passes forwards across the pos- terior border of the crus cerebelli, in company with the facial nerve, from which it is partially separated by a small artery. It then enters the meatus auditorius internus, in company with the facial nerve, and, at the bottom of the meatus, divides into two branches, cochlear and vestibular, and which are distributed, the former to the cochlea, the latter to the vestibule and semicircular canals. The auditory nerve is very soft in texture (hence the name portio mollis), destitute of neurilemma, and, within the meatus, receives one or two filaments from the facial. The distribution of the auditory nerve in the internal ear will be found described along with the anatomy of that organ in a subsequent page. Eighth Pair. (Fig. 292.) The eighth pair consists of three nerves : the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumogastric, and spinal accessory. The Glosso-Pharyngeal Nerve (fig. 292) is distributed, as its name implies, to the tongue and pharynx, being the nerve of sensation to the mucous membrane of the pharnyx, fauces, and tonsil; of motion to the Pharyngeal muscles; and a special nerve of taste in all the parts of the tongue to Which it is distributed. It is the smallest of the three divisions of the eighth pair, and arises by three or four filaments closely connected together, from the upper part of the medulla oblongata, immediately behind the olivary body. Its deep origin may be traced through the fasciculi of the lateral tract, to a nucleus of grey matter at the lower part of the floor of the fourth ventricle above the nucleus of the vagus and below that of the auditory nerve. From its superficial origin, it passes outwards across the flocculus, ,and leaves the skull at the central part of the jugular foramen in a separate sheath of the dura mater and arachnoid, in front of the pneumogastric and spinal accessory nerves. In its passage through the jugular foramen, it grooves the lower border of the petrous portion of the temporal bone; and, at its exit from the skull, passes forwards between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and descends in front of the latter vessel, and beneath the styloid process and the muscles connected with it, to the lower border of the Stylo- pharyngeus. The nerve now curves inwards, forming an arch 011 the side of the neck, and lying upon the Stylo-pharyngeus and Middle constrictor of the pharynx, above the superior laryngeal nerve. It then passes beneath the Hyo-glossus, and is finally distributed to the mucous membrane of the fauces, and base of the tongue, the mucous glands of the mouth and tonsil. In passing through the jugular foramen, the nerve presents, in succession, two gangliform enlargements. The superior, the smaller, is called the jugular ganglion, the inferior and larger the petrous ganglion, or the ganglion of Andersch. The superior, or jugular ganglion, is situated in the upper part of the groove in which the nerve is lodged during its passage through the jugular foramen. It is of 292.—Nerves of the Eighth Pair, their Origin, Ganglia, and Communications. ■Jut/tildr GttntjC.