lxxxii OENTERAL ANATOMY. hall' of the cervix, is a group of nerve-cells, called the posterior vesicular eolu Dill. At the junction of the anterior and posterior cornu. in the outer portion of the grey matter, is a third group of cells, the tractue intermedio-lateraUsi In the cervical region of the cord these cells extend in amongst the fibres of the white matter of the lateral column. Origin of the Spinal Nerves in the Cord.—The posterior roots are larger than the anterior; hut their component filaments are finer and more delicate. They are attached to the cord at the junction of the lateral and posterior columns, and at once enter the posterior horn of grey matter : either directly through the substantia gelatinosa, or indirectly, by passing through the posterior column and entering the grey substance in front of the caput cornu. The former pass upwards and downwards and become continuous with Gerlach's nerve network, some of the fibres extending across the commissure to the opposite side of the cord ; others reaching the anterior column on the same side. The latter fibres enter the posterior vesicular column, and some passing through it run longitudinally in th posterior column. (Figs. XLV., XLVI.) The anterior roots are attached exclusively to the anterior column, o rather to the anterior part of the antero-lateral columns, for there is n antero-lateral fisswre dividing the anterior from the lateral column. Within the grey substance the fibrils cross each other, ami diverge in all direc tions, like the expanded hairs of a brush (figs. XLV., XLVI.), some of them running more or less longitudinally upwards and downwards: and other decussating with those of the opposite side through the anterior commis sure in front of the central canal. All the fibres of both roots of the nerves proceed through the white columns into the grey substance, with, perhaps, .the exception of som which appear to run longitudinally in the posterior columns; but whethe these latter fibres of the posterior roots ultimately enter the grey substanc of the cord, after a very oblique course, or whether they proceed upwards to the brain, is uncertain. The Central Canal of the Spinal Cord (fig. XLVIII.).—In the foetue, until after the sixth month, a canal, continuous with the general ventricular cavity of the brain, extends throughout the entire length of the spinal cord, formed by the closing-in of a previously open groove. In the adult this canal can only be seen at the upper part of the cordj extending from the point of the calamus scriptorius, in the floor of the fourth ventricle, for about half an inch down the centre of the cord, where it terminates in a rid-de-sae ; the remnant of the canal being just visible in a section of the cord as a small pale spot, corresponding to the centre of the grey commissure : its cavity is lined with a layer of cylindrical ciliated epithelium. In some cases this canal remains pervious throughout the whole length of the cord. The Gaiii/lia may be regarded as separate and independent nervous centres, of smaller size and less complex structure than the brain, con- nected with each other, with the cerebrospinal axis, and willi the nerves in various situations. They are found on tbe posterior root of each of the spinal nerves; on the posterior or sensory root of the fifth cranial nerve ;