THE THYMUS GLAND. 719 partly in the anterior mediastinum, partly in the neck, and extending from the fourth costal cartilage upwards, as high as the lower border of the thyroid gland. It is covered by the sternum, and by the origins of the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno- thyroid muscles. In the mediastinum it rests upon the pericardium, being separated from the arch of the aorta and great vessels by the thoracic fascia. In the neck it lies on the front and sides of the trachea, behind the Sterno-hyoid and Sterno- thyroid muscles. The two lobes generally differ in size ; they are occasionally united, so as to form a single mass ; and sometimes separated by an intermediate lobe. The thymus is of a pinkish-grey colour, soft, and lobulated on its surfaces. It is about two inches in length, one and a half in breadth below, and about three or four lines in thickness. At birth it weighs about half an ounce. 409.—Minute Structure of Thymus Gland. Follicle of injected thymus from calf, four days old, slightly diagrammatic, magnified about 50 diameters. The large vessels are disposed in two rings, one of which surrounds the follicle, the other lies just within the margin of the medulla. A and B. From thymus of camel, examined without addition of any reagent. Magnified about 400 diameters. A. Large colourless cell containing small oval masses of haemoglobin. Similar cells are found in the lymph-glands, spleen, and medulla of bone. B. Coloured blood-corpuscle. Structure.—Each lateral lobe is composed of numerous lobules, held together by delicate areolar tissue; the entire gland being enclosed in an investing capsule of a similar but denser structure. The primary lobules vary in size from a pin's head to a small pea, and are made up of a number of small nodules or follicles, which are irregular in shape and are more or less fused together, especially towards the interior of the gland. According to Watney, each follicle consists of a medullary and cortical portion, which differ in many essential particulars from each other. The cortical portion is mainly composed of lymphoid cells, supported by a delicate reticulum. In addition to this reticulum, of which traces only are found in the medullary portion, there is also a network of finely branched cells, with coarse threads, which is con-