m TEENAL ILIAC. 4°i Plan of the Relations op the Internal Iliac Artery. In Front. Peritoneum. Ureter. Behind. Internal iliac vein. Lumbosacral nerve. Pyriformis muscle. In the foetus, the internal iliac artery (hypogastric) is twice as large as the external iliac, and appears to be the continuation of the common iliac. Passing forwards to the bladder, it ascends along the sides of that viscus to its summit, to which it gives branches ; it then passes upwards along the back part of the anterior wall of the abdomen to the umbilicus, converging towards its fellow of the opposite side. Having passed through the umbilical opening, the two arteries twine round the umbilical vein, forming with it the umbilical cord; and, ultimately, ramifying in the placenta. The portion of the vessel within the abdomen is called the hypo- gastric artery ; and that external to that cavity, the umbilical artery. At birth, when the placental circulation ceases, the upper portion of the hypo- gastric artery, extending from the summit of the bladder upwards to the umbilicus contracts, and ultimately dwindles to a solid fibrous cord; but the lower portion, extending from its origin (in what is now the internal iliac artery) for about an inch and a half to the wall of the bladder, and thence to the summit of that organ, is not totally impervious, though it becomes considerably reduced in size ; and serves to convey blood to the bladder, under the name of the superior vesical artery. Peculiarities as regards length. In two-thirds of a large number of cases, the length of the internal iliac varied between an inch and an inch and a half; in the remaining1 third, it was more frequently longer than shorter, the maximum length being three inches, the minimum half an inch. The lengths of the common and internal iliac arteries bear an inverse proportion to each other, the internal iliac artery being long when the common iliac is short, and vice versa. As regards its place of division. The place of division of the internal iliac varies between the upper margin of the sacrum, and the upper border of the sacro-sciatic foramen. The arteries of the two sides in a series of cases often differed in length, but neither seemed constantly to exceed the other. Surgical Anatomy. The application of a ligature to the internal iliac artery may be required in cases of aneurism or haemorrhage affecting one of its branches. The vessel may be secured by making an incision through the abdominal parietes in the iliac region, in a direction and to an extent similar to that for securing the common iliac; the trans- versalis fascia having been cautiously divided, and the peritoneum pushed inwards from the iliac fossa towards the pelvis, the finger may feel the pulsation of the external iliac at the bottom of the wound : and, by tracing this vessel upwards, the internal iliac is arrived at, opposite the sacro-iliac articulation. It should be remembered that the vein lies behind, and on the right side, a little external to the artery, and in close contact with it; the ureter and peritoneum, which lie in front, must also be avoided. The degree of facility in apply- ing a ligature to this vessel will mainly depend upon its length. It has been seen that, in the great majority of the cases examined, the artery was short, varying from an inch to an inch and a half; in these cases, the artery is deeply seated in the pelvis; when, on the con- trary, the vessel is longer, it is found partly above that cavity. If the artery is very short, as occasionally happens, it would be preferable to apply a ligature to the common iliac, or upon the external and. internal iliacs at their origin. Collateral Circulation. In Prof. Owen's dissection of a case in which the internal iliac artery had been tied by Stevens ten years before death, for aneurism of the sciatic artery, the internal iliac was found impervious for about an inch above the point where the ligature had been applied ; but the obliteration did not extend to the origin of the external iliac, as the ilio-lumbar artery arose just above this point. Below the point of obliteration, the artery resumed its natural diameter, and continued so for half an inch; the obturator, D D