INFERIOR TURBINATED BONE. 53 posterior ethmoidal cells, and the sphenoidal sinus. The non-articular or free sur- faces are the superior or orbital, directed upwards and outwards, of triangular form, concave, smooth, and forming the back part of the floor of the orbit, and the ex- ternal or zygomatic surface, directed outwards, backwards, and downwards, of an oblong form, smooth, lying in the spheno-maxillary fossa, and looking into the zygomatic fossa. The latter surface is separated from the orbital by a smooth rounded border, which enters into the formation of the spheno-maxillary fissure. The Sphenoidal Process of the palate bone is a thin compressed plate, much smaller than the orbital, and directed upwards and inwards. It presents three surfaces and two borders. The superior surface, the smallest of the three, articu- lates with the horizontal part of the sphenoidal turbinated bone; h presents a ! groove which contributes to the formation of the pteiygo-palatine canal. The I internal surface is concave, and forms part of the outer wall of the nasal fossa. The external surface is divided into an articular and a non-articular portion; the former is rough for articulation with the inner surface of the pterygoid process of the sphenoid ; the latter is smooth, and forms part of the spheno-maxillary fossa. The anterior border forms the posterior boundary of the spheno-palatine foramen. The posterior border, serrated at the expense of the outer table, articulates with the inner surface of the pterygoid process. The orbital and sphenoidal processes are separated from one another by a deep notch, which is converted into a foramen, the sj)heno-palatine, by articulation with the sphenoidal turbinated bone. Sometimes the two processes are united above, and form between them a complete foiamen, or the notch is crossed by one or more spiculse of bone, so as to form two or more foramina. In the articulated skull, this foramen opens into the back part of the outer wall of the superior meatus, and transmits the spheno-palatine vessels and nerves. Development. From a single centre, which makes its appearance at the angle of junction of the two plates of the bone. From this point ossification spreads in- wards to the horizontal plate, downwards into the tuberosity, and upwards into the vertical plate. In the fcetus, the horizontal plate is much longer than the vertical; and even after it is fully ossified, the whole bone is at first remarkable for its shortness. Articulations. With six bones : the sphenoid, ethmoid, superior maxillary, in- ferior turbinated, vomer, and opposite palate. Attachment of Muscles. The Tensor palati, Azygos uvulse, Internal and External pterygoid, and Superior constrictor of the pharynx. The Inferior Turbinated Bones. The Inferior Turbinated Bones are situated one on each side of the outer wall of the nasal fossse. Each consists of a layer of thin spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll, hence its name ' turbinated;' and extends horizontally along the outer wall of the nasal fossa, immediately below the orifice of the antrum. Each bone presents two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. The internal surface (fig. 53) is convex, perforated by numerous apertures, and traversed by longitudinal grooves and canals for the lodgment of arteries and veins. In the recent state it is covered by the lining membrane of the nose. The external surface is concave (fig. 54), and forms part of the inferior meatus. Its upper border is thin, irregular, and connected to various bones along the outer wall of the nose. It may be divided into three portions; of these, the anterior articulates with the inferior' turbinated crest of the superior maxillary bone ; the posterior with the inferior turbinated crest of the palate bone; the middle portion of the superior border presents three well-marked processes, which vary much in their size and form. Of these the anterior and smallest is situated at the junction of the anterior fourth with the posterior three-fourths of the bone; it is small and pointed, and is called the lachrymal prqcess. for it articulates with the anterior inferior angle of the lachrymal bone, and by its margins, with the