471 SPINAL CORD. median fissure and the anterolateral fissure, from which the anterior roots of the nerves arise. It is continuous with the anterior pyramid of the medulla oblongata. The lateral column, the largest segment of the cord, includes all the portion between the antero- and postero-lateral fissures. It is continuous with the lateral column of the medulla. By some anatomists, the anterior and lateral columns are included together, under the name of the antero-lateral column, which forms rather more than two-thirds of the entire circumference of the cord. The posterior column is situated between the posterior median and postero-lateral fissures. It is continuous with the restiform body of the medulla. The poste?-ior median column is that narrow segment of the cord which is seen on each side of the posterior median fissure, usually included with the preceding, as the posterior column. Structure of the Cord. If a transverse section of the spinal cord be made, it will be seen to consist of white and grey nervous substance. The white matter is situated externally, and constitutes the greater part. The grey substance occupies the centre, and is so arranged as to present on the surface of the section two crescentic masses placed one in each lateral half of the cord, united together by a transverse band of grey matter, the grey commissure. Each crescentic mass has an anterior and posterior horn. The posterior horn is long and narrow, and approaches the surface of the postero-lateral fissure, near which it presents a slight enlargement. The anterior horn is short and thick, and does not quite reach the surface, but extends towards the point of attachment of the anterior roots of the nerves. Its margin presents a dentate or stellate appearance. Owing to the projections towards the surface of the anterior and posterior horns of the grey matter, each half of the cord is divided, more or less completely, into three columns, anterior, middle, and posterior; the anterior and middle being joined to form the antero-lateral column, as the anterior horn does not quite reach the surface. The grey commissure, which connects the two crescentic masses of grey matter, is separated from the bottom of the anterior median fissure by the anterior white commissure ; and from the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior white commissure. The grey commissure consists of a 262. Transverse Sections of transverse band of grey matter and of white fibres, the Cord. derived from the opposite half of the cord and the posterior roots of the nerves. The anterior com- missure is formed of fibres, partly from the anterior column, and partly from the fibrils of the anterior roots of the spinal nerves, which decussate as they Opposite Middle of Cervical pass across from one to the other side. region. Tlie mode of arrangement of the grey matter, and its amount in proportion to the white, vary in different parts of the cord. Thus, the posterior horns are long and narrow, in the cervical region; short and narrower, in the dorsal; short, but wider, in the Opposite Middle of Dorsal region lumbar region. In the cervical region, the crescentic portions are small, and the white matter more abun- dant than in any other region of the cord. In the dorsal region, the grey matter is least developed, the white matter being also small in quantity. In the Opposite Lumbar region. lumbar region, the grey matter is more abundant than in any other region of the cord. Towards the lower end of the cord, the white matter gradually ceases. The crescentic portions of the grey matter soon blend into a single mass, which forms the only constituent of the extreme point of the cord. The minute anatomy of the cord is described in the Introduction.