MUSCLES AND FASCI.E. 302 is attached to the crest of the pubos and is continuous with the fascia covering the anterior surface of the muscle ; the fibres pass downwards, backwards, and outwards, to be inserted into a rough line leading from the trochanter minor to the linea aspera. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the pubic portion of the fascia lata, which separates it from the femoral vessels and internal saphenous vein. By its posterior surface, with the hip-joint, the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus muscles, the obturator vessels and nerve being interposed. By its outer border, with the Psoas, a cellular interval separating them, through which passes the internal circum- flex artery. By its inner border, with the margin of the Adductor longus. The Adductor longus, the most superficial of the three Adductors, is a flat triangular muscle, lying on the same plane as the Pectineus, with which it is often ' 'blended above. It arises, by a flat narrow tendon, from the fjcojiluaOhejyibes, at the angle of junction of the crest with the symphysis; and soon expands into a broad fleshy belly, which, passing downwards, backwards, and outwards, ia inserted, J (by an aponeurosis, into the middle third of the linea aspera, between the Vastus internus and the Adductor magnus. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the fascia, lata, and, near its insertion, with the femoral artery and vein. By its posterior surface, with the Adductor brevis and magnus, the anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve, and with the profunda artery and vein near its insertion. By its outer border, with the Pectineus. By its inner border, with the Gracilis. The Pectineus and Adductor longus should now he divided near their origin, and turned downwards, when the Adductor brevis and Obturator externus will be exposed. The Adductor Brevis is situated immediately behind the two pi-eceding muscles It is somewhat triangular in form, and arises by a narrow origin from the outer ' surface of the descending ramus of the pubes, between the Gracilis and Obturator externus. Its fibres, passing backwards, outwards, and downwards, are inserted, by an aponeurosis, into the upper part of the linea aspera, immediately behind the Pectineus and upper part of the Adductor longus. Relations. By its anterior surface, with the Pectineus, Adductor longus, and anterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its ]Josterior surface, with the Adductor magnus, and posterior branches of the obturator vessels and nerve. By its outer border, with the Obturator externus, and conjoined tendou of the Psoas and Iliacus. By its inner border, with the Gracilis and. Adductor magnus. This muscle is pierced, near its insertion, by the middle perforating branch of the profunda artery. The Adductor brevis should now be cut away near its origin, and turned outwards, when the entire extent of the Adductor magnus will be exposed. The Adductor Magnus is a large triangular muscle, forming a septum between the muscles on the inner and those on the back of the thigh. It arises from I a small part of the descending ramus of the pubes, from the ascendjng_ramus of the ischium, and from the outer margin and under surface of the tuberosity of the ischium. Those fibres which arise from the ramus of the pubes are very short, horizontal in direction, and are inserted into the rough line leading from the great trochanter to the linea aspera, internal to the Gluteus maximus ; those from the ramus of the ischium are directed downwards and outwards with different degrees of obliquity, to be inserted, by means of a broad aponeurosis, into the whole length of the linea aspera and the upper part of its internal bifurcation below. The internal portion of the muscle, consisting principally of those fibres which arise from the tuberosity of the ischium, forms a thick fleshy mass consisting of coarse bundles which descend almost vertically, and terminate about the lower third of the thigh in a rounded tendon, which is inserted into the tubercle above the inner condyle of the femur, being connected by a fibrous expansion to the line leading upwards from the tubercle to the linea aspera. Between the two portions of the muscle an angular interval is left, tendinous in front, fleshy behind, for the passage of