ORGANS OF SENSE. 6 I 2 promontory. It distributes branches to1 the fenestra rotunda, fenestra ovalis, and to the lining membrane of the tympanum and Eustachian tube, and divides into three branches of communication, which are contained in grooves on the promontory. One of these arches forwards and downwards to the carotid canal to join the carotid plexus. A second runs vertically upwards to join the greater superficial petrosal nerve as it lies in the hiatus Fallopii. The third branch runs upwards and for- wards through the substance of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. In its course it passes by the ganglionic enlargement of the facial nerve, and receiving a connecting filament from it, becomes the lesser superficial petrosal nerve, which joins the otic ganglion. The chorda tympani quits the facial near the stylo-mastoid foramen, enters the tympanum at the base of the pyramid, and arches forwards across its cavity between the handle of the malleus and long process of the incus, to an opening internal to the Glaserian fissure. It is invested by a reflection of the lining membrane of the tympanum. Internal Ear or Labyrinth. The internal ear is the essential part of the organ, receiving the ultimate dis- tribution of the auditory nerve. It is called the labyrinth, from the complexity of 335.—The Osseous Labyrinth laid open. (Enlarged.) its shape, and consists of three parts: the vestibule, semicircular canals, and cochlea. It is formed by a series of cavities, channelled out of the substance of the petrous bone, communicating externally with the cavity of the tympanum, through the fenestra ovalis and rotunda ; and internally with the meatus audito- rius internus, which contains the auditory nerve. "Within the osseous labyrinth is contained the membranous labyrinth, upon which the ramifications of the auditory nerve are distributed. The Vestibule (fig. 335) is the common central cavity ot communication between the parts of the internal ear. . It is situated on the inner side of the tympanum, behind the cochlea, and in front of the semicircular canals. It is somewhat ovoidal in shape from before backwards, flattened from within outwards, and measures about one-fifth of an inch from before backwards, as well as from above downwards, being narrower from without inwards. On its outer or tympanic wall is the fenestra ovalis, closed, in the recent state, by the base of the stapes, and its annular ligament. On its inner wall, at the fore part, is a small circular depression, fovea hemispherica,