425 PULMONARY. The Digital Branches are four in number, and supply the three outer toes and half the second toe. The first passes outwards from the outer side of the plantar arch, and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe, passing in its course beneath the Abductor and short Flexor muscles. The second, third, and fourth run forwards along the metatarsal spaces, and on arriving at the clefts between the toes divide into collateral branches, which supply the adjacent sides of the three outer toes and the outer side of the second. At the bifurcation of the toes, each digital artery sends upwards, through the fore part of the corresponding metatarsal space, a small branch, which inosculates with the interosseous branches of the metatarsal artery. These are the anterior perforating branches. From the arrangement already described of the distribution of the vessels to the toes, it will be seen that both'sides of the three outer toes, and the outer side 238.—The Plantar Arteries. 239.—The Plantar Arteries. Superficial View. Deep View. of the second toe, are supplied bv branches from the plantar arch; both sides of the great toe, and the inner side of the second, being supplied by the communicating branch of the dorsalis pedis. Pulmonary Artery. (Fig. 209.) The pulmonary artery conveys the venous blood from the right side of the heart to the lungs. It is a short wide vessel, about two inches in length, arising from the left side of the base of the right ventricle, in front of the aorta. It ascends obliquely upwards, backwards, and to the left side, as far as the under surface of the arch of the aorta, where it divides into two branches of nearly equal size, the right and left pulmonary arteries. Relations. The greater part of this vessel is contained, together with the ascending part of the arch of the aorta, in the pericardium, being enclosed with it in a tube of serous membrane, continued upwards from the base of the heart, and has attached to it, above, the fibrous layer of the membrane. Behind, it rests at first upon the ascending aorta, and higher up lies in front of the left auricle