ARTERIES. 384 J)encendtng BrnneJl from Siepe ri or-Profit it drv 'Posterior Jittfiroxseoas this process and the olecranon, it lies beneath the Flexor carpi ulnaris, ascending between the heads of that muscle, beneath the ulnar nerve; it supplies the neigh- bouring muscles and joint, and anastomoses with the 22S._Arteries of the Back of the Forearm and Hand, inferior profunda, anasto- ruotica magna, and inter- osseous recurrent arteries (%• 2 2 5); The interosseous artery (fig. 224) is a short trunk about an inch in length, and of considerable size, which arises immediately below the tuberosity of the radius, and, passing back- wards to the upper border of the interosseous mem- brane, divides into two branches, the anterior and posterior interosseous. The anterior interosseous passes down the forearm on the anterior surface of the interosseous mem- brane, to which it is con- nected by a thin aponeu- rotic arch. It is accom- panied by the interosseous branch of the median nerve, and overlapped by the con- tiguous maigins of the Flexor profundus digito- rum and Flexor longus pollicis muscles, giving off in this situation muscular [branches, and the nutrient [arteries of the radius and 'lulna. At the upper border of the Pronator quadratus, a branch descends beneath the muscle, to anasto- mose in front of the carpus with branches from the anterior carpal and deep palmar ;arch. The continu- ation of the artery passes behind the Pronator quad- ratus (fig. 225), and, pierc- ing the interosseous mem- brane, anastomoses with the posterior interosseous artery. It then descends to the back of the wrist to join the posterior carpal arch. The anterior inter- osseous gives off a long, slender branch, which accompanies the median nerve, and gives offsets to its substance. This, the median artery, is sometimes much enlarged. The posterior interosseous artery passes backwards through the interval between Termination of teriot'I/Uerostff oat Tosrerior Coti'util (ffadint) —Metacarpal Jtctd/a /. Dorsalix PollicL: Dor.ntlis JbidioLs