ORGANS OF DIGESTION. 664 they are dissected off, the tube can be lengthened, and its sacculated character be- comes lost. In the sigmoid flexure the longitudinal fibres become more scattered, but upon its lower part, and round the rectum, they spread out and form a thick uniform layer. The circular fibres form a thin layer over the csecuni and colon, being especially accumulated in the intervals between the sacculi; in the rectum they form a thick layer, especially at its lower end, where they become numerous, and form the Internal sphincter. The cellular coat connects the muscular and mucous layers closely together. The mucous membrane, in the csecuin and colon, is pale, and of a greyish or pale yellow colour. It is quite smooth, destitute of villi, and raised into numerous cres- oentic folds which correspond to the intervals between the sacculi. In the rectum it is thicker, of a darker colour, more vascular, and connected loosely to the muscular coat, as in the oesophagus. When the lower part of the rectum is contracted, its mucous membrane is thrown into a number of folds, some of which, near the anus, are longitudinal in direction, and are effaced by the distension of the gut. Besides these there are certain permanent folds, of a semilunar shape, described by Mr. Houston.* They are usually three in number; sometimes a fourth is found, and 375.—Minute .Structure of Large Intestine. Solitary Gland. occasionally only two ai-e present. One is situated near the commencement of the rectum, on the right side; another extends inwards from the left side of the tube, opposite the middle of the sacrum ; the largest and most constant one projects back- wards from the fore part of the rectum, opposite the base of the bladder. When a fourth is present, it is situated about an inch above the anus on the back of the rectum. These folds are about half an inch in width, and contain some of the circu- lar fibres of the gut. In the empty state of the intestine they overlap each other, as Mr. Houston remarks, so effectually as to require considerable manoeuvring to con- duct a bougie or the finger along the canal of the intestine. Their use seems to be, ' to support the weight of faecal matter, and prevent its urging towards the anus, where its presence always excites a sensation demanding its discharge.' As in the small intestine, the mucous membrane consists of a muscular layer, the muscularis mucosa?; of a quantity of retiform tissue in which the vessels ramify; of a basement-membrane and epithelium, which is of the columnar variety, and exactly resembles the epithelium found in the small intestine. The mucous membrane of this portion of the bowel presents for examination simple follicles and solitary glands. The simple follicles are minute tubular prolongations of the mucous membrane, * Dub. Hosp. Reports, vol. v. p. 163.