THE GANGLIA. lxxxiii on the facial nerve ; on the glosso-pharyngeal and pneumogastric nerves; in a connected series along each side of the vertebral column, forming the trunk of the sympathetic ; on the branches of that nerve, and at the point of junction of those branches with the cerebro-spinal nerves. On section, they are seen to consist of a reddish-grey substance, traversed by numerous white nerve-fibres: they vary considerably in form and size ; the largest are found in the cavity of the abdomen ; the smallest, not visible with the naked eye, exist in considerable numbers upon the nerves distributed to the different viscera. The ganglia are invested by a smooth and firm closely-adhering membranous envelope, consisting of dense areolar tissue ; this sheath is continuous with the perineurium of the nerves, and sends Fig. XLVIII.—From a transverse section through the spinal canal of a calf. Mag- nified about 180 diameters, showing part of the central canal and the tissue imme- diately around it, viz. the central grey nucleus. (Klein and Noble Smith.) The canal is lined with epithelium, composed of ciliated more or less conical cells; in most instances a fila- mentous process passes irom the cell into the tissue underneath. This tissue contains, in a hyaline matrix, a network of fibrils ; most of these run hori- zontally, others have a longitudinal course, and appear therefore here cut transversely, i.e. as small dots. The nuclei correspond to the cells of the neuroglia, the cell-substance not being shown. Both the nuclei of the neuroglia-cells and those of the epithelium contain three or more large disc-shaped particles. Fir. XLIX.—Section through a micro- scopic ganglion. Magnified 300 diameters. (Klein and Noble Smith.) c. Capsule of the ganglion. «. K'erve-fibres passing out of the ganglion. The nerve-fibres which entered the ganglion are not represented. The nerve- fibres are ordinary medullated fibres, but the details of their structure are not shown, owing to the low magnifying power. The gang]ion-cells are invested by a special capsule, lined by a few nuclei, which are here represented as if contained in the capsule. numerous processes into the interior of the ganglion, which support the blood-vessels supplying its substance. In structure, all ganglia are essentially similar, consisting of the same structural elements as the other nervous centres—viz., a collection of vesicular nervous matter, traversed by tubular and gelatinous nerve-fibres. The vesicular nervous matter consists of nerve-cells or ganglion-globules, most of which appear free, and of a round or oval form ; these are more especially seated near the surface of the ganglion; others have caudate processes, and give origin to nerve-fibres. In the ganglion, the nerve-cells are usually enclosed in a capsule of granular corpuscles and fibres. The tubular nerve-fibres run through the ganglion, some being collected into bundles, while others, separating from each other, take a circuitous course among the nerve-cells before leaving the ganglion.