38o ARTERIES. To tie the artery in the upper third, an incision three inches in length should be made through the integument, from the bend of the elbow obliquely downwards and outwards, on the radial side of the forearm, avoiding the branches of the median vein; the fascia of the arm being divided, and the Supinator longus drawn a little outwards, the artery will be exposed. The venae comites Radial Rceu VTt should be carefully separated from the vessel, and the ligature passed from the radial to the ulnar side. In the middle third of the forearm the artery may be ex- posed by making an incision of similar length on the inner mar- gin of the Supinator longus. In this situation, the radial nerve lies in close relation with the outer side of the artery, and should, as well as the veins, be carefully avoided. Iu the lower third, the artery is easily secured by dividing the integument and fascia in the interval between the tendons of the Supinator longus and Flexor carpi radialis muscles. The branches of the radial artery may be divided into three groups, corresponding with the three regions in which the vessel is situated. r Radial recurrent. In the J Muscular. Forearm. | Superficialis vote. L Anterior carpal. Posterior carpal. Metacarpal. = I 'Qm-I ] Dorsales pollicis. L Dorsalis indicis. 223.—The Surgical Anatomy of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries. Wrist. r] ] Hand. C Princeps pollicis. J Radialis indicis. J Perforating. L Interosseous. The radial recurrent is given off immediately below the elbow. It ascends between the branches of the musculo- spiral nerve, lying on the Supinator brevis, and then between the Supinator longus and Brachialis anticus, sup- plying these muscles and the elbow-joint, and anastomosing with the terminal branches of the superior profunda. The muscular branches are distributed to the muscles on the radial side of the forearm. The superficialis voice arises from the radial artery, just where this vessel is about to wind round the wrist. Run- J)erj/ tmitaft cf Vlntur Sujiirficuilta Vala