675 THE PANCREAS. The body of the pancreas is convex in front, and covered by the ascending layer of the transverse meso-colon and the posterior surface of the stomach. The posterior surface is concave, and has the following structures interposed between it and the first lumbar vertebra : the superior mesenteric artery and vein, the commencement of the vena portse, the vena cava, the aorta. The upper border is thick, and has resting upon it, near its centre, the coeliac axis; the splenic artery and vein are lodged in a deep groove or canal in this border; and to the right, the first part of the duodenum and the hepatic artery are in relation with it. The lower border, thinner than the upper, is separated from the transverse portion of the duodenum by the superior mesenteric artery and vein • to the left of these the inferior mesenteric vein ascends behind the pancreas to join the splenic vein. The pancreatic duct, called the canal of Wirsung, from its discoverer, extends transversely from left to right through the substance of the pancreas, nearer to its lower than its upper border, and lying nearer its anterior than its posterior surface. In order to expose it, the superficial portion of the gland must be removed. It commences by the junction of the small ducts of the lobules situated in the tail of the pancreas, and running from left to right, it constantly receives the ducts of the various lobules composing the gland, and considerably augmented in size, it leaves the head of the pancreas, and descending slightly, it gets into relation with the common bile-duct, lying to its left side, and passing very obliquely through the mucous and muscular coats of the duodenum, it terminates by an orifice common to it and the ductus communis choledochus upon the summit of an elevated papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle. Sometimes the pancreatic duct and ductus communis choledochus open separately into the duodenum. The excretory duct of the lesser pancreas is called the ductus pancreaticus minor • it opens into the main duct near the duodenum, and sometimes separately into that intestine, at a distance of an inch or more from the termination of the principal duct. The pancreatic duct, near the duodenum, is about the size of an ordinary quill : its walls are thin, consisting of two coats, an external fibrous and an internal mucous; the latter is thin, smooth, and furnished, near its termination, with a few scattered follicles. Sometimes the pancreatic duct is double up to its point of entrance into the duodenum. In structure, the pancreas resembles the salivary glands. It differs from them, however, in certain particulars, and is looser and softer in its texture. It is not enclosed in a distinct capsule, but is surrounded by areolar tissue, which dips down into its interior, and connects together the various lobules of which it is composed. Each lobule, like the lobules of the salivary glands, consists of one of the ultimate ramifications of the pancreatic duct, terminating in a number of csecal pouches or acini. The minute ducts are lined by short columnar epithelium, shorter than that found in the salivary ducts, and the acini are wavy and convoluted. They also are lined by columnar cells, which present certain characteristics; each cell showing an outer homogeneous portion, which becomes deeply stained with dyes, and contains the nucleus, and an inner granular portion, which does not easily stain. The lumen of the alveolus is hardly visible, being filled with an interstitial substance containing spindle-shaped cells, the centro-acinar cells of Langerhaus. The fluid secreted by it is almost identical with saliva, but contains no sulphocyanogen. Its uses are, to some extent, the same as those of the saliva, since it also converts starch into dextrine and grape sugar; but it has two other important functions—-first in the digestion of fat, which it partly emulsifies, so as to render it capable of passing into the lacteals (being in this assisted by the bile), and partly saponifies—the alkaline pancreatic juice forming with the fatty acids a soap which is absorbed by the blood-vessels; second, in the digestion of albuminous and gelatinous substances, which it converts into peptones. This digestion is accompanied by the formation of various chemical x x 2