528 CRANIAL NERVES. posterior surface of the stomach, joining the left side of the cceliac plexus, and the splenic plexus. On the left side, the pneumogastric nerve enters the chest between the left carotid and subclavian arteries, behind the left innominate vein. It crosses the arch of the aorta, and descends behind the root of the left lung and along the anterior surface of the oesophagus to the stomach, distributing branches over its anterior surface, some extending over the great cul-de-sac, and others along the lesser curvature. Filaments from these branches enter the gastro-hepatic omentum, and join the left hepatic plexus. The ganglion of the root is of a greyish colour, circular in form, about two lines in diameter, and resembles the ganglion on the large root of the fifth nerve. Connecting branches. To this ganglion the accessory portion of the spinal accessory nerve is connected by several delicate filaments; it also has a communicating twig with the petrous ganglion of the glosso-pharyngeal, with the facial nerve by means of its auricular branch, and with the sympathetic by means of an ascending filament from the superior cervical ganglion. The ganglion of the trunk (inferior) is a plexiform cord, cylindrical in form, of a reddish colour, and about an inch in length ; it involves the whole of the fibres of the nerve, except the portion of the ntrve derived from the spinal accessory, which blends with the nerve beyond the ganglion. Connecting branches. This ganglion is connected with the hypoglossal, the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic, and the loop between the first and second cervical nerves, The branches of the pneumogastric are— In the jugular fossa In the neck In the thorax In the abdomen The auricular branch (Arnold's) arises from the ganglion of the root, and is joined soon after its origin by a filament from the petrous ganglion of the glosso- pharyngeal; it passes outwards behind the jugular vein, and enters a small canal on the outer wall of the jugular fossa. Traversing the substance of the temporal bone, it crosses the aquseductus Fallopii about two lines above its termination at the stylo-mastoid foramen ; here it gives off" an ascending branch, which joins the facial, and a descending branch which communicates with the posterior auricular branch of the same nerve : the continuation of the nerve reaches the surface by passing through the auricular fissure between the mastoid process and the external auditory meatus, supplies the integument at the back part of the pinna, and communicates with the branches of the auricularis magnus. The pharyngeal branch, the principal motor nerve of the pharynx, arises from the upper part of the inferior ganglion of the pneumogastric, receiving a filament from the accessory portion of the spinal accessory; it passes across the internal carotid artery (in front or behind), to the upper border of the Middle constrictor, where it divides into numerous filaments, which communicate with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, superior laryngeal (its external branch), and sympathetic, to form the pharyngeal plexus, from which branches are distributed to the muscles and mucous membrane of the pharynx. As this nerve crosses the internal carotid, some filaments are distributed, together with those from the glosso-pharyngeal, upon the wall of this vessel. The superior laryngeal is the nerve of sensation to the larynx. It is larger than Auricular. / Pharyngeal. ] Superior laryngeal. 1 Recurrent laryngeal. (Cervical cardiac. /"Thoracic cardiac. ] Anterior pulmonary. ] Posterior pulmonary. ((Esophageal. Gastric.