459 OF THE UPPER AISTD LOWER EXTREMITY. The axillary glands are of large size, and usually ten or twelve in number. A chain of these glands surrounds the axillary vessels imbedded in a quantity of loose areolar tissue; they receive the lymphatic vessels from the arm ; others are dispersed in the areolar tissue of the axilla : the remainder are arranged in two series, a small chain running along the lower border of the Pectoralis major, as far as the mammary gland, receiving the lymphatics from the front of the chest and mamma; and others are placed along the lower margin of the posterior wall of the axilla, which receive the lymphatics from the integument of the back. Two or three subclavian lymphatic glands are placed immediately beneath the clavicle; it is through these that the axillary and deep cervical glands communicate with each other. In malignant diseases, tumours, or other affections implicating the upper part of the back and shoulder, the front of the chest and mamma, the upper part of the front and side of the abdomen, or the hand, fore-arm, and arm, the axillary glands are liable to be found enlarged. The superficial lymphatics of the upper extremity commence on the fingers; two vessels running along either side of each finger, one on the palmar and the other on the dorsal surface. Those on the palmar surface form an arch in the palm of the hand, from which are derived two sets of vessels, which pass up the fore-arm, taking the course of the subcutaneous veins. The lymphatics from the dorsal surface of the fingers form a plexus on the back of the hand, and winding around the inner and outer borders of the fore-arm unite with those in front. Those from the inner border of the hand accompany the ulnar veins along the inner side of the fore-arm to the bend of the elbow, where they join with some lymphatics from the outer side of the fore-arm ; they then follow the course of the basilic vein, communicate with the glands immediately above the elbow, and terminate in the axillary glands, joining with the deep lymphatics. The superficial lymphatics from the outer and back part of the hand accompany the radial veins to the bend of the elbow. They are less numerous than the preceding. At the bend of the elbow, the greater number join the basilic group; the rest ascend with the cephalic vein on the outer side of the arm, some crossing the upper part of the Biceps obliquely, to terminate in the axillary glands, whilst one or two accompany the cephalic vein in the cellular inter- val between the Pectoralis major and Deltoid, and enter the subclavian lymphatic glands. The deep lymphatics of the upper extremity accompany the deep blood-vessels. In the fore-arm, they consist of four sets, corresponding with the radial, ulnar, and interosseous arteries; they pass through the glands occasionally found in the course of those vessels, and communicate at intervals with the superficial lymphatics. In their course upwards, some of them pass through the glands which lie upon the brachial artery; they then enter the axillary and subclavian glands, and at the root of the neck terminate, on the left side, in the thoracic duct, and on the right side in the right lymphatic duct. Lymphatics of the Lower Extremity. The Lymphatic Glands of the lower extremity may be subdivided into two sets, superficial and deep; the former are confined to the inguinal region. The superficial inguinal glands, placed immediately beneath the integument, are of large size, and vary from eight to ten in number. They are divisible into two groups : an upper, disposed irregularly along Poupart's ligament, which receive the lymphatic vessels from the integument of the scrotum, penis, parietes of the abdomen, perineal and gluteal regions; and an inferior group, which surround the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, a few being sometimes continued along the saphenous vein to a variable extent. The latter receive the superficial lymphatic vessels from the lower extremity. These glands frequently become enlarged in diseases implicating the parts from which their lymphatics originate. Thus in ma- lignant or syphilitic affections of the prepuce and penis, or of the labia majora in the female^ in cancer scroti, in abscess in the perinseum, or in any other disease affecting