SURGICAL ANATOMY OF THE PERINEUM. 788 each segment of the muscle passes inwards, and divides into two fasciculi, which surround the urethra from the prostate gland behind, to the bulbous portion of the urethra in front; and unite, at the upper and lower surfaces of this tube, with the muscle of the opposite side, by means of a tendinous raphe. Circular Muscular Fibres surround the membranous portion of the urethra from the bulb in front to the prostate gland behind ; they are placed immediately beneath the transverse fibres already described, and are continuous with the muscular fibres of the bladder. These fibres are involuntary. Cowper's Glands are situated immediately below the membranous portion of the urethra, close behind the bulb, and below the artery of the bulb (p. 741). The Pudic Vessels and Nerves are placed along the inner margin of the pubic arch (P- 4°3)- The Artery of the Bulb passes transversely inwards, from the internal pudic along the base of the triangular ligament, between the two layers of fascia, accompanied by a branch of the pudic nerve (p. 405). 450.—Deep Perineal Fascia. On the left side the anterior layer has been removed. If the posterior layer of the deep perineeal fascia is removed, and the crus penis of one side detached from the bone, the under or perineeal surface of the Levator ani is brought fully into view. This muscle, with the triangular ligament in front and the Coccygeus and Pyriformis behind, closes in the outlet of the pelvis. The Levator ani is a broad thin muscle, situated on each side of the pelvis. It is attached to the inner surface of the sides of the true pelvis, and, descending, unites with its fellow of the opposite side to form the floor of the pelvic cavity. It supports the viscera in this cavity, and surrounds the various structures which pass through it. It arises, in front, from the posterior surface of the body and ramus of the pubes, on the outer side of the symphysis; posteriorly, from the inner surface of the spine of the ischium ; and between these two points, from the angle of division between the obturator and recto-vesical layers of the pelvic fascia at their under part: the fibres pass downwards to the middle line of the floor of the pelvis, and are inserted, the most posterior fibres into the sides of the apex of the_cqccyxj those