599 THE EYE. The changes produced in the lens by age, are the following :— In the foetus, its form is nearly spherical, its colour of a slightly reddish tint, it is not perfectly transparent, and is so soft as to break down readily on the slightest pressure. In the adult the posterior surface is more convex than the anterior; it is colour- less, transparent, and firm in texture. In old age it becomes flattened on both surfaces, slightly opaque, of an amber tint, and increases in density. The suspensory ligament of the lens is a thin, transparent, membranous structure, placed between the vitreous body and the ciliary processes of the choroid; it connects the anterior margin of the vitreous humour with the anterior surface of the lens near its circumference. It assists in retaining the lens in its position. Its outer surface presents a number of folds or plaitings in which the corresponding folds of the ciliary processes are received. These plaitings are arranged round the lens in a radiating form, and are stained by the pigment of the ciliary processes. It is a part of the hyaloid membrane, which, as described above, is continued forwards to the anterior part of the margin of the lens. It is covered on its outer surface by the pars ciliaris, or connective tissue framework of the retina, prolonged forwards from the ora serrata. That portion of this membrane which intervenes between the ciliary processes and the capsule of the lens, forms part of the boundary of the pos- terior chamber of the eye. The posterior surface of this layer is turned towards the hyaloid membrane, being separated from it at the circumference of the lens by a space called the canal of Petit. The canal of Petit is above one-tenth of an inch wide. It is bounded in front by the suspensory ligament; behind by the vitreous humour, its base being formed by the capsule of the lens. When inflated with air, it is sacculated at intervals, owing to the foldings on its anterior surface. The vessels of the globe of the eye are the short, long, and anterior ciliary arteries, and the arteria centralis retina;. The short ciliary arteries pierce the back part of the sclerotic, round the entrance of the optic nerve, and divide into branches which run parallel with the axis of the eyeball: they are distributed to the inner layer of the choroid, and to the ciliary processes. The long ciliary arteries, two in number, pierce the back part of the sclerotic, and run forward, between that membrane and the choroid, to the Ciliary muscle, where they each divide into an upper and lower branch ; these anastomose, and form a vascular circle round the outer circumference of the iris; from this circle branches are given off, which unite, near the margin of the pupil, in a smaller vascular circle. These branches, in their course, supply the muscular structure. The anterior ciliary arteries, five or six in number, are blanches of the muscular and lachrymal branches of the ophthalmic. They pierce the eyeball, at the ante- rior part of the sclerotic, immediately behind the margin of the cornea, and are distributed to the ciliary processes, some branches joining the greater vascular circle of the iris. The arteria centralis retinas has been already described. The veins, usually four in number, are formed mainly by branches from the sur- face of the choroid. They perforate the sclerotic, midway between the cornea and the optic nerve, and end in the ophthalmic vein. , The nerves of the eyeball are the optic, the long ciliary nerves from the nasal branch of the ophthalmic, and the short ciliary nerves from the ciliary ganglion. Appendages op the Eye. The appendages of the eye (tutamina oculi), include the eyebrows, the eyelids, the conjunctiva, and the lachrymal apparatus, viz. the lachrymal gland, the lachrymal sac, and the nasal duct. The eyebrows (supercilia) are two arched eminences of integument, which sur-