673 THE GALL-BLADDER. Structure.—The gall-bladder consists of three coats—serous, fibrous and muscular, and mucous. The external or serous coat is derived from the peritoneum ; it completely invests the fundus, but covers the body and neck only on their under surface. The middle or fibrous coat is a thin but strong fibrous layer, which forms the framework of the sac, consisting of dense fibres which interlace in all directions. Plain muscular fibres are also found in this coat, disposed chiefly in a longitudinal direction, a few running transversely. The internal or mucous coat is loosely connected with the fibrous layer. It is generally tinged with a yellowish-brown colour, and is everywhere elevated into minute rugse, by the union of which numerous meshes are formed; the depressed intervening spaces having a polygonal outline. The meshes are smaller at the fun- dus and neck, being most developed about the centre of the sac. Opposite the neck of the gall-bladder, the mucous membrane projects inwards so as to form a large valvular fold. The mucous membrane is covered with columnar epithelium, and secretes an abundance of thick viscid mucus j it is continuous through the hepatic duct with the mucous membrane lining the ducts of the liver, and through the ductus com- munis choledochus with the mucous membrane of the alimentary canal. The Biliary Ducts are, the hepatic, the cystic, and the ductus communis choledochus. The hepatic duct is formed of two trunks of nearly equal size, which issue from the liver at the transverse fissure, one from the light, the other from the left lobe ; these unite and pass downwards and to the right for about an inch and a half, to join at an acute angle with the cystic duct, and so form the ductus communis choledochus. The cystic duct, the smallest of the three biliary ducts, is about an inch in length. It passes obliquely downwards and to the left from the neck of the gall-bladder, and joins the hepatic duct to form the common duct. It lies in the gastro-hepatic omentum in front of the vena porta?, the hepatic artery lying to its left side. The mucous membrane lining its interior is thrown into a series of crescentic folds, from five to twelve in number, which project into the duct in regular succession, and are directed obliquely round the tube, presenting much the appearance of a continuous spiral valve. They exist only in the human subject. When the duct has been dis- tended, the interspaces between the folds are dilated, so as to give to its exterior a sacculated appearance. The ductus communis choledochus, the largest of the three, is the common excre- tory fluct of the liver and gall-bladder. It is about three inches in length, of the diameter of a goose-quill, and formed by the junction of the cystic and hepatic ducts. It descends along the right border of the lesser omentum behind the first portion of the duodenum, in front of the vena porta?, and to the right of the hepatic artery; it then passes between the pancreas and descending portion of the duodenum, and, running for a short distance along the right side of the pancreatic duct, near its termination, passes with it obliquely between the mucous and muscular coats, the two opening by a common orifice upon the summit of a papilla, situated at the inner side of the descending portion of the duodenum, a little below its middle. Structure.—The coats of the biliary ducts are an external or fibrous, and an in- ternal or mucous. The fibrous coat is composed of a strong fibro-areolar tissue, with a certain amount of muscular tissue, arranged, for the most part, in a circular manner around the duct. The mucous coat is continuous with the lining membrane of the hepatic ducts and gall-bladder, and also with that of the duodenum ; and like the mucous membrane of these structures, its epithelium is of the columnar variety. It is provided with numerous mucous glands, which are lobulated and open by minute orifices, which are scattered irregularly in the larger ducts. In the smaller ducts, which lie in the portal canals in the substance of the liver, are also a number of orifices, disposed in two longitudinal rows, which were formerly regarded as the X X