593 THE EYE. in adjusting the eye to the vision of near objects. Mr. Bowman believed that this was effected by its compressing the vitreous body and so causing the lens to advance; but the view which now prevails is that the contraction of the muscle, by drawing on the ciliary processes, compresses the lens, increasing the curvature of its anterior surface, and causing the iris to advance. The pupil is at the same time slightly contracted.* The Retina may be exposed by carefully removing the choroid from its external surface. It is a delicate nervous membrane, upon the surface of which the images of external objects are received. Its outer surface is in contact with the choroid; its inner surface with the vitreous body. Behind, it is continuous with the optic nerve; it gradually diminishes in thickness from behind forwards; and, in front, extends nearly as far forwards as the ciliary ligament, where it terminates by a jagged margin, the ora serrata. It is soft, and semi-transparent, in the fresh state ; but soon becomes clouded, opaque, and of a pinkish tint. Exactly in the centre of the posterior part of the retina, and at a point corresponding to the axis of the eye, in which the sense of vision is most perfect, is a round, elevated, yellowish spot, called, after its discoverer, the yellow spot or limbus luteus (macula lutea) of Sommerring; having a central depression at its summit, the fovea centralis. The 323.—The Arteria Centralis Retinae, Yellow Spot, etc., the anterior Half of the Eyeball being removed. (Enlarged.) retina in the situation of the fovea centralis is exceedingly thin; so much so, that the dark colour of the choroid is distinctly seen through it; so that it presents more the appearance of a foramen, and hence the name ' foramen of Sommerring ' at first given to it. It exists only in man, the quadrumana, and some saurian reptiles. About one-tenth of an inch to the inner side of the yellow spot, is the point of entrance of the optic nerve; the arteria centralis retina? piercing its centre. This is the only part of the surface of the retina from which the power of vision is absent. Structure. The retina is an exceedingly complex structure, and when examined microscopically by means of sections made perpendicularly to its surface is found to consist of ten layers, which are named from within outwards, as follows :— 1. Membrana limitans interna. 2. Fibrous layer, consisting of nerve-fibres. 3. Vesicular layer, consisting of nerve-cells. 4. Inner molecular, or granular, layer. 5. Inner nuclear layer. 6. Outer molecular, or granular, layer. * See explanation and diagram in Power's ' Illustrations of some of the Principal Diseases of the Eye,' p. 590. Q Q