GENERAL AX ATOMY. CXXV1U decidua by the fact, which seems to he now estahlished by the researches of Dr. John Williams, that every discharge of ova is, as a rule, accom- panied by the formation of a decidua, and that the essence of menstrua- tion consists in the separation of a decidual layer of mucous membrane from the uterus. The Placenta is the organ by which the connection between the foetus and mother is maintained, and through which blood reaches the foetus and is returned to the uterus. It therefore subserves the purposes both of circulation and respiration. It is formed of two parts, as already shown - viz. the maternal portion which is developed out of the decidua vera (serotina), and the foetal placenta formed by the villous chorion. Its shape in the human subject is that of a disc, one side of which adheres to the uterine walls, while the other is covered by the amnion. The villi of the chorion (or foetal placenta) gradually enlarge, forming large projections— ' cotyledons'—which each contain the ramifications of vessels communi- cating with the umbilical arteries and veins of the foetus. These vascular tufts are covered with epithelium, and project into corresponding depres- sions in the mucous membrane of the uterine walls. The maternal portion of the placenta consists of a large number of cells formed by an enlarge- ment of the vessels of the uterine wall, and conveying the uterine blood into close proximity to the villi of the foetal placenta, which dip into these cells. The interchange of fluids, necessary for the growth of the foetus, and for the depuration of the blood, takes place through the walls of these villi, but there is no direct continuity between the maternal and foetal vessels. The arteries open into the placental cells somewhat after the manner of the erectile tissue. The veins anastomose freely with one another, and give' rise, at the edge of the placenta, to a venous channel which runs around its whole circumference—the placental sinus. The umbilical cord appears about the end of the fifth month after preg- nancy. It consists of the coils of two arteries (umbilical) and a single vein, united together by a gelatinous mass (gelatin of Wharton) contained in the cells of an areolar structure. There are originally two umbilical veins, but one of these vessels becomes obliterated, as do also the two omphalomesenteric arteries and veins, and the duct of the umbilical vesicle, all of which are originally contained in the rudimentary cord. The permanent structures of the cord are therefore those furnished by the allantois. Growth of the Embryo.—The youngest human embryos which have been met with are two described by Dr. A. Thomson in the ' Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal,' 1839, and in his paper references to the other extant de- scriptions of early ova will be found. The ova in question were believed to be of the ages respectively of twelve to fourteen days, and about fifteen days.* The figures are here reproduced. The earliest ovum (fig. LXXXIII.) was At;h of an inch in diameter when freed from some adherent decidua. The chorion presented a slightly villous appearance, and consisted of only one layer of membrane. On opening it the umbilical vesicle and embryo were found not to fill its cavity completely. The embryo was a line in length, * For the data on which theae calculations are founded, the reader is referred to the original paper.