FOURTH VENTRICLE. 505 oblongata and pons. In the median line is seen the posterior median fissure, which becomes gradually obliterated above, and terminates below in the point of the calamus scriptori/us, formed by the convergence of the posterior pyramids. At this point is the orifice of a short canal terminating in a cul-de-sac, the remains of the canal which extends in foetal life through the centre of the cord. On each side of the median fissure are two slightly convex longitudinal eminences, the fasciculi teretes : they extend the entire length of the floor, being indistinct below and of a greyish colour, but well marked and whitish above. Each eminence consists of fibres derived from the lateral tract and restiform body, which ascend to the cerebrum. Opposite the crus cerebelli, on the outer side of the fasciculi teretes, is a small eminence of dark grey substance, which presents a bluish tint through the thin stratum covering it; this is called the locus ccericleus ; and a thin streak of the same colour continued up from this on either side of the fasciculi teretes, as far as the top of the ventricle, is called the tcenia violacea. The lower part of the floor of the ventricle is crossed by several white transverse lines, linece transversce; they emerge from the posterior median fissure; some enter the crus cerebelli, others enter the roots of origin of the auditory nerve, whilst some pass upwards and outwards on the floor of the ventricle. The lining membrane of the fourth ventricle is continuous with that of the third, through the aqueduct of Sylvius, and its cavity communicates below with the sub- arachnoid space of the brain and cord through an aperture in the layer of pia mater extending between the cerebellum and medulla oblongata. Laterally, this membrane is reflected outwards a short distance between the cerebellum and medulla. The choroid plexuses of the fourth ventricle are two in number ; they are delicate vascular fringes, which project into the ventricle on each side, passing from the point of the inferior vermiform process to the outer margin of the restiform bodies. The grey matter in the floor of the ventricle consists of a tolerably thick stratum, continuous below with the grey commissure of the cord, and extending up as high as the aqueduct of Sylvius; and, in addition, of some special deposits connected with the roots of origin of certain nerves. In the upper half of the ventricle is a projec- tion situated over the nucleus, from which the sixth and facial nerves take a common origin. In the lower half are three eminences on each side for the roots of origin of the eighth and ninth nerves.