NERVOUS SYSTEM. 492 lobes to the base of the brain. In its course, it forms a distinct bend, named the genu, and is then continued downwards and backwards to the base of the brain, where it is connected, through the lamina cinerea, with the tuber cinereum. The reflected portion of the corpus callosum is called the beak or rostrum, it becomes gradually narrower as it descends, and is attached by its lateral margins to the frontal lobes. At its termination the corpus callosum gives off two bundles of white substance, which, diverging from one another, pass backwards, across the anterior perforated space, to the entrance of the fissure of Sylvius. They are called the peduncles of the corpus callosum. Posteriorly, the corpus callosum forms a thick rounded fold, called the splenium or pad, which is free for a little distance, as it curves forwards, and is then continuous with the fornix. On its upper surface, its fibrous structure is very apparent to the naked eye, being collected into coarse transverse bundles. Along the middle line is a linear depression, the raphe, bounded laterally by two or ruore slightly elevated longitudinal bands, called the strice longitudinales or nerves of Lancisi; and, still more externally, other longitudinal stria? are seen, beneath the convolutions which rest on the corpus callosum. These are the strice longitudinales laterales. The under surface of the corpus callosum is continuous behind with the fornix, being separated from it in front by the septum lucidum, which forms a vertical partition between the two ventricles. On either side, the fibres of the corpus callosum penetrate into the substance of the hemispheres and connect together the anterior, middle, and part of the posterior lobes. It is the large number of fibres derived from the anterior and posterior lobes which explains the great thickness of the two extremities of this commissure. Au incision should now he made through the corpus callosum, on either side of the raphe, when two large irregular-shaped cavities will he exposed, which extend through a great part of the length of each hemisphere. These are the lateral ventricles. The lateral ventricles are serous cavities, formed by the upper part of the general ventricular space in the interior of the brain. They are lined by a thin diaphanous lining membrane, covered by nucleated epithelium (the ependyma), with cilia scattered here and there in patches. It is moistened by a serous fluid, which is some- times, even in health, secreted in considerable quantity. These cavities are two in number, one in each hemisphere, and they are separated from each other by a vertical septum, the septum lucidum. Each lateral ventricle consists of a central cavity, or body, and three smaller cavities or cornua, which extend from it in different directions. The anterior cornu curves forwards and outwards into the substance of the anterior lobe. The posterior cornu, called the digital cavity, curves backwards into the posterior lobe. The middle cornu descends into the middle lobe. The central cavity, or body of the lateral ventricle, is triangular in form. It is bounded, above, by the under surface of the corpus callosum, which forms the roof of the cavity. Internally, is a vertical partition, the septum lucidum, which separates it from the opposite ventricle, and connects the under surface of the corpus callosum with the fornix. Its floor is formed by the following parts enumer- ated in their order of position, from before backwards : the corpus striatum, totnia semicircularis, optic thalamus, choroid pilous, corpus fimbriatum, and fornix. The anterior cornu is triangular in form, passing outwards into the anterior lobe, and curving round the anterior extremity of the corpus striatum. It is bounded, above and in front, by the corpus callosum ; behind, by the corpus striatum. The posterior cornu, or digital cavity, curves backwards into the substance of the posterior lobe, its direction being backwards and outwards, and then inwards. On its floor is seen a longitudinal eminence, which is produced by the extension inwards of the calcarine sulcus ; this is called the hippocampus minor. Between the middle and posterior horns a smooth eminence is observed, which varies considerably in size in different subjects. It is called the eminentia collateralis. The corpus striatum has received its name from the striped appearance which its section presents, in consequence of diverging white fibres being mixed with the