OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 445 VEINS OF THE LOWER EXTREMITY. 250.—The Internal or Long Saphenous Vein and its Branches. J The veins of the lower extremity are subdivided, like those of the upper, into two sets, superficial and deep; the superficial veins being placed beneath the integu- ment, between the two layers of superficial fascia ; the deep veins accompanying the arteries, and form- ing the vense comites of those vessels. Both sets of veins are provided with valves, which are more numerous in the deep than in the superficial set. These valves are also more numerous in the lower than in the upper limb. The Superficial Veins of the lower extremity are the internal or long saphenous, and the external or short saphenous. On the dorsum of the foot is a venous arch, situ- ated in the superficial structures over the anterior extremities of the metatarsal bones. It has its con- vexity directed forwards and receives digital branches from the upper surface of the toes ; at its concavity it is joined by numerous small branches which form a plexus on the dorsum of the foot. The arch ter- minates internally in the long saphenous, externally in the short saphenous vein. The internal ovlowj saphenous vein (fig. 250) com- mences at the inner side of the arch on the dorsum of the foot 5 it ascends in front of the inner malleo- lus, and along the inner side of the leg, behind the inner margin of the tibia, accompanied by the inter- nal saphenous nerve. At the knee, it passes back- wards behind the inner condyle of the femur, ascends along the inside of the thigh, and, passing through the saphenous opening in the fascia lata, terminates in the femoral vein about an inch and a half below Poupart's ligament. This vein receives in its course cutaneous branches from the leg and thigh, and at the saphenous opening the superficial epigastric, superficial circumflex iliac, and external pudic veins. The veins from the inner and back part of the thigh frequently unite to form a large vessel, which enters the main trunk near the saph- enous opening; and sometimes those on the outer side of the thigh join to form a large branch ; so that occasionally three large veins are seen converging from different parts of the thigh towards the saph- enous opening. The internal saphenous vein com- municates in the foot with the internal plantar vein; in the leg, with the posterior tibial veins, by branches which perforate the tibial origin of the Soleus mus- cle, and also with the anterior tibial veins; at the knee, with the articular veins ; in the thigh, with the femoral vein by one or more branches. The valves in this vein vary from two to six in number ; they are more numerous in the thigh than in the leg. The external or short saphenous vein (fig. 251)