58o ORGANS OF SENSE. which form the glosso-epiglottic ligaments, and with the soft palate by means of the anterior pillars of the fauces. Its apex or tip, thin and narrow, is directed forwards against the inner surface of the lower incisor teeth. The under surface of the tongue is connected with the lower jaw by the Genio-hyo-glossi muscles ; from its sides, the mucous membrane is reflected to the inner surface of the gums ; and, in front, a distinct fold of that membrane, the frai?ium linguae, is formed beneath its under surface. The tip of the tongue, part of the under surface, its sides, and dorsum, are free. The dorsum of the tongue is convex, marked along the middle line by a raphe, which divides it into two symmetrical halves ; this raphe terminates behind, about half an inch from the base of the organ, a little in front of a deep mucous follicle, the foramen caecum. The anterior two-thirds of this surface are rough and covered -with papilla?; the posterior third is snroother, and covered by the projecting orifices of numerous muciparous glands. The mucous membrane invests the entire extent of the free surface of the tongue. On the under surface of the organ it is thin and smooth, and may be traced on either side of the froenum, through the ducts of the submaxillary glands; and between the sides of the tongue and the lower jaw, through the ducts of the sublingual glands. As it passes over the borders of the organ, it gradually assumes its papillary character. The mucous membrane of the tongue consists of structures analogous to those of the skin, namely, a cutis or corium, supporting numerous papillae, and covered, as well as the papilla;, with epithelium. The cutis is tough, but thinner and less dense than in most parts of the skin, and is composed of similar tissue. It contains the ramifications of the numerous vessels and nerves from which the papilhe are supplied, and affords insertion to all the intrinsic muscular fibres of the organ. The papilla? of the tongue are thickly distributed over the whole of its upper surface, giving to it its characteristic roughness. They are more prominent than those of the skin, standing out from the surface like the villi of the intestine. The principal varieties are the papillae maxima; (circumvallata;), papilla; media; (fuiaji- J'ormx's), and papilla' minima' (rmiira; or Jiliformes). The papillae maxima; (circumvallata?) are of large size, and vary from eight to ten in number'. They are situated at the back part of the dorsum of the tongue, near its base, forming a row on each side, which running backwards and inwards, meet in the middle line, like the two lines of the letter V inverted. Each papilla consists of a central flattened projection of mucous membrane from to TV of an inch wide, attached to the bottom of a cup-shaped depression of the mucous mem- brane ; the papilla is in shape like a truncated cone; the smaller end being directed downwards and attached to the tongue, the broader part or base projecting on the surface and being studded with numerous small papilla;, which, however, are covered by a smooth layer of the epithelium. The cup-shaped depression forms a kind of fossa round the papilla, having a circular margin of about the same elevation, covered with smaller papilla;. At the point of junction of the two rows of papilla; is the deep depression, ike foramen caecum, mentioned above. The papillce media; (fungiformes), more numerous than the preceding, are scattered irregularly and sparingly over the dorsum of the tongue ; but are found chiefly at its sides and apex. They are easily recognised, among the other papilla?, by their large size, rounded eminences, and deep red colour. They are narrow at their attachment to the tongue, but broad and rounded at their1 free extremities, and covered with secondary papilla;. Their epithelial investment is very thin. The papillae mvnvmce (conica?—filiformes), cover the anterior two-thirds of the dorsum of the tongue. They are very minute, more or less conical or filiform in shape, and arranged in lines corresponding in direction with the two rows of the papilla; circumvallata?; excepting at the apex of the organ, where their direction is transverse. They have projecting from their apices numerous filiform processes, or