520 CRANIAL NERVES. Its brandies of distribution are a filament to the Tensor tympani, and one to the Tensor palati. The former passes backwards, on the outer side of the Eustachian tube ; the latter arises from the ganglion, near the origin of the internal pterygoid nerve, and passes forwards. Submaxillary Ganglion. (Fig. 286.) The submaxillary ganglion is of small size, circular in form, and situated above the deep portion of the submaxillary gland, near the posterior border of the Mylo- hyoid muscle, being connected by filaments with the lower border of the gustatory nerve. Branches of communication. This ganglion is connected with the gustatory nerve by a few filaments which join it separately, at its fore and back part. It also receives a branch from the chorda tympani, by which it communicates with the facial; and communicates with the sympathetic by filaments from the nervi molles—-the sympa- thetic plexus around the facial artery. Branches of distribution. These are five or six in number; they arise from the lower part of the ganglion, and supply the mucous membrane of the mouth and Wharton's duct, some being lost in the submaxillary gland. According to Meckel a branch from this ganglion occasionally descends in front of the Hyo-glossus muscle, and, after joining with one from the hypoglossal, passes to the Genio-hyo-glossus muscle. Sixth Nerve. (Fig. 285.) The Sixth, or Abducens Nerve, supplies the External rectus muscle. Its appa- rent origin is by several filaments from the constricted part of the corpus pyramidale, close to the pons, or from the lower border of the pons itself. The deep origin of this nerve is from the grey substance of the fasciculus teres, on the floor of the fourth ventricle, from a nucleus common to it and a part of the facial nerve. The nerve pierces the dura mater on the basilar surface of the sphenoid bone, runs through a notch immediately below the posterior clinoid process, and enters the caveimous sinus. It passes forwards through the sinus, lying on the outer side of the internal carotid artery, where it is joined by several filaments from the carotid and cavernous plexus, by one from Meckel's ganglion (Bock), and another from the ophthalmic nerve. It enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, and lies above the ophthalmic vein, from which it is separated by a lamina of dura mater. It then passes between the two heads of the External rectus, and is distributed to that muscle on its ocular surface. The above-mentioned nerve, as well as the third, fourth, and the ophthalmic division of the fifth, as they pass to the orbit, bear a certain relation to each other in the cavernous sinus, at the sphenoidal fissure, and in the cavity of the orbit, which will be now described. In the cavernous sinus (fig. 243), the third, fourth, and ophthalmic division of the fifth, are placed in the dura mater of the outer wall of the sinus, in their nume- rical order, both from above downwards, and from within outwards. The sixth nerve lies at the outer side of the internal carotid artery. As these nerves pass forwards to the sphenoidal fissure, the third and fifth nerves become divided into branches, and the sixth approaches the. rest; so that their relative position becomes considerably changed. In the sphenoidal fissure, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic, lie upon the same plane, the former being most internal, the latter external; and they enter the cavity of the orbit above the muscles. The remain- ing nerves enter the orbit between the two heads of the External rectus. The superior division of the third is the highest of these; beneath this lies the nasal branch of the fifth; then the inferior division of the third; and the sixth lowest of all (fig. 289). In the orbit, the fourth, and the frontal and lachrymal divisions of the ophthalmic,