cxxx GENERAL ANATOMY. Summary of the changes which take place in the ovum, and of the manner in which the membranes of the embryo aire formed,:— In the ovary, the germinal vesicle disappears. In the Fallopian tube, the ovum comes in contact with the germinal fluid and is fecundated. It becomes coated with an albuminous secretion. Summary of changes a fter conception :— 1. Segmentation or cleavage of the yolk into a number of nucleated cells, ' vitelline spheres.' 2. Accumulation of fluid within the ovum, and arrangement of the vitelline spheres around the fluid on the internal surface of the vitelline membrane, forming a second membrane, the 'blastodermic membrane.' 3. Splitting of the blastodermic membrane into three layers, named from within outwards, the ' hypoblast,' the ' mesoblast,' and the ' epiblast.1 This is probably effected by the division of the blastodermic membrane primarily into two layers, the epiblast and the hypoblast, and the subsecpient cleavage of the hypoblast into mesoblast and hypoblast. 4. Agglomeration of cells and thicken- ing of the outer layer of the blastodermic membrane at one particular spot, forming an elongated oval-shaped area, called the ' germinal disc,' or ' area germinativa.' 5. In the centre of the area germina- tiva the appearance of a delicate line or furrow, running longitudinally, and called the ' primitive trace.' 6. The formation of the primitive trace into a distinct groove, caused by the heaping up of the cells on either side of it, so as to form a longitudinal ridge, called the ' lamina dorsalis.' 7. The increase and incurvation of these laminae dorsales until they meet behind, enclosing a canal, lined by epiblast. The canal is the spinal canal; from the epiblast which lines it is developed the nervous centres. 8. The dilatation of the cephalic extremity of the canal, and its con- striction in places, thus dividing it imperfectly into three chambers, in which the different parts of the brain are developed. 9. The formation in the mesoblast immediately under this canal of a continuous rod-shaped body, the ' corda dorsalis,' or ' notochord.' 10. The formation on either side of the notochord of a substance divided into a number of square segments, the ' protovertebrre.' 11. The splitting of the mesoblast external to the protovertebra? into two layers. The outermost is called ' somatopleure,' and is lined externally by the epiblast; the innermost is called the splanclmopleure, and is lined internally by the hypoblast. Between the two is a space which forms the common pleuro-peritoneal cavity. 12. The curving of the embryo on itself both longitudinally and laterally, so as to be comparable to a canoe turned over ; the walls being formed Fig. LXXXVI.—Human embryo in the fourth, week. (5 12 1. Amnion removed in part of the dorsal region. 2. Umbilical vesicle. 3. Omphalomesenteric duct. 4. Inferior maxillary tubercle of first pharyngeal arch. 5. Superior maxillary tubercle from the same arch. 6. Second pharyngeal arch. 7. Third. 8. Fourth. 9. Eye. 10. Primi- tive auditory vesicle, n. Anterior extremity. 12 Posterior extremity. 13. Umbilical cord. 14. Heart. 15. Liver.