THE VAGINA, 755 Rectum. The rectum is more capacious and less curved in the female than in the male. The Jirst portion extends from the left sacro-iliac symphysis to the middle of the sacrum. Its connections are similar to those in the male. The second portion extends to the tip of the coccyx. It is covered in front by the peritoneum, but only for a short distance, at its upper part: it is in relation with the posterior wall of the vagina. The third portion curves backwards from the vagina to the anus, leaving a space which corresponds on the surface of the body to the perinajum. Its extremity is surrounded by the Sphincter muscles, and its sides are supported by the Levatores ani. The Vagina. The vagina is a membranous canal, extending from the vulva to the uterus. It is situated in the cavity of the pelvis, behind the bladder, and in front of the rectum. Its direction is curved forwards and downwards, following at first the line of the axis of the cavity of the pelvis, and afterwards that of the outlet. It is cylindrical in shape, flattened from before backwards, and its walls are ordinarily in contact with each other. Its length is about four inches along its anterior walls and between five and six inches along its posterior wall. It is constricted at its commencement, and becomes dilated near its uterine extremity ; it surrounds the vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, a short distance from the os, and its attachment extends higher up on the posterior than on the anterior wall of the uterus. Relations.—Its anterior surface is in relation with the base of the bladder, and with the urethra. Its posterior surface is connected to the anterior wall of the rectum, for the lower three-fourths of its extent, the upper fourth being separated from that tube by the recto-uterine fold of peritoneum, which forms a cul-de-sac between the vagina and rectum. Its sides give attachment superiorly to the broad ligaments, and inferiorly to the Levatores ani muscles and recto-vesical fascia. Structure.—The vagina consists of an internal mucous lining, of a muscular coat, and an external layer of erectile tissue. The mucous membrane is continuous above with that lining the uterus, and below, with the integument covering the labia majora. Its inner surface presents, along the anterior and posterior walls, a longitudinal ridge or raphe, called the columns of the vagina, and numerous transverse ridges or rugae, extending outwards from the raphe on either side. These rugae are divided by furrows of variable depth, giving to the mucous membrane the appearance of being studded over with conical projec- tions or papillae ; they are most numerous near the orifice of the vagina, especially in females before pai'turition. The epithelium covering the mucous membrane is of the squamous variety. The submucous tissue is very loose, and contains numerous large veins, which by their anastomoses form a plexus, together with smooth mus- cular fibres derived from the muscular coat; it is regarded by Gussenbauer as an erectile tissue. The muscular coat consists of two layers ; an internal longitudinal, which is far the stronger, and an external circular layer. The longitudinal fibres are continuous with the superficial muscular fibres of the uterus. The strongest fasciculi are those attached to the recto-vesical fascia on each side. The two layers are not distinctly separable from each other, but are connected by oblique decussating fasciculi which pass from the one layer to the other. The erectile tissue consists of a layer of loose connective tissue ; embedded in it is a plexus of large veins, and numerous bundles of unstriped muscular fibres, derived from the circular muscular layer. The arrangement of the veins is similar to that found in other erectile tissues. 3 c 2