\.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b21934630C/ MEDICAL and SURGICAL OBSE RVAT IONS. r B Y AUG. GOTTLIEB RICHTER, M. D. PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE IN THE UNIVERSITY OF GOETTINGEN, &C. &C. TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN. EDINBURGH: PRINTED FOR T. DUNCAN, AND G. G. & J. ROBINSONS, LONDON, M., DC.C, XCIV.TO THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF PHYSICIANS OF EDINBURGH, TO WHOM THE ORIGINAL HAS BEEN DEDICATED, BY THE CELEBRATED RICHTER, THIS TRANSLATION IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBE!) BY THEIR HUMBLE SERVANT AND FELLOW MEMBER, THOMAS SPEWS.4 I / • • ' - 'TRANSLATORS PREFACE. 1 here is nothing that more eminently raifes mankind, or gives them a greater ad- vantage over the lower animals, than the power which they pofiefs of collecting the difcoveries, and improving on the experi- ence both of their predeceflors, and of thofe who are coeval with themfelves. This lays the foundation of their progreflive improve- ment from rudenefs to refinement in the va- rious branches of phyfics, of morals, legifia- tion, and politics ; and in all the arts, which contribute to the embellifhment and comfort of fociety. A 3 InVi TRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. Ia order to avail ourfelves moft effectual- ly of the knowledge and difcoveries of our own times, and to collect into one focus the rays of fcience fcattered over diftant regions of the learned world, it fhould feem to be an objeCt much to be defired, that men were appointed, whofe province it fhould be to tranflate into their own language, and to communicate to the public, whatever is done in other countries, towards the improvement of that department of fcience, to which they more immediately belong. it it be important in general fcience that new obfervations be thus quickly made known, much more interefting mull it be that we fhould watch over the fcience of phyfic with peculiar care, that not a mo- ment be loft in availing ourfelves of new" obfervations, which may enable us to fave theTRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. • • va the lives, or preferve the health of our friends and fellow citizens. The whole fcience of medicine is founded on obfervation, the ground-work of which was laid by the diligence of the ancients, but which the indultry of modern phyiicians is daily called forth to work upon and im- prove, as the fcience is hill in a very im- pel fedl hate, and as new difeales or new modifications of difeafes feem to arife with every fucceeding generation of men, ac- cording as their manners, occupations, plea- fures or luxbries change. It muh likewife be very interehing to the medical gentlemen in this country to be acquainted with the hate of their pro- lehion in one of the moh celebrated univer- fities abroad. Onvm TRANSLATOR’s PREFACE. • » • On theie general grounds, joined to the confideration of the original language not being much known—perhaps too little culti- vated by men of learning in Britain, the tranflator prefents to the Englifh reader this collection of obfervations, which was pub- lifhed laft year by one of the mod; eminent phyficians on the Continent of Europe. The tranflator’s approbation or rejection of the author’s doCtrines can be of little im- portance either to the author or to the world. Yet it might look like ignorance or careleffnefs not to warn his reader, that the learned profeflor hill retains many doCtrines, which have been long fince exploded in this country. In every page, however, he thews himfelf an attentive olSferver, and a man of fenfe. His intimate acquaintance with all the learning of the ancients is too well feen, llncc it often confounds his own purer no- tionsTRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. is tions and gives a bias to his judgment. But while he has thus ftudied the ancients, he has not neglected modern authors. And it cannot fail to be highly flattering to the phyficians of this country, and a compli- ment peculiarly pleafmg to the many judi- cious practitioners, who contribute from all parts of this kingdom, to the periodical pub- lications now fo much eftcemed, to obferve how carefully this diftinguifhed phylician has ftudied every detached paper of theirs, how often and how fuccefsfully he has tried the medicines which they recommend, and how much he values their knowledge and refpects their opinions. The tranflator has no doubt but this compliment will be mu- tual, that his countrymen will, in return, read the accounts of his author’s practice, ftu- dy his obfervations,give a fair trial to the dif- ferent modes of cure which he propofcs, and that they will have the candour to overlook thofeTRANSLATOR’S PREFACE. X thofe firegularities in dodtrine, which ard lefs to be imputed to the illuftrious author, thun to the country in which he lives. The tranflator has thought it his duty to adhere, in moft cafes, to the precife terms in which the author delivers himfelf, from the perfuafion that plain language and a faithful interpretation are the chief qualifications ne~ ceffary for the talk he has undertaken. EDINBURGH, j Ai'rjl, 1794. AUTHOR'SAUTHOR’S PREFACE. ri aving for twelve years fuperintended and directed the public hofpital of this place, I here lay before my readers a few of thofe obfervations I have had occafion to make, chiefly in the hofpital, fometimes in private practice, always at the bedfide of the patient: and I prefent to my readers not merely what I have feen, but likewife what I have thought ; they will therefore fee not my patients only but myfelf alfo. I hope my readers will forgive me for not always mentioning whether my patients be of a melancholic, fanguine, or phlegma- ticAUTHOR’S PREFACE. XU The tic, temperament. I deliver what is eften- tial only, for nothing, in my opinion, is more tirefome and prolix than a dry hiftory of a cafe, copied from the daily regifters, with a number of trilling circumftances of no im- portance whatever. I have related minutely the hiftory of one cafe only. It is one in the chapter on drop- fy, where every occurrence feemed to me of value, and yet I fear the importance of thefe circumftances will not fupport the patience of my readers through the whole detail. There are many to whom it were in vain to prefent a picture, unlefs one ex- plained at the fame time what was chiefly to be obferved in it ; and it is for a reafon or the fame kind, that I have added my own remarks and opinions to the hiftory of each cafe.xm AUTHOR’S PREFACE. The hidories of the difeafes are faithful. The cafes which I relate have mod of them happened under the eyes of many of my pupils and others. I mud be believed in all that relates to fa£ts. With regard to the reafonings upon thefe fa<ds, every one will judge for himfelf. It is not to be expected that all fhould think alike. I have carefully avoided general maxims, and have feldom afferted any thing with cer- tainty in all cafes. What attentive practical phylician is there who has not found his theoreticaldru(dure, which he had built upon twenty-nine indances, totally overturned by the thirtieth cafe ? In no fcience do felf- fufficiency, or bold and general affertions and decided axioms more certainly mark ignorance and want of experience, than in the fcience of phyfic. Seldom,AUTHOR’S PREFACE. xiv #• Seldom, if ever, can any general conclu- fiotis be drawn from a few cafes, and com- paratively fpeaking one man can fee but a few. Seldom does the fame difeafe con- ftantly put on the fame appearance : the caufe, the courfe, and the nature, of every difeafe vary fo much, that though the dif- eafe be hill the fame, another may have de- livered a hiftory differing widely from that which I give, and yet both of us be right. This is the more likely to happen, as the names given to difeafes are very arbitrary and undefined, for the fame names are given to difeafes which arife occafionally from ve- ry different caufes, and confequently too of- ten denote difeafes effentially different from each other. Befides, there is no fcience, in which one m may more eafily difpute, than in medicine. We need only appeal to experience, and if wetv AUTHOR’S PREFACE. we wifli to ftrengthen the proof, to fre- quently repeated experience ; a kind of evi- dence which an opponent cannot examine, and if he does notchoofe to be uncivil, dare not refufe. There are only fifteen beds in the public hofpital of this place, and I do not wifh for more. I have permiffion, and the opportu- nity, to choofe my patients, and of courfe I make choice of fuch cafes as promife to be more particularly important and instructive. Indeed I do not think that the experienc- ed practitioner is formed by the number of patients. Experience is the refult not of feeing merely, but of reflecting. It is not eating alone, but digeftion that gives ftrength. A phyhcian, who tells us that he vifits an hundred and fifty and even a greater num- ber of lick people daily, has, in my opinion, foAUTHOR’S PREFACE. XVI fo little pretenfions to the title of an experi- enced pra&itioner, that I would even deny he had any experience at all. Truely, na- ture is not fo complaifant that fhe will un- veil herfelf at once to whoever merely cafts his eyes upon her. * In our hofpital, all important cafes, whether medical or furgical, find ready accefs, and are attended to with moil particular care. , # The hofpital in itfelf is, I may affirm, re- markable for cleanlinefs, and order, and I flatter myjelf it is one of the molt ufeful in- ftitutions at this univerfity. i GOETTINGEN, 1 1 7 9 3. 3 CONTENTS.CONTENTS. CHAP. r. Of Difeafes of the Breafls, Page i CHAP II. Of the Jaundice, 55 CHAP. III. OJ' the Fluxus ccellacus, 74 CHAP. IV. Of Diabetes, - 8 r CHAP V. Of the Dyfentery, 92 CHAP. VI. 0/" vomiting of Blood, JI7 CHAP. VII. Of Hydrocele, - 128 CHAP. VIII. 0/ Epilepfy, 140 b C H A P.CONTENTS. XV111 chap. ix. Of the Flux us hepaticus, - Page 155 CHAP. X. Of the Fijlulci lachrymalis, - 161 CHAP. XT. Of the Ifchias nervofa, - 169 CHAP. XII. An Ulceration of the Tongue, - 178 CHAP. XIII. A Cafe of Entropium, r - 181 CHAP XIV. A Cafe of Anginapharyngcafuppuratoria, 184 CHAP. xv. Of Acid in the Stomach, - - 187 CHAP. XVI. Of Petechia? •without Fever, - 192 C H A F. XVII. Of bilious Fevers, - - 196 CHAP. XV'II. Of Amputation of the Thigh, - 247x;r CONTENTS. C H A p. XX. Of the Gutta ferena, chap. xx. Of mucous Confumption, CHAP. XXI. A Cafe of imperforated Vaginav CHAP XXII. Of Hydrops vagus, CHAP. XXIII. A Cafe cf ulcerated Bubo, CHAP. XXIV. A Cafe of Steatom in the Hand, CHAP. xxv. A Cafe of Fungus Articuli, Page 254 263 277 285 323 326 331 MEDICAI.MEDICAL and SURGICAL OBSERVATIONS, CHAP. I. OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. I THINK it will appear from the two following cafes how difficult it is to diftinguifh carcinoma- tous from other kinds of tumours of the breads, how probable it is that people often believe that they have extirpated cancers, when they have only removed a tumour of a benign nature, and how it comes to pafs that fome boldly affirm that a cancer of the bread may be iucceisfully extirpated, while others, (Hill, Monro) fay that this attempt is very feldom fuccefsful. B OBSER-OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS 2 OBSERVATION I. A woman of 30 years of age, with rather a pale complexion, but in other refpe&s healthy, came to me by the advice of her phyfician, who had informed me, that fhe had an occult cancer in her breall which required imme- diate extirpation. The tumour in the breaft was as big as a large hen’s egg. The patient told me that it was en- tirely fpontaneous, that fhe had had it for three • years, that it had always been quite hard, but perfectly free from pain, that it had increafed quickly the firR year, having in that time attained the half of its prefent fize, that it had afterwards continued to increafe, but flowly, that it had be- gun to be painful about a month ago, and that every phyfician, whofe advice fine had afked, had declared it to be an occult cancer. The whole lump was painful to the touch, and quite furrounded with varicofe veins. The fkin above it was of a dark red colour, and a little3 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. little inflamed. The pulfe indeed was not fe- verilli, but fomewhat quick and tenfe. The whole therefore had pretty much the appearance of an occult cancer. However I put the operation off, as the pain was general throughout the lump, not very vio- lent, and neither burning nor lancinating, and the pulfe was a little irritated ; but chiefly from an obfcure fluctuation, which I thought I felt at one point. I caufed emollient poultices to be applied. The very fir It evening I evidently obferved fome degree of fever, which confirmed me in the idea, that the {'welling was not of a cancerous na- ture. I was perfectly convinced of this the third day, for the fluctuation increafed, and bee ame quite diftinCt. The pains were altogether trifling. I now confidered it as a fcrofulous tumour, which had gone into an indolent tedious fuppura- lion, in which I was confirmed by fome other general appearances and fymptoms. I made B 2 warmer4 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. warmer and more irritating poultices be applied, to promote the fuppuration, ancl intended not to open it till all hardnefs was quite gone, and till the fluctuation was general in the whole fwelling. This happened in the third week. Upon o- pening it, a quantity of granulated pus flowed out, and nothing more either of fwelling or hard- nefs was to be felt. It healed in twelve days without any one occurrence worth mentioning. Indeed when the patient came to me, the tu- mour had fuch an appearance, that it might well have been taken for an occult cancer. But the principal fymptoms of the occult malignity, its being near breaking out without fenfible fluctua- tion, and its being very painful without fever or inflammation, were wanting. When I do not meet with thefe two fymptoms I always have great hopes. The tumour was undoubtedly fcrofulous. But it might have been made to afiume a ba*d and cancerous5 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. cancerous, appearance, if it had been opened too early, that is -before all hardnefs had been dilfolv- ed, and before the whole lump had gone into fup- puratiou. Thefe indurations do not at all admit of being opened early. The hardnefs which re- mains after opening fuch tumours often conti- nues with the greatefl obftinacy, the matter be- comes bad, and the ulcer becomes malignant and tedious ; befides the opening may fafely be delayed, for the matter is of fo indolent a nature, that there is nothing to be apprehended from it. It is alfo very advifable to evacuate the matter by a fmall opening. The cavity of thefe abfcefles does not bear the admiflion of air. The following obfervation Ihews, that there is a difeafe which may be taken for a fchirrus in the bread; and treated as fuch, which does not in the fmalleft degree partake of that nature. B 3 OBSERV.OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 6 OBSERV. II. A lady of 40 years of age came to me, and diewed me an indurated tumour in her bread, which Hie wifhed to have cut out. It was not at all painful, was of the fize of a fm.all walnut, was hard and equal, pretty immovable, and lay rather deep in the fub.dance of the bread, juft about an inch and a half above the nipple. The patient, who in other refpects was in per- fect health, told me that die had had the lump about five months; that for awhile after its firlt appearance it had increafed, and had gradually grown harder, but that for three months paft it had remained the fame as it now was. She had been about eight months before deli- vered eafdy ol a child, which die did not fuckle. The milk went away in eight days after deliv- ery, without having caufed her much uneafl- nefs. She repeatedly allured me, that the lump had not been occafioned by lying-in, that upon recovery her bread was perfectly well, and that the1 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. B 4 But the lamp had firft made its appearance fomc weeks after. I determined upon cutting out the tumour, but previoufly defired the patient to remain quiet for a few clays, and to observe a proper regimen. However on the evening before the day appointed for the operation, as I once more examined the lump, which was pretty deep and firm, and while (chiefly with the intention of trying its mobility) I griped it on both fides deep and firmly, it vanilhed fuddenly from my fingers, and a yellowifli thick milk flowed from the nipple. This was really a milk tumour, which I and o- thers had taken for a true fchirrus, and it is remar- kable, that although it felt hard and folid, it was occafioned by fluid milk, and it had not begun to gather till about eight weeks after delivery, after the milk had been long gone from the breaft, and when we fliould have thought that nature mull; have long forgotten all tendency to fecrete milk.8 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. But I have obfervecl in feveral cafes that nature does not fo foon forget her tendency to fecrete milk, that fometimes the fecretion of milk conti- % nues for a long while fecretly and unobferved, and that it can again return after having entirely ceafed for a time. OBSERV. III. A woman fix weeks after hav- ing weaned her child, was attacked with a very ob- ftinate chronic ophthalmia. To cure her of this ophthalmia hie was advifed to put the child again to the breah, which hie did in the eleventh week. The milk returned, and in fuch quantity, that hie fuckled the child for feveral months, and the ophthalmia difappeared. From fome cafes I am alfo inclined to believe, that the internal ufc of the Peruvian bark may con- tribute fomething to rehore the fecretion of milk, after it had ceafed for a long while. I hiall men- tion one of them. OBSERV.OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 9 OBSERV. IV. A lady of 27 years of age, who gave her child to a nurfe immediately after birth, and who after delivery, eafdy and without any inconvenience flopt the fecretion of milk, alked me, after hie was perfectly recovered, for fome ftrengthening medicine, as hie felt herfelf rather weak, and wifhed to make a journey. I prefcribed the bark. She fet out upon her jour- ney at the beginning of the ninth week. At the end of the tenth hie returned with a confiderable milky lump, which was inflamed, and afterwards fuppurated. I advife every practitioner at leaft to be atten- tive to the breahs, when he gives bark to a lying- in woman who does not nurfe her child. Women who do not fuckle their children, and who hop the fecretion of milk immediately after delivery,frequently after this hopping of the milk is completely and happily accomplihied, hill retain forXO OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS, for a long time a flight difcharge of a milky fluid from the nipples, which is often not at all obferved, j or only taken notice of from (tains upon the fhift. As long as this oozing out continues, and it fre- quently continues long, they are never out of danger of this milk tumour. * Milk tumours which happen during the firft days of lying-in are not eafily mi (taken. But thofe which take place at a later period are fre- quently miftaken, and very improperly treat- ed. However hard a milk tumour may feel,, yet we cannot always be fure, that it is occafion- ed by a thickened coagulated milk, The cafe juft mentioned proves this. External folvent deobflruent medicines, which people generally employ, are often therefore lefs effectual in dif- cufling fuch a tumour, than emollient fedative medicines, and frequent rubbing and fucking the ibreahs. MilkII OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. r When milk tumours and indurations fuppu- rate, they often occafion obilinate and painful ul- cers, which not unfrequently acquire a truly bad appearance. There the furgeon is generally to blame by opening the abfcefs too foon, and mak- ing his opening too large. I make it a rule ne- ver to open it till the whole lump be melted by the fuppuration, till it be foft throughout, and has difcovered fluctuation, and always to make the opening finally and I can affirm, that by obferv- ing thefe rules in a number of cafes of this kind which have occurred, difficulties in healing the abfcefs have not happened to me in a fingle in- stance. In molt cafes it healed in a few days. Yet it not unfrequently happens, that the wound after fome time does not at all difcharge any pus, but only a milky fluid, which changes the, ulcer into a true milky liflula. In this cafe the heal- ing is fometimesfor a little retarded ; it generally however12 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. however foon heals, when the patient is put upon a rpare diet, and is directed to comprefs her breaft a little. However late milk lumps and indurations may happen, milk metallafes fometimes happen as late ; and thefe late milk metallafes are alfo frequently % miftaken. Although it is not here the place to fpeak of thefe at length, I fhall mention in a few words a fingular eafe of metaftafis which I had occahon to obferve. ✓ OBSERV. V. The milk of a woman went fud- denly away nine days after delivery,in confequence of a violent fright, foon after which file was feized with moll fevere headachs, efpecially in the lower part of the forehead. Various kinds of medicines -were tried in vain. The pains continued for a long time without interruption. At laft an eva- cuation of a milky fluid appeared very unexpec- tedly at the nofe, and from this time forth the . painsOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. *3 pains difappeared, and file felt herfelf well, only flie had at times a flow of mucus refembling pus from the nofe, which was always accompanied with fome headach. It appears even that abfcefles from milk may fometimes happen in the breads of men. OBSERV. VI. A young country man of 16 years of age, came into the hofpital on account of a fwelling in his bread. The fwelling occupied the whole region of the left bread, was not very pro- minent, but its circumference was as large as that of a final 1 plate. It was not painful, only •when it was flrongly prefled the patient felt fome pain at the bottom of it. Fluctuation was evi- dent. The fkin was not at all difcoloured. No particular caufe could be affigned for the fwel- ling, which had taken place altogether fpontane- oufly. It14 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. It was lingular with regard to it, that a promt* nent rim was felt round the whole external cir- cumference, fo that it feemed as if the whole place upon which the fwelling relied, and in which fluc- tuation was felt, lay in a concavity. His breath- ing was natural, and the patient was in other re- flects perfectly well and free from fever* I made an incifion into the lower part of it, where the fluctuation was moll fenfibly felt. A great quantity of fluid came out, which had exact- ly the appearance of ferum lad is full of cheefy particles, but was without fmell, and without any obfervable acrimony. Not the fmallelt purulency was to be feen in it. During the cure, which was aflilted by ex- ternal compreflion, nothing particular happened, and after it the young man found himfelf quite well. Was this really milk ? and was this fecretion of milk an efleCl of puberty ? I fawOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. *5 I favv in the hofpital one other cafe of this kind, which I could afcribe nearly to a fimilar caufe. OBSERV. VII. A country boy of 15 years of age, the perfect pidture of health, and from the / moll attentive examination without any fault in his conllitution, fweated blood from the region of the pudenda in confiderable quantity. Not a trace of the fource of the blood could any where be found ; the Ik in was there perfectly found. The- dens arquebufaide water externally applied flopped the flow. I examined the patient fourteen days af- ter, and he was very well. The following cafe has perhaps fame analogy with the above. OBSERV. VIII. A lively healthy woman with a good appetite and digellion, now 60 years of age, ufed formerly to obferve at the time of her men- fes, a hemorrhage from the mammae. She had 1 never had children. After the cefiation of the meflrualOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. i6 menftrual flux, the hemorrhage from the breafts ilill continued for a time, only it did not appear fo regularly at certain periods as before. It at laft went totally away, when a hard fwel- ling perfedUy void of pain appeared in her left breaft, which gradually increafed to the fize of the fill. This fwelling continued with her for fe- veral years without further, inconvenience. * But at laft another phenomenon made its ap- pearance without any particular caufe. The whole breaft began to fwell, and finally increafed to a great fize. It did not feel hard, but elaftic, and equally fo in every part. Fluctuation was no where to be felt'; with regard to fchirrus, of which I had been fo much afraid, I was now per- fectly at eafe. Neither was the breaft upon the whole painful. At laft a place at the fide of the nipple became very prominent, tenfe and red, which however was not in the leaft painful, and after a while threatenedOF'DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 1/ threatened to burfl. As I felt an evident flu filia- tion, and forefaw that it would very foon burft of itfelf, I opened it with a lancet. To my great aftonifhment not a drop of purulent matter ap- peared, but only a great quantity of blood, partly coagulated, partly fluid, partly black, and partly pure red. As on account of the great quantity of blood, fome of which was apparently frefh, the great age of the patient, and the furprife occafioned by the unexpected fight of the blood, I had reafon to fear a fyncope, and great debility, I ftopt the difcharge, and covered the wound. For lour days I removed the bandage twice a day, and each time a quantity of blood of the above defcription iffueci out. After this the dif- charge changed to a reddifh watery ichor. The preternatural fwelling of the bread was now gone. The fchirrus had remained unchanged during this whole procefs. G TheOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. i8 The ichorous difcharge continued for fix weeks, but at laft it became more purulent; and the fchirrus gradually leflened, till at the end of that time it was entirely gone. The abfcefs then gradually contracted, and at laft turned into a fmall, narrow, fhallow fiftula, which remained open many years, indeed as long as the patient lived. It generally difcharged only a fmall quantity of ichorous fluid, but fometimes a confiderable quantity of pure blood. As the woman with this difcharge felt herfelf otherwife well, and as I was afraid that an eva- cuation to which the patient had been accuflomed for fo many years could not be ftopt without dan- ger, I had not the courage to attempt any thing decifive in order to obtain a complete cure. I have cut out of the breafts various painful tumours which had all the properties of real oc- cult cancers, with lafting fuccefs. I fhall19 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. I {hall circumflantially relate one cafe of this kind,becaufe it appears to me particularly worthy of notice, and becaufe I continued to receive frequent accounts of the patient for feveral years after the operation, and therefore can anfwer for its having made a permanent cure. OBSERV. IX. A lady of 28 years of age, who had never had children, came from a very ccnfi- derable diftance to confult me on account of two 1, hard tumours in her breads. She had had thefe tumours for fix years — They had increafed only during the firft year, af- ter which they had remained unchanged till about fix months before {he came to me. They had come on altogether fpontaneoufly, neither could I difcover any thing in her habit to account for them, for die was in other refpe&s in perfect health. There was an indurated tumour in each bread, C 2 ofOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS, 20 of the fize of a very large hen’s egg. She had felt burning pains in thefe tumours for half a year pa ft. The pains had been extremely violent and cor.ftant for fome weeks, and on her journey to this place they had been fo intolerable, that {he could only travel two (German) miles a day, and arrived here very ;nuch debilitated. On her arrival I found her without fever, with a fmall, tenfe pulfe. The tumours were furrouiuk ed with varicofe veins. On each tumour was a part fome what prominent, on which the {kin was thin, fhining, and of a dark red colour, but there was not the {mailed veflige of fluctuation to be felt. I performed the operation on both breads, and not only extirpated the indurated tumour, but at the fame time removed the greater part of the glandular fubdance of the bread on both fides. The patient felt herfelf pretty well the fir ft day after the operation, excepting a little pain, reftlelT- nefs and fever. The fourth day I was not a little embarrafted21 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS; embarraffed upon accidentally difcovering an indu* rated gland in the arm-pit, which I had overlook- ed before the operation, and the more fo as the patient told me at the fame time, that die had ob- ferved that lump for a confiderable while, and that it was a little painful. I however concealed my embarrafiment, (though it was not frnall,) that I might not alarm the patient. \ Suppuration appeared on the fifth day. On the eight day both wounds were in the fin eft ftate of Suppuration, and the patient was quite free of fe- ver. On the morning of the ninth day I fuddenly found a great and unexpected change in the wounds. They were both dry, emitted a peculiar kind of fmell, were painful, and appeared inflamed. Befides there was in the wound in the left bread a fwelling which had the flrape and lize of a hen’s egg cut longitudinally. The pulfe was at the fame time a little feverifh. But my uneafinefs was not of long continuance. The menfes appear- C 3 ed*22 OF DISEASES OF THE EREASTS. ed towards evening, and next day the wounds i- gain began to difcharge pus, and all preternatural fweiling difappeared. The wounds healed perfectly in five weeks, without any bad fytrptotn. But what is moll remarkable, the lump in the arm-pit had during the fuppuration entirely vanifhed. I have fince heard of the patient feveral times, and now, nine years fince the operation, I know that fhe is iiv perfect health. From all the fymptoms thefe two indurated tu- mours merited the name of occult cancers. And on cutting into them after the operation, I found them very hard, and as if interwoven with flelhy threads, and interfperfed with cartilaginous parti- cles. They had been painful about half a year. They appeared even as ii they would foon break out. The pains were of the moll fufpicious kind, burning and lancinating, conllant and very vio- lent. Moreover one of the glands in the axilla was fwelled. There was a tumour in both breaks, whichOF DISEASES OE THE BREASTS. 23 which had taken place in both without any exter- nal caufe, and in ihort there was every fymptom of malignity, fo that the hopes of a fuccefsful ope- ration were greatly diminifhed. And yet this ope- ration fucceeded ; a proof that in occult cancer we may undertake the operation with hope of a happy ilfue, and a refutation of the idea of there being fuch a difeafe as that called Noli me tangere, at lead at this period, before the tumour breaks out. The indurated glands in the axilla are not fo much to be dreaded as is generally believed. They appear, like venerealbuboes,lometimesto arife from lympathy, and at lead do not always contraindicate the operation. In the above cafe they difappear- ed gradually after the operation. I fhall by and by relate a fimilar cafe. In the Chirurgifche Biblioth. Vol. IX. p. 417, another fuch cafe is re- lated. I have even feen thefe {weldings of the axil- lary glands alternately come on and difappear. The hidden change of the wounds on the ninth, day evidently proceeded from the near approach C 4 ofOF DISEASES OP THE BREASTS'. 2 4 «*f the menftrual flux. It is therefore always acF vifable,fo to choofe the time for the operation, that the monthly period may not foon follow. • It was fmgular that in neither tumour, though they had been of fuch long duration and fo very painful, and appeared to be fo near breaking out, was there the leall veftige of any ulceration to be found. It is therefore probable that the occult cancer is frequently to be aferibed to a kind of carcinomatous inflammation,., and that the ufe of leeches, which Fearon (Chirurg. Biblioth. Vol. X. p. 415.) ro much recommends, really deferves fomc confidence. At any rate this cafe eflablifhes a conficlerable degree of hope of fuccefs in the ope. ration for the occult cancer. In feveral painful fchirri I have not found the fm all eft trace of ulceration, and on the contrary I have found ulceration in perfectly indolent and fa- vourable fchirri. I have alfo fometimes found ulce- rated cavities where 1 did not fufpe&them. I cannot fay that I like to find any fuch appearance after theOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. T t* die operation, but I know alfo from experience that I may very fafely affirm, that Inch an ulcera- tion does not always forebode an unfuccefsful ope- ration. • OBSERV. X. Three years ago I cut out of the left break of an unmarried woman of 30 years • of age, a tumour which was indurated but not painful, in the middle of which I found two ulce- rated cavities, the one of the fize of a pea, the other of the fize of a hazel-nut, which were filled with a dark brown ichor. The cure went on with- out difficulty, and the patient continues kill well, I have laid it down as a rule, when the fchirrus of the break is not of very confiderable fize, al- ways to remove the whole glandular fubkance of the break, never the fchimis alone. My reafons for this are the following. With regard'to the pain of operation I think there is no great difference. I even believe that it l26 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. it is more painful to extirpate a large fchirrus a- lone carefully and neatly, if at the fame time it is firmly fixed in the fub(lance of the bread, than to take out the whole glandular fubllance of the bread along with the fchirrus. What remains of the fubllance of the bread af- ter the extirpation of a confiderable fchirrus, is of no ufe to the patient. The bread is generally unfit for fuckling a child. After the operation it feems commonly as if divided into two parts, and is fo deformed that it cannot even flatter the vanity of the patient to retain it. When the whole glandular fubdance of the bread has been removed, the wound clofes more conve- niently, and heals more eafily per reunionem than 9 when the fchirrus alone is carefully cut away from the glandular part. In the latter cafe the wound is generally uneven, and it is rarely poflible to ap- proach the two furfaces properly to one another, and to retain them in that pofition. But /OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 27 Biit above all I believe that the recurrence of the difeafe after the operation is not fo much to be dreaded when the whole bread; is taken out, as when the indurated lump alone is extirpated. I am convinced that the unhappy iffue of the opera- tion is frequently owing to nothing but folely the fparing of the bread too much. I have very of- ten, when in fuch a cafe 1 had removed the whole glandular fubdance of the bread, found it uncom- monly firm, and interfperfed with tendinous and cartilaginous fibres and granules, though before the operation nothing preternatural had been felt in it, except the indurated lump. Indeed the glandular fubdance of the bread is often difeafed, though it cannot be felt externally, efpecially when it is covered with much fat ; and hence it is always mod fecure to remove it in fuch cafes entirely, fince it can be of no ufe after the operation. ThoughOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS, 28 the Tuoupn the hemorrhage in the extirpation of - the breafl is for the 1110ft part flight and eafily flopped by preflure, I have however made it a rule for fome time pall, always to tie up the bleeding veflels. Often the hemorrhage returns fome hours after the operation, apparently from this caufe chiefly., that the movement of the ribs difplaces the punc- tum comprcjjionis. The furgeon is therefore under the neceflity of drawing the bandage tighter to in.- create the preffure, which is very inconvenient and painful to the patient, or he is obliged to take off the bandage repeatedly, and to apply his compref- fes anew, or employ other means for flopping the blood, by which the intention of a fpeedy cure is difturbed and retarded. Nay further a great hemorrhage may take place without its being obferved,either becaufe the biood, while the patient lies upon the back, flows down- wards and backwards from the lower corner ofOf diseases of the breasts. (lie wound, without Gaining the external bandage, or becaufe the blood cannot penetrate through the wound to the bandage, on account of its being col- lected under the Ikin, which is drawn together by an adhefive plafter. Thole who, notwithftanding this warning, chufe to content thenifelves with comprelhon, mull at leak be very attentive for fome hours after the o- peration, and particularly mull examine carefully the lower corner of the wound, and the lower parts of the break, in order to difcover whether there is any hemorrhage. The following cafe, where I was actually in danger of lofing my patient by the hemorrhage, '‘proves how important this rule is, OBSERV. XI. A healthy but delicate lady, ol 40 years of age, had three indurated lumps in her left break, on account of which I cut out the whole mamma. In the operation I laved fo much hdn, that after the operation I could eafily draw3° OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS, draw the lips of the wound together, and by means of an adhefive plafter, perfectly unite and clofe the fkin. As the patient was weakly, and would have fuf- fered much by a fuppuration, the fpeedy healing of the wound was fo much the more defirable. I only left the lower corner of the wound a little open. The bleeding flopped immediately. Aker the bandage was applied I entrufted the care of the pa- tient to a furgeon, with the charge to be particu- larly attentive to the hemorrhage. The opera- tion was performed in November about mid-day. At three o’clock in the afternoon the furgeon fent me notice, that the patient felt herfelf well, only a little fatigued ; no bleeding was obferved. At five o’clock I received accounts that the patient was much fatigued, and that fhe complained of tinnitus auriwiu No bleeding was feen. I haftened to her, and how was I terrified on enteringOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 3 I entering the room at feeing her as pale as death, extremely debilitated, and her lips white, with her nofe cold, a weak pulfe, and almoll fainting. I immediately fufpedted a hemorrhage, tore ofl the bandage, which was quite dry, and not at all dif- coloured, and faw the whole Ikin in the place from which the bread had been extirpated, fwelled up i and diftended in fuch a manner, that the patient appeared to have got another bread of uncommon fize. A fmall quantity of fluid blood from the under corner of the wound had flowed down over the belly. I tore the plader off, and found the whole fpace between the flcin and pectoral mufcles filled with an immenie quantity of coagulated blood. To remove this blood with the fingers, to take it clean away from the pedtoral mufcles, to find out the bleeding orifice, was, with candle light, a bufinefs which laded near half an hour. .i I am convinced the patient would have bled to death if I had been an hour later of coming to her; andOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. and I think my reader will wifh to avoid fuch a fcene by adopting the fure means of preventing fuch accidents which I have already fuggefted, i mean tying the arteries with the needle. In the operation of extirpating4the bread, much, depends on faving fo much ikin as to be able to heal the wound per reunionem. I am much per- fuaded they are millaken who, by a fuppuration long kept up, thinlvto evacuate any carcinomatous matter that may perhaps remain, and fo enfure fuccefs; on* the contary they do the very thing which is mod likely to frudrate fuccefs. When no morbid part of the fkin obliges me to give the incifion another direction, I always make it luch that one corner is upwards and the other downwards. I generally make the threads of the ligature hang out from the upper corner, and from the lower corner, whatever purulent matter is termed, flows freely out. As /33 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. As foon as the fk'rn is divided by two incifions of the form of a crefcent whole points meet, I le- parate the external flap oflkin from the glandular fubftance of the bread;; then the inner furface of the bread from the pectoral mufcles; and ladly the glandular fubftance of the bread;, from the inter- nal flap of fkin, proceeding from within outwards. It will be found that in this manner the operation goes on much more quickly, than when both fkin flaps are in the firft place feparated from the bread:, before the bread be feparated from the pedtoral mufcle. The eafe or difficulty of the operation depends chiefly on the perfect mobility of the bread, or on its greater or lefs degree of adhefion to the fubja- cent parts. The adhefion is in a fmall degree, when the attachment is to the external pectoral muicles only, and in a greater degree, when it adheres to the intercoftal mufcles, to the pleura, or periofteum of the ribs. If the bread can be moved backwards and forwards, whether the flioulder lie forward, or be drawn back, there D is34 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. I is no preternatural adhefion. If the bread can be moved backwards and forwards, when the fhoul- der lies forward, but is fixt when the fhoulder is drawn back, it adheres to the external pectoral mufcles. If it be firm and immovable, whether the fhoulder lie forward or be drawn back, the ad- hefion is in a higher degree. When the bread adheres to the external pedto- ral mufcle, there is room for a midake, which in- deed with regard to the operation (which is dill performed notwithdanding of this adhefion) pro- duces no particular danger, yet it occafions diffi- culties which are not expected. For the bread may adhere very firmly to the pedtoral mufcle, and yet be quite moveable, even when the fhoul- der is drongly retradted, if only the bread be mov- ed in a diredtion tranfverfe to that of the fibres of the pedtoral mufcle; and fo it happens that the bread is thought perfedtly moveable, while in the operation it is unexpectedly found to be adhering and quite firm; but with care this may be perfec* tly afcertained before the operation, merely by moving35 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. moving the tumour backwards and forwards in a direClion parallel to the fibres of the peCtoral muf- cle, e. from the top of the fhoulder towards the under and middle part of the fiernum. I have alfo performed the operation in feveral open cancers, but with bad fuccefs. I fliali relate a few cafes of this kind, partly becaufe they were not altogether unfuccefsful, and partly becaufe they give occafion to fome important reflections. OBSEPvV. XII. A country woman, appa- rently about 40 years of age, the mother of feveral children, came into the hofpita! with an indurated lump in her left bread, of the fize of a hen’s egg, which, as fire allured me, had been firfl obferved about five years before, after a blow upon the bread ; it dill was pretty moveable ; fome months ago it had begun to be painful, and there was now actually a fmall opening, which difcharged a red- difli ichor. D 2 But3*5 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS'. Bat this woman had at the fame time fhort breath, cough, purulent expectoration, could not lie on the left fide without great uneafinefs, and was evidently in a confumptive hate. In thele circumllances therefore I was natu- rally averfe to undertake the operation. But as hie intreated me in the moft earneft manner to do it, and allured me that the idea of a cancer was dreadful to her; as the cancerous tumour was al- ready open, and not a moment was to be loll, if any thing was to be attempted ; as the fchirrus was occafoned by an external caufe, and was pretty moveable ; as (according to the patient’s ac- count) the above mentioned pecloral complaints were occalioned by a peripneumony, and appear- ed to have no connection with the cancerous tu- mour ; and belides, as the patient was pretty flout, and without any obfervable fever, I allowed my Fell' to be perfuaded to perform the operation, with a conviclion that at lealt I could not make the condition of my patient worfe. I did37 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. I did not extirpate the whole mamma, but only the indurated lump, with the neighbouring fub- ftance of the bread:, and the wound fuppurated. Already about the feventh day after the operation the pectoral complaints dim infilled, and by the eighteenth day there was not even a veflige of cough, expectoration, or difficult breathing re- maining. This continued till the healing of the wound was completed, fo that we all believed fire Was really cured of her phthifi's. In the tenth week Ihe went out of the hofpital to appearance perfectly well. The wound was quite healed, and all her bread: complaints were gone. She returned nine weeks afterwards,and inform- ed us, that her pebtoral complaints had again made their appearance. We recommended to her the ufe of various medicines, but heard that fire had died of phthifis four months afterwards. »3 From38 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. From this hiftory we are at lead: a flu red of the efficacy of great external ulcerations in difeafes of the lungs. Brambilla faw a phthifis totally va- nifh after the amputation of a leg. Mudge cured himfelf of a phthifis by an iffue which contained thirty peas. OBSERV. XIII. A country woman of 53 years of age, came into the hofpital on the twenty- third of June. After the ceffation of the menflru- al flux, an induration in the left bread: had ap- peared, which had gradually increafed, become painful, and fome months before had turned into an open carcinomatous ulcer. The ulcer emitted an intolerable flench, and was very painful. The pains were lancinating, and for the moft part deprived the patient of her night’s red. In the left axilla there was an indu- rated but moveable lump of the fize of a hazel nut. As^the patient had had much diflrefs of mind, and asOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 39 » other fymptoms gave reafon to fufpeft an accu- mulation of atrabilious obltrudtions and acrimo- nies, I prefcribed for her fome deobfiruents, eme- tics and cathartics. I caufed the ulcer to be covered with a carrot poultice. I then ordered Belladona in a dofe of three grains, which after fome days was increafed to four grains. The faetor and pain difappeared in a fhort time, from the ufe of thefe medicines. The belladona occafioned third:, vertigo, and at times flight nau- fea and faintilhnefs. It is however remarkable that the menflrual flux again appeared during the ufe of the belladona. After flie had taken the belladona for fourteen days, the ulcer was quite free from pain, its fize lefs, and it difcharged good matter. But by the continuance of the belladona, the patient became exceedingly weak, and her eyes particularly dif- fered much ; fhe faw every thing double, and as if through a fine net. The tumour in he axilla was quite gone. D4 I there-40 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS, I therefore omitted the belladona, and ordered china with elixir of vitriol; and as the edges of the ulcer had become painful, I applied leeches to them ; upon which the pain and inflammation • / again difappeared. When the patient had again recovered her. ftrength, I tried the cicuta both internally and ex- ternally, but without any effect. After various other means had been tried in vain, I determined on the operation. During and after the operation nothing worthy of notice happened. The wound fuppurated well, began foon to contract, and at the end of the fifth week was all healed, except a fmali place not lar- ger than a lentil, which had a clean and good ap- pearance. $ For fourteen days I tried every kind of means to bring this part to heal; I caufed an ifiue to be made41 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. made, and allowed the woman only milk diet, but all in vain. As the woman at lall wiftied much to return home, I gave her leave to go, with the advice to keep the arm quiet, and to drefs the wound with faturnine medicines, and to return to the hofpital again to fliew herlelf in a few weeks. She came back the fourth week. The open part was hill the fame, not painful, foft, and unin- flamed ; only it appeared a little foul. For this reafon I applied a little burnt alum and red precipitate, upon which it quickly grew worfe. Next morning the whole ulcer was inflamed, very painful, and twice as large as it had been the day before, and a watery reddifh ichor flowed from it. Whatever I did to «[uiet all this again, was to no4'i OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. no purpofe. In eight days, it was as large as a crown piece. The woman died in the ninth week in the greateft mifery. I caution every one againfl the ufe of medicines purely ftimulating in fuch a cafe. Adlual cauf- tics would have been far preferable. But they muft be ufed in fuch a decided manner, that the whole extent of the ulcer to its very bottom be not merely irritated, but completely deftroyed. Every thing which merely irritates, even cauflics, when they do not adt deep and ftrongly, do harm, while the hot iron fliould perhaps be preferred to cauftic* In the Chirurg. Bibliothek Vol. IX. p. 417, a cafe is related from the Journal de Medecine, where by the employment of the red hot iron three times, a perfedt cure was eflcded. i Would not this have been a very proper cafe for the trial of arfenic ? \ Though43 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. Though I cannot boad of any extraordinary fuccefs in the extirpation of open cancers from the breads, I would have every furgeon boldly undertake the operation, when the local date of the difeafe and the general health of the patient at all permit it. The date of the patient cannot be rendered worfe by the operation. Even in the mod unhap- py event, the patient after the operation is only in the fame predicament that die was in before it, incurable and without relief. For if open cancer * has ever been cured by medicines, we may be fure that it has alfo been cured by the operation. And if the operation properly performed be with- out fuccefs, I think I have every reafpn to affirm, that no other means would have been of any avail. Befides there are in the breads open ulcers of bad kinds, which from every external appearance we may reckon carcinomatous, but which, tho’ they44 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. they are not fo, are neverthelefs incurable, from our not being able to difcover their caufe. I {hall give the hiflory of two cafes of ulcers apparently cancerous, which proceeded from inter- nal caufes, and which with every appearance of malignity, were yet of a benign kind ; and who can deny the reverfe of this, viz. that apparently malignant ulcers are fometimes occafioned by lo- cal caufes of a mild nature. X I OBSERV. XIV. I once cured a bad ulcerat- ed cancer in the break, (fo named at leak by eve- ry phyfician and furgeon who had feen it, and I would have alfo called it fo, if I had not cured it) merely by deobkruents, emetics, and purgatives. The patient was a poor woman, who lived in mifery and wretchednefs. The ulcer in her break was very painful, had thick curling edges,, and bled very eafily. The {kin around it was red. She could give me no fatisfa&ory account of its caufe or origin, but faid, that according to her ap- prehenkon.45 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. prehenfion, it had been occafioned by her having often carried wood up Hairs in her arms. It had been in the prefent Hate for four months. The woman had a yellowifh appearance ; the white of her eye was particularly of a dirty yel- low colour. She complained of itchinefs of the fkin and vertigo. Her tongue was foul, and her appetite and digeftion difordered. All this, and the rofy kind of inflammation which furrounded the ulcer, and the miferable life which the patient led, fuggefled to me the ufe of the above mention- ed medicines. After the two firft emetics, by which much yel- low Huff was evacuated, the pain in the ulcer dif- appeared, together with the rofy kind of rednefs which furrounded it. By the tenth day the ulcer was in a fine Hate of fuppuration. She after- wards got Schmucker’s vifceral pills, and now and \ then a cathartic, which generally evacuated fasces like pitch. In three weeks the ulcer refembled a ' cleanOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. I have clean wound with the mod laudable pus, and it v/as perfectly heal in eight weeks. OBSERV. XV. A lady between 30 and 40 years of age had an indurated lump in her left breaft, of the fize of a pigeon’s egg, which had come on fpontaneoufly. She fometimes felt fly- ing pains in it, was otherwife in good health, and told me that fome years before file had a fimilar tumour cut out from the other breaft. I cut this alfo out at her defire. Nothing particular occur- red during the operation. The feventh day after it, hard chords which felt like tendons, made their appearance round the wound, fome of them as thick as a crow-quill. I looked upon this as a very bad prognofis, but I was miftaken, for the wound healed eafily and foon. After the wound was completely healed, it appeared that the patient was venereal.OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 47 I have employed Arfenic in cancerous ulcers bf the face with much advantage, and without any bad or remarkable effect. I have generally ufed Bernhard’s mixture. See Chir. Bibl. Vol. VII. p. 482. or Journ. de Medec. Vol. LVII. p. 258*. I lay it on of about the thicknefs of the back of a knife. The pain which it occafions is for the molt part inconfiderable. I have even applied it to the point of the nofe, where there is little flefhy fubltance, and to the forehead of a child nine months old. * For the fake of thofe who may not have an opportunity of confulting the books referred to, it will be proper to mention the Formula publilbed by Bernhard, and his manner of ufing it. Prenez Cinnabre artificiel 5 ij* Cendre de Semelles de vieux Souliers brules gr. viij. Sang-dracon gr. xij. Arlenic blanc gr. xl. Mettez le tout en poudre fine, et faites-en un melange exa6t dans un mortier de verre ou de fayance } rcnfermez enfuite ce tout, pour pouvouir vous en fervir au befoin. When it is ufed, lome of it is mixed with fo much water as to form a thin paile, which by the means of a fmall hair pencil is applied to the whole furface of the ulcer about the thicknefs of a piece of fix liards 5 after which the whole is covered with agaric or byflus. If.OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 4B It makes a cruft. If after the reparation of the cruft, the ulcer does not look clean, or if it be- come again fufpicious after a few days, I apply it a fecond time. In fome cafes I have applied it, at ihort intervals, fix times fucceftively, before the ulcer healed. I have never feen any bad effects from it. Arfenic has not been employed of late in a more determined manner, nor with better fuccefs, than in the following cafe, for which I can with certainty vouch. I have it from a refpedtable phyfician, and befides it palled almoft under my own eyes. OBSERV. XVI. The patient, the wife of a country man, had an open cancerous ulcer in the left breaft, whole appearance and fmell were ter- rible. It was of an oval form, and extended from the fternum nearly to the axilla, and from the nip- ple to the clavicle. The edges of it were turned back and very hard. The fluid difcharged from it was thin and ichorous. Stimulating medicines externally49 Or DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. esternnlly applied ten weeks before, had been the caufe of its breaking out. Several glands in the axilla were hard and immoveable. Arfenic was applied in the form of Bernhard’s mixture three different times. The fir 11 time a part of the ulcer was covered with it, which had particularly a bad appearance, and made nearly a fourth part of the whole ulcer. The fecond time it was laid over the whole ulcer. The third time it was applied only to fome fmall places, which full looked ill. In fix days after the lirft ap- plication, a flough feparated, which was a quar- ter of an inch thick. The fecond application had more effect. After feven days a Hough feparated from the whole ulcer, which was be- tween two and three inches thick, and weighed twelve ounces. After this fecond Houghing with fuch a large reparation, the bad fmell vanifhed almoft entirely, the ulcer put on a clean appearance, and mod of the indurations difappeared. It is lingular and E worthyOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS'. 5 O' worthy of remark, that though the arfenic was in this cafe applied to a very large furface, no parti- cular bad effe&s followed. Only from the third and lad application, where it was laid upon fome dill remaining hard and bad-looking places, con- vulfions took place, which however foon fubfided. The ulcer now became evidently better, and as it amended, the axillary glands became fmaller, fofter, and more moveable. i A confiderable furface of the ulcer cicatrifed in a Ihort time, and the remaining part difcharged the mod laudable pus. The patient alfo regain- ed drength and good fpirits, and appeared lively. When the ulcer was all healed, except a very fmall part, die thought die could manage the red herfelf, and went home. Since then we have had no accounts of her, which is much to be regretted. Eacn time after the application of the arfenic, till the feparation cl the dough, the carrot poul- tice51 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. tice with aq. faturn. was applied. She took cicu- ta internally. I have tried almoft all the medicines which are celebrated for curing cancer. I cannot praife any of them. The C.icuta fometimes Hops the progrefs of the fymptoms, renders the difcharge better, and lefiens the pain ; but thefe good effedls feldom continue long. I have tried the Aqua Laurocerafi in various ways, to the extent of from forty to fixty drops ; but fmce feeing it once oc- % cafion bloody urine and ftools, I have no longer confidence in it. Where the operation is not admiflible, the phy- fician for the molt part can only employ a pallia- tive method of cure. When from the general health of the patient, or the external ftate of the ulcer, I difcover no in- dications for any particular medicines, I drefs the E 2 ulcerOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. 52 ulcer with tar, and I can affirm, that this dr effing is of great fervice. It keeps the fore clean, di- mini flies the pain, ameliorates the matter, and takes away the fetor. I prolonged the life of a lady, who had a large open carcinomatous ulcer, for two years, and I beljeve chiefly by this means. Abscesses are fometimes generated in the cel- lular membrane of the pectoral mufcles, and in the glandular fubflance of the breads, which in women are very difficult to difcover, but fome- * what more eary in men. See Chir. Bibl. Vol. X. p. 601. I dial! give my readers the hiflory of one cafe of this kind, in which I miflook the difeafe till the very lad moment, and which appears to me to be particularly worthy of notice. OBSERV. XVII. A lady of about 50 years of age came to me and die wed me her bread, which was of a mondrous fize. A fchirrus as large53 OF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS. large as a gcofe’s egg was plainly to be felt in it, which however was not painful, and die had had it for many years. The bread was other- wife equally diftended, not painful except at the bottom, and pretty hard. Fluctuation was no where to be felt. She had at the fame time a lit* tie dry cough, fome oppreflion at the bread, and a feverifh pulfe. i i At her earned felicitation I refolved to remove — % the bread. After the external Ik in was cut thro’ t and feparated, and while I was employed in fepa- rating the bread from the pedtoral mulcles, a great quantity of purulent matter fuddenly burd out, 0 % / and I penetrated into a cavity in the fubdance of < the bread, which feemed to be as large as the fid. When the bread was feparated, the whole outer furface of the pe&oral mufcle was found covered with a {limy cafeous matter. The bread weighed fifteen pounds. The fchirrus in it was neither ulcerated nor inflamed. All the red of the found part of the fubdance of the bread was interfperfed with a vifcid fluid, and as if it were oedematous. F 3 OnOF DISEASES OF THE BREASTS, 54 % On the furface of the bread which was removed from the pectoral mufcles was an ulceiated cavity of the fize of a fmall fid, whofe internal furface was covered with a dimy caleous matter. For the fird twenty-four hours after the opera- tion the woman felt herfelf tolerably well, only the wound difcharged an unufually great quantity of fluid. The fecond day the cough, and oppreflion at the bread feemed to increafe. She died fud- denly the third day, while die was writing. There was found in the cavity of the thorax a great quantity of a fluid fimilar to that which had ifided out of the abfcefs during the operation, and a caries of the ribs in two places, and fome fmall holes in the pleura and mufcles, through which apparently the pus had penetrated from the ab- fcefs into the cavity of the thorax. / C H A P.55 Q'F THE JAUNDICE. CHAP. II. / ✓ * / OF THE JAUNDICE. It has always been a matter of difpute in what manner the bile in Jaundice enters the blood. It is now pretty generally affirmed that this dif- eafe is occafioned by the bile from the gall-blad- der alone, and that its flow from the gall bladder into the duodenum being obftrufted, it is, by the abforbent velfels, carried back into the blood. This opinion always appeared to me improba- ble ; for if the abforbents of the gall bladder could convey bile that was actually fecreted and fully E 4 preparedOF THE JAUNDICE. 56 prepared into the blood, they might do the fame at all times, lince there is always a confiderable collection of bile in the gall bladder, whether its difeharge into the duodenum be oHftrutted or note If an obftru&ed evacuation of bile into the du- odenum were abtolutely neceflary to occafion jaun- dice, we Ihould then always find the gall bladder in people labouring under that difeafe preternatu- rally full and diftended, which however is not the cafe. And if this obftru&ed flow of bile into the duo- denum and preternatural accumulation of it in the gall bladder were the chief caufes of jaundice, we Ihould always obferve the highefl degree of jaun- dice in the hydrops veficula feUecc, where this vif- cus is lo monRro.ufly diftended with bile. tor fome time paft I have totally difbelieved this theory, and the following cafe I think will in- conteftibly prove that the accumulation of gall in the57 OF THE JAUNDICE. the gall bladder is not absolutely neceffary to oc- cafion jaundice. OBSEP.V. XVIII. A woman died in the hof- pital in the higheft degree of jaundice. On in- fpebting her body, no gall bladder was found, but in its place only a Ikinny fubflance of a very fmall fize, in which no cavity could be difcover- ed. The whole liver was full of white concre- tions apparent!y of the nature of calcarious earth, of different fizes, from the fize of a cherry to that of a pea, and which floated in water. That an obffrufled flow of bile into the duode- num is not neceffary to produce jaundice, and that the hepatic bile can be fo faturated as perfeblly to refemble cyffic bile, and confequently when car- ried back into the blood may occafion a complete jaundice, the following cafe in my opinion fully proves, and as it appears to me a very important one, I (hall relate it with all its circumflances. 1 I OBSERV. XIX. Christian Schorrman, agedOF THE JAUNDICE. 53 aged 40 years, a nailer, was admitted into the hofpital on the nth of February 3 792• ^e had the jaundice for four years, but had for a long time paid no attention to it. hie faid that for fome time before it had appeared, he had been frequently fubjed to colics and to rheumatic com- plaints to fuch a degree that he had become lame of one leg, and he had had a bilious fever. After that complaint was removed he found himfelf pret- ty well. He caught the itch in Michaelmas 1791, which was cured by the ung. fulphuris. About Chriftmas of the fame year he began to be often troubled with heartburn, and rheumatic and gouty pains through all his limbs. The jaundice now increafed, and he often felt pains about the pit of the ftomach, and he was feverifh at night. Such is the account which the patient gave of himfelf. \ On his admifiion into the hofpital, his whole body was of a dark yellow colour, and in forne places even of a dark brown ; he had a cough without any pain in his break, pretty good appe- tite, but bad digellion. He had daily two or three ftools59 OF THE JAUNDICE. ftools, which were perfeftly white, and every evening a flight feverifh paroxyfm came on. Ipecacuanha in fmall dofes was prefcribed for him. Feb. 12. He was tolerably well the whole day, his urine was of a dark brown colour and tinged paper of a deep yellow. He had three white ftools. He got pills compofed of aff. foetid, fell, taurin. gum. guaiac. and caftor.' Fie was ordered the liniment volat. camphorat. to rub on the re- gion of the liver. 14th. His urine was fomewhat cleaner and the ftools wrere flightly coloured. 15th. Pains in his limbs which frequently fhift- ed from one place to another. Serum laft. tama- rindinat. was ordered for his common drink. 16th. The ftools were perfectly yellow, and the urine Hill clearer. The pains this day were chiefly6o OF THE JAUNDICE. chiefly confined to the region of the liver. A blifter was applied to that place. 21ft. The ftools became always more and more coloured. The abdomen which had been much fwelled and violently diftended for twenty four hours, fubfided after the fri&ion with the volatile liniment, and after he had had three watery ftools, 22d. The patient had a very reftlefs night. In the evening he had a feverifh fit, which was iffued in with fhivering. Tartar, folub. was prefcribed for him. 24th. In the afternoon he became very fleepy, which was attended with vertigo and blindnefs, and in the evening he had a cold fit followed by a great degree of fever. He had two coloured ftools. I he yellowifhnefs of his fkin not in the lead diminifhed. 25t^1* ^lc blindnefs and vertigo returned in the afternoon and the feverifh paroxyfm in the even- ing.OF THE JAUNDICE. 6t jag. He had afterwards fix flools which were ftrongly coloured. From this time he continued always fffiepy and flumbered conftantly. The abdomen became diltended and the feet fwelled. 28th. He had four yellow flools. Abdomen flill tenfe. Complete infenfibility, conflant flum- bering, and fpontaneous vomiting. March 2d. Pulfe very fmall and intermittent. The abdomen very hard and tenfe. Delirium. t Cold extremities. Tendency to vomit. Tenef- raus. Towards evening fhort breathing, convul- iions and death. 1 On opening the abdomen, there flowed out a- bout five pints of a yellow watery fluid. The in- teftines were in a ftate of inflammation. The % liver adhered fo ftrongly to the peritonaeum that it was with much difficulty feparated from it. The gall bladder was five inches long and two broad, quite full of dark bile, and contained thir-62 OF THE JAUNDICE. ty gall Hones. The du&us choledochus and parts about it were preternaturally diHended. On cut- ting into the fubflance of The liver a very great quantity of dark brown bile iflued as from a fpunge, of the fame nature with that which wras found in the gall bladder. There was a Hone in the dudtus choledochus, which, on account of its uncommon Hze I have cauf- ed to be engraved on the annexed plate. It weigh- ed three ounces five drams. .All round the Hone there was fluid bile, fo that this fluid had evidently palled by the Hone into the duodenum. It fell into three pieces on being taken out. The external % furface refembled a very firm extradl of liquorice. On fome places there are evident marks of fmal- ler Hones adhering to it. The thick end of the Hone was in the duodenum, the moft pointed was turned towards the neck of the gall-bladder. The pancreas in fome places was as hard as bone. I lie ipleen had no appearance of difeafe. ToI V* <OF THE JAUNDICE. 63 To me it feems probable that the moft common caufe of jaundice is a ftimulus or irritation acting upon the hepatic fyftem, which prevents the af- flux, fecretion and excretion of the bilious fluids, or rather fo deranges the circulation in the hepatic fyftem, that the feveral parts do not reach their deftined places according to the laws of health, but are again mixed with the general mafs of the fluids. I am as indifferent about difeovering tlje way- through which the bilious fluids return to be mix- ed again with the blood, as 1 am about the rout which other morbific matters take in getting into the fyftem. Nature has many ways unknown to the anatomift. And indeed what purpofe would it ferve to know them in the treatment of difeafes. It is fufficient to fay that the caufe of the jaundice is a ftimulus, which prevents thefe fluids from tak- ing their right courfe; it is this ftimulus which mull be fought out and removed, or if this cannot be efFe&ed, its action upon the liver muft be moderat- ed64 OF THE JAUNDICE. ed or deftroyed bjf fedative and antifpafmodic drugs. I am alfo indifferent whether the bile which a- . gain finds its way into the blood, and occafions the general yellow colour, be merely that which is already fecreted and fully prepared, or whether it be bilious fluids which ihould have become bile, but whofe fecretion and preparation had been prevented. The proximate caufe of jaundice may indeed fometimes be a real inverted periflaltic motion in the hepatic ffyllem, for fometimes not the fmalleft quantity of gall flows into the inteflines. It ap- pears however that fometimes the irritation which deranges the hepatic circulation, does at the fame time increafe the fecretion in it, and occafions the preparation of a preternatural quantity of bile; for many jaundiced people have their ficols not only of the natural colour, but of a preternatural* ly deep tinge. TheOF fHE JAUNDICE. 65 The woman without the gall bladder, whofe cafe I mentioned above, had actually the jaundice in the higheft degree; her urine appeared black, her fweat tinged her linen, her whole body was of a dark yellow colour; and fo far was the efflux of the bile into the inteftines from being obdrufted, that on the contrary it was fo much increafed, that the dools were always preternaturally coloured, and the patient threw up at times an iramenfe quantity of bile. Here then there was not even the flighted reafon to fufpedt the flow of bile into the intedines being obdrufted. It was irritation merely which not only deranged the hepatic circu- lation, but at the fame time increafed the fecretion of bile in an extraordinary degree. I am perfuaded that the caufe of jaundice is for the mod part of a fpafmodic nature, and thefe are my authorities and proofs. « Refpe&able phyficians have already grounded this opinion on experience and well founded rea- fons. Chaux in the 74th volume of the Journal F de66 OF THE JAUNDICE. de Medecine proves by experiments that the jaun- dice can be cured by fedatives alone. Selle (Me- decina Clinica, p. 202.) imputes the jaundice alfo to a flimulus, and Vogel in his Treatife on Jaun- dice publifhed at Wezlar in 1791, has proved in fo convincing a manner that the jaundice is occa- fioned bv a hate of irritation in the liver, that I can hardly add any thing to the reafons he has ad- duced. The effential chara&er of the difeafe is fome- times feen in the moh evident manner through its whole courfe. The jaundice does not continue uniformly in the fame degree, fometimes it is vio- lent, fometimes it is flight, at times it almoh va- nilhes, and again it appears. It is fometimes tru- ly periodical in this evanefcence and return. The fenfations which many patients feel in the region of the liver, the tenfion, the agitation, ful- nefs and uneafinefs fhow clearly a fpafmodic hate in thore parts. I once had a young man of 21 years of age in the hofpital, in whom the difeafe of- tenOF THE JAUNDICE. 67 ten evidently remitted. He could predict every new exacerbation. Whenever lie complained one day of a fulnefs, anxiety, and tenfion about the praecordia, I was fure of finding him next day as yellow as a quince. The concomitant fymptoms commonly point out the exiftence of fome ftimulus as the caufe of this difeafe. OBSERV. XX. A man aged 57 years, a wea- ver, who had had the jaundice for five months, was admitted into the hofpital in November 1784. He was jaundiced to a very great degree, and at the fame time fione-blind from the gutta ferena. Ac- cording to his own account he became blind four weeks after the jaundice had attacked him. His pulfe was quick and fmall. He was in other re- fpe&s pretty well. No certain caufe for the jaun- dice could be found out. I only prefcribed for him the infufion of ipeca- cuanha, during the ufe of which the jaundice evi- F 2 dently68 OF THE JAUNDICE. dently di mitt idled. On tlie eight day he com- plained of headach, bitter tafte, and total lofs of % appetite ; he was at the fame time feverifh, and his tongue was very yellow. The ninth day I gave him a vomit, which evacuated a great quan- tity of bilious matter. On vifiting him next morning he faw a little, his eyes were at the fame time become fo fenfible to the light, that he was obliged to wear a fhade ; but there was hardly any trace of the jaundice remaining. I then or- dered him tartar emetic and valerian. Six days afterwards there appeared on his arm an eruption resembling the itch, which increafed for fome days. In the mean time his fight improved daily, and the fenfibility to the light diminifhed. By the inter- nal ufe of crude antimony and dulcamara the e- ruption by degrees di(appeared, and at the end of the fifth week he went out of the hofpital in per- fect health. OBSERV. XXI. A man of 6o years of age was attacked with colics and the jaundice, on the aiiapp'earaucc cl an herpetic eruption, which he hadOF THE JAUNDICE. 69 had long had on the hand. Bathing in a fulphure- ous water freed hint from thefe complaints. The irritation which occafions jaundice maybe of very various kinds, the treatment of the difeafe mull therefore be varied with the caufe. Thebu- finefs in each cafe is to difcover the ftimulus and to remove it. In the firfh cafe juft mentioned it was apparently pforic, and in the fecond herpetic. In the woman without the gall bladder, we found out nothing during life which we could conftder as the caufe. On difiection anumber of white hard concretions were difcovered, the moft of which lay under the external membrane, fome few in the fubftance of the liver. Thefe probably con- tained the irritating matter which occafioned the jaundice. From this indeed it appears, that the caufe or ftimulus which occafions jaundice cannot always be difcovered and removed ; but neither in this cafe is the difeafe always incurable. Sedatives prevent the effects of the irritation, and frequently F 3 a drOF THE JAUNDICE, 7° adtnot only as palliatives, but alfo as a radical cure, Chaux relates feveral cafes where he performed a cure by opium alone. Vogler from experience recommends a mixture of twenty fcruples of lint- feed oil and four fcruples of laudanum to be ap- plied with flannel to the region of the liver. Bang (See Adt. Hafn. Vol I.) cured it by repeated blif- ters. And I am fure that I have frequently feen the befi effedls from ipecacuanha in fmall dofes of the powder or in infufion. A cataplafrn of ci- cuta and hyofciamus, and lintfeed tea fgr common drink very much promote the good effedts of the ipecacuanha. € When no particular flimulus can be difcovered, W7e naturally fufpedt an irritation from the fto- mach, and thence emetics and purgatives fo often produce the defired effedt in jaundice. If the difeafc be obftinate, a fixt irritation in fome of the vifcera of the abdomen, or an infarc- tion is fulpecled, and deobflruents are prefcribed ; and it cannot be denied but that this difeafe is fome-OF THE J ' UNDICE. 7r fometimes adlually removed by fuch means; all the celebrated medicines at lead againd jaundice are of the deobdruent kind, I am however juftifiable in afferting that in fuck cafes too much mav be done, that the deobfi.ru- ents may be pufhed too far, and even in cafes where they were right at fird, they may in the end fupport and increafe the difeafe. OBSERV. XXII. A man of 30 years of age, who had the jaundice, was advifed by his phyfician to take foluble tartar and at times a purge. Af- ter he had ufed thefe medicines for eight weeks, he came to me for advice. He aiTured me that he had evidently grown better for the firfi; weeks during the ufe of thefe medicines, but that for a fortnight he was again manifeilly growing worfe. He was naturally of a delicateconftitution, and was now weak and pale, extremely melancholy and cad down without caufe, and he had many F 4 difagreeableOF THE JAUNDICE, 72 difagreeable fenfations in the abdomen, which al- ways increafed when he took the purgative falts. i Upon the molt attentive examination I could difcover nothing wrong but weaknefs and irritabi- lity, and gave him the infuf. ipecac, by which he immediately grew better. After fix days I gave him the flor. fal. ammon. martial, with rhubarb and bitters, and in a fortnight he was perfectly well. It appears to me that the jaundice often arifes, like agues, from irritation in the primse viae. The long continued ufe of deobllruents and evacuants not only fail in removing thefe difeafes, but by fuch treatment they even become worfe, and re- quire the bark. It appears too that jaundice often proceeds from an hyfteric affection of the liver alone. Real obflru&ions in the biliary ducts are very feldom the caufe of jaundice ; when they do oc- cur they occafion an incurable difeafe; for this caule neither can be difcovered nor removed. Stones©F THE JAUNDICE. 73 Stones indeed fometimes obftrud thefe duds : but the duds ftretch too eafily not to allow the bile to pafs by the Hone, in the lame way as the urine palies by a hone in the urethra. If ftones fome- times are the caufe of the jaundice, they ad pro- bably by occafioning irritation and fpafm, which hops the biliary duds, or deranges the courfe of the fluids in the hepatic fyftem, and in fuch cafes, no other medicines but fedatives are of any ufe. CHAP. IX4 OF THE FLUXUS COELIACUS. CHAP. III. OF THE FLUXUS COELIACUS. If by Flu xus ccdiacus is meant an Excretio a hi pur if or mis vel cbyliformis cum tenefmo, febre lent a et confixmptione, then I have feen this difeafe twice. OBSERV. XXIII. I once faw it in a young gentleman of 18 years of age, in whom I could not find out the fmalleft occafional caufe, except that he had pra&ifed onanifm from his eleventh year. t He was pale, emaciated and exceedingly de- bilitated ; he took his meat however with appe- tite.OF THE FLUXUS COEJLIACUS. 7 Jj| tite, and in other refpedts found himfelf pretty well. He evacuated by ftool a white matter which had the'appearance of chyle, of very pure white pus, or of a thickilh almond emulfion. The defire for this evacuation always came fo fuddenly, and with fuch a tenefmus, that as foon as he felt it, he was obliged to haften afide. The evacuation did not unfrequently take place in his breeches. This white huff was always quite pure, never mixed with faecal matter. I feveral times faw fome breaks of blood upon it. He had a natural ftool generally in the morn- ing, which happened without any tenefmus. For the raoft part very little and often not the leaft of this white matter was evacuated with the natural ftool, fo that this laft and the white matter were two evacuations perfectly diftimft from one ano- ther. The greateft quantity of this white matter eva- cuated at a time, amounted at mofl to a table fpoonfui76 OF THE FLUXUS COELIACUS fpoonful, but for the molt part it was not fo much. The difeafe varied greatly, for fometimes many of thefe evacuations happened in a day, fometimes very few, and fometimes there were none for fe- veral days. The patient was once perfectly free from them for feveral weeks, fo that I thought him cured, but the difeafe returned. After I had tried every kind of medicine with- out effect, I ordered for him a decodtion of log- wood, and this produced a perfect cure. A year afterwards he had another attack, but it was re- moved in fourteen days by the logwood. Since that time ( and it is now ten years,) he has conti- nued well, though he has fince been married. OBSERV. XXIV. A woman of 34 years of age had for fix months a fluxus coeliacus, with all the fymptoms as related in the hiffory of the foregoing cafe. The evacuations happened very frequently and were generally ftreaked with blood. She had befides violent pains in her bladder, of fuch a kind as to make one almoff; believe there was77 OF THE FLUXUS COELIACUS. was a (tone; bat there was none difcovcred by the catheter. By the ufe of flor. fulph. c. aloe et myrrha, (lie was in a fhort time perfectly cured of all thefe complaints. I think thefe two cafes entitle me to fay that the fluxus coeliacus is merely a local difeafe of the inteflinum reddum, and that the matter which is evacuated is only mucuspuriformis from the mu- cous glands of the reddum, of the fame nature as that evacuated in fluor albus. The natural feces were always unmixed with this matter, and the white matter unmixed with feces ; the evacuation was always attended with tenefmus, never with colic pains, and there were frequently ftreaks of blood upon it. The difeafe might juftly be called fluor albus inteflini redi. If people chufe rather to call it h amor r ho is mucofa, I have no objeddion ; in both*cafes all the fymptoms which are generally afcribed to fluxus coeliacus were prefent. In the firft cafe the difeafe feemed to be the ef- fect of debility alone; in the fecond it feemed to be occafioned by the irritation of the piles. Thi- lenius78 OF THE FLUXUS COELIACUS; lenius faw a fimilar cafe. His patient had firft the piles and afterwards the fluxus coeliacus. May not this difeafe, like the fluor albus, be fometimes occafioned by an acrimony, either ex- ternal or internal, falling on the mucous glands of i the reftum ? Gouty complaints at leafl have been feen to precede the fluxus coeliacus. (See Verzai- cha Obferv. med. cent. Obf. 1.) It is now no longer believed that real chyle is voided in fluxus coeliacus fmee Vogel’s publica- \ * tion in 1780, entitled Difl flux, coeliacigenuina ratio et curatio, has fhown fuch convincing proofs of the contrary* But the opinion of Vogel that the difeafe is oc- cafioned by a peculiar Cacochymia cum colluv'te ad inteflina, alfo appears to me improbable. If the white matter came from the blood into the intef- tines, it would be mixed with feculent matter. And why is there only tenefmus and no colic pains ? Why fhould a matter which originates fromOF THE FLUXUS COELIACUS. 79 from colluvies alone appear fo pure and white ? Indeed moft patients of this kind have a cacochy- mic look, but that is not a caufe, but a confe- quence of their difeafe, as in fluor albus And the patient in the fecond cafe had very little of it. Neither can I be of Selle’s opinion when he af- cribes it to an Objlruflio bepatis, qua bills fuis do- tibus privata nequit chylum ex chymo prceparare et Jlavo colore tingere. (See Med. Clinic, p. 508.) The white matter was not feculent, but mucous, juft as it fometimes is in fluor albus. The true faeces were always of a natural colour. I found no fymptoms of a difeafed liver in my patients; their appetites and digeftion were good, and they had daily natural palfage of the belly. Whence the tenefmus ? Is the chyle prepared from the chymus by means of the bile ? Would not, according to this opinion, all icteric patients have fomething of the fluxus coeliacus ? But liver and bilious com- l plaints are very frequent, the fluxus coeliacus is rather uncommon. If difeafes and obftruttions of the8o OF THE FLUXUS COELIACUS. the liver occafion fluxus coeliacus, it is in the fame way in which they can occafion haemorrhoidal fymptoms. I am decidedly of opinion that fiuor albus intef- tini retti is the name which luits this dileale belt. CHAP. /4 ©F DIABETES. Si CHAP. IV. OF DIABETES. 1 his difeafe appears to me to be generally of a fpafmodic nature. According to my experi- ence it is occafioned by a ftimulus which a£ts up- on the kidneys, and hence a fccretio arina aucla, fometimes alfo perverfa is the confequence. When we cannot difcover the particular irritation nor remove it, I believe that antifpafmodics are the proper remedies for this difeafe. The following reafons juflify me for holding this opinion. In ordinary cafes the diabetes is only the quan- G tity82 OF DIABETES* tity of fecreted urine preternatural’y increased. Increafed fecretion of urine is the effect of all di- uretics, all of which a£t by an irritation on the k dneys. We may therefore well admit that the increafed fecretion of urine in the ca'e of diabe- tes aides from the irritation of l’ome kind of mor- bdio matter on the kidneys. Stimuli 'ometimes a'ff in fuch a manner on the i k’dneys, that they fecrete urine with preternatu- ral properties. Thus in worm difeafes the urine \ frequently has the appearance of milk; the urina j’lmehiofa is occafioned by bilious irritation ; and thus from asparagus the urine receives a particu- lar Imell. We may therefore at leak admit it as poflible, that the fecond and lefs frequent kind of diabetes, in which the urine has an unnatural fmell, colour, talte and coo like nee, may alfoarife folelv fro i the irritation of fome morbific matter ■i upon the kidneys. Cafes have been a&ually observed, where the diieale was evidently occafioiKd by an irritation. WfayttOF DIABETES. 83 Whvtt (V. Opera, p. 597.) Taw if occasioned by gouty matter ; M'Cormic (Medical Commenta- ries, Vol. IX.) by the fame caure ; Sydenham by the healing of an old ulcer; but I will not here mention any more fuch cafes from others, as I only vvifh to give my own experience. % OBSERV. XXV. I have myfelf feen and cur- ed two patients where the difeafe clearly proceed- ed from an irritation. Tlie firll patient had had a fever, which had been very badly treated, in- deed quite neglected. It had however by degrees difappeared during the ufe of a purgative, but he had never fince that time been quite well, and fourteen days after, he had firll obferved the unu- fually great flow of urine. He made at leaft 30 'b. of urine daily, which was as clear as water. The difeafe was of lour weeks Handing. Since from the account of the patient, the fe- ver, which had to all appearance caufed the di- abetes was probably a bilious fever ; as I found his pulle fmall, tenfe, irritated and quick, as he G 2 complainedOF DIABETES. 34 complained of an uneafy fenfation and fulnefs- in the region of the ftomach, and as all his complaints grew worle towards evening, I gave him a vomit. A very great quantity of bilious fluff was evacuated, and I can with truth affert that next morning there was not a vellige of dia- betes nor of any other complaint. He remained perfectly well for eight days, when he went out of the hofpital. OBSERV. XXVI. The fecond patient was a fervant, who had been attacked with the difeafe after being thoroughly wet while he was much heated. He had flying pains in his limbs and in the region of the kidneys ; and as often as thefe lad became violent, the urine always foon after came away in the greatefl quantity. He got an- timonials and warm baths, by which means the difeafe gradually diminifhed, and went away. But it returned in a fortnight. By the repetition of the fame medicines it again went off, and the patient now feemed to be perfectly cured, and took fome bitters. But the difeafe appeared a- gamOF DIABETES. gain in two weeks, at firlt in a mild degree, and it afterwards gradually became more violent. As fome fcorbutic fymptoms were obfervable in the man, he got wort to drink, during the ufe of which the difeale by degrees difappeared for ever. The concomitant fymptoms generally obferved in diabetes alfo ferve to fhow its fpafmodic na- ture and irritating caufe Molt patients have draw- ing, burning, and other painful fenfations in the region of the kidneys, an uneafy tightnefs or an uncommon heat in the region of the Itomach, an irritated pulfe, palpitation of the heart, or ftart- ings in the limbs. I have feen patients who from thefe fenfations could every time foretel a new attack, or a new aggravation of the difeafe. Thefe feelings became always more violent a fliort time before. Even the violent thirft itfelf appears to be ra- ther ol a fpafmodic nature, and not in a particular manner to be occafioned by the wafte of watery fiinds. The patient is not quenched however G 3 frequentlyOF DIABETES. 86 frequently he drinks, and the third:, as well as the other fenfations, is often more violent before the attack of the dileafe than after. The fpafmodic character of the difeafe is parti- cularly fhewn by its alternate increafe and dimi- nution. It even happens at times that itperfedlly cea'es and again returns. * ✓ \ The diabetes has much refemblance to the lien- tery. And may we not conclude from this fimi- larity, that it is owing to fimilar caufes ? And in a1! preternaturally increafed difcharges, is not an irritation generally in fault ? LafUy from the method of cure and from the medicines by which it is cured, we may conclude that it is of a fpafmodic nature, or rather that it proceeds from an irritation. OBSE.RV. XXVII. To a patient in whom I could difcover no precife caule, 1 gave tartar e- * meticOF DIABETES. 87 metic and valerian, and the difeafe went awray en- tirely in ten days. To another I gave ipecacuanha, which eafly made him vomit. As often as he threw up the difeafe difappeared for twenty four hours. Stoller (V. Beobaffit.) cured a patient with Pe- ruvian bark and opium : Dobron (Med. Obi. and Inquir.) by warm baths : M'Cormick (Mcu. Com. Vol IX.) by Dover’s pow7der. Brifbane affirms (k-le6! Cales) thaf almond emulfion in fuch cafes is of great ufe. Tin£t. cantbarid. and bark have been varioufly ufed with advantage again!! diabe- tes. I fuppofe the firft added by carrying off irri- tation as in chincough, the lecond by allaying ir- ritation as in agues. I am not of the opmion of thofe wffio aferibe the dileafe chiefly to a weaknefs and relaxation 01 the kidneys.OF DIABETES. 83 It fometimes comes' on pretty quickly in people where no marks of weaknefs of the kidneys were previouflv' obferved, in cafes where no caufe was before noticed that could weaken the kidneys. During and after difeafes, in which diMention and relaxation of the urinary veffels mull adtually have taken place, for example along with and af- ter the midtus cruentus, no diabetes is obferved. i ' The urine in diabetes is generally as clear and limpid as water. Would it not be thick and tur- bid if relaxation of the urinary veffel’s were the caufe ? Sometimes the quantity of urine in diabetes is not at all increafed, but only the qualities of the urine are morbid. And can fo different and unna- tural properties of urine be explained folely by a relaxation of the kidneys ? Sometimes in this 1 aft kind of diabetes, the quan- tity of urine is even diminifhed (V. Cowley Lond. Med. \OF DIABETES. 89 Med. Journ. V. IX. P. III. Ann. 1788.) Mull; we not from thence conclude that the kidneys are in a condition direttly the oppofite of relaxation ? \ The alternate increafe and even total intermif- 1 fions of this difeafe, do not I think allow us to afcribe it to weaknels and relaxation alone. ' ♦ Tonics are here feldom ufeful. Brifbane af- ferts that peruvian bark and all llrengthening me- dicines are for the moll part hurtful. And if they fometimes lhould have done good, was it not by dipiinilhing irritation and irritability ? Though the kidneys of thofe who have died of diabetes have fometimes been found preternatu- rally large and relaxed, it is no proof that this morbid hructure of the kidneys may have been the effect of the difeafe. I by no means however deny that llrengthening medicines may fometimes be ufeful in this difeafe, andOF DIABETES. 90 and that whether you confider weakners and re- laxation as a predifpofmg caufe, or as a confe- quence and effed of the difea'e, the weaknefs and relaxation muff ftill be held in view in the cure of the difeafe. Such relaxation takes place in all ipalmodic difea'es, and in fuch as are occa- fioned by irritation. But in my opinion the chief thing is to find out and remove the irritation which ads upon the kidneys, and when this can- not be difcovered, to countered* its adion upon the kidneys by fedatives and antifpafmodics. Befides the medicines of this kind above named and tried by experience, 1 would particularly ie~ commend camphor in emulfion. The opinion of Dr. Dobfon (Med. Obf. and Irq. Vol. V.) who afcribes the whole difeafe to an imperfed affimilation, and that of Dr. Brif- bane, who imputes it to a peculiar kind of colli, quation, have little probability. In moft patients no figns of colliquation are found, not even in the urine,OF D1ABFTES. 9i urine, no previous caufe of colliquation, or of im- peded aifttnilation. The difeafe frequently conges on very quickly. The tundtions of the organs of digeftion are unimpaired, &c.OF THE DYSENTERY. 92 C H A P. V. OF THE DYSENTERY. What I long confidered as highly probable from the reafoning and experiments of Akenfide, Stoll and Vogler, I have for fome years believed to be quite certain, being well fatisfied from my own extenfive experience, that the dyfentery does not at all depend upon bilious corrupt acrimonies in the inteftines, that it cannot at all be cured by emetics, and ftill lefs by purgatives, but that it is a rheumatic or catarrhous afledftion of the intef- tines, particularly of the great guts,, and that the properOF THE DYSENTERY 93 proper remedies for the difeafe are fedatives and diaphoretics. As country phyfician to the principality of Goetingen, I have obferved during the laft years three very confiderable dyfenteric epidemics in the country, in the bailiwicks of Friedland and Harfte ; I have had various dyfenteric patients in the hof- pital, and fome out of it. I have carefully and accurately obferved the difeafe, and am fully con- vinced that in the faid three epidemics the difeafe was of a rheumatic or catarrhal nature, and that the bilious character which it affumed in fome fo- litary inftances was merely accidental and accef- forv. i I (hall communicate to my readers the refult of my remarks, which I have collected with care and fidelity from two or three hundred patients. The dyfentery is fometimes preceded by fymp- toms evidently catarrhal, which vanilh as foon as the dyfentery comes on. InOF THE DYSENTERY. 94 In Lenglern many people complained for fome days before of wandering pains and a fenfe of weight in all their limbs. They were extremely {enable to cold. This was the ufual beginning of the difea'e, and the warning to the patient that he was to be'attacked with the epidemic. Some con- tinued in this condition for eight days before the actual fymptoms of dyfentery appeared. I know fome people who in thefe circumftances took ftrong diaphoretics, and efcaped the dyfentery. Others became worie after their ufe. OBSERV. XXVIII. A lady had a catarrh and cough for eight days. Both fuddenly di{ap- peared, and flie was attacked with fymptoms of dyfentery. OBSERV. XXIX. A woman in the month of January during mild weather, when the dyfen- tery was not fo much as heard of, had a rheuma- tic pain in her fhouider. After fome days it fud- d.niy went away, and (lie was attacked with dy-OF THE DYSENTERY. 95 The charadler of the difeafe may be alfo difco- vered from circu nftances which follow it. I have had occafion to obferve cafes of this kind. OBSERV. XXX. A country man who had a very violent dyfentery, was fuddenly feized with general rheumatic pains in all his limbs, fo that he could not move one of them, and the dyfente- ry fuddenly difappeared, after he had taken a me- dicine from a country phyhcian in which I fmelt brandy and camphor. OBSERV. XXXI. A servant had the dy- fentery for eight days, and was already growing better, when he was feized with an angina ferofa. The fame night in which this happened, what re- mained of the dyfentery totally difappeared. The dyfentery always prevails more in the country, and efpecially in time of harveil. Who does not perceive that the country people are pre- cifely at that time expofed to be alternately over- heatedOF THE DYSENTERY. heated and cold ? I think that from this alfo we may infer the character of the difeafe. The environs of Lenglern are fomewhat elevat- ed. In the year 1791 the harveft was there fo late, that it was long over about Goetingen, when about Lenglern the fields were full of reapers. And juft at this time the dyfentery appeared in Lenglern. At the fame time the weather which hitherto had been long dry and warm, became all at once cold and rainy. A fortnight afterwards when the dyfentery in Lenglern already began to decreafe, it began to rage in Ellerhaufen and Hellperhaufen, two villa- ges which are much higher than Lenglern, and which on this account have generally a later harveft. We may alfo draw conclufions concerning the real character of this difeafe from the nature of the epidemic conflitution at the time. When the dyfentery prevailed in the bailiwick of Harfte in 1791, the prevailing epidemic conflitution vras notOF THE DYSENTERY. 97 aot at all in any confiderable degree bilious. There had been a very fine fummer, early dry cold, and then again moderate warmth to the end of No- vember. The dyfentery prevailed in Sep'ember ; in October and November rheumatic complaints alone prevailed. Difeaies of other kinds were al- io at this time united with a rheumatic character. In the middle and end of November I had fcarce a patient in the hofpital, whofe difeafe was not rheumatic or mixed with rheumatic complaints. The dyfentery attacked people of every age without diftinctiori. It is however worthy of re- mark, that it was more fatal to males than to fe- males. I can with confidence take upon me to fay, that the number of men who died of dyfente- ry was to that of the women as j 2 to 1. The chief fymptoms were a fever evidently of the catarrhal kind, which upon the whole was not violent, and in fome patients hardly obfervable. At uncertain times of the day a gentle cold ftage came on, which alternated with inconfiderabie II heat.OF THE DYSENTERY. heat. The pulfe was quick but not full; the* fmaller and more tenfe it was, lb much the more violent were the pains. In fome the number of ffools was very great. Many patients went to ftool from forty to fixty times in a night. Moll of them voided flime and blood, and the faeces which fometimes came away with thefe were very hard. The fkin was dry. Many had a bad take, want of appetite and a fur- red tongue. Bilious acrimonies were therefore evident in many. It however appears to me probable, that thefe were not the caule of the difeafe, but rather the effect of the irritation in the bowels , that they were the confequence of an increafed lecretion of bile occafioned by a llimulus, which had no far- ther effential influence on the principal difeafe. My reafbns for this opinion are as foilow. In fome patients who had the difeafe in the highell degree, there were no fymptoms of too much99 OF THE DYSENTERY. much or of noxious bile, either in the mouth, urine, or faeces to be obferved. Some were very foon cured without either emetic or cathartic. In fome emetics gave relief without evacuating any bile. Emetics feldom produced any obfervable miti- gation of fymptoms though they evacuated bile. In many they did not produce the {mailed change in the difeafe. I have feen patients who were ex- tremely ill though they had been vomited thrice. In fome emetics and purgatives leemed to in- creafe the afflux of bile or to keep it up. People who had been vomited immediately at the begin- ning of the di'eafe, were never free of the bitter tafte and yellow tongue during the whole courfe of the direare. I law fome who a few hours -afU-r the vomit had the lame bitter tafte, and as foul a H 2 tongue tloo OF TIIE DYSENTERY. tongue as a couple of hours before the operation of the vomit. The fymptoms of bile frecpiently difappeared after a Angle emetic, without the patient being on this account any better. Frequently the patient became better though thefe fymptoms continued. Some patients without any fymptom of an over- flow of bile were exceedingly bad, and others with thefe fymptoms were not at all ill. The cure of this difeafe prncipnlly depended on allaying pain and irritation, and on raifing a gentle diaphorelis. Opium and antimony effe£led this. There was no fymptom more favourable than a rnoifl (kin. I can affirm that by the ufe of opi- um, the bilious fymptoms difappeared, and the pa- tient was cured without evacuation. Opium did not bind up the belly ; it leffiened the number of ftools and made them ftercorace- ous. I haveOF THE DYSENTERY. ioi I have feen feveral cafes in which daring the ufe of opium, the dry, yellow, brown tongue be- came moill, and where an emetic was given at this time with very good effects, after it had been previoufly given once or even oftener without any evident advantage. I have cured many by emetic and purgative medicines without any evacuation. Emetics in finall dofes had evidently as great an effect, frequently even greater than in full dof- es, upon the pains and ftools. It appears there- fore clearly from this that it did not depend on e- vacuations. OBSERV. XXXII. That the overflow of bile in the dyfentery depends upon irritation of the inteftines, and that every thing that diminifhes this inteftinal irritation does good, and that opi- um in particular diminifhes this overflow of bile, or even prevents it, I once had a convincing proof in a young man. Every time he did not take an H 3 opiateOF THE DYSENTERY. 102 opiate in the evening, he had a reftlefs night with many flools ard pain, and next morning a dry lhin, a parched foul tongue and bitter tafte. If I procured him a quiet night by means of opium, the lit in ard tongue were next morning moift, the pul'e Toft and calm, and the tongue clean, or only a very little louh From ad which 1 think it appears very prob- able that though there are often fymptoms of an overflowing of bile in the dyfentery, this bile is not the caufe of the difeale, but rather the effect cf it, and that the cure of dyfentery does not chief- ly depend upon vomiting and purging, but upon shaving irritation, and upon perfpiration being gently increased. The dyfentery has been cured % without any previous evacuation by emetics and purgatives, bv the ledum paluftre alone. See Ne- ue Schwedlfche abhandl. a Band. It is therefore impoflible that the difeafe can be owing to corrup- ted acrimonies in the inteftines. Every body knows that an overflow of bile ac- companiesOF THE DYSENTERY. IO3 companies every fpafmodic and painful difeafe of the inteftinal canal, every colic ; and why ihould it not accompany the dyfentery, which is one of the molt painful inteftinal difeafes ? When the eye is irritated tears flow; a falivation is produc- ed in painful difeafes of the mouth and throat, and fhould not an hepatic falivation, an overflow of % bde, attend fo painful a difeafe of the inteftinal Ca- na! ? Indeed that phyftcian has no knowledge of inteftinal difeafes who has not conftantly in view an overflow of bile, which is fo frequently con- nected with them, When we alfo conficler that difeafes occalioned by an acrid, cauftic, putrid bile (and fuch mull be the bile in dyfentery, if it can occafion fuch vio- lent pain, and its not uncommon confequences in- flammation and gangrene,) are for the 1110ft part connected with violent general feverifh fits, and that the feverifh fits in the dyfentery, in the com- mon and not complicated cafes, are for the moft part very gentle, and even not at all to be obferv-OF THE DYSENTERY. 104 cd, it cannot be thought probable that bile is the morbid matter in dyfentery. I do not however rejedt emetics altogether, but for the moll part give one at the beginning of the difeafe, when there is any indication for it. They evacuate the bile, an accelfory irritation, diminilh the fpafm in the inteftines and promote a gentle perfpiration. I always gave the preference to i- pecacuanha which feemed to me to have more ef- fect upon the pains than tartar emetic. After the vomit I gave a cathartic at the begin- ning of the difeafe, particularly with the country people, where I always fufpected an accumula- tion of accelfory ftimulus in the inteftines. I al- ways preferred manna for this, and with child- ren where there was a fufpicion of worms, calo- mel, which operated fo mildly and fo powerfully that I afterwards chofe it for my ufual purge for grown people. I affirm that no purgative ope- rates fo power rully and at the fame time fo gently as calomel. It even appeared to me to have an efientialOF THE DYSENTERY* I05 efl'ential efTedl on the difeare itfelf; moft purga- tives increare the pains; calomel frequently di- minifhed them remarkably. t In my opinion no purgative is more prejudicial in this difeafe than rhubarb, though jalap is not much lefs fo. I have a lively remembrance of feveral patients who, according to my internal con- vidlion, were killed by rhubarb. OBSERVE XXXIII. I still think with hor- ror of an amiable young woman to whom I was called late in the difeare. I found her arms as cold as ice, and every other fymptom of internal gangrene. Upon my alking what had hitherto been ufed, I was told rhubarb. On diffeclion of the body, all the inteftines were found gangrenous ; and people confoled themfelves for her lofs by fay- ing that there had been putrefadlion in her abdo- men. Really the violent pains in the bowels, the fe- ver, and the difpofiUon to inflammation and gan- greneOF THE DYSENTERY. io6 grene mull deter every phyfician from making ufe of rhubarb and other heating purgatives. After the primae via? had been emptied imme- diately at the beginning of the dileafe, when it ap- peared to be neceffary, if the patient had a confi- derable degree of fever, I gave tartar emetic in ffnall dofes with 1’al ammoniac, or fp. mindcrer. flor. fambuc. mucilag. g. arab. fucco liquiritiae. When the fever was inconfiderable I gave tinct. Thebaic, cum vin. antimon. Huxh. or extract, op. cum ipecac. I did this even though the pa- tient Hill had a bitter tafte and foul tongue, tho* in this cafe the primae vise had only once been emptied. Opium was conflanlly of the greateft ufe when perfpiration was obflrufted. OBSERV. XXXIV. The firft time where I was under the neceffity of giving opium, was in the cafe of a young man of 18 years of age, and I did it really with great apprehenfions. He had already been vomited twice without evacuating any bile, and without finding any good effect from it107 OF THE DYSENTERY. it whatever. He had a yellow dry tongue, forty ftools in an afternoon, every one of which attend- ed with pains, fo violent as almoft to occafion fyn- cope, and a prolapfus ani, and which was always increafmg. « The gut at lafh became very much inflamed, which made me dread the word conTequences. Every kind of enema, even the mod mild, fliulu- lated the gut. I gave him fucc. liquorit. extract, opii, ipecac, and camphor. The next morning he was as if born anew. He had had only one flool, towards morning, and that eafy and natural. The pulfe was foft, the fkin moid, but the tongue was foul. I gave him a neutral fait, and imme- diately after the fecond dofe the pains again be- came violent. I had therefore again recourfe to opium, and gave it him by day in fmall and in the evening in larger dofes. The tongue was quite clean the fecond day. A continued manor cutis took place, and the patient was quite weli on the fifth day. I alfoor THE DYSENTERY. lo8 I alfo remarked in other cares that opium when only given feldom, produced only a fhort and tranfitory relief. It mull be given conftantly and for a continuance to cure the difeafe radically. And at intervals emetics may be freely given, whenever there is a fufficient indication for them. I can with confidence aflert that after I had ad- minifiered opium for two days the patient was of- ten vomited with remarkable good tffcCt, though he had been previoufly made throw up without any advantage. Opium was the principal medicine ; a foft pulfe and a moift fkin were the chief figns of its good effect, and of a certain amendment. And indeed whoever is without prejudice mull be led to the ufe of this medicine, merely from the vio- lent pains, from whatever caufe they proceed. Pains are almoft the only fymptom of the difeafe ; to quiet pain almoft the only bufinefs of the phy- fician. The ancients called this difeafe Tormina. Opium was of little ufe in injections; the me- chanicalOF THE DYSENTERY. 109 chanical irritation in giving injections raifed and increafed the pains; and as long as the difeafe was violent, the patient feldom retained them fo \ long as that they could have any effeCt. Neutral falts evidently increafe the pains. Even with fal ammoniac, which I fo much wifhed to ufe, I was obliged to unite demulcents to prevent its flimulating effects as long as any confiderable degree of fever remained. And of demulcents I have more confidence in the fuccus liquiritiae than in any other. For common drink I ordered a decodtion of lint or hemp-feed with elder flowers, or of flowers of mallow, wild poppy and liquorice root. This agreed with the patient very well ; it did not how- ever produce fuch mitigation of fymptoms as I expedled. I always think that thefe mucilaginous drinks are recommended generally upon the fup- pofition that there is an acrimony in the primae vice which mufl be covered. NeitherOF THE DYSENTERY. no Neither did emollient injedtions do by far fo much good as I expedted. They for the moll; part came off again very foon without any effedl. They often increafed and renewed the pains. I will however readily allow that the clumfy man- ner in which they are adminiftered in the country had a great fliare in thefe bad confequences. Warm fomentations to the abdomen with ol. chamomel. et hyofcian. and fridlions with the li- niment. volat. camphorat. were of much greater life. Thefe often produced inftantaneous relief. If there was a fixed pain in the belly, or if the pains were conftant, fo that the patient was not free from them even when he was not at llool, I applied a bliftering pi after to the abdomen with the beft effedts. Tepid baths could not well be employed in the country, however much I expedled thfey would be of fervicc. I tried them twice in the hofpital with evident benefit. But warmth in general, was ofIll OF THE DYSENTERY. of great ufe. The difeafe was frequently fatal among the country people, from their often getting out of bed with bare feet on hone floors. In fome cafes where the evacuations were fetid, and the patient extremely debilitated, the arnica did wonders. When the difeafe was fairly gone, rhubarb in fmall tlofes ferved excellently to ftrengthen the bowels. In fome patients a lientery remained after it, which was removed by columbo root after all o- ther medicines had failed. OB3ERV. XXXV. A youth aged 14 years, with whom a very violent and obllinate lientery had remained after the dyfentery, came to the hof- pital extremely emaciated and with a flow fever. We tried a variety of medicines for four weeks, blifters, ipecacuanha, baths, mucilaginous medi- cines, opium, &c. but in vain. Opium flopped theOF THE DYSENTERY. 112 the lientery as often as it was prefcribed, but it always occafioned at the lame time, anxieties, ten- fion of the abdomen, drowfinefs, Sec. As foon as it was difcontinued the difeafe returned. The pa- tient was in the higheft degree of debility and e- maciation, when I at lall made trial of the colum- bo root. From the very fir ft day the lientery was entirely flopped. After he had taken it for four- teen days he recovered his flefh and ftrength, and he left the hofpital the third week quite well. The fuccefs of this method of cure for the dy- fentery which I have juft defcribed was remark- able. Of eighty-five patients in Lenglern only five died, and from thefe five I may deduct two, an old woman, who was late of afking my advice, and who had died before floe had taken any of the medicines which had been prefcribed, and a child which from difficult dentition died of convuifions. Thirty-five of thefe patients were cured within five days. Every perfon who knows the difficul- ties which oppofe reafonable pra&ice among the country**3 OF THE DYSENTERY country people, will furely allow that the fuccefs of this treatment was uncommonly great. * % For this fuccefs I am in a great meafure in- debted to the unwearied zeal of Dr. Wefely and to the fatherly cares of the Rev. Mr. Wallbaum for his parifhioners. I am far from aflerting that the dyfentery is al- ways of the nature that I have obferved it for the laft four years, and as I have now defcribed it, I know that the epidemic character, when it adts upon difeafes, can produce a great variety in them; I know that from a hundred cafes, no conclufion can be drawn for all pofiible cafes, and that the fame difeafe may be produced by many different caufes. My experience however juftifies me in avert- ing that the dyfentery is at leaft often merely a rheumatic complaint of a catarrhous nature ; that the proper medicines for it are diaphoretics and fedatives; that bile in the difeafe is merely acci- I dental $114 OF THE DYSENTERY. dental; ancl that emetics and purgatives, though they evacuate the acceffory irritation of bile, do by no means remove the principal caufe. And now though others may prove in like man- ner from experience, that the dyfentery is fre- quently occafioned by bilious putrid acrimony in the inteftinal canal alone, and that emetics and purgatives are its proper remedies, I have no- thing to fay againft it. I fhall only obferve that the word dyfentery is very much mifufed. When a dyfentery prevails, every colic, every diarrhoea is called dyfentery, and it is eafy to conceive that emetics and purga- tives frequently cure fuch dyfenteries. If any one fhould be furprifed at the rheuma- tifm attacking chiefly the great guts in the months of Auguft and September, he fhould alfo wonder that at other times out of epidemic caprice it fhould throw itfelf upon the eyes, throat or breafl. But it does not always attack the intellines iu SeptemberOF THE DYSENTERY. Ix5 I 2 The September, I have pretty frequently feen at the time of an epidemic dyfentery various other ca- tarrhous and rheumatic complaints prevail. It is not in September alone that it attacks the intef- tines; fingle cafes of dyfentery are alfo found at different times of the year. # * To thofe who maintain that there is a fpecific contagion in dyfentery I have nothing to fay. If they believe that there is in general a fpecific ca- tarrhous miafma, the influenza has given ftrong proofs of this. It might alfo if neceffary be af- ferted that the catarrhus inteflinorum is occafion- ed by a fpecific contagion. But the belief of this miafma has not yet made any effential change in the method of treating the catarrh; neither would it have any effential influ- ence on the manner of curing dyfentery. The belief of this miafma was rather a reafon for the diaphoretic method of cure recommended by me ; for I know of no miafma that can be carried off py purging.OF THE DYSENTERY. C II A P. Il6 The belief therefore or difbelief of this conta- gion is a matter of no confequence whatever. But I am furprifed that this dyfenteric miafma fhould never appear except at the end of Auguft and in September,117 OF VOMITING OF ELOOD. CHAP. VI. OF VOMITING OF BLOOD, It is well known that vomiting of blood arifes from various caufes. But it is not fo generally underkood, that like other preternatural hemor- rhages,it is fometimes occafioned folely by the ir- ritation of bile. Every one at leak would not have taken the refolution I formed and accom- / plillied in the following cafe with extraordinary good effe&s. OBSEPvV. XXXVI. A servant maid, heal- thy and well, at leak as far as could be learned by I 3 everyOF VOMITING OF BLOOD. every inquiry from herfclf and mihrefs, without any remarkable difpolition to vomit blood, with- out any fymptom which gave reafon to fufpedt ail obflruftion in the abdominal viLera, was fudden- ly feized in the evening with a violent vomiting of blood. She had already had two attacks, when « 1 was fent for to fee her on the third day. I found her pretty lively in the morning. She had hitherto always had her menfes regularly, and neither in her prefent fituation, nor from what Hie told us of her former hate, could I fmd any thing to account for the haematemefis. In the evening of the fame day fine was attack- ed a third time with vomiting of blood. I was fent for and fhe threw up in my prefence frefh, clear, red blood. She told me that hie had had the vomiting at the fame time the preceding day, and that each time an hour before the attack hie had felt an uneafinefs at the pit of the homach, and i’oon after a flight fhivering. I found alfo that her pulfe was now exceedingly irritated. NextOF VOMITING OF ELOOD. 1*9 Next morning I inquired into every circum- flance more minutely. She was indeed not hot, but her pulle was irritated and feverifh. Her miilrefs told me that hie was very irafcible, and that a few days ago fhe had particularly been in a violent pahion. She was pretty free from complaint about the praecordia, but fhe confelfed that fhe had fome headach, and that now and then hie felt a bitter tahe. Her tongue was clean and moih. But her face was uncommonly red, her eyes fparkled, and the white of her eyes was fome- what yellow. She had alfo a dry, hiort, lpafmodic cough and an uncommon rellleflhefs. I was convinced that my patient had a fever, ' though it was very obfcure, that the vomiting of blood always happened at the time of the exacer- bation, and that this fever was of a bilious nature. Under this idea I ordered a cathartic. The hcols which it produced were to all ap- pearance natural. The vomiting of blood re- turned in the evening at the ufual time, with the I 4 fame120 OF VOMITING OF BLOOD. fame fymptoms, but only fomewhat more violent. The patient however appeared to me to be lefs hot. Next morning floe was as well as ufual, only weaker than the preceding day. Her pulfe alfo was funk and more tenfe. Her tongue was clean, but the bitter take was increafed. She took vitri- olic acid the whole day. In the evening the vomiting of blood returned again at the ufual time. And now as fhe was next morning exceedingly exhaufted, her pulfe fmall and fpafmodic, and her take more bitter than yeherd.;y, I had no further hefitation in ordering a vomit. She threw up half a chamberpotful of the purek grafs green bile, which, as the patient allured me, was as four as vitriolic acid. The evening after fhe had not the fmalleh at- tack ol haematemefis, not a vekige of all her for- merOF VOMITING OF BI.OOD. 12* mer fenfations. Next morning the patient was fo well, that llie with difficulty took a gentle purge. Her appetite had returned, and the fecond day af- ter {he already betook herfelf to her ufual occupa- tions. * And why fhould not bilious irritation occafion vomiting of blood, as well as haemoptyfis, epiftax- is, menorrhagia, See. ? But it is truly worthy of notice, that the haematemefis in this patient hap- pened without any predifpofing caufe. It is laid that the nioft common caufe of haema- temefis is an obftrudtion in the abdominal vifeera, and its confequences, impeded circulation, accu- mulation and regurgitation of blood. I alfo now very readily believe this ; only it fee ms to me very probable, that in common cafes thefe obftruc- tions of the vifeera are feldom the caufe of the aftual burfting out of the blood through the llo- macli; that there is generally a cciufa accejfona which caufes the actual vomiting of blood, and which122 OF VOMITING OF BLOOD. which is chiefly to be attended to during the par- oxyfm of haematemefis. And what could be effeTed in a paroxyfm of haematemefis, which there is reafon to afcribe to an obdru&ion of the vifcera, if we attended chief- ly to this caufe, and endeavoured to remove thefe obdruflions ? This objedl mod commonly could not be accompliihed, or it would be fo late and fo flowly accompliihed, that the difeafe would furely be fatal, if it did not of itfelf hop before this its fuppofed caufe were removed. Very confiderable indurations of the vifcera are frequently feen without any vomiting of blood, and vomiting of blood with induration of the vif- cera often entirely ceafes, though the induration remains. OBSERV. XXXVII. I see a man dill going about the dreets, a dram-drinker, who bears in his countenance all the marks of difeafed vifcera. A- bout fix years ago he had a violent haematemefis, which123 OF VOMITING OF BLOOD. which continued feveral days, and which brought him to the brink of the grave. He however re- covered, has fince that time never again vomited blood, though he has continued to drink as much brandy, and looks as miferable as before. I by no means deny that in obftrudtions of the vifeera and impeded circulation, blood may be fo accumulated in the velfels of the ftomach, as at laft to flow into the ftomach, and that therefore vomiting of blood may arife folely from obftruc- ted vifeera, without the co-operation of any acci- dental caufe. But this is feldom the cafe. For the moft part an acceffory caufe will be difeovered; for the moft part the flopping of the paroxyfm of haematemefis depends on the removal of that ac- ceflory caufe. When it is flopped we may then endeavour to open the obftru&ions of the bowels. According to my experience, there are three different ftates in which patients are found during the paroxyfm of this difeafe, a fpafmodic, a hot and inflammatory, or a bilious. The flopping of theOF VOMITING OF BLOOD. 124 the hemcrrhagy for the moft part depends on re- moving bilious irritation, on allaying fpafm, or on cooling and quieting. The radical cure then in- deed reds upon opening the obftrudtions of the vifcera, but which during the paroxyfm cannot be thought of. The following cafe I think partly proves this. OBSERV. XXXVIII. On the 18th of May 1781 a man aet. 38 was admitted into the hofpital, who had already been there about fix years before on account of a vomiting of blood. He got the better of it at that time, but he remained always in fo poor a Rate of health, that I fufpt&ed fome- thing wrong in his vifcera. As we were informed by himfelf and his friends, he had now had lor fourteen days great anxiety at the praecord-a, with a weight at the pit of the flo- mach, pains in the back below the fhoulders, head- achs, want of appetite, bitter take, with great de- bility, but he had not y et taken any medicines. OnOF VOMITING OF BLOOD. I25 On the faid 18th of May, he fuddenly fell down fenfUefs on the ltreet, and immediately a great quantity of blood gufhed out at his mouth. He was immediately brought to the hofpital, and from his clothes, it was found that a great quantity of black pitchy-like and very fetid fasces had come away by the anus. His countenance was pale, his hands and feet cold, his pulfe extremely fmall and tenfe, and foon after his arrival at the hofpi- tal, he had another, but more flight attack of vo- miting of blood. I immediately caufed feveral injections to be given him, and alfo prefcribed tamarinds with cream of tartar, chamomile tea, made him be warmed, &c. The fpafmodic fymptoms fubfided; The faeces by the ufe of the above mentioned medicines, continued infufferably fetid till the 23d ofMay. From that day till the 30th ofMay, they gradually became natural, the bitter take went away, and the appetite returned. Ey the ufe of foluble tartar, and afterwards of bitters, he by degrees recovered, fo that on the 17 th of June, he126 OF VOMITING OF BLOOD. he left the hofpital with the appearance of good health. It may be that the man had obftrn&ions, and fo indeed it appears to me ; but furely the prefent attack of haematemefis was owing to bilious and atrabilious acrimonies. This is proved by all the fymptoms which he had for fourteen days before the attack ; it is proved by the cadaverous llools, it is proved by the benefit derived from gentle purgatives, by which alone he was to all appear- ance reflored to perfect health. The manner in which blood reaches the flo- mach, I once had an opportunity of feeing very diflindtly. OBSERV. XXXIX. A woman whom I had reftored by the ufe of gentle purgatives to pretty good health from vomiting of blood, returned in three months, complaining of a violent pain in her left fide, and of a general uneafinefs. I prefcribed forOF VOMITING OF BLOOD. 127 for her a gentle neutral fait, as I did not fee any determined indication for any other medicine. The fecond day after her admiflion, fhe was attacked with violent convulfions and fyncope. When fhe recovered, the blood gufhed out of her mouth, and foon after a quantity of blood pafied off by the itool. j The next day fhe had a fecond attack of moll terrible epileptic convulfions which killed her. On infpedtion of her body, I found the ftomach and inteftines full of blood, the veffels of the fto- mach, particularly the vafa brevia incredibly dif- tended and gorged with blood; the fpleen preter- naturally large, and fo tender as to be very eafily torn with the fingers. CHAP.liS OF HYDROCELE. CHAP. VII. OF HYDROCELE. I have feen many cafes of a hydrocele, and have often performed the operation. I have al- ways done it by incifion, and always fuccefsfully. In this operation not the fmalleft unlucky accident has ever happened to me, which could have made me chufe any other method of operating. OBSERV. XL. It once failed with me from inattention. A confiderable hemorrhagy took place after the operation, which the furgeon, to whom I had intrufted the care of the patient did notOF HYDROCELE, I29 iiot obierve. The patient was by this means fo much debilitated, that a fufficient degree of in- flammation did not follow. The wound clofed after a fmall fuppuration, and then the water gra- dually collected again. Such hemorrhages happen frequently after the operation, and they may really become dangerous if they are not difcovered in time. They are very eafily flopt, but feldotn flop of their own accord. The velfels from which the blood iflues are incon- fiderable, but by the preternatural diftenfion ofthefe velfels during the fwelling of the fcrotum, and by the fudden relaxation of the fcrotum after the eva- cuation of the water, the hemorrhage from them becomes confiderable. Thefe hemorrhages, even when profufe, are rea- dily overlooked. The patient after the operation lies upon his back, and the blood runs down from, the lower corner of the wound into the bed. The patient may be drenched in blood, though the ex- ternal dreflings be dry and not difcoloured. K ItOr HYDROCELE. J30 It is therefore an important rule, efpecially when the hydrocele had been very large, to examine the patient frequently and accurately, i. e. not only to look at the dreffings, but each time to pafs the hand under the fcrotum of the patient as far as the but- tocks, and to feel if every thing there be dry, and obferve whether the hand come out again unco- loured. i It is likewife of confequence to introduce af- ter the operation thick comprelfes between the thighs of the patient, and to reft the fcrotum upon them, in fuch a manner that it may not be quite horizontal, but at the fame time that it hang but a very little down. If it lie quite horizontally the matter does not flow properly out of the under part of the wound. If it be allowed to hang down be> tween the thighs without any fupport, the under and back part of it often fwells, frequently be- comes quite hard and very painful, while the ex- ternal fkin lying conRantly in dirtinefs and moif- ture is excoriated, and the purulent matter pene- trates into its cellular membrane. WithOF HYDROCELE. I3I With regard to the drefling of the wound after the operation, there are fome not unimportant rules to be taken notice of. I take care to intro- duce immediately alter the operation a couple of dofils into the tunica vaginads, by each iide of the teflicle. OBSERV. XLI. It once happened that when on the fourth day I removed the firft drefling, the edges ol the wound ol the tunica vaginalis adher- ed to the teflicle, and I could not by any art get at the dofll in the cavity or the tunica vaginalis. I he pus gradually accumulated in it, and again made an opening, through which I at laft drew out the dofll. But it was always fmall, and the difcharge of the matter was not quite free, fo that me healing, alter a variety ol little difficulties, was accomplilhed later than common. Since that time, I have laid it down as a rule, not only to provide tire dofll with a thread, which 1 let hang out of the external wound, but alfo in tuc full drefling always to lay in on each fide of K 2 theOF HYDROCELE. the tefticle a broad little bandage, which I leave hanging out of the wound, and fix it to the {kin on each fide of the wound by means of an adhefive pi after. This little bandage alfo prevents another troublefome accident. When the external wound is much fwelled, the lips of the wound feparate from one another, and imperceptibly attach them- felves to the tefticles. The tefticle therefore re- mains uncovered in the wound, and it cofts at laft much trouble to draw the lip of the wound toge- ther to cover the tefticle. One time the healing had already made fuch progrefs, that I was afraid the tefticle would have remained always uncover- ed. I gradually indeed, but with much trouble, brought the lips of the wound together, and there remained a very ugly cicatrix and a deep furrow. This too early adhefion of the lips of the wound to the tefticle, is prevented by the two lit- tle bandages, which lie between the tefticle and lips of the wound. The difcharge of the matter from133 OF HYDROCELE, from the tunica vaginalis is alfo by that means always freely kept up. The providing each dofil with a thread, which is allowed to hang out of the wound, ferves alfo to let us know at each dt effing whether all the do- fds have been taken out. I have known a dofil remain a long time unobferved in the tunica vagi- nalis, and prevent the healing. The wound be- came fiftulous, and did not heal, till at laft the do- fil was difcovered, I once operated upon a fingular hydrocele. I reckon it a hydrocele cyjlicay though it difFers from it in fome refpeCts. OBSERV. XLII. The patient was a man of 40 years of age, and otherwife in perfect health. The fwelling was altogether on the right fide of the fcrotum, of the fize of the fifl, but fo very little tenfe, that fluctuation was quite evidently felt, and by external prelfure it could be fqueezed K 3 intoOF HYDROCELE. J34 into various forms. It refembled a fack which waa only halt lull of water. In this there was very plainly felt fluctuating I three round bodies, which were quite hard, and of the- fize of a very large hazel nut. The fcro- tui» was furrovved, and the fwelling not painful. The difeafe had been taken for a hernia of the urinarv bladder, and the hard bodies in it for uri- nary calculi. B.it as the patient not only now, but horn the beginning of the difeafe, had never had the fmalleft urinary complaint, as he could r tain his urine for a long time, without the fwel- ling oi the fcrotum increafing, as preffure did not diminifh the fwelling, and occafioned no fenfation in the bladder, and efpecially as the fwelling was far di^.ant from the abdominal ring, and had not th ea . connection with it, I declared that it was not a vefical hernia, and determined upon the ope- ra on, although I could not explain the real na- ture oi the fwelling. I opened135 OF HYDROCELE. I opened the tumour by a long incifion. Aco- lourlefs tranfparent water flowed out, and with it came away three bodies of the fhape of an egg, which were of an offeous fubllance, and covered with a cartilaginous cruft, and no where attach- ed, but floated quite difengaged in the water. When the water flowed out, I examined the ca- vity in which it had been contained. It was not a condenfed cellular membrane, not a ligamen- tous fack, as I had expe&ed, but an extremely loofe and flaccid cellular membrane, which con- fifted of ifolated large vehicles, home of which run acrofs the lack, and divided it as if into different cavities. I filled the cavity with dofils, and drefled it in the ufual manner. On the fourth day when I took off the firft drefling, no more of the cavity was to be obferved, the wound refembled an in- cifion in the lkin, which only penetrated fuperfi- cially into the cellular membrane. I was now fenfible of the blunder which I had committed. I K 4 attempted136 OF HYDROCELE. attempted to introduce dofils and to excite a fup- puration, but I could not reproduce any cavity ; a fuperficial wound remained, which difcharged very little matter and clofed in fourteen days. Two days before it clofed, the fcrotum on that fide feemed again to be fuller, than on the healthy fide. The patient, a ftranger, went away after the healing of the wound, and in fix months wrote me, that his fcrotum was juft as it had been be- fore the operation. Perhaps at the time of the operation, I Ihould have cut out the greater part of the loofe, laminated, cellular membrane from the whole circumference of the cavity, and fliould have filled it very full with the dofils, and have produced inflammation and fuppuration by means of efcarotics. OBSERV. XLIII. I have three times obferv- ed fomething fimilar in the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis teftis. After I had divided the fkin of the fcrotum and tunica vaginalis, in place of wa- ter,OF HYDROCELE. I37 ter, there iffiied from the wound a loofe, laminated, cellular membrane, which was full of water, in the form of many watery vehicles of various fizes, I divided them with the fciffars, upon which the water flowed out, and the vehicles collapfed. The cavity of the tunica vaginalis was now empty, its internal furface however was not as ufual fmooth, but uneven and covered with a loofe cellular membrane. The radical cure however, was ac- complifhed by the common treatment without difficulty. OBSERV. XLIV. Once only I cured a hy* drocele by internal medicines. The patient, a fervant about 30 years of age, was in other re- fpe£ts in perfect health, and could inform me of nothing which I could confider as the caufe of his complaint. The tumour was perfectly oval, and as large as a goofe’s egg. As he could not immediately fubmit to the operation, I prefcribed a diuretic for him. AlterOF HYDROCELE. 138 After that I did not fee him again for a fort- night. He then returned and afiured me there was not the fmallefl change. Upon examining the fvvelling now, it appeared to me fo hard, that I confidered it as a farcocele. Befides as the man feemed to be a free-liver and diflipated, I ordered him the internal ufe of mercury. He returned in eight days. He had ufed the mercury the whole time, but the fvvelling remain- ed unchanged. I was now convinced from a more accurate examination that it was a hydro- cele, and as he was not yet determined on the operation, Iprefcribed for him the former diuretic, He returned in eight days more, and informed me, to my great aftonilhment, that the fvvelling was gone, and that he had made a great quantity of urine. And effeclually there was not a veltige of the fvvelling to be felt. I have only once employed the lancet in the palliative operation, and a hernia fanguinis was the confequenceOF HYDROCELE. J39 confequence. I advife therefore every one again!! the lancet. Befides the trocar is convenient and fafe. As in the hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis tellis we never know for certain in what ftate the tef- ticle is, the palliative operation fhould previoufly always be performed once, that we may be able to examine the hate of the tefticle. In the method by incifion, if the tefticle be unexpectedly found indurated, we can at the fame time alfo perform caftration, and in that cafe, this rule is fuperfluous for thofe who prefer the incifion. It is not how- ever totally fo, as we never know beforehand, whether the farcocele be in fuch a ftate as to re- quire caftration. CHA P.OF THE EPILEPSY. 140 i CHAP. VIII. Of THE EPILEPSY. Dr* Vaughan in the fecond Volume of the Me- moirs of the Medical Society of London relates the cafe of a lady, who till the feventh month of her pregnancy, threw up every day fo often, that file hardly retained any nourifhment, was extremely debilitated and emaciated, and lay in bed almoft conftantly in a fweat. She fainted as often as flie raifed herfelf up in bed, and ihe could not take the fmalleft quantity of any thing without throwing up. A variety of medicines had been tried in vain; even opium failed to procure any relief. Dr,I4I OF THE EPILEPSY. Dr. Vaughan then imagined that the vomiting Was perhaps become habitual, to the ftomach, and that it now continued from cuftom aWe, that to free the ftomach of this cuftom, eating and drink- ing, which occafioned the vomiting, muft be care- fully avoided for fome time. He therefore advifed the patient to abftain from taking any thing whatever by the mouth for fome days, and to be fupported entirely by emollient and nutritive injections. This plan fucceeded perfectly. The patient re- covered remarkably during this time. She felt fome defire to eat on the fourth day. She took fome beer and a bit of beef, and without any vo- miting ; nor did fhe throw up after a fecond trial. In a word the vomiting did not again return, and the patient foon perfectly recovered. I prefume that in all fpafmodic difeafes, and turely in the epilepfy a fimilar ftate is not un- frequently to be remarked, namely that the difeafe often142 OF THE EPILEPSY. often continues from cuftom alone, after the origi- nal caufe had long ceafed to a£t, that frequently every thing depends upon nature being made to difcontinue this cuftom for a time, fo that file may come to forget the difeafe; that every thing de- pends entirely on feveral fucceflive attacks being prevented, in order to fucceed in hindering it from ever returning. 1 know of no medicine which will fo certainly prevent an epileptic fit, as a vomit given an hour before the attack. This indeed can only be had recourfe to when we forefee the fit, i. e. when the difeafe is periodical, when the fit comes on at cer- tain times, and when the attack is always preced- ed by a forewarning. In the epilepfia notturna, a dofe of ipecacuanha may be given every night at bed-time. The following cafes prove that this opinion is not without foundation. OBSERV. XLV. A Jewess was attacked withOF THE EPILEPSY. 143 with a violent epileptic fit every Tuefday. As I could difcover nothing morbid about her which I could confider as the caufe, I gave her an emetic in the morning of three following Tuefdays. The paroxyfm never again appeared after the fir ft vo- mit, though I kept her in the hofpital five weeks, i. e. a fortnight after the third emetic. She threw up very little after each dofe, and her flomach to all appearance was perfe6tly clean, but fhe was fo difficult to vomit,that fhe took each time tart. emet. gr. xij. cum ipecac. 5 jfs. and after all threw up on- ly twice. She went out of the hofpital in the fixth week* OBSERV. XLVI. A boy of 12 years of age, had for lix months pafl, and alfo for the laft eight days fince his admiffion into the hofpital, daily had one, and fometimes two epileptic fits. I could not difcover any certain caufe, and for the firft eight days gave him remedies upon the fuppofi- tion of a caufe, which was not very probable, but in vain. I then144 OF THE EPILEPSY. I then gave him an emetic in a full doze, and the following day two grains of ipecacuanha mor- ning and evening. From the commencement of this plan of cure, the difeafe difappeared. I con- tinued it for twelve days, afterwards kept the pa- tient fourteen days longer in the hofpital', and during all that time, there was not the fmalleft threatening or remains of the epilepfy to be ob- ferved. \ OBSERV. XLVII. A country woman aet. 23, apparently healthy and ftrong, had had the' itch about a year before, which, as Ihe exprelTed herfelf was driven away by un&ions. Four weeks after this Ihe was attacked with epilepfy. As in her younger years, and even very lately, file had palled many worms, as the pupils of her eyes were much enlarged, and as file generally felt, a Ihort time before the fit, pains in the region of the umbilicus, I fufpe&ed worms. The paroxyftn had hitherto returned every eight days,145 OF THE EPILEPSY days, and had generally continued half an hour. She had had the lafi fit on the 4th of July, and on the 8th flie came into the hofpital. She continued well till the morning of the 13th at eleven o’clock, when fhe fuddenly fell down fenfelefs upon the ground, without having previ- oufly complained of any thing whatever. There was frothy faliva at her mouth, and her thumbs were drawn firongly into her hand, The convulfions continued five minutes, alter which file lay a quar- ter of an hour in a profound deep. On the 16th at five o’clock, fhe complained of fome violent pains in the abdomen, and half an hour after, a violent fit came on. During the 17th file took ten grains of tartar emetic in fmall dofes. In a few days fhe was able to take one grain every two hours, with- out being naufeated. The paroxyfm never again appeared.OF THE EPILEPSY. 146 The tartar emetic was omitted on the 3d of Augufl, when her nienfes came on. On the 8th of Augu.fi flie began again to take the tart. emet. As flie had now been four weeks without any attack, (he was difmlffed about the middle of Au- gufl. O11 the 21 ft of September I received ac- counts that hie had always remained perfectly well and had never again been attacked. I think it fuperfluous to mention any more ca- fes of this kind. It is evident that this method of cure can only be employed when there cannot be difeovered any caufe requiring a peculiar treat- ment. I have no doubt but that the fame method of cure would in h r.ilar circumftances be equally effectual in other fpafmodic nervous attacks. With regard to agues, even quartans, I can af- firm from repeated experience, that the paroxyfm generally keeps off, or at leaf!: becomes very gen- tle,OF THE EPILEPSY. *47 tie, if an emetic be given an hour before ; and that the difeafe is not unfrequently cured when this procefs is repeated feveral times fucceflively. I have oftener than once removed quartans of half a year’s handing, folely by the continued ufe, for fourteen days or more, of tartar emetic in fmall dofes and extract of chamomile flowers. I have made ufe of the flowers of zinc in epi- leptic fits, fometimes without advantage, and fome- times with a remarkably happy cfledt. 1 can- not however beforehand determine the cafes in which this medicine will have fuccefs. It is by making the experiment only that this doubt can be refolved, and the experiment furely will do no harm, if it does no good. I fhall only copy one cafe from my regifter, in which zinc was un- commonly ufeful. A cafe which upon the whole is particularly worthy of notice. OBSERV. XLVIII. C. S. who by her father’s account, was a lively and otherwife healthy girl L 2 ofOF THE EPILEPSY. 14$ of 13 years of age, was attacked in her twelfth year with an epidemic fever, which after fome time went off, without the ufe of any kind of medicine. After this fhe found herfelf pretty well, but there appeared upon her feet an eruption, which was not itchy, and which was pu(t away by un&ion. About eight weeks ago, fhe for the firft time had an attack of St. Vitus’ dance, which has re- turne 1 every day fince. By means of a medicine, which fomebody had recommended, a great quan- tity of worms had been expelled, and fince that i time the attack had regularly happened every evening at five o’clock. A fulnefs in the pnecordia and frequent yawning, always announced the approaching pa- rox) fm. At the beginning of the paroxyfm, there was always fpafm in her internal parts ; fhe breathed with great difficulty, and felt as if ex- ceedingly ftraitened ; then followed convulfions of her external members, then the tightnefs immedi- ately jOF THE EPILEPSY. 149 af.ely Vanifhed, and often in thefe fits her head was fo much retracted as to touch her back. The firft fit fhe had in the hofpital was on the 18th of May ; it lafted three quarters of an hour. After the fit fhe became quiet, and began to repeat long fongs, during which flic made very flight gefiiculations ; then fhe fprung up, laughed, beat about her, and attempted to run out. This whole feene continued two hours. When it was quite over, fhe complained of no- thing. She believed fhe had flept; fhe had there- fore neither heard nor feen, nor been at all fenfible during the paroxyfm, and indeed her pupils were exceedingly enlarged while it lafted. On the 19th of May fhe complained that every- thing tailed bitter. She got tartar emetic and fo- luble tartar. The paroxyfm returned this day, hall an hour after nine in the evening, and conti- nued two hours. To convince us that file really did not fee, a light was fuddenly prefented to her L 3 eyes.15° OF THE EPILEPSY. eyes. She did not obferve it, and the pupils re- mained unmoved. On the 20th Hie got a vomit which operated three times, but evacuated nothing morbid. At ten o’clock at night flie had only a flight attack of convul lions. On the 21A Hie was purged by a powder com- pofed of jalap, femen fanton. and calomel. No worms were obfcrved. The paroxyfm kept off this whole day, but flie was very reftlefs all night. It did not return till the 25th. This day there fpontaneoufly came on bilious vomiting, headach, fhivering and heat. The 27th flie complained of fulnefs in the preecordia and of bitter tafte. At fix o’clock in the evening lhe was attacked with con- vulfions in the extremities, which continued till near night, during which however flie retained the life of her fenfes. At eight o’clock flie lay quite infenfiblc. At 9 o’clock flie began to breathe freely, when convullions again appeared, and laA-OF THE EPILEPSY. I51 ly flie began to fing. The paroxyfm was quite over about ten o’clock. After it fhe complained of fevere pains in all her limbs. On the 28th flie was unable to get up, all her limbs were fo weak and painful. An emetic ope- rated three times with much difficulty and without evacuating any thing. The fit returned at nine o’clock, and continued feven hours. She could at find neither fpeak nor fwallow; then Die jumped up, ran up and down the room, laughed, Sec. It came back a fecond time at eight o’clock at night. A burnt feather was held to her nofe, af- ter which flie fneezed violently and frequently, during which the paroxyfm ceafed, but ihe had hardly given over fneezing, when it again return- ed. / Her father vifited her in the hofpital on the 26th, and fhe wifhed much to return home with him. The emotions of the mind on this oc- cafion brought on a v-o’ent fit. . L 4 OnOF THE EPILEPST. ^5 2 On the 29th flie had again uneafmefs in the praecordia, bitter taile and a paroxyfm. On the 31ft fhe took an emetic which evacuat- ed much bile. In the evening having walhed her feet with cold water, unknown to any body, fhe fell down and lay five minutes infenfible in a deep fyncope, and then Hie was attacked with convul- fions which continued an hour. During the paroxyfm fhe was generally blind, deaf, and without any fenfibility, and yet file fre- quently recited from eight to twelve long fongs very accurately during it. Whenever fhe repeated a ftanza wrong, flic paufed a few minutes, appeared to think, and began again exactly where fhe had left off, and corrected what fhe had faid wrong. She told long ftories without hefitation. Her me- mory feemed to be remarkably ftrengthened, while all her other fenfes were fufpended. Next day fh^ had frequent and fome very vio- lent©F THE EPILEPSY. 153 lent attacks, and again complained of very bitter take. On the 2d of June fhe took for the firfl time flor. zinci gr. j. three times a day. From that moment the fit never returned. The bitter take and fulnefs of the praecordia, of which fhe had al- ways complained alfo vaniflied. After each dofe fhe was kick, and felt pains in her abdomen. June i ith. The flores zinci occafioned fits of fick- nefs and frequent vomiting the whole day. I therefore diminifhed the dofe to half a grain, and now every complaint difappeared. The flowers of zinc were continued in the a- bove dofe till the 7 th of July, and as during all that time, there did not appear even the fmallek at- tack, I permitted her to go out of the hofpital. Three months afterwards her father informed me that fhe had always continued well, and that flie had never had another attack. ItOF THE EPILEPSY. 154 It is worthy of remark, that from the day {he took the flores zinci, the bitter take and fulnefs in the praecordia, which had fo frequently troubled her before, never again lhowed themfelves; a proof that bile, when it appears in difeafes, is not always the caufe of fuch difeafes, but frequently only the effect of the irritation of that difeafe, and a warning to thole who think nothing elfe necef- \ lary to cure difeafes where bile appears, except emetics and purgatives. Only to vomit and purge in difeafes where there is no overflow of bile, is often really the fame as to endeavour to / cure a falivation by mallicatories; and indeed eva- cuation in the cales juft mentioned .never produce any obfervable change on the difeafe. But I fhall be more particular about this in a- nother place. C H A P.*55 OF THE FLUXUS HEPATICUS. CHAP. IX. OF THE FLUXUS HEPATICUS. -—— It appears to me probable that vomitus emeritus, morbus niger, fluxus hepaticus, and hamorrhois are difeafes of the fame nature and origin, and that they only differ from one another in regard to fi- tuation and degree of violence. If the blood iflues from the upper parts of the inteftinal canal, haematemefis happens, if from the lower parts, haemorrhois follows ; if it iffues from the fmall inteftines in fmall quantity, fluxus he- paticus takes place, and it is the morbus niger whent$6 OF THE FLUXUS HEPATICUS. when old coagulated blood, or even frefli blood in greater quantity flows into the fmall inteftines. The following cafe in which I faw all thefe difeafes except the haemorrhois in the fame pa- tient, juftifi.es this opinion. OBSERV. XLIX. C. S. a fervant of the Count of Br. an Italian by birth, a tall, lean, melancholic man ; his face of a brownifh yellow colour, other- wife pretty healthy and very temperate, fome years above 50, complained to me that he had forfome- time felt a certain anxiety and uneafinefs, and a conftant dull pain in the region of the umbilicus, that his head was affedted, and his bleep much dis- turbed. As he had in his countenance all the appearance of atrabilious obftrudfions in the abdominal vif- cera, 1 gave him folvents, particularly foluble tar- tar and extradlum taraxaci. The third day, particularly towards evening he wasOF THE FLUXUS HF.PATlCUS. 157 was exceedingly diftrefied and uneafy. I ordered him a purging fait, which he was to take the fol- lowing day ; but during the night, he became fick and threw up blood. The fymptoms however were not violent, and the quantity of blood thrown up, hardly amounted to ten ounces. When I vifited him in the morning, the vomiting had per- fedtly ceafed, and he was now more eafy and free from difagreeable fenfations in the abdomen than the day before. He took the laxative already prefcribed, which i evacuated nothing particularly naufeous, and next day again foluble tartar. i On the eighth day the uneafy fenfations in the region of the umbilicus began again to be violent; the belly at the fame time became fwelled and dif- tended. I gave a laxative without any particular advantage. The fenfations about the umbilicus t increafed. I was fent for to fee him on the morning of the thirteenthS$8 OF THE FLUXUS HEPaTICUS. thirteenth clay. I found him upon the night chair, pale as death, with a cold fweat on his face, vio- lent rumbling in his belly, almofl without a pulfe, and very near fainting. Under him was a pail nearly half full of coagulated blood, which he had voided in about two hours. This evacuation of blood ftill continued. The pain in the region of the umbilicus ftill became more violent after each evacuation, the abdomen more diftended, and then rumbling in the belly followed. I ordered cold applications to the ab- domen, gave him ipecacuanha in fmall dofes, and an infufion of millefolium, with emollient enemata, and the evacuations gradually became lefs fre- quent and weaker, and at laft altogether ceafcd. In three days he had a new attack, but it was foon quieted by the above mentioned means. From this time he had a true fluxus hepaticus, which lafted ten days, and which was always ac- companied with colic pains about the navel, more or lefs violent at different times, and the fluid e- vacuated.159 OF THE FLUXUS HEPATICUS. vacuated had quite the appearance of a lotura car- nis, more or lefs coloured, and fometimes more, fometimes lefs copious. During all this time, the patient took weak tamarind whey. When this flux had continued eight or ten days, I determined upon giving him a gentle emetic. His head was affected, his tongue covered with a brownifh yellow cruft, he complained of a difa- greeable take, had no appetite, the fenfations about the umbilicus were not diminilhed, and cathartics never feemed to do any good. The vomit evacuated a brownifh fluff, with fome relief. Next day I gave him foluble tartar and tamarind whey. And now the (tools became quite black afid like pitch. By the continued ufe of the above mentioned medicines, thefe ftools continued with evident mitigation of fymptoms. The tenfion and (welling of the abdomen, with t’ne painful fenfations in the region of the um- bilicus went away, the patient became lively and his ftrength and appetite gradually returned. Thisl6<? OF THE FLUXUS HEPATICUS. This black evacuation by (tool continued more than a fortnight, when the faeces again afiumed their natural colour. China with the lichen ifland. reflored his ftrength. Two months afterwards I had occafion to fee the man every day, and he was then quite well. Af- ter that he left this place and I have heard nothing of him fince. I fhould think that the fource of the blood, as well as of the bloody water which came away by ftool, was in this cafe evidently from the fmall guts. The man never had had the haemorrhois, nor any appearance of it during the courfe of this ill- nefs. C H AOF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 161 v C H A P. X. OF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. X hat the fiflula lachrymalis may often be cufed by medicines alone ; that it does not always re- quire an operation, is proved by the following cafe. OBSERV. L. H. Burre of Nardheim, a boy of ten years of age, had had an abfcefs in the la- chrymal fack when two years old, which at 1 aft cor- roded the fack, and occafioned a filial a lachryma- lis. After fome years, the external fiftulous open- ing (hut of itfelf. M rn J. woOF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. l62 Two years ago another abfcefs took place, which again corroded the lachrymal fack, and occafioned a fiftula with which he was admitted into the hofpi- tal on the 37 th of June. At the time of his admiffion there was a great deal Of proud flefh around the fiftulous opening, which was only got the better of by the repeated ufe of the lapis infernalis. The whole lachrymal fack feemed to be painful. Out of the opening there flowed green and yellow purulent mucus. I As from the account given by the patient and his mother, there was forne reafon to conclude, that an ill-treated itch and dried up feald head were partly the caufe of the difeafe, I ordered the exter- nal ufe of Jaffers antipforic ointment, and caufed the lachrymal fack to be daily fyringed. June 30th. The patient felt an itchy fenfation on the fkin and head. The external ulcer had a better appearance.OF THE FTSTULA LACHRYMAI.J5. 163 July 3d. The externa! appearance of the fibula bill improved, and an eruption appeared. 5th. The fibulous opening grew lefs. By ex- ternal preffure there came only clear tears out of the fibula, without any purulent flime. The e~ ruption remains unchanged. 20th. The eruption going off, the fibula almoft clofed. Aug. 4th. The patient was difmified perfedbly well. OBSERV. LI. H. A. O. R. v. R. had a fibula lachrymalis from his very early years, which how- ever had never occafioned him much uneafinefs, and had remained in the firb bage. He was about 30 years of age, and for fome time pab had caufed various trials be made to cure it radically by different phyficians, which however all failed. He at lab came to me. M 2 I found164 OF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 1 found the whole nafal canal perfectly ftiut up, and in fuch a manner that I looked upon it as im- pofiible to open it and render it of life. Exter- nally there was a fiftulous opening which went in- to the lachrymal fack. The lachrymal fack was quite found, and the punCta lachrymalia were open. I perforated the os unguis with Potts’ trocar, and introduced into the opening at fir ft catgut, and after fome time leaden founds. The opening in the os unguis was large and wide, the injections flowed freely into the nofe, and the air ilfued forcibly out of the external o- pening* The patient wore the leaden founds four months, and there was not a veftige of any purulent fluid to be feen, when I at lad permitted the founds to be taken out and laid afide, and the external open- ing to heal. But in a few days the new-made channel into theOF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 1 65 M 3 that the nofe was again obflruHed. Not the leall of the lachrymal fluids pa fled into the nofe, all came out at the external opening and prevented it from clofing. % * Several years are fince elapfed, and he flill has a fmall almofi: imperceptible external opening through which tears flow. I have advifed him to retain this opening, and frequently to prefs the la- chrymal fack. He finds himfelf well by following this advice. The external opening is invifible, thelachrymal fack doesnot fwell,becaufe itempties itfelf by this opening ; it is not painful, and I be- lieve that the patient is fecure from inflammation and all other poflible accidents, as long as this lit- tle opening remains. Some time ago he allowed me to pafs a found through the opening into the lachrymal fack. I felt quite plainly that the hole in the os unguis was Hill as large and open as immediately after the operation, but that it was covered behind by the membrana pituitaria narium, and confequentlyl66 OF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. that it was only the opening in the membrana pi- tuitaria which had again clofed. This is probably the reafon why the perfora- tion of the os unguis l’o feldom fulfils the intended purpofe. And we canuot wonder that tiie membra' na pituitaria lliouiu ciofe up again, when we confider li ay ljpungy and extenfibie this membrane is, that it is om}' pierced by a pointed inftrument, that the opeuu g m it is lor tne molt part preferved only by its being iorcibly kept expanded, and that it again contracts as loon as the found is withdrawn, however long the found had remained in it. The long continued ufe of leaden founds is of no avail. The opening in the membrana pituita- ria always remains merely an inconfiderable punc- ture, made by the point of the trocar, and widen- ed by expanfion. As loon as the ftretch ng in. lirument is removed, it returns to its original fize, i. e. to that of a line pun&ure, or rather it clofes. * The ancients perforated the os unguis with a hotOF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. 167 hot iron. 'The moderns rejected the hot iron as frightfulj dangerous and unnecelfary. I think we would do well to refume it. It makes an open- ing in the membrana pituitaria by a real lofs of fubftance, which does not fo eafily clofe up again. I now look upon it as indifpenfably neceifary to perforate the os unguis with a hot iron ; or at lealt after it has been perforated with Potts’ tro- car, to introduce a hot iron or fome kind of cau- ilic. The latter way however is attended with greater difficulty than the former. I would intro- duce the caullic repeatedly during the lirll days after the perforation. / This method is not neceifary when a canula is introduced, but the canula is eafdy obltrudted, or falls out, and is not at all a certain means. The operation for the fiftula lachrymalis is in ge- neral an uncertain operation. It feldom reltores the functions of the lachrymal ducts to their former perfection; there generally remains a falling of M 4 tearsi68 OF THE FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. tears over the cheek, and feveral other little com- plaints, lb that in the end the patient derives little, frequently no advantage at all from the opera- tion. I therefore advife every one again!! undertak- ing this operation, unlefs fome fymptom attend the difeafe which is either dangerous or very trouble- fume. The operation removes thefe fymptoms, and by removing them, does the patient an eflen- tial fervice. In all other cafes the difeafe conti- • ■ * nues for many years, without caufing the patient much uneafinefs, and without any danger, if hq only pay a little attention to it. G H A P. \OF THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. 169 C H A P. XI. l OF THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. Lvdovic Frederick Ernst, a weaver from Grohnde, was admitted into the liofpital on the 14th of December. ■ i Fie had been always healthy from his infancy. At the end of June he caught cold, while he was much heated, and foon after he felt pains in his arms, Ihoulders and back. lie took fomething to make him fweat, by which the pains in the upper parts of his body went away, but remained about the hip-joint, where they continued fixed and in- creafingI 7° OF THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. creafing more and more, fo that at Michaelmas he could not walk. At lad the whole limb grew fhorter, and he be- came perfectly lame. The pains extended from the hip joint down to the foot. He felt as if ants were running about in the foot. He was totally unable to move the limb to either fide, which in other refpedts was warm and properly nouriflied. Such was his fituation when he came into the hof- pital. On the 5th of December I ordered for him pills compofed of antimon. crud. et ftipit. dulcamar. and the warm bath every evening. He fweated every night, but the pains remained the fame. On the 8th a blitter was applied to the moft painful part in the region of the loins, which rofe very well and was long kept open. On the 10th a blitter was applied to the outer fide of -the thigh upon the joint. OnI7£ OF THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. On the nth he could move the leg a little. In the evening he got a powder compoled ol cam- phor, ipecacuanha and opium, and a tepid bath before it. He fweated profufely during the night: the pains in the loins diminifhed. 14th. The pains in the loins became again more violent. Another blifter was applied to the fame place, upon which they again diminifhed. The powders were continued. 16th. He could pow move the leg better. The laft blifter was heal. Another was immedi- ately applied to the inner part of the knee, where the patient felt pains. It alfo rofe very well, and w'as kept open. The powder with the tepid baths in the evening were continued. 18th. After the laft blifter an oedematous fwel- ing in the foot made its appearance. The bath was difcontinued. 20th. The patient could now walk and move the172 OF THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. the thigh as well as the leg. He only wanted the neceftary firmnefs, for he daggered in walking, particularly when he relied on the lame foot. 24th. A blillering pi after, four fingers breadth, was applied above the knee on theinfideof the thigh, where he felt a painful tenfion ; it was kept in fup- puration for twelve days. He was now in other refpedts hearty and well, and eat his meat with appetite. The powders were continued. 26th. After the laft blifter the thigh fwelled al- fo, and became oedematous, but this foon went away. He now felt pains on the outfide of the 9 thigh along the knee, for which reafon a blifter was applied to the top of the fibula. Jan. 6* He could walk quite well without a Hick, and move the lame leg as well as the other. Only he had ftill fome pains in the loins, which gave way to the volatile liniment. 18th. Perfectly recovered, and he made ufe of the*73 OF THE 1SCHIAS NERVOSA. the lame leg with the fame freedom and ftrength as the found one. 21ft. He was difmiffed. OBSERV. LIU. L. a. a married woman in ]ier 35th year, was admitted into the hofpital on the 17th of May. She was quite lame of the right leg, and perfeHly unable to move either the thigh or foot in the fmalleft degree. The limb was at the fame time at leaf! three inches fhoi tei than the other, cold as ice, anci 10 emaciated that it was not more than half the fize of the found one. At the fame time hie complained of pam in the whole limb, but chiefly about the trochanter, which was even painful on being roughly touch- ed. The trochanter was in its proper place and fi- xation. There was therefore no idea of a dis- location. Befides all the motions of the thigh could be freely made, without any impediment. There was neither rednefs nor fwelling to be 00- ferved0F THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. 174 ferved about the joint externally. The woman was in other refpedts pretty well, and without any fever. She could give us no other account of the caufe or manner in which the difeafe had come on, but that fhe had been in that fituation for ten months, that it began with violent pains in the thigh, which extended through the whole limb: that thefe pains had been lefs violent for fome time, and were now confined chiefly to the hip- joint. By means of five burning cylinders, (See Oeuvr. pofth. de M. Pouteau, P. I. or Chir. Bibl. Vol. VII. p. 305.) and four bliflers, this woman was in feventeen weeks fo perfectly refiored to health that there hardly remained a vefiige of the difeafe behind. I caufed the burning cylinders to be applied fucceffively, at intervals generally of ten to eighteen days, always to the place where the pain at the time was mod violent. The pain always left the place where a burning cylin- der had been applied, in about from eight to eighteenOF THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. i7 5 eighteen days, fo that we could always chufe a- nother fituation for the next cylinder. After five cylinders had been in this manner fucceflively applied, all at a greater 01 lefs d tance from the trochanter, the thigh was quite free from pain : but pains now made their ap- pearance in the leg in different places, which however were lefs violent than thofe in the thigh. Upon thefe places, four blifters were fucceff.vely applied, each of which was for fometime made to difcharge pus. All this took place by degrees and with conftantly increafing amendment, till at laft there was not a pained part remaining, and theufeofthe limb was then alfo perfeaiy ie- flored. During the whole time of the cure, the limb was carefully rubbed with a mixture of equal parts of the fpir. fal. —on. and tinft. can- tharkl. In the fame manner a young man aged 21 years was cured; he had a limilar lamenefs of the left leg, but the limb was not wafted. The te-OF THE ISCHIAS NERVOSA. 176 cond cylinder had already the effect of reftoring the ufe of the limb : but foon after he was attack- ed with pains in all his limbs, which refembled the rkeumatifmus vagus, and were by degrees re- t moved by antimony, dulcamara and guaiacum. I could relate a few cafes more of this kind, but they are quite fimilar to thofe already men- tioned. I have employed in various ways the fame means in fimilar cafes, fometimes altogether without fuccefs. It appears to me that nothing is to be expected from it, except in fuch kinds of lamenefs as proceed from the metajiafis of any kind of flimulating matter, or to fpeak more plain- ly, where the lamenefs is accompanied with pains in the fuffering limb and chiefly about the hip- joint. Cafes of this kind, where the limb is fhortened are fometimes obferved under the name of luaatio fpontanca. But no dillocation is difcovered ; the caufe of the fhortening lies entirely in the muf- cles, which draw the limb up, and which by the morbificOF THE ISCHTAS NERVOSA. 177 N CHAP, morbific matter which atts upon them, as the fler- no majioideus in the caput objlipum, are Simulated to contract and fhorten themfelves. This morbi- fic matter is for the moll part rheumatic or gouty. I have however feen a few caies of it in boys, where I had great reafon to confider it as fcrophu- lous. 1 I caufe the cylinder to be made ot cotton or charpee according to Pouteau’s model, of about the length and thicknefs of three quarters of an inch. That they may not be difplaced by the blowing of the bellows, I fallen them to the fkin by means of a fmall ftripe of flicking plafter. When the cylinder is allowed to be quite burnt to allies upon the place, the effects of the fire never extend further than through the Ikin into the cel- lular membrane. The elcar occafioned by the burn is generally very long of leparating, and the wound left after this is long of healing. Upon the whole its employment is not attended with fo much pain, as the appearance of it would incline one to believe.17^ AN ULCERATION OF THE TONGUE. CHAP. XII. I AN ULCERATION OF THE TONGUE. 1 have feen feveral cafes of ulcerations in the lips, in the nole, alae nafi, and noftrils, fo obfti- nate, and with Inch a bad appearance, that they well might have been called carcinomatous, which were yet cured merely by folutive neutral falls, and repeated emetics and purgatives ; and hence I think that they frequently arife from irritations in the pra?cordia alone. I believe it is certain that many fuch ulcerations have been touched with the knife and cauflics, which might have been cured merely by medicines which clear the bowels. Piiyfi-AN ULCERATION OF THE TONGUE. 179 Phyficians who know how frequently an eruption on the lips accompanies gaflric difeafes, will not be furprifed at this after tion. I fliall relate only one cafe of this kind. OB3ERV. LIV. Joh. Pabel, aged 30 years, was admitted into the hofpital on the 28th of A- pril 1787. He had an ulcer on the tongue, which was extremely painful, emitted a very fetid fmell, and had corroded the fore part of the tongue. The edges of the ulcer were fwelled and hard. He at the fame time complained of a cough, a hitch in his left bread, bad take, and every fymptom which indicates impurities, acrimony, and obftruftions in the abdomen. I ordered for him foluble tartar with extract, graminis, and on the third day a vomit, which eva- cuated a great quantity of bilious flime and gall, with great relief and diminution of all his com- plaints. 1 I made thefe medicines be repeated with the N I 2 famel8o AN ulceration of the tongue. CHAT. good effects, and as he now had no complaint ex- cept the ulcer, I ordered it to be frequently mois- tened with a folution of fifteen grains of white vi- triol in fix ounces of fage tea. In eight days the ulcer became quite clean, all hardnefs vanifhed, and new firm flefh rofe from the whole furface. A wafli of decodtion of Peru- vian bark and alum foon dried it up, and on the 26th of May, he was difmifTed perfectly well. It is remarkable that the point of the tongue, which had been entirely deflroyed, tvas completely regenerated.181 A CASE OF ENTROPIUM- CHAP. XIII. A CASE OF ENTROPIUM. OBSERV. LV. Joh. Geo. Lineneiose, set. 28, was admitted into the hofpital on the 2d of Au- n-uft. He had been affected with rheumatic com- o plaints fince his twelfth year, which hitherto had attacked him every year, but at uncertain times, and each time had forced him to keep his bed for three weeks. The matter always fell chiefly upon his bieaff, fo that cough with bloody expectoration was the confequence. The difeafe then difappeared with "N" a fvveat,A CASI OF ENTROPIUM. 182 a fweat, without leaving any complaint behind, except weaknefs of his breaft. In the laft attack the matter had partly thrown itfelf upon the eyes, and after it, there remained an i obftinate inflammation of the eyes, chiefly of the right one, which was at laft alfo accompanied with an entropium. As the patient was otherwife in perfect health, I ordered for him, without previous evacuations, a mixture compofed of an ounce of vin. antimon. and half a drachm of extract, aconit. of which he took 16 drops every three hours. Aug. 14th. The inflammation of the left eye,, in which there was no entropium, was totally gone, and that eye was quite clear and tranfpar- ent. In the right eye the inflammation was much diminifhed, and what remained was to be confider- ed merely as the effedt of the entropium.A CASE OF ENTROPIUM. 183 CHAP. Aug. 23d. I operated upon the entropium and united the wound. 31. The wound was heal. The hairs and eye- lids were in their proper pofition. I made h.m ufe a folution of white vitriol as an eye-water, as the cornea of the eye on which the operation had been performed was very opaque. I have often performed the operation for the entropium, and have for the moil part found, that however much fkin I had cut away, I Hill had not cut off enough, and that confequently I had only leifened, not cured the entropium. The external fkin of the eye-lid is fo extenfible that 1 advLfe e- very one to cut off more, and indeed much more of the external fkin of the eye-lid than appears ne- ceffary. N 4i34 A CASE OF ANGINA e H A P. XIV. A CASE OF ANGINA PHARYNGEA SUPPURA- TORIA. I OBSERV. LVI. Geo. Schachtebec, from Diemarn, aged 46 years, was admitted into the hofpital on the 23d of Auguft. A few days before he had been feized with a painful fwelling in his throat, which rendered both fpeaking and fwallowing very difficult. His tongue at the fame time was very much furred, and he had bitter talle, headach, and a full but foft pulfe. HePHARYNGEA SUPPURATORIA. 185 He got foluble tartar, and next day tartar emet. gr. iv, which however neither operated upwards nor downwards. A fecond vomit of ipecacuanha and tartar eme- tic, which he took on the 25th, only produced two ftools the next day, after which he thought him- felf fomewhat relieved, both with regard to fpeak- ing and fwallowing. 27th. An ulcer fuddenly broke in the throat. The patient fpit out a great quantity of matter, but the fource of it could not be difcovered, nor before on examining the mouth and throat could any fwelling be feen. From the feat of the pain the free unimpeded refpiration, and the difficulty of fwallowing, I fuppofed it to have been feated in the pharynx. 28th. Little pain, diflinct articulation, degluti- tion more eafy, tongue clean, appetite good. Pu- rulent matter continues to be difcharged. 29th. Thei86 A CASE OF ANGINA PHARYNGEA, c. 29th. The difcharge of matter diminifhed. 30th. Free from complaint : difcharge gone. Sept. ill. He went out of the hofpital. It is however a very rare thing that inflamma- tion of the pharynx fhould thus end in fuppura- tion. CHAP. / 4OF ACID IN THE STOMACH. 187 CHAP. XV. ✓ GF ACID IN THE STOMACH OBSERV. LVII. C. K. a flrong healthy country girl of 27 years of age, had had St. Vi- tus’s dance for half a year, the attacks of which were gradually become more frequent and violent, fo that there wras feldom a day palled that flie had not a lit. The appearances in the attacks were indeed very different, but fhe commonly at firk felt a great anxiety in the praecordia, and then there came on convullions and ftrange contortions of the face. She frequently opened her mouth mon- ftroully wide for a quarter of an hour together, thenOF ACID IN THE STOMACH. 188 then flie would grind her teeth for fome minutes, fhake her head, fquint with her eyes, in fliort there is not a grimace file did not make, and many of them were really frightful. At the end of the fit a great quantity of wind generally came up. She could not give us the final left information with regard to the caufe of her complaints. She knew nothing of any eruption that had ftruck in, nothing of having caught cold, nothing of any o- ther probable caufe. She only complained that flie had conftantly a tafte of acid, as ftrong as vinegar in her mouth, that every thing flie eat tailed four, that her appetite was very irregular, fometimes good, fometimes bad, and that flie had feveral t;mes fpontaneoufly thrown up a pure un- mixed grafs green bile, which was as four as vi- negar. For four weeks all kinds of medicines were # given to fulfil a variety of little indications, but in vain. Vomits always evacuated a quantity of fourOF ACID IN THE STOMACH. 189 lour Huff, which let her teeth on edge and pained her throat without any evident relief. Cathartics feemed to aggravate the fymptoms and to weaken the patient. I allowed her nothing but animal food, and {lie complained of acid as much as be- fore. Bitters procured no relief. Abforbents diminifhed the acid hardly for an houi. After all thefe fruitlefs attempts, I ordered her a mixture of equal parts of afa foetida and ox s gall of which flie took a fcruple thrice a day. The good effcds of this medicine were evident the fe- cond day. The attack was that day very gentle, and the lak Hie had. The acid take diminifhed. In eight days there was not the leak either of the fenfe of acid, nor of the St. Vitus’dance remaining. She continued this medicine for three weeks, culling which flie remained free from every complaint, and after kie had taken quakia for eight days, I difmiffed her. 'Acid in the primae vise is certainly of two kinds, arifing from two different fources. It is fome- times190 OF ACID IN THE STOMACH. times plainly the confequence of a corruptio fpon- tanea of acids taken in by the mouth, or of meat and drink which have become four ; and in this cafe it only incommodes the patient when he has taken fuch meat or drink, it is eafily and conftant- ly blunted by alkaline or abforbent medicines, and keeps away as long as the patient carefully ufes a diaia antacida. Medicines which ftrengthen df- geftion, with an antacid diet, generally cure the patient of this acid. \ But fometimes the patient is incelfantly tor- mented with acid, eat what he will, even though he only takes animal foo$l. Even when he takes nothing at all, the acid torments him. None of the medicines which blunt acidity are of any ufe, or they only procure him a fhort mitigation. And in this cafe the acid is not the produce of a cor- ruptio fpontanea, but a fecretio pervcrfa liquorurn menjiruorum. The patient, as Kaempf fays, has a brewery of vinegar in his homach. The diges- tive fluids themfelves are four, becaufe an irrita- tion ads on the fecretory organs, and fo deranges theirOF ACID IN THE STOMACH. 191 their operations, that they make out a very differ- ent product from what they lhouid do. The bile itfelf is in fuch cafes as four as vitriolic acid. And in all thefe cafes an irritation is to blame, which difturbs the fecretory organs ; and every thing depends on finding out this irritation and re- moving it. Kaempf mentions the cafe of a pa- tient who had fuch a brewing of vinegar in the ftomach. When the irritation cannot be difeovered, and in the cafe above related it could not be found out, the pills which I have formerly fpoken of, compofed of equal parts of afa foetida and ox’s bile, are of fo great ule, that 1 can now from ex- perience recommend them almofi as a fpecific. Perhaps they act merely as antifpafmodics, which leffen or quite counteract the effect of the un- known flimulus on the fecretory organs of digef- tion. CHAP.*92 a CASE OF PETECHLE WITHOUT FEVER. CHAP. XVI. A CASE OF petechia: without fever. A ccording to moil obfervations, theie petechiae appear to be of a fcorbutic nature. In the fol- lowing cafe it was not fo, they were purely of a bilious nature. OBSERV. LVIII. J. A. Scpimeidel, a glover, aged 30 years, had gone out of the hofpital on the 18th of May, after having had a tertian fever, which to all appearance was perfectly cured. The fever had indeed left him, but as he was anxious to return to his work, he concealed his feeling of a greatA CASE OF PETECHIiE WITHOUT FEVER 193 a great degree of laflitude, and that though he re- li£hed his meat, he did not regain his ftrength. k ■4, For eight days the laflitude hadincreafed fo much that he could no longer work. Iiis legs alio be- gan to fwell, and on the 17th of July he again pre- # fented himfelf at the liofpital. There were, particularly on his thighs and feet, (but aifo on the other parts of his body,) great fpots and llreaks of a dark red colour inclining to blue, not at sell painful, of various fizes, fome of them very large, and between thefe again there were many fmall brown and black fpots or llreaks, which had perfectly the appearance of petechiae. As his tongue was very foul, and his pulfe fmall, the potio Riverii with tartar emetic was prefcribed for him, and on the 19th of July an emetic, which operated fix times and brought up much bile. The patient found himfelf much re- lieved from this ; the fwellingof the feet diminilh- ed, and the great breaks had partly difappeared, O * while*94 A CASE Ox* PETECHIA WITHOUT FEVER. while thofe which remained were lefs marked of di'ftinft. He got the potio Riverii and tartar emetic once more. i July 25th. The petechias remained unchanged. The hitherto very frnall pulfe had rifen much. 4 The fwelling of the feet diminifhed more and more. On the 26th of July he got another vomit, which again brought up much bile. The pete- * chiae now were not of fo dark a colour, or rather they were become very pale, and the epidermis f parated in the places where the great llreaks had been. July 28th. As the petechias had remained the fame for two days, and as the tongue was dill foul, he got a third vomit, which alfo brought away m much bile. The night after the petechiae totally difappe'ared, and next morning the patient felt himielf quite well. HeI A CASE OF PETECHliE WITHOUT FEVER. 195 He now took elix. vitriol. Mynf. and left the hofpital on the 4th of Auguft in the belt health. \ G 2 G H A V»OF EIL10U.3 FEVERS i CHAP. XVII. OF BILIOUS FEVERS. I should weary my readers were T to relate particular cafes of this very frequent difeafe. I fhall therefore only give them the refult of my ob- fervations, 1 fhall only communicate fuch of my opinions concerning bilious fevers in general, as from what I have feen of thcfe levers, and atten- tively and dcliberate'y obferved, I can eflablifh for truth ; and I believe that every reflecting in- telligent phyfician will, in reviewing his own prac- tice, recolleft fuch lads as will llrengthen every pofition which I fhall advance. I hereI97 OF BlLfOUS FEVERS. I here ufe the term bilious fever in the mod ex- tenfive fenfe, and underhand by it not fuch fevers only, as arife folely or chiefly from fuperabun- dant or morbid bile, but alfo all tliofe in which the morbid matter is evacuated either altogether, or principally by the inteftinal canal, whether by na- ture or by art. I fpeak therefore of fuch fevers as are cured chiefly by emetics and purgatives, and for which the moll proper name would be Jlomachic, intef- tinal, or gajlric fevers. The whole fcience of medicine confifls at pre- fent almoft entirely in the art of vomiting and purging; and it is now I think full time to lay fomething about a practice lo univerfal as this is. A weak ftomach and weak nerves are univer- sally complained of, but people do not confider that thefe afle&ions are for the moll part merely the confequence of the fafhionabie abufe ol eme- tics, purgatives, and of weakening neutral falts. O 3 PeopleOF BILIOUS FEVERS. People complain that fo many difeafes now af- fume a gallric charafter, and do not reflect that many ol them are, quite contrary to the intention of nature, forced into this Hate by art, that much morbid matter is forcibly and with great lofs of flrength evacuated by the inteflines, which might have been much more eafdy removed by the fkin, or any other excretory organ, without thus facri- ficing the digeflive powers. % However much I may be convinced that eme- tics and purgatives are among the mod effectual medicines in a great number of difeafes, I am alfo certain that in many cafes they are prepofleroufly made ufe of, to the great injury of patients, and I have too often been a fpecfator and witnels of their fatal effects. For many phyficians are daily in the cuftom,when they are at a lofs what to do, and where they fliould do nothing at all, to give a purgath e fait. That I may arrange my experiments and proofs with regard to the ufe and abufe of evacuants in dileafes.I99 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. difeafes of the primae viae, 1 fhall determine the \ principal cafes which occur in thefe difeafes, and point out where, according to my opinion, eva- cuations may properly or improperly be made ufe of in each of them. Firft principal Cafe. Sometimes in acute or chronic galtric complaints, bilious or other a- crimonies, and putrid, irritating and hurtful mat- ters, are lodged in the intellinal canal itfelf, or fo near to it, that they readily flow into it, and are actually the only, and the proximate caufe of the difeafe. Thefe might be called itomachic or in- teftinal fevers, accordingly as the morbid matter occupied the upper or the lower part of the intef- tinal canal. In thefe cafes the local fymptoms of intellinal impurities are always evident, bitter 01 bad tafle in the mouth, foul tongue, total want of appetite and averfion to food, letid emulations, weignt and fulnefs about the region of the flomach, dull pain200 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. in the forehead, tension of the abdomen, pains in the loins and knees, fetid breath. &c. This is the proper cafe for emetics and purga- tives. Here emetics and purgatives are the on- ly medicines; here they fhould be given with- out any preparation or lofs of time; here by ex- hacking the whole morbid matter they produce an immediate change. This indeed is a very com- mon difeafe, owing to that weaknefs of the bow- els which is now fo prevalent, acrimonies being eafilv generated and collected in them, or thrown upon them from the whole mafs of fluids. Innu- merable are the acute and chronic difeafes be- longing to this head, and which are cured by eme- tics and purgatives alone. There is one fault however which a phyfician fometimes commits here, and for the moll part when ho.thinks he is doing perfectly right. This is the too 1 ng continuation of the attenuating and evacuating medicines ; he fancies to himfelf that the impurities have been long fixed, and in order thoroughlyOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 201 iiiorougbl) to cleanfe his patient, and to leave no- thing noxious behind, he weakens his organs of digellion, and by perfifling in the ule ofthefe me- dicines too long, lubjeCfs him lor life to flomachic complaints. And what is worll of all, every appearance of thefe cafes juflifies his fufpicion of fixed impuri- ties of long Handing, and confirms him in his de- fign of once for all making a clean houfe. The longer he continues to give his attenuating medi- cines, particularly neutral falts, the tongue be- comes lb much the fouler, and the appetite fo much the worfe, fo many more fymptoms of local intef- tinal impurities appear, that the phyfician conti- nues to diffolve and evacuate, without confider- % ing that he is himfeif the caufe of ail this noxious matter in the inteftines, becaufe he keeps up the afflux of fluids to the inteftines, by continuing to irritate them, and promotes the evacuations from the mafs of blood into the canal, while he dimin- ifhes other evacuations, elpecially that by the fkin, and weakens the digefiive powers. The molt ■ healthyOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 202 healthy perfon will get a foul tongue, and lofe hig appetite, if he take neutral halts feveral days fol- lowing. But more of this on another occafion. Second principal Cafe. Sometimes the chief caufe of the fever is not at firft in the primae vise, but in the mafs of blood. It is at firft a febris ve- nofa, in which however the morbific matter is cer- tainly at laft thrown upon the inteftines, and total- ly evacuated by them. But it is thrown upon the inteftines as if per crifin ; a concoflion muft take place before this happens, in the fame manner as it is thrown upon the (kin by a critical fweat. The great fault which a phylician may here commit, is too early an evacuation. I frequent- ly hear it faid, if he had only vomited and purg- ed immediately, while I frequently find reafon to wifh that he had neither vomited nor purged fo Toon. / It is of great importance that no premature e- vacuation fliould be made. It is here as danger- ous,203 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. ous, immediately to give evacuants, as it is to adminifter diaphoretics at the beginning of fuch difeafes, as are at lall to be removed by a critical fweat. It is only after previous concodtion that a crifis evacuates the morbific matter by the (kin. It is alfo a crifis which evacuates the morbific matter by the intefiines. And there is no crifis without previous concodtion. While the concodtion is going on, and till the crifis happen, the phyfician has nothing to do but to watch over nature, that he may obferve in time the way file chules for the evacuation of the morbific matter ; he ought to take no Heps till he be fure nature will follow him, and in the mean while, he fliould remove every obfiacle to con- coction, and moderate the fymptoms which are violent about that particular time. Phyficians much more frequently do harm by doing too much, than by negligence and doing too little. *Jk Strong purgatives, too early given, are par- ticularly hurtful here; they may even render the204 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. the mod fimple gafhric difeafe fatal. They do not evacuate any of the febrile matter, which is not yet ready for evacuation ; they debilitate, in- terrupt the conco&ion, and diforder the whole courfe of the difeafe. Befides by the premature and unguarded ufe of purgatives, for the mod part a difpofition to di- arrhoea is occafioned, which is very difficult to remove ; almoft every medicine then adfs as a purgative, fo that fault once committed, can ne- ver after be repaired. And now when the courfe of the difenfe is to- tally deranged, when the powers of nature are weakened, when the cnfis is difturbed, and a hun- dred anomalous fymptoms rife up, the difeafe is called a malignant bilious fever, the patient dies, and every one is fatisfied with the mere name of malignant bilious fever. There is a kind of gaftric fever, which I think might be called atrabilious. This fever would appearOF BILIOUS FEVF.RS. 205 appear to arife from fixed ftimuli in the abdomi- nal vifcera. Before it makes its appearance, the patient has every fymptom of irritation and ob- ftru&ion in the vifcera. The fever is not violent, and flools of a pitchy appearance, which follow fometimes flowly, fometimes late, remove it in time. I hardly know of any cafe, where cathartics rafhly and too early given are more hurtful than in this. Every thing depends upon the continued ufe of attenuants. Emetics and purgatives muff never be given, till there is the greatefl probabili- ty of there being fomething noxious in the primae viae which may be evacuated, and even then e- 1 metics and purges, muft be given fparingly and with caution. It is indeed fometimes difficult, when the fever is fUllalmofl entirely venous, to difcover at firft itsgaf- tric character; that is,to forefee thatthe crifis points to the bowels, that the febrile matter will pafs oil by the inteflines ; and molt neceffary it is to know thisOF BILIOUS FEVERS. io6 this beforehand, that blunders may be avoided in the method of cure, which might have the worft and even fatal confequences. The following circumftances will however, in moll cafes, enable the phyfician to difeover from the very firft, the gallric character of fevers, when no fymptoms of local affection of the intef- tines yet exiff* The prevailing epidemic, and I may add the prevailing endemic charafter deferves attention. A phyfician has reafon to fuppofe that a fever of an undetermined character will affume that form which is moll common at the time. The pulfe which in the moll common cafes, is never fo full nor fo hard, as in inflammatory fe- vers, never fo funk nor fo fmall as in putrid fe- vers, is for the molt part of a middling flrength, and is remarkable for its quicknefs chiefly. 1 he moderate heat of this fever, which ne- ver207 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. ver mounts to that degree which takes place in inflammatory and putrid fevers, is frequently al- mofl natuial, and never bears any proportion to the quicknefs ol the pulle or to the general di- flrefs which the patient feels. He is frequently very ill with very little preternatural heat, and • \ the pulfe fometimes beats very quickly, when the heat is hardly fo great as natural. The evident and flrong remijjiom of the fever arc remarkable. It may almoft be confideredas a gene- ral rule, with fome exceptions, that a fever is the .more certainly gaftric, the more evident its remif- fions and exacerbations are. The urine being more or lefs of a faflron colour, a rednefs of the cheeks refembling the colour of minium (Stoll), a green and yellowifh colour upon the fides of the nofe and mouth, eyes fhining and fwimming in tears, tremor of the tongue when the patient puts it out, and of the under lip in fpeaking, are alfo circumflances attending the gaftric fever. ThereOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 208 There is Hill another mark which in doubtful cafes will for the moil part remove all uncertain- ty ; a bleeding by way of experiment, which however can only be admiflible when the pulfe is full and (harp, and even then it muft not exceed three or four ounces. When the patient feels himfelf much weakened by the lofs of fo fmall a quantity of blood, and fenfibly worfe in other re- fpedls, and when the pulfe links much, then there is the higheft degree of probability that the fever is gaftric, efpecially if the above mentioned fymp- toms be alfo prefent. And if after all this, the phyfician fhould hill remain doubtful, it will be fafer to do nothing and to wait patiently ; he fhould at leak be cautious not to do too much, and fhould not undertake any decifive meafures. Too great activity here is frequently fatal. But it is unneceflary for my prefent purpofe to add more on this head. Third principal Cafe. After the concodlion has • taken place in the bilious fevers of the fecond matter209 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. kind, nature aoes not always expel the morbific matter from the general circulating mafs by the intefiinal canal alone ; fometimes flie evacuates a part at leak by the (kin and kidneys ; and thefe aie tne bilious levers in. which a critical fweat, and a flow of urine are oblerved. They may be called mixed gaftrie fevers. The crifis by fweat and urine, appears at dif- ferent periods of thefe levers, either at the fame time that the evacuations by the intefiinal canal take place, or at the end or the difeafe, and after \ the evacuations by the inteftines are finilhed; but the latter is more frequent. In this cafe the fe- ver goes through as it were three llages. In the firft it is venous, in the fecond gahric, in the third it is again venous. Emetics and purgatives are proper and ufeful only in the middle, or gahric flage of the difeafe. The phyfician who gives emetics and purga- tives in the fecond ftage with the beh fuccefs, and hopes that what remains of the difeafe may be P com-210 Or BIX IOUS FEVERS. completely evacuated by the fame means, con- tinues his attenuants and evacuants in the third ft age, thinking to direct the morbific matter en- tirely to the intefiines, while it is the intention of nature to throw off thefe acrimonies by the Ikin. But all his ill diredted care ferves only to inter- rupt this defign of nature, deranges the true crifis, and weakens the patient; and when the crifis is thus difiurbed, the acrimonies retained, and the body become weak and irritable, a thoufand jfirange fymptoms, chiefly of a fpafmodic nature, enfue, and the difeafe, under the tittle of biliary nervous fevers, ends in death. Every Ample bilious fever may by mifmanage- ment undergo a change fimilar to that juff defcrib- cd ; but fuch changes molt frequently occur a- mong petechial, miliary, bilious catarrhal, and bili- ary rheumatic fevers, and in fhort among all fe- vers whofe morbific matter is for the molt part not thrown off by the inteffines alone, but partly alfo by the lkin. The211 OF BILIOUS FEVER5, rile Ri"t of the phyfician conlifts in marking the point of time, when purgatives are no longer ufe- ful, and when diaphoretics become nectffary ; and the phyfician who is not folely occupied with what he fhould do himfelf, but alfo attends to what nature wifhes to do, will for the mod part be able to obferve this period pretty ac- curately. It is not to be fuppofed that we can evacuate by the inteftines the morbific matter which nature intends to throw off by the furface. 'This in many cafes is as .impoffible, as to convey through the inteftines by repeated purgatives the variolous poifon, which nature has deftined to the fkin. I fhall mention a cafe of this kind, in which the indications to evacuate by the inteftines and the fkin were much intermingled and very change- able. OBSERV. LIX. Ci-ir. Kohlmeyer, a mil- P 2 ler2 12 OF BILIOUS FEVER.S. I ler of Eichsfelde, aged 23, a firong healthy man, on the third of November caurht a cold, which was followed by a cough, with much of a yellow, greenilh, thick, mucous expectoration. Some days afterwards he had a quarrel in the fields, and in the fcuffle, he tell into the water. He remain- ed the whole day in his wet cloaths, and in the evening he was feized with a fevtrifh fit, attended with headach and fpontaneous vomiting, by w hich he threw up a great quantity ol bilious matter. On the 14th of November he came into the hofpital, after he had made life of various medi- cines, chiefly diaphoretics. He now complained ol lalfnude in ali his limbs, of wandering pains, chiefly in the breafi, violent headach juft above th.e eyes, and at the root of the nofe. vertigo, bitter tafie, and inclination to vomit. His eyes were fhining and watery, the white of them a little yellow, the whole countenance apeared yellow, and there was a circumfcribed firong rednefs upon the cheeks. HeOF BILIOUS FEVERS. He was not quite recollected, and gave wrong anfwers to the queltions put to him. He felt very hot, complained ol tenfion about the praecor- dia, had a quick, full and foft pulfe, thin fetid, ftocls, and his mine was of a falfron colour. / He immediately got an emetic, by which he threw up five times, evacuated much bile, and had four fiools, which were very fetid. 15th. The bitter tafte and inclination to vomit were gone. His headach was lefs violent. He got the potio Riverii. 16th. Little fleep. Evident remiflions. Again violent headach, bitter tafte, and a great inclina- tion to vomit, tenfion of praecordia, coftivenefs, faffron coloured urine, more heat, and his face very red, mixed with a yellownefs. He got tartar emetic, threw up fix times, evacuated much bile, and had three fetid ftools. 17th. Mitigation of all the fymptoms ; the 11- P3 rine214 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. urine had fome fediment. The remiffion of the fever was more evident. The potio Rlverii was repeated. > 18th. He had flept a little during the night. The pains in the limbs and bread were lefs fevere, but the cough was worfe, and he expectorated I with difficulty fome clear mucus. 19th. Little deep, much third, fome bitter tade, headach, codivenefs. Tamarind whey was prefcribed, which gently opened his belly. In the evening there was an increafe of fever and of all the other fymptoms. 1 20th. Bitter tade increafed, as well as the headach. Difgud at food. Five grains of tartar emetic occafioned four bilious vomitings, and fe- veral fetid dools. 2 id. Six whitidi dools, though he only took a table fpoonful of potio Riverii every three hours. He coughed much, particulary in the night time, and2I5 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. and had a fixed pain in the left fide under the fhort ribs. The .fever upon the whole was milder, but the evening exacerbations were pretty flrong. Sal ammoniac and finall dofes of tartar emetic were prefcribed. 2 2d. The patient had perfpired gently during the night with much relief. The bitter tafte and headach had totally left him. He had fome ap- petite. A blifter was applied to the pained part of the fide. 23d. The patient was fo well that he was three hours out of bed. * 24th. Return of headach, bitter tafte, tenfion in the praecordia, and much thirft. 1‘oui grains of tartar emetic produced vomiting four times of a bilious and flimy matter, and feveral fetid itools. B 25th. Better in every refpeft. The volatile liniment removed a violent Hitch ol his light ixL. P 4 26th.21 6 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. 26th. Some hours deep. Mach cough. Skin very dry. The pulfe quick, fmall. and tenfe.- He got a mixture of Elder flower water, fpiritUs Mindereri and Huxham’s antimonial wine. 27th. Gentle perfpiration during the night, and in the morning he was evidently relieved. He however ftill coughed much, and alfo Hill had at times flitches in the bread. The urine was crude and watery, the belly coflive. He only got this day tartar emetic in fmall dofes, and weak tama- rind whey for common drink. 28th. He had flept well for fome hours, per- fpired gently, and found himfelf very well. 29th. He had a refflefs night, and no perfpi- ration. The fkin was very dry, the pulfe fmall, quick and irritable, belly regular, urine watery, tongue clean but dry, appetite pretty good, head clear, wandering pains in the bread. Towards evening an evident exacerbation without fliiver- ing. The fame medicines were continued, and he had befides a warm bath. 3°tU.OF BILIOUS FEVERS. 2I7 30th. He found himfelf very well and he had perfpired a little. The warm bath was therefore repeated. Soon after the bath he complained of headach, lafFitude and oppreffion at the bread. He got eight grains of tartar emetic in the after- noon, which however produced no vomiting, but only fome ftools of proper confidence but very bad fmell. He then got a dram and a half of Epfom fait, which produced five more fetid ftools. % Dec. 1 ft. He had flept very well for feveral hours. The cough was very gentle, and expec- toration eafy. The pains of the bread were gone. No bad tafte in the mouth, appetite good, pulfe more calm. Soluble tartar was prefcribed, which kept his belly gently lax. 2d. and 3d. He found himfelf very well. Pulfe during the day quite calm and natural. In the evening he had a flight feverifh fit, attended with delirium. A dole of Epfom ialt procured four ftools, which were of a brownifh colour and very fetid2l8 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. fetid, after which the patient became very quiet ancl was much relieved. 4th. Stools again quite natural. He felt him- felf more fatigued than formerly. The foluble tartar was difcontinued, and fpirit. mindereri with manna ordered. The evening fever approached more and more to a flow one. The pulfe during the paroxyfm was fmall and beat no times in a minute. The urine appeared pale and watery. The patient was delirious the whole night s * % , 4 6th. The pain again attacked the fame place in his left fide. A blifter removed it. The fpiritus mindereri with manna occafioned four watery mu- cous flools, which fatigued the patient much. 7th. Though the medicine was given in fmall dofes, and very feldom, he had fix inoflfenfive llools, which were again followed with much pro- itraticn of ftrength. 8th. The patient was delirious almofl the wholeOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 219 whole day, coughed much, and had again four ftools. An infuf. decoft. rad. valer. with fpirit minderer. vin. antimon. Huxham and fyrup. dia- cod. were given, and a decoction of falep for com- mon drink. 9th. Four watery ftools. The patient was lefs delirious ; ai# in the evening in place of the feverifh fit, he only had fome‘ irritation in his pulfe. * 10th to 12th. Four ftools daily. The ftools ftill quite inoflenfive, but of the confidence of a cata- plafm. The appetite and digeftion improved. The ftrength increafed a little. The medicine of the 8th was continued. 13th to 18th. He continued to recover and to gain ftrength. The medicines of the 8th were omitted, and he only takes falep. Fie is alfo al- lowed foup and beer. Pulfe more calm and flower. Cough diminifhed. 20th. GrowsO -V'-'V Am mm OF BILIOUS FEVERS, 20th. Grows better in every rcfpect. Only another attack of fixed pain in the break, in the former place, which this time gave way to the .volatile liniment. The patient is taking a de- coct. lichen, ifland. He is out of bed the whole day for the firfi time. To the 31ft December he dfttinued the ufe of the lichen, ifland. during which he recovered his ftrength, got free of all his complaints, and went out of the hofpital. I fhall fhortly relate another cafe, in which by the too long continuation of purging, the body was weakened, the crifis by the fkin prevented, \ and a terrible nervous Rate of the fyfiem brought on. OB3ERV. LX. The patient H. P. W. was a man in his 27th year, of a healthy and firong eohfiitution. I was called to him on the 12th day of his illnefs. I learned nothing more but that he had had a gafiric fever, that he had been vomitedOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 221 vomited and purged frequently ; and that he {till continued the purging, contrary to the will of the phyfician. I found him quite infenfible, with a' fmall quick and fomewhat contracted pulfe, h s tongue and fkin extremely dry, heat rather * lefs than natural, with the jaws fpafmodically fhut, a trembling and flarting in all his limbs, diflortion of the mufcles of the face, continual fighing and moaning, and a countenance as pale as death. I ordered for him a mixture of valerian, cam- phor and mufk, and alternately chamomile tea, and almond milk with mucilage of gum arabic. On the evening of the fecond day after he had begun to take thefe medicines, a fmall degree of perfpiration appeared for the firlt time, which gradually increaied, and continued for two days and two nights. During this perlpiration the patient became better every hour, and every fymptom vanifhed. He was however long of recovering from the weaknefs which the difeafe left behind. Lentin22 2 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. Lentin (Krankh. Claufthal, p. 24) has alfo well obferved this hate. After all impurities are gone, fays he, much fpafm frequently appears in the difeafe. He recommends particularly warm baths. Fourth principal Cafe. There are cafes in bi- lious difeafes in which the phyfician muff not on- ly attend to the evacuation of bilious fluids, but al- fo watch with c'are the irritation which occafions the overflow pf bile. This is fometimes of a pe- t culiar, and indeed of a fpecific kind, continues conflantly to ad, and requires altogether a pe- culiar treatment. The phyfician who in thefe cafes occupies himfelf folely with the evacuation of bilious fluids, and does not try to flop their fource, a£ts like him who in a falivation only ad- vifes his patient to fpit out heartily. The irri- tation continues to a61, frefh overflows of bile daily fhow themfelves, the patient is weakened by the repeated evacuations, and the difeafe remains elfentially where it was. To illuftrate this I fhall mention two cafes from the journal of the hofpital. OBSERV. LX I.OF BILIOUS FEVERS OBSERV. LXI. Christ. Fr. Gunther a cloth manufacturer of Ronneburg, had a fever of a bilious nature and was admitted into the hofpi- tal. His pulfe was foft and quick, his tongue yellow, with bitter tafte, and fulnefs of the prac- cordia. He got an emetic, and foon after a ca- thartic, by which much bile was evacuated, and the fever with all its fymptoms much mitigated. He was well for two days : the third day the •• fever again became violent, and all the fymptoms of an overflow of bile again appeared. An eme- tic and cathartic again evacuated much bile, and the confequences were ftill more remarkable this time than the firft, for he continued fix days with- \ out any fever. On the feventh day, the fever with all the fymptoms of an overflow of bile again appeared, and in the evening, he got a vomit and a purge. On the morning of the 8th day the itch was ob- ferved upon him, and he now told us that he had beenOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 224 been afie£led with that difeafe about iix weeks before. The eruption incrcafed for fome days, but by the ufe of Jailer’s ointment for the itch, it went a- way by degrees, and the patient went out of the hofpital in the fifth week perfe&ly well. From the moment the itch appeared, the fever with all the fymptoms of bile vanifhed and did not again return. • • OBSERV. LXII. Joh. Peter Berg, a ilioe- maker, aged 32, had had a fever for fourteen days, with headach, oppreflion at the ftomach, laihtude and bad take ; he was admitted into the hofpital on the 25th of June. Sal ammoniac and tartar emetic were preferibed for him. t 26th. As his tongue w'as very foul and rooift, he got an emetic, and threw no much flime and bile. 27 th. HeOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 2 2 5 27th. lie was better, and got fal amoniac, glau- ber falts, and tartar emetic. 29th. Circum(lances again Teemed to require an emetic, which not only evacuated a great quantity of flimy bilious fluff, but alfo removed the fever and all the bilious fvmptoms. July iff. He was quite free from fever, had a clean tongue, but violent pains in the extremities, chiefly in the right arm, which he could not move at all. He got antimonial wine, dulcamara and fpiritus mindereri. On the 7th an itchy eruption appeared, which increafed for feveral days, during which the pains in the limbs vanifhed. By the external ufe of Jaffer’s ointment the itch alfo by degrees difap- peared, and on the 29th of July he left the hofpi- tal m perfeH health. Similar overflowings of bile, or if I dare fo cx- prefs myfelf, hepatic falivations (which are Deca- ff fioned226 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. fioned by irritations conflantly in adlion, or conti- nually renewed, where the radical cure depends foleiy upon finding out and removing the irrita- tion) chiefly occur in chronic difeafes. Every phvfician will have obferved cafes, where during the ufe of repeated vomits and purges, the bitter tafte with all the other fymptoms of an overflow of bile continued ; and who then is not fenfible that the chief thing to be done is to find out and dry up the fopree. This irritation is moil fre- quently found in the abdominal vifeera, where there are fixed ftimuli that a£t on the liver; the quellion therefore frequently is, how to diffolve obfrudVions in the abdominal vifeera. But this is by no means the only kind of caufe. Fifth principal Cafe. Bilious impurities fome- tin es exill accidentally, and as a mere fymptom in difeafes, which have a character and require a method of cure peculiar to themfelves ; and in fuch inftances they never fail to occafion an addi- tional irritation, which mull be removed by eme- tics and purgatives. But when the difeafe is mi- tigatedOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 2 2-J tigated by theft; means, we muft not think of con- tinuing them, nor believe that we can thus totally remove the difeafe. The amendment which fol- lows an emetic or purge, too often leads a phyfi- cian into this miitake, and every body will per- ceive that by thefe emetics or purges, not only the difeafe cannot be removed, but is rendered more dangerous, and even mortal. The livers of mod people are now fo hyfteric that aim off every ftimulus ads upon the liver, and excites an hepatic falivation, and confequently molt difeafes are complicated with bilious impu- rities. Thefe bilious fluids muft be removed, be- caufe they for the moll part ad as an additional ftimulus, ana increafe the difeafe. But when they are once removed, and a certain mitigation of fymptoms has been obferved, we muft not think that we can completely cure the difeafe by evacu- ants, although this is the opinion of many. I may mention the dyfentery, of which I have al- ready treated, as the bell proof of this, for it is di- redly in point.223 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. I have daily opportunities of feeing in the hof- pital, how frequently gaftric impurities occur mere- ly as accidental fymptoms in difeafes. Every perfon who is in the hofpital only for a fortnight becomes affected with bilious impurities. Indeed I would wifh to cure all difeafes by emetics and purgatives, if I thought that every difeafe where bilious impurities make their appearance could be certainly cured by thefe means. And that many phyficians believe this, the attentive reader will certainly have occafion to obferve. That this error leads to a thoufand bad confequences it is unnecelfary to affirm. I refer entirely to what I have faid about the dvfentery. Sixth and lajl principal Cafe. I might well dif- tinguifh thefe with the name of artificial billons difeafes. In my opinion there are three cafes, where a phyfician actually brings on a bilious or gaftric difeafe, which nature did not at all intend. i. When a patient is attacked with a fever or any other difeafe, whofe caufe and nature the phy- ficianOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 229 iician does not immediately difcover, he for the moftpait adminiflers folutive neutral halts and emetics in fmall dofes. After home time, the patient lofes his appetite, his tongue becomes loul, with an oppreifion at the forehead, &c. The phyIician rejoices to find out the enemy in his lurk- ing place, and prefcribes vomits and purges ; the patient evacuates bile, and other apparently noxious matters; and now the phyfician again rejoices that the enemy is actually diflodged. In order to be quite fure, folvents and evacuants are repeated again and again, always with the fame effect, and continued in this manner, as lone as it is thought advifeable, that the patient may be p_r- fe£tly purified. The poor purified patient crawls about exhausted and debilitated, recovers his flefh and firength always flowly, fometimes never, and ftill he con foies himfelf with the idea, that he has for once been completely purified. I by no means deny, that all this is fequen’ly done with propriety, and to the great benefit of the 0-3 patients,OF BILIOUS FEVERS 23O patients, but I am alfo convinced that phyficiatiS too often fufpect obftru£tions of the abdominal vif- cera, holding the abdominal vifcera to be the prime I fources of ail diforders. It is foolifh to believe that whenever a man throws up bile, or evacuates noxious matters by flool after ufing thefe medicines, that this accident of noxious matter, proves fuch folvents and eva- cuants to have been neceffary. Every perfon in health throws up bile, if he vomit three or four fucceffive times. Neutral falts weaken the diges- tion by conducting to the inteftines that matter* which nature would have perhaps evacuated by a different channel ; and after fuch weaknefs is once produced, fordes of the inteftines, and noxious ffools take place, occafioned plainly by the phyfi- cian. /1 here are indeed few healthy men, who can take neutral falts for Several days together without lofs of appetite, and their tongue becoming foul. He who thinks that this foulnefs points out the propriety of folvent and evacuating medicines, appears to me, to judge as ill as one who having eatenCF BILIOUS FEVERS, 531 eaten afpai agus, and his urine having taken a ne- culiarly ftrong fmell, fufpeds morbid matter, which natuie willies to evacuate by the urine, and fo prefcribes diuretics for himfclf. If a phyfician in every diforder, whether feve- rifli or not, immediately gives purgative neutral felts, whithout having firft attentively confidered the caufe, he frequently alfo injures the patient in a different manner. The morbid matter which caufes the difeafe and which nature perhaps would have thrown off by the fkin in a few days, without lofs of ftrength, is as it were forcibly carried to the inteflines, and evacuated with the effedt at lead of weakening the powers of the digeftive organs. Diaphoretics were once alfo much abufed, but now they are almoft totally laid afide in febrile complaints, and all evacuations are made by the inteflines, which, in its turn, is alfo, in my opinion, a great error. It is from fuch imprudent evacua- tions that fo many weak flomachs and delicate fyf- tems of nerves take their origin. 0.4 2. Befides2J2 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. 2. Befides it w s attempted to prevent bilious fevers by emetic and purgative neutral lalts. This chiefly took place in cafes of preparation for ino- culating the fmall pox, before important furgical operations, &c. The patient was bled, confined to his room, only allowed vegetable food, all which with the addition of emetics and purgatives, debi- litated him, increafed his fenfibility and irritabili- ty, kept up a eonflant determination of the fluids to the inteftines, weakened the difpofition to crifis by the fkin, and as my own experience has repeat- edly fhown me, had preciftly an oppofite effect to what was intended ; i. e. the patient, after the operation, was attacked with a gaflric fever, which he would have efcaped, but from thefe prepara- tions ; and how indeed could it otherwife. Sanguis ejl domitor bills, faid the ancients, i. e. debilitated bodies have a difpofition to bilious difeafes. 3. The laft cafe in which phyficians adlually occafion impurities in the inteftines, is towards the end ofgaftric fevers, which during their courfe have required repeated emetics and purgatives.233 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. It will be often obferved in thefe cafes, that in proportion as you dilfolve and evacuate impuri- ties, impurities will again appear, requiring other evacuations, lor as the patient becomes weaker, the impurities, and the falfe indications to evacu- ate increafe. This happens chiefly in bilious fevers of long- continuance, which require repeated evacuations. The afflux of fluids to the inteftines, kept up by thefe very evacuations for a confiderable time, continues, while the evacuations by other outlets ■ ✓ are inconfiderable and imperfect ; which in this cafe are confequences of the difeafe alone. But it is fometimes occafioned by the difeafe being improperly treated. However necelfary it may be to chufe only cooling purgatives, as long as the fever is violent, it is equally necelfary, e- fpecially with weakly patients, at the end of the difeafe, after the fever has been much abated, or is completely gone, to make choice chiefly of rhu- barb, when indications to evacuate ftill continue. Ths234 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. This is not only much more powerful in evacu- ating the remaining impurities, but at the fame time alfo ftrengthens the debilitated inteftines, checks the conftant afflux of new impurities, and prevents that condition of the bowels, which I now fpeak of, and which is always particularly the confequence of debilitating neutral falts being given to the very end of the difeafe. Sometimes alfo the miilake of the phyfician lay* the foundation for this condition ol the inteftinal canal, lor he fufpedts impurities, and thinks eva- cuations necelfary, fo long as the tongue is foul, and the appetite low and languid. But thefe figns of impurity are not true ligns, but are natural in bilious fevers, eipecially towards the end of fuch fevers, and they are oi ten merely the confequences of weakened digellion, and they not only do not require evacuants, but they rather point to medi- cines fit for ftrengthening the flomach. Nothing indeed cleans the tongue more quickly, flrength- <?ns the llomach more, produces more compofed fleep,OF BILIOUS FEVERS, 235 fleep, than rhubarb, particularly if given in fmall dofes. I HAVE now in general mentioned feveral cafes, where, in my opinion, evacuants are improperly given in gallric fevers. I could have fupported each cafe with examples, but I am convinced that eve- ry unprejudiced phyfician will remember fufficient proofs of the truth of what I have faid and feen. I beg leave however to relate the hiflory of one cafe of bilious fever, where evacuants were not given in fufficient quantity. It appears to me particularly inftrudtive, becaufe we from thence fee how various is the form of difeafes, arifing from obftrutted and retained bilious irritation, and how readily this very obfcure caufe of difeafes is mif- taken and overlooked by phyficians. OBSERV. LXIII. C. Momeyerin between ?o and 40 years ol age, was admitted into the hofpital236 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. I hofpital on the 2 ill of March. From the account file gave of herfelf, it appeared that file had had a peripneumonia biliofa four weeks before, for which flie had been purged and bled. The pain and fe- ver had in confequence of this left her, but fhe had never recovered her former health. She now complained of extreme difficulty of breathing, had a fevere cough with a greenifh yel- low expectoration, and a circumfcribed rednefs of the cheek. She could not lie on the left fide, felt a weight in the bread, had a very frequent quick pulfe, night fweats, complete lofs of appe- tite, and by the fnalleil quantity of food, flufliing of the face, and burning heat of the hands was occa honed. Though all thefe fymptoms gave caufe to fuf- peel a vomica iu the lungs, and though the pa- tient’s tongue was clean, 1 thought it advifeable in the firfl place to attend chiefly to the praecor- dia, partly becaufe all thefe complaints were in confequence of a bilious dileafe, which probably hadOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 237 had been very irregularly treated ; partly alfo be- caufe the patient now complained of bitter tafte of a dull pain in her head, and very difturbed fleep. I therefore ordered for her tamarind whey and creme of tartar, by means of which fhe had feveral fetid ftools. Since however thefymptoms of bilious irritation, did not difappear by the ufe of thefe medicines, and the other fymptoms were not in the leaft mi- tigated. 1 determined on the 27th of march to give her an emetic, and laid my account with the vomica perhaps burfting during its operation. But this by no means happened ; the patient threw up a great quantity of tough bilious ftime, and with fuch an unexpected effedt, that the next day, every uneafmefs and every fymptom ol me fuppofed vomica was entirely gone. She now continued to take for fometime fo- luble tartar, and twice in the intervals a purge, which {till produced leveral fetid ftools. At^3$ OF BILIOUS FEVERS. At laft, as file only complained of lalfitude, fhe took for a while lichen, ifland. and afterwards cinchona. She went out of the hofpital on the 8th of June in perfect health. ( By way of conclufion, I {hall fay a few words on biliary nervous fevers ; only a few words ; for it is not my intention here to give treatifes, but only the refult of my reflexions on the cafes which I have feen, fpeaking chiefly of emetics and purgatives. If a bilious fever be connected with unufual nervous fymptoms, it is generally called a biliary nervous fever. Attention is here only paid to the ■unufual fymptoms, for every fever has nervous fymptoms, and what is uncommon, is frequently only in the idea of the phyfician, according as he has had much or little experience, has feen few or many unufual appearances. In this manner the termOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 239 term nervous fever may be very often improper Iy ufecl. Conf,tiering the vveaknefs and irritability of the bodies of molt men of this age, it is not to be wondered at, that very many nervous fymptoms accompany fevers, the matter of which is chiefly feated in the moll fenfible parts of the body, in the abdomen ; and hence in common bilious fe- vers, their being more or lefs nervous, depends on the greater or lefs degree of llrength and irri- lability of the patient. Notwithstanding of this, it cannot be at all de- nied, that there is frequently fuch a hate in bi- lious fevers, as may juftly be called nervous ; on- ly I think that it is not Ample fo as to require a peculiar method of cure, always the fame. I ra- ther think that it is very various, that it proceeds irom different caufes, and that according to the variety of the cafe, it requires very different treat- ment.240 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. I for my part know particularly of three kinds of nervous Hates in bilious fevers, which I fhall now defcribe to my readers as I have obferved them. * The firft is obferved immediately at the begin- ning of thofe bilious fevers, where the morbific matter is not yet in the primae vice. No evacu- ations have yet taken place, and the body is not weakened. The fymptoms here are various. Some have fpontaneous vomiting, without throw- ing any thing up. The vomiting is purely a vio- lent fpafmodic, effort. Others find it impoflible to throw up. No emetic however firong can pro. duce vomiting. After it has naufeated the pa- tient for fometime it goes downwards. In others on the contrary emetics in fmall dofes, caufe vio- lent immoderate vomiting. Mofl of them feel a fpafmodic contraction in all their limbs, and anxi- ety in the praecordia, they figh deeply, have a quick tenfe pulfe, tremor over the whole body, cannot put the tongue out of their mouths without an exertion, are exceedingly refllefs, delirious, &c. Who241 OF BILIOUS FEVERS. Who does not fee in this picture a fpafmodic ilate ? 1 lie channels through which the matter of gaftric fevers flows into the primae viae, appear to be in the fame hate, as the veffels of the Ikin in a fpafm. of the fkin, which is excited by a mor- bific matter that nature throws on the Ikin, wifh- ing to evacuate it, while the evacuation is pre- vented by a fpafm of the fkin. It would appear that the gafiric matter by its own irritation, fhuts up the way by which it fhould reach the inteftines. I am in the cufiom therefore of calling them in this cafe Cordes incarceratas. Every thing here depends upon thefe channels being opened, upon the fpafm which clofes them t being removed. As foon as this takes place, all fymptoms abate, the morbific matter flows into the intellines, and the indications to evacuate ap- pear. But before this happens care mult be tak- en not to give evacuants. 1 hey abfolutely eva- cuate nothing hurtful. Emetics only caufe nau-> fea and a fpafmodic effect, or a violent retching by which nothing is brought up, or they have no ef R fe&OF BILIOUS FEVERS. 242 fe£l at all. Cathartics are apt to occafion a violent diarrhoea, which continues long, difturbs every concoction and crifis, deranges the difeafe, and makes it fatal. This fpafmodic ftate does not always depend up- on the weaknefs and fenfibility of the body. I have obferved it in ftrong conftitutions. Some- times the character of the prevailing epidemic ap- pears to have fome lhare in this. I recolledt an autumnal epidemic, where it was very difficult to make the patients vomit; where it was almolt univerfally neceffary to lay a bliher on the region of the ftomach, before giving an emetic, if it was wifhed that this fbould caufe vomiting. In gene- ral the acrimony of the febrile matter, which na- ture endeavours to pour into the intehines, is the caufe of this mifchief. With regard to the treatment of patients in this Hate, it is of two kinds. Sometimes the pulfe is full and tenfe, the degree of heat confiderable, and theOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 243 the Patient ftrong and pretty plethoric. In this cafe a bleeding is neceffary. It is indeed laid (See Grant on fevers, p. 202.) that bleeding in bilious fevers draws the impuri- ties into the blood, and is peculiarly hurtful. But there are cafes where precifely on the contrary it promotes the evacuation of impurities into the in- teffines. As when heat is moderate, a critical fweat eafily takes place, and when the heat is violent, the fkin remains dry ; fo in a violent fever, the intef- tinal pei Ipiration is obflrufted, and is promoted by whatever dimimfhes the heat and fever. An 1 emetic which before the bleeding operated violent- ly, but produced no evacuation, will immediately after the bleeding not only operate gently, but V alfo bring up very noxious Huff. In all violent' fevers there is fpafm ; a blood-letting at the pro- per time removes the fpafm, opens the veffels and promotes the evacuation of noxious fluids. If the flrength of the patient, the pidfe and heat do not admit of bleeding, the fpafmodic hate of the R 2 abdominal244 OF BIT IOUS FEVERS. abdominal vifcera muft be removed by warm, fe- dative, diluent and gently antifpafmodic medicines, and by thefe means the flow of noxious matters into the inteflinal canal encouraged, that we may be able to evacuate the more eafily and certainly by emetics and purgatives. The tnofl: efficacious medicines of this kind are the potio Riverii given during the effervefcence, ipecacuanha in fmall dofes, emollient injections, warm oily fomentations and poultices to the ab» domen, warm baths, a decoCtion of mallows, wild poppies and liquorice for common drink ; and if all thefe are ineffectual, a blifiering plafler of can- tharides muft be laid on the region of the ftomach. The fecond nervous flate in gaftric fevers ge- nerally appears fooner or later during the courfe of the difeafe, and after previous evacuations of the inteftmes. The patient is here more or lefs debili- tated, the pulfe is more or lefs funk, the heat incon- ftderable. Evacuations by emetics and purgatives increafe the weaknefs much and are of little benefit* ThisOF BILIOUS FEVERS. 245 i his hate is the confequence either of prema- ture evacuations, and difturbed criiis by the fkin, of which I have already fpoken, or it happens from no fault of the phyfician, and is to be afcribed to the feeble and irritable conftitution of the patient, or to the peculiar nature of the gaftric fever. The miliary and petechial fevers are frequently of this kind. Every thing here depends upon being cautious; and no evacuation, particularly by purging, fhould be made, till there is a full and certain indication for it, and even then with much dilcretion; in the mean while perfpiration Ihould be gently promot- ed, and the ftrength fupported. The moll effec- tual means for this are plafters with cantharides, and anthnonials with valerian and fpiritus minde reri. The third nervous flate is of a perfectly oppo- fite nature. Here the nervous fyflem is unufual- ly inactive andinfenfible. The patient is quiet, con- tented, complaining of nothing, except of laffitude, Tt 3 and246 OF B’LJOUS FEVERS. and fome degree of headach, is not very warm, and the heat is often natural, or even lefs than na- * tural. The pulfe is irritated, and rather quick, the urine is nearly natural, the tongue almoft clean, &c. The fevers which are called gaftric flimy are for the moll part of this kind. We mufl here take care not to purge too foon. Emetics on the contrary are of the great- eft life. But enough of this. c II A p.OF AMPUTATION OF THE THIOH. 2 4!* C H A P. XVIII. OF AMPUTA TION OF THE THIGH. Various means have been contrived for pre- venting the projection of the bone after the ampu- tation of the thigh ; all of thefe however have been^employed without luccefs. The two princi- pal means from which we reafonably expeCt molt, are the forcible retra&ion of the mufcles during the operation, in order to faw the bone oil as high as poilible, and the quick healing and uniting of the wound without fuppuration. I fhall 1 elate a cafe in which I fawed off the bone as high up as it can well be done, and where the wound R a united248 OF AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. united as early as poffible, and yet a monftrous projetlion took place loon after. The pofterior mufcles of the thigh generally retract themfelves much more flrongly than the anterior after this operation. They begin to do this even during the cure, and the confequence is, that after the cure is completed, even though it goes on quickly and without fuppuration, the flump is for the moll part oblique, and not very convenient for the application of an artificial leg. This might perhaps be prevented, if in the opera- tion the mufcles were cut obliquely, that is, in fuch a manner, that the anterior mufcles be cut higher, and the pollerior mufcles lower down. This practice appears to me to be attended with no kind of difficulty ; I would therefore generally recommend it to furgeons. In the cafe which I am going to relate, my readers will fee an Allanfonian amputation, but performed in a manner peculiar to myfelf. And I believe I may venture to recommend it, for an Allan-OF AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 2 49 Ailanfonian amputation can hardly fucceed better than this one did : and I am hill of opinion, that the practice recommended by Allanfon, of endea- vouring to make the hump concave, is very diffi- cult, even impoffible. OBSERV. LXIV. A boy about 14 years of 1 age, othervvife healthy, had for a long time had a caries in the right tibia, which had come on fpon- taneoufly, but had probably been occafioned by a' metafiafis. The difeafe was of pretty long Handing, when he at laft applied to me for advice. As upon laying open the fore, I found that the ti- bia was carious nearly through and through, that the head of it was enlarged and the knee joint was alfo fomewhat painful, I determined upon ampu- tation. The bov had indeed a hedlic fever, but this was probably the effedt of the local complaint. 4 The incifion was made three finger breadths a- bove the knee. An affiftant grafped the limb with both his hands above the place of the incifion and kept the fkin firm. With the firft circular cutOF AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 25O the cut, I not only divided the fkin, but alfo the cel- lular membrane to the external furface of the mufcles; this is neceflary to admit of the fkin being pulled ftrongly back. If the cellular mem- brane be not entirely divided, it will generally be found that it contracts, when the fkin is pulled upwards, and by that means prevents the fkiq from being drawn up very far. Whilft the afiiftant now drew back the fkin as far as poflible, I once more with a fecond circular incifion, cut through the cellular membrane as far as the mufcles, juft below the edge of the retrac- ted fkin, by which means the afiiftant was enabled to draw the fkin confiderably higher than before ; fo that the upper edge of the fkin, was at leaft three large finger breadths diflant from the under. It is therefore not at all neceflary to follow Allan- fon’s advice of difie&ing and turning back the fkin all round from the fubjacent mufcles. A practice which is both tedious and troublefome. / With the third circular incifion I cut throughGF AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 251 the mufcular flefli by the edge of the retraded fkin, not fo far as the bone, but only to about the middle of its thicknefs. Then with the cru- cial compreis, I made this external part of the flefli be pulled up as high as poflible, and I now with a fourth cut, divided the remaining mufcular flefli down to the bone, at the edge of that which had been drawn up. The whole flefh was now drawn back fo flrongly with the crucial comprefs, that the bone was denuded two fingers breadth at leaf!, and there fawed through. After the fkin and mufcles were drawn down, the flump had the appearance of a deep concave furface, in the upper part of which the bone lay fo deep that it could not be feen. * After the veffels were tied, the flump was prefl- ed together on both fides, fo that the wound had the appearance of a fiflure, which run from before direflly backwards. The edges of tne fkin were fo clofe together that the wound refembled a veiy fine flit. The fkin was fattened by means of adhefive2 52 OF AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. The adhefive plafier ; the flefh of the flump was prefl- ecl together by means of a bandage, and of bol- flers of charpee placed on both fides of the flump. The ends of the ligatures hung out of the under I and back corner of the wound. So little fever followed that the patient got no medicine whatever during the whole time of the cure. Even the hedlic fever foon dil'appeared, fo that the patient was entirely free from fever on the ninth day. On the fifth day, when the bandages were taken off, three quarters of the upper part of the wound were united and quite dry, the under part, out of which the ligatures hung, was rnoifl, but dis- charged only a few drops of purulent matter during the whole cure. On the eighth day, the open part which was in the moll depending corner of the wound, was fcarcely a finger’s breadth. On the eleventh day, the threads of the ligature dropt off, and the remaining fmall opening clofed in a few days.OF AMPUTATION OF THE THIGH. 253 The patient went out of the hofpital with a more lively appearance, and with more flrength than when admitted. The Hump however was oblique notwithflanding it had healed fo quickly, becaufe the polterior mufcles had already con- traded. I faw the patient eighteen months after, and to my great aftonifhment found that all the mufcles round the bone had retraded in fuch a manner, that the bone projeded a whole hand breadth co- vered only with the fkin. CHAP.OF THE GUTTA SERENA. 254 I e H A P. XIX. OF THE GUTTA SERENA, I have latelyreRored the fight to feveral patients who laboured under a g;utta ferena. In all thefe cafes the caufe of the gutta ferena feeraed to be feated in the abdominal vifcera, for I cured them all by means of medicines which diflblve obRruc- tions in the vifcera, and evacuate. Two patients were even cured by thefe fame medicines where there was much reafon to fufpe£t another caufe, and to chufe other medicines. Experience therefore confirms me more and i more2 55 OF THE GUTTA SERENA. The iiiore in the opinion, that the caufe of gutta fere- na is moil frequently to be found in the abdomi- nal vifceraj and daily juftifi.es me more in recom- mending the ufe of deobllruent vilceral medicines, even in cafes where they are not evidently indi- cated, 01 where there is no determined indication to any medicine whatever. I can affirm that I have not unfrequently performed a complete cure, in cafes where I hardly expe&ed it, and in fome where the difeafs had adually contined for fever- al years. OBSERV. LXV. Joh. Heinr. Lacs, aged 19 years, was admitted on the 16th of Auguft. This otherwife healthy man had frequently had epiftax- is, which having ceafed to return about two years ago, he foon after remarked black fpots before the right eye. The fight of this eye became gradually weak- er and weaker, and in fix months it was entirely loft.OF THE GUTTA SERENA. 256 The year after about Michaelmas, he alfo ob- ferved like a circle of fmoke before the left eye ; and this eye likewife became weaker and weaker. This eye however was alternately better and worfe. At certain times he could fee pretty well with it, but at other times fcarce any at all. Before both eyes, he frequently faw fiery fparks. The pupils had their natural blacknefs and mobility, but the right was a little dilated. With the left eye he could now difiinguilh large objects indiftinftly, with the right eye, he did not fee at all. & Tart. emet. gr. iij. lblv. in aq. font. % vi, fum. om. bihor. cochi. j. mag. 20th. The medicine occafioned fome naufea. 23d. He could this day with the left eye read a little of large writing, which he could not do a few days before. 30th.OF THE GUTTA SERENA. 257 30th. He got an emetic, which made him vo- mit twice, and occafioned two {tools. Next day he again made ufe of the former medicine. Sept. 5th. He thought he perceived fome de- gree of light before the right eye. He now got the following pills. R. gum. ammon. aff. foetid, fapon. venet. rad. valerian, fummitat. arnic. a. 3ij. tart. emet. gr. xviij. ft. pil. pond. gran. ij. quar. fumt. ter quotid. No. XV. 1 • 13th. He faw tolerably well with his left eye, and did not obferve fo many black fpots before it. 17th. The black fpots before the left eye had altogether difappeared. The right eye was not ¥ much better. 4 2 2d. Ten grains of tartar emetic made him vo- mit four times. 30th. He now took 24 pills three times a-day. S Oct. 6 th.OF THE GUTTA SERENA. 253 061. 6th. Little change in the right eye ; the left becoming daily better; he can now read fmall writing with it. 10th. He complained of naufea, bitter tafte, fome headach and want of appetite. Eight grains of tartar emetic occafioned bilious vomiting three » • times and four llools. 20th. He thought he faw fomewhat better with the right eye. t 30th. The right eye grows better. The pupil moves, though fluggifhly. He now took 32 pills thrice a day without feeling any naufea. Nov. 10th. The fight of the right eye improves daily ; the pupil moves brifkly. 3 7th. He faw petfe6lly well with his left eye, with the right not fo well, but it was fo far better, that he could eafily read middle fized print with it. As he wifhed to return home he was allowed toof The gutta sf.rena. 259 to go out of the hofpital, with the advice to con- tin tie the ule oi the pills lor fbme weeks. I have particularly made choice of this cafe, be- fcaufe it (hows how necelTary it is to perfevere in the ufe of thefe medicines. With thefe pills 1 have reftored the fight to patients, in whom the fir It beginning of amendment did not appear, till after ufmg them for fix weeks, and the complete reftoration of fight was only accomplifhed by the continued ufe of thefe pills for four months. OBSERV. LXVI. A patient took thefe pills for fe'ven weeks without any fenfible efleet. In the eight week llools which had the appearance of pitch were produced, which continued for three weeks, and during that time, the weaknefs of the eyes, which nearly amounted to blindnefs, went totally away. In feme people thefe pills oscafion an evident e- vacuation of noxious matter, and at times give clear indications for emetics and purges. Infome S 2 peopleOF THE GUTTA SERENA. i6o people they remove the difeafe without any appa- rent morbid evacuation. OBSERV. LXVII. A young lad of 13 years of age, by their ufe for five weeks, recovered his fight, which he had been deprived of for nine months, though during the whole time, there was no evacuation whatever, nor did any indication for vomiting or purging appear. The long continuance of this medicine, is not more necelfary than the gradual increafe of its dofe. Patients become fo accuftomed to it, that they can take it in very large dofes, without feel- ing any inconvenience whatever. / The complaints which it occafions are an inclb nation to vomit, or a diarrhoea. As loon as I per- ceive thefe effects, I increafe the dofe no further, and when thefe effects do not go off, I diminilh it. So long however as thefe complaints do not appear I continue gradually to increafe the dofe. PatientsOF THE GUTTA SERENA. z6l Patients are fometimes much incommoded by the ufe of thefe pills lrom the very firlt; they are heated by them, and rendered uneafy, their head becomes afledted, their fleep ddlurbed, and the fenfations in the eyes are increafed, &c. In fuch cafes I order foluble tartar with the extraft. gra- min. or taraxac. and an emetic and purgative, as oiten as they are indicated ; and after fome time I make trial of the pills again, the ufe of which I continue, if they agree with the patient, or a- gain omit them if they do not agree. But gene- rally the patient bears them tolerably well, after having taken the foluble tartar for two weeks. Sometimes I know beforehand, that this will happen. If the patient has very much fenfation of tenfion in the eyes, often the appearance of lire before his eyes, frequent headachs, or vertigo, bad take, an irritated pulfe, the urine of a deep colour, reftlelfnefs, frequent heats, 8ec. I immediately give him the fo uble tartar, and make him continue its. ufe till thefe “ymptoms difappear. s 3 Ths262 OF THE GUTTA SERENA. The firft fymptoms of amendment, which give reafon to hope for fuccefs in the cure of the gutta ferena, are the difappearance of the fiery fparks from before the eyes, and of the fenfations of ten- fion in the ball of the eye. OBSERV. LXVIII. A woman who on ac- count of a gutta 1'ercna, which deprived her to- tally of fight, had been a confiderable time in the hofpital, and for which a variety of medicines had been tried in vain, was infedted by another patient with the petechial fever, of which Hie was cured by frequent evacuations principally, and du- ring this time fhe recovered her fight. There are few' fevers which fet in motion, or render moveable old obftrudtions in the abdomen more than the pe- techial. Boerhaave wifhed he could produce a- gues. In obftinate amaurofis, we fhould perhaps wifli to be able to produce petechial fevers. CHA V. iOF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. 363 CHAP. XX, OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. OBSERV. LXIX. Mary Sciiwiegers-t hausen, aged 36 years, had had an ague, which, apparently owing to improper treatment and bad diet, had degenerated into hectic, and in this ft ate the was admitted into the hofpit&l on the 20th of May. She coughed up much feemingly purulent, fometimes greenifh mucus, had very led cheeks, fweated in the mornings and was much emaciated. S 4 A mix-264 OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. A mixture of fal ammoniac, tartar emetic and chamomile flowers in powder was prefcribed. On the 2ill in the afternoon, fhe had a marked fever, with fpafmodic complaints in the throat, fo that flie could not fpeak for three hours. The abdomen was much fwelled. Two inje£tions o- pened the belly with much relief. On the 22d fhe got the potio Riverii. Two flools followed, which procured her great relief. The fever appeared again in the afternoon, with the fpafmodic affe&ion of the throat, which refem- bled a globus hyftericus. Frequent purulent like expe&oration the whole day. 23d. She took a gentle purge in the morning, after the operation of which, file felt herfelf very well. The feverifh fit was milder this afternoon. 24th. She again got tartar emetic and potio Ri- verii. The cough was this day a little more mo- derate, and the fever ftill weaker than yeflerday. The265 OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION, .1 he expectoration lefs purulent and more mu- cous. 25th. In the forenoon her pulfe was perfectly free of fever for the firft time; in the afternoon a very confiderable paroxyfm took place. The bread was more free; the cough more gentle; the ex- pectoration more mucous. 26th. She got a vomit which evacuated a great deal of flimy bile, and produced feveral ftools. In the afternoon no fever for the firll time. She continued to take tartar emetic in fmall dofes till the 2d of April, during which hie had now and then fome liquid floo's, and the lever with the cough and expectoration totally difap- ueared. She now got elix. vitriol. Mynf. and as fhe felt herfelf quite well, hie went out of the hof- pital on the 6th of April. OBSERV. LXX. Henry Fassel, a weaver, aged 22 years, was admitted into the holpital on theOF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. 2 66 the 19th May 1791. This weakly man firft felt two years ago flying pains in his breaft. In Sep- tember 1790 he became affected with a dry cough, and began to be troubled with bad digeilion. In December, after violent motion, he was attacked with haemoptyfis, and ever fince he has had conltant cough with a greemfh mucous expectoration. He nowalfo felt flying pains in the breafl. He had an evident feverifh lit in the evening. The potio Ri- verii was prefcribed for him. On the 22d in the afternoon the fever was ftrong. Pie had fweated profufely during the night, and particularly towards morning. The expectora- tion was to-day very copious, and perfectly puru- lent. 26th. Pulfe hard, fmail and quick. Copious expectoration, which had a peculiar tafle and a yellowifh appearance. Still co.nftant pains in the breaft. 29th. He.OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. 267 29th. He got an emetic which evacuated a great quantity of bilious flime. 30th. He coughed little. The pains in the bread, of w hich he had always hitherto complain- ed, were gone. He got ferum ladis tamarind*, turn. June 2d. No more fever was to be obferved, the pulfe was perfectly calm, the tongue clean and no bad tuhe. He complained oi violent pain in the fhoulder. 3d. Pains in the fhoulder gone, but he had vio- lent pains in the leit loot. Lichen illandicus with dulcamara was prefcribed. 9th. The expectoration is now no more puru- lent but mucous. Pains of the foot diminilh. 19th. Cough and expectoration quite gone, as alfo the pain of the foot, pulfe calm and foft, the patient has no complaint. 23d. He268 OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION, 23d. He went out of the hofpital. OBSERV. LXXI. A shepherd of Eichsfelde aet. 25, was during the night thoroughly drenched with rain and was obliged to remain in his wet clothes till morning. From this time he found him- felf unwell. Six weeks after he came into the hof- pital. He had a violent cough, and fpit up a green- ifli purulent like matter, his breathing was (liort, he had pains in the break, and fometimes in all his limbs, a pale countenance with red cheeks, and was much emaciated. As he complained of violent flying pains in his break, had a red tongue, the pulfe indeed not full but tenfe, hard and quick, and the fldn difagreea- bly warm and dry, I ordered him to lofe fix oun- ces of blood, and gave him tamarind whey for common drink. After this he felt himfelf much relieved, had lefs pain in his break, did not cough fo violently, and expectorated more eafily. The expeftoration alfoOF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. 269 9 aho, had not now fo much the appearance of pu- rulency, but was more mucous and colourlefs. Three days after, the pain of the breaft again be- came violent, the pulfe tenfe and quicker, the cough more frequent and the expectoration of a greenifh yellow colour and purulent. A bleeding to the quantity of five ounces, and an emulfion with fait petre procured again a diminution of all fymptoms, particularly of the pain in the breaft. The expectoration again underwent a change, it loft its yellow colour and part of it became plainly mucous. In eight days the fymptoms again grew worfe ; the pain which always fpread through the whole breaft and had no fixed place, became again more acute, the pulfe quick and tenfe, and the expecto- ration yellow and purulent. After a blood let- ting of five ounces, this exacerbation alfo foon fub- fided. The patient now drank tamarind whey, which generally27° OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. generally occafioned two ftools daily. During' this his pulfe became by degrees quite natural, foft and flow. The pain of the breall remained, but was not fevere, and the expectoration con- tinued purulent, but came up eafily and was co- lourlefs. The 9th day after the lafl bleeding, the patient began to take lichen iflandicus with dulcamara; by the continued ufe of which for fourteen days, % the cough and expectoration went quite away, fo that at the end of the fixth week after his admif- fion into the hofpital, he went out of it perfectly recovered. Weaknefs of the lungs alone is very feldom the / caufe of mucous confumption. The difeafe can feldom be cured folely by tonics. In molt cafes it proceeds from an irritation, which aCts upon the lungs, and increafes the feeretion of mucus in them, or fo deranges that function, that what is feparated, is not a healthy, but a difcoloured pu- rulent like mucus. In molt cafes therefore the cureOF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. 27 I cuie chiefly depends 011 finding out the irritation, which caufes the difeafe, and on removing it. In a word the phthijis pituitofa appears to be the fame in the lungs, as the fluor albus in the uterus, and the gonorrhoea in the urethra. This is proved by the foregoing cafes, in which the difeafe was evi- dently occafioned by gaflric and rheumatic irri- tations. If weaknefs and languor were folely the caufe of this difeafe, an increafed afflux of fluids, and a more copious fecretion of mucus might at any rate be fufpe£ted. But there is here a fccreiiopcr- verfa, the mucus is yellow, green, thick and re- fembles pus. It would probably be thin, copious and watery, if atoniapulmonum was alone the caufe of the difeafe. The difeafe frequently comes on fuddenly in people who previoufly had no lymptoms of weak- nefs of the lungs, and it plainly arifes from caufes 1 which could not occafion weaknefs ol the lungs.272 OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. The fymptoms of the difeafe fometimes incon- teftably point out a ftimulus which aCts upon the lungs. The violent cough, the painful fenfations which many patients have in their breaft, and the irritated pulfe from the begining of the difeafe, are particulary of this kind. Alfo the termination of this difeafe in purulent phthifis is much more probably the effect of irrita- tion than of atony of the lungs. Laftly the frequent changes in the fymptoms of the difeafe, the cough being fometimes more vio- lent, fometimes flight, the pulfe being more or lefs irritated at different times, the expectoration being at one time more of a mucous nature, and at another time more like pus, fometimes colourlefs, fometimes yellow and green, give reafon to fufpeCt fometimes the more gentle fometimes the ftrong- er adfion of a ftimulus: thefe circumftances at leait cannot be accounted for by atonia pulmonum alone. FromOF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. 273 From all this then I think we may with great probability conclude, that the molt common caufe ol phthilis pituitofa is an irritation, which direct- ly or by lympathy a£ts on the mucous glands of the lungs, and prevents them from properly pre- paring and fecreting the mucus. x\nd from the opportunities I have had of feeing this difeafe, I believe that in the molt cafes this irritation is rheumatic or gaftric. Plurimi pbthifici ex abdo- mine laborant, fays a great phyfician. But I do not in the lealt doubt that ftimuli of other kinds may frequently have a fhare in this difeafe : and I always think that venereal confumptions, which are fo eafily cured by mercury, are merely mu- cous confumptions. / 1 ubercles and indurations in the lungs are fre- quent, always dangerous concomitants of phthifis pituitola : they are perhaps not unfrequently the caufe, and may be the very irritation, or may con- tain that which excites the difeafe; they may fometimes alfo be the confequences of it. Thej- generally render the difeaie incurable. T It274 OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. It is often very difficult to diftinguifh the mu-< cous from the purulent confumption. 1 confefs that l have often found myfelf unable to decide; and I am perte&ly convinced that this pituitary or mucous phthifis is often taken for the ulcerated, and that frequently when a purulent phthifis is faid to have been cured, it has been merely a mucous one. From the modus operands of fome very famous medicines againft phthifis, we may with probability conclude, that an error of this fort is not fo very unfrequent. I always think that thofe confumptions which have been cured by blues, myrrh fugar, oleum afphalti, dulcamara, &x, have been moflly of the mucous kind. I know of only one mark on which we can in fome meafure depend, and this is the various and often fudden change in the ftate and properties of the expe&oration. In every cafe at fome period of the difeafe, it lofes for a fhort time the puru- lent appearance and becomes plainly mucous ; and this is the time to difeover the nature of the dif- eafe. Every thing depends on not allowing this opportunityOF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. 275 opportunity to efcape ; I therefore advife, in doubt, ful cafes, to examine the expe&oration daily. It generally refenflfles pus fo much, that it is difficult to diflinguiffi it from true purulent matter. The other fymptoms of phthifis pituitofa are the fame as thofe of the purulent phthilis. 'hough I thinkit probable that thecommon caufe of phthifis pituitofa is an irritation, I by no means deny but that weakneis of the lungs may have a ffiare in the difeafe, either as a predifpoling caufe or as a confequence of it, and that it merits at- tention in the cure : I therefore advife the ufe of corroborants, towards the end of the cure, after the irritation has been almoft or altogether removed, and among thefe particularly the lichen iflandicus, the efficacy of which is confirmed by a great deal of experience. With this alone I have radically cured feveral cafes of mucous phthifis, which had followed bi- lious fevers. If the lichen iflandicus a£ts merely T z as276 OF MUCOUS CONSUMPTION. as a ftrengthener of the lungs, I fhould then indeed be ob iged to conclude, that in fuch cales the dif- eale arifes l'olely from atonia pulmonurm CHAPo IA CASE OF &c. 277 CHAP. XXI. A CASE OF IMPERFORATED VAGINA. OBSERV. LXXI. A young woman of 21 years of age, who had never menftruated, had been affli&ed with a variety of complaints for four years. During that time, fhe had taken the ad- vice of many phyficians, who had all of them or- dered for her various emmenagogue medicines, which not only had not removed, but had radier aggravated her complaints. As flie now complained of uneafinefs, pam, and tenficn in the region of the pelvis, as her abdo- T 3 men2^8 A CASE OF men was diftended, as fhe had a frequent defire t© make water, and voided the faeces with difficulty, and as fhe told me that though all thefe com- plaints continued uninterruptedly, yet that they be- cameworfe for fomedays every four weeks,I began to fufpeft that there might be fome mechanical obftrudtion, which prevented the efflux of menftru- al blood. 1 therefore examined her by the touch. I accordingly found the vagina fhut up, neither however in the ufual place, nor manner, but by an adtual cicatrization of the fides of the vagina to each other, which in that place was quite contrac- ted, and united. This place was nearly about the middle of the vagina, between the os exter- num and os tincae. Every thing there felt quite hard, and no flu&uation was any where to be perceived, fo as to fatisfy me of the accumulation of menflrual blood above the difeafed part. I introduced a finger into the return, to endea- vour, if pofflble, to afcertain what T fufpe&ed. I now quite plainly felt the vagina at the imperfo- ratedIMPERFORATED VAGINA. 279 forated place, as if drawn together, and further up great diflenfion and fluctuation. On enquiring into the caufe of this cicatri- zation, her mother told me, that when her daugh- ter had had the fmall pox, then eight years old, flie had complained of pains in the vagina, and that pus had ifiued from it for fome time. There was a necefiity for making an opening through the imperforated place, but it was difficult to do it without wounding the bladder or the rec- tum, and to point the inftrument with which it was to be made in fuch a manner as to introduce it diredtly into the upper part of the vagina. I however with the linger in the redtuni quite plainly felt, that the imperforated part was very fliort, and therefore hoped to find the right way. For this operation 1 did not make choice of the trocar, which in this hard, inelallic, cicatiized place, would have made too fmall an opening; but of the ufual phanngotom, whofe blade was a T 4 finger’sA CASE OF 200 fingcr’s breadth. I applied it to the imperforated place, in fiich a manner, that the two edges of the blade were directed to each fide of the vagina, and fo as to avoid the urinary paflages above, and the redfum below. After having introduced the inftrument in this manner, I felt with my finger in the redlum, that I might be perfectly certain of its direction and fituation. I now forced the blade out of the fheath, and it pierced the imperforated part with feme difficulty. There immediately iffued out fome thick, tough, black, pitchy like, but quite inodorous blood, the flow of which however very foon ceafed. Upon introducing my finger into the opening in order to dilate it, a very confiderable quantity more flow- ed out, and as the difeharge again foon ceafed, the patient got upon her feet, and by coughing, prefi fure and agitation brought a good deal more a- way. I plainlyIMPERFORATED VAGINA. 28 I I plainly perceived that the Quantity accumulat- ed was not nearly evacuated; to promote how- ever its difcharge, I twice threw up an injedion. But as the patient at lad became fatigued, I intro- duced a tent into the opening by means of a found, in order to prevent its clofing anew, and put off the evacuation of the reft of the blood till the fucceeding day. The patient found herfelf quite well during that time, and continued to lie on her back that the tent might not any how fall out. Next day when the tent was removed, black vifcid blood immediately again iffued out, but a- long with it an intolerable cadaverous flench, which in a few moments filled the whole room. Such was the high degree of putrefadion, which the blood had run into upon admitting the air, in the fpace of twenty Tour hours, though the fame blood, which had been fhut up for years, was the day before quite inodorous. T. therefore282 A CASE OF I therefore looked upon it as indifpenfably He* ceffary, in order to obviate the effect of putrefac- tion on the whole body, completely to evacuate the whole remaining blood immediately. I cauf- ed her to get upon her feet and by means of coughing aud prefiure promote the difcharge. I made the lower part of her belly be rubbed. I introduced my finger feveral times in order to dilate the opening, and continued to inject warm water and honey, till it came out colourlefs. In fimilar cafes I look upon it as an important rule, to evacuate all the accumulated blood, im* mediately after the operation, or at leaf! as foon / as poffible, and 1 believe that we have actually reafon to fear bad effedts upon the whole body from this local putrefa&ion, by delaying the e- vacuation too long. Mr. Steidele faw a girl die after this operation, in confequence of a putrid inflammatory fever, and I flrongly fufpedt that the neglefl of the above mentioned rule was the occalion of it. TheIMPERFORATED VAGINA- 283 i lie circumference of the opened part felt hard to die finger, and was very inextenfible. The queffion now was, to prevent its doling up again, and to dilate it by degrees. This could not be % eafily effected by means of a tent, for we found it fell eafily out, efpecially when the patient flood upon her feet. I therefore made choice of a large bougie for this purpofe. The opening was now fo large, that I could pretty eafily pafs ray fore finger through it. I therefore at firft made the bougie of the thicknefs of a finger, and gradually increafed it to above an inch diameter. By the means of a T bandage in the begining, and afterwards by means of ban- dages tied to the end of the bougie and fattened externally by flicking platter, the bougie was kept in its place. At the end of three weeks my pa- tient left me, and I have heard no more of her fince. She was at that time indeed in perfect health, but it was much to be feared, that fhe could not bear284 A CASE OF, &c. bear children without great danger, as the vagina at the perforated place, had almofl entirely loll all degree of extensibility. 1 CHAP. IOF HYDROPS VAGUS. *85 CHAP. XXII. OF HYDROPS VAGUS. I doubt much whether obftru&iens of the vif- cera be the mod frequent or chief caufe of dropfy. I have often found (and what attentive phyfician has not ?) both afcites and hydrothorax without the fmalleft obfervable fault either in the vifcera of the thorax or abdomen, and on the contrary, have often found fuch morbid appearances in the higheft degree, in people where there was not the fmallelt tendency to dropfy. And how indeed could a difeafe like the dropfy, whichOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 286 which is often at the very beginning, and always at the end, a conftitutional ^nd general difeafe, arife from a caule which is merely local, and whLh gives only a local impediment to the circulating fluids ? That a local obftrudlion, a local impediment to the circulation of the lymphatic fluids, may occa- fion a local dropfy, that preflure upon the fperma- tic cord may occafion hydrocele, or that tuber- cles in the lungs may fometimes produce hydro- thorax, I by no means deny ; but that the general derangement in the circulation of the lymphatic fluids, which is fo often obfervable in the dropfy, fhould arife from a local obftrudlion, appears to me very improbable. And why fliould an obftrudlion of the fpleen, liver, &c. only impede the circulation of the wa- tery fluids ; why not impede the circulation of the blood in general ? Should we not have always reafon to expedt, that in dropfy, fuppofing it to a- rife from obftrudlions of this kind, fymptoms of general287 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. general impeded circulation of various kinds in the abdomen and in the lower extremities fhould take place. If obftrudions of the fpleen can oc- calion vomiting of blood, if obdrudions of the li- ver can occafion haemorrhoidal fymptoms, why- then do we not obferve, fometimes at lead in dropfy, haematemalis and haemorrhois, which are the confequenees of obdrudions of thefe vifccra ? How many dropfical people are there not, who During their dropfy, if the water be opportunely evacuated, feel themfelves pretty well, have an appetite for their meat, go about their affairs, traniad all their bufinefs, &c. while thefe people fhould have a confiderable obdruhtion in the al> dominal vifcera, OBSERV. LXXII. I once faw an Italian merchant who fat at an ordinary in Holland, eat- ing with a good appetite, who was all over drop- dead Upon my enquiring into the date of his health, and advifing him not to negled his dileafe; he anfwered, that he found himfelf in other re- fpedsOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 288 fpe&s quite well, and that he was convinced, his difeafe was of little confequence, for that he had already been five times in Holland, had each time got the dropfy, which had always gone off, as foon as he arrived at his home in Italy. 4 It very frequently happens that the difeafe takes many changes during its courfe ; it difappears for a time, and again returns, it is fometimes prefent in a flight, fometimes in an alarming degree, ac- companied with different fymptoms at different times. Is it credible that obflru^lions in the vif- cera, a caufe which continues conflantly to aft in the fame uniform manner, could fo vary and change in its effects ? Debility feems to have a greater {hare in this difeafe. That it fometimes arifes from debility a- lone, and that fometimes tonics only are ne- ceffary to cure the difeafe is beyond difpute. But this happens very feldom, aud in peculiar cafes, which the phyfician cafily finds out from the pre- viousOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 289 vious caufes, evidently debilitating, and from the prefent fymptoms of weaknefs. In the generality of cafes, debility of the whole body, but chiefly of the lymphatic fyffem, feems alone to be the predifpofing c^iufe, and a preter- natural irritation, which ads in fuch a manner on the lymphatic fyftem, as to derange the circula- tion, fecretion, and excretion of thefe fluids, and thus occafions obltruftions, accumulations and effufions, appears to be the common ca ja pro- cat a r flic a. The more irritable and weak the body is, the more eafily does a ftimulus reem to produce drop- fical fymptoms. Hence women are more fubject to dropfy than men. The irritation which might occafion dropfy in a weakly body, would frequently not have had that effect in a flrong perfon. For the moll part there- fore in the cure of dropfy, in ordinary cafes, two things are to be done ; to remove irritation U andOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 2po and to ftrengthen the fyflem. Yet it is by no means to be denied, that dropfy fometimes hap- pens in ftrong and healthy bodies, that debility has no {hare at all in the difeafe, and that to cure the difeafe, there is frequently nothing more re- quired than to remove the irritation which caufes it. * 1 That fuch an irritation is a common caufe of dropfy ; that confequently the dropfy is frequent- ly as it were a fpafmodic difeafe of the lymphatic fyflem, the following circumfiances I think incon- teftably prove. Certain determinate peculiar irritations are fometimes clearly the caufe of the difeafe ; and thefe are the cafes, in which the difeafe is chiefly curable. How many examples are there ofdrop- fies being the confequence of the itch improperly treated ?—of eruptions of the {kin, which have gone in ?—of the venereal poifon, and fuch like ? Who can doubt that the dropfy which follows fear- let fever is to be aferibed to an irritation alone. ButOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 291 But no kind of Simulating matter excites drop- iy more frequently than the rheumatic and gouty. In autumn 1791 when almoll all difeafes were of a rheumatic nature, dropfical fymptoms fometimes accompanied them, which always difappeared, as foon as the materies rheumatica was dehroyed. OBSERV. LXXIII. A patient had a violent rheumatic headach. This fuddenly vanifhed, and immediately after his feet fweiled. Seven days afterwards the headach returned, and the fame night the oedema pedum difappeared. How many cafes are there of dropfy, in confequence of catch- ing cold ? Does not experience teach us chat the dropfy is much more frequent in damp marfliy countries, and there more difficult to cure than in dry countries : that the difeafe in warm climates frequently even difappears of itfelf ? I (hall fpeak of this afterwards more at length in the hi (lory ol a rheumatic dropfy. Dropfy arifing from rheumatic irritation is of the very worft kind. Irritation difficult to be de- Li 2 Itroyed,292 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. ftroyed, and rooted debility here combine in pro- ducing the difeafe. • 1 Even in fuch cafes, where there is no irritation evidently of a peculiar nature exciting the dif- eafe, hill it is probably occafioned by irritation. The dropfy, which in cacochymic and cachectic fubjeds takes place as it were gradually of itfelf, without any particular external or accidental caufe, I do not afcribe, as people generally do, fo much to old difeafes of the vifcera, as to an acrimony and corruption of the lymphatic fluids. Even where obflrudions of the vifcera have adually a lhare in the difeafe, I think it probable, that fuch a caufe ads as a fixed irritation and not as an impediment to circulation. That irritation is a very frequent caufe of dropfy ; that dropfy is often only an affeflus fpaf* iicus fyjlematis lymphatici, we may conclude from the flrer.gth and modus operandi of the medicines particularly recommended againfl it in modern times.293 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. times. The modern phyficians of die higheft au- thority advife the combination of diuretics with antifpafmodics and tonics. Fordyce (Fragmenta medica) recommends a mixture of fquills, fait- petre, pepper and opium. In the London med. Journ. Vol. 2, a mixture of camphor, guaiacum, tartar emetic and opium is recommended. Ma- fon (Med. Obferv. et Inq. V. 6.) extols the effects of opium with the infuf. baccar. junip. fpirituof. Darwin (Med. Tranf. V. 3) recommends bark and opium, and Leake (Med. Inilruft.) a mixture of fait of tartar, acet. fcillit. tinct. antimon, et tincL opii. Mercury which is fo much celebrated in obfti- nate dropfies, perhaps afts lefs as a deobftruent, than as a fedative and antifpafmodic. Thus it operates at leak in tetanus, hydrophobia, and in, all inflammations. OBSERV. LXXIV. An hospital patient, who was exceedingly fwelled, was attacked, I know not from what caufe, with an inflammation U 3 onOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 294 on the infide of his thigh, which gradually became fo violent, that it fuppurated. As the pain from the inflammation became violent, the urine which notwithflanding of every kind of diuretic had hi- therto been very fcanty, began to flow very copi- oufly, and the dropfy gradually vanifhed. After fome time the difeafe returned. All diu- retic medicines were ineffectual. A pain in the fide induced me to apply a bliller there. It had hardly begun to operate, when the urine be- gan to flow and continued to do fo, till all the water was evacuated. It appears to me proba-*- ble that the bliller here aCted as a fedative, or by carrying off the irritation. And blilfers have fre- quently produced equally falutary effe&s in the dropfy : See Parr Mem. Med. Soc. Lond. V. 2. All antimenial medicines, which are of fuch general ute in dropfy, acl perhaps like emetics in fmall dofes, as medicines which remove irrita- tion. Often2 95 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. Often the only queftion in dropfy is, how to re- move an irritation in order to take away the fpal’m which caufes the water to accumulate, and hops up the kidneys. 1 he fyphilitic dropfy par- ticularly proves this, for in proportion as the pa- tient takes his mercury, the urine begins to flow, without the tile of any diuretic medicines. And we cannot believe that mercury here a£ts as a deobftruent. I once faw fuch a patient, who be- gan to make water freely with the fecond table fpoonful of the folution of corrcfive fublimate, and by the continued ufe of this folution, the flow of urine was kept up, till the dropfy entirely difap- peared. A patient (Alix Obfervata chirurgica) was at- tacked with dropfy after an ill cured itch. lie was inoculated with itchy matter, and the difeafe had hardly made its appearance, when the dropfy vanifhed. In fine do not the good effects of rubbing the abdomen with oil, and the flow of urine being by- U 4 this296 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. this means reftored and promoted, clearly prove, that the caufe which prevents the flow of urine is of a ipafmodic nature. The appearances and fymptoms which are of- ten obferved in dropfy, alfo prove that the difeafe / proceeds from irritation and that it is of a fpaf- modic nature. The patients very often have flying pains in their limbs, which fix themfelves for a time in different places, but particularly they have often pains in the abdomen, with an irritated, quick, tenfe pulfe. I could almoft always fay before- hand from the pulfe of the patient, whether he had voided much or little urine. In many the primal viae are fo irritable, that they vomit from the fmalleff dole of fquills, and purge from the fmal- lell dofe of cryftals of tartar. The dry {kin and fparing urine, are not occafion- ed by a deled of watery fluids, but are effeds of an irritation, and of lpafm the confequence of it. InOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 297 In one patient, a few days before a new or increaf- ed 1 well mg, the Ik in always became uncommonly dry, and the urine began to flow very fparingly. I have feveral times i'een a true hydrops vagus» Every one who law the patient could not but per- ceive that a Jiimulus vagus was the caufe of it. Sometimes the neck alone fwelled, fometimes the face, fometimes an arm, fometimes the feet. Twice the patient had all the fymptoms of hydro- thorax, and once ol dropfy of the lungs. He had afc'ites repeatedly. And all thefe fweHings changed and took place fo fuddenly, that in the evening there was not a veflige of that 1welling to be feen, which in the morning was prodigioufly large. The irritating matter which wandered up and down the body, occafioned fymptoms of a nature perfectly different : lor once the patient had actu- ally a feverifh flitch m his fide, and again lor a confiderable while he had the phthifis pituitofa. And during this he was quite free from all dropfi- cal complaints ; but I fhall at the end of the chap- ter298 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. ter relate the hiftory of this patient’s cafe at full length. Another patient who had frequent relapfes of dropfy, had always pains in the limbs, bread, See. fo long, as he was free from dropfy, but as foon as thefe pains vani filed, he again fwelled. Reflleffnefs, anxiety, quick pulfe, cough and coftiyenefs, are common fymptoms in dropfy, and in my opinion are all effedts of an irritation. They are too changeable and inconflant to be af- cribed to other caufes, which adt uniformly, e. g, to the acrimony of the water, the preffure of the water on the vifeera, the defect of fluids, Sec. And why fliould we be furprifed, that amidft all thefe fpafmodic derangements of the circulation, obfirudtions fliould take place ? Is there not rea- fon to believe that the obftruclions which are fometimes met with in dropfical people, are often rather the confequences and effedts, than the caufe of the difeafe ? I amOF HYDROl'S VAGUS. 299 I am far from aliening that dropfy is always oc- cafioned by an irritation, and that it is always a fpafmodic difeafe ; but from the reafons adduced, I am junified in faying, that it fometimes and I fuf- pect often is fo. 1 have furely reafon to affirm, that the cure of dropfy often depends chiefly, if not entirely, upon finding out and removing preterna- tural irritation, and if that cannot be done, and yet fymptoms of a ftate of irritation appear, feda- tives muft be joined with evacuants : and when debility has a fliare in the difeafe, tonics muft. be joined with evacuants. I fhall conclude this article with the hiftory of two cafes, in which my readers will plainly per- ceive an irritating matter wandering through the body, which alternately affected different parts of the body, and occafioned in fucceffion a great va- riety of fymptoms, particularly almofl every kind of dropfy. I call the difeafe hydrops vagus, and think I am right in fo doing. I write the caies plainlyI * * * * * 7 from the journal of the hofpital, and 1 hope thatJOO OF HYDROPS VAGUS. that the inflruclion which they contain, will make up for their prolixity. OBSERV. LXXV. John Dietrich Grei- fenfeld a cloth maker, aged 22 years, was ad- mitted into the hofpital on the 9th of Augull 1790. 9 He was all over dropfical; he had not only a large afcites, but alfo hydrops anafarca over his whole body. In other refpetts he was tolerably well, was without fever and took his meat with appetite. On our quellioning him about the caufe of his difeafe, he could give us no account, but that he had from his childhood, with a delicate irritable conllitution, lived in poverty and mifery, inhabit- ing low, uncomfortable, moift dwellings. By the ufe of a mixture of aq. hyflop. tart, tar- taris. extract, herb, nicot. kerm. miner, and fquilh a great quantity of water palled off by ftool and urine, but without any great amendment upon the whole. Aug. 17 th. lie took an emetic, whj.ch evacuat- edOF HYROPS VAGUS. JOT ed much vifcid bile, and occafioned fome fecu- lent ftools with great relief. 18th. He took cryftals of tartar with tartar eme- tic in fmall dofes. Some feculent llools followed. The fwellings of the lower extremities were quite gone. The upper part of the body was highly oedematous. He complained of violent pains in the feet. % 19th. He got an infuf. herb. card, benedift. flor. fambuc. with fpirit. Minderer. vin. antim. Huxh. and rob. fambuc. 21ft. Feverilli pulfe, headach, refllelfnefs, bad tafte and a foul tongue. An emetic which occa- fioned ftrong bilious vomiting, removed all thefe complaints. From the 23d to the 26th, he took a mixture of fal tartar, acet. fcillit. extract, dulcamar. and vin. antim. Huxh. during which he made much water, and felt himfelf valtly well. 28th. Cough,t 302 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. 28th. Cough, flitch in the bread, diort breath, lies with difficulty on his back. A Wider was ap- plied to his bread, and vin. antimon. Huxh. with 1 tindt. opii. was given him. 30th. Pain of bread gone, cough lefs frequent, and he can now lie with eafe on his back. He got creme of tartar with guaiac, and an infufion of dulcamara. The oedema much diminifhed in the upper part of the body, and indeed almod gone. Sept. 8th. A new, fudden,and general oedema- tous fwelling of the whole bode, with much third, very fraall quantity of urine, and a fmall contrac- ted pulfe. Sept. 9th. Bilious vomiting and many feculent and wateiy doois. By means of creme of tartar the doois were continued for feveral davs, with evident diminution of the oedema. 18th. Idie urine began to flow copioudy. I 28th. IdleOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 3°3 28th. The patient was very well, quite free from pain, and from all dropfical fymptoms, but extremely debilitated. I ordered for him nourifh- ing diet and the Peruvian bark. OCt. 9th. Cough without flitches, fhort breath, flying pains, moflly in the breaft, and a purulent like expectoration. He got falep and dulcamara. 20th. Great inclination to vomit. The pa- tient threw up every medicine which was in the leaf! irritating. Pains in the breaft and abdo- men. Not the fmalleft remains of dropfy to be obferved. Nov. 6th. Frequent purulent expectoration. A true phthifis pituitofa. Evacuations by urine and {tool natural. No more appearance of dropfy. He got lichen illandicus and dulcamara. 9th. In the morning the expectoration was greenifh, during the day quite white. The cough extremely3°4 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. extremely violent. Befides the other medicines, he got a dofe of opium at night. 12th. Violent rheumatic pains in the nape of the neck, where a blifler was applied. 20th. Cough more gentle, expectoration more mucous. All evacuations good ; fleeps well. 26th. The patient better in every refpeCt. Pulfe foft ard calm, cough gentle, expectoration not co- pious, and always more and more mucous. Ap- petite good, excretions natural. Opium difconti- nued. Lichen ifland. and dulcamara continued. Dec. 16th. Cough and expectoration diminifti more and more. He takes befides the lichen ifland. and dulcamara the bark and eiix. vifc. balf. Kleinii. 18th. The patient now quite free from cough. No expectoration whatever. Appetite very good, Evacuations natural. He hill frequently has headach3 °5 OF HYDROPS VAOUS, headach and toothach. As he perfpired fponta- neoufly during the night, thefe alio by degrees went away. 22d. The patient went out of the hofpital per- fectly well, and not the fmalieit remains of any of his complaints were to be obferved. In the hiftory of this cafe who can mi (take an irritating matter wandering about through the bo- dy, which fometimes ocpafioned pains in different parts, fometimes dropfy, fometimes a preternatu- ral irritability and fenfibility of the inteflinal ca- nal, and laflly a true phthifis pituitofa ? But the continuation of the hiftory will convince my read- ers more fully of this. The patient who had left the hofpital in good health about the end of December, wu'ote from Hameln on the 14th of February, that he then was employed as a journeyman clothmaker, and that he enjoyed perfedt health. X July 19 thOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 306 July 19th 1791. He returned to Goettingen.; and to the hofpital again in a miferable condition. I3e faid that he had continued well till the month of May, but had then got the itch, which foon dif- appeared by the ufe of external medicines. Soon after this heobferved a large,circumfcribed, oedematous fwelling like a great goitre on the fore part of his throat. Not long after a fimilar oe- dematous fwelling appeared upon the breah bone, and fome degree of afcites. In June, by the ad- vice of a furgeon, he took Epfom falts with Pyr- mont water for feveral days fucceffively, which purged him brifkly ; and the diarrhoea hill conti- nued, fo that he had three flools daily, without the leak diminution of his dropficai fymptoms. 20th. The day after his return to the hofpital he made little urine, and that very high coloured, had flill the diarrhoea, could not lie upon his back, and coughed much, particularly after lying a while. Water was clearly felt in the abdomen. On the fore part of his neck was a circumfcribed oedematousOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 3°7 oedematous {welling, which ftretched down thin upon the brealt, where it again lvvelled out and fpread. Dulcamara with fpiritus Mindereri increafed the diarrhoea, debilitated the patient, and procur- ed no relief. On the contrary the afcites evi- dently increafed, and the fcrotum became oede- matous. The expectoration alfo again put on a purulent appearance. 26th. The urine began to flow copioufly, and the dropfical fymptoms abated during the ufe of a mixture of tart. emet. fal c. c. and acet. fcillit. though he took it only in fmall dofes, becaufe o- therwife it occafioned vomiting. Aug. 3. Expe6loration and breathing very dif- ficult ; he therefore got gum amnion, and mel fcillit. which however we were foon forced to give up, as they occafioned fevere diarrhoea. Se- neka and tinCt. opii were then given, from which X 2 heOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 3°8 he felt his bread relieved, and the expectoration became more free. 9th. A very reftlefs night. Oedema on the bread increafed, the prepuce very much fwelled. Expectoration lefs. He took crude antimony, dulcamara, and tinCture of opium. The expecto- ration grew eader, but all the dropfical fymptoms increafed to the highed degree. Every diuretic, even in the fmalled dofes excited vomiting and diarrhoea without the lead relief. Urine very fcanty. 14th. An inflammation attended with fever ap- peared on the infide of the thigh, which gradually fpread, and became more violent. The urine which for fome time with the ufe of diuretics had flowed in very fmall quantity, now began fpontaneoufly to flow, and fo copioufly, that by the 20th all dropfi- cal fymptoms had difappeared. The inflamma- tion went into fuppuration. The abfcefs was o- pened, and difcharged good matter.3°9 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. 23d. A circumfcribed oedema again appeared on the throat and breaft in one night. Opium and i fquills were prescribed for him. 24th. Oedema lefs. The patient found him* felf very well; no cough, breathing free, and ap- petite good. The oedema gradually difappeartd. Sept. 2d The oedema again made its appear- ance on the throat and breaft. Laft night the pa- tient had a fenfation of conftri&ion in the throat, fo diftrefling that he was ob iged to fit upright the whole night. He got lac fulphuris. 4th. The oedema had fpread over the whole fore part of the breaft. I he afcites alio again made its appearance. Allies of tobacco were pre- ferred, as the lac fulphuris purged without doing any good. 9th. The tobacco allies occaftoned vomiting; cryftals of tartar were therefore given in place oi it, and volatile liniment was rubbed upon the abdo- men.OF HYDROPS VAGUS. 3T<3 men. The urine flows in fmall quantity, and all the dropfical fymptoms increafe. 16th. The patient felt violent pains in the right fide of his bread. A blifter was applied to his bread. Soon after the pain vanifhed, and the urine began to flow very copioufly. This great flow of urine continued for fome days, and on the 22d not only the afcites, but alfo the ana- farca had completely difappearcd. 25th. The patient found himfelf very well in all refpefts, the urine Hill flowed copioufly. Cough quite gone. Only fome remains dill of oedema in the feet. He took cxtradt. nicotian, and fulph. aurat. antimon. aa gr. j. every three hours. 26th. 1 he oedema of the feet alfo entirely gone. ) 27th. This favourable appearance was again fuiidt-niy rcverfed. The patient had had a very reftlefs night, had a fevere cough, urine in fmall quantity and thick, and he had a very greatdegreeof oedemaOF HYDROPS VAGUS. oedema both in the neck and bread. 1 he pulfe was irritated and quick. Od. ift. Cremor tartari occafioned watery Fools, without the dualled decreafe ot the oedema. The cough became more violent, and the expec- toration purulent. 12th. Pulfe 120. Cough violent, with fame blood in the expectoration. Strong wandering pains in all his limbs. Fluctuation in the abdomen. He got cremor tartari, fquill. tartar, fclub. and ex- trad. hyofciami albi. Next day the complaints of the bread diminilh- ed, the cough and expedoration by degrees en- tirely disappeared, and the pulfe became cairn , out the dropdcal Symptoms remained unchanged, the pains, particularly in the thighs, were very vio- lent, and the Stomach was So irritable and ienfible, that he almod conllantly felt naufea and threw up very eafily. X 4 22d. The312 OF. HYDROI’S VAGUS. 2 2cl. The dropfical fymptoms had again gradu- ally difappeared in confequence of a great flow of urine, but during this time the complaints of the bread again returned, the expectoration became quite pu ulent, the breathing very difficult, the pa- tient could not lie on his back, and an oedematous {welling of his right arm appeared. During the whole month of November the date of the patient was not effentially changed. The ufual fymptoms, cough, purulent expe&oration, pains in the limbs, and the different dropfical fwel- lmgs alternated with one another. The ftomach and inteilines however were always fo irritable, that a!mod every medicine excited vomiting and purging. Upon a trial of camphor, the patient perfpired for fome nights fucceffively, with great rehef. Anxieties, redleffnefs, full pulfe, heat, &c. forced us to lay afide this medicine in a few days. At the end of this month, he feemed particularly to labour under hydropspulmonum'ctpefloris. The whole face was fo much fwelled that his cheeks313 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. hung down like pouches. lie had violent pains be- tween the fhoulders, very difficult refpiration,could not lie down at all, but was obliged conftantly to fit up, coughed without ceafing, and expectorated a quantity of watery mucus. At the beginning of December, he had a gene- ral dropfy in the higheft degree. His eyelids were fhut, fo great was the oedematous Iwelling of the face. He could fcarcely draw his breath, and he coughed incelfantly, fo ftrong were the figns ol in. - drothorax. The oedema of the throat and fore part of the bread; was monftrous. The abdomen, fero- tum, prepuce and feet were all dwelled to the high- eft degree. In fine the fituation of the patient was truely deplorable, and his appearance frightful. Diaphoretics produced great anxiety; cathar- tics operated violently and weakened him without diminifhing the water ; diuretics of whatever kind, had not the leaft efteCt, but eafily occafioned vo- miting. In thefe circumftances, I refolve*! to fcarify the legs, and made in each two punctures withOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 3M with a lancet on the infide of the calf of the leg, which I ordered to be frequently moiftened with Theden’s arquebufaide water. The water flowed conflantly from thefe open- ings for feveral days fucceflively, and all the drop- fical fymptoms gradually difappeared, even the afcites and all the fymptoms of hydrothorax. But the irritability of the inteflinal canal was lo great, that the patient threw up, as often as he failed any thing. Dec. 6th. He became hoarfe, and towards even- ing aphthae made their appearance. * yth. He had a cold fit in the evening fucceed- ed by heat, and what is remarkable, he made three pints of water during the cold fit. For fourteen days fucceflively this fever return- ed towards evening, and every time the urine flow- ed oopioufly during the cold llage. 18th. A*OF HYDROPS VAGUS. 3 15 18th. An eruption appeared on the back which increafed the following days, and appeared to be the itch. He got flowers of fulphur. The pulfe gradually became quite compofed, the bread free, the more copious flow of urine continued, the painful fenfations went away, and every fymptom of dropfy vanifhed. At the beginning of January he got the decoc* tion of logwood, and he felt himfelf quite well for feveral days. The itch feemed to have arifen from infection, for the patient now lay in a bed, in which one in the itch bad lain. But the old complaints again appeared about the middle of January. The oedema of the bread and neck a- gain returned. Fluctuation was alfo again to be felt in the belly. The urine flowed in fmall quan- tity. The pulfe was fmall and irritated. Juni- per berries, fquills and flowers of fulphur were prefcribed, by which the urine flowed again more eopioudy, and the dropfical fymptoms decreafed. • At the beginning of February he had again a fenfeOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 316 fenfe of tenfion in the bread, and pains in the limbs. On the 4th of February he was unexpect- edly attacked with a violent fever ; cold however was apparently the caufe of it. Next day the fe- ver was more violent, and accompanied with a- \ cute pains in the bread,, which extended down to the abdomen. Sal ammoniac was preferibed. A fevere feveridi paroxyfm returned daily. But independent of that, the patient was never free of lever. In the mean while the urine flowed copioufly, and all dropfical fymptoms difappeared. But the pains in his limbs were very acute, and daily changed their place, fo that the whole dif- eafe had the appearance of a rheumatifmus vagus fcbrilis. The pulfe was generally 100. At lad. the pains flxed in the bread, and occalioned a vio- lent continual cough. 9 9' The fever fird began to abate a little on the 16th of February. The cough however was dill fevere. The patient now perfpired fpontaneoufly every night. On the 19th, as the fever was very moderate,OF HYDROPS VAGUS. 317 moderate, he began to take kermes, from which the expe£loration became eafy, thick and concoCt- ed. The cough was more gentle and without pain. During the ufe of the kermes, and continuance of perspiration in the night time, all thofe painful fenfations which had at laft fixed themfelves in the left fhoulder, difappeared, together with the cough and expectoration, fo that by the beginning of March, he was entirely free of every complaint and perfectly well and hearty. He now got trifolium fibrinum, and after he had enjoyed this good health for four weeks unin- terruptedly, and hid regained his ftrength, he was difmilfed fom the hofpital in April. Is it not extremely probable, that nature con- coCted and evacuated by the laft really violent fever, the irritating matter which wandeied through the body, and which had been the cauie of all this varied train of obftinate complaints ? OBSERV.OE HYDROPS VAGUS. OBSERV. LXXVI. Frederick Alschwedb from Bovenden, aged 18 years, a gardener, who had already for feveral years a weak breaft, was frequently attacked with catarrhous fymptoms, cough and coryza, which always ended in a copi- ous expectoration of long continuance. In November he caught cold, having been ex- pofed to cold and rain for a whole day, and foon after he was attacked with pains in both knees, fo that he could not move them. He of his own ac- cord applied a blifter under the knee, and fome days after this, a fwelling appeared in both his legs, which extended above the knees. Soon af- ter the abdomen and face alfb fwe'led. He had at the fame time vague pains in the breaft and arms, and a cough which greatly ag- gravated the pains, with a perfectly purulent, fbmetimes even an afh grey coloured expectora- tion, in which there were often ftreaks of blood, and fometimes even pure blood. With all this he could not eafily lie on the right fide. WhenOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 3*9 When he was admitted into the hofpital his feet were much fwelled. Fiuduation was evi- dently felt in his abdomen. His breathing was fhort. Hcadachs, bad tafte, frequent attacks of fpitting of blood, cough, particularly in the morning, and acute pains in the breaft, and other parts were his chief complaints. His pulfe was full, quick, and fomewhat tenfe. Potio Riverii, fal ammon. and fmall dofes of tartar emetic were pre- fcribed. Dec. 24th. The expectoration was of an afli grey colour, and ftreaked with fome blood. The u- rine flowed pretty copioully,and the dropfical com- plaints appeared to diminifh. Next day he was attacked with a violent fixed pain in his breaft, which was removed by cupping and fcarifying. The bloody expectoration difappeared, and alfo the headach. 30th and 31ft. He had pains in his right arm. His breathing was more free. The urine ftill flowedOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 32° flowed pretty copioufly* and the dropfical fymp- toms continued to decreafe. Jan. 2d. Oedema -pedum and afcites quite gone. But the pains were become more violent, and fometimes fixed in the knee, fometimes in the arm. They were particularly acute in the breaft, on which account a blifier was applied. Upon this the pain went away, but left behind a fenfa- tion of prelfure in the break. ioth. A general amendment followed a fpon- taneous perfpiration. The cough was more gentle, and the expeftoration eafy and purulent. t 16th. The pain of the breaft again became fo acute, that he could with difficulty draw his breath. The volatile liniment leffened it. The pains which ftiifted from one place to another con- tinued. But they were moft frequent and acute in the breaft. 25th. lie began to take camphor and fait- petre.321 OF HYDROPS VAGUS. petre. Oil the 9th of February all the pains were gone except thofe in the breaft. That day he be- gan to take vin. antimon. Huxh. et extract, aconit. Feb. 13th. The patient was attacked with a fe- verifh fit, probably the confequence of having caught cold, attended with pains in all his limbs, particularly in the lower extremities. lie got fpiritus Mindereri and tartar emetic. 14th. The pains were particularly violent in the feet, both of which were much 1 welled. A general perfpiration during the night was fol- lowed by forpe relief next morning. 16th. The pains were again violent, particularly in the feet, knees and hands. The breaft was pretty free. The fu elling of the feet was a lit- tle red ard very filming, the pulfe very feveriih. He got an emuliion with faltpetre. 19th. Fever more moderate. Pulfe calmer and *o.,er. The breaft for the firft time qir e Y freeOF HYDROPS VAGUS. 322 free from pain. Camphor was added to the emul- fion. 20th and 2 iff. A gentle perforation took place, during which the fwelling and pain of the ex- tremities difappeared. The wandering pains how- ever and fome degree of fever hill remained. 22d and 23d. He fweated profufely during the night which produced a remarkable amend- / * ment. The {kin continued moilt for feveral days fucceflively, and during this the fever with all the pains went away, fo that he left the hofpital in the beginning of March entirely free of every com- plaint. CHAP.A CASE OF &c. 323 C H A P. XXIII, A CASE OF ULCERATED BUBO. 1 iOCAL afFe&ions in the parts of generation, however much they may have the appearance of being venereal, are fometimes not fo ; as is proved by the following cafe. OBSERV. LXXVII. Widow Hanne, a Jewels of Amfterdam, aged 66 years, was admit- ted into the hofpital on the 27th of January 1792. For feme time fhe had been troubled with a very nneafy itchy fenfation about the pudenda, and on that account had frequently fcratched thefe parts. Y 2 SheA CASH OF 1 1 Shefhad obfervecl for about a fortnight an inflamed fuelling between the left great labium and the bend- ing of the thigh, which gradually became very large, broke on the 26th of January and difcharged a great quantity of matter. Upon examination it was found that the tumour occupied the whole pice between the labium and the joint of the thigh, that it was very hard, and chiefly compofed of lymphatic glands. From the age of the patient, joined to her alfurances, we could not furpe6l the caufe to be venereal. We could find out nothing which we could confider as the caufe, except a great quantity ol bilious im- purities in the primae vine. The inflammation had alfo a rofy appearance. The want of exter- nal cleanhnefs, to which (he was particularly inat- tentive, might perhaps alfo contribute to it. She was ordered emollient applications exter- nally and tartar emetic and foluble tartar to take in- ternally, and on the the 28th of January an eme- tic*I ULCERATED BUBO. 325 tic was given, which brought away a great quanti- ty of bilious fluff both upwards and downwards. • On the 29th the pains and fwelling were much (liminifhed. Thin matter fh wed from the o- pening in the abfcefs. No fiffula could be dif- covered by means of a probe. 1 he emollient ap- plication? were continued. 1 31ft. The fwelling, hardnefs and pains grow al- ways lefs and lefsthe patient however had an irritated pulfe, a furred tongue, and want of ap- petite ; on which account fhe next day took a dofe of glauber falts, upon which all the above mention- ed complaints difappeared. The hardnefs daily dim ini (lied more and more ; the abfcefs difcharged good pus. In a few days more it was perfectly heal without a veiiige ol Jiardnefs remaining behind. C H A V„ . - iA CASE OF ,3-6 CHAP. XXIV. A CASE OF STEATOM IN THE HAND. JPhe following cafe feems to prove, that lleato- matous fwellings may fometimes be occafioned b) the depolition of fome morbific matter from within, that their extirpation in fuch cafes, is of- ten productive of bad confequences, and occafions a tranflation ol the morbific matter to other parts. I • _ ✓ OBSERV. LXXVIII. Charlotte Wolff, a woman of 25 years of age, had alv ays enjo} ed good health, excepting fome rheumatic complaints, and had been eafily and happily delivered of two children.327 STEATOM IN THE HAND. children. Two years ago, there appeared upon the back oi her left hand, a tumour which relent* bled a ganglion or tendinous knot, of the fize of a hazel nut, which gradually increafed. About Chriitmas a fimilar fuelling appeared in the palm of her hand. After fome weeks a lurgeon, who thought that he felt fluctuation in tne tumoui, o- pencd it on the back of the hand. Nothing flow- ed from it but fome blood, and from that time, the fwelling increafed very rapidly. . When the patient was admitted into the hofpi- tal, the tumour was fo large that hardly any pait of the hand was to be feen. Inllead of her hand, there feemed to hang from her arm a large un-' fliapely mafs, out of which the point of one or two of the fingers projected. Its circumference long- ways was three (Quarters of an ell, and bioadv ays, its circumference was half an ell. The fwelling proceeded equally from the back and fore-part of the hand, lrom the caipus, and ex- tended down to the middle phalanges of the fin- Y 4 gets.A CASE OF gers. On the back of the hand at the part where the furgeon had opened it, there was an ulcerated place of the fize of a crown piece. At its bafe it i was hard, but nearer the furface it felt fomewhat fofter. PrefTure upon it occafioned pain. A fe- tid matter flowed from the opening, and upon founding with the probe, the bones of the hand were found to be carious. The patient was a good deal emaciated, and towards evening had as evident lever. I determined upon amputating the hand. The amputation was performed three fingers’ breadth a- bove the joint of the wrifl. On examining the ampu- tated hand, it was found that the tumour confided of a pretty firm greyifh coloured mafs, that it lay un- der t. e flexor and extenfor tendons, which evident- ly ran over the dwelling on both fides, and that it penetrated through between the ofla metacarpi. The woman felt herfelf pretty well for the firll days alter the operation. The evening fever had evidently dimimlhed. Neither during the opera- tionSTEATOM IN THE HAND. 329 don, nor during the healing of the wound did any thing remarkable take place. The ligature came away on the 4th of April. As the wound however approached towards heal- ing, the woman began to complain of wandering pains in her limbs. On the 7th of April, a mixture of fpirit. Min- derer. et vin. antimon. Huxh. wa* ordered lor her, after which the pains indeed dim.niihed, but did not altogether dilappear. t Towards the end of April, one or the axikary glands ol the amputated arm fwelied and became very painful. On the 31k of May, the wound being heal, and as the woman was anxious to return home, lhe was allowed to go out of the hofpital. About a fortnight after we received accounts, . »^ that the wound continued heal, that the tumour in33° A CASE OF &c. in the axilla had burft, and that the patient was affedled with violent rheumatic pains particularly in the haunches. An ifTue was made in the am- putated arm, and the internal ufe of aconitum and antimony was recommended. The patient however grew worfe. The ulcer in the axilla difcharged a fetid matter. An uninflamed, in- dolent tumour appeared about the clavicle, and another on the upper part of the arm. The pa- tient became heftic, was attacked with incipient blindnefs, and frequent cold fweats, and died in the middle of June emaciated and exhaulted. c H A 1\ ♦331 A CASE OF &c. CHAP. XXV. A CASE OF FUNGUS ARTICULI. In con equence of external bruifes, fbmetimcs after catching cold, and frequently alfo fpontane- oufly, there arifes about the patella a fwelling which is round, pretty regularly circumfcribed, not painful, and in which an evident fluctuation is felt. It fpmetimes occupies both lides of the patella, and is fometimes chiefly confined to the place of the ligament of the patella. It frequent, ly furrounds the whole knee-pan like a faufage. I he patient feels no complaint except foine de- giee of i.ihiiels in the motion of the knee-joint. SuchSuch a tumour mufl on no account be opened, though the fenfation of fluctuation might induce a jfurgeon to think of it; in general nothing flows out except a little bloody water, and threat- ening fymptoms enfue which are connected with real danger. As cafes of this kind are not un- frequent, I fhall only relate one of many. CBSERV. LXXIX. Christoph Ebeling of Ebergotzen, 15 years of age, about three months before received a blow upon his knee, which was followed by a fwelling, which imped- ed his walking. It w7as principally about the ligament of the knee-pan, and was moll prominent when the patient flretched out the leg. The pa- tella feemed to be uncommonly moveable. The patient was in other refpeCls in perfect health ; there wras no pain in the tumor, and fluctuation was plainly felt in it. The fkin of the tumour w'as of a natural colour. The following was my prefeription. I*. Gum. ammon. g j. folve in acet. fcillit. q. /. ad333 FUNGUS ARTICULI. ad confiftentiam unquent. tenuior. which being fpread thick on leather, let it be applied over the whole knee. He took internally tartar eme- tic in fmall dofes. The pi a Her was allowed to remain for a week, and then when it was taken off, a great quantity of watery glutinous fluid was obferved which had penetrated through the fkin. There was not a veftige of the fwelling remaining. The ftiffnefs of the joint, which ftill continued, was removed by the linimentum volatile. I have alfo feen fmiilar fwellings in the joint of the elbow. FINIS.The following Medicines being fometimes mentioned in the foregoing pages, and little known in this country, their Formulae are here fubjoined. ELIXIR VITRIOLI MYNSICHTI. Herbae Menthae Piperitidis Salviae officinalis, aa. 5/r. Radicis Calami, Galangce minoris, Florum Caffiae, aa. 5 j. Cardamomi minoris, 5 iij. Corticis Citri, 5 ij. incifis, contufis, infunde Spiritus Vini reftificatiff. % xxx. Digere per tridu- urn, tunc exprime, Ultra per chartam bibulam, et adde Acidi vitriolici diluti, 3 vj. SCHMUCKER’s VISCERAL PILLS. R». Gum. Galbani, Gagapeni, Sapon. Venet. aa. 3 j. Pulv. Khei 3 fo- • Tartar, emet. in Aq. font, q.f fob gr, xvj. Succ, Liquiritise 5 j. M. fiant Pil. gran. j. THEDEN’sI A [ 336 j THEDF.X’s ARQUEBUS AIDE WATER. ]£,. Aceti Vini elefli, Spi’itus Vini re&ifieat. aa. 5 xxxvj. Spiritus Vitriol,! ^ x. Sacchaii albi % xij. (alias facile omiti-endi.) Mixta filtrentur et aflerventur ufui in vafe probe claufo. Vcl, J^. Spirit. Vini reflificatitt. 5 xxxvj. cui fenfim et gut- tatim indillantur Acid, vitriol. 5 fs. dein adde Succ. Folior. Querci, 5 vj. Herd a; acetofae, 5 xij. Millcfolii, 5 vj. M. fervetur ufui.