127 SUBSTANTIAL VEGETABLES. fried gently till the edges begin to brown; they are served with chopped parsley and pepper and salt. Hie butter should be poured over the potatoes, and supplies the fatty element which potato lacks. Potatoes d la Maitre d'Hotel.—These are very similar to potato saute, the difference being, that they are not browned at the edges. Small kidney potatoes are best for the purpose. These must be boiled till tender, and the potatoes then cut into slices. These must be warmed up with a spoonful or two of white sauce {see White Sauce), to which is added some chopped parsley and a little lemon-juice. A more common way is to boil the potatoes, slice them up while hot, and then toss them about in a vegetable-dish lightly with a lump of what is called Maitre d'Hotel butter. This is simply a lump of plain cold butter, mixed with chopped parsley, till it looks like a lump of cold parsley and butter. When tossed about squeeze a little lemon-juice over the whole and serve. Potatoes, New.—New potatoes should be washed and the skin, if necessary, rubbed off with the fingers ; they should be thrown into boiling water, slightly salted, and as a rule re- quire from fifteen to five-and-twenty minutes to boil before they are done. During the last few minutes throw in one or two sprigs of fresh mint, drain them off and let them dry, and then place them in a vegetable-dish with the mint and a little piece of butter, in which the potatoes should be boiled to give them a shiny appearance outside. New potatoes can also be served with a little white sauce to which has been added a little chopped parsley. Potato Balls.—Mash some boiled potatoes with a little butter, pepper, salt, chopped parsley, chopped onion, or still better, shallot, and add a few savoury herbs. Mix up one or two or more well-beaten eggs, according to the quantity of potato, roll the mixture into balls, flour them, and fry them a nice brown colour, and serve. Potato Croquettes or Cutlets.—These are very similar to potato balls, only they should be smaller and more delicately flavoured. The potatoes are boiled and mashed, and, if the croquettes are wished to be very good, one or two hard-boiled