JELLIES (vegetarian) AND JAMS. 159 be made into jelly in two ways, both of which are perfectly lawful in vegetarian cookery. The juice, like red currant iuice, can be boiled with a large quantity of white sugar till the ielly sets of its own accord; in this case we should require one pound of sugar to every pint of juice, and the result would be a blackberry jelly like red currant jelly, more like a pre- serve than the jelly we are accustomed to eat at dinner alone. For instance, no one would care to eat a quantity of red currant ielly like we should ordinary orange or lemon jelly—it would be too sickly ; consequently we will take a pint or a quart of our blackberry iuice only and sufficient sugar to make it agreeably sweet without being sickly. We will boil this in a saucepan and add a tablespoonful of corn-flour mixed with a little cold juice to every piut to make the juice thick. This can be now poured into a mould or plain round basin ; we will suppose the latter. When the jelly has got quite cold we can turn it out on to a dish, say a silver dish, with a piece of white ornamental paper at the bottom. We now have to ornament this mould ot black- berry jelly, and, as a rule, it will be found that no ornament can surpass natural ones. Before boiling the blackberrie^ for the purpose of extracting their juice, pick out two or three dozen of the largest and ripest, wash them and put them by with some of the young green leaves of the blackberiy plant itself which should be picked as nearly as possible of the same size, and, like the blackberries, must be washed. Now place a row of blackberry leaves round the base of the mould, with the stalk of the leaf under the mould, and on each leaf place a ripe blackberry touching the mould itself Take four very small leaves and stick them on the top of the mould, m the centre, and put the largest and best-looking blackberry of a 1 upright in the centre. This dish is now pretty-lookmg enough to be served on really great occasions. We <x,nsider this dish worthy of being called blackberry jelly, and not corn-flour pudding. Lemon Jelly —Take six lemons and half a pound of sugar, and rub the sugar on the outside of three of the lemons; the lemons must be hard and yellow, the peel should not be shrivelled. Now squeeze the juice of all six lemons into a basin, add the sugar and a pint of water. Of course, the