VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 92 semicircle, and bring the spoonful of unset fluid to join them over the edge. Slide off the omelet on to a hot dish with an egg-slice. Omelet with Fine Herbs.-—Chop up a dessertspoonful of parsley, and add a good pinch of powdered savoury herbs, add these with pepper and salt to the six beaten-up eggs in a basin. Beat up the eggs, either slightly or very thoroughly, according to whether you use two ounces of butter or four. Proceed in every respect, in making the omelet, as directed for plain omelet above. Omelet with Onion.—Proceed exactly as in the above recipe, only adding to the chopped parsley a piece of onion or shallot about as big as the top of the thumb down to the first joint, also very finely chopped. When onion is used in making an omelet a little extra pepper should be added. Omelet with Cheese.—Proceed as if making an ordinary omelet, with four ounces of butter. Add to the six well beaten- up eggs about four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese ; a small quantity of cream will be found a great improvement to this omelet. A little pepper and salt must, of course, be added as well. Potato Omelet.—Mix three ounces of a floury potato with six eggs, a little pepper and salt, .and half a pint of milk, and make the milk boil and then stand for a couple of minutes before it is mixed with the eggs; pour this mixture into three or four ounces of butter, and proceed as in making an ordinary omelet. Potato Omelet, Sweet.—Proceed exactly as above, only instead of adding pepper and salt mix in a brimming table- spoonful of finely powdered sugar, the juice of a lemon, with half a grated nutmeg. Cheese Souffle.—To make a small cheese souffle in a round cake-tin, proceed as follows :—Make the tin very hot in the oven. Put in about an ounce of butter, so as to make the tin oily in every part inside. The tin must be tilted so that the butter pours round the sides of the tin as well as the bottom. Take two eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, and beat the whites to a stiff froth ; beat up the two yolks very thoroughly