VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 180 on the top and then put on a heavy weight. When this is done, you must remember to allow room for the cake to rise. A pound cake such as we have described can be made into a rich fruit cake by adding stoned raisins, currants, chopped candied peel, sultana raisins, or, better still, dried cherries. In making ordinary cakes, when currants are used, they should be first washed and then dried ; if you use damp currants the cake will probably be heavy. With regard to the flour, it is cheapest in the end. to use the best quality, and the flour should be dried and sifted. If you weigh the flour remember to dry and sift it before you weigh it, and not after. In using sugar get the best loaf; this should also be pounded and sifted. In using eggs, of course each egg should be broken separately. Yery often it is necessary to separate the yolks from the whites. This requires some little skill; you are less likely to break the yolk when you crack the egg boldly. Put the yolk from one half egg-shell into the other half, spilling as much of the white as you can. You will soon get the yolks separate. Next, remember before mixing the eggs to remove the thread or string from them. When the whites are beaten separately, you must whisk them till they become a solid froth; no liquid should remain at the bottom of the basin. The yolks should not be broken till they are wanted. Lemon-peel is often used in making cakes, and in chopping it a little powdered sugar is a great assistance in preventing the peel sticking together. Remember only to use the yellow part, not the white. The white part gives the cake a bitter flavour. Sometimes milk or cream is used in cake-making. If Swiss milk is used as a substitute, remember that less sugar will be required. When pounded almonds are used for cakes, the almonds must be blanched by being thrown, first into boiling water, and then into cold water. In pounding them, add a little rose- water or orange-flower water, or the white of an egg, to prevent the almonds getting oily. Nearly all plain cakes, where only a few eggs are used, will be made lighter by the addition of a little baking-powder. A