Cheap JEditioUf 2s. The Art of Cooking by Gas- By Marie Jenny Sugg. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. SOME OPINIONS OF THE PRESS *^ A most useful handbook. . . . Parties about to furnish will do well to see what Mrs. Sugg has to say on the subject. Besides giving an account of the latest types of gas stoves, the author explains how they are to be used for the production of all the dishes likely to be required even in an epicure's family, while the recipes will be found equally serviceable where high thinking is combined with plain living."—St. James's Gazette, " This book should find a place in all houses where gas stoves are used in the kitchen."—Literary World. "The application of gas-heat to food is certainly one of those branches of cooking which every woman nowadays would find it useful to master. It everyone understood it as well as Mrs Sugg^ the prejudice against gas-cooking would soon die out. It is more economical, it is cleaner, it is far less trying to the cook, and in com- petent hands it is much more equal and certain in its results than the cooking on the old-fashioned ranges. In every recipe in this capital and varied collection the management of the gas is included, but the recipes themselves, apart from that speciality, are so sound and good that the book will be a valuable guide in many a kitchen where there is no gas."—Bradford Observer. " ' The Art of Cooking by Gas' is treated in an exhaustive and intelligent manner by Marie Jenny Sugg. An introduction discusses the merits of gas as a cooking agent. Then the various appliances are fully described with diagrams, and general directions follow as to operations. The larger portion of the book contains carefully com- piled menus, with ample special instructions for cooking them by gas. The book appears to be excellent for its purpose."—Scotsman. " Nothing, indeed, ever can or ever will equal the open coal, charcoal, wood, or even peat fire for roasting and grilhng. But even for these the gas stove is far superior to the ordinary roaster of the ordinary closed coal range; while for stewing, frying, braising, and boiling it cannot be beaten."—Manchester Guardian. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London ; and all Booksellers,