VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 24 consistency of cream. Serve some fried or toasted bread with the soup It is a*great improvement to add half a pint of cream, but this makes the soup much more expensive. The soup can be flavoured with a little white pepper. jSj-.B. The onion and celery that was strained off can be used again for flavouring purposes. Apple Soup.—This is a German recipe. Take half a dozen o-ood-sized apples, peel them and remove the core, and boil them fn a quart of water with two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs ; add the juice of a lemon, and flavour it with rather less than a quarter of an ounce of powdered cinnamon ; sweeten the soup with lump sugar, previously having rubbed six lumps on the outside of the lemon. Artichoke Soup—Take a dozen large Jerusalem artichokes about as big as the fist, or more to make up a similar quantity. Peel them, and, like potatoes, throw them into cold water in order to prevent them turning colour. Boil them in as little water as possible, as they contain a good deal of water them- selves, till they are tender and become a pulp, taking care that they do not burn, and therefore it is best to rub the saucepan at the bottom with a piece of butter. Now rub them through a wire sieve and add them to a pint of milk in which a couple of ba3^-leaves have been boiled. Add also two lumps of sugar and a little white pepper and salt. Serve the soup with fried or toasted bread. This soup can be made much richer by the addition of either a quarter of a pint of cream or a couple of yolks of eggs. If yolks of eggs are added, beat up the yolks separately and add the soup gradually, very hot, but not quite boiling, otherwise the yolks will curdle. Asparagus Soup.—Take a good-sized bundle (about fifty large headsf of asparagus, and after a thorough cleansing throw them into a saucepan of boiling water that has been salted. When the tops become tender, drain off the asparagus and throw it into cold water, as by this means we retain the bright green colour ; when cold cut off all the best part of the green into little pieces, about half an inch long, then put the remainder of the asparagus—the stalk part—into a saucepan, with a few green onions and a few sprigs of parsley, with about a quart of stock or water ; add a teaspoonful of pounded sugar