Ill SAVOURY DISHES. the middle of the dish so that the centre is raised above the edge. Let this get quite cold, then cover it with piifF-paste, and as soon as the pastry is done take it out of the oven and let the pie get cold. This can now be cut in slices. Mushroom Pudding.—Make a mixture of mushrooms, potatoes, &c., exactly similar to that for making a pie. Place this in a basin with only sufficient water to moisten the in- gredients, cover the basin with bread-crumbs soaked in milk, and steam the basin in the ordinary way. ^ Tomatoes, Grilled.— What is necessary is a clear fire and a gridiron in which the bars are not too far apart. The disputed point is, should the tomatoes be grilled whole or cut in half 1 This may be considered a matter of taste, but personally we prefer them grilled whole. Moisten the tomato in a little oil or oiled butter, and grill them carefully, as they are apt to break. Grilled tomatoes are very nice with plain boiled macaroni, or can be served up on boiled rice. Tomatoes, Baked.—Place the tomatoes in a tin with a little butter, and occasionally baste them with the butter. When they are tender, they can be served either plain or with boiled macaroni or rice. The butter and juice in the tin should be poured over them. Tomatoes, Tried.—Place the tomatoes in a frying-pan with a little butter, and fry them until they are tender. Pour the contents^ of the frying-pan over them, serve plain, or with macaroni or rice. Tomatoes, Stewed.—Take half a dozen good-sized tomatoes, and chop up very finely one onion about the same size as the tomatoes. Moisten the bottom of a stew-pan with a little butter, and sprinkle the chopped onion over the tomatoes. Add a dessertspoonful of water; place the lid on the stewpan, which ought to fit tightly. It is best to put a weight on the lid of the stew-pan, such as a fiat-iron. Place the stew-pan on the fire, and let them steam till they are tender. They are cooked this way in Spain and Portugal, and very often chopped garlic is used instead of onion. Tomatoes au gratin.—Take a dozen ripe tomatoes, cut off the stalks, and squeeze out the juice and pips. Next take a