176 VEGETARIAN' COOKERY. ta"ke the tin in your two hands, and turn it round and round, first one way and then another. In a very short time you will find the tin to contain lemon-wat^r ice. The following hints, rather than recipes, for making ices, i.e., for making the liquid, which must be fi^ozen as dii'ected alx>ve, are given not because they are the best recipes, but because cream, which is the basis of all first-class ices, is often too expensive to l^e used constantly. Of course, real cream is far superior to any substitute. Ice Cream, Cheap.—Make a custard (see Custard) with half a pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, and a table- spoonful of Swiss milk and some sugar. As soon as it gets a little thick, stii' it till it is nearly cold, then add some essence of vanilla or almonds, or a wineglassful of noyeau, or any fiavouiing wished, and freeze. Ices from Fresh Fruits.—Take half a pound of fresh straw- berries or rasjjberries, add half that weight of sugar, pound thorou,£rhly, rub through a sieve, and mix with this thick juice, rubljed through, half a pint of the mixture made for ice cream (see Ice Cream, Cheap), only, of course, without nny flavouring such as vanilla, etc. Mix thoroughly, and freeze. X.B.—A few red currants should be mixed with the ras|> berries. Should the colour be poor, brighten it up before freezing with a little cochineal. Ices from Jam.—Mix a quarter of a ^x)und of any jam with half a pint of the mixture made for ice cream (see Ice Cream, Cheap), without any flavouring such as vanilla. Eub all through a fine sieve, and fi'eeze. Cochineal will give addi- tional colour to red jams; spinach extract to green jams ; and a very little turmeric, or yellow vegetable colouring, to yellow jams. A small pinch of turmeric can be boiled in the milk. Ice, Lemon-Water.—Rub six lumps of sugar on the rind of six lemons, add this and the juic€ of six lemons to a pint of fairly sweet synip. The amount of sugar is a matter of taste. Strain and freeze. Some persons add a few drops of dilute sulphuric acid. Ice. Orange-Water.—Act exactly as in lemon-water,