120 VEGETARIAN COOKERY. Frangipane Fritters.—Make a Erangipane cream by mix- ing eggs with a little cold potato, butter, sugar, and powdered ratafias, the proportion being a quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, six ounces of sugar, one cold floury potato, and a quarter of a pound of ratafias. Bake or steam this until it is set, and proceed as in custard fritters. Many persons add the flavouring of a little rum. Peach Fritters.—These are made exactly similar to apricot fritters, bearing in mind that if they are made from tinned peaches only the flrm pieces, and not pulpy ones, must be used for the purpose. Proceed exactly as directed for apricot fritters. If any liqueur is used, noyeau is best adapted for the purpose. Potato Fritters.—Mix up some floury potato with a quarter of a pound of butter, a well-beaten-up egg, and three ounces of sugar, some of which has been rubbed on the outside of a lemon. The addition of a little cream is a great improvement. Roll the mixture into small balls and flour them ; they are then fried just as they are, without being dipped into batter. Pine-apple Fritters.—These can be made from fresh pine- apples or tinned. They should be cut into slices like apple fritters if • the pine-apple is small, but if the pine-apple is large they can be cut into strips three inches long and one wide and half an inch thick. These must be dipped in powdered sugar, then into batter, and finished as directed for apple fritters. If any liqueur is used, maraschino is best adapted to the purpose. Orange Fritters.—Only first-class oranges are adapted for this purpose. Thick-skinned and woolly oranges are no use. Peel a thin-skinned ripe orange, divide each orange into about six pieces, soak these in a syrup flavoured with sugar rubbed on the outside of an orange, and if liqueur is used make the syrup with brandy. After they have soaked some time, re- move any pips, dip each piece into batter, and proceed as directed for apple fritters. Cream Fritters.— Rub some lumps of sugar on the outside of an orange, pound them, and mix with a little cream; take