81 EGGS AND OMELETS. the oven will set the upper part of the eggs, and there is no danger of the bottom part being burnt. There is a great art in taking fried eggs out of a frying- pan and serving them on a dish. Fried eggs, to look nice, should have the yolk in the centre, surrounded by a ring of white, perfectly round, rather more than an inch in breadth. Take an egg-slice in the left hand, slide it under each egg separately, so that the yolk gets well into the middle of the slice. ]N"ow take a knife in the right hand and trim oft the superfluous white. By this means you will be able to do it neatly. The part trimmed away is virtually refuse. Of course, you do not throw away more than is necessary, but take care that the white rim round the yolk is of uniform breadth. Most cooks take the egg out with their right hand, and attempt to trim it with the left; the result is about as neat as what would happen were you to attempt to write a letter with your left hand in a hurry. Yery often the appearance of fried eggs is improved by sprinkling over them a few specks of chopped parsley. In placing fried eggs on toast, place the slice over the toast and draw the slice away. Do not push the egg on; you may break it. Eggs, Poached.—The best kitchen implement to use for poaching eggs is a good large frying-pan. The mistake is to let the water boil; it should only just simmer. You should avoid having the white of the egg set too hard. We should endeavour to have the eggs look as white as possible. In order to insure this, put a few drops of vinegar or lemon- juice into the water, break the eggs separately into a cup, and then turn them very gently into the hot water. When they are set fairly firm take them out with an egg-slice, using the left hand as before, and trim them with the right. It is not necessary, in poached eggs, to have a clear yolk surrounded with a white uniform ring. Poached eggs often look best when the yolk reposes in a sort of pillow-case of white. Before putting them on toast or spinach, &c., be very careful to drain off* the water; this is particularly important when the water is acid, especially with vinegar. Eggs, Hard-boiled.—Place the eggs in cold water, bring D