Entirely New and Up-to-date Work. Cassells Family Doctor. A New and Original Work. By a medical MAN. Demy 8vo, 768 pages, 705. 6d, "We have the utmost pleasure, as well as complete confidence in recom- mending Cassell's Family Doctor, written by a medical man, as a perfect mine of valuable information respecting food, water, drmk, ventilation, and a hundred other things which affect our health. Not only is instruction afforded as to the best way to preserve health, but almost every kind of disease is dealt with—symptoms, development, and treatment are described in plain language, free from technical phraseology as far as possible. The chapters dealing with children's di>eases, their detection and treatment, will be of special value to teachers in their work. Chapters on sick nursing, household surgery, accidents, bandaging, prescriptions-all add greatly to the value of the book. There is a very copious index. If information such as is here contained were only possessed by people generally, much suffering would be prevented, and many precious lives would be saved."—Schoolmist7'ess. most invaluable help and counsellor in all time of individual or family illness. The plaa of the work is systematic, while the explanations are full and simple, and the prescriptions popular in style. No household need now be without guidance in the event of any emergency, and the commoner ailments of life may be warded off without external aid."—The Chrisuan. There can be no more useful book for a country house than Cassells Family Doctor. It is a new book, written, so we are told, by a medical man of wide experience and brilliant attainments as a practitioner, and it certainly bears evidence o^ an extended and intimate knowledge of the causes and treatment of disease. The book lacks nothing in clearness or conciseness, and its directions can easily be followed in any emergency that may arise."—^'all Mall Gazelle. **The arrangement of the contents can scarcely be better, for the diseases are arranged according to the age of the patient; in other words, the physical perils of infancy, childhood, maturity, and old age. The book is packed with clear and practical hints and directions, and many of them are concerned as much with prevention as with cure."—Speaker, " A work of great value to the general public."—Chrislian Age. CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ltidgale Hill, London; and all Booksellers.