VEGETARIAN COOKERY. 184 ments Take half a pound of the best Vienna flour, and mix with it, while dry, about a salt-spoonful of baking-powder Bow add about a tablespoonful of olive oil, and work the oi and flour together with the fingers exactly as you work a small piece of butter into the flour at the commencement of making puff paste Next add sufiicient water to make the whole into an elastic paste; roll it out and let it set between two tins containing ice, similar to the method used m making high- clahS^astry.^ i^entioned a tablespoonful of oil, but if ice is used more oil may be added. We all know that oil will freeze at a much lower tempera- ture than water, consequently the minute particles of oil become partially solid. Now take the paste, roll it out, and give it three turns; roll it out again, give it three more turns, Ind put it back in the ice; let it stand ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, and repeat this process three times. Be careful to flour the pastry each time before it is turned. By this means we get the pastry in thin layers, with minute air bubbles between them, and this will cause the pastry to rise. If you are making a pie, roll out the pastry the last time, cover the pie, and put it in the oven immediately, while the pastry is cold. Do not let the pastry stand, unless it be m a very cold place. i i This pastry we have just described, made with oil, can also be utilised for puddings, in which latter case we would recom- mend the addition of a little more baking-powder, and to every pound of flour add two tablespoonfuls of very fine bread- crumbs. These must be dry, and rubbed through a fine sieve. Pastry with Butter.—Good puff paste is made by taking equal quantities of butter and flour---say a pound of each—the yolk of one egg, a pinch of salt, while the water used is acidu- lated with lemon-juice. For the manipulation of this pastry we must refer those who do not know how to make it to other cookery books, or to the shilling one above mentioned. In making ordinary paste we must use less butter; and when we. use considerably less butter, if we wish the pastry light, we shall require baking-powder. The quantity depends very much upon the quality. Many