An Entirely New and Original Work. CasselFs Family Lawyer. A Popular Exposition of the Civil Law of England and Scotland. By A BARRISTER-AT-LAW. Complete in One Vol., 1,144 pages, royal 8vo, 705. 6d. The value of this woik is increased by the exhaustive Index with which it is furnished. " Many and valuable have been the publications of Messrs. Cassell, but The Family Lawyer promises to be the most valuable of all. Law is a heavy and complicated subject for the non-legal mind, but the barrister who is compiling this work has succeeded so far in per- forming his arduous task with praiseworthy simplicity and clearness. The work will form an admirable handbook to those uninitiated in a most important and difficult swh]QcC—Sheffield Independent. "Cassell's Family Lawyer is the latest, and as it seems to us, one of the best handbooks issued from La Belle Sauvage Yard. It is written in a pleasant and agreeable style by 'A Barrister-at-Law' who has literary skill as well as legal ability. The examples given are clearly and convincingly put, are easily comprehended by the lay mind, and are exhaustive enough to cover all ordinary cases. The chapters devoted to commercial law especially are excellent."—/"(^/Z Mall Gazette. "Its scope is so comprehensive as to cover family relations, land- lord and tenant, commerce, succession, lending and borrowing, and * the law of the citizen ;' and it goes as deeply into these matters as is good for anybody to go without professional guidance. Among books of its kind it has the distinction of being exceptionably readable. While a layman will probably find in it all he wants, it is so well arranged and so well indexed for purposes of reference that it might help a trained lawyer at a pinch."—Scotsman. What a Solicitor says about Cassell's Family Lawyer : "The work is an admirable one, and although I am an old hand in the profession I have found it a most excellent reminder of many forgotten things. I have sent many copies to friends practising in the Colonies, and they have much appreciated the contents.—R. G." CASSELL & COMPANY, Limited, Ludgate Hill, London; and all Booksellers, d