115 SAVOURY DISHES. cayenne pepper and mustard. Melt some cheese in a stew-pan with a little butter, mix in the pickles, and serve on toast. Welsh Rarebit.—Toast a large slice of bread; in the mean- time melt some cheese in the saucepan with a little butter. When the cheese is melted it will be found that a good deal of oiled butter floats on the top. Pour this over the dry toast first, and then pour the melted cheese afterwards. Some persons add a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce to the cheese, and others a tablespoonful of good old Burton ale over the top. Ayoli.—This is a dish almost peculiar to the South of France. Soak some crusts of bread in water, squeeze them dry, and add two cloves of garlic chopped fine, six blanched almonds, also chopped very fine, and a yolk of an egg; mix up the whole into a smooth paste with a little oil. Pumpkin a la Parmesane.—Cut a large pumpkin into square pieces and boil them for about a quarter of an hour in salt and water, and take them out, drain them, and put them m a stew-pan with a little butter, salt, and grated nutmeo- • fry them, sprinkle them with a little Parmesan cheese, and bake them for a short time in the oven till the cheese begins to melt, and -then serve. This is an Italian recipe. Zucchetti farcis.—Take some very small gourds or pump- kms, boil them for about a quarter of an hour in salt and water, and then fill them with a forcemeat made as follows • Take some crumb of bread and soak it in milk, squeeze it and add the yolks of two hard-boHed eggs and two raw yolks ; chop up very finely half a dozen blanched almonds with a couple of cloves ; add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a little salt and grated nutmeg. Stew these gourds in butter and serve them with white sauce. Stulfed Onions (Italian fashion).—Parboil some laro-e onions, stamp out the core after they have been allowed to get quite cold in a little water; fill the inside with forcemeat similar to the above; fry them, squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, with a little pepper. Polenta.—Polenta is made from ground Indian corn, and is seen m Italian shop-windows in the form of a yellow powder;