SUBSTANTIAL VEGETABLES. 131 Potatoes, Broiled.—Potatoes are served this way some- times in Italy. They are first boiled in their skins, but not too long. They are then taken out and peeled, cut into thin slices, placed on a gridit-on, and grilled till they are crisp. A little oil is poured over them when they are served. Potatoes ^ la Lyonnaise.—First boil and then peel and slice some potatoes. Make some rather thin pur^e of onion. {See Sauce Soubise.) Pour this over the potatoes and serve. Another way is to first brown the slices of potatoes and then serve them with the onion sauce, with the addition of a little vinegar or lemon-juice. Potatoes d la Provenqale.—Put a small piece of butter into a stew-pan, or three tablespoonfuls of oil, three beads of garlic, the peel of a quarter of a lemon, and some parsley, all chopped up very fine ; add a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Peel some small potatoes and let them stew till they are tender in this mixture. Large potatoes can be used for the purpose, only they must be cut up into pieces. Add the juice of a lemon before serving. Haricot Beans.—It is very much to be regretted that haricot beans are not more used in this country. There are hundreds of thousands of families who at the end of a year would be richer in purse and more healthy in body if they would consent to deviate from the beaten track and try haricot beans, not as an accompaniment to a dish of meat, but as an article of diet in themselves. The immense benefit derived in innumerable cases from a diet of beans is one of the strongest and most practical arguments in favour of vegetarianism. Meat-eaters often boast of the plainness of their food, and yet wonder that they suffer in health. It is not an uncommon thing for a man to consult his doctor and to tell him, " I live very simply, nothing but plain roast or boiled." Medical men are all agreed on one point, and that is that haricot beans rarnk almost first among vegetables as a nourishing article of diet. In writing on this subject, Sir Henry Thompson observes, "Let me recall, at the close of these few hints about the haricot, the fact that there is no