133 SUBSTANTIAL VEGETABLES. off, and tos-s them lightly about with the crust without brealang the beans. Eemove the crust and moisten the beans while hot with a lump of butter, add a brimming dessertspoonful of chopped blanched parsley ; squeeze the juice of a lemon over the whole, and serve. Instead of butter we can add, as they always do in Italy, two or three tablespoonfuls of pui^ olive oil Those who have conquered the unreasonable English prejudice against the use of oil will probably find this superior to butter. , If the beans are served in the form of a puree, it is always best to boil a few onions with them and rub the onions through the wire sieve with the beans, taking care that the quantity ot onion is not so large tj^at it destroys and overpowers the delicate and delicious flavour of the beans themselves. Next, we would call attention to the importance ot not throwing away the water in which the beans were boiled. This water contains far more nourishment than people are aware of and throughout the length and breadth of France, where economy is far more understood than in this country, it is invariably saved to assist in making some kind of soup, and as our soup will, of course, be vegetarian, the advantage gained is simply incalculable. Flageolets.—These are haricot beans in the fresh .green state, and are rarely met with in this country, though they form a standing dish abroad. They are exceedingly nice, and can be cooked in a little butter like the French cook green Deas They are often flavoured with garlic, and chopped parsley can be added to them. Those who are fond of this vegetable in the fresh state can obtain them m tins from any high-class grocer, as the leading firms in this country keep them in this form for export. Peas Dried.—Dried peas, like dried beans, contain a very o-reat amount of nourishment. Indeed, in this respect,^ prac- tically, dried beans, dried peas, and lentils may be considered equal Dried peas are met with in two forms—the split yellow pea and those that are dried whole, green. Split peas are chiefly used in this country to make pea soup, or pur6e of peas and peas puddixig. We have alrea dy given recipes for the two former, and will now describe how to make—