185 PIES AND PUDDINGS. persons make their own baking-powder, and we cannot recom- mend any better than the recipe given in the last chapter, viz., an ounce of tartaric acid, an ounce and a half of bicar- bonate of soda, and an ounce and a half of arrowroot. A great deal, too, depends upon the quality of the flour. Vienna flour is much more expensive than ordinary flour, but incom- parably superior. What limit we can assign to the quantity of butter used it is impossible to say. A quarter of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, and a teaspoonful of baking- powder, will make a fair crust. When less butter is used the result is not altogether satisfactory. Puddings.—We next come to the very large class of pud- dings in which suet is used. The ordinary plum pudding is a case in point. The best substitute for suet, of course, is butter oi oil; a plum pudding, however, made without suet, would un- doubtedly be heavy, and, to avoid this, we must use butter, bread-crumbs, and baking-powder. It would be impossible to give any exact quantity, as so much depends upon the other in- gredients. Some people use bread-crumbs only in making plum pudding, and no flour, in which case, of course, a very consider- able number of eggs must be used or else the pudding will break to pieces. In the case, however, of oil being used as a substitute for butter, it is of the utmost importance that the oil be pure and fresh. We here have to overcome a deeply- rooted English prejudice. Pure oil is absolutely tasteless, and it has often been remarked by high-class authorities that really pure butter ought to be the same. We fear, how- ever, that purity in food is the exception rather than the rule as at no period of this country's history has the crime of adulteration been so rampant as in the present day. Adulteration has been said to be another form of competi- tion. Too often adulteration is a deliberate form of robbery. Steps have been taken in recent years to put a stop to this universal svstem of fraud, more especially in connection with butter. Were more Acts passed similar to the ^'Margamie Act " we believe that this country would be richer and happier, and without doubt more healthy. In that lar ge class of puddings known as custard pudding, cabinet pudding, there is no difference whatever m vegetarian