SUBSTANTIAL YEGETABLES. 229 be filled with white haricot beans piled up in the shape of a dome, with some chopped parsley sprinkled over the top. There are, perhaps, few dishes in vegetarian cookery that can be made to look more elegant. Potato Biscuits {M. TJdesRecijJG),—Take fifteen fresh eggs, break the yolks into one pan and the whites into another. Beat the yolks with a pound of sugar pounded very fine, scrape the peel of a lemon with a lump of sugar, dry that and pound it fine also ; then throw into it the yolks, and work the eggs and sugar till they are of a whitish colour, is'ext whip the whites well and mix them with the yolks. Now sift half a pound of fiour of potatoes through a silk sieve over the eggs and sugar. Have some paper cases ready, Avhich lay on a plafond with some paper underneath. Fill the cases, but not too full; glaze the contents with some rather coarse sugar, and bake the whole in an oven moderately heated. Potato Bread.—In making bread, a portion of mashed potato is sometimes added to the flour, and this addition im- proves the bread very much for some tastes j it also keeps it from getting dry quite so soon. At the same time it is not so nutritious as ordinary home-made bread. Boil the required quantity of potatoes in their skins, drain and dry them, then peel and weigh them. Pound them with the rolling-pin until they are quite free from lumps, and mix with them the flour in the proportion of seven pounds of flour to two and a half pounds of potatoes. Add the yeast and knead in the ordinary way, but make up the bread with milk instead of water. When the dough is well risen, bake the bread in a gentle oven. Bake it a little longer than for ordinary bread, and, when it seems done enough, let it stand a little while, with the oven- door open, before taking it out. Unless these precautions are taken, the crust will be hard and brittle, while the inside is still moist and doughy. This recipe is from " Cassell's Dic- tionary of Cookery." Potato Cake.—Take a dozen good-sized potatoes and bake them in the oven till done, then peel and put them into a saucepan with a little salt and grated lemon-peel; set them upon the stove and put in a piece of fresh butter and stir the whole ; add a little cream and sugar, still continuing to stir