EGGS AND OMELETS. 87 flanr. Let this simmer gently for nearly half an hour, add a little made mustard, pepper and salt and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Before sending to table add half a dozen hard- boiled eggs ; the whites should be cut into rings, and should be only put into the sauce long enough to get hot; the yolks, should be kept separate, but must be warmed up in the sauce. Eggs and Onions.—Cut up a large Spanish onion in slices, and fry it in some butter till it is a light brown and tender, but do not let it burn; drain off the butter and put the fried onion on a dish; sprinkle some cayenne pepper and a little salt over the onions, and squeeze the juice of a whole lemon over them. Now poach some eggs and serve them on the top of the onion. Eggs and Potatoes.—Take the remains of some floury potatoes, beat up an egg, and mix the potato flour with the egg. You can also chop up very finely a small quantity of onion and parsley, and season with plenty of pepper and salt. The respective quantities of floury potatoes and beaten egg must be so regulated that you can roll the mixture into balls without their having any tendency to break. Make the balls big enough so that when you press them between the hands you can squeeze the ball into the shape of an ordinary egg, or you can mould them into this shape with a tablespoon. Now flour these imitation eggs in order to dry the surface, and then dip them into well-beaten-up egg and cover them with dried bread-crumbs, and fry them in a little butter or oil, or brown them in the oven, occasionally basting them with a little butter. Eggs and Sauce Robert.—Take some hard-boiled eggs, cut them into quarters, and make them hot in some Sauce Kobert—(see Robert Sauce)—and serve with fried or toasted bread in a dish. Eggs and Sorrel.—Make a thick pur^e of sorrel—{see Sorrel Sauce)—and serve some hard-boiled or poached eggs on the top. Eggs, Broiled.—Out a large slice of crumb of bread off* a big loaf; toast it lightly, put some pieces of butter on it, and