HQ VEGETARIAN COOKERY. it is made into a paste with boiling water, sprinkled with Par- mesan cheese, and baked in the oven. Piroski Sernikis.—This dish is met with in Poland, and is made by mixing up two pounds of cream-cheese, three-quarters of a pound of fine bread-crumbs that have been rubbed through a wire sieve, six eggs well beaten up; add a little cream or milk four ounces of washed grocer's currants, one ounce ot sucrar half a grated nutmeg ; and when the whole is thoroughly mixed add as much flour as is necessary to make the whole into a paste that can be rolled into balls. These balls should not be much bigger than a walnut. Flour them, and then flatten them into little cakes and fry them a nice brown m some butter. • xi Of course, a smaller quantity can be made by using these ingredients in proportion. Nalesnikis (Polish Pancakes).—Take eight eggs and beat them up very thoroughly with about a pint and a half of milk, or still better, cream, two ounces of butter that has been oiled, half a grated nutmeg, and about a dozen lumps of sugar that have been rubbed on the outside of a lemon ; mix m sufticient flour—about three-quarters of a pound will be required—to make the whole into a very smooth batter. Melt a little butter in a frying-pan, pour it all over the pan, and when it frizzles, pour in some of the batter, and sprinkle over a few currants; when the pancake is fried, shake some powdered sugar over it, roll it up like an ordinary pancake, and serve hot. FRITTERS. Batter for Savoury Fritters.—Put six ounces of flour into a basin, with a pinch of salt, the yolk of one egg, and a quarter of a pint of warm water. Work this round and round with a wooden spoon till it is perfectly smooth and looks like thick cream. About half an hour before the batter is wanted for use wiiip the white of one egg to a stifl" froth and mix it lightly in. Mushroom Fritters.—Make some mushroom forcemeat; ^ let it get quite cold on a dish about a quarter of an inch thick. Cut out some small rounds, about the size of a penny-piece.