SAUCES. 49 Caper Sauce.—Make some butter sauce, and to every half- pint of sauce add a dessertspoonful of chopped French capers. If the sauce is liked sharp, add some of the vinegar from the bottle of capers. Carrot Sauce.—Proceed exactly as in carrot soup, using less liquid. Cauliflower Sauce.—Proceed exactly as in cauliflower soup, using less liquid. Celery Sauce.—Proceed exactly as in celery soup, only using less liquid. The thicker this sauce is the better. Cherry Sauce.—Take a quarter of a pound of dried cherries, and put them into a small stew-pan, with a dessertspoonful of black currant jelly, a small stick of cinnamon, with half a dozen cloves, and add rather less than half a pint of water, and let the whole simmer gently for about ten minutes, when you must take out the spices and send the rest to table. N.B.—If wine is not objected to in cooking, it is a very good plan to add claret instead of water. Chestnut Sauce.—Proceed as in making chestnut soup, using as little liquid as possible, so as to make the sauce thick. Cinnamon Sauce.—The simplest way of making cinnamon sauce is to sweeten some butter sauce with some white sugar, and then add a few drops of essence of cinnamon. The sauce can be coloured pink with a little cochineal. A little wine is an improvement. The sauce can also be made by breaking up and boiling a stick of cinnamon in some water, and then using the water to make some butter sauce. Cocoanut Sauce.—Grate the white part of a cocoanut very finely, and boil it till tender in a very small quantity of water; add about an equal quantity of white sugar as there was cocoa- nut ; mix in either the yolk of an egg or a tablespoonful of cream. A little lemon juice is an improvement. Cucumber Sauce.—Take two or three small cucumbers» peel them, slice them, and place them in a dish mth a little salt, which has the effect of extracting the water. Now drain the pieces off and strain them in a cloth, to extract as much moisture as possible. Put them in a frying-pan with a little c