113 SAVOURY DISHES. and candied peel. Cover the dish with pastry and bake the pie m a well-heated oven for half an hour or more, accordino- to the size of the pie. ^ Pumpkin Pie.—Peel a ripe pumpkin and chip off the rind or skm, halve it, and take out the seed and fluffy part in the centre, which throw away. Cut the pumpkin into small, thin slices, fill a pie-dish therewith, add to it half a teaspoonful of all-spice and a tablespoonful of sugar, with a small quantity of water. Cover with a nice light paste and bake in the ordinary way. Pumpkin pie is greatly improved by being eaten with Devonshire cream and sugar. An equal quantity of apples with the pumpkin will make a still more delicious pie. Pumpkin Pudding.—Take a large pumpkin, pare it, and remove the seeds. Cut half of it into thin slices, and boil these gently m water until they are quite soft, then rub them through a fine sieve with the back of a wooden spoon. Measure the pulp, and with each pint put four ounces of butter and a large nutmeg, grated. Stir the mixture briskly for a minute or two then add the third of a pint of hot milk and four well-beaten eggs. Pour the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven for about an hour. Sugar may be added to taste. Potato Cheesecake.—{See Cheesecakes.) Cheese with Fried Bread.—Take some stale bread, and cue it into strips about three inches long and one wide and one inch thick. Fry the bread in some butter or oil till it is a nice bright golden colour. Spread a layer of made mustard over the strips of fried bread, and then cover them with grated Parmesan cheese, pile them up on a dish, and place them in the oven. As soon as the cheese begins to melt serve them very hot. Cheese, Savoury.—Take equal quantities of grated Par- mesan cheese, butter, and flour ; add a little salt and cayenne pepper, make these into a paste with some water, roll out the [)asbe thin till it is about a quarter of an inch thick; cut it into strips and bake them in the oven till they are a nice brown, and serve hot. Cheese Souffle.—(/S'ee Omelets.) E