244 UNSTRIPED MUSCLE. is obliquely truncated at its extremity, at an angle determined by the inclination of its axis, instances of which may be seen in the limbs of Crustacea, and elsewhere. 9. Development.—The researches of Valentin and Schwann have shown that a muscle consists in the earliest stage of a mass of nucleated cells, which first arrange themselves in a linear series, with more or less regularity, and then unite to constitute the elementary fibres. As this process of agglutination of the cells is going forward, a deposit of contractile material gradually takes place within them, commencing on the inner surface and advancing towards the centre, till the whole is solidified. The deposition occurs in granules, which, as they come into view, are seen to be disposed in the utmost order, according to the two directions already so often mentioned. These granules are the sarcous elements, and being of the same size as in the perfect muscle, the transverse stripes resulting from their apposition are of the same width as in the adult; but as they are very few in number, the fibres which they compose are of corresponding tenuity. From the very first period of their formation these granules are parts of a mass and not independent of one another, for as soon as solid matter is deposited in the cells, faint indications of a regular arrangement in granules are usually to be met with. It is common for the longitudinal lines to become well-defined before the transverse ones. When both are strongly marked, as is always the case at birth, the nuclei of the cells, which were before visible, disappear, being shrouded from view by the dark shadows caused by the multitudinous refractions of the light transmitted through the mass of granules; but, as before stated, they can still be shown to exist by immersion in a weak acid, which, while it swells the fibrinous material of the granules and obliterates their intervening lines, has no action upon the nuclei. B. Of the Unstriped Elementary Fibres. This variety possesses far less interest than the other in consequence of its apparent simplicity of structure. The fibres consist of flattened bands, generally of a pale colour, bulged at frequent intervals by elongated corpuscles similar to those of striped muscle, and capable of being displayed by the same process. (See fig. 298.) The texture of these fibres seems to be homogeneous. By transmitted light they have usually a soft, very finely mottled aspect, and are without a darkly-shaded border Some- times the mottling is so decided as to appear granular, and occasionally these granules are arranged in a linear series for some distance. This condition is probably an approximation towards the structure of the striped fibre, for I have observed the granules to be about the size of the sarcous elements already described. It is generally to be seen more or less distinctly in the gizzard of Birds, and I have now and then met with it in the fresh muscle of the stomach, intestinal canal, urinary bladder, and uterus of Mammalia. The ordinary diameter of the unstriped fibre is from ygWth t0 3Footn