191 BASEMENT MUCOUS MEMBRANE. I am inclined to think that it does not exist in this gland, except in the excretory part of the bile ducts. In the air-cells of the lungs the basement membrane assumes a most interesting and remarkable development, for it constitutes almost the entire thickness of their walls, the epithelium being of extreme delicacy. It appears to be here strengthened by interlacing arches of elastic fibrous tissue, but to be itself transparent and homogeneous, as elsewhere. It is on its parenchymal surface that the close vascular web is spread out. But this membrane may be also detected in every part of the alimentary tube, which is more characteristically mucous, in that, viz., intervening between the cardia and the lower extremity of the canal. Here it deserves an attentive study on account of the apparent complexity of its foldings, and because its existence here offers the most unequivocal proof which we possess, of the anatomical identity of the true glands with the membranes usually called mucous. As it is more delicate in this part than any other, and difficult of detection by reason of the enormous preponderance of At a a, the basement membrane is seen between b b b, bulging epithelial particles. P FIG. 276. —LOWER EXTREMITY OF A STOMACH TUBULE FROM THE DOG (CANIS FAMILIARTS), MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. its epithelial investment, I shall describe the manner in which it may be best observed. The specimen should be as fresh and healthy as possible, or should have been immersed in alcohol immediately on its removal from the body; a fragment of the tubes of Lieberkiihn should then be scraped off, pulled to pieces, and examined in a fluid medium under a high power. The margins and rounded extremities of the tubes will then be seen to be sharply defined, as in the cases already mentioned, and to be formed by a structure independent of the epithelium, which latter forms -^ths of their thickness. This structure is the basement membrane. When masses of epithelium, escaped from the tubes and bearing their form, are met with floating around, their outline is uniformly irregular, and, as it were, woolly. Sometimes, as in the kidney (fig. 273), the basement membrane is seen up to a certain point only, beyond which it has been detached; and in less recent specimens a tube of basement membrane is sometimes seen, containing a mass of broken-down epithelium. If the part selected for examination be the stomach, the same precautions should be observed, for here this membrane is, if possible, more delicate than below the 2 i>