ULTIMATE STRUCTURE OF THE MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 187 been made which throw a new and most important light on the whole subject, and when viewed in connection with one another, must be considered to have greatly simplified our knowledge respecting it. These discoveries, due chiefly to Boehm, Boyd, and Henle, result from examinations of recent specimens with the microscope, and those of the last observer, which are especially valuable, were made with high powers employed upon a single tissue (the epithelium) in different forms and situations. It is this kind of research that promises the most enlarged and trustworthy results to any one who will follow it in a spirit of due caution against hasty generalisation, and which has already done so much in the present day towards a complete remodelling of our ideas, both concerning the elements of organisation and their union to form compound tissues. Before proceeding to a description of the anatomical elements of the mucous system, it is necessary to premise that a great portion of the membranes, usually termed mucous, are glands of a complicated structure, arranged in a membranous form, consisting of a closely packed mass of secreting tubules, which open on the general surface, and are essentially involutions of it. The bloodvessels and other appended tissues occupy the intervals of these tubules, and so approach the surface; but, never- theless, they always remain on the deep or parenchymal aspect of the mucous tissue. So, the same membranes present projections, which are nothing more than hollow evolutions of the same mucous tissue, into which the appended tissues are extended. The same remarks apply strictly to many regions of the skin. Hence it becomes necessary to guard against confounding such compound membranes with the simple mucous tissues, of which these and all other portions of the mucous system consist. Of the Ultimate Structure of the Mucous System. It has already been stated that the mucous tissue is essentially an uninterrupted membrane in which the other tissues of the animal are contained. A very cursory attempt will serve to show how much more easily it admits of being separated and examined in certain situations rather than in others. This variety depends chiefly on the difference of its arrangement and connections in different regions. In the testis and kidney, the capillary vascular rete, spread over its parenchymal surface, has no intimate attachment to it, and the appended areolar tissue is in very small quantity. In the testis, especially, this latter may be said to be almost wanting as an investment to the individual tubules, being, as it were, disposed as a collective covering to the entire organ, sending partial septa into its interior, and bearing the name of Tunica Albuginea. In the kidney, a more intricate vascular rete in a great measure supplies