284 THE PACINIAN BODIES central cavity exhibits the offsets above-mentioned the pale nerve-fibre is also invariably branched, its subordinate branch always traversing the axis of the subordinate cavity, and being regularly fixed at its extremity. It is interesting to observe how accurately the nerve-fibre preserves its place in the axis of the central cavity, however abruptly that may be bent or branched, a fact which might be supposed to indicate some degree of viscidity in the clear substance through which it runs. Eespecting the function or use of the Pacinian corpuscles no satisfactory account has yet been given, nor even a plausible explanation offered. Their presence in so great abundance on the nerves of the palm and sole, and their absence from motor nerves, suggests the obvious enquiry, whether they may not be connected in some way with the sense of touch, or at least with the function of sensation, to which the fact of their concentration in such numbers in the splanchnic nerves of some animals as obviously answers in the negative. Undoubtedly, however, we may anticipate much from a more extended research into their connections with the several parts of the nervous system in man and animals, than the very recent date of their discovery has yet allowed. The speculation that they may be concerned in the phenomena of what is called animal magnetism is not to be passed over with contempt, if only because it has been hazarded by their distinguished discoverer, Pacini, who, in common with many other unprejudiced and not incapable observers, is inclined to believe in the reality of some of the less marvellous effects which popularly pass under that title, such, in particular, as the mesmeric somnolence and catalepsy. Yet so vague an hypothesis, perhaps, barely deserves to be placed in juxtaposition with the descriptive anatomy of the corpuscles. It will be more to the purpose to institute a brief comparison between these bodies and the electrical organs of the Torpedo, a description of which will be found under the head of "Animal Electricity." Since that article was written, however, further researches, and especially those of Savi,* have added some points of importance which it will first be necessary to notice. The prisms of the electrical organ, as Hunter described, are divided by very numerous horizontal diaphragms into spaces containing a thin fluid, and on these diaphragms the nerves and vessels of the organ are ultimately distributed in great abundance. Each of these superposed diaphragms consists of a layer, possibly double, in and not upon which the nerves ramify. The nerves of the electrical organ have never any ganglia formed upon them. Their tubules always have the double contour which marks the presence of the white substance of Schwann. The ramifications penetrate between the prisms, and each diaphragm receives tubular fibres at several points of its circumference, though Savi is doubtful whether these are derived from two or more tubules of the branch supplying them. In the diaphragm, however, they are uniformly spread * Savi, ' Etudes Anatomiques sur le systeme nerveux et sur 1'organe elecfariqne de la Torpille.' Vide Matteucci, ' Traite des phenomenes electro-physiologiques.' Paris, 1844.