125 VERMICULAR ACTION. of the parts above is being gradually mastered by the accumulation of the faeces or urine. But, when these excretions at length excite active contraction in the walls of the cavity containing them, this overcomes the passive contraction of the sphincters, and the evacuation occurs. The sphincters have striped fibres and voluntary nerves, by means of which we can for a time add active to passive contraction, and thus retard the expulsion; but, as the accumulation proceeds, this power is diminished or lost, and the sphincters yield. The levator and sphincter ani frequently aid the accumulation of the fasces by temporary active contractions, by which the fasces tending to dilate the sphincter are pushed backwards for a while. The rectum is thus preserved empty until the period immediately preceding defalcation. In paralysis of the lower part of the body from disease or injury of the spine, the voluntary power of the sphincters is lost, and the fasces and urine pass involuntarily. But this is no proof, as is commonly imagined, that the ordinary contraction of the sphincter is an active one, performed in obedience to a continuous nervous stimulus. The difference is, that it can now undergo no active contraction through the nerves, to counteract temporarily, and in obedience to the will, the active contractions of the parts above, which are not under the influence of volition, and are not paralysed. Hence, whenever the faeces are driven against it, it gives way, against the patient's will, and (if the sensitive nerves are also paralysed) without his knowledge. Contractions are called peristaltic or vermicular, which advance through a muscle in a slow and progressive manner. When analysed closely, we shall find that they are only a variety of the active contraction already described. If a number of striped fibres are arranged in a long series, and are contracted in succession (as in caterpillars), the resulting movement is vermicular; but in the higher animals it is only in the hollow unstriped muscles that this variety of contraction occurs; and the best example of it is in the alimentary canal. On laying bare the intestines of an animal just killed, we observe successive waves of contraction advancing down the tube, and urging its contents along. They appear to be rendered more active by the contact of the cold air; but may be re-excited, when they have almost subsided, by irritation of the sympathetic ganglia, from which the muscles are supplied with nerves. If a single point of the intestine be touched, a contraction presently occurs there, which moves onwards to a considerable distance, and is often succeeded by others spontaneously arising. It is impossible not to remark the close similitude between these contractions and those visible by the microscope in the striped elementary fibre. We have here on a large scale the wave-like character there exhibited. A contracting voluntas muscle exposed to view exhibits a tremulous motion, and it may be a question how far this may depend on numerous contractions strictly vermicular, affecting successive sets of fibres, but prevented, by their irregularity and want of coincidence through the whole muscle, from appearing so to the eye. When the pectoral muscle is struck, a knot-like contraction often moves off in a slow manner in the direction of the fibres. s 2