63 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. satisfactory proof afforded by a clear view of the whole of the textures magnified 300 diameters. As the Malpighian bodies are placed in every possible direction, it often happens that a thin section, parallel to the neck of the tube, cannot at once be obtained ; but with perseverance this may always be done. The capsule is then seen to pass off into the basement membrane of the tube, as the body of a Florence flask into its neck. The basement membrane of the tube is lined by a nucleated epithelium of a finely-granular opaque aspect, while the neck of the tube and its orifice become abruptly covered with a layer of cells much more transparent, and clothed with vibratile cilia. The epithelium is continued in many cases over the whole inner surface of the capsule ; in other instances I have found it impossible to detect the slightest appearance of it over more than a third of the capsule. When fairly within the capsule, the cilia cease, and the epithelium beyond is of excessive delicacy and translucence. Its particles are seldom nucleated, and appear liable to swell by the addition of the water added to the specimen. They frequently fill up the space between the capsule and tuft, and touching the latter, may seem to be united to it. The lines of their mutual contact may then wear the aspect of a highly delicate areolar tissue, connecting the capsule with the tuft. The cavity existing in the natural state between the epithelium and the tuft is filled by fluid, in which the vessels are bathed, and which is continually being impelled along the tube by the lashing movement of the cilia. In the Frog, where alone I have as yet been able to see these wonderful organs in motion, they were longer than those from other parts of that animal, and extremely active. The tubes on issuing from the Malpighian bodies, invariably become greatly contorted. I have on one occasion seen two of them unite, and from their dichotomous mode of division, when traced up from the pelvis, there can be little doubt that this is constantly their disposition. I have never, in all my examinations, met with any appearance of an inosculation between different tubules. The tortuous tubes unite again and again in twos, and finally, under the name of pyramids of Fereein, become straight, and converge towards the pelvis, forming the medullary cones or pyramids of Malpigiii. The Malpighian bodies are imbedded in a kind of nidus formed among these convolutions, and are touched on all sides by the surrounding tubes. As the emergence of the tube from the Malpighian body can be seen only at one point, it is not wonderful that it should have been overlooked, and that the demonstration should have seemed clear, that the Malpighian bodies merely lie among the tubes, and have no connection with them. The blood, leaving the Malpighian tufts, is conveyed by their efferent vessels to the great renal reservoir, the capillary plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. This, in its general arrangement, resembles that investing the tubes of the testis. The vessels lie in the interstices of the tubes, and everywhere anastomose freely, so that throughout the whole organ they constitute one continuous network, lying on the outside of the tubes, in contact with the basement membrane. This