THE SWEAT GLANDS. l^3 limes this tube is branched, but its diameter is usually very uniform from end to end. When very long, the open end forming the duct is a little wider than the rest. The wall is comparatively thick, so that the calibre is not more than a third of the whole diameter. It consists, like the corresponding part of most other glands, of two layers : an outer or basement membrane, with which the vessels are in contact ; and an epithelium, lining the interior. The basement membrane is extremely thin, and is continuous with the outer surface of the papilke. The epithelium is much thicker, and is an involution of the epidermis that rests on the papilke and dips in between them. Hence the tube, traced outwards from the gland, loses the basement membrane f 1'f |:- A^ffcS*|^^£ a,5 Vertical section of the cuticle from the heel, detached "by maceration as in fig. 79. The epithelium of the sweat duct, continuous with the cuticle, has been drawn out of the tube of base- ment membrane, as far as the gland, where it begins to be contorted. The cavity of the duct is seen dilating as it enters the cuticle, and then stretching up to the surface through the epi- dermic laminae. The deep surface of the duct is continuous with the surface of the cavities in which the papillae are lodged. Magnified 35 diameters, b, Dact at its entrance into the cuticle. More highly magnified. FIG. 91. at the surface of the papilla? ; and the remainder of its course is pursued upwards through the successive lamina? of cuticular scales. The preparation exhibited in fig. 91 shows the continuity of the epithelium lining the excreting part of the duct with the cuticle, and also discloses its hardness and cuticular character, quite different from that of the secreting epithelium within the gland, which is soft and easily decomposed. We have remarked that the duct, in traversing the layers of the cuticle, is lined by epidermic particles having a different arrangement from those of the cuticle itself; being flattened in the vertical instead of the horizontal direction, and especially distinct in the deeper and softer stratum of the