PAPILLAE OF THE TONGUE 159 studding most of the surface, though most largely developed in the central part, d. These three varieties will require a separate description; they are very distinct from one another if well-marked specimens are selected; but, as might be expected, there are many intermediate forms by which they seem to run imperceptibly into one another. We may premise, however, with regard to them all, that although they appear to have been hitherto regarded as simple papillas, analogous to, though larger than, those of the skin, yet we have found them to be compound organs, clothed with secondary, simple, and much more minute papillae, concealed under the epithelial investment, and scarcely or not at all visible until this covering is removed. In their compound nature they present much resemblance to the intestinal villi of the Ehinoceros and other large animals. We have further ascertained the existence of similar minute papilla?, interspersed very unequally among the compound forms, Simple papillee near the base of the tongue:— A, a, Concealed under the epithelium; b, Epi- thelium detached. Magnified 10 diameters. b, a, Arterial twig supplying their capillary loops ; v, Vein : The vessels are all contained within the line b, b, of basement membrane; c, c, Deeper epithelial particles resting on thebasementmembrane; d, Scaly epithelium on the surface; the granular interior of the papilla is represented at e. C, Papillas in which the basement membrane is not visible; and the deep layer of epithe- lium seems to rest on the capillary loop. Magnified 200 diameters. fig. 95. as well as occupying much of the surface behind the circumvallate variety, where the compound forms do not exist. These minute papilla? seem to have hitherto escaped detection, in consequence of their being completely buried and concealed under the common sheet of epithelium. If we examine the mucous membrane immediately in front of the epiglottis, we find it perfectly smooth, almost transparent, and supplied by capillary vessels spread uniformly under the surface, and connected with simple plane sub-mucous plexuses of arteries and veins: here the papillary tissue is undeveloped. Further forwards, however, where the membrane still seems smooth, the plexus of arteries beneath it sends upwards, at pretty regular intervals, a series of twigs, each of which terminates in one or two capillary loops, sometimes dilated in the bend, from which a small vein returns the blood to the sub-mucous venous plexus. These loops correspond to those of the simple papillas of the skin, p. 140; they supply