8 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND Of the Transverse Strice. A decisive characteristic of voluntary muscle consists in the existence and close arrangement of alternate light and dark lines, discoverable only by the microscope, and of exquisite delicacy and finish, taking a direction across the fasciculi. These lines are so uniformly present, both in recent muscle and in that which has been preserved, either by drying, or in alcohol, solution of alum, corrosive sublimate, or in various other ways, that it is most important to understand correctly their real nature. Their existence was doubtless known to Hooke, and Leeuwenhoek has given more than one very accurate description of them, as well as made constant reference to them in his letters. He believed, during the earlier years of his inquiry, that they were circular bands or girths, surrounding a bundle of fibrillas; but at a later period he regarded them as of a spiral shape, and endeavoured to show, by a fancied analogy with an elastic coil of wire, that they were in some manner the originators of motion. Phochaska seems to have considered them to arise from a series of minute flexuosities of the fibrillse, caused by impressions made upon these by the contact of the filamentous and capillary tissues, which he fancied to penetrate into the interior of the fasciculi and invest each fibrilla. But in endeavouring to sustain an erroneous hypothesis of muscular action, he deceived himself into the opinion that these so-called flexuosities were the same, in kind, with secondary inflexions of the whole fasciculus, and with those zigzag bendings to which Prevost and Dumas have in later years called the attention of physiologists, and thus their real structure eluded him.* Pont ana was the first to give what has seemed to me to be the correct explanation of their nature, where he says, " Les fils charnus primitifs (prim, nbrillse) sont des cylindres solides, egaux entr'eux, et marques visiblement a distances egales de petits signes, comme d'autant de petits diaphragms ou rides. Je n'ai pu appercevoir dans ces fils une marche vraiment ondee et il m'a paru que les petites taches curvilignes du faisceau primitif etaient formees par les petits signes ou diaphragms des fils charnus primitifs."t It is difficult to conceive how the strise should have escaped the observation of Sir E. Home and Mr. Bauer when investigating the structure of muscle, but such seems to be the fact. In the last ten or fifteen years, during which so much more attention has been given to microscopical researches, various observers have noticed * "Quod causam istarum rugarum quaa turn in fasciculis fibrarurn muspularium (Lacerti), turn in fibris muscularibus ipsie (prim, fascic), et fibs carneis (prim, fibrillar) observantur conceinit, id jam in principio bujus capitis attigi, ubi dixi. a filis cellulosis, arteriis, venis, et nervis, fasciculos fibrarum muscular.ium decussari, et alternatim saape ita stringi, ut in serpentinos flexus agantur; idem fit in fibris muscularibus et filis carneis, quae simili prorsus modo a filis cellulosis, vasculosis, et uerveis percuiTuntur et decussantur."—Proch^ska, ' Pe Came Musculari,' Viennaa, 1778, Cap. iv., Sect. i. "j" ' Traite stir le Venin de la Vipere,' p. -129.