133 VESICULAR NERVOUS MATTER. devoid of that whiteness which characterises the tubular fibre; and it would seem that the grey colour of certain nerves depends chiefly upon the presence of a large proportion of the gelatinous fibres. Hence they are sometimes called grey fibres. The mode of connexion of the gelatinous fibres with the elements of the nervous centres is, as yet, quite unknown. They are found in considerable numbers in what are called the roots of the sympathetic, or the communications of that nerve with the spinal nerves : it has been supposed by Valentin that they are continuous with certain elements of the vesicular nervous matter. These fibres are smaller, in general, than the tubular fibres ; their diameter ranges between the ^th and the Toi)otn °^ an "lcn- They resemble very much the fibres of unstriped muscle. Ganglion globules, with their processes, nuclei, and nucleoli: — a, a, From the deeper part of the grey matter of the con- volutions of the cerebellum. The larger processes are directed towards the surface of the organ, b, Another from the cere- bellum, c, d, Others from the post, horn of grey matter of the dorsal region of the cord. These contain pigment, which sur- rounds the nucleus in c. In all these speci- mens the processes are more or less broken. Magnified 200 diameters. fig. 55. Of the Vesicular Nervous Matter. This is distinguished by its dark reddish grey colour, and soft consistence: it is found in the nervous centres, but never in nerves, properly so-called, and it is always supplied by a considerable plexus of blood-vessels. The essential elements of the grey nervous matter are vesicles or cells, containing nuclei and nucleoli. They have been also called nerve or ganglion globules. The wall of each vesicle consists of an exceedingly delicate membrane, containing a soft but tenacious finely granular mass. The nucleus of the cell is generally eccentric, much smaller than the containing vesicle, and adherent to some part of its interior. Its structure is apparently the same as that of the outer vesicle. The nucleolus is a minute, remarkably clear, and brilliant body, also vesicular, inclosed within the nucleus. It forms a most characteristic and often conspicuous part of the nerve-vesicle. t 2