MR. BOWMAN" OiST THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 22 confirms this, for the striae are not seen except where the sheath holds together the primitive filaments, and these are not represented as beaded, where they project as a brush from the extremity."" It will be immediately perceived that the true structure about to be described has no analogy whatever with the cellular membrane of muscle, and that it is not in any way concerned in the production of the transverse striae ; but that, on the contrary, it seems to be a texture sui generis, fulfilling a dis- tinct function, peculiar to muscle. It seems advisable, therefore, to call it by a distinct name, and I have been in the habit of styling it Sarcolemma,i a term descrip- tive of its nature. As, however, in what follows, no allusion whatever is intended to be made to the cellular sheath of muscle, the word sheath, to avoid repetition, will be employed as synonymous with sarcolemma.| This structure can usually be seen best in specimens prepared when recent, but I have preparations which show it perfectly preserved in parts long steeped in spirit. From its extreme tenuity, it would hardly be likely to attract any attention, were it not that, without extraordinary care, it is apt to be detached in different ways from the bundle invested by it, and so to become an isolated object. But when its existence is known, it may often be discovered in unbroken fasciculi, as observed by Mulleh, under the form of a straight linear margin, uninterrupted, and independent of the striae ; which, however, will very probably seem at first to pass completely across, though they terminate, in fact, within this edge. Some accurate observers have doubted the prominence of the beads of the fibrillae, because they have been unable * [Since this paper was read, my attention has been directed to a passage in the fourth edition of ' Dr. Jones Quain's Elements of Anatomy,' 1837 (p. 104-5), where the author speaks of a " Myolema" as having been observed by himself. The following short extracts comprise all that is said by him concerning it: " The fibre (primitive fasciculus) is not homogeneous or gelatinous, but consists of a tube, the myolema, filled with minute globules, as represented in fig. 26." And a little before, speaking of the "minute extremely close transverse bars " (transverse stria?), " these appear to be in the myolema, and to be owing to its being thrown into plica?, as they disappear if the fibre is stretched." And again, in p. 81, where a "speculation as to the mechanism of muscular contraction" is offered, "we can hardly suppose it (the nervous influence) to act on the myolema, which is but a delicate or slightly modified cellular tissue." Mr. W. J. E. Wilson,1 who prepared the specimens examined by Dr. Quain, also describes the sheath of the primitive fasciculi as consisting of cellular membrane.] f This term (from ffap£, caro, and Xepfia, cortex) seems preferable to that of myolema, derived from fids, the whole organ, musculus. % [While these pages are going through the press, I learn that Professor Schwann, in his recent work (' Mikroskopische Untersuchungen fiber die Uebereinstimmung in der Struktur u. dem Wachsthum der Thiere u. Pflanzen,' p. 165), speaking of the development of voluntary muscle, describes, with considerable accm*acy, the membrane here spoken of; and to him its discovery is really due, which I am glad to have an opportunity of acknowledging. He has seen it forming a transparent border to the fasciculi, as well as connecting detached fragments of them, but in Insects and Fish only (see his Plate IV., figs. 4, 5), and he ingeniously supposes it to be a persistent portion of the membrane of the original cells of development, united to form a single tube.] 1 ' The Anatomist's Vade Mecum,' published in the present year.