148 THE HATR FOLLICLE. bottom of the follicle, and the cells of the deepest stratum there resting on the base- ment membrane are very similar to those which in other parts are transformed into scales of cuticle. A gradual enlargement occurs in these cells as they mount in the soft bulb of the hair, which indeed owes its size to this circumstance. If the hair is to be coloured, the pigment grains are also here developed—for the most part in scattered cells, which may send out radiating processes—at other times, in a diffused manner around the nuclei of the cells generally. It frequently happens that the cells in the axis of the bulb become loaded with pigment at one period, and not at another; so that, as they pass upwards in the shaft, a dark central tract is produced of greater or less length, often only in irregular patches, and the hair appears here and there to be tubular, e. The shaft is much narrower than the bulb, and is produced by the rather abrupt condensation and elongation into hard fibres of the ceils, both of those Bulb of a small black hair, from the scrotum, seen in section:—a, Basement membrane of the follicle, b, Layer of epidermic cells resting upon it, and becoming- more scaly as they approach c, a layer of imbricated cells, forming the outer lamina, or cortex, of the hair. These imbricated cells are seen more flattened and compressed the higher they are traced on the bulb. Within the cortex is the proper substance of the hair, consisting at the base, where it rests on the basement membrane, of small angular cells, scarcely larger than their nuclei. At d, these cells are more bulky, and the bulb consequently thicker; there is also pigment developed in many of them more or less abundantly. Above d, they assume a decidedly fibrous character, and become condensed. e, A mass of cells in the axis of the hair, much loaded with pigment. FIG. 87. which contain pigment and those which do not. These fibres may be demonstrated by simply crushing small fragments of hair, but they become more conspicuous when the tissue is softened by a strong acid. The granules of pigment assume a linear arrange- ment between the fibres, which are firmly united into a solid rod by a material similar, it may be supposed, Lo that which cements the scales of the cuticle. The central cells just mentioned, when filled with pigment, seem less disposed to become fibrous than those around [hence perhaps their aggregation into the "patches" above spoken of.—W.B.] ; and some authors have described it as a medulla, in distinc- tion from the fibrous part of the shaft, which they then term cortex. But the tubular character, however constant in the hair of many animals, is very variable in human hair, both in different situations, and in the same hair at different points of its length, as may be seen very well by means of transverse sections. (See fig. 88, a, b.)* * Transverse sections of extreme thinness may be made by fixing a lock of hair between two pieces of card or wood in a vice, and then shaving it with a razor. In many animals, as the horse and dog, the