THE MALPIGHIAN" BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. 79 less completely fulfil this purpose; but the first is chiefly designed as a protection, the second partly so, and the third is the only one entirely devoted to what is properly called secretion. Into the examination of this general question, it is impossible that I should now enter, but I shall state some considerations connected with it, that seem to have a bearing on the present subject. This theory, in its widest sense, supposes the epithelium of secreting surfaces either to pass through constant stages of renovation and decay, or else to remain, during a longer period, as a permanent organic form, assimilating and rejecting, in the mode just described. In many cases the epithelial particles appear to be cast off entire when their growth is complete, and thus to form the secretion; in other instances, they seem to lose their substance by a more gradual process, and to waste or dissolve away on the surface of the membrane, as fresh particles are deposited below; in other examples still, there is reason for believing that they are long a persistent structure. It supposes that the elements of all natural secretions have at one time been a part of an organized form, the epithelial particle; but it leaves it uncertain, whether the secretion, in a complete state, always exists in such particles when alive. It does not determine whether the chemical changes which occur in such particles, issue in the completion of the secreted product, until the period arrives for its being shed from the body. Hence it is beyond the reach of objections founded on the chemical examination of glandular organs en masse. Applying this theory to the Kidney, it may be considered highly probable that the epithelium of the uriniferous tubes is continually giving up its effete particles, and undergoing a gradual decay. This view harmonizes in a striking manner with what has been before advanced as to the use of the Malpighian bodies. If the peculiar urinous principles were poured out at once, through the walls of the tubes by the capillaries surrounding them, they must be in a dissolved state from the first, and could need no further aqueous current to carry them off; but if they are deposited in a more or less solid form, as a part of an organized tissue, they will require (being so sparingly soluble) an additional and extraneous source of water, by which, when their formation is complete, they may be taken up and conveyed from the gland. The correspondence before noticed (p. 75) between the size of the Malpighian bodies and the length of the tubes coming from them, is a strong argument in favour of this view. I stated that the large quantity of water in the urine seemed chiefly to serve the purpose of a menstruum. But though this quantity is always large, compared with that in other secretions, it is liable to great variation, according to the state of fulness of the vascular system, and other circumstances. Hence the kidneys appear to share in the office of regulating the amount of water in the body. How admirably the structure of the Malpighian bodies fits them for thus acting as a self-adjusting valve or sluice to the circulation, I need not explain. It may possibly be considered by some, that in the preceding observations on the