104 THE UNSTRIPED FIBRES. than in the foetus, while their number relatively to the bulk of the fibre, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same. Muscles grow by an increase, not of the number, but of the bulk of their elemen- tary fibres : there is reason to believe that the number of fibres remains through life as it was in the foetus, and that the spare or muscular build of the individual is determined by the mould in which his body was originally cast. Of the Unstriped Fibres.. This variety possesses less interest than the other, in consequence of the apparent simplicity of its structure. The fibres consist of flattened bands (fig. 298, p. 245 infra), generally of a pale colour, bulged at frequent intervals by elongated corpuscles, similar to those of striped muscle and capable of being displayed by the same process.* The tex- ture of these fibres seems to be homogeneous. By transmitted light, they have usually a soft very finely mottled aspect, and without a darkly-shaded border. Sometimes the mottling is so decided as to appear granular, and occasionally these granules are arranged in a linear series for some distance. This condition is probably an approach towards the structure of the striped fibre, for these granules are about the size of the sarcous elements already described. It is generally to be seen more or less distinctly in the gizzards of birds; and may be now and then met with in the fresh muscle of the stomach, intestinal canal, urinary bladder, and uterus of mammalia. The ordinary diameter of the unstriped fibre is from -goVotii to 201oo^,n °^ an mch- It might be expected, from this account of the appearance of these fibres, that their discrimination from other tissues would be often difficult. The peculiar texture, however, the size, the soft margin, and, above all, the presence of numerous elongated oval corpuscles with two or three granules near their centre, are characters which, when united, will seldom be mistaken. As a number of fibres commonly take a parallel course together, the bulgings occasioned by the corpuscles give rise to partial longitudinal shadows, extending for some way beyond the corpuscles in the intervals of the fibres. As these irregular longitudinal shadows occur pretty uniformly throughout a bundle of fibres, and as some of them are necessarily out of focus, while others are in focus, the whole mass commonly presents a confused reticulated appearance, which has given rise to an almost universal notion that the fibres interlace one with another. This idea, however, is, in most cases, erroneous. It is doubtful whether these fibres are invested by a sarcolemma: none has hitherto been detected in an unequivocal manner. It is also still a matter of speculation how they terminate, or whether they in all instances have a termination. In the case of the transverse * In some specimens, however, of both varieties of fibre, they may be discerned without the addition of an acid.