174 CONDITIONS OF SMELL. resulting from simultaneous impressions on different parts of this organ of sense and seem to show that it would be most correct to speak of the first pair of nerves as a portion of the nervous centre put forward beyond the cranium, in order that it may there receive, as at first hand, the impressions of which the mind is to become cognizant. No true tubular fibres belong to the olfactory nervous apparatus, except those commissural ones passing between the bulb and certain portions of the cerebrum. Conditions of Smell. In addition to the essential conditions of integrity of the nervous apparatus, and the presence of the requisite stimulus, a healthy condition of the epithelial investment of the papillse seems necessary for perfect smell. If the mucous surface is dry, or if it is in the raw irritable state, attended with watery discharge, induced by cold, smell is impaired or lost. This is explained by considering the manner in which the nerves are ordinarily brought under the influence of the stimulus. As in taste, a solution of the stimulus in the surface of the membrane is requisite in order that the odorous substance may actually reach the nerve. Insoluble substances cannot be smelt. Hence, whether the membrane be too dry, or an inordinate excretion of fluid be going on from its surface, the necessary penetration of the stimulus to the nerves is alike interfered with. In the latter case, the effect may partly depend also on a change produced by the inflammatory action, in the excitability of the nerves themselves. Since odorous substances must undergo solution before they can affect the olfactory nerves, why, it may be asked, cannot such substances, if dissolved in water and injected into the nose, be recognized by their smell? In answer to this it may be stated, that there is no reason to deny the possibility of their being so recognized, as far as the excitability of the nerves is concerned. But the ciliated epithelium of the nose, and the nerves of common sensation supplying the lining membrane, instantly resent the contact of all other fluids than the film which moistens the surface, and which is naturally furnished by it in due proportion to the exigencies of the part; and when the membrane is thus irritated, and its texture altered by the water, it need not excite surprise that its special sensibility should be altered or disguised. The organ of smell in fishes resembles that of air-breathing animals in every essential point of structure, and differs mainly in the habitual contact of its sentient surface with the surrounding water. It may therefore be concluded, that sensations of smell are excited in it by substances brought to it through the water, corresponding in kind with those brought in the other case through the air, but eventually dissolved in the moisture of the membrane. The nature of the sensation will depend on the special sensibility of the nerve, which in both cases can be excited