41 MOVEMENTS OP VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 6. Such contraction may engage a few such particles only, or the whole fasciculus may oscillate from end to end, without occurring at any special situations or intervals, and may be independent of immediate nervous co-operation. 7. Eugos and zigzag inflexions are a mere consequence of the approximation of the extremities of a fasciculus, otherwise than by its own contraction, and are necessarily obliterated by either its own contraction, or its elongation by other forces. 8. It is highly probable that in all contractions of voluntary muscle in the living body, the same mechanism is employed as in the dying ; and that in the living body these contractions engage only parts of fasciculi at a time, and oscillate along them, as well as occur alternately in different sets of fasciculi. 9. These results are true as regards the vertebrate and articulate classes of the animal kingdom. I remain, yours very truly, King's College, London, William Bowman. June 18, 1840. Postscript. Having in the foregoing paper argued that the contractions of living muscle must be the same in kind with those everywhere noticed by me in animals during the last moments of life, I have now to add the confirmation of direct observation with regard to this point. In the striated fasciculi of the legs of the Monoculus, and of the Argulus, voluntary contractions may be occasionally seen to occur; a portion only of the fasciculus contracts, and may be known by its becoming broader and denser, and its transverse striae closer to one another and narrower than before. The effect of this is a shortening of the whole fasciculus and movement of the limb in correspondence. With respect also to the phenomena of contraction in muscle when removed from the body, I may observe that an opportunity of inspecting them in the human subject having lately presented itself, I have found them to be in every way identical with what has been previously observed in animals as herein detailed, and especially that when the fasciculi were immersed in water, bullte were developed upon them by the elevation of the sarcolemma, and their transverse striae were very much approximated to each other. (See fig. 79.) July 23, 1840.