43 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Fig. 13. Fragment of a fibrilla from the upper part of the oesophagus of the same. Fig. 14. Primitive component segments of a primitive fasciculus, arranged so as to form longitudinal and transverse striae, very highly magnified to show the long diameter of the segments oblique to these strife, and turned in different directions, so that the transverse striae are broken. From the leg of a Chameleon in spirit. Fig. 15. Four primitive component segments of a fasciculus, united longitudinally to form a fragment of a fibrilla. Yery highly magnified, and in two states of focus, to show their form and density by the varying refraction in the two states. By the lateral adaptation of a series of fibrillae such as this, the transverse striae would be doubled in one state of focus. From the psoas muscle of the Hare. Fig. 16. Several primitive fasciculi from the leg of a Eabbit at birth, macerated several months in weak spirit. On the convexity of the curve many segments of the fibrillae are deficient, and the lateral adhesion of the remaining ones is thus made evident. Fig. 17. Three fragments of a macerated heart (Ox), showing everywhere marked fibrillse, and their union to form striae. Fig. 18. Two fibrillae from a Crab, showing the segments aggregated into sets of three, and thus producing broader and less numerous striae. Fig. 19. Primitive fasciculus from the neck of the Duck in two states of focus. At a the striae are seven in y-^o^1 °f an inch, and at b, twenty-one to twenty-five in the same space. The striae are oblique, by the discs being thrown, as it were, partially on their sides. Fig. 20. Unusual appearance of the striae in a fasciculus of the Staghorn Beetle observed immediately after death. Fig. 21. Portion of a primitive fasciculus from a Pig, showing a cleavage according to the transverse striae. Fig. 22. Human primitive fasciculi, in which the transverse striae are separated. The irregularities are due to the pressure of a lamina of mica. PLATE XVII. Figs. 23, 24, 25, 26. Portions of primitive fasciculi from the leg of a Lizard that had been kept in spirit, in which all appearance of longitudinal striae is absent, and the cleavage is into discs. Fig. 27. Two recent primitive fasciculi from a Sprat, showing the same points. One disc is seen detached. Fig. 28. Primitive fasciculus from an atrophied gastrocnemius muscle (human) showing the angularity of the striae. g 2