263 CHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. The intimate connection between the nerves and muscles, both in rest and action, and the exquisite organization displayed in the structure of those muscles which are most quick and energetic in their movements, have powerfully contributed to excite the hope that a clue to the discovery of the physical mechanism of contraction would one day be found. It may be thought, therefore, a subject of disappointment that when at length a close insight into its visible characters has been obtained, and the minutest particles which the best instruments can discern have been brought under observation during their state of activity, the only change that can be appreciated in them is that which was long ago known by accurate experiment to occur in the aggregate mass, viz., that they become shorter and thicker. All muscle, after systemic death or after removal from the body, undergoes a contraction, termed the rigor mortis, which has received much attention in all that relates to the mode of its approach, its course and duration, and the practical bearings it presents. This phenomenon may be varied by the application of stimuli, and is eminently suited for the display of the minute changes occurring in muscle during its active state. FIG. 301.—FRAGMENT OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE (FROM THE EEI,) PARTIALLY CONTRACTED IN WATER. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. The muscle with striped fibres is peculiarly adapted for the display of these changes; for its texture not being homogeneous, but marked throughout with perfect regularity into spaces or particles so minute as to require to be very highly magnified before they can be even seen at all, the anatomist is provided with the means of detecting movements, which, without this circumstance, must have remained con- cealed. It is accordingly by the study of this variety of the tissue that the results just alluded to have been obtained. When a fragment retaining its contractility is torn up into its elementary fibres, these are seen to undergo a slow movement at certain points, especially where they have suffered violence, as at their broken extremities. This movement consists of a shortening and thickening of the material composing the fibre, as is shown by the general outline of the part, but especially by the appearances visible in its interior. The transverse stripes, both light and dark, become longer and thinner; in other words, the discs expand in circumference, flatten and approximate to one another; or to use another form of expression, the fibrillar become shorter and thicker, both in the particles composing them and the material connecting those particles. a, Uncontracted part, b, Contracted part, along the border of which, at c, c, the sarcolemma is raised from the surface by the water that has been absorbed, that has thereby caused the contraction, and by it has been expelled from the contractile mass. (See fig. 301.) 2 N