130 TUBULAR NERVE FIBRES. lines (a, c, c, b), which appear to mark the outer and inner limits of an inner layer of different composition and refracting power, and which is generally known as the white substance of Schwann. This forms a tube within the tubular membrane. Within the white substance of Schwann is a transparent material, occupying the axis of the nerve-tube (a, a). This has been called by Bemak the fattened band; but a better name for it is that of axis cylinder, employed by Kosenthal and Purkinje. It is evident that the whole of the matter contained in the tubular membrane is extremely soft, for it is found to yield under very slight pressure, and may be readily made to pass from one part of the tube to another. When pressed out (b, h to I), it is apt to assume more or less the appearance and form of globules, which retain the same characters of outline which they possessed in the nerve-tube ; that is, they have B A, Diagram of tubular fibre of a spinal nerve:— a, axis cylinder; b, inner border of white sub- stance ; c, c, outer border of white substance ; d, d, tubular membrane. B, Tubular fibres :—e, in a natural state, show- ing the parts as in A; /, the white substance and axis cylinder interrupted by pressure, while the tubular membrane remains; g, the same with varicosities ; h, various appearances of the white substance and axis cylinder forced out of the tubular membrane by pressure; i, broken end of a tubular fibre, with the white substance closed over it; h, lateral bulging of white substance and axis cylinder from pressure; I, the same more complete ; g', varicose fibres of various sizes from the cerebellum. c, gelatinous fibres from the solar plexus, treated with acetic acid to exhibit their cell- nuclei, b and c magnified 320 diameters. fig. 52. a transparent interior, bounded by a layer of the white substance of Schwann, marked by its double contour. It would appear that the latter structure is particularly apt to form a coating or film over the central material, and thus to isolate it from surrounding tissues. This tendency may be understood by a reference to fig. 52, h to /. When the nerve-tube is placed in ether, the white substance is in part immediately dissolved, and a number of oil-like globules appear both within and without the tubular membrane. (See fig. 53, b). Probably its margarine is dissolved, and the elaine set free in the form of oil-globules. The interior of the tube is also rendered decidedly granular. In water the white substance of Schwann remains undissolved, while the interior of the fibre is frequently, though not always, rendered granular.