CHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. 264 These changes are always local, or partial, and it is most evident from the characters they constantly present, that they are not limited to any determinate regions, points, or segments, but occur indifferently wherever the exciting cause may chance to be exerted. Neither discs nor fibrillas appear to have the smallest share, as aggregations of particles bearing those particular forms, in producing the phenomena of contraction. A contraction is never bounded to a particular number of discs or fibrillee, and is never accurately limited by the interval between two discs. It constantly happens that at the edge of the contracted part several discs are only partially engaged in it. A contraction generally, when commencing at the broken end of a fibre, occupies its whole width there; but when it commences at the border of the fibre it may be confined to a portion of many discs. And, further, a contraction never occupies the whole length of a fibre or fibrilla at once. A contraction excited in an elementary fibre by the contact of a hair extends into the mass equally in all directions, as we might suppose it would do, if the mass were homogeneous. In a word, an attentive study of these interesting phenonema has convinced me that in the bare fact of contraction the build of the fibre is an item of no importance whatever: the exquisite symmetry displayed in the apposition of its component particles is, as it were, disregarded and overlooked, while the whole process is to be referred to the material itself, the ultimate tissue, whose property is contractility. This property appears to reside both in the particles and the substance connecting them. The ultimate movements, therefore, on which contraction depends, whatever they may consist in, are molecular, and far beyond the reach of sense. It will be perceived that this view of the subject is the only one which can harmonize the fact of contraction in voluntary muscle with the same phenomenon in structures which have no complicated internal arrangement of particles. In regarding contractility, therefore, as a property of the living muscular fibre in general, it is meant that it resides in it as a property without which it would not be muscle, and in such a manner that no particle, however microscopic, can be detached from muscle which does not of itself, and independently of the rest, possess this property, as long as it possesses vitality. It follows from what has been advanced that those hypotheses which refer contraction to a force exerted between determinate but distant points of the fibre, as where the nervous fibrilke cross it, or at intervals such as Mullek* has sometimes seen in Insects, must fall to the ground. They are so entirely incompatible with the facts above stated that it can scarcely be necessary to dwell at length on the other reasons for rejecting them, or on the explanation of the phenomena adduced in their support. The main fact on which they have been built is that long ago mentioned by Hales, and more recently studied with minute care by Pkevost and Dumas, viz., that in the * ' Physiology,' by Baly, p. 889.