180 THE COCHLEABIS MUSCLE. of any one having hinted at what we regard to be its real nature. The outer wall of the cochlear canal presents a groove, ascending the entire coil, opposite the osseous zone of the lamina spiralis, and formed principally by a rim of bone, which, in section, looks like a spur (fig. 137, r), projecting from the tympanic margin of the groove, the opposite margin being very slightly or not at all marked. This groove diminishes in size towards the apex of the cochlea. It gives attachment to the structure in question, by means of a firm dense film of tissue, having a fibrous character, and the fibres of which run lengthwise in the groove, and are intimately united to it, especially along the projecting rim. From this cochlear ligament, the cochlearis muscle passes to the margin of the membranous zone, filling the groove, and projecting into the canal, so as to assist in dividing the tympanic and vestibular scalse from one another, and thus forming in fact the most external, or the muscular zone of the spiral lamina. Thus the cochlear muscle is broad at its origin from the groove of bone, and slopes above and below to the thin margin in which it terminates, so that its section is triangular, and it presents three surfaces, one towards the groove of bone, and one to Line of attachment of membranous zone of lamina spiralis, of which a portion, b, remains attached. The surface below this line is in the scala tympani; the surface above in the scala vestibuli. c, Projecting columns, with inter- vening recesses, in tbe vestibular part of the cochlearis muscle. PIG. 140.—INNER VIEW OP COCHLEARIS MUSCLE OF THE SHEEP. each of the scalar. The surface towards the vestibular scala is much wider than that towards the tympanic scala, and presents, in a band running parallel to, and at a short distance from, the margin of the membranous zone, a series of arched vertical pillars, with intervening recesses, much resembling the arrangement of the musculi pectinati of the heart. (Fig. 140, c.) These lead to, and terminate in, the outer clear belt of the membranous zone, which forms a kind of tendon to the muscle. This entire arrangement is almost sufficient of itself to determine the muscular nature of the structure. If its fibres were of the striped variety no doubt would remain ; but its mass, evidently fibrous, is loaded with nuclei, and filled with capillaries, following the direction of the fibres, and in almost all respects it has the closest similarity to the ciliary muscle of the eye. The nuclei diminish in number as the fibres end in the tendinous part; and they are made much more evident by the addition of the acetic acid. The action of the muscle must be that of making tense the membranous portion of the lamina spiralis, and so perhaps of adjusting it to the modifications of sound. As the ciliary muscle, though of the unstriped variety, adjusts the transparent media of