89 ON THE PROCESS OF OSSIFICATION. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Part I, Chapter V., pp. 117 to 125. Published February, 1843. The minute history of the process by which temporary cartilage is converted into bone, is of extreme interest. Very good descriptions of it have been given by Sharpey, Mieschicr, and others; from which, however, it will be seen by the following account that we differ in some important particulars. The nucleated cells of temporary cartilage are small, and pretty uniformly scattered through a sparing, homogeneous intercellular substance. The nuclei are granular, and large compared with the cells, which are distinguished from the sur- rounding substance principally by their transparency around each nucleus. (See fig. 30, a a'.) In the vicinity of the point of ossification (for example, in one of the long bones), a singular change is observed. The cells are seen to be gradually arranging themselves in linear series, which run down, as it were, towards the ossifying surface. The appearance they present on a vertical section is represented in fig. 30. At first their aggregation is irregular, and the series small (b b'); but, nearer to the surface of ossification, they form rows of twenty or thirty. These rows are slightly undulated, and are separated from one another by the intercellular substance. The cells com- posing them are closely applied to one another, and compressed, so that even their nuclei seem in many instances to touch: the nuclei themselves are also flattened, and expanded laterally. The lowest rows dip into, and rest in deep narrow cups of bone, formed by the osseous transformation of the intercellular substance between the rows. These cups are seen by a vertical section in fig. 30, c c', and by a transverse section on the level of the ossifying surface in fig. 31. As ossification advances between the rows, these cups are of course converted into closed areolae of bone, the walls of which are lamelli- form, and at first extremely thin. Immediately upon the ossifying surface, the nuclei, which were before closely compressed, separate considerably from one another by the increase of material within N