"WAVES" OF CONTRACTION. 116 These contractions pull upon the remainder of the fibre only in the direction' of its length, so that along its edge the transverse stripes in the intervals are very much widened and distorted. These contractions are never stationary, but oscillate from end to end, relinquishing on the one hand what they gain on the other. When they are numerous along the same margin, they interfere most irregularly with one another, dragging one another as though striving for the mastery, the larger ones continually overcoming the smaller; then subsiding as though spent, stretched again by new spots of contraction; and again, after a short period of repose, engaged in their turn by some advancing wave: this is the first stage of the phenomenon. (Fig. 50.) At a subsequent stage, the ends of the fibre commonly cease to be fixed, in consequence of the intermediate portions, by their contraction, receiving some of the pressure of the glass. The contractions, therefore, increasing in number and extent, gradually engage the whole substance of the fibre, which then is reduced to at least one-third of its original length. The muscular tissue in these animals is comparatively tough; but, where it is more fragile, as in the Frog, it may give way in the intervals between spots of ; Border of an elementary fibre of a young Crab, showing a spot of contraction, and the sarco- II lemma elevated in the form of bullse by the expressed water. Magnified 300 diameters. FIG. 50. contraction, and become ruptured and disorganised in various degrees.* In fishes, we have seen a succession of phenomena similar to what has been described in the Crab; waves of contraction advancing and receding, but gradually augmenting in bulk, till the whole fibre was finally contracted. (Fig- 51.) In all these examples, as long as the ends of the fragment are fixed, and will not yield to the convellent force, that force is seen to be exerted in a momentary manner in successive portions of the mass. In proportion as they yield to it, the resistance which enabled the contraction of new parts to stretch those from which it was receding is removed, and the appearances of contraction remain. A distinction is required between the contractile force and the contraction resulting from its exercise. The latter will be permanent, if no force from without be exerted to obliterate it by stretching; for a contracted muscle has no power of extending itself, there is no repellent force between its molecules. From these phenomena, therefore, it is possible to eliminate the appearances resulting from a subsided force, and to judge of the mode and duration of action of the force itself. Thus sifted, they prove * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, p. 490, pi. xix., fig. 75 and ante, p. 32.