16 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND proved by phenomena observable in contraction, which will be hereafter described. What these means of connexion may be, however, it is by no means easy to determine. My observations have not led me much further than to enable me to point out some examples in which this adhesion was exceedingly strong, and others where it was so slight, that all trace of stria? was almost sure to be obliterated by the mere act of severing the fasciculi from one another. For instance, muscles in maceration present great variety as to the facility with which they divide into the elementary fibrils, and sometimes their union is so intimate as to permit complete disorganization rather than such separation. But in recent specimens there is a similar variety even more striking in degree. The primitive fasciculi, by traction on their extremities, usually break off short, the line of fracture not appearing to pertain more to the direction of the fibrilla? than to that of the stria?; and there is generally a slight derangement of both these in its immediate neighbourhood. Sometimes, however, the fibrillse project in considerable numbers, as a lash, from both extremities of the fracture, many detaching themselves completely, and floating separately around. Here their lateral adhesion is exceedingly slight, and seems to be diminished by contact with water. The best specimens of this kind are from birds, which also afford the most characteristic transverse sections; and the one fact is strikingly confirmatory of the other, for I conceive it to be owing to the slightness of the connexion between the fibrilla?, that in the latter case these appear so isolated and distinct. On the other hand, it is not uncommon for the fasciculi to evince a disposition to split in the direction of the stria?, so that occasionally they break off quite square, or when pulled at their ends, crack partially acrpss at several points, in lines corresponding to the striae ; this is seen in the case of the Pig (fig. 21). Or several contiguous stria? may be thus separated from one another, as Mr. Sket has well represented,* and as I have not unfrequently seen. An example of this from the Human subject is given in fig. 22. Lastly, the plates, of which the stria? are the edges or sections, may be detached entire, as discs, presenting no evidence of being formed of segments of fibrilla?. Fasciculi thus splitting have no longitudinal lines whatever, so intimate is the union of their fibrilla?. The stria?, on the contrary, are finely developed. Such, however, are not very often met with. Some examples are figured (figs. 23, 24, 25, 26, 27), one from the Sprat, procured while in a recent state, and others from a Lizard which had lain long in spirit. In these instances, the segments of the fibrilla? were united into discs of so compact a texture, that their surfaces presented little or no appearance of their component particles; and they were, on the contrary, so transparent, that a careless observer might have imagined them to be mere rings. One of the most illustrative specimens of the lateral adhesion now spoken of, occurred in a rabbit newly born, which had been kept for some months in spirit. The parts being in progress of development, seemed to have undergone a partial natural dissection. A mass consisting of two or three f 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, Plate XIX., fig. 5.