xviii PREFATORY MEMOIR. a letter giving an appreciative estimate of his style, remarks that in his day nearly the whole staff—Budd, Partridge, Fare, Forbes, and Kymer-Jones, were excellent lecturers in their several ways, and that, although Bowman was by no means so brilliant a lecturer as either Budd or Todd, his want of animation was compen- sated by his earnest manner and remarkably clear enunciation. He evidently took a deep interest in his work as a teacher, and though far less fascinating than Todd, was more impressive. His delivery was slow, in consequence of his wish to enable students to take full notes of his lectures, a point upon which he always strongly insisted. He appeared to be really fond of teaching, and was always glad to remain in the theatre after his lecture was finished, to explain any difficulty that might have arisen in the minds of the students on the subject under consideration, by whom much information could thus be picked up, whilst his power of expressing in words the thoughts passing through his brain, was a marked feature in his success as a teacher. Turning now to his ophthalmic work, his first important communication was a paper read at the Oxford meeting of the British Association in 1847. This has become classical from the novelty and value of the facts recorded. It was entitled " On Some Points in the Anatomy of the Eye, chiefly in reference to the Power of Adjustment." In this paper he demonstrated simultaneously with, and independently of, Bruecke, the structure and function of the ciliary muscle, and it constituted the subject of the lectures he delivered at Moorfields Hospital. In the year 1851 the ophthalmoscope was devised by Helmholtz, an instrument which has revolutionised the diagnosis and treatment of the diseases of the eye, and Bowman was immediately and profoundly interested in it. He was one of the first to become expert in its use, and we can imagine the animated discussions that would arise when von Graefe and Donders, who met for the first time at Moorfields, in the summer of this year, compared their experience with his. These remarkable men had been attracted to England by the Great Exhibition, and a warm and disinterested friendship sprang up between them and Bowman, which was broken by the death of von Graefe in 1870, whilst Donders survived