xx PREFATORY MEMOIR. is an excellent example of the minute care he bestowed on every step and detail of the operation. Other short but valuable communications on ophthalmic subjects to the ' Eeports of the Koyal London Ophthalmic Hospital,' viz., those on " The Treatment of Lachrymal Structure," and " The Division of the Canaliculus for the Belief of Epiphora; " on " The Use of Two Needles at Once in Capsular Cataract," and on " The Operation for Conical Cornea " are all well known to ophthalmic surgeons. When the Ophthalmological Society of the United Kingdom was founded in 1880, Bowman took the warmest interest in its success, and his position, age, and knowledge made it natural that he should be invited to become the first President. He willingly accepted the office, retaining it for three years. His introductory address was simple and earnest, and he continued to the close of his life to support it by liberal donations to its funds. He was delighted to see a numerous band of a younger generation devoting themselves to the earnest study of the diseases of the eye, and by exciting mutual interest and by the exhibition and record of cases that would otherwise have been lost, developing and rendering more accurate and successful both diagnosis and treatment. The natural bent of his mind was towards pathology and operative surgery and to classical work. He may, perhaps, have felt that he suffered from competition with so brilliant an operator as Prof. Fergusson, for it was reluctantly and, as it were, compul- sorily that he became a specialist. When patients presented themselves at King's College Hospital, and asked for the " oculist," he declined the appellation, saying he was a surgeon; but, partly owing to his success in the treatment of the affections of the eye, and partly owing to the circumstance that after Dalrymple's death the heads of the profession, represented by Sir James Clark, Todd, and Liston, strongly supported him, the tide of ophthalmic practice became too strong to be resisted, and he gave himself up to it. His careful and prolonged work with the microscope was an excellent introduction to the delicate manipulations required for the successful prosecution of ophthalmic surgery, and it was soon generally recognised that he