235 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. Hence it is clear that the discs and jibrillce consist of the same parts, and merely result from the different direction in which the mass breaks up. To detach a fibrilla entire is to remove a particle from every disc, and to take away a disc is to abstract a particle of every fibrilla. Thus, every disc consists of a particle of every fibrilla, and every fibrilla of a particle of every disc. Therefore every fibrilla of the same fibre has the same number of particles, and every disc in like manner is composed of the same number of particles. If, now, isolated discs and nbrillee be examined under a high magnifying power, they will be found to bear out, in the fullest manner, the description that has been given. The discs are marked on the edge by the fragments of the longitudinal lines, and if regarded on their fiat surface, present a finely granular appearance, the granules being equal in diameter with the fibrillae. (See fig. 288.) In fact, the dark lines between the granules are the fragments of the longitudinal lines of the interior of the fibre. Again, the fibrilhe, whether taken from the surface or from the interior, are always found to be marked at intervals by transverse dark lines, which are nothing more than the fragments of the transverse lines seen on and in the fibre. They uniformly correspond with them in distance and force. (See fig. 287, c.) Thus, PIG. 288.—SURFACE OF A DISC SEPARATED FROM AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF A LIZARD WHICH HAD LAIN LONG IN SPIRIT. MAGNIFIED 500 DIAMETERS. It displays the finely granular structure spoken of in the text. The granules are intended to be represented equal in size. whether the fibre cleave crosswise or lengthwise, the resulting fragments bear in their structure their respective portions of the lines, taking an opposite course, and evincing a co-existent arrangement in the opposite direction ; and when a detached disc or fibrilla is itself broken, the fracture follows the lines thus imprinted in its structure. It remains to inquire, what is the nature and meaning of the dark lines so often mentioned ? They can be best examined in the separated discs or fibriUse; and they appear to be undoubtedly the results of an unequal refraction of the light transmitted through the object. The light spaces intercepted between them, and which by their union constitute the discs and fibrilke, have the aspect of small lenses or particles of higher refractive power than the connecting material, which consequently is in darkness when the inclosed spaces are in focus. By placing the object out of focus, however, the light and dark parts are reversed, which is precisely what occurs with true lenses. I have had a series of beaded rods of glass constructed, which have exactly the same appearance as the fibrillas ; and when two of these are regarded between the observer and the window, one being in front of the other, and their beads corresponding, the dark circumferences, visible round the beads of each rod when seen separately, are