252 DISTRIBUTION OF MUSCLE IN THE BODY. which furnishes it. But further than this, as to how, or to what extent this influence may so emanate, or as to what may be its nature, it would, perhaps, in the present state of knowledge, be hardly warrantable even to speculate. d. Of the Distribution of the Striped and Unstriped Fibre in the Body. The striped fibre is met with in all the voluntary muscles, and in a few involuntary, as the constrictors of the pharynx and the muscular coat of the oesophagus, and the heart. In the oesophagus it appears to be. mingled with the other variety to a somewhat uncertain extent. In some specimens from the human subject I have been unable to detect any striped fibres in the lower half of that tube, either in the circular or longitudinal layer, but in other examples they have been traceable to within an inch of the stomach. Among the lower animals considerable differences occur, as has been well pointed out by Mr. Gulliver/"" who observes that in general " the muscular fibre of animal life (striped) extended further towards the stomach in the outer than in the inner layer of the oesophageal muscular sheath." In several animals this gentleman found the striped fibres even on the stomach (as in the Babbit, Lepus cuniculus, Linn., the Sheep, Ovis aries, Desm., the Sloth Bear, Ursus labiatus, Blainv.), while in many others he met with them to within a very short distance of that cavity. Dr. Todd has also shown them to me on the glandular pouch at the cardiac extremity of the stomach in the Dormouse. It is still unknown in what manner the two varieties of fibre are arranged at this point of junction, some supposing that they are simply intermixed, others that they pass into one another by imperceptible gradations. The former of these views is that which appears most consonant with my own observations. Mr. Skey considerst that the fibres of the heart " possess a somewhat compound character of texture," and this opinion seems highly probable. They possess, it is true, the transverse stripes indicative of an arrangement of particles in parallel series, but there is frequently a want of that uniformity and precision in this appearance which so remarkably characterize voluntary muscle. The cross lines are apt to be broken and interrupted, and are sometimes difficult to discover at all. This condition is well represented by Mr. Skey in fig. 5 of his second plate. In some of the smaller and lower animals the particles never form transverse stripes. These fibres, as explained by him, are smaller than the average diameter of the voluntary muscles of the same subject by two-thirds, and in most parts of the heart they are not aggregated in parallel sets, but twine and change their relative position. Striped fibres have been found in the iris, in the small muscles of the ear, and in those muscular fasciculi that surround the urethra immediately * ' Proceedings of the Zoological Society of London,' No. 81, Sept., 1839. t 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 381.