216 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. System,' in which he will find the chief of the conflicting statements and opinions of physiologists detailed and discussed. It has already been explained in the present article, that the latest observations on the structure of the villi, and apparently the most exact ones, because conducted with the most improved lenses, and accordant with other collateral discoveries, make it highly probable that the opinion assigning open mouths to the lacteals is erroneous. In the description of those orifices, furnished by Treviranus, we may plainly discern his partial acquaintance with characters which we now know to be those of the prismatic epithelium investing the villi; and the less precise assertions of the same kind by several other excellent anatomists, we may now, perhaps, fairly consider to have been founded on deceptive appearances which, in their day, did not admit of accurate interpretation. If any such orifices exist, their minuteness must be extreme, and they must lie in the intervals between the prisms of epithelium. But even such attenuated pores, the best microscopes fail to detect, and at least it may with certainty be affirmed, that none large enough to admit a chyle- globule exist. The structure of the villi, no less than our knowledge of the absorbent function in general, seems to indicate that the chyle, when first taken up, is strictly a fluid, and only acquires its solid particles after it has entered the lacteal plexus. Of the Separation of Material front the Body. This function appears to be carried on in every part of the mucous system. One great division, that of the glands, is specially destined to it, as are likewise those portions of the compound mucous membranes, which have been already described as coming properly under the designation of glands. If, however, the essential nature of the function of secretion be adequately considered, it will scarcely be doubted that even the simplest parts of the mucous membranes, and the whole cutaneous surface (as distinguished from its sebaceous and perspiratory glandular onsets) share largely in this important office. It is true that in the skin this function holds a subordinate place to that of defence and protection, but its existence is only an example of what an attentive survey of nature everywhere discovers; the accomplishment of various ends by means of the same simple instruments. The notion, that a secreted product must be fluid, is one that has arisen out of a partial and imperfect insight into the nature of the secreting process. Those matters which are eliminated in the largest quantities and by the largest glands are for the most part so, in the shape under which they meet the eye, that is, after their separation from the organ in which they are secerned. But in the case of the lungs the secretion is gaseous as well as fluid, and in numerous instances, which have been recently brought to light, chiefly by the labours of Henle, it is found, when minutely scrutinized, to consist of organic forms entitled to be styled solid.