265 CHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. abdominal muscles of the Frog detached and excited by galvanism, the elementary fibres are seen to be thrown more or less into a zigzag form. It is evident that in interpreting what they saw these eminent physiologists mistook the relaxed fibres for contracted ones. In conducting such experiments many precautions are required, and, at the best, nothing of the real process of contraction can be witnessed. As Muller correctly remarks, the muscle is too thick to be seen under a high power. Besides, the shock of galvanism causes only an instantaneous contraction, during which the muscle is so agitated that it is in vain to attempt to examine its condition. It gets out of the focus of the instrument. What is seen afterwards is not the contraction but its result, viz., an approximation of the extremities of the fibres. If the galvanic shock has acted uniformly on all the fibres (which is rare), they all remain straight; but if on a part only, those which have escaped contraction are thrown into zigzags by having their ends brought nearer through their cellular connection with neighbouring contracted fibres. It is most natural that the precise point of such flexures should often be determined by the passage of nerves or vessels across the fibres. This is corroborated by the circumstance that relaxed fibres fall at once into zigzags when their ends are made to approach by mechanical means. MM. Prevost and Dumas have themselves drawn attention to an example of shortening without zigzags in the case of the distended abdominal muscles of the female Frog before spawning. They found that the fibres of those muscles when cut across remained straight, after shortening from 145 to 107 millimetres. Independently of the immense disadvantage at which the hypothesis in question supposes the force to act (viz., either between the particles at the retiring angles only of the zigzags, or between the distant angles themselves), it seems quite inconsistent with the able experiments of Schwann, which show that the power of a muscle diminishes in a direct ratio with the degree of its contraction. With these experiments, indeed, any hypothesis is at variance which is based on the idea of an attraction between isolated and separate points or particles, as, for example, the sarcous elements, for it cannot be conceived but that such an attractive force would augment in a multiplying ratio with the proximity of the points attracted. 2. On Passive and Active Contraction.—Passive Contraction.—Passive contraction is that which every muscle is continually prone to undergo, independently of stimuli, and by the mere quality of its tissue. The muscles are ever kept on the stretch by the nature of their position and attachments, and cannot have their ends so approximated by attitude or otherwise, as that their tendency to shorten themselves shall cease. If, for example, the rectus muscle of the thigh have its extremities brought as near together as can be effected artificially by posture, they would yet be found to approach still nearer on being freed from their attachment to the bones. This tendency to contract has been distinguished by the term retractility, from its being manifested by the retraction that occurs when the belly of a muscle is cut across. 2 n 2