270 ACTIVE CONTRACTION". laceration. Having once given way, the contracted parts have become isolated, and can no longer have been extended after the subsidence of their contractile force; they consequently retain the form and appearances they possessed, when surprised, as it were, by the rupture they have themselves produced of the intervening parts. Supposing, for a moment, that active contraction were a universal and equable act, and that by the superior power of an antagonist a weak muscle has been ruptured, the appearances resulting would manifestly be entirely different from those now detailed. The fibres beyond their ruptured point would have their transverse stripes uniformly approximated. From the preceding facts I conclude first, that active contraction never occurs in the whole mass of a muscle at once, nor in the whole of any one elementary fibre, but is always partial at any one instant of time; secondly, that no active contraction of a muscle, however apparently prolonged, is more than instantaneous in any one of its parts or particles ; and therefore, thirdly, that the sustained active contraction of a muscle is an act compounded of an infinite number of partial and momentary contractions, incessantly changing their place, and engaging new parts in succession; for every portion of the tissue must take its due share in the act. Two phenomena yet remain to be mentioned, which, by admitting of a satisfactory explanation on this view of the subject, give strong testimony to its correctness. The first is the muscular sound heard on applying the ear to a muscle in action. It resembles, according to Dr. Wollaston's apt simile,* the distant rumbling of carriage wheels, or an exceedingly rapid and faint tremulous vibration, which, when well marked, has a metallic tone. It is the sound of friction, and appears to be occasioned by those movements of the neighbouring fibres upon one another, with which the partial contractions must be attended in their incessant oscillations. The other phenomenon is one, the existence of which has been recently ascertained by MM. Becquerel and BRESCHET,t viz., that a muscle during contraction augments in temperature. They have found this increase to be usually more than 1° Fahr., but sometimes, when the exertion has been continued for five minutes, as in sawing a piece of wood, it has been double that amount. This development of heat seems to be in a great measure attributable to, and even a necessary consequence of, the friction just alluded to. Thus it would appear that active contraction consists in a disturbance of that state of equilibrium ordinarily existing in muscles when at rest; that their different portions successively undergo momentary contractions, and that there is always a considerable part of each fibre uncontracted. This will account for the remarkable fact that detached fragments of the voluntary fibre will contract by two-thirds of their * ' Philosophical Transactions," 1811. t " Recherches sur la chaleur animale, au moyen des appareils thernio-electriques; " par MM. Becquerel et Beeschet, Membres de l'lnstifrut. 'Archives du Museum,' torn, i., p. 402.