124 VARIETIES OF MUSCULAR MOVEMENT. and lasts long; but if it be evanescent and its character excitable, the rigor begins very soon and quickly terminates. This is true in different individuals and classes of animals, and corresponds entirely with what we have already said of the varieties of this property. Its cause is obscure, and may be complex ; but its resemblance to the contraction of fibrine after recent coagulation is too obvious to be overlooked. Its nature is shown by the preceding observations (p. 115). We have the power, at will, under certain limitations, of producing, checking, and regulating the amount of contraction in the voluntary muscles; and, as a necessary part of this power, we are able to appreciate, by certain sensations originating in the muscles, what precise degree of contraction is present in each. This latter is only that modification of common sensibility which belongs to muscle. It has been termed the muscular sense. In it we possess a most important aid to the sense of touch, being able accurately to vary the position and amount of pressure on external objects in voluntary accordance with the impressions these communicate to the sensorium through the tactile nerves ; and by it we are able to estimate with nicety the amount of muscular power required to balance various resistances, as weight, &c. In general, these resistances must be brought into relation with the muscular sense through the organ of touch, which is adapted to this purpose by its superficial position on the body. But the powers of the muscular sense, isolated from tact, are exhibited, in its enabling one to estimate the weight of a tumour developed in the interior of the limb, and in general the resistance afforded by the weight of one part of the body, or the action of one muscle or set of muscles, relatively to that of another. Hence a principal source of the marvellous power which all animals possess of associating the various parts of their bodies in numberless combinations of harmonious movement. Of some varieties of Muscular Movement. Having described the differences between the movements of active and passive contraction we shall now be more able to refer to their proper causes those varieties of movement by which certain muscles or classes of muscles are distinguished. In briefly adverting to these, we shall have to glance at some collateral considerations regarding the mode of their connexion with the nervous system, which cannot be fully understood without reference to what will be afterwards said under that head. The action of the sphincters of the anus and bladder seems, at first, peculiar. They are constantly contracted, except during the passage of the contents; and yet no fatigue attends this persistent action. The explanation is very simple. They remain contracted unless the contained matters are forced within them by a superior power. Now, their mass, and therefore their contractility, is superior to that of the wall of the cavity above; consequently their passive contraction endures while that