42 MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE ANT) Explanation of the Plates. Unless otherwise stated, the figures are represented as seen under a magnifying power of 300 diameters. PLATE XVI. Fig. 1. Human pectoralis major, macerated in liquor of ammonia. Transverse section, showing the prismatical form of the primitive fasciculi. A wet specimen. Fig. 2. Flat primitive fasciculus, from the Staghorn Beetle (Lucanus cervus). Fig. 3. Transverse section of a large primitive fasciculus from the Skate (Raia Batis), showing the extremities of the primitive fibrillas, and the corpuscles throughout its interior. Fig. 4. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the Haddock (Gadus CEgleJinus), showing everywhere the extremities of the fibrillas in close apposition with one another. Some few are more distinct than the rest. The disparity in size between contiguous fasciculi is here exemplified. Fig. 5. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the leg of the Frog, showing the same points. Fig. 6. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the Boa, showing the same. Fig. 7. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the pectoral muscle of the Teal [Querquedida crecca), showing the same. In this the extremities of the fibrillas are particularly evident and far apart, and at a the sarcolemma is seen. Treated with weak acid. Fig. 8. Transverse section of primitive fasciculi from the human biceps, showing the fibrillas everywhere, but most distinctly near the surface. Fig. 9. Primitive fasciculus partially fractured, and its interior displayed. The fracture on the outside follows the direction of the transverse striae, while in the interior the broken fibrillas are of various lengths. All these fibrillas present a series of dark and light points. From the Boa : 400 diameters. Fig. 10. Mass of primitive fasciculi (from the leg of a Eabbit at birth), stretched and partially ruptured. The form of the fibrillas still connecting the broken parts is seen more highly magnified in several sketches, b, b, b, and also how their segments conspire to form transverse and longitudinal strias, c. Fig. 11. Part of a fibrilla from the rectus oculi of a large fish (Shark?) that had been long immersed in spirit, very highly magnified to show the form of the segments. Fig. 12. Fragment of a fibrilla from the heart of the Turtle, showing the form of the segments. Obtained by maceration.