203 NERVES AND AREOLAR TISSUE. Of the Nerves. These are numerous and varied, as might be expected from the position of the mucous system in regard to the rest of the body. They may all be styled afferent, and are divisible into three kinds, viz., the sensory, the excito-motory, and the sympathetic. The nerves of special sense distributed to this system are those of smell, taste, and touch. The nerves of commen sensation and the excito-motory nerves are almost exclusively found here. The tubules of the sympathetic nerves are chiefly given to the proper mucous membranes and to the glands. All these will be considered more at length under other heads, and they are therefore only referred to here. Of the Areolar Tissue. Before describing the remarkable varieties presented by this tissue under different parts of the mucous system, I must advert to its constitution in those situations where its ordinary characters are well marked—as in subcutaneous fascia, in muscle, on the exterior of the pharynx, &c. Singular as it may appear, there is no correct account of this structure in any of the works on minute anatomy. It in truth consists of two tissues, distinct from each other, and respectively allied to the white and to the yellow fibrous tissues. The white fibrous element of areolar tissue is chiefly in the form of bands of very unequal thickness, in which are to be seen numerous streaks taking the general direction of the whole, but not parallel to the border, nor continuous from end to end. These streaks more resemble the creases of a longitudinal folding than intervals between separate fibriilae, for which they have been mistaken. These bands split up without difficulty in the long direction, whence result fibrils of the most varied width, the finest being far too minute for measurement, even with the best instruments.* These bands interlace and cross one another in various directions, and their natural course is wavy. They frequently subdivide and join those near them. Besides these bands, commonly called fasciculi, there are some finer filaments of the utmost tenuity which seem to take an uncertain course among the rest. The yellow fibrous element is everywhere in the form of solitary fibrillar, which correspond in their essential characters with the tissue of that name. They are disposed to curl, and are truly branched at intervals of variable length; these branches (which usually retain the size of the fibril from which they spring) becoming continuous with others in the neighbourhood. They have higher refractive properties than the white element, and their borders are consequently darker. It is easy to overlook this twofold composition of areolar tissue in specimens * The fibrillse of true white fibrous tissue are almost precisely similar, and, as I believe, are only produced by the observer himself in opening out his specimen for inspection.