67 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. clearer light the other striking resemblances between the circulation of the liver and kidney. The kidney of the Boa, being composed of isolated lobes, of a compressed reniform shape, displays all the points of its structure in peculiar simplicity and beauty. At what may be termed the hilus of each lobe, the branches of the vena porta and duct separate from those of the renal artery and emulgent vein ; the two former spreading side by side, in a fan-like form, over the opposite surfaces of the lobe, while the two latter enter its substance, and radiate together iu a plane midway between these surfaces. The lobe is made up of the ramifications of these four sets of vessels, in the following mode : Each duct, as it runs over the surface, sends down a series of branches which penetrate in a pretty direct manner towards the central plane. Arrived there, they curl back, and take a more or less retrograde course towards the surface, and finally, becoming more convoluted, terminate in the Malpighian bodies, which are all situated in a layer at some distance within the lobe, parallel to the central plane, and nearer to it than to the surface. The ducts never anastomose. The artery subdivides into extremely minute twigs, no larger than capillaries, which diverge on either hand, and enter the Malpighian bodies. The efferent vessels are of the same size as the afferent, and on emerging take a direct course to the surface of the lobe, and join the branches of the vena porta there spread out. The branches of the portal vein on the surface, send inwards a very numerous series of twigs of nearly uniform capacity, and only a little larger than the vessels of the capillary plexus, in which they almost immediately terminate. This is the plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. It extends from the surface to the central plane of the lobe, and there ends in the branches of the emulgent vein. ' Thus the efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies are radicles of the portal vein, and, through the portal vein, empty themselves, as in the higher tribes, into the plexus surrounding the uriniferous tubes. The only real difference between this form of kidney and that of Mammalia, is, that there is here a vessel bringing blood that has already passed through the capillaries of distant parts, to be added to that coming from the Malpighian bodies, and to circulate, with it, through the plexus surrounding the tubes. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies run up to the surface in order to throw their blood through the whole extent of the capillary plexus ; which they would fail to do, if they entered it in any other part. I have described the renal artery as being spent upon the Malpighian bodies ; but in the hilus of the lobe it gives off, as in the higher animals, a few slender twigs to the coats of the excretory ducts and of the larger vessels. The capillaries of these twigs are easily seen, and, in all probability, discharge themselves into the branches of the portal vein. The circulation through this form of kidney, may be aptly compared with that through the liver, as described by Mr. Kieknan in his invaluable paper on that gland. The plexus surrounding the tubes corresponds with the portal-hepatic plexus, which, k 2