MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 34 the same appearance as its other parts, presenting a perfect terminal disc, and the sarcolemma attached to its border. The corpuscles also advance as far as the extremity. On the Mechanism of the Movement of Voluntary Muscle. Nothing certain is yet known concerning the more minute changes which the primitive fasciculi undergo during a state of contraction. The theory of Prevost and Dumas, though still finding a place in the best physiological works, seems to be falling every day into more general discredit. Many who have endeavoured to inspect the phenomenon on which it was based, have failed in convincing themselves that it is the true condition of contraction; and others, though noticing the fact of the zigzag flexure of the fasciculi, have not confirmed the account given of the correspondence of the angles to the transit of nerves. Professor Owen has been led to doubt it from observing the contraction of the muscular fibres in small filariae (such as commonly infest the abdominal cavity of the Cod), and more especially from observing the contraction of the retractor muscles of a species of Yesicularia. " Each separate fibre of the retractor muscle," he says, "is seen with great distinctness, and is characterised by a single knot or swelling in the middle. In the act of retracting the tentacles,'the fibres become shorter and thicker, especially at the central knot, but do not fall out of the straight line."* I am ignorant whether these be fasciculi having transverse strias. If not, the bearing of the observation on the contraction of striated muscle is less direct and important. The same acute observer afterwards explains, that the zigzag folding of the fibres is characteristic of their state of relaxation, when not stretched by antagonist muscles. Dr. Allen Thomson also, on repeating the experiment of Hales and Peevost on the Frog, "observed single fibres continuing in contraction, and being simply shortened, and not falling into zigzag plicse: and he was led to suspect from this and other circumstances, that the zigzag arrangement was not produced until after the act of contraction had ceased."t M. Lauth, who seems to have investigated this subject most carefully, states that a fasciculus may shorten with or without zigzag inflexions; but he supposes that at all times the fasciculus presents in its whole extent transverse rugge, which may probably, he says, be due to the contraction of the primitive fibrillae."^ Muller says, that contraction by the approximation of the bead-like enlargement can neither be demonstrated nor proved not to take place, but he seems inclined to think such a conjecture not improbable, because the beads of the fibrillar are not necessary to the contraction of the fasciculus into belly-like portions, or to their zigzag inflexion; and also because the strias are not always at the same distance on contiguous fasciculi. "This," he adds, "is all that * Hunter's Works, Palmer's Edition, vol. iv., Note, p. 261-2. t Ibid. \ ' LTustitut,' No. 73, quoted by Muller, Baly's Translation, p. 888.