27 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. is prepared to detect them, they may be discovered on the surface next the observer ; and generally, the folds of the sarcolemma occasioned by a large bulla visible at the margin are traceable for some distance over the proximal surface. In such a case the fibrillae and their striae are beyond the range of the focus in which the sarcolemma is apparent. Sometimes the fluid is expressed in such quantity as to separate the tunic completely from the fibrillae for some length, a circumstance which becomes especially notable when the specimen is accidentally bent, for the fibrillae then take the shortest course along its concavity, the distended membrane forming the convexity of the curve at a considerable distance. The whole sarcolemma thus assumes the appearance of a crystal tube, filled with a transparent fluid, immersed in which the fibrillse pursue their course as a contracted bundle. Lest it should be imagined that the fluid forming these bullae is a normal constituent of the fasciculi, I may observe that none are developed on contracting muscle, when either unwetted, or immersed in a medium of some density, as syrup. Bullae already formed are immediately removed by the presence of syrup, which absorbs their water, and yet I have sought in vain in uncontracted fasciculi placed in syrup for any appearances of shrinking, which would necessarily present themselves did a fluid of so little density exist naturally among any interstices of the fasciculi. There is another illustration of the existence and qualities of the sarcolemma, which seems of so novel and interesting a character, that I cannot refrain from mentioning it. In an Eel, which to all appearance was in perfect health, and contained as usual among its muscles a considerable quantity of fat, one fasciculus of the same size as the rest, instead of presenting the muscular substance, was reduced to a mere diaphanous tube, containing a number of minute parasitic worms, coiled up like the Trichina spiralis, and closely packed together (figs. 41 to 45). The sarcolemma was quite entire, and seemed without disease, but no trace of fibrillae could be discerned on the closest examination. In fact, the sheath of the fasciculus was the only part remaining, the rest having probably become the food of these entozoa. As both ends of the tube remained open, having been broken off, several of the worms escaped from their confinement, and began to show signs of life, uncoiling themselves, and moving about slightly in different directions, with an undulating motion (fig. 42). They were about -j^-th of an inch in length, blunt at one end, and tapering considerably towards the other. They contained in their interior numerous detached dots or granules, of different sizes, but without the appearance of complicated structure, and there were no orifices detectable on their surface (figs. 42, 43). Among the extruded worms there were many globular or oval bodies, nearly as large as one of the coiled parasitess and marked like them with minute dots. Some of these were evidently worms very compactly coiled, but in others no coils could be distinguished. These were smaller, invested by a verj delicate membrane or cyst, having the appearance of immature animals (figs. 44, 45). The whole number of worms in the sheath I found to be more than 100. No other fasciculus was discovered in this state* e 2