76 MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF have induced me to adopt it. I am not unaware how obscure are the regions of hypothesis in physiology, and shall be most ready to renounce my opinion, if it be shown to be inconsistent with truth. In extent of surface, internal structure, and the nature of its vascular network, the membrane of the uriniferous tubes corresponds with that forming the secreting surface of other glands. Hence it seems certain that this membrane is the part specially concerned in eliminating from the blood the peculiar principles found in the urine. To establish this analogy, and the conclusion deduced from it, a few words will suffice. 1. The extent of surface obtained by the involutions of the membrane, will by most be regarded as, itself, sufficient proof. But, 2. Its internal structure is conclusive. Since epithelium has been found by Purkinje and Henle in such enormous quantities on the secreting surface of all true glands, its use cannot be considered doubtful. It never forms less than -§-§ths of the thickness of the secreting membrane, and in the liver it even seems to compose it entirely, for there I have searched in vain for a basement tissue, like that which supports the epithelium in other glands. As I have endeavoured to show in the forthcoming Number of the Cyclopaedia of Anatomy, the epithelium thus chiefly forming the substance of secreting membrane, differs in its general characters from other forms of this structure. Its nucleated particles are never clothed with cilia, and are not surrounded with a definite cell-membrane. They are more bulky, and appear from their refractive properties to contain more substance, their internal texture being very finely mottled, when seen by transmitted light. In these particulars, the epithelium of the kidney-tubes is eminently allied to the best-marked examples of glandular epithelium. 3. The capillary network, surrounding the uriniferous tubes, is the counterpart of that investing the tubes of the testis, allowance being made for the difference in the capacity of these canals in the two glands. It corresponds with that of all true glands in lying on the deep surface of the secreting membrane, and in its numerous vessels everywhere anastomosing freely with one another. These several points of identity may seem too obvious to be dwelt upon, but I have detailed them in order to show, that in all these respects, the Malpighian bodies differ from the secreting parts of true glands. 1. The Malpighian bodies comprise but a small part of the inner surface of the kidney, there being but one to each tortuous tube. 2. The epithelium immediately changes its characters, as the tube expands to embrace the tuft of vessels. From being opaque and minutely mottled, it becomes transparent, and assumes a definite outline. From being bald, it becomes covered with cilia (at least in reptiles, and probably in all classes); and, in many cases, it appears to cease entirely, a short way within the neck of the Malpighian capsule. 3. The blood-vessels instead of being on the deep surface of the membrane, pass through it, and form a tuft on its free surface. Instead of the free anastomosis elsewhere observed, neighbour- ing tufts never communicate, and even the branchlets of the same tuft remain quite isolated from one another.