154 SPIRAL FORM OF THE SWEAT DUCTS. cuticle. This special cuticular tunic of the duct is best exhibited by treatment oi recent specimens with solution of potass., The duct, on leaving the gland, follows a meandering, and often rather spiral, direction, through the areola? of the cutis, to the interval between the papilla?, where it becomes straight; and it again assumes a spiral course in perforating the cuticle. {See fig. 83.) In the cutis its curves are unequal, elongated, and wide; but, in the cuticle, they are commonly as close and regular as those of a common screw, the form of which may be taken as a fair model of the duct in this part. It is not easy to explain the mode in which the spiral form is given to the cuticular part of the duct. It has been imagined to result from the condensation and flattening of the laminas of epidermis as they approach the surface [thus packing the less flattened cells of the duct itself.—W.B.] ; but the fact, that the spirals are not closer near the orifice, is opposed to this notion. Their use, also, is obscure ; for we cannot admit the validity of the ingenious idea that the orifice of a spiral tube must be valvular, and, therefore, FIG. 92. that they mechanically resist the entrance of foreign substances. If they do offer this opposition, it is only by the tortuosity resulting from the spiral arrangement. The proper tunic of the duct in the substance of the cuticle seems designed to keep it pervious, and may be that which gives it its peculiar spiral form. The average diameter of the cavity of the duct is xyootn incn 5 but, as it enters the cuticle, it usually becomes wider. The last two figures, as well as some of the preceding ones, illustrate the anatomy of the sweat-glands. The sebaceous glands are found in most parts of the skin, but are absent from the palms and soles. They are most abundant on the scalp and face (especially about the nose), and about the anus and scrotum. The glandular odoriferce of the genital organs are a variety of them, only remarkable by their secretion. The orifices open either on the general surface, or into the hair-follicles, and they lie either in the cutis or