STRUCTURE OF THE SPIRAL LAMINA OF THE COCHLEA. forming its outer margin, which project free into the vestibular scala, and, in the first coil, terminate almost on a level with the margin of the osseous zone, but more within this margin towards the apex of the cochlea. They thus constitute a kind of second margin to the osseous zone, on the vestibular side of the true margin, and having a groove beneath them, which runs along the whole lamina spiralis, in the vestibular scala, immediately above the true margin of the osseous zone. The intervals between the teeth are to be seen on their upper surface, on their free edge, and also within this groove, so that the teeth are wedge-shaped, and their upper and under surfaces, traced from the free edge, recede. The free projecting part, or teeth of the denticulate lamina form less than a fourth of its entire breadth, and in the remainder of its extent it appears to rest on the osseous zone; seen from above, after the osseous zone lias been rendered more transparent by weak hydrochloric acid (fig. 138), rows of clear lines may be traced from the teeth at the convex edge, o o ■, gn<? a, Free edge of the teeth, which are separated by fissures as far as the line b. The clear tracts, with intervening rows of globules, are seen at cl. e, Margin towards the axis of the cochlea. FIG. 138.—DENTICULATE LAMINA OP THE OSSEOUS ZONE OP THE LAMINA SPIRALIS, SEEN ON THE VESTIBULAR SURFACE. FROM THE SHEEP. MAGNIFIED 100 DIAMETERS. towards the opposite or concave edge of the lamina. These lines appear to be a structure resembling that of the teeth themselves, and they are separated from one another by rows of clear, highly refracting granules, which render the intervals very distinct. These intervals, as seen in the figure, are more or less sinuous and irregularly branched. The denticulate lamina, thus placed on the vestibular surface of the osseous zone, is above, and at some distance from the plexus of the cochlear nerves, which lies near its tympanic surface. The vestibular surface of the osseous zone, including the denticulate lamina, is convex, rising from the free series of teeth toward the modiolus. In the groove already mentioned there is a series of elongated bodies, not unlike columnar epithelium, in which the nuclei are very faint. These bodies are thick and cubical at one end, and taper much towards the other. They are united in a row; and it is possible they may have some analogy to the club-shaped bodies of Jacob's membrane. We can assign them no use. Continuous with the thin margin of the osseous zone is the membranous zone.