CHANGES IN MUSCLE DURING CONTRACTION. 262 have lately shown these to be under the influence of motor nerves ^derived from the spinal marrow, but it seems probable that some at least are normally excited to contract by direct stimulation, to one form of which, that of stretching or distension, they are peculiarly liable from their arrangement as investments to cavities. All muscles, however, may be made to contract by physical and chemical stimuli applied to their fibres. The effects of water and mechanical pressure as immediate stimuli have been already alluded to. Chemical substances may be seen to act similarly, if they be not so powerful as to destroy the texture of the part; and it is probable that electrical forces have a like agency. An interesting phenomenon has been pointed out by Dr. Stokes,* which seems to show very clearly that contractions of voluntary muscles may be excited by an immediate stimulus in the living body. In various cases of phthisis, and in others, particularly those attended with emaciation, a sharp tap with the fingers on any muscular part is instantly followed by a contraction, evidenced by the rise of a defined firm swelling at the point struck, enduring several seconds before it gradually subsides. This is often so prominent as to throw a shadow along the skin, and for the moment it might almost be mistaken for a solid tumour. That it is limited to the point struck is full proof of its being a direct effect of the irritation, and not produced through the intervention of nerves; for a contraction excited in the latter mode would be diffused over the part to which the nervous twigs irritated were supplied, and would therefore frequently extend to some distance. c, On the Visible Changes occurring in Muscle during Contraction. 1. Of the changes essential to the act.—A muscle in action becomes shorter and thicker, and it is well ascertained by experiments often repeated that these changes in its relative dimensions are accurately proportioned to one another. The whole organ neither gains nor loses in bulk. What is true of the organ is true of the tissue—in contraction it increases in diameter and shortens in a corresponding degree. This is all that can be said in general respecting the visible features of this remarkable phenomenon. Late investigations, instead of explaining the manner in which contraction is effected, by showing its dependence on forces previously understood, have only served to point out the inadequacy of the coarse and mechanical hypotheses which physiologists have been so prone to confide in, and to make it more than probable that they must ever be content to repose upon the fact above stated as the simplest which the most refined microscopical analysis can ever disclose. * ' On Diseases of the Chest,' p. 397. See also Dr. Guy, in the new edition of Hooper's ' Physician's Vade Mecum,' p. 92.