115 APPROXIMATION OF THE STRIDE. removed from the body, and contracting in water, have a close bearing on the present question. It has been already said, that such contractions are uniformly partial; but they present two further varieties, either remaining in the part where they first occur, or leaving it as they advance to others in the neighbourhood. The accidental circumstances under which the fragments are placed, explain these varieties. In the former case, the ends of the fragments happen to be freely movable, and are drawn towards each other, according to the amount of contraction occurring in particular spots ; and, as the contractile force leaves these spots and engages others, the ends continue to approximate, the parts once contracted remaining so, because there is no force to extend them. Hence the contraction appears permanent. In the latter case, certain parts of the fibre (as its broken extremities) are fixed more or less firmly, so as to offer a resistance to the contraction that takes place; this resistance enabling the contractile force advancing to new parts to obliterate the traces of contraction in the parts in which it is subsiding, by stretching them. The ends usually become fixed in consequence of their being the first to thicken from Fragment of an elementary fibre (from the Eel) partially contracted in water. Magnified 300 diameters :—a, Uncontracted part, b, Con- tracted part, along the border of which the sarcolemma is raised from the surface by the water that has been absorbed, that has there- by caused the contraction, and by it has been expelled from the contractile mass. ftg. 49. contraction, and from their thus receiving the pressure of the lamina of mica or glass with which it is requisite to cover the object; and they are the first to contract, because irritated by being broken, and by the water, which is absorbed soonest where the sheath is deficient. This fixing of the ends brings the fibres in question nearly into the condition under which they exist in the living body, where it has already been explained that there is always a resistance to be overcome in active contraction. This particular variety of the phenomenon, therefore, deserves special study. Those animals whose muscles are most tenacious of their contractility are the best suited for examination; and, among these, the young Crab or Lobster may be most easily obtained. In an elementary fibre from the claw, laid out on glass, and then covered with a wet lamina of mica, the following phenomena are always to be observed. The ends become first contracted and fixed. Then contractions commence at isolated spots along the margin of the fibre, which they cause to bulge. At first, they only engage a very limited amount of the mass, spreading into its interior equally in all directions, and being marked by a close approximation of the transverse stripes. R