134 CAUDATE NERVE VESICLES. The ordinary or prevailing form of these elements is that of a globular vesicle. So soft and compressible are they, however, that a good deal of diversity of shape s manifest in them, by reason of the compression they suffer as they lie packed together in situ. Hence some are spherical, others ovoidal, or ellipsoidal. In some vesicles we find, external to the nucleus, particles of a coarser kind, which are accumulated in a mass, frequently of a semilunar form. These are pigment granules ; their presence gives a dark colour to a portion of the vesicle. Sometimes we find two groups of pigment granules in one vesicle. They are usually of a reddish or yellowish brown colour. Another form of nerve-vesicle is characterised by one or more tail-like processes fig. £6. a. A large caudate nerve-vesicle, with diverging and branching processes, some of which, b, are seen to pass off into extremely minute filaments. These seem to bear a very close resem- blance to the central part of a tubular fibre, c, which is prolonged some way beyond the broken edge of its tubular membrane and white substance, d. At e, are some small nerve-vesicles, stellate in form, doubtless from numerous processes given off from them. /, Several extremely small nerve-tubes, some of which are varicose. This figure exhibits the great variety of size of the vesicles and tubes, a, Is from the posterior horn of the grey matter of the spinal marrow, and is magnified only 120 diameters, while the vesicles and tubes at e, from the grey matter of the lower end of the cord, are magnified 300 diameters, d, Is also from the spinal marrow, and is magnified 200 diameters. extended from it, and to such nerve-vesicles we may apply the term caudate. They possess the nucleus and the nucleolus, as in the more simple form; and contain one or more masses of pigment, which are often of very considerable size. Both the vesicles and their caudate processes vary greatly in size and shape. The largest nerve-vesicles are found among those of this kind. Sometimes there is but a single process from a vesicle ; or there may be two, proceeding from opposite sides ; or there may be several, extending in various directions. There is great difference in the shape of these caudate vesicles, as may be observed in figs. 55 and 56, where different varieties of them have been represented. In point of structure, the caudate processes are exceedingly delicate and finely granular, like the interior of the vesicle, with which