137 ON THE SKIN, NAILS AND HAIRS. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. I, Chapter XIV, pp. 406 to 426. Published April, 1845. Intimate Structure of the Cutis. The white and yellow fibrous elements of the areolar tissue are both much modified, to constitute the framework of this layer; and in different parts of the skin, as might be expected, they exist in different proportions, and in some variety of arrangement. These varieties are not yet made out in all their particulars ; but we believe we may state in general, that, where great extensibility, with elasticity, is required, the elastic element predominates (as in the skin of the axilla); and that where, on the contrary, resistance is demanded, the cutis is chiefly composed of a dense interweaving of the inelastic white element (as in the sole of the foot). But in all situations the meshes are very close, and the quantity of the mixed fibrous tissues very great, as compared with almost any other part of the body. (' Ph. A. & P. of Man,' Chap. III.) ~ * The fibres of the yellow element take a generally horizontal course, and lie in multiplied series over one another, branching at very frequent intervals, to join those above, below, and on either side. The resulting meshes are open on all sides, but are most flattened in a direction parallel with the general surface. They are more or less lozenge-shaped, and vary in size not only with the region of the skin in which they are examined, but according to their immediate relations with the sudorific ducts, and other cutaneous appendages which traverse them. This element of the cutis can be easily studied on thin vertical slices, moistened with acetic acid, which acts on other parts, leaving it entire, and, as it were, isolated. (Pig. 77.) The thick and abundant fibres of the white element twine in great profusion among the interstices just described, but what their precise attachments are it is difficult to determine. They accompany all the larger vessels and nerves, and invest the several small glands with a loose capsule. The gelatine, which may be obtained in considerable quantity from the skin, is derived from this latter part of the cutis, and it is probably this element also which is