MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 37 at its opposite ends. It would almost appear as if the contractile force of the spot were limited ; able only to engage a certain amount of the mass; so that? as fresh portions were assumed on the one hand, some were relinquished on the other. But the occasion of the oscillation would seem to be the traction of neighbouring points, also active, striving to acquire additional strias ; for, as before observed, the cut extremities are always the first to contract, and being thereby rendered thicker, are in some measure restrained from approaching each other by the mica or glass, with which it is necessary to cover the object. Be that as it may, the movements are such as to convey the idea of opposing forces struggling for the mastery, and they do not cease till the whole fasciculus is contracted to less than half its original length. They prove incontestably, that the agency in question, whatever it may be, operates primarily on the individual segments of the fibrilke. When a contraction is very forcible and going on at the same moment at several points of a fasciculus, it may happen, if the pressure on the extremities prevents their approximation, that the intermediate flaccid portions are stretched even to laceration, as seen in fig. 75 from the Frog. This fact may serve to illustrate those remarkable cases of muscular rupture from inordinate action, concerning which much has been written. * In the Skate, the following appearances once presented themselves. Dark waves of contraction, caused by the successive approximation and recession of one side of the discs, began to play backwards and forwards along one margin of the fasciculus. These gradually included the whole breadth of the fasciculus, and then coalesced; permanent rugse at the same time forming in addition, each, about -j^oth inch broad, and including twenty or thirty of the approximated strias. Fig. 98 exhibits these alterations. A contracted fasciculus has often a somewhat uneven or undulated margin, which is sometimes occasioned by very slight irregularities or puckerings of the fibrillse, but more frequently by a transverse wrinkling of the sarcolemma, which, when this is extensively separated by fluid from the fibrillae, is almost a necessary consequence of the shortening of the fasciculus. I have not seen this in contracted fasciculi that have not been wetted, and, therefore, conclude the sheath to be endowed with the requisite elasticity for accommodating it to the varying form of its contents. But where bullae are developed, the folds thus occasioned are strongly marked, and have * See J. L. Petit and M. Roulin, ' Majendie's Journal,' vol. i., p. 295. [I have just been indebted to the kindness of Mr. Busk, surgeon to the Dreadnought Hospital Ship, for an opportunity of examining specimens of muscle, ecchymosed and ruptured by spasmodic action during a rapidly fatal tetanus. We found them to present appearances of disintegration, such as are frequently seen in fasciculi inordinately contracted under the treatment above described, and this to so great an extent, that in many parts neither transverse nor longitudinal strias could be discerned, but only a confused mass of primitive component particles, held together by the sarcolemma, as seen in a portion of fig. 37, from the Prog. Other muscles from the same subject, which had been free from spasm, were in all respects natural.— November, 1840.]