PASSIVE AND ACTIVE CONTRACTION. 266 But, in this instance, the retraction would appear to be in part caused by an active contraction excited by the stimulus of the injury. It has also been styled tonicity. The passive contraction of muscles continually opposes their elongation by the action of antagonists, and restores them when that action ceases. It is that which accom- modates them to an attitude artificially given, when no muscular effort is required to maintain it. When no active contraction is present in a limb, the passive contraction remains, and being brought to a state of equilibrium in all the muscles by their mutual antagonism, the limb is said to be at rest. This is the general condition during sleep. The passive contractility of muscles, therefore, is being ever exerted, without being attended by fatigue ; there seems no good reason for supposing it to be a property different from active contractility; it is rather the necessary condition of that property, in its passive or unstimulated state. Passive contraction is a vital act, for it ceases with the rigor mortis. Active Contraction.—This is the form of contraction which is attended with those manifestations of power or force that specially characterize muscle. It is always excited by a stimulus, and is always exerted in opposition to another force within the body, which it is able more or less completely to master. The opposing force is generally the passive contractility of antagonist muscles, but it may be the elasticity of parts, or, in the case of hollow muscles, the resistance of their own contents. Active contraction is partial in extent and duration. It requires intervals of rest, being attended with exhaustion of the power which produces it, which exhaustion in the voluntary muscles is attended with the sensation termed muscular fatigue. 3. Of the Differences between the Minute Movements of Muscle in Passive and Active Contraction.—In Passive Contraction.—It is, perhaps, impossible in the higher animals to observe the nature of the microscopic movements occurring during the passive shortening of a muscle ; but in the lower and smaller forms of life this may sometimes be accomplished. It may always appear doubtful, however, whether any contraction that may be here witnessed be entirely of the passive kind, and con- sequently the movements here noticed are not worthy of implicit reliance. But it is more easy and quite as satisfactory to bring a muscle under inspection, which is still in situ and in equilibrium with its antagonists; in such, contractile force is still present, though its effects are neutralized. This may be done in various small animals; perhaps the tail of small Fish or of the Tadpole of the common Frog is the best adapted for the purpose. In the latter, when deprived of its thick tegument, I have succeeded in gaining such a view, and have found the contraction to be quite uniform throughout, the transverse stripes being stationary and equidistant. This is nothing more than might have been expected on a priori grounds. The contraction being the effect of the passive exercise of the property shared equally by all parts of the tissue, would be equal in equal masses, and as the elementary fibres are of precisely equal width and substance from end to end, no part of them could predominate in action, as long as no special stimulus was applied. It may be concluded, therefore,