157 ON THE SENSE OF TASTE. From ' The Physiological Anatomy and Physiology of Man,' Vol. I, Chapter XV, pp. 434 to 448. Published April, 1845. The sense of taste is subservient to the nutritive function by guiding us in the discrimination of the qualities of our food, and is therefore appropriately situated in the mouth, the antechamber to the digestive canal. The food being delayed more or less in this cavity, is brought, by the movements to which it is exposed, into intimate and varied contact with the surface ; and, its properties being ascertained while it is still under voluntary control, we are able to reject it or to propel it onwards, according to the impression produced on the nerves of taste. The mucous membrane of the tongue, as the principal seat of the sense, will now demand description. The muscular apparatus of this organ, though increasing its powers of taste, relates chiefly to its employment in the processes of mastication and deglutition In the mucous membrane of the tongue we find a chorion, a papillary structure, and an epidermis or epithelium, all corresponding, in essential characters, with the same constituents of the skin. The chorion, or cutis, is tough, but thinner and less dense than in most parts of the skin : it receives the insertion of all the intrinsic muscles of the tongue, which send up their fibres to it in small separate bundles, so that the surface of the tongue is exceedingly mobile, even in its minute portions, and its powers as an organ of touch are thereby much exalted. The termination of the muscular fibres in the fibrous tissue of the chorion can be well seen in thin vertical sections. The chorion contains the ramifications of the vessels and nerves from which the papillary structure is supplied. Both the arteries and veins form plane plexuses, open on all sides, like those of the skin, and respectively connected with the vessels of the papilke above them. The papillary structure has, in general, this peculiarity, that it is not concealed under the epithelium, but stands out freely from the surface, like the villi of the intestinal tube, occasioning the familiar roughness of the tongue. This, however, is to be taken with the limitations hereafter to be detailed. y 2