260 CONTRACTILITY OF MUSCLE. meet the objection by any decided proof to the contrary. It would be very difficult to induce oft-repeated contractions in a paralysed muscle by any other than electrical agency ; but the refutation of this view will be found in the general arguments against the identity of the nervous influence with any form of electricity. Viewed by the light of this and other allied experiments, the variation found in the state of nutrition of paralysed limbs is easily accounted for. In cerebral paralysis the muscles are still subject to contraction in obedience to reflected stimuli through the spinal cord, while in the complete spinal palsy and that arising from disease of the nerves, they are never excited to action; whence their firmness in the former compared with their impoverishment in the latter case. In the paralysis of the lower limbs so graphically described by Pott, and resulting from disease propagated to the cord from the vertebras, the early symptoms are those of irritation, and consist rather of irregular contractions, probably in part reflex, and which the patient is unable to control, than of any diminution of actual power in the limbs ; and it is constantly remarked that in this stage there is no loss of size in the affected parts, but rather that in the midst of a general emaciation consequent on the patient's confinement, these limbs retain their fulness, and even appear hypertrophied. Should the malady advance to disorganization of the cord, the muscles cease to be excited. They become dead to all stimuli except such as are topically applied, and being never so stimulated, soon become flabby and wasted. Thus it would appear that the spinal cord in cerebral paralysis serves to keep up contractility in the muscles, not by supplying them with it, as from a source, but by exhausting them through the contractions it excites. It is not a charger but an exhauster through its nerves; and as exhaustion alternating with re-accumulation is necessary for healthy nutrition, and healthy nutrition induces contractility, it becomes in such cases an important though indirect agent in the maintenance of that property in the muscles. There can be little doubt that if muscles completely cut off from the nervous centres were submitted to galvanic agency at frequent intervals, they would not decrease in size, and might, if already atrophied, be even augmented in bulk and power; and perhaps some of the vaunted successes obtained by galvanism and electricity may be explained in this manner. There appears to be no argument nor established fact on the other side which invalidates the experiment of Dr. Eeid, or which does not admit of being explained on the ground which that experiment substantiates; and the whole question is still further cleared by the singular circumstance that has been often adduced, that foetuses born without brain or cord may have their muscular system developed and active. If, to what has now been advanced, there be added the evidence before adduced, that this is a property inherent in the very structure of muscle, and that it is capable of being exerted therein independently of all communication with other tissues, it will probably no longer remain doubtful that it is a property belonging to muscle as a tissue, and that it only requires for its perfection that nutrition should be perfect.