268 ACTIVE CONTRACTION. margin they interfere most irregularly with one another, dragging one another as though striving for the mastery, the larger ones continually overcoming the smaller, then subsiding as though spent, stretched again by new spots of contraction, and again, after a short period of repose, engaged in their turn by some advancing wave: this is the first stage of the phenomenon. (See fig. 302.) The contractions increase in number and extent, and gradually engage the whole substance of the fibre. There is still the same struggle, the same alternate action and repose in individual parts, but as the contractions by degrees predominate, the ends of the fibre are drawn more and more near (intermediate portions by their contraction receiving some of the pressure), until at last the whole fragment is reduced to a third of its original length, and stiffened with the rigor mortis. The muscular tissue in these animals is very tough, but where it is more fragile, as in the Frog, it may give way in the intervals between spots of contraction, and become ruptured and disorganized in various degrees.* In Fishes I have seen a succession of phenomena similar to what has been described in the Crab; waves of Shovring a spot of contraction (6) and the sarcolemma elevated in the form of bullae by the expressed water (a). ■ FIG. 302.—BOEDER OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF A YOUNG CRAB. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. contraction advancing and receding, but gradually augmenting in bulk, till the whole fibre was finally contracted. (See fig. 303.) In all these examples, as long as the ends of the fragment are fixed, and will not yield to the convellent force, that force is seen to be exerted in a momentary manner in successive portions of the mass. In proportion as they yield to it, the resistance which enabled the contraction of new parts to stretch those from which it was receding is removed, and the appearances of contraction remain. A distinction is required between the contractile force and the contraction resulting from its exercise. The latter will be permanent,* if no force from without be exerted to obliterate it by stretching, for a contracted muscle has no power of extending itself; there is no repellent force between its molecules. From these phenomena, therefore, it is possible to eliminate the appearances resulting from a subsided force, and to judge of the mode and duration of action of the force itself. Thus sifted, they prove that, even when directly stimulated by water after removal from the body, a muscle contracts in successive portions, never in its totality at once, and that no particle of it is capable of exhibiting an active contraction for more than an instant of time. * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1840, p. 490, pi. xix., fig. 75.