224 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. interstices of the epithelial particles. It is impossible but that the cilia should move these globules along the surface, and discharge them into the pharynx; and it hardly admits of doubt that mucus, morbidly existing on the bronchial membrane, is gradually lifted up by these untiring agents to that region where it excites coughing, and is forcibly expelled by the rush of air. The patient is often conscious of its slow motion upwards, when it is in the form of a pellet and proceeds from an isolated spot. This is remarkably the case too in hsemoptysis, and also in that rare disease the bronchial polypus, where branched tubes of lymph are brought up in this manner. This view of the use of cilia in the mucous system of the higher animals appears to me to merit much attention. I had intended to have considered it under a separate head, but it has been introduced here both in corroboration of the general position as to the nature of secretion, and in illustration of the nature and extent of the special secretion from the ordinary mucous membranes. On the whole I think it may be concluded : 1. That every part of the mucous system, where epithelium exists, secretes. 2. That the secretion differs, in different regions, according to the vital properties of their epithelia; and that these vital properties are usually attended with appreciable varieties of structure. That corresponding varieties of chemical con- stitution co-exist with these is highly probable, though only as yet proved in a few cases. 3. That mucus is the least peculiar of the secretions, yet by no means universal from the mucous membranes, but confined to tracts of comparatively limited superficial extent, chiefly the excretory channels of the glands. In the preceding summary account of the structure, relations, and offices of the mucous system, I have not been able (without interruption to the course of the description) to refer sufficiently to the labours of those anatomists to whom we owe almost all our knowledge of the subject. This deficiency, of which I am very sensible, I shall endeavour in some degree to supply by a brief review of the researches which have led to the more modern and general views on the subject. Passing over the imperfect descriptions of the ancients, we find that when the microscope first became an instrument of anatomical research, the scaly character of the cuticle was recognised by Malpighi and Leeuwenhoeck ; and that the former of these great anatomists had a wonderfully clear insight, considering the period at which he lived, into the close relation that subsists between the glands, mucous membranes, and skin. The labours of the anatomists of the next age were spent with great success upon matters ot detail, particularly on the distribution of the bloodvessels, which Euysch and Lieberkuhn particularly illustrated; and, by the general advance of knowledge, the way was being gradually prepared towards that more philosophical arrange- ment of the tissues of the body, in conformity with their intimate texture and connexions, of which the first example is to be found in the work of