PECULIARITIES OF GLANDS. 211 contribute to form the general surface of the organ have an additional and dense covering of areolar tissue on that surface ; a covering, which has the same relation to the mucous element, as that on the portal aspect; which is continuous with the capsule of Glisson at numerous points ; and which is here developed as a membrane of support, as a nidus for a lymphatic rete, and as a foundation for the peritoneal tunic, that it sustains. The nerves and lymphatic vessels of the interior of the liver, though but little known, are too inconsiderable in point of size to affect the general accuracy of this description. Hence it evidently appears, on what modifications of the elements of the mucous tissue and of those appended to it, the peculiar friability, colour, and other properties of this organ depend. If the " parenchymatous" areolar tissue abounded in this gland to the extent implied in the descriptions of Bichat and some more recent authors, no doubt its toughness would be far greater than it really is. But where an organ is sufficiently screened from injury by its position, where its different parts are so well connected by the continuity of a close network of capillary vessels, and are not required to move on one another, it would be difficult to imagine what purpose a greater development of areolar tissue would serve. In the kidney, the epithelial and vascular elements are in corresponding abundance, the areolar tissue in very small quantity. The general texture, however, is more tough than in the liver, from the universal presence of the basement membrane on the tubes. In the medullary portion, the tubes radiate from the apex towards the base of the cones, and are imbedded in a firm, granular substance, not hitherto described, but which resembles a blastema, and is probably composed of cells. In this substance is also imbedded the capillary plexus surrounding the tubes, as well as the vessels that convey blood to and from this plexus, and take the same direction as the tubes. Hence the firmness and close texture of this part of the kidney as compared with the other, and the facility with which it tears from the apex to the base of the cones. At the base of the cones, the tubes enter the cortical substance and take a course, in sets, towards the surface. The central tubes of each set reach the surface and then recline inwards and become convoluted. But the others bend down one after another and become convoluted before reaching the surface. All at length terminate in the Malpighian bodies, which lie among the convolutions. The arteries and veins also take a general course from the hilus towards the surface. Hence, on teariDg the cortical part of the organ, there is a disposition for the laceration to occur in lines continuous with the radii of the medullary cones, and this disposition is less evident as we approach the surface ; but between these lines the torn surface is very uneven, where it is formed by the contorted tubes. The cortical part has less of the intertubular matrix than is met with in the medullary cones. In the kidney there is a peculiarity of the highest interest in the relative situation