BLOODVESSELS. 201 Bloodvessels. These may be said to be universally present under the simple mucous mem- brane, with the exception perhaps of the cornea, where vessels, in the normal state have not yet been demonstrated. The capillaries, in their simplest form, appear to be arranged as a plane network, such as that of the rectum of the Frog (fig. 285). The interstices of this network vary much in size and shape in different localities. The most copious supply of blood distributed to any such membrane is that afforded to the air-cells of the lungs in all animals. Here this plane capillary plexus has areolae scarcely exceeding the diameter of the vessels themselves. Where the membrane they supply is folded, however irregularly, they follow its surface, and hence result many varieties in their arrangement and inosculations. It even seems to be for the purpose of gaining a great freedom of inosculation between the capillaries that the extraordinary complexity has been given to many parts of the simple membrane, especially in the secreting glands. For many foldings from somewhat distant parts of the membrane are there brought into immediate proximity to on another, and are supplied by the same or closely connected vessels. This is remarkably exemplified in the testis, kidney, and liver. The capillary system of all these, as well as of other solid glands, may be styled a solid plexus, being extended in every direction, and presenting areolae of nearly equal size in whatever plane a section of it be made. The liver presents the most perfect instance of such a solid plexus, and in it the vessels are of unusual dimensions, apparently to allow of the more free transit of the blood, which is here propelled feebly by the vis a tergo acting through the capillaries that form the portal vein. Though it has not been so described, I believe, from injections that I have made, that the whole organ is one such plexus, and that if it were possible to abstract from it all vessels larger than capillaries, and to leave these entire, all the lobules would still be connected together by capillary channels identical with those of which they themselves principally consist. Hence the lobules of the liver are not definitely bounded on all sides by a capsule of any kind, but here and there blend by continuity of substance with those adjoining them. The larger portion of their contour is, however, well defined by the ultimate twigs of the portal vein, and of the ducts derived from the lobule, as so clearly proved by Mr. Kieknan in his well-known paper. The size of the capillaries varies much in different parts of the mucous system. In the liver they are very capacious, always one-third wider than the diameter of the blood globule, and sometimes nearly double. In the lungs they are almost equally great. In the intestinal villi also they are of large dimensions. In these organs they form a network on the inner surface of the basement membrane, and are supplied by an artery that ascends in the axis of the villus. The veins from this network are generally two, one 'on each side. This plexus of the villi is strikingly contrasted by 2 e 2