THE COCHLEAR XERVES. 181 the eye to distinct vision at different distances under the guidance of the will, so it is not impossible that the cochlear muscle may have a voluntary adjusting power, though its precise mode of action as a part of an acoustic apparatus may still remain obscure. On the whole, however, we are more disposed to regard this very interesting structure as having a preservative office, as being placed there to defend the cochlear nerves from undue vibrations of sound, in a way analogous to that in which the iris protects the retina from excessive light. These nerves are acted on principally by vibrations brought through the osseous part of the cochlea, and it is probable that the arrange- ment of the scalse is one designed to allow of protective movements of the lamina spiralis by muscular action, under a stimulus reflected from impressions on the auditory nerve. The capillaries of the ciliary muscle are derived from vessels meandering over the walls of the scahe before entering it, and those from above and below do not anastomose across the line of attachment of the membranous zone, thus indicating that the continuation of this zone enters as a plane of tendon into the interior of the muscle, dividing it into two parts, and receiving the fibres in succession. The scaLse of the cochlea are lined with a nucleated membrane, or epithelium, which is very delicate and easily detached, usually more easily seen in the vestibular than in the tympanic scala, and in many animals containing scattered pigment. Of the Cochlear Nerves. These enter from the internal auditory meatus, through the spirally-arranged orifices at the base of the modiolus, and turn over in succession into the canals a, Twig of cochlear nerve in the modiolus, its iibres diverging and reuniting in h, a band in the plexus taking a direction parallel to the zones. From this other twigs radiate, and again and again branch and unite as far as the margin of the osseous zone c, where they terminate. FIG. 141.—PLEXIFOKM ARRANGEMENT OF THE COCHLEAR NERVES SEEN IN THE BASAL COIL OF THE LAMINA SPIRALIS, TREATED WITH HYDROCHLORIC ACID. FROM THE SHEEP. MAGNIFIED 30 DIAMETERS. There are no ganglion globules in this plexus, which consists of tubular fibres. hollowed in the osseous zone of the spiral lamina, close to its tympanic surface. In this distribution, the nervous bundles subdivide and reunite again and again, forming