MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 33 specimens the tendinous and muscular structures are readily distinguishable from one another, and the line of demarcation between them is often so definitely in view, that no doubt can be entertained as to the genuineness of the appearances. The tendon seems to transmit a small detachment of its fibrils to each primitive fasciculus, proportioned to its size, which, arriving near its extremity, expands towards it, and is immediately lost by direct continuity with it (figs. 68, 69). The fasciculus does not commence of a taper form, but is of the same bulk at its extremity, as in any other part of its length, and the strife begin from the very extremity of the fasciculus. That is, all its fibrillas are of equal length, and terminate on a level. The beads or segments, too, are uniform in number on every fibrilla of the same fasciculus, or, in other words, the terminal disc is a perfect one. The sarcolemma also continues to invest it to its extreme end, and there seems to terminate abruptly. It follows, therefore, that the extremity of a fasciculus, if a direct view of it could be obtained, would present the same parts as a transverse section, viz., the extremities of fibrillse inclosed by a ring which would be the terminating margin of the sarcolemma. I believe it to be to all these parts that the tendinous threads proceed and become fixed, for the following reasons:— 1st. Such a fasciculus being regarded lengthwise, an uninterrupted clear line is traceable along its edge, and beyond its extremity, where it becomes continuous with the margin of the tendinous bundle. 2nd. The abrupt line of demarcation between the muscle and the tendon is visible throughout, as the focus is made to descend through the object, so that as successive muscular fibrillae are brought into view with their striae, successive fibrils of the tendon also appear. In Crustacea and Insects, in which the muscle is united to hard tendinous or analogous surfaces, the fasciculi terminate unequivocally by a corresponding surface, at the margin of which the sarcolemma finds attachment. I have seen this very plainly in certain insects, as the legs of the Water Scorpion (Nepa cinerea). But the class of Insects will furnish examples of the clearest kind in direct confirmation of the view already taken of this subject in Fishes, and, therefore, showing with how much propriety we may probably venture to extend the description there given to the higher orders, whose primitive fasciculi have so striking a similitude in every essential particular to the same structure in the lower. In fig. 70 are giveu the appearances of two fasciculi out of many similar ones, taken from the leg of a common Blue Bottle Fly (Musca vomitoria). These are detached from one another and each has united to it the small set of tendinous fibrillse (here stiff and somewhat horny, but divisible into exceedingly minute threads), serving to prolong it to its fixed attachment. In these beautifully delicate parts, the following circumstances may be observed:—(1st) the tendon expands to fix itself to the extremity of the fasciculus, and there abruptly terminates, the line of union being definitely notable. 2nd. The extremity of the fasciculus being with certainty apparent, has precisely F