LOCALIZATION" OF VARIETIES OF TASTE. 169 may possess both capacities. Taste, however, it is evident, demands a more delicate external apparatus in connexion with its nerves than touch; so that touch might be exercised with an apparatus adapted to taste, though not in all cases the reverse. As far, therefore, as regards the simple papillae at the base of the tongue, and those covering the circumvallate and fungiform varieties, it seems impossible, in our ignorance of any anatomical distinction between the nerve-fibres of the two endow- ments, to decide whether the two senses are or are not resident together in the same papillae. But there are good grounds for supposing that the conical or filiform papillae are not designed for taste. They are most largely developed in a part of the tongue where taste is feeblest, and are there intermixed with a number of fungiform papillae sufficient to account for the little that exists. Their structure and position, as already remarked, lead to the same conclusion. It may be added that, in the Lion, where these papillae are capped with spines, so thick and rigid as totally to incapacitate them for taste, they are furnished at the base with an additional tuft of soft secondary papillae, that seem specially adapted for the latter function. It is possible that certain soft papillae, which we have frequently seen springing up about the base of the less developed filiform ones in the human tongue, may contribute, in a similar manner, to the sense of taste. Are the Varieties of Taste referable to the Varieties of the Papilla? ? It has been imagined that the differences of form met with in the papillae might be in some special relation to the leading varieties of tastes, as the bitter, sweet, sour, &c.; but the careful experiments of Horn on this interesting point can scarcely be considered as tending to establish such a correspondence. The difficulties, however, of experimenting are so great, that neither can they be said to disprove it: for a considerable extent of impression is necessary to ensure a perception sufficiently definite to be relied on; and the different papillae are for the most part too much intermingled to admit of several of a similar kind being tested apart from others. The most that can be deduced from Hokn's observations is, that more than three-fourths of the substances he applied to the circumvallate papillae, including, we suppose, the simple papillae we have described on the neighbouring surface, excited a bitter taste, or one in which a bitter was associated with some other, especially an alkaline or saline flavour; and that on the region where the filiform papillae abound the majority of substances tasted acid, or acid with a mixture of bitter or sweet. In regard to the fungiform variety no decided results were obtained. These facts will perhaps help to explain the effect of the act of swallowing in modifying and heightening flavours, since the food is much more completely brought into contact with the papillae on the base of the tongue during that act.