242 THE SARCOLEMMA. I once met with a singular demonstration of the existence and properties of the sarcolemma, in finding it filled with numerous trichinae (fig. 296), which had taken the place of the contractile material, the sheath preserving all its characteristic baauty and transparency.* I discovered this remarkable membrane in Insects, Crustacea, and all the tribes of Vertebrata, in 1839, not knowing that Professor Schwann had previously described it in connection with the development of muscle in Insects and Fish.t He believes it to be a persistent portion of the membrane of the original cells of development, united to form a single tube, the septa at first resulting from their apposition having been absorbed. This opinion is undoubtedly ingenious; but, as I have yet no data from which to judge of its correctness, I neither admit nor deny it. I have seen the sarcolemma in human muscle as early as the period of birth, and have traced, it at all epochs, to old age, when the atrophy of its contents has often seemed to render it I- a, Point at which the sarcolemma is burst. 6, hernia of the sarcous mass, with distor- tion of the longitudinal and transverse lines, c, A smaller hernia. Corpuscles are seen scattered through- out the mass, and some detached ones, d, are represented below. Their average dia- meter is oue-thousandth of an English inch. FIG. 295.—PART OF AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE FROM THE HUMAN SUBJECT, TREATED WITH PHOSPHORIC ACID. more easy of detection. It also remains in muscles wasted by disease or accident at other periods of life, and no difference appears to occur in it whether the specimens examined are pale or dark-coloured, firm or flaccid. It is thickest in those classes that possess the thickest elementary fibres, viz., in Crustacea and Fish, and so thin in Birds, whose fibres are the smallest, that it is often difficult to detect it at all. With regard to the use which this singular structure may serve in the economy of the organ, our present ignorance of the manner in which motion is excited renders any explanation that might be offered of doubtful value. But it has appeared probable to me, first, that it may act as a mechanical protector and isolator of the contractile tissue enclosed within it; secondly, that its exquisitely smooth external surface may facilitate those rapid minute motions of neighbouring fibres, one against another, which may be shown to occur in contracting muscle {see " Muscular Motion "); * Auct., loc. cit., p. 480, pi. xvii., figs. 41-5. t 1 Mikros. Untersuch.,' p. 105.