161 THE FUNGIFORM PAPILLAE. epithelium, concealing a multitude of simple papillae, in all respects similar to those just described. About the point where the two lines of circumvallate papillse meet, there is usually one with the fissure so large and deep as to have received the name of foramen caecum. The central part is frequently small, or elongated and thrown on one side A, Fungiform papilla, showing the secondary papillae on its surface, and at a its epithelium covering them over. Magnified 35 diameters. Another, with the capillary loops of its simple papillae injected, a, Artery. v, Vein. Tbe groove around the base of some of the fungiform papilla? is here repre- sented, as well as the capillary loops, c, c, of some neighbouring simple papillse. Magnified 18 diameters. FIG. 98. of the foramen. In the specimen next represented (fig. 97), this is shown covered with secondary papillse, having all the characters of those above mentioned. In its interior we failed to detect any nerves provided with white substance. In this region of the tongue fissures and papillae of irregular size and shape are often met with, and mucous glands are disseminated beneath the surface. The fungiform papillae (fig. 94, b, and fig. 98) are scattered singly among the filiform papillae, chiefly on the sides and tip of the tongue, and very sparingly in Various forms of the conical compound papilla?, deprived of their epithe- lium :—a, b, and especially c, are the best marked, and were provided with the stiffest and longest epithelium; their simple papilla? are more acu- minated, d, Approaches the fungi- form variety; e, /, come near the simple papilla?. Magnified 20 dia- meters. Mm M J FIG 99. the middle of the dorsal region. They are usually narrower at their base than summit, where they are from -^5-th to y^-th of an inch in diameter. Like those last described, they are clothed with simple papillae; and their investing epithelium is so thin, that the blood, seen through it, gives them a red colour, usually sufficient to distinguish them from the filiform ones among which they lie. They contain nerve-tubes, having a loop-like arrangement.