212 PECULIARITIES OF GLANDS. of the vascular and mucous tissues, which seems to have reference to the peculiar function of the gland. There are two systems of capillary vessels, the former of which, or that in connection with the renal artery, perforates the mucous membrane at the extremity of each tube, and lies on the outer surface of the membrane, that is, bare and loose within the dilated extremities, which thus form the capsules of the Malpighian bodies.* The common submucous areolar membrane of the kidney, or that forming its capsule, is in most animals chiefly composed of ordinary areolar tissue with close meshes. But where a more resisting covering is required, as in the Lion, this areolar tissue is modified; the white fibrous element predominates so much as to give the capsule the glistening aspect of an aponeurosis. This is an admirable example of the transition from areolar tissue into white fibrous tissue, and helps to show the true nature and relations of the tunica albuginea of the testis. The testis, compared with the liver and kidney, present several modifications of the elementary tissues. The basement membrane is much stouter than in the latter gland, the tubes are larger, and their convolutions more loosely joined by any intervening substance. There is no appearance of an intertubular substance except towards the corpus Highmorianum, and the principal connecting medium between the tubes seems to be the vessels, which are less numerous than in the glands already mentioned, and form a looser network. The secreting tubules for these reasons admit of being very easily separated from one another, and unravelled to great lengths. The epithelial element of the testis constitutes a lining of considerable thickness, and is highly remarkable (see fig. 274). Though no seminal animalcules have been hitherto seen in the interior of the particles while still attached to the basement membrane of the tubes, yet from recent researches, and especially from those of Wagner, on the phases of their development, it is rendered highly probable that these singular moving bodies originate in the epithelial particles, as one of the results of their natural evolution. The loose aggregation of the tubules of the testis makes a firm external capsule necessary, and where, as in man, this gland is much exposed to injury by its situation, a further protection of this kind is made requisite. Hence the firm and unyielding character of the tunica albuginea in Man, the contrast of which with the thin covering of the large but well protected testicle of the Porpoise (for example), is well worthy of attention. In many large animals, the tunica albuginea, like the aponeurotic capsule of the Lion's kidney, is traversed more or less completely by large veins which it thus serves to support. The tunica albuginea consists almost solely of white fibrous tissue, and represents the submucous areolar tissue of the mucous system. The peculiarities of the salivary glands result from the predominance of their epithelial element over the others. The ducts terminate in vesicles, very similar in the figure they assume to those of the lungs, but nearly filled up with epithelial * 1 Phil. Trans.,' 1842, Part I.