258 CONTRACTILITY OF MUSCLE. exhauster of muscular irritability) be brought into contact with it, it is seen to absorb the fluid and to be excited to contractions, which commence at the surface. The same thing is frequently to be met with under a different form. A particle of foreign matter, as a hair or piece of dust, may be included by design or accident in the field so as to touch, the side of the fibre at a single point. When this happens, the fibre will often exhibit a contraction so plain and so limited to the point touched, as to give unequivocal proof of its being the result of the irritation of pressure. These interesting phenomena may be observed more or less satisfactorily in all animals whose fibres retain their irritability for a sufficient length of time after removal from the body, and the Crab and Lobster will be found the most favourably adapted for the purpose. In many Eeptiles and Fishes, also, the steps occur slowly enough to be adequately scrutinized. The facts in question can admit only of one explanation if it be conceded that the muscular element has been here separated from the nervous; and certainly that separation has been effected unless the nervous tubules send off from their terminal loops a set of fibrils which penetrate the sarcolemma and diffuse themselves through the contractile material within; a supposition [for which there exists at present no foundation in the observations of the most diligent investigators of the subject. They will, therefore, probably, be regarded as conclusive proof that contractility is a property inherent in the very structure of muscle, and capable of being excited to action independently of the immediate instrumentality of nerves. The determination of this point must have a very important bearing on the question of the nature and cause of contraction, into which no small confusion lias been introduced by the attempts to account for that phenomenon by various hypotheses of electrical action. That one, especially, which aims at establishing an attraction between distant points of the fibres where the nerve crosses them (the " zig-zag hypothesis" of Prevost and Dumas), and which, with the wrongly interpreted facts on which it principally rests, has had an immense, though sometimes unperceived, influence, ever since it was broached, on the whole question of contraction, is entirely refuted by the facts above-mentioned. There are some others, sprung out of this, which do not here require more than a passing allusion. 2. Source of Contractility: whence derived?—This important question, like the last, is debated up to the present day, but seems at length to have become disenthralled of certain loose hypotheses which have long interfered with its settlement. The discussion may be limited to such particulars as seem to be the most conclusive. It may be observed that the contractility and development of muscle, other things being the same, are always proportionate to one another. All causes interfering with development diminish contractility. Thus muscles become atrophied and weak by disuse, by lessening their supply of blood, by cutting off their connection with the central part of the nervous system. They are, on the contrary, augmented both in size and power by active use, during which both the vascular and nervous