141 THE CUTICLE. of the grooves on the outer surface of the cuticle, where the shallow intervals between the individuals of a pair are not even visible at all, being lost by the thickness of the superimposed substance. Such is the exactness of the impression or mould of the papillary structure which the under-surface of the epidermis presents, that it furnishes an excellent test of the amount and complication of the former structure in different regions of the skin. This will be seen by comparing figs. 79 and 80; the latter of which, taken from the cuticle of the leg, represents the shallow depressions into which the few dwarf papillary elevations of the cutis in that part have been received. The gradations of size in the papillary structure can be everywhere admirably traced in this way ; and will be found to correspond accurately with the account of the relative acuteness of the sense of touch in different parts, deduced from experiments, which will be subsequently given. The papillae are of an average length, in man, of x^otn °f an incn 5 at their base, where they spring from the cutis, they measure about g-^oth of an inch in diameter, and they taper off to a slightly rounded point. They are semi-transparent and flexible ; but .fSiHs „ • **** Under-surface of the cuticle, from the leg:— a, Small creases or furrows, b. Shallow de- pressions for the papillary structure. c, Epithelium of sudorifei*ous ducts, corres- ponding to those in fig. 79. Magnified 30 diameters. fig. 80. sufficiently firm in texture to resist maceration long, and not readily to admit of being detached from the cutis. Viewed, when fresh, with a high microscopic power, their outline is definite and sharp, and there is good reason to suppose it formed of an unbroken expansion of the homogeneous basement membrane already spoken of Within this it is difficult to distinguish any special tissue, except by artificial modes of preparation. A fibrous structure, however, is apparent, having a more or less vertical arrangement: and with the help of solution of potass, filaments of extreme delicacy, which seem to be of the elastic kind, are generally discoverable in it. Injection of the bloodvessels demonstrates the existence of a small arterial twig derived from the arterial plexus of the cutis, entering at the base, advancing up the interior of the papilla, and subdividing into two or more capillary vessels, according to the size of the particular organ. These, after forming small loops, reunite either at the base of the papilla, or in the subjacent texture, into small veins, which empty their blood into the venous plexus of the cutis. The capillaries of the smaller papillae frequently join with those of the fat-vesicles that lie beneath. The vascularity of the papillae is such, that their presence and relative size may be determined simply by the u 2