239 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. which was already in type when the paper ' On Fibre' was read) demands a brief notice. The paper, of which it forms part, might perhaps have been more explicitly entitled, "On the double spiral structure of the organic world;" for, in it, the doubly-spiral flat filament, giving the appearance of transverse strise to voluntary muscle, is discovered to exist in the interior of the blood-corpuscles of all animals, and " apparently in every tissue in the body. The author enumerates a great variety of organs in which he has observed the same kind of filaments." "And if the author's view of identity in structure between the larger and the smaller filaments be correct, it follows that spirals are much more general in plants themselves than has been hitherto supposed ; spirals would thus appear, in fact, to be as universal as a fibrous structure." " Valentin had previously stated, that in plants all secondary deposits take place in spiral lines. In the internal structure of animals, spirals have heretofore seemed to be wanting, or very nearly so. Should the facts recorded in this memoir, however, be established by the researches of other investigators, the author thinks the question in future may perhaps be, where is the 'secondary deposit' in animal structure, which is not connected with the spiral form ? The spiral in animals, as he a 0 FIG. 291.— ELEMENTARY FIBRES FROM THE PECTORAL MUSCLE OF A FCETAL CALF ABOUT TWO MONTHS AFTER CONCEPTION, SHOWING THE CORPUSCLES AT a, a, a. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. conceives he has shown, is in strictness not a secondary formation, but the most primary of all; and the question now is, whether it is not precisely so in plants." As these speculations profess to be grounded solely on observations of particular structures, of which muscle is one, I shall make no apology for applying my few remarks solely to the account of this structure, which is all that can properly be considered here. A renewed examination of this tissue has confirmed, fully and decisively to my own mind, the account I gave of it in 1840, and which was the result of two years' study. 1. I find that when the natural and ready cleavage happens to be into fibrillse (and I do not pretend to explain why this cleavage should be at one time into fibrillae and at another time into discs, I only know the fact), these solitary and isolated fibriUse do not present any such central longitudinal groove, as Dr. Barry describes, to indicate their double nature: that the cross lines are usually transverse, and not oblique, by which I mean that the spaces they bound have a rectangular outline, so sharp and definite, that the mind rests entirely satisfied that there cannot be two opinions concerning them, between any who have examined the object in one of Powell's best microscopes, and with the use of that admirable definer and clarifier of the image, the achromatic condenser. That right angles can be produced by a spiral, 2k