221 FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. is itself the only structure besides the bloodvessels, and does not constitute a lining membrane. The peculiarity in the minute structure of the kidneys, which bears on the present question, is of a kind entirely different from any presented by the liver, and yet tends to establish a similar conclusion. It consists of a special apparatus at the extremity of each secreting tube, apparently designed to furnish a now of water down the canal.# A large quantity of water is evidently required in this secretion as a menstruum for the salts and proximate principles it contains ; and there is no doubt from the analogy of other glands, that the walls of the tubes are the membrane secreting these substances. Now the epithelium constitutes at least -|^ths of their thickness, and is the only part of them with which the water can come into contact. It therefore seems highly probable that this fluid is provided in the manner described, in order to dissolve, out of the epithelial particles, the peculiar principles which they have previously assimilated from the blood. In support of this general position it may be observed further:—1. That the epithelium, which constitutes so large a portion of the true glands, is solid and bulky, usually characterized by its finely granular texture, and in this respect contrasts strongly with that lining the vascular system, which is of extreme delicacy and transparence. The exceptions to this remark confirm its importance. In the air-cells of the lungs, the secretions of which are gaseous and not solid, the epithelium is of great tenuity, and in the Malpighian capsules of the kidney, which appear to serve principally as receptacles for the aqueous fluid that escapes from the bare capillaries within them, this structure is either wanting or consists of perfectly transparent particles. In many intermediate varieties, too, there appears traceable a corre- spondence between the bulk of the nucleated particles and the activity of the secreting function; of which the scaly form in general may be mentioned as an instance. 2. That many peculiar substances are secreted into the interior of nucleated cells, although prevented, by the position of those cells, from escaping from the body. Such are various fats and fixed oils, colouring matters, &c. 3. That this function oi abstracting somewhat from the blood, and elaborating it, seems the most probable one that can be assigned to the thymus and thyroid bodies, the spleen, and supra-renal capsules, and specially to the nucleated particles forming so large a portion of these several structures. On the whole there seems much weight of evidence in favour of the proposition " that secretion is a function very nearly allied to ordinary growth and nutrition: that whereas these are a combination of two functions, assimilation of new particles and rejection of old, the old being reconveyed into the blood, secretion consists in a corresponding assimilation and rejection, but the old particles are at once thrown off from the system without re-entering the blood. According to this view, all effete material received into the blood, from the old substance of the various organs, must be reassimilated by an organized tissue, specially designed for the purpose, viz., * See page 77.