163 TACTILE PAPILLAE OF THE TONGUE. as in their greater stiffness and elasticity; the latter quality depending on the abundant yellow fibrous tissue they contain, and which, with a wavy, almost spiral, character, has a general longitudinal direction. (Fig. 101, c, c, c.) They are commonly found to contain tubular nerve-fibres, which we have on several occasions, but not always, seen to terminate in loops. (Fig. 101, A, b, c.) We have usually found it easiest to distinguish the tubular fibres in the papillae at the front of the tongue. The reader will at once recognise the broad and obvious distinction between the papillas last described and all the other varieties, and will probably surmise, on A, Secondary papilla of the conical class, treated with acetic acid:— a, Its basement membrane, b, Its nerve-tube forming a loop, c, Its curly elastic tissue. The epithelium in this instance is not abundant; but the vertical arrangement of its particles over the apex of the papilla is well seen, d, and illustrates the mode of formation of the hair-like processes described in the text. Magnified 160 diameters. A similar papilla, deprived of its epithelium :—a, Basement mem- brane, b, Tubular fibre, probably forming a loop, but its arch not clearly seen, c, c, Elastic fibrous tissue at its base and in its interior. Magnified 320 diameters. Nerves of a compound papilla near the point of the tongue, in which their loop-like arrangement is distinctly seen. Magnified 160 dia- meters. fig. 101. structural grounds, that they can scarcely share in the reception of impressions which depend on the contact of the sapid material with the papillary tissue. The comparative thickness of their protective covering, the stiffness and brush-like arrangement of their filamentary productions, their greater development in that portion of the dorsum of the tongue which is chiefly employed in the movements of mastication, all evince the subservience of these papilhe to the latter function rather than to that of taste; and it is evident that their isolation and partial mobility on one another must render the delicate touch with which they are endowed more available in directing the muscular actions of the organ. The almost manual dexterity of the organ in dealing with minute particles of food is probably provided for, as far as sensibility conduces to it, in the structure and arrangement of these papilke. z