108 PASSIVE AND ACTIVE CONTRACTION. keen contest can be threaded with any benefit to the student, and we therefore refrain from attempting to follow them. We shall prefer offering him a view of the facts of the subject, as at present known, drawing our conclusions as they arise. The contractility of muscle is exhibited in two varieties of contraction, passive and active. Passive contraction is that which every muscle is continually prone to undergo, by the mere quality of its tissue, as long as it remains in its natural situation in the body. The muscles are ever kept on the stretch by the nature of their position and attachments, and cannot have their ends so approximated, by attitude or otherwise, as that their tendency to shorten themselves shall cease. If, for example, the rectus muscle of the thigh have its extremities brought as near together as can be effected artificially by posture, they would yet be found to approach still nearer on being freed from their attachment to the bones. The stimulus to this contraction may be therefore considered to be that of extension. In fractures and dislocations attended with shortening of the limb, the muscles adapt themselves permanently to their shortened state by virtue of this property. This tendency to contract has been distinguished by the term retractility, ftom its being manifested by the retraction that occurs when the belly of a muscle is cut across. But, in this instance, the retraction would appear to be in part caused by an active contraction excited by the stimulus of the injury. It has been also styled tonicity. It is well exemplified in all those contracted states of muscles which follow paralysis of their antagonists, as when the features are drawn towards the healthy side in hemiplegia. The passive contraction of muscles is continually opposed to their elongation by the active or passive contraction of antagonists, and restores them when that subsides. By it they are accommodated to an attitude artificially given, when no muscular effort is required to maintain it. When no active contraction is present in a limb, the passive contraction remains; and being brought to a state of equilibrium in all the muscles, by their mutual antagonism, the limb is said to be at rest. This is the general condition during sleep, in which the posture assumed by the limbs is determined by the relative power of antagonist muscles: the flexors overcome the extensors, and hence the limbs are bent. Active contraction is attended with those striking manifestations of power that specially characterise muscle. It is always excited by a local or partial stimulus, and is always exerted in opposition to another force within the body, which it is able more or less completely to master. The opposing force is generally the passive contraction of antagonist muscles, as well as the weight or resistance of some part upon which the muscle acts directly; but it may be the elasticity of parts, or, in the case of hollow muscles, the resistance of their own contents. Active contractions are also frequently opposed to one another in the maintenance of a fixed posture. Active contraction is partial and interrupted, both in extent and duration. It requires intervals of rest, being attended with exhaustion of the power which produces it;