FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 222 the epithelium, before it can be eliminated : and all substances thrown off from the system, but designed for an ulterior purpose, must in like manner be assimilated in order to their separation." It places in a strong light a principle of great importance in physiology, the subordination of the bloodvessels and their contents to the tissues among which they are distributed. The function of secretion may therefore be considered to be universal over the mucous system, and its different activity in various situations to be dependent on, as it certainly is closely associated with, differences in the arrangement and structure of the epithelial element. The basement membrane, from being absent from the lobules of the liver, seems a tissue of inferior (perhaps of no) importance in respect of this function, and probably is chiefly subservient, wherever it exists, to the mechanical support of the epithelium. There are probably three ways in which the secretions are finally separated from the body : and these three ways appear to have a reference to the chemical qualities of the product, and to their effete or non-effete character. 1. The particles assimilated into the nucleated cell may be thrown off by virtue of minute chemical changes occurring in it, without the cell itself being altered in form. In this case the nucleated cells will be permanent, or only very slowly renewed, and the secretion will be formed, or at least perfected, by the passage of its elements through the cells. 2. The nucleated cells, as they arrive at their full size, may undergo a slow change in the arrangement of their elements, and gradually disappear by a kind of solution or deliquescence, thus forming the secretion. 3. The nucleated cells, when mature, may be cast off at once, and entire, with their contents. The two last modes are attended with a continual formation of new cells. It would appear that, in general, where the secretion is formed by the rejected chemical elements of the cells (1), or by the destructive solution of the cells (2), it is effete; but that, when formed chiefly by the separation of cells that are mature and contain much organic matter (3), it is destined for ulterior purposes in the ceconomy. Of the first the kidney seems to be an example, of the second the liver, of the third the lining membrane of the stomach. The varieties in the qualities of the products secerned by different portions of the mucous system are only referrible to varieties in the elective powers of the tracts which respectively furnish them, and admit of being most readily explained by the view of the nature of secretion already advanced. It is unnecessary, in this place, to enter on a particular description of the boundaries of these several tracts, and I shall only offer a few observations on the nature and extent of that secretion which has given its name to the structures here treated of. The term mucus, like so many others transmitted from an early period, was originally employed to denote an exaggerated and partial condition, was subsequently applied more loosely and widely in a generic sense, and now requires to be reduced to a more definite application in accordance with that necessity for precision of thought