135 NERVE VESICLES. they distinctly seem to be continuous. Such is the delicacy of these processes, that they readily break off; in general, very close to the vesicle. Sometimes, however, one or more of them may be traced to a considerable distance, and will be found to divide into two or into three branches, which undergo a further subdivision, and give off some extremely fine transparent fibres (fig. 56, b), the connexion of which with the other Blending of the vesicular and fibrous nervous matter in the dentate body of the cerebellum :— a, Ganglion globule, with its nucleus and nucle- olus, b, Nerve-tube, slightly varicose, in close contact with the ganglion globule, b', Smaller nerve-tubes. These parts all lie in a finely granular matrix interspersed with nuclei, c. B, Vesicular and fibrous matter of the laminae of the cerebellum:—a, Ganglion globule, b, Very, minute nerve-tubes traversing a finely granular matrix, in which are numerous rounded nuclei, c. fig. 57. elements of the nervous tissue has yet to be ascertained. It is most probable, however, that they either serve to connect distant vesicles, or else that they become continuous with the axis cylinders of the tubular fibres. In the cerebro-spinal centre, we have found the tissue in the vicinity of the caudate vesicles freely traversed in all directions by numerous very delicate filaments, which seem to be the ramifications of the caudate wi From the Gasserian ganglion of an adult:—a, a, Ganglion globules with their nucleus, nucleated capsule, and pigment, t, Tubular fibres running among the globules in contact with their capsule. g, Gelatinous fibres also in contact with the ganglion globules. Magnified 320 diameters. fig. 58. processes. These often exhibit considerable tenacity and elasticity. The situations from which we may obtain such caudate vesicles as are best suited for examination, are the locus niger in the crus cerebri, and the grey matter of the cerebellum and spinal cord. The nerve-vesicles do not lie in immediate contact with each other. They are either imbedded in a soft, granular matrix, as in the brain, or enveloped in a capsule of nucleated cells, as in the ganglia. {See fig. 54,/, g.) The intimate connexion of this