281 THE PACINIAN BODIES. subcutaneous areolar and adipose tissues of the palm and sole in connection with the cutaneous nerves, as well as more sparingly in the same connection at other parts of the extremities. A few are also met with in the sympathetic plexuses ; and in the Cat in particular they are usually so abundant in the mesentery and omentum, as instantly to arrest the eye when these parts are spread before it. They are here indeed most favourably situated for examination. They are included merely between the duplicature of the transparent peritoneum, can be obtained in great numbers perfectly fresh, and admit of being inspected without the addition of any water or other medium. To the naked eye they here present a beautiful semi-transparent pearly lustre, with a whitish opaline streak along the axis, resulting from the greater proximity and density of the series of internal capsules. In some animals of this species they have appeared to me almost wanting. It is remarkable that in no instance have they been detected in connection with nerves purely motor, nor, it is affirmed, on the fifth nerve or the glosso-pharyngeal. The stalk consists, as has been said, of a production of the neurilemma enclosing a single nerve-tube. It sometimes happens that there are two nerve-tubes, but then there are two corpuscles on the single stem, either in close apposition, or actually enveloped by a few capsules common to both. The nerve-tube in the stalk is undulating, and being accompanied by white fibrous tissue is easily distinguished by its peculiar structure. The artery and vein supplying the corpuscle are also included in the stalk. The channel which the stalk occupies in its passage through the capsules, is conical and comes to a termination at the proximal end of the innermost capsule. It is furnished with a membranous wall, with which the fibrous tissue of the stalk is united on the inside and the several capsules on the other, and by this means the inter- capsular spaces are preserved closed, and their fluid retained. This wall usually presents irregularities of outline, and often a cellular appearance, where the capsules, and especially the inner ones, join it. It is perforated by the minute vessels as they enter some of the intercapsular spaces. (See fig. 482.) The capsules themselves are inelastic membranes, analogous probably to the white fibrous tissue, and furnished with clear transparent nuclei that project chiefly on the inner surface. This is true of all the capsules, but in the outer system or those thicker and stronger ones between which fluid intervenes, there is evidence of a double wall; for in addition to the clear double line which distinguishes all, these present also on their outside, when seen edgeways, a series of dots, which indicate a system of transverse or circular fibres, and, in fact, the corpuscle, when brought into focus, shows no other fibrillation than this transverse one. Almost all appearance of a fibrous texture is removed by acetic acid, so that the yellow or elastic fibre does not appear to form any portion of the capsular membranes. The outermost capsule, indeed, is invested with both the elastic and the inelastic fibres, but these are to be regarded as belonging rather to the areolar tissue in which the corpuscles are 2 p 2