MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 26 * ' Philosophical Transactions,' 1837, p. 378. (primitive fasciculus) is frequently elongated to a point, up to the extreme external surface of which the circular striee are apparent. If the fibre be a solid cylinder," he then asks, "what becomes of the central substance? for it is evidently the external surface that is so attenuated, indicated by the presence of the circular stria?*." This kind of fracture, which in Mammalia not unfrequently occurs during the manipulation, is occasioned, I suppose, by traction on the opposite ends of the fasciculus. The superficial fibrillar do not break so soon as the central ones, because they are supported by the sarcolemma, which has been already shown to be the more extensible structure : this stretches them, and when at length they give way, they are much attenuated, fall together over those in the centre, and come to a rude point. From the same cause the extremity of a broken fasciculus sometimes may present an appearance of a tube. What much corroborates this explanation is, that in such cases the terminal strise are always much widened and distorted. If the fasciculi be placed in water, some of this fluid is absorbed by them, and they undergo an increase in bulk. This may explain why so many authors have differed from the accurate Leeuwenhoek and Pkochaska, and asserted them to be of a cylindrical form, for when thus swollen they lose much of that angular shape, which is so convenient and necessary for close package in the natural condition. I allude to this fact, however, for the purpose of introducing a description of one of the most instructive phenomena connected with this investigation. It regards muscle, not in a passive, but an active state ; and besides exhibiting the condition of the fibrillar during contraction, which for the present I omit noticing, furnishes a further proof of those qualities and relations of the sarcolemma that have been ascribed to it above. It occurs in fasciculi just taken from the animal, either still living or a moment dead, and it is in the Frog and Newt that I have found it to be most conveniently witnessed. A few fasciculi laid on glass are separated by needles, wetted, and covered with mica. They are then ready for inspection with a high power. Water is taken up into their structure, and their irritability being still retained, and perhaps excited by the distension of the water, the fibriUse begin to contract. By the contraction the water is pressed out forcibly from among them, and their mass diminishes in bulk; the fluid at the same time accumulating at their surface between them and the sarcolemma. The membrane is thus bulged and torn up more or less extensively from its connexions with the fibrilla? (figs. 47 b and 71 to 79). The process may be frequently watched in its whole course; the contraction of the fibrillse is the first step, and as this proceeds the sheath is seen to be elevated a little from their surface, at first in small sudamina-like vesicles. By degrees these increase and coalesce with more or less facility, sometimes subsiding in one part to rise larger in a contiguous one. These slighter and earlier stages of the phenomenon are best seen at the margin of the fasciculus, where a profile view is obtained ; but when the changes are more decided, or indeed even when they are but trivial, provided the eye