BLOODVESSELS OF MUSCLES. 249 superficial muscles generally where a fibrous aponeurosis does not perform the same office. The areolar tissue does not usually clothe every individual fibre from end to end, giving it a cellular sheath, except in cases where the elementary fibres are of large dimensions. Besides the protection the areolar tissue affords to the muscular fibres, it admits of motions between them. But it must also serve the important office of limiting undue motions of one part of a muscle on another part, by its forming a connecting bond between neighbouring bundles. But a principal use of it appears to be that of furnishing a resisting nidus in which the delicate vessels and nerves can traverse the interstices of the fibres, and by which they can be protected from hurtful dragging during the unequal and oscillating movements of the fibres of a voluntary muscle during its state of activity. This idea is supported by the fact that scarcely any areolar tissue exists in the heart or in the unstriped muscles generally. In the heart, though the contraction is powerful, it is instantaneous or nearly so, and there- fore probably more uniformly diffused, so that neighbouring fibres must be less moved on one another than in the more sustained contraction of a voluntary muscle. Moreover the mutual intertwining of even the elementary fibres in this organ is, in many parts of it, so intricate, as to contribute much to their mutual support. And in the other involuntary muscles, the contractions are slowly and evenly progressive along the fibres of the same set. Of the Bloodvessels of Muscles. The arteries and veins of muscles commonly run together, and most of the arterial branches, to within two removes from the capillaries, are accompanied by two venae comites. They invariably pass more or less across the direction of the fibres, divide and subdivide, first in the intervals between the larger sets, then between the smaller sets, till the ultimate twigs insinuate themselves between the fibres composing the smallest bundles, and break up into their capillary terminations. In this course the vessels supply the areolar tissue, their own coats, and the attendant nerves. The capillary plexus of the areolar membrane consists of irregular but pretty equal-sized meshes, and contrasts strongly with that of the muscular tissue itself. The proper capillaries of muscle are quite characteristic in their arrangement, so that a person who has once seen them can never afterwards mistake them. They consist of longitudinal and transverse vessels, the longitudinal always following the course of the elementary fibres, and lying in the intervals between them, the transverse being short communications placed at nearly equal distances between the longitudinal ones, and crossing nearly or quite transversely over or under the fibres. The manner in which the longitudinal vessels are placed in relation to the fibres, is seen in fig. 286, 2l 2