147 NAILS AND HAIRS. dissection by the naked eye, and with ordinary instruments, are to be depended on for the determination simply of the anatomical fact. The nails and hairs are peculiar modifications of the epidermis, and consist essentially of nucleated particles. The nails are flattened, elastic, horny, protective coverings, placed on the dorsal surface of the terminal phalanges of the hands and feet, and projecting beyond the flesh. Hoofs, claws, &c, are varieties of them. The nail has a root, or part concealed within a fold of the cutis; a body, or exposed part, attached to the surface of the cutis ; and a free or projecting edge. The cutis underneath the root and body is termed the matrix, from its being the producing organ of the nail. This is thick and highly vascular, and its colour is seen through the translucent tissue. Near the root it is white, and occasions the appearance termed lunula. The nail has a firm adhesion to the matrix, and is moulded upon it, like the epidermis in other situations. The true epidermis (as distinguished from the nail) is continuous with the nail at the whole circumference of its body; the root dips into the fold of cutis, within the epidermis, and the free edge projects beyond it. In the advanced foetus we find the edge of the nail to be directly continuous with the epidermis of the end of the finger, and only to become free by, a rupture of this connexion after birth. Thus the nail covers that portion of cutis which is without cuticle. It has been frequently discussed whether the cuticle is continued over and under the nail; but this is a question of words only, the nail being the same essential structure as the cuticle. The border of the root of the nail is jagged, thin, and soft, and consists of newly formed substance: the deep surface of the body is also soft, and marked by longitudinal grooves, corresponding to the papillary ridges on the surface of the matrix. These soft under-parts consist of nucleated particles, similar to those of the deep layers of the epidermis. The more superficial lamina? of the nail are more and more dense and fibrous; but, when treated with acetic acid, some imperfect traces of nuclei may still be detected in them. The nail grows both at the root and on the deep surface of the body ; as the substance furnished by the root advances towards the free edge, it receives accessions from the surface of the matrix. Hairs are found on all parts of the surface, except the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet, and differ much in length, thickness, shape, and colour, according to situation, age, sex, family, or race. We may select one of average size for a description of their structure and mode of growth. The shaft of the hair is that part which is fully formed, and which projects beyond the surface. Tracing this into the skin, we find it lodged in a follicular involution of the basement membrane (fig. 87, a), which usually passes through the cutis into the subcutaneous areolar tissue. This hair-follicle is bidhous at its deepest part, like the hair which it contains. Its sides have a cuticular lining, b, continuous with the epidermis, and resembling the cuticle in the rounded form of its deep cells and the scaly character of the more superficial ones, which are here in contact with the outside of the hair, c. The hair grows from the x