MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 10 It is to be observed, that the latter supposition entails one of two consequences worthy of being traced; either those filaments only can receive markings which are at the surface of the fasciculus, or, if it be proved that all are marked, all must be at the surface, and the fasciculus must be of the nature of a tube. But both such con- sequences would be at variance with fact; for there will be no difficulty in proving all the fibrillar of a fasciculus to be thus marked, and the fasciculi to be not tubular, but composed of a solid bundle of fibrillse. First, all the fibrilloe are marked. If a muscle that has been macerated in a cool place be examined, the fibrillse will generally be found to fall readily asunder, and float in great numbers about the field of the microscope ; all these fibrillse present the dark and light spaces alluded to; there are none without them. Under the same circumstances fasciculi will offer themselves in a variety of conditions, partially separated into their elementary fibrillse, either at their extremities or centres; and wherever the fibrillse can be clearly distinguished, where their texture has not been destroyed by the macerating process, they will exhibit these alternate dark and light points with more or le^s distinctness. This appearance is often particularly well displayed in the tissue of the heart, which, though its minute structure is not at present, under discussion, I may remark, has decided strise, doubtless produced 'in the same mode as those of voluntary muscle. The heart (figs. 12 and 17) often exhibits in a decided manner the marked structure of the primitive fibrillse, for it seems to separate by maceration or otherwise, rather into irregular masses of fibrillse, than into primitive fasciculi, similar to those of voluntary muscle. Hence a fragment of it has no determinate form ; the fibrillse composing it are broken off at various lengths, some projecting more, others less ; and it is easy to bring into focus successively all the parts of this very irregular surface, and even at its ends to examine fibrillse which stand out form its central portion. All these fibrillse are marked by the alternate light and dark points. It has occasionally happened, especially in the case of muscles with bulky primi- tive fasciculi, that in the manipulation with needles, preparatory to examination, a recent fasciculus has been partially wounded, so that its interior is displayed. A specimen in this state is presented in fig. 9, from the Boa. The fibrillse here seen are all marked. This fact proves that marked fibrillse exist in the interior of the fasciculus, and is not at all controverted by the circumstance that sometimes the surface of such a laceration does not show a structure of this kind, the violence inflicted by the instru- ment being sufficient to account for the destruction or mutilation of parts of so much delicacy. If further evidence be wanting, it may be drawn from the writings of authors. It is highly probable that Hooke,* when he hinted to the Eoyal Society that " he * " On April 25, 1678, lie showed an experiment further to explain the action of a muscle, which was by a chain of small bladders fastened together, so as by blowing into one pipe the whole might be successively filled, and by that means contracted, supposing the fibres ol the muscle, which seemed like