207 PECULIARITIES OF THE SKIN AND MUCOUS MEMBRANES. The very remarkable differences presented to the eye by different parts of this system have been a source of great difficulty to anatomists, who, on other grounds, believed them to be nearly allied ; and it would appear that hitherto no satisfactory explanation has been given of the anatomical conditions on which this variety depends. This deficiency I shall now endeavour in some degree to supply. From the examina- tions I have made, I have been led to consider in a distinct and separate manner the several elementary tissues already mentioned, composing the simple mucous membrane, and lying underneath it; and am come to the conclusion that the most complicated diversities that are met with, admit, when studied in this manner, of being explained and reconciled to a common type of structure. Peculiarities of the Skin, Mucous Membranes, and Glands. Of the Skin.—This is chiefly peculiar in its epithelial element and its submucous areolar tissue. The epidermis is composed of a vast number of superimposed laminse of scales, which, in the earlier stages of their development, and especially in certain races of mankind, contain minute pigment granules in their interior. The pigment disappears more or less completely as the particles attain the surface. It is continued for some distance down the hair follicles and sweat-ducts, and thus serves to mark the continuity of these parts with the general surface. Hairs, nails, hoofs, and other similar appendages are all composed of modified epithelial particles, and are nearly peculiar to the skin. The sebaceous and perspiratory glands, and the spiral ducts of the latter traversing the epidermis, are also among the most characteristic features of this part of the mucous system. The papillae of the skin have their counterpart in the villi of the mucous membranes ; the cutis vera, as it is called, has also its analogue in the submucous areolar tissue, but it is so enormously developed that the resemblance has escaped the notice of anatomists. Its characters have been already briefly described. It is a striking fact that the cutis, like the submucous areolar tissue, contains no fat, even in the most corpulent subjects. I have repeatedly made this remark. The cutis differs in this respect from the subcutaneous fascia, which is therefore, perhaps, to be regarded as less allied to the submucous areolar tissue. Of the Mucous Membranes.—These hold an intermediate place between the skin and the true glands. They blend insensibly with the former at the different orifices of the body, and may, under favourable conditions, become so modified as to assume the appearance of skin. The change then wrought is nothing more,however,than an increased deposit of epithelial scales, with an absence of the natural moisture ; and it may be doubted whether a transformation of this kind could occur in a mucous membrane of 2 F