234 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. transverse lines, are also to be discerned; and like the transverse ones, not on the surface only, but throughout the whole of its interior. And it is found that there is a remarkable proneness in the fibre to split in the direction indicated by these lines also; by which splitting it is resolved into a great number of fibrillce. These fibrillse, like the discs, do not exist as such in the fibre, and to obtain them its structure must be necessarily broken up to a certain extent, for the union which naturally subsists between these parts must be destroyed. It is therefore most correct to say that there is an indication in the entire state of the fibre of a longitudinal arrangement of a, Longitudinal cleavage. At a tlie longitudinal and trans- verse lines are both seen; some longitudinal lines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. b, Primitive fibrillar separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines equal in width to those at a. c, Represents two appearances commonly pre- sented by the separated single fibrillge. On the upper one the borders and transverse lines are all perfectly recti- linear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular ; in the lower the borders are scalloped, the spaces bead-like ; when most distinct and definite, the fibrilla presents the former of these appearances. B, Transverse cleavage; the longitudinal lines are scarcely visible, a, Incomplete fracture, following the opposite surfaces of a disc, which stretches across the interval and retains the two fragments in connection the edge and surface of this disc are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thick- ness of the disc and to the distance beween the faint longitudinal lines, b, Another disc nearly detached. FIG. 287.—FRAGMENTS OF STRIPED ELEMENTARY FIBRES SHOWING A CLEAVAGE IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. its parts, occasioning a cleavage in that direction on the application of violence. (See fig. 287.) Sometimes the fibre will split into discs only, more often into fibrillse only, but there are always present in it the transverse and the longitudinal lines which mark the two cleavages. It is the most common to find a crack or fracture taking both directions irregularly, running partly in the transverse dark lines, partly in the longitudinal dark lines, sometimes being crosswise on the exterior, more or less lengthwise within. These cracks are often short, even, well defined; at other times the parts near them are much stretched, or quite disorganized, differences depending on the brittleness or toughness of the particular fibre, which qualities vary very much in different specimens, according to the state of nutrition, period of examination, and other circumstances.