THE COCHLEARIS MUSCLE. 179 This is a transparent glassy lamina, having some resemblance to the elastic laminse of the cornea, and the capsule of the lens. A narrow belt of it next the osseous zone is smooth, and exhibits no internal structure, while in the rest of its width it is marked by a number of very minute straight lines, radiating outwards from the side of the modiolus. These lines are very delicate at their commencement, become more strongly marked in the middle, and are again fainter ere they cease, which they do at a curved line on the opposite side. Beyond this the membranous zone is again clear, and homogeneous, and receives the insertion of the cochlearis muscle. The inner clear o"<? CP, o°oo<-> llllliflllft Termination of the cochlear nerves at the border of the osseous zone, with capil- laries ramifying over them. b, Inner clear belt of the membranous zone. c, Marginal capillary on the tympanic surface. d, Pectinate portion of the membranous zone. The half - detached fragment on the opposite edge shows its mode of tearing, e, Outer clear belt of membranous zone, torn from the cochlearis muscle. FIG. 139.—TYMPANIC SURFACE OF A PORTION OF A LAMINA SPIRALIS OF THE CAT. 300 DIAMETERS. MAGNIFIED belt of the membranous zone is little affected by acids. It seems hard and brittle. The middle or pectinate portion is more flexible, and tears in the direction of the lines. The outer clear belt is swollen, and partially destroyed by the action of acetic acid. Along the inner clear belt, and on its tympanic surface., runs a single, sometimes branched, vessel, which would be most correctly called a capacious capillary, as it resembles the capillaries in the texture of its wall, but exceeds them in size. It is the only vessel supplied to the membranous zone, and seems to be thus regularly placed, that it may not mar the perfection of the part as a recipient and propagator of sonorous vibrations. Of the Cochlearis Muscle. At its outer or convex margin, the membranous zone is connected to the outer wail by a semi-transparent structure. This gelatinous-looking tissue was observed by Breschet, and is indeed very obvious on opening the cochlea; but we are not aware 2 B