MR. BOWMAN ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF 7. Similar specimens from the Eabbit, but with extravasation into the capsule, and at i into the tube also, af, af. Afferent vessel, c, c. The capsule. t. The tube, ef, ef The efferent vessel, b, b. Its branches entering the medullary cone. Magnified about thirty diameters. 8. From the Horse. Two Malpighian tufts springing close together from a single terminal twig of the artery. An unusual arrangement, af. Afferent vessel. m, m. Malpighian tufts. Magnified about thirty diameters. 9. From the human subject. Two Malpighian bodies injected. The tufts are burst and the fluid has escaped into the capsule. In one case it has passed also along the tube, the extreme tortuosity of which at its commencement, is well seen. a. Arterial branch, af. Terminal twigs, c, c. Malpighian capsules distended, de. The depression often seen in such cases, at the point where the afferent and efferent vessels pass: the latter are not here injected, t. The tube. Magnified about ninety diameters. 10. From the human subject. This specimen has been chosen because it exhibits the termination of a considerable arterial branch, wholly in Malpighian tufts, and because the several Malpighian bodies injected show different appearances of a very instructive kind. a. Arterial branch with its terminal twigs. At a the injection has only partially filled the tuft. At ft it has entirely filled it, and has also passed out along the efferent vessel ef, without any extravasation. At y it has burst into the capsule and escaped along the tube t, but has also filled the efferent vessel ef. At S and e it has been extravasated and passed along the tube. At m and m (as in fig. 3) the injection on escaping into the capsule has not spread over the whole tuft. Magnified about forty-five diameters. 11. A minute portion of the surface of the human kidney, injected from the artery. The injection has burst many Malpighian tufts within the cortical substance, and so filled the tubes, the convolutions of which on the surface of the organ are here displayed. It has also traversed other Malpighian tufts without extravasation, and so filled the capillary plexus surrounding the tubes and some radicles of the vein, t, t. Tortuous tubes as seen on the surface: these, with their capillaries, cover the surface, so that no Malpighian bodies appear, p. Capillary plexus surrounding the tubes, as seen on the surface, ev. A branch of one of the stelliform veins. Magnified about forty-five diameters. 12. From the Guinea Pig (Cobaya). Terminal branch of the renal artery injected. The injection has burst most of the Malpighian tufts and passed off along the tubes, a. Arterial branch. At m are seen a few Malpighian tufts partially injected without extravasation. Magnified about forty diameters.