103 JUNCTION OF TENDON WITH MUSCLE. abruptly at the circumference of the terminal disc, and. here some small part of the tendinous material appears to be joined to it. In other cases, where the muscle is fixed obliquely to a membranous surface, each fibre is obliquely truncated at its extremity; at an angle determined by the inclination of its axis; instances of which may be seen among the Crustacea, and elsewhere. The researches of Valentin and Schwann have shown that a muscle consists, in the earliest stage, of a mass of nucleated cells, which first arrange themselves in a linear series, with more or less regularity, and then unite to constitute the elementary fibres. As this process of the union of the cells is going forward, a deposit of contractile material gradually takes place within them, commencing on the inner surface, and advancing towards the centre, till the whole is solidified. The deposition occurs in granules, which, as they come into view, are seen to be disposed in the utmost order, according to the two directions already specified. These granules, or sarcous elements, being of the same size as in the perfect muscle, the transverse stripes resulting from their apposition are of the same width as in the adult; but as they are very few in number, the fibres which they compose are of corresponding tenuity. From the very first moment of their formation, these granules are parts of a mass, and not independent of one another; for, as soon as solid matter is deposited in the cells, faint indications of a regular arrangement in granules are usually to be met with. It is common for the longitudinal lines to become well defined before the transverse ones. When both are become strongly marked, as is always the case at birth, the nuclei of the cells, which were before visible, disappear from view, being shrouded by the dark shadows caused by the multitudinous refractions of the light transmitted through the mass of granules: but they can still be shown to exist in the perfect fibre, in all animals, and at all periods of life, by immersion in a weak acid; which, while it swells the fibrous material of the granules, and obliterates their intervening lines, has no action on the nuclei. These nuclei in insects are arranged, in the early condition of the fibre, as a single or double series along the axis (Plate XVIII, fig. 53); and in the adult state, they retain the same position. (See Plate XVIII, fig. 70). In vertebrate animals they are scattered more irregularly, but at pretty equal distances throughout the mass in both foetal and adult conditions. In the fully-formed fibre, if it be large, they lie at various depths within it; but, if small, they are at or near the surface. They are oval and fiat, and of so little substance, that though many times larger than the sarcous elements, and lying amongst them, they do not interfere with their mutual apposition and union. These corpuscles are frequently the cause of irregular longitudinal dark streaks, seen in the fibre by transmitted light. They usually contain some central granules or nucleoli. It is doubtful whether the identical corpuscles, originally present, remain through life, or whether successive crops advance and decay during the progress of growth and nutrition; but it is certain that, as development proceeds, fresh corpuscles are deposited, since their absolute number is far greater in the adult