237 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. be obtained in a detached form by a general separation occurring along the transverse and longitudinal lines visible in the fibre. The existence of these particles, as well as their form and size, is indicated in the structure of the fibre, while yet entire; but they are united together, and have no independent existence, each being by its very nature a part of the mass, which is rendered incomplete by the removal of a single element. It results also from this description that these particles have no definite outline on all their aspects, being united together; and that they only obtain such an outline on being severed; on which account it is perhaps impossible to say whether, in the perfect fibre, they be rounded, square, or polygonal. An example of the strong lateral union of these particles to one another was presented by the specimen from which the following sketch was taken. It consisted of two or three elementary fibres from the leg of a newly-born rabbit, which had been kept for some months in weak spirit. They were lying in a curved form on the field of the microscope, and presented on the convex edge transverse series of the particles, which, having lost their longitudinal while they retained their lateral union, stood out in relief, as represented in fig. 289, a, a, a. In the intervals between the projecting particles others have become detached. fig. 289. It sometimes happens that a linear series of them (a fibrilla) is separated, which has the appearance of a necklace of beads, with constricted intervals, while at other times the intervals, though dark, are of equal width with the light or highly refracting particles. Again, it is possible, by steeping in acid a transverse section of a dried muscle, to separate the particles considerably from one another, and to see that they are granules acting as lenses, being much more refractive than the material connecting them. Such transverse sections are an artificial division into discs, and the intervals between the particles widen out most in specimens taken from birds. {See fig. 290.) It is in these sarcous elements that the contractile power resides, and, as they are apt to retain after death the varying effects of the contraction they have undergone during the rigor mortis, it is not easy to give an exact measurement of their size or shape. An average drawn from very numerous observations shows, however, that they are very nearly alike in these respects in all animals and at all periods of life. Their