286 THE PACINIAN BODIES. " The nerves distributed to this apparatus come exclusively from the fifth pair, and more particularly from the branches springing from the anterior portion of the root. Each follicle (fig. 486) is of a spheroidal form, slightly compressed on the side which adheres to the neighbouring follicle, and its diameter is about -^th of an inch. I have found these dimensions the same in animals of very different size. These follicles are never free or floating in the gelatinous fluid so abundant in these fishes: on the contrary, they are always firmly fixed, as if with a special view to their security, for they are planted on unyielding aponeurotic expansions like that of the muzzle, or else on fibrous bands extending along the fm, and having no other use. When the gelatinous fluid which envelops these follicles is examined under the microscope, it is seen to contain numerous fibres passing in various directions, and fixed to the surface of the follicles. "Each follicle is formed of two membranes (/ and g) which adhere together on the side towards the fibrous band which supports the organ, whilst on the opposite Branch of fifth pair of nerves, b, Twigs going to the organ and passing through c c, the fibrous band, d, The nerve as it lies on e, the granular mass. / and g, The inner and the outer capsules, containing tluid. Jc, Anastomosing filament from the preceding follicle. I, Anastomosing filament to the succeeding follicle. FIG. 486.—ONE OP THE FOLLICULAR NERVOUS ORGANS OF THE ELECTRICAL TORPEDO. MUCH MAGNIFIED AND SLIGHTLY COMPRESSED. FROM SAVT. side they are separated by about a third of the vertical diameter of the follicle. These organs may be easily examined by a very slight magnifying power, it being only necessary in the first place to remove the investing gelatinous substance, and then to subject them to moderate compression for the display of their interior. In a follicle thus compressed, we observe first the cut portion of the tendinous band cc, then the outer membrane enclosing the other, in which is the rounded granular mass e already mentioned. This latter seems to rest upon the lower wall of the internal membrane. The external membrane adheres by its lower border to the fibrous band beneath it in such a way, that between this external wall of the follicle and the internal is left a space, in which the nervous ramification d advances and adheres to the rounded mass of granular substance. li In the follicles of the longitudinal series of the fin, of which we here spea,k, the nervous twig is derived from the fifth pair and passes first through a slit in the tendinous band. After passing this aperture it bends underneath the granular