123 RIGOR MORTIS. and Crustacea. The meaning of this correspondence may be further illustrated by the phenomena of hybernation, in which all the functions are held enchained, and we are certain that nutrition proceeds with extreme languor. In the hybernating animal, contractility is very enduring, as compared with that property in the very same organs when in a state of greater vital activity. Nor must the evident relation subsisting between fibrine and the sarcous tissue, in respect of their vital properties, be passed over in silence. In chemical constitu- tion they may be said to be identical; and there seems no doubt that muscle is formed by the direct deposition in a solid form of the fluid fibrine of the blood, under the elective attraction of the previously existing tissue. Now, in birds, the blood, i.e., its fibrine, coagulates, or assumes the solid form, very quickly when it is with- drawn from the vessels, in mammalia less so, and in reptiles and fishes very tardily, if in these several cases it be placed in similar circumstances. A fatal stroke of lightning, which instantaneously destroys contractility in the muscles, prevents also the coagulation of the blood. In the same person, under health and disease, the blood may vary much in the speed with which it coagulates, according to its chemical constitution, the amount of oxygen accumulated in it, and. the activity of the vital processes; and, after death, the coagulability of the blood, and the contractility of the muscles, have a general correspondence, which has been even made the basis of an hypothesis, ascribing the rigor mortis, or the dying act of contraction, to coagulation of the blood.* It will be subsequently explained f that the fibrine of the blood, on becoming solid, acquires for a brief period the property of contractility ; and this in very different degrees, according to varieties in the same causes which affect the speed of its coagulation. No one will pretend that this is not as much a property of living fibrine when solid, as that of coagulating is of the same substance when fluid; and the correspondence between the coagulated living fibrine of the blood and the living sarcous tissues in chemical constitution, in the possession of contractility, and in the modes in which that vital property in both is affected by similar causes, adds strong confirmation to the opinion we have expressed, that contractility is a property of the living muscular substance as such. But contractility does not vary in its durability alone ; it also presents great differences in regard to its aptness to excitation by stimuli: and it would appear that these characters are always, cceteris paribus, in an inverse relation to one another. In birds and insects, which have for the most part to sustain themselves by very energetic and rapid muscular movements in the air, the excitability is extreme ; and certainly the motions performed by these creatures far exceed in precision, regularity, and frequency those of any other animals. The rigor mortis, or stiffening of the body after death, is due to a contraction of the muscles. If the contractility of a muscle be enduring, the rigor comes on late * Oepila, B^clard, and Treviranus hold this view, which Mulleu seems to regard as not untenable, t 1 Phys. Anat. and Physiology of Man,' Vol. II, Ch. XXVII, " On the Blood," S