196 COLUMNAR MUCOUS MEMBRANE. layers of a series (fig, 278, a a). It is met with in those parts only where foreign pressure, or more properly friction, has to be encountered. In such parts a thick coating of epithelium is evidently desirable, and the hard and almost horny qualities which these particles at length assume where most exposed to violence, admirably adapt them for their object. On such parts, moreover, cilia would not be needed, and it would even seem that this variety of epithelium when converted into true scales possesses neither sufficient substance nor vital power to develop and support these exquisite organs. The scaly epithelium is remarkable for the tenacity with which its particles adhere to one another, and to the surface on which they rest. This adhesion is manifest at all the stages through which the particles pass. It is stronger between particles at the same stage than between those at different stages of growth, so that there is always a tendency to a separation into successive lamina? on maceration or otherwise. Hence have resulted the divisions of the epidermis into two, three, or more layers, and especially that remarkable fallacy of regarding the rete mucosum as a distinct structure. How far this adhesion is owing to the presence of an intercellular substance in all instances it is difficult to decide; but it seems highly probable that, in the deepest layers, where the particles are small and rounded, such a substance must exist in considerable abundance, filling up the interstices, and serving as a kind of blastema, in which the nuclei (or cytoblasts) of fresh particles originate. I have lately (Jan., 1842) ascertained a very curious fact, giving evidence of this adhesion. This is, that the delicate threads drawn out of the cutis when the cuticle is stripped from a piece of macerated skin, consist entirely of the epithelium of the sweatducts, the particles of which are so intimately united with one another, and with those of the deeper layers of the epidermis, as to allow of being thus dragged out of their tube of basement membrane, often for a length of an eighth of an inch. The scaly epithelium is subdivisible into two forms, the regular and the irregular. In the former, the scales are united edge to edge in a regular manner, as in the skin of the Erog and other Eeptiles, and on many internal surfaces, especially in the lower animals. In this form, the particles do not become so thin as in the other, and the superficial scales are cast off in lamina? consisting of a single series and of uniform thickness. In the latter form, they overlap one another without order, and present no regular figure. This is the ordinary form, and is that presented in the skin and other parts of Mammalia and Birds. Of the Prismatic Variety* In this the particles have the shape of small rods, disposed endwise on the base- ment membrane, in a single layer, the thickness of which depends on their length. * To this the very appropriate term columnar has been lately given by Professor Todd.