COLUMNAR MUCOUS MEMBRANE. 197 These rods are united to one another by their sides, which are flattened for that purpose. They are, therefore, prisms and not cylinders, as Henle terms them. They are also almost invariably of very unequal thickness in different parts, being bulged some- where near the middle by the nucleus, which is oval, with its long axis parallel to that of the particle. Their deep or attached extremity, also, usually tapers to a point, in order, probably, to allow room for new particles to spring up in the intervals. This is a a, solitary particles remaining attached; b, club-shaped extremity of the villus from which the epithelium has been detached; c c, epithelium at its base. Magnified 150 diameters. d, detached particles, showing their close union, especially at the surface (at the letter) ; e, other detached particles, showing their various shape, their nuclei and nucleoli. The letter is placed at their free extremity. Magnified 350 diameters. FIG. 280.—VILLUS OF THE INTESTINUM ILIUM OF THE DOG, WITH THE EPITHELIUM PARTIALLY DETACHED. more decidedly the case where they clothe a convex surface (as that of the intestinal villi), and their sides tend to assume the direction of radii from a common centre. Hence tliey are sometimes even triangular in outline. Their opposite or free extremity is much thicker, often as thick as the part bulged by the nucleus, and near this extremity neighbouring particles are generally very intimately attached to one another, having often the appearance of being blended into a single mass. The best example of this is on the villi of the small intestine (fig. 280). The contiguous particles, however, W a, ciliated epithelial particle from the inner surface of the membrana tympani of the human subject; b, ciliated epithelial particles from the bronchial mucous membrane of the human subject. All these show the nuclei and nucleoli. FIG. 281.—MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. are fitted closely together in the greater portion of their length, and to effect this the bulging nuclei vary in the height at which they are placed. There can be no doubt, that, in certain situations at least, as will be afterwards shown, these particles are being continually shed, and consequently are being perpetually renovated. But it is very difficult to ascertain their early condition and changes, and I am not aware of any satisfactory observations having been made for this end. From the great facility with which they become detached from the surface they invest, it is next to impossible