CONCLUSION. 225 Bonn,* already alluded to. He here traces, with great accuracy, the continuity of the skin and mucous membranes at the different orifices of the body, and he clearly recognises their close structural relation, considering the mucous membranes to be productions of the skin. To our countryman, Dr. Carmichael Smith,! we are indebted for the first application of this arrangement to the purposes of pathological classifica- tion, and Pinel soon after followed in the same track.J But a new era dates from the remarkable works of Bichat,ยง in which he delineated the structure, vital and other properties, and the relations of the different tissues of the body, and arranged them on a basis, which, though faulty in some of its details, has received no essential modification in its principle since his time, and entitles him to the praise of rare genius and sagacity. He seems to have clearly perceived the true connexion that exists between the skin, mucous membranes, and glands, although he failed to carry out his views into the subdivisions of his system, where he was still fettered by the crude notions of his predecessors. One of the most remarkable features in his work, bearing on the present subject, is the analogy he draws between the epidermis of the skin and the mucus of mucous membranes, an analogy which he discovered with the eye of the mind, which has been since often rejected, but which can now be shown to be real by the eye of sense. Most writers of eminence since the time of Bichat have adopted the principal part of his views, and some have advanced further towards a full recognition of the homology of the skin, mucous membranes, and glands, among whom must be men- tioned, in particular, J. Muller, whose classical work on the glands, || published in 1830, placed him at once in the foremost rank among the anatomists of our own day. Subsequently to that date, the improvements in the construction of the micro- scope and the consequent employment of greater magnifying powers, have added an extraordinary stimulus to anatomical and physiological studies, and directed a host of inquirers into an almost unexplored field, from which the harvests already reaped give the most favourable earnest of future and rapid additions to the stores of know- ledge. To the Germans is unequivocally due the merit of having far outstripped all other nations in the honourable path thus opened, and in no collateral path of i nquiry which has been pursued to the same extent, has so much new, interesting, and important infoimation of an accurate and satisfactory character, been obtained, as in that which it has been my duty to treat of in the present article. The names of Purkinje, Valintin, Henle, and Schwann deserve primary honour in this place, and to these may be added those of Ehrenberg, Treviranus, E. Wagner, Boehm, * ' De contiiraatiotiibus Menibranarum,' Roterod., 1769. f 'Medical Communications,' Vol. ii., London, 1790. X 'Nosographie Pliilosophique,' Paris, 1798. ยง ' Traite des Membranes,' 1800. ' Anatomie Generate,' 1801. || ' De Glandularum secementium structura penitiori,' Lipsife, 1830. 2 h 2