166 NERVES OP TASTE. Of the Nerves of Taste. Taste having been shown to exist independently in parts supplied, on the one hand solely by the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, on the other solely by the lingual branches of the fifth pair, it follows, as a direct consequence, that these nerves must respectively participate in the sense; and there is besides reason to attribute a share to the palatal branches of the fifth. Amid many conflicting, and some quite irreconcileable, state- ments on this disputed point, with which it would be needless to distract the reader's attention, the weight of evidence derived from other sources seems to be much in favour of the above conclusion. The origin and connexions of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves, which will be described a I a future page, may be referred to in connexion with this question. Eapp found no lingual branch of the fifth in the tongue of the Swan or Parrot, both of which have acute taste. The glosso-pharyngeal and par vagum supplied the organ. Evidence from Experiments. From observations on the effects of section of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves in dogs, Panizza, and, subsequently, Valentin and Wagnee, concluded that taste was completely lost after their division, and, consequently, that these are the sole nerves of the sense. But in such an inquiry negative results have far less value than positive ones ; and we therefore consider the experiments of Mullee, Guelt, and Koenfeld, and those of Alcock and Eeid, who all agree that decided indications of taste remained after these nerves had been cut, as proving that the lingual branches of the fifth share in the sense. Mullee, Guelt, and Koenfeld, however, failing to find signs of taste after the lingual branches of the fifth were divided, concluded too hastily that these are the sole, or by far the principal nerves of the sense, in opposition to the experiments of Panizza and his followers, the positive evidence of which in this regard carries greater weight. The experiments of Dr. Alcock directly tend to reconcile these inconsistencies. He found that though taste remained after dividing the lingual branches of the fifth, yet it seemed completely lost in the anterior part of the tongue. Besides, it is not impossible that the rude injury inflicted in these contradictory experiments on either the glosso-pharyngeal or the lingual branch of the fifth might temporarily deaden the sense of taste in the other, in a way somewhat similar to that, whatever it be, in which loss of smell impairs taste. Valentin admits that one of the dogs in which he had cut the glosso-pharyngeal nerves was able to taste a fortnight afterwards; a period quite too short to have allowed reunion and restoration of function to the nerves, and making it likely that the sense had been only apparently, and not really, lost.