MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 29 in the economy of the organ, our present ignorance of the essential cause of motion renders any explanation that might be offered of doubtful value. But it has appeared probable to me, 1st, That it may act as a mechanical protector and isolator of the contractile tissue inclosed within it; 2ndly, That its exquisitely smooth external surface may facilitate those rapid minute motions of neighbouring fasciculi one against another, which will afterwards be shown to occur, in all likelihood, in contracting muscle; and, 3rdly, That, from its apparent similarity in structure to the membrane of the nervous tubules, which run among the fasciculi, and between which and the proper contractile tissue it seems certainly to intervene, as well as from its extensive contact and union with the surface of the latter, it may be the conducting medium of that influence, whose mode of propagation the late discoveries of the loop-like termination of the nerves of muscle, have hitherto only seemed to render more inexplicable than ever. Of the Corpuscles of the Primitive Fasciculi. There is a fact in the anatomical history of voluntary muscle which, from its apparent universality, is entitled to some attention, and yet which seems hitherto to have escaped the notice of anatomists; this is, The existence in the primitive fasciculi of minute bodies of a definite form and structure, generally invisible, unless rendered evident by special modes of preparation. The most ready method of demonstrating them, is to touch the specimen with a small quantity of one of the milder acids, as the citric. These agents cause an instantaneous tumescence and transparency of the fasciculi, as has already been stated, and the corpuscles become at once clearly defined. But by the swelling of the fibrillaa among which they are situated, they may be seen to undergo some distortion from their real shape, and it is generally in certain parts alone, as where fibrillse have escaped from the sarcolemma, or the corpuscles become detached, that they present their natural characters. They then appear to be oval or circular discs, frequently concave on one or both surfaces, and containing somewhere near the centre, one, two, or three very minute dots or granules (figs. 39 a, 40 a, 51 a, &c). This at least has been their most common form, when they have seemed most entire and free from injury. It is also their general shape when discernible, as occasionally happens, without chemical treatment. But they present some varieties in figure, being sometimes thick or elongated, or curved and irregularly oblong, at others of indefinite shape and granulated aspect. It is doubtful, however, how far those having such characters are modified by the circumstances of the examination. I have witnessed the breaking down of the more regular ones into a granulated mass, in repeated instances, on the addition of acid, by the forced elongation of the fibrillse, among which they lie (figs. 39, 47), and am therefore induced to think such specimens to be generally misrepresentations of nature. If they be not always fallacious, they