BLOODVESSELS OF MUSCLES. 250 where I have represented them as they are seen on a transverse section. They usually occupy the interstice between three or more fibres, but sometimes also the space between the contiguous surfaces of two fibres. The length of the longitudinal vessels does not usually exceed the twentieth of an inch; in other words, the terminal twigs of the artery and vein pertaining to the same capillary are seldom further than that apart. The length of the transverse anastomosing capillaries necessarily varies with the thickness of the fibres over which they pass. (See fig. 299.) The diameter of the capillaries of muscle varies like that of others with the size of the blood-particles of the animal. It is, however, only just sufficient to allow of the particles to pass. If a fragment of a Frog's muscle, perfectly fresh, be examined, series of blood-particles will be seen in the longitudinal capillaries. These particles are compressed and a, a, Terminal twig of the artery, b, b, ter- minal twigs of two neighbouring venous branches, anastomosing, and carrying off blood from the same capillary net-work, c, c. e, An elementary fibre, to which the relative size and direction of those to which the capillaries here represented are distributed. FIG. 299.—VIEW OP THE CAPILLARIES OF MUSCLE (PART OF THE LATISSIMUS DORSI OF A MOUSE, WHERE IT CONSISTS OF A SINGLE SHEET OF FIBRES). elongated, sometimes to a great extent, evidently by the narrowness of the canal which contains them. It may seem at first sight not doubtful that in the living creature these elastic blood-discs are similarly elongated in their passage through the vessels of muscle, but the admirable researches of Poiseutlle will perhaps serve to explain this appearance without our being driven to suppose the presence of so formidable an obstacle to the capillary circulation through these organs. It is more probable that the contraction of the vessels and the compression of the blood-discs occur, on some of the contents of the vessels being permitted to escape by the severing of the fragment for microscopic examination. The coats of the capillaries of muscle consist of a simple diaphanous membrane, in which a few irregular-shaped cytoblasts occur at infrequent intervals.