PHENOMENA OF CONTRACTION. 112 shortening occasioned by it. The circumstance, however, has led to the belief that the act is accompanied with a compression of the substance of the muscle into a smaller compass ; but it is, on the contrary, well ascertained that it has gained in thickness what it has lost in length. The experiments by which this fact is attested have been often repeated, and their general results accord well together. If a muscular mass be made to contract by means of galvanism in a closed vessel full of water, but furnished with a very delicate tube, the slightest diminution of bulk would be at once indicated by the fall of the water within the tube ; but the water, under these circumstances, is found to retain its level. Mr. Mayo varied this experiment by selecting the heart of a Dog,4' which, continuing to beat during some time, was in this way distinctly seen to undergo no change of size. The familiar practice of accelerating the flow from the vein at the elbow by desiring the patient to contract the muscles of the fore-arm, does not, as is sometimes imagined, show any diminution of their bulk, but only a forcible increase of their lateral dimensions, by which the deep veins are compressed within the inelastic sheath of fascia, and the blood diverted into the superficial channels. In those muscles which have a bulging centre or belly, as the biceps of the arms the fibres are arranged in a curved form, and during contraction must tend towards a straight line in the direction of the axis of the muscle. In such instances the bloodvessels that traverse their interstices must be in some degree compressed. If we examine under the microscope the contracted state of a morsel of the sarcous tissue, we find it to present essentially the same characters as that of the entire organ, a shortening in length, with a corresponding increase in thickness • and this is true, however minute the fragment may happen to be. This is all that can be said in general of the visible features of this remarkable phenomenon. Late investigations, instead of explaining the manner in which contraction is effected, by showing its dependence on forces previously understood, have only served to display the inadequacy of the coarse and mechanical hypotheses, that physiologists have been so prone to confide in, and to make it more than probable that they must ever be content to repose upon the fact above stated, as the simplest which the most refined microscopical analysis will ever disclose. All muscle retains its contractility for a longer or shorter period after its separation from the body, or after death. During this period contractions may be excited by the nervous, and all other stimuli, which we can apply to it; and it is certain that these contractions are the same in their nature with those occurring in the living body under natural influences. Being also easy of inspection, they are admirably suited to the display of the minute changes occurring in muscle during its active state. The muscle with striped fibres is peculiarly adapted for the display of these changes ; for, its texture not being homogeneous, but marked throughout with perfect regularity into spaces or particles so minute as to require to be very highly mag- * ' Anat. and Pliys. Comment.,' vol. i., p. 12.