FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 214 Defence from external influences. One chief division of the mucous system, viz., the skin, derives its main characteristics from its adaptation to this function, and those parts of the mucous membranes which are most exposed to the contact of irritating substances approach the most nearly to the skin in their structure. Their epithelium is scaly and in thick laminae, their submucous areolar tissue abundant, dense, and resisting. The nervous endowments of such surfaces, whether excito-motory or sensorial, mainly contribute to the protection of the animal. And, on the external tegument, the development of hairs, nails, &c, in their endless modifications of form, position, and structure, serve, with few exceptions, the same important purpose. In some parts of the mucous membrane peculiarly obnoxious to pressure, there are special glands for the lubrication of their free surface. Absorption of external Material. Every particle entering the body from without, is absorbed, in the first instance, through some portion or other of the mucous system. What is now known of the nature of this function in general, renders it certain that every part of the mucous system would form an absorbing surface, if favourably circumstanced for doing so. But as the extraneous material to be absorbed, must be brought into contact with the absorbing surface, often by some special and complicated means, this function is chiefly limited to certain distinct districts of the system. With few exceptions the glands are not suited either by their position or structure to receive the contact of extraneous substances, and even many portions of the mucous membranes are incapacitated in the same manner, as, for example, most of those lining the excretory passages of the glands. The secretions which, in a healthy state, are the only substances brought into contact with these surfaces, are, it is true, occasionally modified by a partial absorption of their constituents; but, generally speaking, this occurs to a very slight extent. Once formed, they usually traverse the channels, leading to the outlets of the body unchanged. The simplest condition under which this function presents itself appears to be that exhibited by the respiratory surface, which, whether it be arranged as lungs or gills, is concerned with aeriform particles, and absorbs and secretes through the self-same structure. The skin also is a very active absorbing surface, and appears, by the best observations, to be provided with a close net-work of lymphatics, which I have already stated to be most probably situated immediately under the basement