196 SPHEROIDAL MUCOUS MEMBRANE, to examine them in situ on thin vertical sections. But there is no reason for supposing their mode of growth to be originally different from that of the scaly variety. Their nuclei probably appear first on the surface of the basement membrane, and around these a cell is developed (fig. 280, a). But this cell from its earliest period seems to contain an amorphous substance, which under high microscopic powers looks finely mottled, but not so definitely so as to allow of being called granular. As the particle a, small particle, apparently in an early stage of development—the nucleus is smaller than in the other specimens; b, another more advanced—the nucleus and surrounding substance are both larger, especially the latter, which presents a fine granular texture; c, a particle made angular by pressure against others—it presents two nuclei, as though formed by fission; d, another of a different shape ; e, detached nucleus, showing its transparency and clear outline; also two eccentric dots, the nucleoli. FIG. 282.—EPITHELIAL PARTICLES FROM THE CORN IF UTERI OF THE COW. THE OPPOSITE CORNU CONTAINED A F(ETUS ONE INCH AND A HALF LONG. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. advances towards its full size, it loses its cell-membrane, and when complete is to be regarded rather as a solid mass of organic substance, surrounding a nucleus, than as a cell. Here, then, is a striking difference between the scale and the prism: maturity being marked in the one by the disappearance of the substance of the cell; in the other, by that of the cell-membrane. Of the Spheroidal Variety (see figs. 273 to 277). In this the particles are of a rounded form, though generally somewhat flattened where they touch. They are always thick, from the substance they contain. It is this variety that constitutes the chief mass of the secreting glands, and hence it might not improperly be styled glandular. It corresponds with the prismatic variety, in its usually constituting in the glands a single layer, and in the predom- 'M^foff a' nucleus ; i, nucleolus ; c, fatty particle. FIG. 283.—THREE EPITHELIAL PARTICLES FROM THE HUMAN LIVER. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. inance, from the first, of its substance over its membrane. In the glands, indeed, the membrane can seldom be discerned at all, and the substance surrounding the nucleus, though more bulky, has the same finely mottled character already noticed in the prisms. In other situations the cell-membrane is persistent, but even then it never flattens into a scale. This variety presents in the different glands numerous modifications, which have not yet been studied with the accuracy they merit. It