THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. 69 By the Arteries, the Malpighian Tufts can be injected with great facility, and also, with less freedom, the Capillaries surrounding the uriniferous tubes. The Tubes also may be injected, by extravasation from the Malpighian tufts. The course of the injection to the tufts is direct and free. The arterial tree is of small capacity, and there is seldom so much blood in it after death as to impede the flow of the artificial fluid. My preparations show this tree injected in various degrees, by the double fluid (Plate IV., figs. 1 to 14). In some, the tufts are full, the afferent and the efferent vessels are both seen, as well as the communication of the latter with the plexus surrounding the tubes (figs. 2, 4, 5, 6). In others, the vessels of the tuft have given way under the pressure of the fluid, which has then escaped into the capsule and often into the tube also* (figs. 4, 9, 10, &c). Sometimes the injection has passed freely and without extravasation through only a portion of the Malpighian tuft, leaving the rest filled with blood, which could not have happened to an unbranched coil of vessel, as this tuft is by some described.t In these, the afferent and the efferent vessels are both injected, but only a fragment of the tuft (fig. 2). Sometimes the injected fluid has burst out immediately on entering the first branches of the tuft: it has then insinuated itself between the ball of vessels and the capsule, and has run off along the tube. In this case the tuft is left uninjected and containing blood, and it becomes enveloped in a film of injection (fig. 9). Sometimes one side only of the tuft is injected at the moment when extravasation occurs, sometimes the whole, and likewise the efferent vessel (figs. 3, 4). In general, the capsule, when thus filled with extravasated injection, has a perfectly smooth external surface, but when the tuft within is also much distended, this may, in the dried and somewhat collapsed specimen, give to the outer surface of the capsule an uneven appearance like that of the tuft itself, The capsule, when distended, is seen in many instances to bulge and form a prominent circle round the point at which the vessels enter and emerge. The vessels then appear to lie in a small pit or fissure before becoming connected with the tuft (fig 9). Lastly, it occasionally happens that though extravasation has occurred into the capsule, the fluid has not spread itself over the whole surface of the tuft, and yet has passed off along the tube (figs. 3, 10 m m). As the tubes in the human kidney usually become very tortuous immediately on leaving the Malpighian bodies, the * I have great pleasure in stating that my friend Mr. Tomes, three years ago, during his examination of numerous kidneys that he had injected, saw two or three examples of this escape of the injection along the tube; of one of which he has preserved a rough outline. Not being able to see it again he gave up the search. I have no doubt that he communicated this fact to me in conversation at the time, though I cannot now recollect his doing so. The first drawing T made of the tube expanded over the tuft, I find dated February 17, 1841; about which time my interest in the subject was first excited. t Of course this never occurs in Birds, where the Malpighian vessel is a coiled ampulla.