77 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. Thus the Malpighian bodies are as unlike, as the tubes passing from them are like, the membrane, which, in other glands, secerns its several characteristic products from the blood. To these bodies, therefore, some other and distinct function is with the highest probability to be attributed. When the Malpighian bodies were considered merely as convoluted vessels without any connection with the uriniferous tubes, no other office could be assigned them, than that of delaying the blood in its course to the capillaries of the tubes, and the object of this it was impossible to ascertain. Now, however, that it is proved that each one is situated at the remotest extremity of a tube, and that the tufts of vessels are a distinct system of capillaries inserted into the interior of the tube, surrounded by a capsule, formed by its membrane and closed everywhere except at the orifice of the tube, it is evident that conjectures on their use may be framed with greater plausibility. The peculiar arrangement of the vessels in the Malpighian tufts is clearly designed to produce a retardation in the flow of the blood through them. And the insertion of the tuft into the extremity of the tube, is a plain indication that this delay is subservient in a direct manner to some part of the secretive process. It now becomes interesting to inquire, in what respect the secretion of the kidney differs from that of all other glands, that so anomalous an apparatus should be appended to its secerning tubes ? The difference seems obviously to lie in the quantity of aqueous particles contained in it; for how peculiar soever to the kidney the approximate principles of the urine may be, they are not more so than those of other glands to the organs which furnish them. This abundance of water is apparently intended to serve chiefly as a menstruum for the proximate principles and salts which this secretion contains, and which, speaking generally, are far less soluble than those of any other animal product. This is so true, that it is common for healthy urine to deposit some part of its dissolved contents on cooling. It may seem that an exception to this exists in the solid urine of some reptiles; but this expression merely describes the urine as it is found in the cloaca and larger excretory channels. The secretion is brought from the tubules of the gland in a fluid state, and only becomes solid by the re-absorption of its aqueous portion after it has traversed the tortuous canals wherein it was formed, and been placed in a condition to be readily expelled from the system. The subordination of the aqueous part to the purpose of eliminating the more essential elements of the secretion from the secerning tubules of the gland, is therefore here placed in a clear light. If this view of the share taken by the water be correct, we must suppose that fluid to be separated either at every point of the secreting surface, along with the proximate principles, as has hitherto been imagined, or else in such a situation that it may at once freely irrigate the whole extent of the secerning membrane. Analogy lends no countenance to the former supposition, while to the latter, the singular