65 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. tubes, as those of the hepatic artery do into the portal-hepatic plexus of the lobules of the liver. Thus there are in the kidney two perfectly distinct systems of capillary vessels, through both of which the blood passes in its course from the arteries into the veins : the 1st, that inserted into the dilated extremities of the uriniferous tubes, and in immediate connection with the arteries; the 2nd, that enveloping the convolutions of the tubes, and communicating directly with the veins. The efferent vessels of the Malpighian bodies, that carry the blood between these two systems, may collectively be termed the portal system of the kidney. To these distinct capillary systems, I am inclined to attribute distinct parts of the function of the organ; and their importance seems to warrant a few words, in further explanation of their anatomical differences. The former, which may be styled the Malpighian capillary system, is made up of as many parts as there are Malpighian bodies. These parts are entirely isolated from one another • and, as there is no inosculation between the arterial branches supplying them, the blood enters each in a direct stream from the main trunk. This capillary system is also highly remarkable, indeed stands alone among similar structures, in being bare. The secreting tubes of the kidney, like those of all other glands, are, strictly speaking, an involution of the outer tegument of the frame: their interior is, in one sense, the outside of the body: their walls intervene between the vessels and the exterior, and, as it were, cover them in. But here is a tuft of capillaries extruded through the wall of the tube, and lodged in a dilatation of its cavity, uncovered by any structure. Bare indeed, yet screened from injury in its remote cell, with infinite care and skill! Each separate part, also, of this system, has but one afferent and one efferent channel, and both of these are exceedingly small, compared with the united capacity of the capillary tuft. The artery in dividing, dilates: then follow branches which often exceed it in size, and which gradually break up into the finest. The efferent vessel does not usually even equal the afferent, and in size is often itself a capillary. Hence must arise a greater retardation of the blood in the tuft, than occurs probably in any other part of the vascular system; a delay that must be increased by the tortuosity of the channels to be traversed. The other system of capillaries, or that surrounding the uriniferous tubes, corresponds, in every important respect, with that investing the secreting canals of other glands. It is well known to anatomists, and therefore does not require to be described at any length. Its vessels anastomose with the utmost freedom on every side, and lie on the deep surface of the membrane that furnishes the secretion. I have applied the term " portal system of the kidney" to the series of vessels connecting these two, on account of the close analogy it seems to bear to the vena porta. The precise quality of the blood it carries may be doubtful, but in distribution K