236 INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. found to be converted into transverse bars, crossing the rods at right angles in the interval of the beads; or, in other words, forming the elements of the transverse stripes. My friend, Dr. Gruby, of Vienna, informed me that he had had spiral rods of glass constructed, which, when placed in front of one another, have the same appearance as that often met with in the fibres, and he conceives the nbrilhe to be, consequently, spiral threads : an opinion advanced by Muys, to explain the phenomenon of contrac- tion, but unnecessary for that purpose, and which is quite at variance with all I have observed on the subject. Such spiral rods, however apposed, can never present lines absolutely transverse, such as always exist on the unmutilated fibre, and generally on the detached fibrillce; and the minute zigzags the stripes so often form, and which might, if constant, be possibly explained by the notion of spiral rods, are the mere result of a stretching and disturbance of the direction of the axes of the particles composing the discs and fibrillge. But the cleavage of the fibre into discs is especially opposed to the idea of a spiral form of each fibrilla. I think it is clear that the dark lines in both directions are not occasioned by a difference of colour, but solely by a variety in refraction; but on what this difference in refraction depends it is more difficult to explain. Is the connecting material of a different refractive power, or of the same nature as the particles it unites ? If of the same nature, it must be of smaller dimensions, and minute interspaces must be left; but of the existence of such interspaces there is no conclusive evidence. It seems more probable that the connecting material is less dense, and fills up every interval; but I do not pretend to determine what may be its nature, or whether it differs chemically from the parts it serves to join. It is remarkable that the direction ot the cleavage should vary so much in different specimens, without it being possible to say on what the variety depends: and the question has still to be determined, whether the transverse and longitudinal modes of union between the particles are the same. It is most likely that they are, and the differences in the regularity and breadth of the transverse and longitudinal lines are easily explained on that supposition. The transverse dark intervals between the particles, being all ranged on the same plane, the edge of which is directed to the observer, when he looks on the side of a fibre, appear as a sharp line, while the longitudinal dark intervals not being on a plane, are seen irregularly one in front of the other, as a little consideration will show. Hence the latter seldom seem so definite or regular as the former. Nevertheless their union, seen on the surface of a detached disc, often presents much regularity, and forms curved or straight lines, such as result when a number of balls of equal size are huddled together on a level. It may be concluded from what has now been advanced, that the discs and fibrillse (or in other words, the general mass of the fibre) are made up of a number of particles, which I have termed primitive particles or sarcous elements, and which would