59 ON THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF THE M ALP I GUI AN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY, WITH OBSERVATIONS ON THE CIRCULATION THROUGH THAT GLAND. By W. Bowman, F.R.S., Assistant Surgeon to the Kings College Hospital, and Demonstrator of Anatomy in King's College, London. Received February 14,—Read February 17, 1842. These remarkable bodies have been an object of much interest since their discovery by the great anatomist whose name they bear. Malpighi found they could be injected with great facility from the arteries, and he imagined them to be glands, in which the urine is elaborated from the blood. He seems also to have been of opinion that in them the uriniferous tubes take their rise.* Etjysch examined them with great care, and preserved specimens in his museum in which he believed that he had shown, by injection, that in them the arteries are continuous with the tubes.-)- This was the principal ground for the famous, but now exploded, theory of the existence of exhalant arteries with open mouths, which in the secreting glands opened directly into the excretory canals. It is probable that this accurate observer mistook the efferent vessel of the Malpighian body for a uriniferous tube, for the efferent vessels of those Malpighian bodies that lie near the medullary part of the kidney, take the same course as the tubes, and are often large enough to be readily mistaken for them. The statement, however, of Euysch and others^ that the tubes may be * See bis chapter " de internis glandulis renalibus, earumque continuatione cum vasis," a work not less conspicuous for the sterling accuracy of its observations than for the sagacity displayed in the reasonings based on them. f " Quarum (gland. Malpigh.) nonnullse hie dissolute, in ductus Bellinos degenerant."—Rutschius, Thesaurus Anat. x. No. 86. " Corpuscnla rotunda et glandiformia in totum sunt dissoluta et extricata. Ductus qui dicuntur Bellini, in totum quoque repleti sunt propter repletionem arteriolarum."—Ibid., No. 149. % Baenardus Albinus, after injecting tbe Malpighian bodies from the arteries, " vasa urinae exinde prodeuntia eodem colore farta beatus conspexit."—Albinus, p. 63, 64. Vide Schumlanskti Dissert Inaug. Anatomicam de renam structure. Argentorati, 1782, p. 69. I ?