162 FILIFORM PAPILLAE. The compound papilla of the third variety (fig. 94, d, and figs. 99 and 100) are of the average length of -^th of an inch, and, as their name implies, are more or less conical or filiform in shape. They are distinguished moreover by their whitish tint, derived from the thickness and density of their epithelium. This, indeed, frequently composes two-thirds of their length, being sent off from the sides and summits of their secondary papillae in long pointed processes, which are immersed in the mucus of the mouth, and may assume any direction, though they are generally inclined backwards. These epithelial processes are more stiff, according as the particles of which they consist approach more nearly to the dense texture of A, Vertical section near the middle of the dorsal surface of the tongue :—a, a, Fungiform papillae, b, Filiform papilla?, with their hair-like processes, c, Similar ones deprived of their epi- thelium. Magnified 2 diameters. Filiform compound papillae : — a, Artery, v, Vein, c, Capillary loops of the secondary papillae, b, Line of basement membrane, d, Secondary papillae, deprived of e, e, the epithe- lium. /, Hair-like processes of epi- thelium capping the simple papillae. Magnified 25 diameters, g, Separate nucleated particles of epithelium. Magnified 300 diameters. 1, 2, Hairs found on the surface of the tongue. 3, 4, 5, Ends of hair- like epithelial processes, showing varieties in the imbricated arrange- ment of the particles, but in all a coalescence of the particles towards the point. 5, Encloses a soft hair. Magnified 160 diameters. fig. 100. hair ; and a few among them actually enclose minute hairs, pointed at the end, and provided in some cases with an extremely fine central canal. One of the largest of these we found y^th of an inch long, and from ^° 3000^ °f an mcn thick. (Fig. 100, 2.) The others have an imbricated arrangement of the particles in various degrees, which will be understood without detailed description on reference to fig. 100, 4, 5. Many of them may be regarded as soft or uncondensed hairs, and preserve the same thickness for a considerable length. The structure of the secondary papillae, from which these hair-like processes pass off, differs somewhat from that of the simple papillae in the situations previously described. This difference consists in their larger size and more pointed form, as well