FUNCTIONS OF THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. 215 membrane. It does not appear that the existence of the lymphatic pores, described by MM. Breschet and Koussel de Vauzeme as opening on the free surface of the cuticle, has been confirmed by any subsequent anatomist. I have sought in vain for any such system of vessels in the cuticle, and I believe those distinguished observers must have been deceived by the irregular lines of union between the epidermic particles. It is true that the thickness and texture of the layers of epidermic scales are little calculated to allow of their being permeated by foreign material, whether fluid or gaseous; and, therefore, it is not likely that absorption is effected to any great extent either through their substance or interstices. It seems more consonant with facts to suppose, that this process, especially in respect to solid matters, is carried on by the simple membrane of the sudoriferous ducts, with which external particles would easily be brought into contact with their open extremities. But as these ducts traverse the thickness of the cuticle, and in that part of their course have not (in Man) any proper wall, but are bounded only by the edges of the scales between which they pass, it is very probable that the deeper and softer laminae of epidermic particles may not merely be moistened by the secretion of the ducts, but, under favourable circumstances, may borrow extraneous matters from them, and thus become a part of the absorbing medium. In reference to the question of absorption by the skin, it is interesting to notice the modification of this structure in those lower animals in which this function is manifested in much greater activity than in Man. A better example, cannot, perhaps, be selected for this purpose than that of the Frog. Its epidermis consists of a single layer of scales, and in consequence they do not overlap, but join edge to edge. These scales are not reduced to mere membrane, but always contain a considerable quantity of fluid in their interior. The sweat-pores open here and there in the interstices between three scales, and have true walls, formed out of a pair of modified epidermic particles, adapted to one another, and elongated into the subcutaneous texture. They thus bear a very close resemblance to the stomata of leaves. I lately discovered this singular arrangement in the cast-off cuticle of the animal. It seems undeniable, that, here, absorption is effected by the whole series of epidermic, scales as well as by the pores. But the most remarkable, and at the same time the most recondite, form under which this function is exhibited in the mucous system, is that met with in the alimentary tract. Here, indeed, water and aqueous solutions are imbibed, with great rapidity, into the vascular plexuses of the blood and lacteal systems, as the united testimony of many able experimenters abundantly shows. But from this merely physical process of imbibition is to be distinguished the more mysterious and elective function of chylous absorption, which is conducted by the lacteals alone, and is consequently limited to the regions supplied with that system of vessels. For an account of the present state of knowledge on the highly important subject of the intimate nature of this function, the reader is referred to ' Absorption and Lymphatic