223 FUNCTIONS OP THE MUCOUS SYSTEM. and expression which characterizes modern science. The exposition contained in the article * Mucus' will render it superfluous for me to define its present acceptation. It is denied by Dr. Gkuby that the viscid form of mucus is a normal secretion from any membrane whatever, and he considers its existence as a certain mark of diseased action. This view, if less absolute, would be in a great measure correct, since there is no doubt that in a state of perfect health most mucous surfaces are wholly unprovided with any protection of this kind. If the nasal cavities, the trachea or bronchia, the intestinal or urinogenital tracts, be examined in a healthy animal killed for the purpose, we may search in vain for any slimy covering, such as they are commonly imagined to possess. But in a state of disease, each of these surfaces will secrete great quantities; and it is not a little remarkable, that, even when healthy, if moistened and allowed to undergo slight putrefaction, they will become coated with a viscid fluid, having the physical characters of mucus. Yet the slimy fluid of the mouth cannot with propriety be considered abnormal. The true saliva is not viscid, as it escapes from the ducts of the glands into the cavity of the mouth: it probably becomes so by dissolving the substance derived from the scales of epithelium lining the mouth, as they advance to the surface and flatten. The fluid of ranula is not merely the accumulation of a natural secretion, but seems gradually to acquire its great viscidity by receiving the debris of the epithelium lining the excreting channels, and by the partial reabsorption of its aqueous portion. In the intestinal canal, however, although there is no viscid mucus naturally present, yet there is a large amount of " inspissated mucus" being continually separated from the villi and follicles of Lieberkiihn. This mucus, as already mentioned, is nothing more than the debris of epithelial particles. But chemists have detected, in most of the secretions, a small proportion of a substance nearly allied to mucus, and probably a form of it. There is good reason to believe this to be the product of the membrane lining the excretory passages, and to represent the old epithelium of that membrane. Where the secretion of the gland is fluid and in considerable quantity, it seems to be sufficient to convey away this debris from the surface which it traverses on its way out of the system, as in the salivary and allied glands, the liver, kidney, &c. But where, from the absence of this means of carrying off the debris of the epithelium, it might be supposed to be liable to accumulate and clog the surface, cilia are developed; of which the best example is furnished by the respiratory tract, the nasal cavities, and the tympana. That this is the great office of these wonderful organs upon these extensive surfaces appears to be proved by the fact that the currents they produce are uniformly towards an outlet. Henle has observed this in several parts, and I have ascertained it by experiment in the case of the tracheal and bronchial membrane. In this tract no secretion is visible with the naked eye, but with the aid of the microscope I have found, in perfectly recent animals, minute globules of extreme tenuity and of various sizes, which had all the appearance of mucus oozing from the 2 H