246 MODE OF AGGREGATION OF ELEMENTARY FIBRES. Of the Mode of Aggregation of the Elementary Fibres. The two kinds of fibre whose structure has now been described, are aggregated into masses of very various shape and bulk5 and supplied with areolar tissue, vessels and nerves, so as together to form the organs termed muscles. But if we trace these organs downwards through the animal scale, we come to examples in which solitary- fibres exist without any such appendages, and yet evidently performing the office of, and truly constituting, a perfect muscle. And even many fibres are found, so far smaller than the usual dimensions as to consist of only one or two linear series of sarcous elements, and these perhaps only visibly present near the centre of the fibre, where development is most advanced, and the contractile energy greatest. In such minute and simple forms we may perceive a transition from the striped towards the unstriped fibre, the transverse lines being often irregular, broken, or faintly marked. And we may also discern a clue to the meaning of the structural condition which is found in the complicated muscles of the higher animals. The essential contractile material is the fibre, and its mass is accurately proportioned to the power demanded. If this is below that of a single elementary fibre, the fibre is reduced in proportion; if more is required than one fibre can supply, the size of this is not increased but its number multiplied. The point at which an increase in number supersedes one in size, is that which has been already stated to be the average bulk of the fibre. This differs in the different classes of animals, and corresponds with the demand there may be in each class for vascular and nervous supply. For by the very constitution of the contractile material, it can receive neither vessels nor nerves into its interior substance, and therefore it must be itself subdivided further andjurther in proportion to the amount of these which are to be in contact with its surface. In the compound organs termed muscles, the fibres are usually disposed in parallel sets of 10, 20, 30, or more, surrounded and held together by a delicate areolar tissue, which penetrates more or less among the individual fibres, but does not necessarily invest each one of them from end to end* as it is frequently described to do. Where the fibres are not very large, it is often difficult to discern any areolar tissue at all in connection with them. These first sets admit of considerable motion on one another, in consequence of the looseness of their areolar sheath. Like the elementary fibres themselves their figure is polygonal, for they in their turn are arranged (if the muscle be large enough) into secondary sets, and are flattened by being pressed together. These again are aggregated into tertiary sets, and these into still larger ones, according to the size of the particular organ. All these sets partake of the polygonal figure of the elementary fibres; except the portion that forms a part of the general exterior of the muscle, which is usually more or less rounded. As the packets of fibres are larger, so their angles are more rounded, and their surface covered with a more abundant areolar sheath, and they approach, in