100 DECEPTIVE APPEARANCES. the fibre are formed by the apposition side by side of the dark points seen on the separated fibrillse; but some believe these stripes to be present only on the surface of the fibre, and to be formed by the spiral windings of a filament. Considerable diversity of opinion also exists as to the nature of the alternate light and dark points seen on the individual fibrillse ; some conceiving them to indicate a single spiral, others a double spiral arrangement ; some imagining them to be minute zigzag bendings, others indentations, and others still that they depend on the alternation of two kinds of substance. On this account we shall explain in a few words our reasons for adopting the view above summarily given. A soft mass made up of an immense congeries of hightly refracting particles cannot but exhibit many deceptive appearances when viewed by transmitted light, and through glasses of bad defining power. The slightest disturbance of its interior structure will affect the refractions, which will thus be readily made to disguise and modify the true form and arrangement of its integrant parts; on which account great care and circumspection, and a total freedom from bias, are requisite for an observer who would not be misled to mistake appearances for realities. That the stripes are not caused by a structure distinct from the fibriUse, and present only on the surface of the fibre, is evident from the following facts: 1. That a transverse section of a fibre shows it to be solid, and not hollow; and that the ends of fibrillas, as seen on the section, exist throughout its interior just as on its surface. (Fig. 38.) 2. That fibrillar taken from any part of a fibre are marked with light and dark points, corresponding in distance and force with the transverse stripes of the fibre. 3. That with a high magnifying power, applied to a thick fibre, we may bring all parts of its interior into focus in succession, and perceive throughout the same kind of stripes. The occasional appearance, therefore, of these stripes being confined to the surface is deceptive. They are sometimes more strongly marked there, partly because there is a greater condensation of the tissue there, and partly from the circumstance of the fibre being usually immersed, when examined, in a fluid of less density than itself. This appearance is always greatly diminished by placing the fibre in syrup. But the point of greatest interest is as to the nature of the markings on the individual fibrillar or discs. It is unsafe to come to a conclusion on this question from any appearances seen on the entire fibre; for it is clear that the relative position of the particles may be very easily deranged, and their regularity broken, by the slightest injury to the mass. Two appearances commonly present themselves in examining the striped fibres : in some parts the cross stripes are perfectly rectilinear, or, if curvilinear, parallel in their course; in other parts, these stripes do not extend across the fibre, but are more or less interrupted, forming zigzags and enclosing spaces of a great variety of shape and size, in concert with the longitudinal stripes. In such specimens we