THE OLFACTORY REGION. 172 a remarkable increase in the thickness of this structure, compared with the ciliated region below; so much so, that it forms an opaque soft pulp upon the surface of the membrane, very different from the delicate, very transparent film of the sinuses and lower spongy bones. The epithelium indeed here quite alters its character, being no longer ciliated, but composed of an aggregation of superposed nucleated particles, of pretty uniform appearance throughout; except that, in many instances, a layer of those lying deepest, or almost deepest, is of a darker colour than the rest, from the brown pigment contained in the cells. (Fig. 104, i.) These epithelial particles, then, are not ciliated; and they form a thick, soft, and pulpy stratum, resting on the basement membrane. The deepest layer often adheres after the others are washed away. On looking on the under surface of this epithelium, when it has been detached, we observe projecting tubular fragments, similar to the cuticular lining drawn out of the sweat-ducts of the skin, when the cuticle is removed after maceration. (Figs. 79 and 80.) In fact, glands apparently identical with the sweat-glands exist in this region in great numbers. They dip down in the recesses of the -submucous tissue, among the ramifications of the olfactory nerves ; PIG. 107.—OLFACTORY FILAMENTS OF THE DOG. MAGNIFIED 250 DIAMETERS. and their orifices are very easily seen, after the general brown coat of epithelium has been detached, lying more or less in vertical rows, the arrangement of which is probably determined by the course of those nerves beneath. They become more and more sparing towards the limits of the olfactory region. The epithelium of these glands is bulky, and like that of the sweat-glands, contains some pigment. As the duct approaches the epithelium of the general surface, its wall becomes thinner and more transparent; and, in its subsequent course upwards, it is difficult to be traced, for it does not appear to be spiral, or its particles to differ from those which they traverse. We have sometimes seen rods of epithelium, apparently hollow, left projecting from the basement membrane, after the brown epithelium has been washed away; and these are perhaps portions of the excretory ducts of these glands. The olfactory filaments (figs. 104, 107) are from fifteen to twenty-five in number, and, passing through the apertures of the cribriform plate, may be seen, invested with fibrous sheaths derived from the dura mater, upon the deep or attached surface of the mucous membrane of the olfactory region. They here branch, and sparingly