165 LOCALIZATION OF TASTE. accompanies the sensation of taste; and on this power in the nerves of taste, aided, as is usually the case, by the nerves of touch, we greatly rely for the determination of the question before us. In the first place, all allow that acute taste resides at the base of the tongue, over a region, of which the circumvallate papillse may be taken as the centre, and also on the sides near the base. These parts are supplied solely by the glossal twigs of the glosso-pharyngeal nerves. Secondly, some writers, among whom are Valentin and Wagner, believe the middle and anterior parts of the dorsum of the tongue to be usually incapable of appreciating flavours ; while numerous others hold the contrary opinion, with which our own careful and repeated experiments, on other persons as well as ourselves, quite accord. Sour, sweet, and bitter substances applied to the sides, and especially to the tip, of the protruded tongue, we find to be at once distinguished ; though, when placed on the middle of the dorsal region, they make little or no impression till pressed against the roof of the mouth. In the latter case, however, the taste of sugar is sufficiently distinct, and referred definitely to the spot on which it is laid ; so that its being tasted does not depend on its diffusion or removal from the central to the circumferential parts, as some imagine. The region now spoken of is supplied almost solely by the lingual branch of the fifth nerve, though Valentin has described a twig of the glosso-pharyngeal running on the under surface towards the tip. We conclude generally, with regard to the tongue, that the whole dorsal surface possesses taste, but especially the circumferential parts, viz., the base, sides, and apex. These latter regions are most favourably situated for testing the sapid qualities of food; while they are much less exposed than the central part, to the pressure and friction occasioned by the muscles of the tongue during mastication. The central region, as a whole, is more strongly protected by its dense epithelium, and is rougher, to aid in the comminution and dispersion of the food. Thirdly, the soft palate and its arches, with the surface of the tonsils, appear to be endowed with taste in various degrees in different individuals. Admirault and Guyat. affirm that the sense is acute in a spot about the centre, above the uvula ; and in some individuals it has so appeared to us. We have also found evidence of the existence of taste on the sides and arches of the soft palate in some individuals, but not on the pharynx, gums, or elsewhere. The soft palate and its arches are supplied by the posterior palatine branches of Meckel's ganglion, and sparingly by the glosso- pharyngeal nerves.