78 MR. BOWMAN ON" THE STRUCTURE AND USE OF position, and all the details of the structure of the Malpighian bodies, give strong credibility. It would indeed be difficult to conceive a disposition of parts more calculated to favour the escape of water from the blood, than that of the Malpighian body. A large artery breaks up in a very direct manner into a number of minute branches, each of which suddenly opens into an assemblage of vessels of far greater aggregate capacity than itself, and from which there is but one narrow exit. Hence must arise a very abrupt retardation in the velocity of the current of blood. The vessels in which this delay occurs are uncovered by any structure. They lie bare in a cell from which there is but one outlet, the orifice of the tube. This orifice is encircled by cilia, in active motion, directing a current towards the tube. These exquisite organs must not only serve to carry forward the fluid already in the cell, and in which the vascular tuft is bathed, but must tend to remove pressure from the free surface of the vessels, and so to encourage the escape of their more fluid contents. Why is so wonderful an apparatus placed at the extremity of each uriniferous tube, if not to furnish water, to aid in the separation and solution of the urinous products from the epithelium of the tube? Many recently discovered facts* conspire to prove that secretion is a function very nearly allied to ordinary growth and nutrition; that whereas growth and nutrition comprehend two functions, assimilation of new particles and rejection of old, the old being reconveyed into the blood, so secretion consists in a corresponding assimilation and rejection, and only differs in the old particles being at once thrown off from the system, without re-entering the blood. According to this view, all effete material received into the blood from the old substance of the various organs, must be re-assimilated by an organized tissue, specially designed for the purpose, before it can be eliminated: and all secretions designed for an ulterior use in the ceconomy must be assimilated by such a tissue in order to their separation from the blood. This tissue is the epithelium of such surfaces, as, from their external anatomical position, can at once release the secretion, when its elaboration is accomplished. The epidermis of the skin, the epithelium of mucous membranes, and that of true glands, all more or * Pueeinje, 'Report of the Meeting of Naturalists at Prague in 1837, Isis, No. 7, 1833.' ' Schwann, Froriep's Notiz., Feb., 1838.' 'Henle Muller's Archiv.,' 1838-9. [See also 'Cyclop, of Anatomy,' Art. Mucous membrane, the conclusion of which is only just published, although that part of it relating to this theory was written in December last. Mr. Goodsir, since this paper was read, has ably advocated this theory in a communication made to the Royal Society of Edinburgh on the 30th of March, an abstract of which I have just seen in the 'London and Edinburgh Monthly Journal of Medical Science,' May, 1842. In the same publication is a report of a paper by the same excellent anatomist ou the structure of the kidney, read at the Med. Chir. Soc. of Edinb., on April the 6th. He describes " a fibro-cellular framework, pervading every part of the gland "—analogous to the capsule of Glisson, and "forming small chambers in the cortical portion, in each of which a single ultimate coil or loop of the uriniferous ducts is lodged." The framework is the structure which I have described (pp. 70-1) [ante p. 73] as the matrix. The convoluted tubes and vessels are all imbedded in it.—June 1, 1842.]