RETE MALPIGHII. 146 In the coloured races of mankind, there is, at first sight, some ground for sup- posing the rete Malpighii to be a structure distinct from the other layers of the cuticle, the colouring matter being found to reside chiefly in this part. However various in quantity and hue, the colouring matter always consists of oblong or oval grains of extreme minuteness ( 20Q00th of an inch in their long diameter), and occupying the interior of some of the epidermic particles. In the negro it is accumulated in enormous quantity, and completely envelops the nuclei immediately resting on the cutis. On examining a vertical section of the whole cuticle, we find the colouring matter gradually diminishing as we approach the surface ; and it is most clear that there is no true line of demarcation between the two portions. We may observe the colour of the rete mucosum deeper at points; and a greater proportionate depth of colour is traceable over such points, through all the layers, as far as the surface: we may even discern a sort of stream of coloured grains advancing towards the surface. Hence there can be little doubt that the decrease of colour in the superficial laminae is due to that chemical change which has just been described as gradually taking place in the interior of the epidermic particles. As it is not always easy in this country to 7L n FIG. 86. obtain specimens of the negro's skin, the above facts may be verified in the skin of coloured domestic animals, or, less satisfactorily, in that of some portions of the skin of the white race, as that of the scrotum, of the nipple during pregnancy, or of accidental moles, or freckles.* The bronzing of parts exposed to the sun is effected by a similar deposit of colouring matter in the deeper laminae of the cuticle. The subject here referred to has been invested with additional interest by its supposed bearing on the warmly debated question of the specific difference of the negro from the white man. We need not inquire how far the existence of a distinct cuticular lamina might avail the advocates of such a difference, for we may freely state our conviction that no such peculiar layer exists, The sole variety is in the presence of pigment—which may occur, partially, under many circumstances in the white races, and may be wanting in the true negro.f The reader of the preceding paragraphs will understand how little such processes as maceration, and even the most delicate * Dr. Simon of Berlin lias ably investigated this part of the subject.—' Miiller's Archiv.,' 1840. f See Dr. Prichard, ' Natural History of Man.'