THE PACINIAN" BODIES. 283 internal close capsules, and external ones separated by fluid, which encircle the principal cavity, only accommodated to the irregular conformation. However the central cavity is modified, it always retains its transparent character, and on its inner surface exhibits very faintly marked elongated nuclei, which most probably belong to the wall of the inner capsule. There is little to add to the description of the nerve-tube already given. It is faintly granular in texture, and occasionally regains, at one or more points of its a, a, The internal capsules, b, b, Capsules of the external system, with intervening fluid. Corpuscles, as at c, are seen in all the capsules. The outer capsules show a double layer, d. e, Occasional form of corpuscle in the inter- capsular spaces, n, n, Connecting membrane between two capsules, o, Capillary vessel containing corpuscles or nuclei in its wall, and lying with p, a tubular nerve-fibre in q, the channel of the stalk, the fibrous tissue surrounding them not being represented ; the vessel divides into two branches, one of which perforates the wall of the channel of the stalk and enters an intercapsular space, and the other advances as far as the central capsule. The nerve has the double contour as far as r, where it enters the central capsule ; from that point it is pale and faint. This specimen represents an offset of the central cavity, and of the pale nerve at s. The stem continues its course, t, towards the further end of the central cavity, while the offset follows the curved axis of the subordinate cavity as far as v, where it ends in a bulb by which it is fixed, Several of the capsules are united together at as. FIG. 485.—PORTION OF A PACINIAN CORPUSCLE, FROM THE MESENTERY OF A CAT. MAGNIFIED ABOUT 300 DIAMETERS. course within the central capsule, the dark contour which it had lost on entering it. This is particularly the case when it follows a bend of the cavity, and certainly seems to indicate the presence there of a material elsewhere deficient. It is rare, however, to see this re-assumption of the dark border in any very well-marked degree. The mode of attachment of the end of the nerve-fibre varies, being generally by a single tubercle or conical swelling, sometimes by two, and sometimes even by three such. Whatever the number of branches, however, their aggregate thickness is about the same as that of the simple fibre from which they spring. Where the