96 PROVISIONAL AND PERMANENT CALLUS. accompanied with an interstitial change, converting it into a substance resembling temporary cartilage. Ossification takes place throughout this in a nearly uniform manner, until, towards the fourth or sixth week, the whole is transformed into a spongy, but firm osseous mass, investing the exterior of the broken extremities, and extending between them in the form of a case, by which they are firmly held together. If the medullary canal has been broken across, and the broken ends evenly adjusted, there will be likewise an interior stem of new bone connecting the medullary canal of the fragments in the axis of the bone; the opposed surfaces of the compact tissue being as yet ununited. The callus, or new bone, thus formed, was termed by Dutuytren provisional, as it is gradually absorbed during the succeeding months, while the permanent callus is being slowly deposited between the contiguous surfaces of the compact tissue. It would appear that new bone is formed more exuberantly in the situations of the provisional callus because of their greater vascularity; just as we may suppose the function of ordinary nutrition to be more active in those parts, than in the compact tissue of the bone. The permanent caUus has all the characters of true bone. When the reparative process in bone is interfered with, either by mal-apposition of the fragments, or by constitutional fault, a spurious union may occur by the medium of a ligamentous substance, or even a diarthrodial joint may be formed at the seat of fracture. The ends of the bones become altered in form, and adapted to one another; a kind of false capsular ligament is developed, and sometimes even an imperfect cartilage, and a lining membrane furnishing a lubricating fluid.*! * The following works may be consulted on Bone:—' The Systems of General Anatomy,' already quoted (viz., by Bichat, Beclard, Ckaigib, and Henle) ; Meckel, ' Anatomie Generale Descript. et Patholog.,' torn. i.; Dr. Bostock's ' Physiology,' where will be found an excellent and learned summary of the observations of preceding physiologists on the structure and growth of bone; Mr. Paget's paper on the "Influence of Madder on the Bones of Growing Animals," 'Lond. Med. Gazette,' vol. xxv.; Deotsch, ' De penitiori Ossium structural observationes,' 1834; Miescher, 1 De inflammatione Ossium eorumque anatome generali,' 1836; Muller's ' Physiology,' by Balt, vol. i. M. Flourens has lately published a handsome volume on the growth of bone, illustrated with figures. ■j" [Among the Essays of my Student days at the Birmingham General Hospital was one ' On the Pathology of Fractures,' of which the MS. is preserved. It was illustrated by Cases and Drawings ; the date of it, January, 1835. W. B.]