52 MR. BOWMAN'S ADDITIONAL NOTE ON THE CONTRACTION OF an impression from the contact of the finger, a condition with which may be associated, 4. Extensive ecchymoses, often contrasting strangely with the pallor of contiguous portions. On microscopic examination, while the other affected muscles appear natural, the primitive fasciculi of those which have lost their texture or are ecchymosed (3, 4), are by no means so, but present at certain points characteristic marks of a high degree of contraction; they are swollen into a fusiform shape, and have their transverse striae very much closer together than usual (Plate II. (a)). Elsewhere these primitive fasciculi are, on the contrary, diminished in diameter, and their transverse striae either greatly widened and deranged (b), or altogether obliterated (c, c, c), in consequence of the whole texture of the organ being broken up into those primitive elements, of which the discs are constructed; and here the primitive fasciculi are frequently broken across, with or without a corresponding rupture of the sarcolemma (d, e). The extent of the swollen or contracted parts seems liable to great variety; the one selected for delineation (PI. II.) contains upwards of sixty striae, but others on contiguous primitive fasciculi were more extensive. Some primitive fasciculi in the neighbourhood, which at the point examined presented no rupture, had a very unusual diversity in the proximity of their striae at different points, but everywhere preserved, like the rest, that proportion which I have shown to obtain between the diameter of the primitive fasciculi and the close- ness of their transverse striae. These I conclude to have been ruptured at a point further on. Although the bare detail of these appearances may seem to warrant the conclusion that contractions have taken place in the situation of the fusiform or belly-like swellings, the effect of which has been to stretch and even to disorganise the remaining parts of the primitive fasciculi, yet I shall endeavour to confirm and illustrate it by the following considerations. 1. The Contraction of a Muscle is the Essential Cause of its own Rupture. This is best exemplified in a fragment of a primitive fasciculus of a reptile or fish removed from the body, and contracting between plates of glass. The contraction commences at its extremities, which, becoming swollen, receive the pressure of the upper plate, and may be fixed by it. If so, the intermediate part is stretched and torn as contraction proceeds ; and if an isolated contraction occurs in the centre, the parts between it and the two extremities are similarly affected,* the conditions of the rupture being (]) a partial contraction of the ruptured muscle, and (2) a force * Loc. cit., p. 39.