THE PACINIAN BODIES. 280 tubular, or white nervous fibre leaves the fasciculus of which it forms a part, and carrying with it a process of the fibrous neurilemma, advances right into the centre of a series of concentric ovoidal capsules of fibrous membrane, through a channel which perforates them all, and which has its proper wall, to which every capsule is attached. All the capsules, except from five to twenty of the inner ones, have spaces between them containing a clear watery fluid. These spaces do not communicate with one another or with the channel in which the nerve runs. Each one is distended by its own fluid, and in the natural state is more or less tense, offering resistance to external pressure. The innermost capsule of all is an elongated nearly cylindrical cavity, somewhat larger at the further end, and always contains a clear fluid, which distends it and prevents its sides from falling together. The nerve- tube has the ordinary double dark contour as well as every other character of those found in the ordinary cerebro-spinal fibres until its entry into the central capsule. At that point it becomes less bulky, somewhat flattened (so that its section is oval instead of round), and in particular much paler. The dark border which has distinguished it 11, Pale fibre advancing into the further end of the central capsule. a, Conical swelling by which the nerve is fixed, b, Corpuscle of the inner capsule, c, Capsules of the internal system. I V FIG. 483.—EXTREMITY OF THE PALE NERVE-FIBRE IN THE INNER CAPSULE OF A PACINIAN BODY FROM THE MESENTERY OF A CAT. MAGNIFIED 300 DIAMETERS. FROM HENLE AND KOLLIKER. hitherto now disappears, and if it were not for the transparency of the contents of the capsules its further course would be untraceable. It is, however, when fresh, and with a good light, distinctly seen to proceed along the very axis of the central capsule from one end to the other, and finally to be implanted by more or less of a swelling (fig. 483) into the further extremity of this central compartment. The originally dark border of the nerve-tube does not cease with absolute abruptness, but the two lines of the border coalesce in a somewhat sloping manner, and the pale continuation has merely a single bounding-line, and that so exceedingly thin as not to allow of being described as an investment distinct from the rest of the fibre. This line, as Henle and Kolliker have remarked, is more evident when the edge of the flattened fibre is towards the observer than when the flat surface is upwards, in which latter position it is sometimes altogether absent. Such is the general plan of the structure of these bodies. Their usual length is from -^Q-th to yfrth of an inch, and their stalk is often -y^-th of an inch long. Though usually oval, they are often more or less elongated and bent on themselves. Some- times the internal capsules only are bent, while the outermost are simply oval. In the human subject they are found in large numbers, detached or in clusters, in the