PECULIARITIES OF GLANDS. 210 cells of the serous membrane. The lining membrane of the Fallopian tubes, as well as that of the uterus, is of a compound nature, especially during gestation, and consists of tubules arranged vertically to the general surface. It is to be observed that the cilia only clothe the general surface, and that the epithelium lining the tubules is spheroidal, or intermediate between that and the prismatic. It is a form of the glandular variety, and bears no cilia. Of the Glands.—The varieties apparent in these organs also may be explained by an examination of the modifications and modes of aggregation of the elementary tissues already mentioned. It may be said, in general terms, that the glands are characterised by their solid form, by the great preponderance of their epithelial and vascular tissues, and by the small quantity of their areolar tissue. It is rare for this last to invest every individual involution of the mucous surface in the interior of a gland; but it usually gives a common covering to the whole organ, as well as less complete ones to those subdivisions of it, termed lobes or lobules, which result from the mode of distribution of the bloodvessels and duct, and are designed for the purposes of package or protection. Such an investment is usually termed the proper coat or capsule of a gland, and seems to correspond most nearly with the submucous areolar tissue of the compound mucous membrane, as, for example, that of the intestinal canal. The propriety of these remarks will appear, on a particular application of them. As I before entered somewhat in detail into the internal composition of the liver, it may now be selected for illustration. The epithelium, which in the gall-bladder and larger ducts is of the prismatic kind, becomes bulky and of a flattened spheroidal form, in the lobules. It there also acquires a peculiar character, viz., numerous minute globules of an oily or fatty nature, disseminated within the substance of each particle. The basement tissue seems to cease, and on an examination of a thin section of the lobule under a high power of the microscope, its chief bulk appears to consist of epithelium. Tliere is scarcely a trace of areolar tissue to be anywhere detected. Even the coats of the capacious capillary bloodvessels, in the close meshes of which the ultimate ramifications of the bile ducts are situated, are with difficulty seen, and are of extreme delicacy. The submucous areolar tissue of the hepatic ducts, with which the whole of the contiguous capsule of Glisson should be associated, cannot, when arrived at the lobules, be followed into their interior. It can only be distinguished in very slender quantity, giving them a partial investment, on those aspects which share in forming the portal and hepatic-venous canals, and where, in the angles of union between three or more lobules, a terminal twig of the portal vein runs up to open on all sides into their capillary plexus. No lobule is isolated from the rest by a complete capsule, but communicates immediately by its capillary network, with those near it. The intralobular vein has a similar want of areolar tissue around it; and thus the main mass of the lobule, and of the whole liver, consists of epithelium and a plexus of capillaries. Those lobules, however, which