152 THE SWEAT GLANDS. for it does not find its way into the lymphatic trunks, and is deranged by a complete separation of the cuticle.""" The sweat-glands exist under almost every part of the cutaneous surface. They lie in small pits (fig. 83, d) on the deep aspect of the cutis ; or, if large, entirely in the subcutaneous fascia. As before mentioned, their orifices are discernible in the middle of the cross grooves that intersect the ridges of papilla on the hands and feet. Here their arrangement is necessarily regular, and their size is about that of a pin's head. But in other parts they are irregularly scattered, though in general in pretty equal numbers over areas of the same dimensions. In certain situations, however, the}^ are very large; and, as might be expected, we find their size and number in different districts of the skin to correspond with the amount of perspiration afforded by each. Thus, they are nowhere so remarkable, or so easily examined, as in the axilla, over a space precisely defined by the growth of the hair in the adult. They here form a flat cluster, which, towards the middle, is often an eighth of an inch thick, but thinner towards the edge. It is of a reddish colour, and mammellated by the individual glands Sweat-gland and the commencement of its duct:— «, Venous radicles on the wall of the cell in which the gland rests. This vein anastomoses with others in the vicinity, 6, Capillaries of the gland separately represented, arising from their arteries, which also anastomose. The bloodvessels are all situated on the outside or deep surface of the tube, in contact with the basement membrane. Magnified 35 diameters. fig. 90. which compose it. Some of these are as large as the labial glands, but most of them are somewhat smaller. They are soft, and more or less flattened by lateral apposition with one another. They lie in an atmosphere of delicate areolar tissue, and are covered and permeated with a network of capillary bloodvessels. The sweat-glands can be shown, wherever they exist, by dissecting apiece of fresh integument on its deep surface. They are distinguishable from the pellets of fat, with which they have doubtless been repeatedly confounded, by their pink colour and semi- transparent texture. Where the areolar framework of the cutis is densely interwoven, they are less readily discerned, but injection of the bloodvessels makes their detection easy. On detaching one of these glands, and highly magnifying it, it is seen to consist of a solitary tube intricately ravelled, one end of which is closed, and usually buried within the gland; the other emerges from the gland, and opens on the skin. Sonie- * ' Cycl. of Anat. and Phys.'; art. "Lacteal and Lymphatic System," by Mr. La.se.