241 THE SARCOLEMMA. amongst them, they do not interfere with their mutual apposition and union. These corpuscles are frequently the cause of irregular dark longitudinal streaks seen in the fibre by transmitted light. They usually contain some central granules or nucleoli. [See fig. 295=) It is doubtful whether the corpuscles or nuclei originally present remain through life, or whether successive crops advance and decay during the progress of growth and nutrition. But it is certain, that, as development proceeds, fresh corpuscles are deposited, since their absolute number is far greater in the adult than in the foetus, while their number, relatively to the bulk of the fibre, at these two epochs, remains nearly the same. 7. Of the Sarcolemma, or Tunic of the Elementary Fibre.—This is a simple transparent homogeneous membrane of extreme tenuity, but very tough and elastic, which, in the form of a perfect tube, invests every elementary fibre, adheres to its surface, and isolates it from surrounding parts. It is universally present in voluntary muscles, and may be demonstrated in a variety of ways. When the fibres have been immersed in alcohol, which causes them to shrink, it is often seen wrinkled on their surface ; or when they are cracked or broken across, it frequently remains entire FIG. 294.—FRAGMENTS 01' AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF THE SKATE, HELD TOGETHER BY THE UNTORN BUT TWISTED SARCOLEMMA. and connects the severed fragments. (See fig. 294.) This method of showing it is best followed in the case of the large and brittle fibres of the Skate; or, it may be seen cut across in a general transverse section of a dried muscle. (See fig. 290.) When the texture of the fibre is destroyed by maceration, the broken mass is sometimes retained by the sheath, which thus becomes visible. When the fibre swells by acid, this tunic resists, and the swollen mass emerges at its broken and open end: but, if this is not effected with sufficient celerity, the sarcolemma may give way at different points, being burst by the mass, which thus forms hernia. Such protruding masses being unequally stretched have their transverse and longitudinal lines distorted from their true direction and thrown into very elegant curves. (See fig. 295.) Again, if a fibre still retaining its irritability, be immersed in water, this fluid, on being absorbed, excites contraction, by which it is immediately expelled from among the primitive particles. When thus forced out it usually collects between the fibre and its sheath, raising the latter in form of bullge. (See figs. 301 and 302, and Art. "Muscular Motion.") The progress of this interesting phenomenon evinces the adhesion that exists between the fibre and its sheath. The bulke immediately subside, by the transudation of their fluid, when the part is placed in thick syrup.