160 THE CJRCUMVALLATE PAPILLAE. simple papillae, buried under a common investment of scaly epithelium, that differs from the cuticle only in its greater tenuity and moistness. On the removal of this delicate epithelium by maceration, the papillas stand out free from the membrane, and are seen to consist of an envelope of basement membrane, enclosing a paren- chyma obscurely granular, with the capillary loop already mentioned. After much Vertical section of one of the circumvallate papillee:—a, Central part, b, b, Border, c, c, Fissure between centre and border. The secondary papillee are seen covered by the epithelium. Similar papillee are seen, d, d, on the membrane beyond. Magnified 8 diameters. fig. 96. care, we have not been able to see nervous tubules within them; but they must exist under some important modification, which most probably consists in the absence of their characteristic white substance of Schwann. These simple papillee are represented in fig. 95. The circnmvallate papillee (fig. 94, a, and fig. 96) consist of a central flattened a, Compound papilla on the side of the foramen caecum, injected:—a, a, Arterial twigs, v, v, Veins. The capillary loops indicate the simple papilla?; in one of which, b, the injected matter has been extravasated within the basement mem- brane of the papilla, the outline of which is thus distinguished, c, Capillary plexus, where no papillae exist, e, e, External surface of the epithelium of the papilla. Magnified 15 diameters. One of the simple papilla? of A:— a, v, v, Arterial and venous sides of the capillary loops, b, b, Basement mem- brane, d, Deeper epithelial particles resting on the basement membrane. s, Scaly epithelium on tbe surface. Magnified 300 diameters. FIG. 97. projection of the mucous membrane, of a circular figure, and from ^th to ^th of an inch wide, surrounded by a tumid ring of about the same elevation, but less diameter, from which it is separated by a narrow circular fissure, with, it is said, a few mucous ducts opening at the bottom. In the smaller examples this fissure exists only on one side. The surface of both centre and border is smooth, and invested by scaly