LITERATURE OF MUSCULAR MOTION 275 structure, independent of the fibrilhe, which he believes to be arranged in band-like sets around a glutinous substance in the axis of the fibre. Ficinus* falls into the old error of Prochaska, of imagining the strise to be the result of minute flexures of the fibrilhe, and, like him, he confounds with them the secondary flexures of the whole fibre. Hence, says he, the appearance of globules or particles is false, and only exists during contraction. Other opinions still I have had occasion to allude to in the course of the article "Muscle," which, as before remarked, is founded on observations which have been now two years before the public.t All the best observers are agreed as to the existence of certain appearances, and the discrepancies we encounter in the interpretation of them ought not to bring discredit on all researches of this sort. They place, indeed, in a strong light the difficulty of the inquiry, and the necessity for repeated, varied, and unbiassed observation, with the best instruments we can command. But we are too familiar with conflicting and even opposite statements concerning visible facts, occurring daily under the eyes of everyone, to suppose it possible that any kind of investigation will ever be free from those causes of error, which lie in man's nature, in his own microcosm, and the effects of which can only be neutralized by the common consent of numerous independent observers. As for those difficulties, whatever they may be, which are inherent in the nature of the subject, we cannot doubt that they will be, in due time, appreciated and overcome. Some of the opinions concerning the nature of contraction, entertained by the earlier observers, have been already mentioned ; another, which seems to have been grafted on the doctrine of the vital spirits, was, that these spirits were directed into the fibres and distended them, thus causing them to tumify and shorten. Accordingly, some (as Kobert Hooke and Cowper) considered each fibre or fibrilla to be hollow; which need not excite surprise, when we find the great Mascagni J believing each to be a lymphatic vessel. The first hint of another very noted hypothesis is to be found in the 'Memoirs of the French Academy,' 1724:—L'Abbe de Molieres there says,§ " Les fibres charnues qui s'dtendent selon la longueur du muscle, et dont le raccour- cissement fait son action, se divisent en un grand nombre de petites fibres de meme nature longitudinales aussi, et qui sont li^es les unes aux autres par des filets nerveux transversaux disposes le long des fibres de distance en distance. De plus, les petites fibres charnues ne sont pas droites, mais pliees en zigszags, dont les angles se trouvent aux endroits, oil sont les filets transversaux." Hales|| examined the abdominal muscles of small living Frogs, and saw them thrown into zigzags during contraction, as he imagined ; but he mistook the uncontracted for contracted fibres, as I have * 1 De Fibrse Muscularis Forma et Structural Lipsise, 1836. f 'Philosophical Transactions,' 1840. J ' Prodromo della grande Anatomia—da Franc. Automarchie,' Firenze, 1819. § 'Malgaigne, Anat. Chirurgicale,' vol. i., p. 102, Paris, 1838. || ' Hsemastatics,' p. 59.