MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 44 Fig. 29. Part of a primitive fasciculus from the Boa, showing a partial separation of the discs and the untorn sarcolemma between them. Fig. 30. Primitive fasciculus from the pectoralis major of a human fetus at birth, showing a partial separation of the discs (which are proved by the transverse striae to be already formed), and the sarcolemma in the interval. Pig. 31. Primitive fasciculus partially drawn from its sheath. From the Cod, magnified sixty diameters. Fig. 32. Broken primitive fasciculus from the Boa, showing a loose fragment in the tubular sheath connecting the detached portions. Fig. 33. Primitive fasciculus fractured, the ends drawn asunder, but retained in connexion by the sarcolemma, which is twisted. The ends of the fragments are somewhat rounded by it. From the Boa. Fig. 34. Primitive fasciculus (human), broken according to the discs, and the fragments connected by the untorn sheath. Fig. 35. Broken primitive fasciculus from the Frog, showing the tubular sarcolemma connecting the fragments, in a flaccid or collapsed state, and thrown into irregular folds. Fig. 36. Primitive fasciculus broken, by stretching, into several fragments, all of which are still contained in the untorn sheath. Magnified twenty diameters. From the Skate. Fig. 37. Primitive fasciculus partially broken up by its own inordinate contraction into its component segments. The debris all contained in the unmutilated sheath. Corpuscles are seen on some fragments. From the Frog. Fig. 38. 1, 2, 3. Gradational appearance of disturbances of the striae from dis- union of the primitive component segments of the fasciculus, the parts retained in contact by the sheath. From the Skate. Magnified 100 diameters. Fig. 39. Part of a primitive fasciculus of a Skate, swollen by liquor potassas, showing a hernia through a ruptured aperture in the sarcolemma. In this hernia the striae are distorted and variously curved. The corpuscles are elongated in the direction of the fibrillae, and indicate the direction taken by the particles of the protruding mass. Detached corpuscles are represented with their nucleoli (a). Fig. 40. A similar specimen from the human subject, swollen by phosphoric acid. The hernias are seen more completely in profile. The corpuscles are less elongated, but some have nucleoli (a). Their average diameter is 2oVoth of an inch. Fig. 41. Sarcolemma occupied by Trichinae. From the Eel. Fig. 42. Trichina extruded from the sheath, and uncoiled, showing an appearance of granules. This is -^-th of an inch long.