MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 12 saw, and compared under the microscope with a string of blood-globules, was nearly as large as many examples of the primitive fasciculi, and very much greater than a primitive fibrilla, of the existence of which he seems to have been ignorant. It is therefore erroneous to say, as has frequently been done, that the theory of a beaded structure of the fibrillae originated with, or was supported by, him. He advocated the existence of a beaded tissue, but not such as I believe to exist in nature. To point out his fallacy, therefore, is not to overturn what is here contended for. And with regard to the proportion in size which such beads or particles may chance to bear to the globules of the blood, it is a question long ago set at rest by Leeuwenhoek and Muys, the latter of whom gives accurate relative admeasurements of these parts, and points out their disparity. It is a point, too, which cannot determine the question, since no necessity has been or can be shown why the beads of muscle should conform to the size of the blood-globules, or even of their nuclei. But Mr. Skey's most pointed argument is this : " That in the Cod and Haddock, in which the striae are of extreme beauty and delicacy, the ultimate filaments present no appearance of a globular arrangement, but are distinctly continuous and uniform throughout their whole length." Yet, even granting this fact to be substantiated, it would scarcely invalidate the strength of the arguments above advanced, which speak to positive appearances. However, having been led to make the muscles of these fishes an object of special study, I am not able to confirm Mr. Skey's remark, but have found their flesh to present the same characters with that of others of the same class, many of which have been also made the subject of observation, as the Skate, Whiting, Halibut, Salmon, &c. The most obvious microscopic characters of these seem to be the following. The primitive fasciculi are large and nearly transparent, so that when highly magnified their aspect is not unlike that of glass. This, as might be supposed, is shared with them by the muscle of many Crustacea. The fibrillae are in general distinguished by longitudinal lines, taking the direction of the fasciculi, these lines being here and there exceedingly strong and decided, and leaving but a very narrow light streak between them. In other parts they are fainter, but always parallel, unless the fibrillae are bent by violence from their course, in which case they seem to be easily disarranged, as though their lateral connexion with one another were but slight. The striae upon these fasciculi are very delicate, and quite regular, if the parallelism of the fibrillae be preserved; but where this is disturbed, the striae are, as it were, broken bo pieces, and the individual fibrillae which they crossed, bear upon them the disarranged fragments of the markings of which they consisted. Either the striae or these markings are everywhere clearly visible, except about the very thick longitudinal dark lines described, where they are always faint, sometimes undistinguishable ; a fact which seems sufficiently explained by the presence of those lines absorbing and obscuring by their depth the very delicate striae that cross them at right angles ; and except also where a slight and irregular obliquity of the fibrillae causes so complicated an interference of the longitudinal lines among the cross markings of each, that these last