MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Having at least sometimes discerned in it an appearance not unlike what would result from such a texture, I am induced to conjecture so, but the matter is very doubtful. Its external surface seems to be quite smooth and free, being in contact with the capillary and cellular network of the organ, which embraces each fasciculus, in more or less profusion, according to the animal, and the particular muscle, I have never as yet seen any appearance which could give countenance to the opinion that either nerves or vessels penetrate among the fibriUse, and I am induced to believe that no capillary vessel ever perforates the sarcolemma, which seems to constitute an effectual barrier between the parts within and those without. The inner surface of the sarcolemma ofteD presents irregularities, as if some attachment of the fibriUse to it had existed ; but it never bears upon it the smallest mark of the transverse strise, or of any regular marking, unless, as does occasionally happen, some few fibrillse, or parts of them, remain adherent to it. But this very rarely happens, the whole of the fibriUse usually evincing a greater facility of separation from the sheath than from one another. A few are seen thus adhering in fig. 75 a. The inner surface of the sarcolemma, however, is naturally adherent to the outer- most fibrillse, and most probably in a particular manner.* From some appearances frequently presented by the fasciculi of insects at their margins, and of which an example is given in fig. 70, it would appear that this adhesion takes place to the most prominent parts of the fibrillse, or, in other words, to the rims of the transverse discs which result from their union. The outer scolloped line in similar cases has no doubt been often mistaken for the outer margin of the fibrillse. It is, in fact, indicative of the bulging sarcolemma, which is bound down to the prominent extremities of the light strise, between which the real margin of the fibrillse recedes from it, with an intervening fluid. Now in this specimen the interior of the fasciculus is in focus ; a central row of corpuscles is there seen, and the view of the margin thus represented is, in fact, such as would be obtained by a horizontal section. This fasciculus is thus proved to present on its surface a series of transverse grooves, to which the sheath does not adhere, and in which a fluid is collected. It seems doubtful whether the attachment of the sarcolemma to the prominence of the successive discs be so complete as to isolate the intervening grooves from one another. Another evidence of this adhesion is the following: when the hernice are formed as above mentioned, it is of course so far destroyed. Now the intumescence is occasionally so great, that the sarcolemma is rent extensively on all sides, and fragments of it only remain, not embracing the whole fasciculus. Wherever the fibrillse have detached themselves from the sheath they bulge freely, but where they continue to adhere to its remnants, they are confined and constricted, and the strise cannot expand (fig. 46). This adhesion will afford an explanation of an appearance that for some time puzzled me. It is described by Mr. Skey in the following terms : "a fibre * [Schwann seems to regard the sheath as unadherent to the proper muscnlar tissue (' Untersuchurigen,' p. 166), an opinion which the following considerations show to be erroneous.] E