47 MOVEMENTS OP VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. Fig. 72. Smaller primitive fasciculus from the same, in water. The central portion only is contracted, and shows approximation of the striae, increased thickness of the fasciculus, and the sarcolemma elevated in vesicles. Fig. 73. Primitive fasciculus from the Tipula, contracted in water, showing the sarcolemma raised by the fluid, and the central row of corpuscles. Fig. 74. Primitive fasciculus from the larva of the Libellula, contracted in water. The sarcolemma is raised into a large bulla. Fig. 75. Primitive fasciculus from the Frog, contracting in water, the two ends being fixed. The consequence is the rupture of the fLbrillse at intermediate parts, as a, b, but some fibrillar remain attached to the sarcolemma at a. Bulla? are formed, c. The transverse striae are much disarranged by the irregular contraction, and are besides so exceedingly fine in some parts that they cannot be represented. Fig. 76. Primitive fasciculus of the Newt (Triton palustris), contracted in water, showing the sarcolemma elevated extensively by the fluid, and thrown into transverse folds, which are independent of the fibrillae. Fig. 77. Margin of a primitive fasciculus from the Chaffinch (Fringilla ccelebs), contracted in water; the sarcolemma raised in vesicles. Fig. 78. Another, with the adhesions of the sarcolemma to the fibrillae more extensively ruptured, and a bulla formed. Fig. 79. A similar specimen from the fore-arm of the human subject, the limb having been amputated in consequence of a severe injury. Fig. 80. Primitive fasciculus from the Mouse, contracted in water. The sarcolemma much raised by the fluid. Fig. 81. Primitive fasciculus from the Libellula depressa, bent, probably by the instrument. At the concavity of the bend the striae are approximated and the fasciculus is puckered irregularly. Fig. 82. Primitive fasciculus from the Blue Bottle Fly (Musca vomitorid), partially contracted. Fig. 83. Primitive fasciculus from the Staghorn Beetle, contracted in different degrees. The thickening of the fasciculus everywhere corresponds with the amount of the approximation of the striae. Fig. 84. Primitive fasciculus from the land Lizard (Lacerta agilis), partially contracted in syrup, showing approximated striae and increased thickness, but no bullae. Fig. 85. Broken extremity of a primitive fasciculus from the Frog, partially contracted at a, while at b the stria? are more widely separated and its breadth is less. Here also the corpuscles are more elongated than in the contracted portion. From the same specimen as figs. 48 and 49. Fig. 86. Primitive fasciculus from the Eel, partially contracted in water. The contracted part is thickened, its stria? approximated, and its sheath