STIMULI TO MUSCULAR CONTRACTION. 109 which exhaustion, in the voluntary muscles, is attended with the sensation called muscular fatigue. The contractility of muscles, therefore, is being ever exerted, in obedience to the equable stimulus of tension, without fatigue, in the production of what we have termed passive contraction; when it is affected by a powerful, partially-applied stimulus, active contraction results, inducing the necessity for subsequent rest. But there seems no good ground for supposing the contractile force to differ in its nature, when exhibited under these different modes of action. Stimuli to Muscular Contraction. Whatever is capable of inducing contraction in the muscles, when either naturally or unnaturally applied to them, is termed a stimulus. In the living body, the muscular fibres are in most instances made to contract by the immediate influence of the nervous tubules distributed among them; and this influence, however called into play, should be styled the nervous stimulus, or the vis nervosa. This nervous stimulus, then, is simply the effect of such a condition of the motor nerves as enables them to induce contraction in muscular fibres which are in the due relation to their terminal loops. Of the nature of this condition, and of the mode of its production, we are as completely ignorant, as we are of the nature of all those other conditions of the nervous system on which the manifestation of its various phenomena depends; but we know some little of the agents by which the nerves are thrown into this state. The chief of them are volition, emotion, and impressions carried by the afferent nerves to the nervous centres, and there affecting the efferent, or motor nerves, independently of volition or consciousness; but to these are to be added various impressions from diseases and injuries of the motor nerves, either at their origin or in their course, together with pressure, heat, chemical substances, electricity, &c, applied to their texture. The former are the natural excitants of the nervous stimulus in the living body; the latter may be proved to possess this property by observation, and by experiments on nerves distributed to muscles, either in the body, or soon after their removal from it. The power of inducing contraction in the muscles is an endowment of those nerves only which have a certain organic connection with the muscles; and these nerves are, therefore, distinguished as motor. There are other stimuli of muscle besides the vis nervosa, which occasion contraction in the living body; but, in general, these affect only the hollow muscles. Experiment has, indeed, shown these muscles to be under the influence of motor nerves derived from the spinal marrow; but it seems probable that some of them, at least, are normally excited to contract by the stimulus of stretching or distension, to which they are peculiarly liable from their arrangement as investments to hollow viscera. Muscles have not the capacity of elongating themselves that has sometimes been Q 2