0 MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. them, and attempted to explain their composition. Among these, Dr. Hodgktn and Mr. Lister describe them, but offer no opinion as to their nature. Dr. Schwann adduces several reasons for thinking them formed by the lateral parallelism of the beads of contiguous fibrillae.* Muller adopts this explanation, and M. Lauth holds the same view.t Mr. Skey, in the 'Philosophical Transactions' for 1837, advances a directly opposite opinion. He says that the fibres (primitive fasciculi) are in reality tubes containing a soluble gluten, round which the fibrillse are arranged in sets; that these are finally surrounded, bound together, and retained in their position by the transverse striae, " which are the woof to the warp of the longitudinal filaments, but instead of being interlaced with them, they form circles around, and attached to the most prominent part of the longitudinal filaments, to which they are intimately united" (p. 375). Lastly, so lately as 1839, M. Mandl, speaking of the primitive fibrillae, avows the following opinion: " Les fibres elementaires sont reunies dans une gaine qui est striee a sa surface, et l'ensemble de cette game et des fibres elementaires constitue les faisceaux elementaires, qui sont les parties elementaires des muscles. Voici le resultat de nos r£cherches sur la structure de cette gaine. Les lignes noires (dark transverse striae) ne sont, selon nous, que les bords des lignes blanches (light transverse striae): ces lignes blanches sont les filets du tissu cellulaire qui enveloppe sous forrne de spirale les fibres elementaires, et forme de cette maniere la gaine." J It will at once appear from the preceding statements that the nature of these markings is yet a matter of dispute among those who have the most care- fully studied this subject, and therefore that a new examination and new facts are required to determine it. Enough has also been said to show that their nature cannot be ascertained without elucidating the composition of the whole fasciculus, a circumstance which induces me to make the following discussion subservient to explain the general construction of this proximate anatomical element of muscle. In the first place, it is to be remarked, that no doubt seems to exist as to the fact, that when alternate light and dark spaces are seen on individual fibrillge, detached from the mass, they are precisely equal in width to the light and dark striae on the fasciculus from which they have been withdrawn. There is therefore an evident correspondence in this respect, between the striae on the fasciculus and the markings on the fibrillae, a correspondence which is so exact, that it is reasonable to believe the appearance must be the result of the same cause in each condition ; and either that the striae must be formed by the coaptation of the markings on neighbouring fibrillae, or that these markings must be impressions received from the investing striae, as from a distinct and independent structure. Which of these alternatives is the correct one, I shall now attempt to show. * ' Mul e '3 Phys.,' as translated by Balt. p. 880. t 1 L'lnstitut,' No. 70, 1834. X 1 Ti-aite pratique du Microscope,' Paris, 1839, p. 74-5. C /