MR. BOWMAN ON THE MINUTE STRUCTURE AND 32 Of the Extremities of the Primitive Fasciculi, and their union to other Structures. This has always been a subject of considerable interest, and an examination of it is necessary to complete the idea of a' primitive fasciculus. I presume it to be well understood, that all fasciculi of voluntary muscle are fixed immediately to some tissue analogous to the fibrous. Such at least is the case in the higher classes, and in the lower it is probably universally true. The gross form under which this fibrous tissue is arranged, it is not my purpose to speak of, as nothing more is here intended than to inquire how its minute fibrils are disposed at their attachment to the fasciculi, and how these fasciculi terminate. The observations which follow are few in number, and it must be left for the future to determine how far the facts elicited are of general application. In Mammalia and Birds it will always be found a very difficult task to detach from the mass a small set of tendinous fibrillse, with the primitive fasciculi belonging to them, in such a way as to gain an unequivocal view of their union; and all my attempts to do this have hitherto failed. This result is to be attributed to the smallness of the fasciculi, and to the abundance and intricacy of the cellulo-vascular network by which they are commonly surrounded, these circumstances tending to prevent the disengagement of the individual fasciculi, and therefore of the minute detachment of tendinous fibrillas with which each is furnished. In Fish, neither of these obstacles occurs, and accordingly in this class the most satisfactory evidence on the subject is to be found. So many deceptive appearances are apt to present themselves in an investigation of this nature, that no conclusion can be fairly drawn from any fasciculus not entirely isolated ; for it is impossible correctly to appreciate the relations of muscular and tendinous parts when mutually intermingled. From inattention to this circumstance, I conceive that excellent physiologist Treviranus has fallen into the error of supposing the fasciculi to taper much towards their extremities, so as to be inserted among, and to be embraced by, the fibrils of the tendon. * In the case of Fish, it is only necessary to procure a fragment (as, for instance, from the Skate), in which the primitive fasciculi arise by tendon. If a minute portion of this tendon be now severed with the muscle attached to it and laid upon glass, it may be split up without difficulty by means of needles into very minute particles. Some of these may be tendon alone, some muscle alone, but others will consist of them both united, and will here and there present accidentally a fasciculus distinct from the rest, with its little bundle of tendinous fibrils attached. Care must be taken not to confound the clear diaphanous sarcolemma, which is almost sure to be made apparent in this procedure, and may be wrinkled, with the undulating fibrous tissue. In such * ' Beitrage znr Aufklarung der Erscheinungen und Gesetze des organischen Lebens,' von 0. R. .Treyiranur, Tab. VIII, Fig. 59.