229 MUSCLE. ' Cyclopaedia of Anatomy and Physiology,' Vol. 111. (SrN. MGs, Muscidus, muscular or sarcous tissue; vulgo, flesh, meat.) This term is applied to certain fibrinous contractile organs, either elongated and fixed at their two extremities, or hollow and enclosing a cavity, which in all the higher animals are the seat of the power by which locomotion, circulation, the prehension and passage of food, the expulsion of many of the excretions and of the young, as well as other diversified functions, are performed. It is also used to denote the peculiar contractile material or tissue, constituting the principal and essential portion of such organs. This tissue is always arranged in the form of fibres, which in many minute animals occur singly, each serving the purpose of a perfect muscle. But they are usually aggregated in very great numbers, surrounded with a network of capillary vessels, and connected to one another by areolar tissue. The nervous tissue is univer- sally associated with the muscular, however small may be the quantity of the latter; it is through this that the stimulus to contract is ordinarily transmitted, and, when the mass is great, made to affect simultaneously many contiguous fibres. A muscle is the organ resulting from the union of these several parts. Muscles are styled voluntary or involuntary, according as they are, or are not, subject to the influence of volition, and they have been usually so classified. But, however convenient these terms may be in the ordinary language of physiology, they cannot be applied, in a strict sense, to the purposes of classification without obvious objections. Many muscles, especially those under the immediate dominance of reflex nervous action (as the respiratory and sphincter muscles), partake of both characters, since volition can interfere only temporarily with their contraction; and ail muscles, even the most confessedly voluntary, are subject to emotional and instinctive influences, in which the will has no share. The attempt to introduce an intermediate or mixed class, which has been generally sanctioned, while it is an acknowledgment of the