CONDITIONS OF SMELL. 175 only by the stimulating substance in solution; and whether air or water brings the stimulus to the surface of the membrane, is made important only by the special adaptation of that surface to the contact of one or the other medium. We may here notice two important reasons for the situation of the organ of smell, so high up in the nose, in addition to the obvious one of the protection from mechanical injury thus afforded to so delicate a part. These are, that it is thereby screened from the contact of air either too cold or too dry. The interposition between the outer orifice and the organ of smell'of projecting and folded membranes of active secreting powers, and containing large reservoirs of blood (in the plexuses already described), seems designed to answer both these purposes. These parts break the force of the current, warm it, and impart that degree of moisture which is best calculated to aid the solution of the odoriferous particles on the sentient surface to which they are afterwards applied. The remarkable complexity of the lower turbinated bones in animals with acute scent, without any ascertained distribution of the olfactory nerves upon them, has given countenance to the supposition that the fifth nerve may possess some olfactory endowment, and seems not to have been explained by those who rejected that idea. If considered as accessory to the perfection of the sense in the way above alluded to, this striking arrangement will be found consistent with the view which limits the power of smell to the first pair of nerves. We have already remarked that the exercise of the sense of smell is not attended with more than a general idea of locality. The sensation is even more simple in this respect than that of taste. Unless the experiment be made, we know not that we are constantly exerting the sense on two sides, for the double sensation is perceived as a single one. Our observations on the anatomy of the olfactory nervous apparatus may assist in the explanation of this fact.