INTERNAL STRUCTURE OF MUSCLE. 238 diameter in the longitudinal direction of the fibre, as indicated by the distance between the transverse lines, is thus shown to be:'* English Inch. No. of Observations. In the Human Subject Wb~5 • • • 27 „ Mammalia generally ...., Toioo 15 „ Birds xoioo 7 „ Reptiles , nsoo 7 „ Fishy... ittoo 20 Insects ■95V0 >... 8 Their diameter in the opposite direction or that marked by the distance between the longitudinal lines is less, often by a half, but liable to variety from the cause already specified. In a paper, entitled ' On Fibre,' read before the Eoyal Society, on the 16th December and the 6th January last,t Dr. Barky describes the fibrilla to be a fiat filament rounded at the edges, and deeply grooved along the middle line on both Treated with weak citric acid, showing the round refracting particles separated from one another. The cut edge of the tubular sheath of each fibre is also seen. PIG. 290.—TRANSVERSE SECTION OP THREE ELEMENTARY FIBRES OF THE DRIED PECTORAL MUSCLE OP THE TEAL (QUERQUEDULA CRECCA). its surfaces. He states that this fiat filament consists of two spiral threads placed side by side, with their coils interlacing': that it " is so situated in the fasciculus (elementary fibre) of voluntary muscle, as to present its edge to the observer;" and that the curves of the spiral thread, then seen, seem to have been the appearance that "suggested the idea of longitudinal bead-like enlargements producing the striae." In Dr. Barry's opinion "the dark longitudinal striae are spaces (probably occupied by a lubricating fluid) between the edges of flat filaments, and the dark transverse striae, rows of spaces between the curves of the spiral threads," of which each flat filament consists. "In a postscript, the author observes, that there are states of voluntary muscle in which the" (doubly-spiral, flat) "longitudinal filaments have no concern in the production of the transverse striae, these striae being occasioned by the windings of spirals, within which very minute bundles of longitudinal" (doubly-spiral, flat) " filaments are contained and have their origin." This description, so entirely opposed to the more simple view above given (and * Auct., loc. cit., p. 474. t ' Proceedings of the Royal Society,' No. 51.