287 THE PACINIAN BODIES. mass, and again emerges at the base of the follicle, but at the opposite side from that at which it entered. It is remarkable that the nerve is much thinner at its exit, and reduced to an exceedingly delicate filament (/), which proceeds along the tendinous band to the next follicle, penetrating its wall and joining its nerve at the point of its flexion under the granular mass (k). " On examining under the microscope the rounded granular mass, made flat by the compressor, and after the removal of the membranes of the follicle, we see the nerve running lengthwise over it from end to end, the anastomosing branch coming from the preceding follicle (k) and the very delicate filament which proceeds to that next in order (I). We further remark that the nerve of the follicle, in its course along the granular mass, gives off a great number of elementary fibres, which disseminate themselves through the mass and thus reduce the nerve to so small a size. Sometimes I have fancied that these fibres formed loops and returned; but I have never obtained a clear view of their termination. I am no less doubtful regarding the course of the elementary fibres of the anastomosing branch coming from the preceding follicle. Sometimes I have seen these fibres return towards the slit in the tendinous" band and rejoin the nerve in order to regain the centre. In other cases I have seen these fibres pursue their primitive direction, and pass on with the rest towards the opposite end of the granular mass. Hence I imagine that the fibres of the anastomosing bundle do not all follow the same course, and that while some advance into the granular mass, others turn back towards the centre through the slit in the fibrous band." " It occasionally happens that two nervous twigs pass from the main branch to the same follicle. When this happens, there are always two distinct granular masses." M. Savi then describes accurately the arrangement of the several series of these follicles in the Torpedos which he examined, an account of which is not necessary for our present purpose. In one example he found that the follicles amounted in all to two hundred and fourteen. We cannot adduce these remarkable and peculiar structures as at present throwing any light on the function of the Pacinian corpuscles, since we must confess with M. Savi that as yet we are entirely ignorant both of their real nature and use. Nevertheless the resemblance is such as, it is hoped, will warrant the introduction of the preceding account, which is new in this country, and very interesting in itself. It is unnecessary to recapitulate the several points of similarity and difference, which, after the detailed description of each now offered, may be readily apprehended by the reader himself. It only remains that we should direct attention to the very admirable memoir of Henle and Kolliker on this subject. They corroborated the principal results of Pacini, and added many most valuable observations which the use of higher powers of the microscope and perhaps greater experience in research had enabled them to make. These observations M. Pacini has recently informed me he has himself almost entirely confirmed. An excellent abstract of their labours appeared in the 2 Q