MINUTE MOVEMENTS OF CONTRACTION. 114 immediately after coagulation, is a property too nearly allied to the contractility of muscle (a form of fibrine) not to give it additional credibility. In regarding contractility, therefore, as a property of the living muscular fibre in general, it is meant that it resides in it as a property without which it would not be muscle; and in such a manner, that no particle, however microscopic, can be detached from muscle which does not of itself, and independently of the rest, possess this property as long as it possesses vitality. Of the Differences between the Minute Movements of Muscle in Passive and Active Contraction. In passive contraction.—It is perhaps impossible in the higher animals to observe the nature of the microscopic movements occurring in muscle in its ordinary state or during its passive shortening ; but, in the lower and smaller forms of life, this may sometimes be accomplished. It may always appear doubtful, however, whether any contraction that may be here witnessed be entirely of the passive kind, and consequently the movements here noticed are not worthy of implicit reliance. But it is more easy, and quite as satisfactory, to bring a muscle under inspection, which is still in situ and in equilibrium with its antagonists : in such, contractile force is being still exerted, though its full effects are prevented from taking place. This may be done in various small animals: perhaps the tail of small fish, or of the tadpole of the common Frog, is the best adapted for the purpose. In the latter, deprived of its integument, we have obtained such a view, and have found the contraction to be quite uniform throughout, the transverse stripes being stationary and equidistant. This is nothing more than might have been expected on a priori grounds. The contraction, being the effect of the passive exercise of the property shared equally by all parts of the tissue, would be equal in equal masses ; and, as the elementary fibres are of precisely equal width and substance from end to end, no part of them could predominate in action as long as only the equable stimulus coincident with their natural state of tension were applied. It may be concluded, therefore, that" passive contraction is attended by a movement absolutely uniform throughout the whole mass of an elementary fibre, or of a muscle. In active contraction, the case is far otherwise, as may now be considered proved by a considerable body of evidence. It might be argued, prior to direct proof, that active contraction must be partial, at least, at its commencement, because the stimuli which occasion it cannot, in their very nature, be applied to every particle of the fibre at one and the same instant of time. Certain features of the phenomena witnessed under the microscope in fragments