269 ACTIVE CONTRACTION. * ' Philosophical Transactions, 1841, p. 69. The appearances presented by muscle that has been ruptured by its own inordinate contraction in fatal tetanus in the human subject will supply the link wanting to connect the foregoing phenomena with those occurring in healthy con- traction during life: for tetanic spasm differs from sustained voluntary contraction only in its amount and protracted duration, and in its being independent of the will, none of which circumstances are of essential importance in regard to the nature of the act of contraction itself. The muscles are so arranged in the body that no amount of contraction which the mechanism of the bony and ligamentous framework will permit one of them to undergo, can by possibility occasion the rupture of a relaxed antagonist: to be ruptured the antagonist must be itself contracted. But a muscle, if contracting beyond its natural amount, may be so resisted by mechanical powers, in or out of the body, as to rupture itself. Hence, the contraction of a muscle is a necessary condition, and generally the essential cause of its own rupture: the other condition being a force greater than the tenacity of the ruptured part, holding its ends asunder; this latter may be either the active or passive contraction of antagonists, or mere The uppermost state is that previous to the commencement of contraction. a, a, a, Successive "waves" of contraction seen moving along one margin of the fibre, marked by a bulging of the margin, by an approximation of the transverse stripes, and by a consequent darkening of the spots. b, b, b, Similar " waves " still moving along the fibre, but engaging its whole thickness. FIG. 303.—STAGES OF CONTRACTION SEEN ON ONE OCCASION IN AN ELEMENTARY FIBRE OF THE SKATE. mechanical resistance. But it is evident that for a muscle to be ruptured by its own contraction, that contraction must be partial, as is shown in the case of the Frog's muscle already mentioned. An examination of muscle ruptured in tetanus is found to bear out these observations in the fullest manner.* The elementary fibres present numerous bulges of a fusiform shape, in which the transverse stripes are very close. These swellings or contracted parts are separated from one another by intervals of various lengths, in which the fibre has either entirely given way or is more or less stretched and disorganized. These appearances are met with after all contractility has departed; they are the vestiges of the spasm during life. Yet in other muscles, which have been likewise convulsed, but not ruptured, they are not found. Their presence is, therefore, the result of the rupture. They admit only of the following explanation: the contractile force has operated at the points contracted, and by its excess the intermediate portions have been stretched to