261 STIMULI OF MUSCLE. Whatever interrupts nutrition interferes with it, and it matters little whether such interruption arises from the want of its own exercise or from deficiency of arterial supply, arising from causes either local or general. Inertness of a muscle, whether the consequence of diseased nerves or otherwise, will be attended with more or less atrophy and weakness, according to its degree, and to that alone. For full information concerning the varieties in the intensity of this power, and in its durability in muscles after systemic death or after their removal from connection with the nervous and vascular systems, the reader is referred to the article " Irritability." I would merely remark in corroboration of the views there maintained, that in the animal series the size of the elementary fibres and the consequent amount of their vascular supply, independently of the more or less arterial quality of the blood, is accurately proportioned to their irritability. Thus Birds, whose irritability is most exalted and most evanescent, have the smallest fibres and the most richly supplied with blood ; while Eeptiles, Fish, and Crustacea, in which the irritability is most enduring, have fibres of large dimensions and provided with a vascular web of small comparative size (fig. 286, art. "Muscle"). The same is true as regards the heart compared with the voluntary muscles. b. Of the Stimuli of Muscle. The stimuli which induce contraction have been classed into remote and immediate. Properly speaking, the remote stimuli are stimuli to the nerves and not to the muscles; they cause a change in the motor nerves, which are thus made to excite contraction by their immediate and topical action on the muscles. Of these the chief are volition, emotion, and impressions carried by the afferent nerves to the nervous centres and involuntarily reflected thence ; but various diseases and injuries of the motor nerves, either at their origin or in their course, and pressure, heat, chemical substances, electricity, galvanism, &c, applied to their texture, are to be ranged under the same head. The nature of the change thus induced in the motor nerves is entirely unknown. There seems, however, no ground for believing that it differs with the particular stimulus which induces it, and certainly a clear distinction ought ever to be drawn between it and its exciting cause. The nerves, when this change is induced in them, occasion the muscles to which they are distributed to contract. The stimulus they give is an immediate one, and is termed the vis nervosa or the nervous stimulus of muscle. It acts topically on the muscular fibre. The other immediate stimuli are physical and chemical; they are rarely exerted in the living body, except in the case of the hollow muscles. It has already been stated that trustworthy experiments