253 DISTRIBUTION OF MUSCLE IN THE BODY. in front of the prostate. They are also found in the sphincters of the anus and vagina. The unstriped fibre is met with in the alimentary canal from the middle of the oesophagus to the rectum, and constitutes the double layer investing that tube. It also forms the muscular coat of the bladder and that of the uterus. The dartos owes its contractility to the presence of fibres of this variety, which, in consequence of the abundant admixture of areolar tissue, has not hitherto been clearly recognised ; but it may be detected by the addition of acetic acid, which, by bringing into view the peculiar corpuscles it contains, distinguishes it from both the white and yellow fibrous elements of the areolar tissue. But even without this chemical test, to which some may object, it is possible to discover this form of muscular fibre in the dartos, by the characteristic appearances which have been already attributed to it. Since satisfying myself of the real existence of this fibre in the dartos, I have on many occasions detected a very decisive peristaltic action advancing from one side of the scrotum to the other, and continued for a considerable period, yet of a kind which it was impossible to refer, with any degree of probability, to the cremaster. In one case particularly, occurring in the practice of Mr. Feegusson, where the tunica dartos was much hypertrophied, in connection with an old stricture of the urethra, we observed this peristaltic contraction of a very vigorous description. The fibres which have been described as peculiar to the dartos seem to be nothing more than a certain modification of the areolar tissue in that region. In the corpora cavernosa penis of the Horse there is a large quantity of this kind of fibre, as may be ascertained by microscopic examination, although Professor Muller* seems indisposed to consider it really muscular. He states that " viewed in the microscope these fibres do not present any resemblance to muscular fibres," but my own examinations of them have not confirmed this statement. They appear to me to have all the characteristics of this variety, and by acetic acid are seen to contain a great number of corpuscles. Moreover they appear to consist chemically of fibrine. Professor Muller has failed in exciting contraction in them in the living horse, but this is not a conclusive fact as to their nature, for it may be, and probably is the case, that they do not act unless stretched by the erection of the organ. In the quiescent condition of the part they may be considered to be in a contracted state, like the muscular coat of an empty intestine, and so would naturally appear to be unaffected by the stimulus of galvanism. The erection of the penis seems with great probability to be attributable to pressure exercised on the superficial veins of the organ by a continuation of a structure analogous to the dartos, and certainly containing the unstriped muscle, which is continued over the base of the penis under the skin. The erection of the nipple also occurs, on any mechanical irritation, with a motion so very much resembling the peristaltic action of muscular fibres, that I have little doubt such would be found, constituting a layer, under the skin in that region. And it may be matter of inquiry how far the general contractility of the skin is dependent on a * 'Physiology,' by Balt, second edition, p, 250.