UNSTRIPED MUSCLE. 245 of an inch. From this account of the appearance of these fibres, it might be expected that their discrimination from other tissues would be often difficult. And, in fact, it is so to an inexperienced eye. The peculiar texture, however, the size, the soft margin, and, above all, the presence of numerous elongated oval corpuscles, with two or three granules in their centre, are characters which, taken together, I believe to be decisive. As a number of fibres usually take a parallel course together, the bulgings occasioned by the corpuscles give rise to partial longitudinal shadows, extending for some way beyond the corpuscles, in the intervals of the fibres. As these irregular longitudinal shadows occur pretty uniformly throughout an aggregation of fibres, .and as some are necessarily out of focus, while others are in focus, the whole mass commonly presents a very confused reticulate appearance, which has given rise to an almost universal notion that these fibres do, in reality, interlace one with another, and do not run parallel. This notion, however, is, in most cases, erroneous. It is doubtful a, Treated with acetic acid, and showing the corpuscles. b, Fragment of a detached fibre, not touched with acid. FIG. 298.—UNSTEIPEP ELEMENTARY FIBRES FROM THE HUMAN COLON. whether these fibres are invested in a sarcolemma: none has hitherto been detected in an unequivocal manner. It is also still a matter of speculation how they terminate, or whether they in all instances have a termination. In the case of the more or less circular set of fibres, inclosing the small intestine, for example, it is uncertain whether each fibre surrounds the canal once, returning into itself as a ring, or, more than once, as a spiral, or whether it passes only partially round it, the rest of the circle being completed by others. Whether the areolar tissue (the representative of the fibrous) that is always found in connection with these fibres, serves to give them an attachment by union with their extremities, or by involving them in its meshes, is also altogether unknown. In the gizzard of Birds the ends of the fibres are united to white fibrous tissue, thus making an approximation to the striped fibre, as they do in colour. But I have not been able, after diligent search, to detect the true transverse stripes, which Ficinus describes to exist in this organ.