MOVEMENTS OF VOLUNTARY MUSCLE. 35 can be said in support of the hypothesis of the approximation of the globular enlarge- ments of the primitive fibrilla?.""* I was endeavouring eighteen months ago to inspect, under the microscope, a fasciculus of a Frog, excited by galvanism, and had induced contractions in the specimen so often that it seemed no longer to obey the stimulus applied to it. Continuing to regard it, however, I was surprised to perceive a spontaneous and slow movement, Which consisted of an approximation of the transverse stria?, with a corres- ponding shortening and thickening of the fasciculus. What I have now to offer is chiefly embodied in this simple fact, though somewhat amplified by subsequent researches. From these I am enabled to say with confidence, that in that form of contraction which takes place as the last act of vitality, the transverse stria?, that is, the discs of the fasciculus, approach each other, become thinner, and expand in circumference; in other words, the contractility of muscle is independent of any inflections of its fasciculi, and resides in the individual segments of which these are composed. I have taken from the animal, immediately after death, a miuute piece of some muscle, generally of the extremities, and laid it upon glass, then quickly tearing it into many fragments with needles, so as to separate the fasciculi as much as possible from one another, have moistened it with water, and covered it with a lamina of mica : a magnifying power of 300 or 400 diameters has then been employed. In this manner the muscle of animals possessing transverse stria? may be seen in a contracting state. The contraction commences usually at the cut extremities of the fasciculi, (fig. 85), which are thereby rendered more opaque. The stria? are here seen to be two, three, or even four times as numerous as in the intermediate part, and also proportion- ally narrower and more delicate. As the process goes on, the stria? advance towards those of the contracted portion, and on approaching it are gradually ranged in close apposition to them. The line of demarcation between the contracted and uncontracted portions is well defined, and as fresh stria? are absorbed from the latter into the former, it is seen to make an onward progress. As it advances upon the uncontracted portion, this diminishes rapidly in length, without the contracted part experiencing an equivalent elongation; the consequence of which is a shortening of the whole fasciculus. The contracted part augments in thickness, but in a degree, I think, incommensurate with its diminished length, so that its solid parts actually lie in smaller compass than before ; they are brought into closer apposition with one another. The effect of this is, that the water that has been absorbed is pressed out from the fibrilla?, and accumulates, where it is best able to do so, between the fibrilla? and sarcolemma, giving rise to the appearances of bulla? already described. It often happens, but not necessarily, that besides the approximation of the stria?, the contracted portion exhibits inflexions at distances, sometimes nearly regular, but generally not so, and including from five to thirty, or forty stria?. These inflexions are very slight, and engage either a part or the whole of the fasciculus. They do not * ' Physiology,' Baly's Translation, p. 889-90. F 2