81 THE MALPIGHIAN BODIES OF THE KIDNEY. Explanation of the Plate. PLATE IV. Fig. 1. Malpighian tuft—Horse. The injection has penetrated only to the capillaries. a. The artery, af. One of its terminal twigs (or the afferent vessel of the Malpighian body), d. The dilatation and mode of breaking up of the terminal twig, after entering the capsule: the division of the tuft into lobes I, I, I, I, is well seen. *, i. Intervals between the lobes. Magnified about eighty diameters. Fig. 2. Malpighian tuft—Horse. The injection has penetrated through the tuft and has filled the efferent vessel, here coloured yellow for distinctness' sake. af. The afferent vessel, d. Its dilatation and mode of division. m, m. Malpighian capillaries, ef. Efferent vessel springing from them, and leaving the capsule between two primary branches of the afferent vessel. Magnified about eighty diameters. Fig. 3. Malpighian body—Horse. The injection, after filling the primary branches of the afferent vessel, has burst into the capsule and passed off along the tube. It has not filled the tuft of capillaries, which consequently are not seen, nor has it spread within the capsule over the whole surface of the tuft. af. The afferent vessel, d. Its dilatation and mode of subdivision, c, c. The outline of the distended capsule, t. The tube passing from it. m. Situation of the uninjected Malpighian tuft. Magnified about seventy diameters. Fig. 4. From the Horse. The injection has penetrated from the artery, through the Malpighian tuft, into the plexus surrounding the tubes. It has then ruptured the vessels of the tuft, filled the capsule, and passed off along the tube. a. Arterial branch, af. Afferent vessel, c. Capsule distended. t. Tube. ef. Efferent vessel, p. Plexus of capillaries, surrounding other tubes not injected. Magnified about thirty diameters. Fig. 5. From the Horse. The injection has passed as in the last-described specimen, but without rupture of the Malpighian tuft. a. Branch of the artery. af, af. Afferent vessels, m, m. Malpighian tufts, ef, ef. Efferent vessels. p. Plexus surrounding the tubes, st. Straight tube in cortical substance. ct. Convoluted tube, in ditto. Magnified about thirty diameters. Fig, 6. From the Horse. Malpighian tuft, from near the base of one of the medullary cones, injected without extravasation, and showing the efferent vein branching like an artery, as it runs into the medullary cone. a. Arterial branch, af. The afferent vessel, m, m. The Malpighian tuft. ef. The efferent vessel, b. Its branches entering the medullary cone. Magnified about seventy diameters, M