93 and 24 oz. to the quart: they retain their germinating power for three years. The plant has an agreeable aromatic smell and a warm pungent taste. The fragrance of its leaves is due to an essential oil, which gives it its flavouring value for culinary purposes, and is also the source of its medicinal properties. It is in flower from May to August. Stocks may also be increased by dividing old roots, or making cuttings, by slipping pieces off the plants with roots to them and planting out with trowel or dibber, taking care to water well. This may be done as soon as the weather is warm enough, from May to September. The old clumps may be divided to the utmost extent, and provided each portion has a reasonable bit of root attached, success is assured. The perfume of Lemon Thyme is sweeter if raised from cuttings or division of roots, rather than from seed. Although Thyme grows easily, especially in calcareous light, dry, stony soils, it can be cultivated in heavy soils, where, however, it is less aromatic. It dislikes excess of moisture. To form Thyme beds, choose uncultivated ground, with soil too poor to nourish cereals. If Thyme grows upon walls or on dry, stony land, it will survive the severest cold of this country. If the soil does not suit it very well, and is close and heavy, some material for lightening it, such as a little road-sand or sweepings, ensuring reasonable porosity, will be welcomed and should be thoroughly incorporate — in a gritty soil it will root quickly, but does not like a close, cold soil about its roots. According to Gattefosse, the Thyme is " a faithful companion of the Lavender. It lives together with it in perfect sympathy and partakes alike of its good and its bad fortune." Generally speaking, the conditions most suitable to the growth of Thyme are identical with those favoured by Lavender. The plant it often overrun by Dodder (Cuscuta epithymum). If this happens, cut off the affected plants and burn them, or use a solution of sulphate of iron. At the close of the summer, as soon as the herbs have been cut as much as necessary, the beds should be attended to, all weeds cleared away and the soil well forked on the surface. In winter, protect the plants from frost by banking up with earth.