37 Description. The root is perennial and sends up square, erect and branched stems, 2-3 ft. high, which are very leafy and covered with a mealy down. The heart-shaped, toothed leaves are also covered with a soft, close down, especially on the under sides, which are quite white with it. so that the whole plant has a hoary, greyish appearance, as thoug*h it had had dust blown all over it. The flowers grow on short footstalks in dense whorls, which towards the summit of the stem are so close as almost to form a spike. They are in bloom from July to September. The individual flowers are small, the corollas t wo-lipped, the upper lip straight, of a whitish or pale pink colour, dotted with red spots, the anthers a deep red colour. The calyx tube has 15 ribs, a distinguishing feature of the genus Nepetj, to which this species belongs. The plant has an aromatic, characteristic odour, which bears a certain resemblance to that of both Mint and Pennyroyal. It is owing to this scent that it has a strange fascination for cats, who are so fond of the odour of this herb that tbey will destroy any plant of it that may happen to be bruised, so as to emit its peculiar pungent scent, rolling on it, tearing it to pieces and chewing it with the greatest pleasure, seeming to delight in the scent almost as much as in that of Valerian. Cultivation. Catmint is easily grown in any garden soil, and does not require moisture in the same way as the other Mints. Seeds can be sown either in autumn or spring, where the plants are to remain, thinning out the seedlings to about 20 ins. apart each way. They require no attention, and will last for several years if the ground is kept free from weeds. The germinating power of the seeds lasts five years. The stock may also easily be increased by dividing the plants in spring. Uses. The herb was formerly in popular use, especially for flavouring sauces, but it has fallen into disuse in this country as a culinary herb, though in France, the leaves and young shoots arcs still much used for seasoning, and it is regularly grown amongst kitchen herbs for the purpose. But there, in this country and America, it has an old reputation for its value as a medicinal tea. Catmint tea, infused from the dried herb, is stimulating, useful in colds and a valuable drink in cases of fever, because of its action in including sleep and producing perspiration without increasing the heat of the system. It is good in restlessness, colic and nervousness,