42 popularly modified int^> M Clear Eye." from the fact that the seeds have been employed for clearing the sight, being so mucilaginous, that a decoction from them placed in the eye, would " clear " it from any small foreign body, the presence of which might have caused irritation and by acting as an emulsion would remove the same by lubricating it away. Sometimes we find the plant not only called " Clear Eye " on this account, but also " See Bright" and even 11 Eye- bright." though this name rightly belongs to another plant— Euphrasia ojftdnalit. Clary is a biennial plant, its square, brownish stems growing \>.—3 feet high, hairy and with few branches. The leaves are arranged in pairs, almost stalkloss and are large, almost as large as the hand, oblong and hflailillljisd wrinkled, irregularly toothed at the margins ainl covered with velvtey hairs. The flowers are in a long, loose, terminal spike, on which they are set in whorls. The lipped corollas, similar to the (iardeii Sage, hut smaller, are of a pale blue or white. The flowers aru interspersed with largo coloured, ineuihraneous bracts, longer than the spiny calyx. Moth corollas and bracts are generally variegated with pale purple and yellowioh-white. The need.-, ai e blackish brown. " contained in long, toothed husks," .-is an old writer descnU's the calyx, and retain their germinating power foi three war*. The whole plant |H)sHesses a very strong, aromatic scent, somewhat resembling that of I'olu. while the taste is also aromatic, warm and slightly bitter. Cultivation. < iary is propagated by seed, which should be sown in spring. When til to move, the seedlings should be transplanted to an open s|x>t of ground, a foot ajmrt each way, if required in large quantities. After the plants have taken root, they will require n» further care but to keep them free of weeds. The winter and spring following, the leaves will be in perfection As the. plant is a biennial only, dying off in the second summer, after it has ripened seeds, there shall be young plants annually raised for use. In August, the leaves may be gathered, and if this harvest is judiciouslv done, the production of foliage should continue until midsuinmei of the second year, when the plant will probably Mower and die off, being only a biennial, so that it will be necessary to rely upon new plants for supplies of leaves. Young plants should therefore be raised annually for use. Uses. According to Ettmueller, this herb was first brought