28 and one-third inch broad, stalked and peculiarly smooth, soft and cool to the touch, very slightly toothed, and if slightly bruised exale a very delightful scent of cloves. There are several varieties, differing in the size, shape, odour and colour of the leaves. The Common Basil has very dark green leaves, the curled-leaved has short spikes of flowers, the narrow- leaved smells like Fennel, another has a scent of citron, another somewhat of a Tarragon scent. Lettuce-leaved Basil has large pale- green, wrinkled leaves like those of lettuce ; Purple Basil has lilac flowers, and. grown in strong suu, purple leaf-stems and young branches. Cultivation. Basil dies down every year in this country, so that the si eds have to be sown annually. If in a very warm sheltered sjxjt. seeds may be sown in the. open, about the last, week in April, but they are a long time coming up. and as the)' are very small (al)out t8,000 t<> the ounce) it is preferable to sow in a hot l>ed. ath011 the end ot March, and remove to a warm border in May, planting loins, to a foot ajwirt. Basil flourishes best in a rich soil and sunny situation. First gathering's of foliage should begin by mid-summer, when the plant starts io blossom. Then they may be cut to within a few inches of the ground. A second or even a third crop may be obtained if care is taken to keep the surface clean and o|xmi. A little dressing of quickly available fertiliser applied at the time is helpful. Some of the beat plants should be left uncut for seed, which should ripen by mid summer.' For winter use of the fresh leaves, plants may 1h; transplanted from the garden into frame-, or seedlings may be started in Scptem- lier. The seeds should be sown 2 to the inch and the seedlings transplanted to pots or boxes, in the latter h or >> inches a|>art each way. Basil is chiefly used fresh, but may also be dried in the manner already described, being gathered in July, and stored dry for winter use. In common with other labiates, Basil, both the wild and the sweet, furnishes an aromatic, volatile, camphoraceous oil, and on this account is much employed in France for flavouring soups, especially turtle soup, which derives its peculiar taste chiefly from