66 Ant/iriscus cynajiium, a noxious weed of a poisonous nature, infesting gardens and fields. The leaves of the latter, though similar, and by the unobservant, to be mistaken for the true Parsley, with unpleasant results, are, however, of a rather darker green and when bruised, emit an unpleasant odour, very different to that of Parsley. They are, also, more 6nely divided Wheh the two plants are in flower, they are easily distinguished, Aiithriscw having three tiny, narrow, sharp-pointed leaflets hanging down under each little umbellule of the white umbel of flowers, whereas in the (iarden Parsley, there is usually only one leaflet under the main umbel, the leaflets or bracts at the base of the small umbellules only being short and as line as hairs. .1 '. leaves, also, are glossy beneath. (Jerarde called A uthnsi us " Dog's Parsley," and says the whole plant is of a naughty smell." Like most biennials. Parsley develops only a rosette of leaves during the first year. During the second season, the erect, branched, grooved flowei -stems are thrown up, a foot or more in height, bear- ing umbels of small greenish flowers. The fruits are light brown or gray, convex on one side .tnd flat on the other, the convex side mat ked with fine rib*. Cultivation. Parsley requires an ordinary, good well- worked soil, but a moist in- and a partially-shaded position is best. A little soot may be added to the soil. The seed may be sown in drills, or broadcast, or, if only to l*> used for culinary purposes, as edging, or between dwarf or short- lived crops. For a continuous supply, three sowings should be made: as early in February a* the weather p<Miiiit,s, in April or early in May. and in duly and early August—the last. Uung for the winter supply, in a sheltered position, with a southern exposure. Sow in February for the summer crop and for drying purposes. Seed sown then, however, takes several weeks to germinate, often as much as a full month, though germinatiug may be hastened by a few days soaking in tepid water. The principal sowing is generally done in April: it then germinates more quickly and provides useful materi.il for cutting throughout the summer. A mid-August sowing will furnish good plants for placing in cold frames for winter use. An even broadcast sowing is preferable, if the ground is in