6 scented Verbena, pungent, aromatic and most refreshing. Catmint and Hyssop grown together make a charming border, the soft blues of the blossoms blending pleasingly, and the grouping being still more effective if Lavender and Rosemary are grown behind them, especially if the bed be backed by a grey stone wall. How to Prepare a Herb Dinner. W e have touched on the uses of the various herbs with regard io meat dishes, but it is easy to serve a tasty little luncheon for vegetarians, in which each course owes its distinguishing feature to the common culinary herbs, though before going into the matter, a " Dinner of Herbs '' may not sound very attractive. A Parsley Soup may -tart the meal, and may be pre Mftd from the following recipe, much used in Belgium : Thicken Hoof and butter together a* for melted butter sauce, and when propcilv eonkeii thin tn soup eoiisistency with milk. Season with • all. pep|M>r and onion juice. Boil up, ami just before serving add sufficiently finely-chopped p:»r*ley to colour the soup green. Serve with fried crouton*, A Savoury Omelette may follow the soup. Prepare the otnclcttt :n tin oidinary manner, and before folding n add a layer of chopped Thyme. Tarragon and (hives; or the horbs may l-e stirred into the heatcn-up egg* before cooking the omelette. Instead of an omelette, savour eggs stuffed with sweet herbs ami served in cream sauce may be preferred. Boil the eggs haul, cut them lengthwise and remove the yolks. Mash and season them, adding the herbs, as finely chopped as possible. Shape again like yolks ami replace in the whites Cover with a hot cream sauce or im lied bultcr sauce and serve at once. Both Savoury OmoJette and Stuffed Eggs may be garnished with shredded parsley. Willi the Kggs may be served a dish of Onion Potatoes, pre- pared by placing in alternate layers slices of the two vegetables, with 1ml,- lumps of initter, seasoning with pepper and salt, adding milk even with the top layer, and baking till done. A Mixed Salad may follow: to the heart lca\cs of Lettuces add Nasturtium leaves and blossoms, Tarragon, Chives, Mint, Thyme and any other green leaves of aromatic herbs. Dress