43 into use by the wine merchants of Germany, who employed it as an adulterant, infusing it with Elder flowers and then adding the liquid to the Rhenish wine, which converted it into the likeness of Muscatel. It is still called in Germany Muskateller Salbei (Muscatel Sage). The leaves can be used for flavouring, either fresh or dried, in the same manner as the Garden Sage, but the plant has almost fallen into disuse as a culinary herb. Though employed in ancient times and in the Middle Ages for its curative properties, being mostly employed in disordered states of the digestion, it is now little esteemed also in this respect. How- ever, of late there is a big trade being done with it, mainly in France, for the extraction of its oil as a perfume fixer, and there is undoubt- edly a big future ahead for it for this purpose, not only on the Con- tinent but also in this country. The oil has a highly aromatic odour, resembling that of ambergris, and is known commercially as Clary Oil or Muscatel Sage Oil. CORIANDER.—Coriandrum Sativum (Linn.). Coriander, an umbelliferous plant indigenous to southern Europe, is found occasionally in iBritain in fields and waste places, and by the sides of rivers, but is rare and scarcely even naturalised, though frequently found in a semi-wild state in the East of England, having escaped from cultivation. Coriander was originally introduced from the East, being one of the herbs brought to Britain by the Romans. As an aromatic stimulant and spice, it has been cultivated and used from very ancient times. It was employed by Hippocrates and other Greek physicians, and in the Book of Numbers, xi. 7, we read that Moses compares Manna to a Coriander seed. The name Coriandrum, used by Pliny, is derived from koros, a bug, in reference to the foetid smell of the leaves. Description. It is an annual, with erect stems, 1-3 feet high, slender and branched. The lowest leaves are stalked and pinnate, the leaflets roundish or oval, slightly lobed. The segments of the uppermost leaves are linear and more divided. The flowers are in shortly-stalked umbels, 5-10 rays, pale mauve, almost white, delicately pretty. The seed clusters are very symmetrical and the