30 is much used for culinary purposes, for flavouring soups, stews, sardines, figs, etc. Care must lie exercised not to use in error the leaves of the ('herry Laurel, which have sometimes been mistaken for those of the Hay Laurel for flavouring, with disastrous results J they are full of prussic acid, and the water distilled from them is a virulent poison. An oil is expressed from the berries of the Sweet Hay, Oleum Laurinum, used medicinally as a low! application for Rheumatism, ami also to OOmtnunicate a pleasant odour to external remedies. An infi]si.,n ua- alto formerly made of the leaves and berries as a stomachic, but they are now rarely used internally as medicines. In classic days, when the people crowded into Home during the time of the Italian plague, they were all recommended to go to Li 'i ntinu : (now San Lorenzo) because the Sweet Hay there grew ineii-at abundance, and the inhalation of air impregnated with its odours was considered a sure prevention against infection. The Essential Oil of Hay is not distilled from the Sweet Hay, but from the flesh leaves of Pimento Acris, a native of the West Indies It \n not used internally, but solely for making Hay Hum and Florida Water for tiolet articles. BORAGE. Borage Officinalis (Linn.). The Common Borage is a hardy annual plant, coining origi- nallv from Aleppo, but now naturalised in most parts of Europe and lie,|iiently found in this country, though mostly only on rubbish heaps and near dwellings, and generally to be regarded as a garden escape. It belongs to the order Boraginaces. It has long been grown freely in kitchen gardens, both for i:s use.s as a hei li and for the sake of its flowers, 01 which beet are very fond, as it vields much excellent honey. Description. The whole plant is rough with white, stiff, prickly hairs The round ^'"im, ;ibout a foot and a half high, are branched, hollow and succulent; the leaves, alternate, large, wrinkled, deep green, oval and pointed, 8 in. long or more, and about 1£ inch broad, the lower ones stalked, with stiff, one-celled hairs on the upper surfaces and on the veins below, the margins entire, but wavy. The flowers which teminate the cells, are bright blue and star-shaped, distinguished from those of every plant in this