io; light, porous, well-drained loam, and left undisturbed and well shaded till they show signs of growth, when they may be trans planted. They must never be allowed to become dry, and green- wood cuttings made during the summer should, especially, always be given the coolest, shadiest corner in the garden. Cuttings taken in spring may be set out in permanent quarters as soon as rooted, but summer cuttings should generally be left in their beds until the following spring, though they may be removed for winter use to the greenhouse. Division. Sometimes clumps of herbs of spreading growth, such a* Mint, are divided into pieces about Gins, square, a sharp spade being employed, and the squares placed in new quarters and tirmly pressed into the soil. If division is done in early spring, before growth »taila. little damage is done to the plants. It is no; too late, even early in May, to increase the stock of Mini, Balm, Marjoram, Thyme. Hyssop and Savoury, by off sets or division of the root*. If done in showery weather they start away freely, and make good plants before late summer. They must be well-waterod. The artificial methods of propagation, especially by cuttings or layers, have the advantage of propagation by means of Seeds, in the eerlaintv of perpetuating the desired characters of any individual plant that may proTe to have specially good points. Such plants, if more productive than the other- among which they have appeared, should Always be utilised at stork, as the yield of the plantation will thereby be increased. Hv expending a little more time, any desired number of plants may, of course, be obtained from seed. Transplanting. The ordinary methods of transplanting apply equally to herbs. It may not often be practicable to grow the plants in small flower-pots and set them in the garden when thoy have formed a small hall of roots, though this is the ideal way. A more generally followed and successful proceeding is to grow them in the greenhouse, in seed pans and then in shallow boxes, set several inches apart, as soon as large enough to handle, and where they should be allowed to grow for several weeks and form a mass of roots. When to be set in the garden in permanent quarters, the plants should be broken carefully apart by hand with as little loss of root as possible. If grown in little nursery beds in the open, or in hot beds or cold frames, the plants should be "pricked out," i.e.,