85 may be boiled with broad beans and green peas, in the same manner as Mint is employed. It is also boiled with dried peas in making pea soup. For garnishing it has been used as a substitute for Parsley and Chervil. Savory has aromatic and carminative properties, and though chiefly used as a culinary herb, it may be added to medicines for its aromatic and warming qualities. It was formerly deemed a sovereign remedy for the colic. Culpepper thought highly of them and tells us : " Keep it dry by you all the year, if you love yourself and your ease, and it is a hundred pounds to a penny if you do not," and goes on to enumerate certain complaints for which it may be used as a remedy. He considered Summer Savory better than Winter Savory for drying to make conserves and syrups. WINTER SAYORY. Winter Savory is a dwarf, hardy, perennial, glabrous or slightly pubescent under shrub, also a native of Southern Europe. The stems are woody at the base, 12 to 18 ins. high, much branched and spreading. The leaves are oblong, linear and acute, the lower ones often wedge shaped and obtuse. The flowers in bloom in June are very pale purple or pinkish, aud are arranged in spikes or racemes. Cultivation. It is propagated either from seeds, sown at a similar period and in the same manner as Summer Savory, or from cuttings and divisions of root. It is woodier and more bushy than Summer Savory. Cuttings formed of young side shoots, with a heel attached, may be taken in April or June, and will readily root under a hand glass, or in a shady border outside. Divisions of the roots should be made in March or April, and plante obtained in this way, or from cuttings, should be permanently inserted during a showery period in the latter part of summer, in rows, at the distance of one foot apart. The plant grows better in a poor, stony soil than a rich one. In a rich soil, plants take in too much moisture to stand the severity of our winter. In the soil that suits it, Winter Savory makes a good-sized shrub. It will continue for several years, but when the plants are old the shoots are short and not so well furnished with