65 The Greeks held Parsley in high esteem, crowning the victors with chaplets of Parsley at the Isthmian games, and making with it wreaths for adorning the tombs of their dead. The herb was never brought to table of old, being held sacred to oblivion and to the dead. It was reputed to have sprung from the blood of a Greek hero, Archemorus, the fore-runner of death, and Homer relates that chariot horses were fed by warriors with the leaves. Greek gardens were oftened bordered with Parsley and Rue. It is undoubtedly the most widely grown of all garden herbs. Several cultivated varieties exist, the principal being the common plain-leaved, the curled-leaved, the Hamburg or broad- leaved and the celery-leaved. Of the variety crispicm, or curled- leaved, there are no less than 37 variations ; the most valuable are those of a compact habit and with close, perfectly curled leaves. The common sort bears close leaves, but is of a somewhat hardier nature than those of which the leaves are curled; the latter are, however, superior in every way. The variety crispum was grown in very early days, being even mentioned by Pliny. The Hamburg, or turnip-rooted Parsley is grown only for the sake of its enlarged fleshy tap-root. No mention appears to have been made by the ancients, or in the Middle Ages, of this variety, which Miller in his " Gardeners' Dictionary' (1771) calls " the large- rooted Parsley, and which under cultivation develops both a parsnip- like, as well as a turnip-shaped form." Miller says, This is now pretty commonly sold in the London markets, the roots being six times as large as the common Parsley. This sort was many years cultivated in Holland before the English gardeners could be prevailed upon to sow it. 1 brought the seeds of it from thence in 1727 ; but they refused to accept it, so that I cultivated it several years before it was known in the markets." At the present day, the " long white " and the " round sugar " forms, are sold by seed-growers and are in esteem for flavouring soups, stews, &c, the long variety being also cooked and eaten like parsnips, in taste resembling celeriac or turnip- rooted celery. Neapolitan, or celery-leaved parsley is grown for the use of its leaf-stalks, which are blanched and eaten like those of celery. The plain-leaved parsley was the first known in.this country, but it is not now much cultivated, the leaves being less attractive than those of the curled, of a less brilliant green and coarser in flavour. It also has too close a resemblance to Fool's Parsley,