9 seeds id many instances are very small and slow to germinate, they are often sown in shallow boxes or seed pans, and when large enough to be handled transplanted to somewhat deeper boxes —a couple of inches being allowed between the plants, being finally transplanted into permanent quarters in the garden when conditions are favourable, the soil moist and warm, and the season settled. The seed may also be sown out-of-doors in drills, about the end of April or early May, and thinned out as it comes up, but the process just described is more economical. Fennel, Basil, Knotted Marjoram and Dill are generally sown out-of-doors, as they are not subject to the attacks of birds as many other seeds ar e. Layering. Many of the perennial herbs, such as Sage, Thyme and Savoury are easily propagated by layering, the stems being pegged down and covered lightly with earth. These plants are " stem-rooteis " and, under favourable conditions of moisture and temperature, roots are generally formed in three or four weeks, wherever the stem is in contact with the earth, when the stem may be separated from the parent plant and removed to new quarters. If there are several branches on a stem, each of these may be used as a new little plant, provided it has some roots, or has a rooted portion of the main stem attached to it. Layering is the simplest and most satisfactory method of propagation under ordinary conditions, for the stems are practically certain to take root if left undisturbed, and the rooted plants if transplanted with ordinary care will rarely fail to grow. Thus less time is taken than with plants grown from cuttings, and much less than with those raised from seed. In short, stock raised by layering will produce a crop sooner than the plants obtained by other modes of propagation undertaken at the same time. Cuttings. Those herbs like the Mints and those related to them, which have creeping underground stems, are easily propa- gated by means of cuttings—each joint of the stem producing a new plant if placed in rather moist soil. The other perennial and biennial herbs are readily propagated by means of stem cuttings or " slips." The cuttings are made either of fully-ripened wood of the preceding or the current season, or they may be of firm—not succulent—green stems. The cuttings should be about 4 or 5 ins. long. After trimming off all but a few of the upper leaves, the cuttings should be plunged nearly full depth in