89 which unlike other members of its genus, are undivided. It blossoms in August, the small flowers, in round heads, being yellow mingled with black, and rarely fully open. The roots are long and fibrous, spreading by runners. Cultivation. Two kinds of Tarragon are cultivated in kitchen gardens. The French Tarragon, with very smooth, dark green leaves and the true Tarragon flavour, which is a native of the South of Europe, and Russian Tarragon, a native of Siberia, with less smooth leaves of a fresher green shade and somewhat lacking in the peculiar tartness of the French variety. As Tarragon rarely produces fertile flowers, either in England or France, it is not often raised by seed, but it may be readily propagated by division of roots in March or April, or by cuttings struck in a little warmth when growth is commencing in spring or later in the summer, under a hand-glass, placed outside. A few young plants should be raised annually to keep up a supply. When transplanting, divide clumps into small portions and pull to pieces with the hand, but do not chip them into sections with the spade, or you will damage the roots. Plant the pieces a foot apart each way, and leave them undisturbed for four years. As they spread a good deal, they will soon cover the ground freely. Tarragon loves warmth and sunshine, and succeeds best in warm, rather dry situations, and a little protection should also be afforded the roots through the winter, as during severe frost they are liable to be injured. Both varieties need a dry, rather poor soil, for if set in a moist soil, they are likely to be killed by our winter. The green leaves should be picked between Midsummer and Michaelmas. The foliage may also be cut and dried in early autumn for use in a dry state afterwards. The beds should then be entirely cut down and top-dressed to protect from frost. Sometimes strong, young plants planted in a sheltered border from October to December, will produce green shoots all through the winter if the frost be not too severe, but, as a rule, if green leaves are required during winter, a few roots should be lifted in the autumn and placed in heat: it will require but a small quantity to maintain a succession. The leaves are generally used in the fresh condition but may be dried in the usual way in bunches, if desired. For this purpose