54 "Purge me with Hyssop, and I shall be clean." But though well known in ancient times, this plant is probably not the Hyssop used to sprinkle blood by the Jewish priests, which is now considered to be a species of Marjoram (Origanum maru), which smells of and apparently contains the modern antiseptic Thymol. In ancient and mediaeval times Hyssop was grown for its medicinal qualities, for ornament and for cookery. It is now chiefly cultivated only a* an ornamental plant. Description. Hyssop is a bushy herb, growing from 1 ft. to U and sometimes:' ft. high, with quadrangular stems, and narrow, entire leave* placed on them opposite tu one another in pairs. The flower* are in small clusters, crowded in terminal, one-sided spikes. I'iieie are three varieties, known respectively by their blue, red and white (lowers, whieh are in bloom from dune to Octobor, and are often employed as edging plants. QfOWU with Catmint it makes a lovely bolder, backed with Lavender and Kosemary. The leaves, Kleins and llowei - possess, a highly aromatic odour, and a hot, bitter flavour. Cultivation. Hyssop may lie propagated by seeds, sown in April, or by dividing the plant* in spring and autumn, or by cut- tings, made in spring ami inserted in a shady situation. Plants raised from seeds or cuttings, should, when large enough, be planted out about 1 ft. apart each wav. and kept watered till established. They succeed l>est in a watm aspect and in a light, rather dry soil. The plant - iopine cutting in. occasionally, but do not need much fnilhei attention, being perfectly hardy. Uses Ilvsaop is cultivated for the medicinal use of its flower-tops, which are steeped in water to make an infusion, employed as an expectorant. The healing virtues of the plant are duo to a paititular volatile oil. in il c c.isc of a cough, Hyssop made into a Tea or Syrup, with honey or treacle, is found highly beneficial. For medicinal use, the flower tops are cut in August. Distillers extract a colourless oil from the leaves, which is used in perfumery and for flavouring liqueurs. If required for this purpose the shoots should be cut when the flowers first open. From 100 to 500 ibs. of the fresh plant yield 1 lb. of oil.