H If preparation for market and not for home use, the rubbed herbs will, of course, command a higher price than the bunched herbs, and should be put up in tins or bottles.containing a quantity of uniform weight. If there be the slightest trace of moisture in the powder, it should, before bottling, be dried to ensure against mould. Powdered herbs should never he stored in paper or paste- board packages, since the delicate oils readily diffuse through the paper, and in course of time the powder becomes valueless for flavouring purposes. This loss of flavour is particularly noticeable with Sage, which even whe:i kept in tins or air-tight bottles only keeps its flavour for two years. The practice, therefore, of hanging up herbs in loose hundlos in a storeroom and leaving them till required, whether covered with paper to preserve them from dust, or not. is not to be recommended, as they soon lose their fragrance. Sometimes, however, when the bunched herbs are dry, they arc preHM'd into rake* and then wrapped in paper, and thus stored in airtight hoxe* they will retain their flarour two or three years. Mostly all herbs should be cut and dried before the middle or end of September, not to much for the sake of the herbs to be .ii-.ed. a> for the roots left in the ground. There are many kinds of herbs which tend to perish during wintor if they are not cut in time, to allow the plant* to make short growth before the growing season comes to an end. Kxcept as garnishes, herbs are probably more frequently used in a dry state than in other ways. Not only can large quantities bo kept in small space, but the method of drying is simpler than that of infusion or decoction, and dried herbs can be used for most pMi noses stuffings, soups, stews and sauces, where their fine particles are not objected to. In the case of cleai soups dried herbs can still be used, the particles being removed, before serving, by straining. To make good infusions, the freshly-gathered foliage which must be quite clean —is packed into stoppered jars, covered with the choicest vinegar, and the jars kept tightly closed for a couple of weeks, when the fluid is strained off into another jar and is ready for use, though care must be taken to ascertain its strength and the (piantitv to use. In the case of Mint, the leaves are very finely chopped before being bottled, and both liquid and leaves are employed.