77 The name of the genus, Salvia, is derived from the Latin, Salvere, to be saved, in reference to the curative properties of the plant, which was in olden times celebrated as a medicinal herb of great value. This name was corrupted popularly to Saiga and Sauge (the French form), in old English, " Sawge," which has become our present-day name of Sage. Sage is now neglected by the regular medical practitioner, though still used in domestic medicine, as a homely remedy. It was otherwise among the ancients, among whom and throughout the Middle Ages, it was in high repute. A well-known monkish line about it run : Cur moriatur homo cut Salvia crescit in horto ? (" Why should a man die whilst sage grows in his garden ? ") corresponding to an old English saying: " He that would live for aye Must eat Sage in May." A translation of an old French saying runs : " Sage helps the nerves and by its powerful might Palsy is cured and fever put to flight." and Gerarde, clearly believing this, says, " Sage is singularly good for the head and brain, it quickeneth the senses and memory, strengthened the sinews, restoreth health to those that have the palsy, and taketh away shakey trembling of the members." He says further, " No man.need to doubt of the wholesomeness of Sage Ale, being brewed as it should be with Sage, Betony, Scabious,' Spike- nard, Squinnette and Fennell Seed." Sage generally grows about a foot or more high, with wiry stems. The leaves are set in pairs on the stem and are H-2 ins. long, stalked, oblong, rounded at the ends, finely wrinkled by a stringly-marked network of veins on both sides, greyish-green in colour, softly hairy and beneath glandular. The flowers are in whorls, purplish and the corollas lipped. They blossom in August. All parts of the plant have a strong, scented odour and a warm, bitter, somewhat astringent taste, due to the volatile oil contained in the tissues. In cultivation, Sage is a very variable species, and in gardens may be found varieties with narrower leaves, crisped, red, or variegated leaves and smaller or white flowers. The form of' the calyx teeth also varies and the tube of the corolla is sometimes much longer. The two usually absent upper stamens are sometimes