31 order by their prominent black anthers, which form a cone in the centre and have been described as their beauty spot. The fruit consists of four brownish-black nutlets The seeds retain their vitality for about eight years. The flowers are sometimes pink, violet-red, and even white. Cultivation. Borage flourishes in ordinary soil, and no plant is more easily grown. It may be propagated by division of root-stocks in spring, and by putting cuttings of shoots in sandy soil in a cold frame in summer and autumn, or from seeds sown in fairly good, light soil, from the middle of March to May, in drills 18 inches apart, the seedlings being thinned out to about 15 inches apart in the rows. If left alone, Borage will seed itself freely and comes up year after year in the same place. Seeds may also be sown in the autumn. Those sown then will flower in May, whereas those sown in the spring will not flower till June. The fresh herb has a cucumber-like fragrance. When steeped in water, it imparts a coolness to it and also a faint cucumber flavour, and compounded with lemon and sugar in wine, with water, it makes a refreshing and restorative summer drink. It was formerly always an ingredient in cool tankards of wine and cider, and is still largely used in claret cup. Our great grandmothers preserved the flowers and candied them. In the early part of the nineteenth century, the young tops of Borage were still sometimes boiled as a potherb, and the young leaves were formerly considered good in salads. Gerarde tells us: "Pliny calls it Euphrosinum, because it maketh a man merry and joyful 1: which thing also the old verse concerning Borage doth testifie: Ego Borago I, Borage Gaudia semper ago. Bring alwaies courage. Those of our time do use the flowers in sal lads to exhilerate and make the mind glad. There be also many things made of these used everywhere for the comfort of the heart, for the driving away of sorrow and increasing the joy of the minde. The leaves and floures of Borage put into wine make men and women glad and merry and drive away all sadnes.se, dulnesse and melancholy, as Dioscondes and Pliny affirme. Syrup made of the floures of Borage comforteth the heart, purgeth melancholy and quieteth the phren-