50 when large enough. The fruit is heavy, and a crop of 15cwt. per acre would probably be obtained. Cutting should be done in the end of September, as the lower fruits begin to fall, the others ripen- ing on the straw. In dry periods, cutting is best done in early morning or late evening. The loose sheaves are built into small stacks of about twenty sheaves tied together, and the fruits separated by threshing in the same manner as Dill. The\ can be dried either on travs in the sun, or bv irentlti heat over a Btove, shaking occasionally. The cessation of the supply of Kennel fruits from the Con- tinent during the war led to us being grown more extensively here, any crop produced being almost certain to sell well. For medicinal uso, the fruits of the cultivated plants, especi- ally tho*e grown in Saxonv. are alone official, as they yield the most voiatile oil. Fennel fruits occur in several ^commercial varieties, varying in colour, size and appearance. Saxon fruits are greenish or yellowish-brown in colour, oblong, smaller and straighter than the Fu ndi of Sweet Fennel (I'o- nicnlum dulce). which is tho cultivated form of the Wild Fennel. Fotniru,'Wii rul:/nt?, and is distinguished by :i- ^tealei length, more oblong form and sweet taste.; its anise like odour is also stronger, but it yields only about 2 per cent, of oil. The chief commercial varieties. Saxon, Ualician and Russian, all yield 4 to f> pel cent <>f volatile oil, and these varieties are alone suitable for pharmaceutical use. It is absolutely neeessaiy to have the true medicinal scchIh if you wish to supply the drug market. For family use, k oi. of seed will produce ati ample supply of plants, and for several years, either fromHhe established roots or by re-seeding. Unless seed is needed for household or sowing purposes, the flower stems should he cut as soon as they appear Uses. It was formerly the practice to boil fennel with all fish, anil it was mainly cultivated in kitchen gardens for this purpose. Its leaves are served nowadays with salmon to correct the oily indigestibility thereof, ami air also pur into sauce, in the same way as parsley, to be eaten with boiled mackerel. The seeds are also used for "flavouring, and a carminative oil is distilled from them, with a sweetish aromatic odour and flavour, which is employed in the making of cordials and liqueurs.