82 ful of flour, 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, butter the size of a walnut, salt, pepper, and h pint of good brown gravy. Scald the Sage leaves and chop them with the onions to a mincemeat. Put them in a stew- pan with the butter, sprinkle in the flour, cover close and steam 10 minutes. Then add the vinegar, gravy and seasoning, and simmer half an hour. In Walsh's "Manual of Domestic Economy," 1857, is the following recipe for : Sage Cheese. Bruise the tops of young red Sage in a mortar with some leaves of spinach ami squeeze the juice; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less, according to the profei 11 1 colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gent I v and put it in with the skimmer till it is pressed two inches above the tat. Press it 8 or 10 hours. Salt it and turn every day. Manv kinds <«f Sage have been used as substitutes for tea, the Chinese having been said to prefer Sage 'Pen to their own native product, and at one time haltering for it with the Dutch, giving thrice the ouantiiv of their choicest tea in exchange. It is recorded that Oeorge Whitfield, when at Oxford in 1733, lived wholesomely, if sparingly, on a diet of Sage Tea alone, sugar and coarse bread. Balsamic Sage, Salvia gravilih'um, a broad-leaved Sage with many- flowered whorls of blossom*, used to be preferred to all others for making tea. An infusion of Speedwell ( Vrronicu ojficimlit)y Sago and Wood Betony together is said to make an excellent bovorage for breakfast, a> a substitute for tea, Speedwell having somewhat I lie flavour of Chinese green tea. In Holland, the leavos of Salvia qlutuu i, the Yellow-flowered Hardy Sage, both Mowers and foliage; of which exhale a pleasant odour, are used to givo flavour to country wines. It was formerly thought that Sage used in the making of Cheese improved its flavour, and in a passage of a poem of Cay ; " Marbled with Sage, the hardening cheese she pressed," we find a reference to this custom, which no doubt was a wholesome one, tho volatile oil in the sage leaves acting as a corrective to tho richness of the. cheese, in the same way that it is of use when Sage forms an ingredient of stuffings and sauces taken with rich moat. Italian peasants eat Sage as a preservative of health and many of our own country people often cat the leaves with bread and butter, than which, it has been said, there is no better and more wholesome way of taking.it.