33 Uses. In the herb gardens of older days, the Salad Burnet always had its place. Bacon recommends it to be set in alleys together with wild thyme and water mint, to perfume the air most delightfully, being trodden on and crushed." The leaves when bruised smell like cucumber and taste some- what like it, and from this property it was reckoned among the salad herbs and used to be put into cool tankards in the same manner as Borage, though it has gone out of fashion and as a kitchen-herb is now much neglected. The older herbalists held this plant in greater repute than it enjoys at the present day as a drug. Pliny recommended it for divers complaints. Culpepper tells us that the continued use of it " preserves the body in health and the spirit in vigour "—that it is a friend to the heart and liver,''" and that two or three of the stalks, with their leaves, put into a cup of wine " will quicken the spirit, refresh and clear the heart, and drive away melancholy." " It gives a grace in the drynkynge," says Gerarde, referring to this use of it in cool tankards. Turner advised the use of the herb, infused in wine or beer, for the cure of gout and rheumatism. CARAWAY. Carum Carvi (Linn.). Caraway is another member of the group of aromatic, umbel- liferous plants characterised by having carminative properties, like Anise, Cumin, Dill and Fennel. It is grown, however, less for the medicinal properties of the fruits, or so-called " seeds," than for their use as a flavouring material in cookery, confectionery and liqueurs. The plant is distributed throughout the northern and central parts of Europe and Asia, though where it occurs in this country, it is oniy considered a naturalised species, having apparently escaped cultivation. Caraway was well known in far-off classic days, and it is beiieved that its use originated with the ancient Arabs, who calkd the " seeds " Karatvaya, a name they still bear in the Eajst, and clearly the origin of our word Caraway. Description. It is a biennial, with smooth, furrowed stems, growing l£ to 2 ft. high, bearing finely cut leaves, and umbels