81 In Sussex, at one time, country folk would munch Sage leaves on nine consecutive mornings whilst fasting to cure ague, and the dried leaves have been used for smoking in pipes as a remedy for asthma. In the region where Sage grows wild, its leaves are boiled in vinegar and used as a tonic. Sage and Onion stuffing for ducks and geese and for pork is well known, being eaten with them as the bitter and condimentary | pungency of the herb enables the stomach better to digest the rich, luscious, oily meat. A few less familiar receipes may, however, be of interest, taken mostly from cookery books of a former generation. Here is an old receipe in Warner's "Ancient Cookery," 1791, for " Sawgeat," Sawge, as stated above, being an old form of the name Sage. Sawgeat. Take Pork and seeth (boil) it wel and grinde it smale and medle (mingle) it with ayren (eggs) and ygrated (grated) brede (bread). Do thereto salt sprinkled and saffron. Take a close litull ball of it in foiles (leaves) of Sawge. Wet it with a bator (batter) of ayren, fry and serve forth. In "The Cook's Oracle," 1821, there is a good receipe for: Sage and Onion Sauce. Chop very fine an ounce of onion and half an ounce of green Sage leaves, put them in a stamper with 4 spoonsful of water, simmer gently for 10 minutes, then put in a teaspoonful of pepper and salt and one ounce of fine breadcrumbs. Mix well together, then pour to it £ pint of Broth, Gravy or Melted Butter, stir well together and simmer a few minutes longer. This is a relishing sauce for Roast Pork, Geese or Duck, or with Green Peas on Maigre Days. The same book gives: A Relish for Roast Pork or Goose. 2oz. of leaves of Green Sage, an oz. of fresh lemon peel, pared thin, same of salt, minched shallot and half a drachm of Cayenne pepper, ditto of Citric acid, steeped for a fortnight in a pint of Claret. Shake it well every day ; let it stand a day to settle and decant the clear liquid. Bottle it and cork it close. Use a tablespoonful or more in a quarter of a pint of gravy or melted butter. Another modern Sage sauce, excellent with roast pork: Sagina Sauce. Take 6 large Sage leaves, 2 onions, 1 teaspoon-