49 by Charlemagne upon the imperial farms, and it is frequently mentioned in Anglo-Saxon cookery prior to the Norman conquest. At the present day, it is most popular in Italy and France. The whole plant has a warm, carminative taste and was highly esteemed by the ancient Greeks, who had a theory that serpents had recourse to it to cure blindness. It was also supposed to confer longevity, strength and courage, and Longfellow has written a poem about it to this effect. William Coles, in " Nature's Paradise," 1650, said that "both the seeds, leaves and roota of our Garden Fennel are much used in drinks and broths for those that are grown fat, to abate their unwieldiness and cause them to grow more gaunt and lank." Description. Its stout stems, 4 to 5 ft. high, erect and cylindrical, bright green and so smooth as to seem polished, are much branched. The bright golden flowers are produced in July and August. Fennel is naturally a very ornamental graceful plant, but in the kitchen garden, the stems are generally cut down to secure a constant crop of green leaves for flavouring and garnishing, so that the plant is seldom seen in the same perfection as in the wild state. In the original wild condition, it is variable as to size, habit, shape and colour of the leaf, number of rays in the flower-head or umbel, and shape of fruit, but it has been under cultivation for so long that there are now several well-marked species. The Common Garden Fennel (F. capillaceum or officinale) is distinguished from its wild relative (F. vulgare) by having much stouter, taller, tubular and larger stems, and less divided leaves, but the chief distinction is that the leaf stalks form a curved sheath around the stem, often even as far up the base of the leaf above. The flower stalks or pedicals of the'umbels are also sturdier, and the seeds, £to|in. long, are double the size of the wild ones. Cultivation. Fennel will thrive anywhere, and a planta- tion will last for years. It is easily propagated by seeds, sown early in April in ordinary soil. It likes plenty of sun and is adapted to dry and sunny situations, not needing heavily manured ground, though it will probably yield more on rich soil, on the stiff side. From 4£ to 5 lb. of seed are sown per acre, either in drills, 15 inches apart, lightly, just covered with soil, and the plants afterwards thinned to a similar distance, or thinly in a bed and transplanted