44 seeds fall as soon as ripe. The plant is bright green, shining, glabrous and intensely foetid. The seeds are quite round, like tiny balls, deeply furrowed, and about the size of a Sweet Pea Seed. They retain their vitality for five or six years. On drying they lose their disagreeable scent and become fragrant—the longer they are kept the more fragrant they become, with a warm, pungent taste. (lerarde describes it as follows: " The common kind of Coriander is a very striking herb it has a round stalk full of branches, two feet long. The leaves are almost like the leaves of the paisley, but later on become more jagged, almost like the leaves of Fumitoirc, but a great deal smaller and tenderer. The flowers are white and grow in round Uwsels like I>ill." Cultivation. Coriander liken a warm, dry soil, though it does well in the somewhat heavy soil of Ksscx. On favourable, laud, the yield mav reach or even exceed 1,500 lbs. to the acre. Sow in mild, dry weather in April, in shallow drills about £ in. deep and 10 or 12 ins, apart) and cover in evonly with the soil The seeds are slow in geiminating They may also be sown in March, in In tl. fur planting out in May Except f01 keeping down the weeds, no further au< ntion is ueceasai v Tin- pi.mis mature in about two mouths. Aa the seed* ripen, about August, the disagreeablo odour gives place to a pleasant aroma, and the plants are then cut down with sickles, dried m the shade, and the fruit threshed out (see p. ). Tin eedi ran ipiickiy l>< dned on trays in the IttD, or l>y slight artificial heat. Uses. In the northern countries of Europe, the seeds are onictnmv iinxc.i with bread, but the chief consumption of Coriander seed in this country is in flavouring certain alcoholic liquors, for which purpose it is largely grown in Essex. Distillers of gin make use of it. It is also much used in making little round pink or white comfits for children, and other confectionery ; and, especially in the East, as an ingredient in entry powder and other condiments. The fruit is the only part of the plant that seems to have any medical or dietetical reputation. Although one of the British grown plants included in the British Pharmacopoeia, it is now seldom em-