61 This common Garden Mint, also known as Mackerel Mint and Lamb Mint, is not a native of these Islands, though growing so freely in every garden, but is originally a native of the Mediter- ranean region, and was introduced into Britain by the Romans, being largely cultivated by them and by other Mediterranean nations. It was in great request by the Romans, and Pliny mentions that they made a practice of using it in their cookery. Gerarde renders what he says of it as : "The smell of mint does stir up the minde and the taste to a greedy desire of meate." Ovid represents the hospitable Baucis and Philemon as scouring their board with green mint before laying upon it the food intended for their divine guests. The ancients had a notion that mint would prevent the coagulation of milk and its acid fermentation. Gerarde, quoting Pliny, says : "It will not suffer milk to cruddle in the stomach, and therefore it is put in milk that is drunke." Pliny also recommends a Crown of Mint to be worn when studying, as it " exhilarates the mind and is therefore proper for students." Many other references are made to it in old writings, among them that of the payment by the Pharisees of tithes of Mint, Anise and Cumin, prove that the herb has been highly esteemed for many centuries, Its generic name, Mentha, is derived from the mythological origin ascribed to it. Minthe (we learn from Ovid) was a nymph, who because of the love Pluto bore her, was from motives of jealousy metamorphosed by Proserpine into the plant we now call Mint. Description. From creeping rootstocks, erect, square stems rise to a height of about 2 ft., having very short stalked acute- pointed, lance-shaped, wrinkled, bright green leaves with finely toothed edges, and smooth surfaces. The small flowers are densely arranged in cylindrical, slender, tapering spikes, are pinkish or lilac in colour, have two-lipped corollas, and are followed by very few roundish, minute, brown seeds. Cultivation. A moist situation is preferable, but mint will succeed in almost any soil, when once started into growth, and does best in a partially shaded position. If in a sheltered spot, it will start earlier in the spring than if exposed. Where a long'or regular supply is required, it is a good plan to have at least one"bed in a sunny and sheltered, and another in a shady position, when gatherings may be made both early and late.