shallow boxes, 2 ins. apart, and hardened oft'in the usual way. When As a kitchen herb Hyssop has greatly gone out of use because it is too strongly flavoured. It was formerly employed in broths, and its tender leaves and shoots are still occasionally added to salads, more in the nature of a condiment, to supply a bitter taste. LOYAGE.—LeYistioum Officinale (Kooh). This umbelliferous plant is a perennial, a native of the Mediterranean. The large, dark green, shining, radical leaves are usually divided into two or three segments. The thick, hollow, erect stems divide towards the top to form opposite, whorled branches, which bear umbels of yellow flowers, followed by extremely aromatic, hollowed fruits, with three prominent ribs. Cultivation. Propagation is by division of roots or by seeds. Rich moist soil is required In late summer, when the seed ripens, it is sown, and the seedlings transplanted either in the autumn or as early in spring as possible to their permanent places. Root division is performed in early spring. The plants should last for several years if the ground is kept well cultivated. Uses. Formerly Lovage was used for a great variety of purposes, but now it is restricted almost wholly to confectionery, the young stems being treated like those of Angelica. The leaf-stalks and stem bases were formerly blanched like celery. MARIGOLD.—Calendula Officinalis (Linn.). The Common Marigold is familiar to everyone, with its pale- green leaves and golden and orange flowers. It is an annual herb of the natural order Compositse, a native of southern Europe, but perfectly hardy in this country. Its Latin name, suggestive of its flowering habit, signifies "blooming through the months." It is a general favourite, especially in country gardens, easily grown and so free a bloomer that it continues in blossom from early summer until the first hard frosts arrive and kill the plants. Cultivation. For the garden, the seed is usually started in a hotbed during March or April, and the plants pricked out in