39 The Sweet Cicely, or Giant Sweet Chervil (Myrrhis Odorata) must not be confounded with the Common Chervil. It is a native of Great Britain, found in mountainous pastures in the North, and is a perennial, with a thick root (which used to be boiled and eaten with oil and vinegar) and very aromatic foliage, and was used in olden days as a salad herb. Gerarde writes of it: " It hath leaves of a very good and pleasant smell and taste like unto Chervil and something hairy, which has caused us to call it Sweet Chervil." CHIYES.—Allium Schoenoprasum (Linn.). In England, Chives are comparatively little known, being by no means considered indispensable denizens of the kitchen garden, though in Scotland they are found in many a cottage garden and in France, where the science of cookery is more regarded than with us, they are very commonly used. The Chive is the smallest, though one of the finest-flavoured of the Onion tribe, belonging to the botanical group of plants that goes under the name of Allium, which includes also the Garlic, Leek and Shallot, and is part of the great order Liliaceae Though said to be a native of Britain, it is only very rarely found here growing in an uncultivated state, and then only in the northern and western counties of England and Wales ; where occa- sionally found wild in fields and meadows, it is generally only an outcast from the kitchen garden. But it grows in rocky pastures throughout temperate and northern Europe. Description. The plant is a hardy perennial, that is to say produces each year fresh leaves from the same root, which is a tiny succulent bulb that lives through the winter under the surface of the ground after the leaves have died down in the autumn. The bulbs grow very close together in dense tufts or clusters, and are of an elongated form, with white, rather firm sheaths, the outer sheath sometimes grey. The slender leaves appear early in spring and are long, cylindrical and hollow, tapering to a point and about the thickness of a crowsquill. They grow from 6 to 10 ins. high. The flowering stem is usually nipped off with cultivated plants (which are grown solely for the sake of the leaves, or " grass"), but