84 grown, but the leaves of both are employed in cookery, like other sweet herbs, the leaves and tender tops being used, with Marjoram and Thyme, to season dressings for turkey, veal or fish. Both species were noticed by Virgil as being among the most fragrant of herbs, and on this account recommended to be grown near beehives. There is reason to suppose that they were cultivated in remote ages, before the East Indian spices were known and in common use. Vinegar, flavoured with Savory and other aromatic lierli-. w;i~ used by the Komans in the same manner as Mint sauce is by us. in Shakespeare's time, Savory was a familiar herb, for we find it mentioned, together with the Mints, Marjoram and Lavender, in "The Winter's Tale." Description. Summer Savory is a hardy, downy annual, with slender erect stem* about a foot high. It flowers in July, having pale lilac labiate flowers, in small axiallary clusters, on short stalk1- <>! p"-direls, sometimes in groups of three The loaves about | in long. Ml fiitue, oblong linear, acute, narrowed at the base into a short leaf stalk, often fasicled. 1 e , in little bunches or groups. The bairn on the stem are short and decurved. The whole plant is very flagrant. Cultivation. Summer Savory is raised from seeds, sown early in April, in shallow drills. 9 in. or a foot apart. Select a sunny situation and thin out the seedlings, when large enough, to 6 ins. apart in the rows. It likes a rich, light soil. The seeds may also be sown broadcast, when they must be thinned out, the thinned out seedlings being planted in another bod at fiin distance from each other and well watered The seeds are very slow in germinating. The early spring seedlings may be first toppod for fresh use in .June. When the flower buds appear, the stems may be cut off and hung up to dry for future use, in the usual way (see p. 13). The cut-down plants will continue to produce fresh shoots, and these may be gathered later on. Use8. As a kitchen herb, Savory, which has a distinctive taste, though it somewhat recalls that of Marjoram, is not only added to stuffings, pork pies and sausages, but also to stews and sauces used with such meats as veal, pork, duck and goose. Sprigs of it, fresh,