79 separate plant. Young' plants or young- rooted growths are found at the base of old, apparently dead shoots of Sage : these growths can be severed from the parent and a new plantation formed. Red Sage is always propagated by layering- or by cutting's, as the seed does not produce a red-leaved plant, but reverts back to the original green-leaved type, though efforts are being made to insure the production of a Red Sage that shall set seed that shall remain true and develop into the red-leaved plant. When grown on a commercial scale, and sown in drills at the rate of two seeds to the inch, and in rows 15 ins. apart, about 8 lbs. of seed will be needed to the acre. At the present day by far the largest demand for Sage is for culinary use, and it should pay to grow it in quantity for this purpose as it is little trouble. For this, the White Variety, with somewhat pale green leaves should be taken. The strength and fineness of the flavour depend mostly upon the harvesting and drying. For drying, the leaves are cut when the flowers appear. Sage is dried in bunches like the other woody- stemmed sweet herbs, care being taken to pick only on a dry day, and to strip off all stained and insect-eaten leaves. When used for medicinal purposes, the Red Sage is mostly employed. The leaves must be handpicked, gathering only on a fine day in the morning after the sun has dried off the dew and rejecting all leaves not in perfect condition. They should then be very carefully dried, which on a warm, sunny day may be done in the open, though not exposed to direct sun, lest too great heat should cause the leaves to lose some of their volatile oil on which their medicinal properties depends. The leaves may be placed on wire sieves or trays, placed a few feet from the ground, to ensure a free current of warm air, but as in the case of the bunched herbs, they must be taken in before there is any risk of damp from showers or evening dew. p When properly dried the properties of the plant are in a great measure retained, but Sage should not be kept long in a dried state, not longer than one year, as it rapidly deteriorates. It is estimated that 9 lbs. of fresh leaves produce 2 lbs. of the dried herb. Uses. Sage has been medicinally employed in many ways,