87 contained in the plant, which consists chiefly of Absinthol, and is common in other Wormwoods. The scene is said to be disagreeable to bees, and also to other insects, for which reason the French call the plant Garderobe, as moths will not attack clothes among which it is laid. In Italy, Southernwood is employed as a culinary herb, the young shoots being used for flavouring cakes and other culinary preparations. TANSY.—Tanacetum Yulgare (Linn.). Tansy, a composite plant very familiar in our hedgerows and waste places, is a hardy perennial, widely spread over Europe. The stem is erect and leafy, about 2-3 feet high, grooved and angular. The leaves are alternate, much cut into, 2-6 inches long and about four inches wide. The plant is conspicuous in August and September by its heads of round, flat, dull yellow flowers, growing in clusters, which earn it the name of " Buttons." It has a very curious, and not altogether disagreeable odour, somewhat like camphor. It is often naturalised in our gardens for ornamental cultiva- tion. The feathery leaves of the Wild Tansy are beautiful, especially when growing in abundance on marshy ground, and it has a more refreshing scent than the Garden Tansy. The name Tansy is probably derived from the Greek Athanasiu, which signifies immortality, either, says Dodoens, because it lasts so long in flower, or as Ambrosius thought, because it is so capital for preserving dead bodies from corruption. It was said to have been given to Ganymede to make him immortal. Cultivation. Tansy will thrive in almost any soil and may be increased, either in spring or autumn, by slips or by dividing the creeping roots, which if permitted to remain undisturbed, will, in a short time, overspread the ground. When transplanting the slips or portions of root, place therefore at least a foot apart. Uses. Although the leaves have an acrid, bitter taste, they have been used, shredded, for flavouring puddings, cakes, omelettes, salads, stews and other culinary dishes. " This balsamic plant," said Boerhave, the great Danish physician of the 18th century,