25 the fondness of bees for the abundant nectar stored in its flowers. Gerarde says: " It is profitably planted where bees are kept. The hives of bees being- rubbed with the leaves of bawme, causoth the bees to keep together, and causeth others to come with them." And again, quoting Pliny, " When they are strayed away, they do find their way home by it." It is a native of Southern Europe, where over, 2,000 years ago it was cuiivated as a source of honey and as sweet herb, and it is frequently mentioned in the Greek and Latin classics. It has been introduced as a garden plant into nearly all temperate climates Description. The root-stock is short, the roots small and fibrous; the stem, square and branching, grows 1-2 feet high, and has at each joint pairs of broadly heart-shaped, toothed leaves, which emit a fragrant lemon odour when bruised. They also have a distinct lemon taste. The flowers, white or yellowish, are in loose, small, one-sided clusters from the axils of the leaves, and bloom from June to October. The plant dies down in winter, but the root is perennial. The seeds are very small, more than 50,000 to the ounce. Cultivation. Balm grows freely in any soil and can be propagated by seeds sown in May, and by cuttings or division of roots in spring or autumn; if in autumn, preferably not later than October, so that the offsets may be established before the frosts come on. The roots may be divided into small pieces, with three or four buds to each, and planted two feet apart in ordinary garden soil. The only culture required is to keep them clean from weeds and to cut off the decayed stalks in autumn, and then to stir the ground between the roots. The seeds germinate fairly well, even when four years old. Owing to their small size, they should be planted in a seed-pan in a greenhouse in very fine and friable soil, on the surface of which they are merely pressed. When an inch tall, they should be pricked out 2 inches apart in shallow boxes, and when 4 inches tall set out in the open, in rows 18 inches apart and 1 foot apart in the rows. When once established, they may be increased readily by cuttings, layers, or division of roots. The foliage of seedling plants, or plants spring set, should be ready for use by mid-summer ; that of established plants from early spring until late autumn.