78 present in very small sterile hooks. The Red Sago and the Broad- leaved variety of the White (or Green) Sage—both of which are used and have been proved to bo the best for medical purposes— and the narrow-leaved White Sago, which is host for culinary purposes as a seasoning, are classed merely as varieties of Salvia officinalis, not as separate species. There is a variety called the Spanish, or Lavender-leaved Sage, and another called the Worm- wood Sage, which is very frequent Cultivation. The (iarden Sage succeeds best in a warm and rather dry lx>rder. but will grow well almost anywhere in ordinary garden soil ; it thrives in a situation somewhat; shaded from sunshine, but not strictlv under trees. It is a hardy plant. but though a perennial, does not last above three or four years without degenerating, so that the plantation should be renewed at least every four years. It is pro[.agated occasionally by seed, but more frequently by cuttings. New plantations are readily made by pulling off the young shoots from three-year old plants in spring, generally in the latter end of April, as soon as evei they attain a sufficiency <>f hardness to enable them to maintain themselves on the moisture of the ground and atmos- phere while the lower extremities are prepiring roots. If advantage betaken of any showery weather tl.at may accur, there is little trouble in obtaining any required number of plants, which may either Ik* struck in the l*?d where they are to grow, inserting a foot ajwrteach way, or in some other shady s|>ot whence they may be removed to permanent quarters when rooted. The latter plan is the l»est when the weather is too bright and sunny to expect Sage to >tnke well m it* ordinan quarters. See the young plants do not suffer from want of water during their first summer and hoe the rows regularly to induce a bushy growth, nipping off the growing tips if shooting up too tall. Treat the ground with soot and mulch in wi&feer with old manure. Cuttings may also be taken iu the autumn, as soon as the plants have ceased flowering. Sage is also very often propagated by layers, in the spring and autumn, the branches of old plants being pegged down on the ground and covered with half an inch of earth. The plant being like other of the woody-stemmed garden herbs, a "stem rooter," each of the stems thus covered will produce quantities of rootlets from just Iving in contact with the ground and can after a time be cut away from the old plant and transplanted to other quarters as a