41 set seed, as you cannot, get the two crops—" grass " and seed, off the one set of plants. For market, the clumps are cut in squares and the whole plant sold. Treated thus, the greengrocers can keep them in good coudition by watering until sold. Uses. The Chive contains a pungent volatile oil, rich in sulphur, which is present in all the Onion tribe and causes their dis- tinctive smell and taste, but is more delicate in this species. It is most economical and delightful to use early in the year, especially before the spring onions come in, and also when onions are dear, makes an excellent and more delicate substitute for flavour- ing, for which purpose it deserves to be more widely grown. It is a great improvement to salads—cut fresh and chopped fine—and may be put not oulyin green salads, but also into cucum- ber salad, or sprinkled on sliced tomatoes. Chives are also excellent in savoury omelettes, and may be chopped and boiled with potatoes that are to be mashed, or chopped fresh and sprinkled, just before serving, on the top of a dish of mashed potatoes, both as a garnish and flavouring. They may also be put into soup, either dried, or freshly cut and finely chopped, and are a welcome improvement to home-made sausages, croquettes, etc., as well as being an excellent addition to beefsteak puddings and pies. A delicate gout is given to the dripping in which meat is fried, which is imparted to the meat itself, by adding some chopped Chives. Finally, Chives are also useful for cutting up and mixing with the food of newly-hatched turkeys. CLARY.—Salvia Solaria (Linn.). The Common Clary, a member of the order Labiatae, is like its near relative the Garden Sage, not a native of Great Britain, having first been introduced into English cultivation in the year 1562. It is a native of Syria, Italy, southern Fiance and Switzerland, but will thrive here upon almost any soil that is not too wet, though it will rot frequently upon moist ground in the winter. The English name Clary originates in the Latin specific name ■■■clarea, a word derived from darm\ clear. This name Clary was often