60 Marjoram or Wild Thyme, laid by milk in a dairy will prevent it being turned by thunder. Marjoram has a very ancient medical reputation. The Greeks used it extensively, both internally and for makiug fomentations. It was esteemed as a remedy for narcotic, poisons, convulsions and dropsy by them, and also by the older herbalists of Europe. It was once greatly popular for herb tea, drunk in cases of headache and asthma, and large quantities of it are still gathered and hum^ up to dry in cottages in Kent and other counties for making Marjoram tea. The plant yields by distillation with water a small quantity of a volatile oil, which may be seen in vesicles, on holding up the M'iii■ - i..-: wiH-ti tin- eves ami ibt light) Mid which ie the chief source (it properties .is a medicinal agent. It is a thin light yellow or gruuuish liquid, with the concentrated odour of Marjoram and Peppermint, aiH ha* a waiin ami siiglnlv luttoi tuste. One pound of the. oil is produced from al>out 100 Ihs. of the herb, which should Iks gathered foi this purpose when just coming into flower oarly in July. In France. Marjoram is cultivated commercially for the oil. Some distillation is also done in England from the Wild Marjoram. Origanum Oils are largely imported from Trieste, Smyrna and Cyprus. The medicinal qualities of the oil extracted from Sweet Marjoram, Oleum Marjoram*, are similar to that of tho Wild Marjoram, l.r» o/.». of the oil being yielded by 150 lbs. of the fresh herb. Oil of Marjoram is used also for perfuming toilet articles, especially soap SPEARMINT. Mentha Yiridis (Linn.). There are three chief species of Mint in general use : Spear- mint, Mentha Viridis ; Peppermint, Mentha Piperita; ami Pennyroyal, Mentha Pulegium. the first being the one ordinarily used for cooking, and the others being valuable medicinal herbs, whose virtues we need not consider here. Spearmint has also its place in the British l'hariuacopceia as a medicinal plant, but it is with its familiar culinary uses that wc arc now concerned.