80 even though in this country it has fallen into disuse in regular official practice. It has stimulant, astringent, tonic and carminative properties and has been used in dyspepsia, but is now mostly employed as a condiment. In the United States, however, where it is still an official medicine, it is in some repute, especially in the form of an infusion, the principal and most valued application of which is as a wash for the cure of affections of the mouth and as a gargle in inflamed sore throat, being excellent for relaxed throat and tonsils, and also for ulcerated throat cases. The gargle is also useful for bleeding gums and to prevent an excessive llow of saliva. When a more stimulating effect is desirable to the throat than that made by the ordinary infusion of the herb with boiling water, the gargle may l>e made of equal quantities of vinegar and water in a closed Vessel. pint of hot mall vinegar being poured OB 1 oz. of leaves, adding h pint of cold water, and used frequently. The infusion when made for internal use is termed Sage Tea, and can bo made simply by pouring 1 pint of boiling water on to 1 ofc. of the dried h»»rb, the (lose being fiom a wineglassful to half a teacupful, as often as required, but the old-fashioned way of making it is more elalnuaU', and the result is quite a pleasant drink, very cooling in fevers, and also a cleanser and purifier of the blood. Half an ounce of fresh Sage leaves, 1 OS. of sugar, the juice of one. lemon, or J »■/.. of g rated rind, and infused in a quart of boiling water and stained off after half an hour. (In Jamaica, the negroes use as a cooling drink in fevers Sage Tea made from the loaves of this Sage, sweetened, atid flavoured with Lime juice, instead of lemon.) Sage Tea or infusion of Sage, is a valuable agent in the delirium of fevers and in the nervous excitement frequently accom- panying brain and nervous diseases. The fresh leaves, rubbed on the teeth, will cleanse them and strengthen the gums. Sage is a common ingredient in tooth powders. Oil of Sage, the volatile oil distilled from the leaves, is a useful ingredient, in embrocation for rheumatism. It is also much employed in perfumery. About 800 lbs. of the stem and leaves yield 1 lb. of oil.