24 The ground seeds also form one of the ingredients of sachet powders. Anise fruit yields on distillation a fragrant, syrupy, volatile oil, that is nearly colourless, about 50 lbs. of seed being required to produce 1 lb. of oil. It is largely employed in France. Spain, Italy and South America in the preparation of cordial liqueurs. The liqueur Anisette, made by mixing the oii with spirits 01 wiue, added to cold water on a hot summer's day. is a most refreshing drink. It has a bencli' ieiit action on the bronchial tubes, and is an immediate Initiative for bronchitiis and spasmodic asthma, if administered in hot water. Anise enjoys a considerable reputation as a medicine in coughs and | t ct< >r iI affections. It is greatly used in the form of lozenges, and the seeds have also l>een used for smokiug to promote expect oration Aniae oil is a good antiseptic, and is used mixed with oil of Pep|*«rtnint or Wmterereen to flavour aromatic liquid dentifrices. It is also mixed with other fluids for liquid perfumes, and largely used in |>erfuming soajw, pomatus and other toilet articles. The oil is said to prove a capital l»it for mice, if smeared in trap-*. It is poisonous to pigeons. It destroys lice and the itch insect, it beiug mixed with lard for the purpose and made into an o4ntui6t)U At Krlurt in Germany, where much of the commercial oil is made, the whole plant and the seeds are both used for distilling. The powdeied seed is largely used in condition pills and other condiments for horses. The 'eaVOS, applied externally, are said to help to remove freok.es. They liave l»een frequently employed as a garnish for tUvuutiuif salads, and to a limited extent as a pot herb. BALM. Melissa Officinalis (Linn.). Halm, also known as Sweet Halm and Lemon Halm, is a well- known perennial plant l>elonging to the order Labiatae. The world Halm is an abbreviation of Halsam, the chief of sweet-smelling oils. It is so called from its honied sweetness. The generic name^ Melissa is Greek foi bee, given it in allusion to