69 flavouring to sauces, soups, stuffings, rissoles, minces, etc., and also sprinkled over potatoes, whether mashed or whole, over vegetable marrow, or over salads, either potato salad or tomato salad. Sprigs of fresh parsley form the most favourite garnish to cold dishes, and it is also often fried whole as a garnish. The leaves are extensively cultivated, not only for sending to market fresh, but also for the purpose of being dried and powdered as a culinary flavouring in winter, when only a limited supply of the fresh parsley is obtainable. There is always a market for dried parsley—as much as 2/- per lb. being given by wholesale buyers for first-class dried parsley when demand is keen, though the usual price is lOd. to 1/- per lb. In addition to the leaves, the stems are also dried and powdered, both as a culinary colouring and for dyeing purposes. There is a market for the seeds to supply nurserymen, etc., and the roots of the turnip-rooted variety, as above mentioned, are used as a vegetable and flavouring. Medicinally, the two-year old roots are employed, also the leaves, dried, for making Parsley Tea, and the seeds, for the extraction of an oil called Apiol, which is of considerable curative value. The best kind of seed for medicinal purposes is that obtained from the Triple Moss curled variety. The wholesale drug trade generally obtains its seed from farmers on the East coast, each sample being tested separately before purchases are made. It has been the practice to buy second year seeds which are practically useless for growing purposes : it would probably hardly pay farmers to grow for Apiol producing purposes only, as the demand is not sufficiently great. Parsley is chiefly used for its diuretic properties, a strong decoction of the root being of great service in gravel, stone, con- gestion of the kidneys, dropsy and jaundice. Parsley Tea, infused from the dried leaves, is used for the same purpose. The bruised leaves, applied externally, have been used in the same manner as Violet leaves (also Celandine, Clover and Comfrey). to dispel tumours suspected to be of a cancerous nature. A poultice of the leaves is said to be an efficacious remedy for the bites and stings of poisonous insects. Formerly the distilled water of parsley was often given to children troubled with wind, as Dill water still is. Though the medicinal virtues of paisley are still fully recog-