23 Description. It is a dainty little plant, its slender stems about 18 inches high, erect, branched and cylindrical, arising from a white, spindle-shaped and rather fibrous root. Its root-leaves are lobed, somewhat like those of celery, but its stem-leaves are more and more finely cut towards the upper part of the stem, near the top of which their segments become very finely divided, like those of Fennel. Its flowers are small, of a yellowish white, in loose umbels formed of many umbellules. The fruits (popularly called " seeds ") are greenish-grey, oblong in shape and furrowed and ridged, of an aromatic and agreeable odour and sweet and spicy taste. Cultivation. Sow the seed, which should be as fresh as possible, never more than two years old, in dry, light Foil, on a warm, sunny border, ea,r\y in April, where the plants are to remain. When they are about 2 inches high, thin them, allowing about a foot each way. The seeds may also be sown in pots in heat, and removed to a warm site in May, but the plants do not transplant readily. When planting on a commercial scale, sow in drills, 15 to 18 inches apart, and thin out to 6 inches apart in the rows. An ounce of seed should plant about 150 feet of drills, if the seeds are sown about \ inch apart. A light application of well-rotted manure, careful preparation of the ground, and keeping clean from weeds are all that is required. The seeds will ripen in England in good seasons if planted in a warm and favourable situation, though not successful everywhere, and can hardly be looked upon as a remunerative crop. The plant flowers in July, and if the season prove warm, will ripen in autumn, in about 4 months from the sowing of the seed, and in about 1 month from the appearance of the flowers, when the plants are cut down and the seeds threshed out. Uses. In Virigil's time, Anise was used as a spice. MustacEe, or spiced cakes of the Romans, introduced at the end of a rich meal, to prevent indigestion, consisted of meal, with Anise, Cummin and other aromatics. Such a cake was sometimes brought in at the end of a marriage feast, and is, perhaps, the origin of our spiced Wedding cake. On the Continent, especially in Germany, many cakes have an aniseed flavouring, and Anise is also used in a flavouring for soups, and is an ingredient of various condiments, especially curry powders, and is also used to flavour some kinds of cheese and bread.