98 prefers light, sandy or gravel ground exposed to the sun. Propa- gate by seeds, cutting6, or division of roots, Care must be taken to weed. Manure with farmyard manure in autumn or winter and nitrates in spring. The whole herb is used. Cut when in full Mower, in July and August, and dry in the same manner as Common Thyme. It is much picked lor sale in France, chiefly in the helds of the Aisne, for the extraction of its essential oil, a yellow liquid, with a weaker scent than that of Oil of Thyme extracted from Thymus vulgaris and is called Oil of Serpotet. The flowering tops are used to flavour jugged hare, etc. : they have a milder and more grateful flavour than (ha Common Thyme Although it lias been stated that animals will seldom eat this plant and that rabbtts do not touch it, yet according to others, it has been alleged that sheep love to crop its fragrant leaves and that II a consequence, a fine flavour is then im- parted to their flesh. It is .said th.it Wild Thyme and Marjoram laid by milk in the dairy will prevent it being turned by thunder. In medicine. Wild Thyme or Serpolet ha- the same properties .1- ( moil Thyme, but to an inferior degree. In perfumery, Oil of Serpolet is chietlv used for soap. The flowering tops, macerated for 24 hour* or so in salt and water are made into a perfumed \vat.or. WALNUT. JuKlans Nigre (Linn.). Though the Walnut Tree will hardly be looked on as a culinary herb, vet its fruits may be included among those used for cookery. l">:h n pickles and tor the catsup prepared from them, which is used to flavour certain dishes. Both pickles, walnuts, and Walnut Catsup are also of value for their medicinal properties. The fruit, when young and unripe, makes a wholesome, anti- scorbutic pickle, slightly laxative, the "vinegar in which the green fruit has been pickled proving a capital gargle for sore and slightly ulcerated throats. Walnut catsup embodies the medicinal virtues of the unripe nuts. A green walnut, boiled in syrup and preserved in it, is an excellent homely preventative of constipation. The juice of the green husks, boiled with honey, is also a I gargle for a handinflwned throat. Th. J&WCfa^ "" di.-tinet medicinal valueJ^pPespec^llbamphlet on the Walnut.