13 strong light out-of-doors, it is advisable to cover the bunches with thin paper, to prevent the colour being injured by the light. The herbs muet be brought indoors to a dry room or shed at night, before there is any ctiance of becoming damp from dew. When the leaves are quite dry and crisp, artificial heat near a stove may be used to dry the stems after the leaves are quite shrivelled, to finish the operation. Short-stemmed species and leaves may be dried on wire trays or wooden racks, placed a few feet above the ground to ensure their being exposed to a current of air, being placed in a single layer so that the warm air circulates to all parts to be dried. Drying may also be carried out indoors, in a hot, sunny attic, the window being left open at the top by day, so that there is a current of air and the room does not become steamy. The door may also be left open. The herbs can either bo hung, bunched, over strings, or if the stems are succulent, they can be placed on canvas or wire-mesh trays, or placed on butter cloth, stented, i.e., if hooks are placed beneath the window and on the opposite wall, the butter- cloth can be attached by rings sewn on each side of it and hooked on, so that it is stretched quite taut. Failing sun, any ordinary shed, fitted with racks and shelves can be used for drying herbs, provided it is ventilated near the roof and has a warm current of air, caused by an ordinary coke or anthracite stove. Empty glass- houses can be readily adapted in drying-sheds, especially if heated by pipes and the glass shaded * ventilation is essential and there must be no tank in the house to cause steaming; the roof also must be quite watertight. Two or three days will be sufficient for thorough drying, which is essential should be carried out in a gentle heat never above 100° Fahr. and quickly, that the aromatic odour mas be preserved— the quicker they are dried, the better, as "heating" or fermentation may thereby be prevented. The best drying temperature for drying aromatic-, herbs is about 70°. Their strength and fineness of flavour depends greatly on their harvesting and drying. Oven drying of herbs should be avoided, as the oil is apt to evaporate somewhat before the leaves get dry. The bunches should be nearly equal in length and uniform in size to facilitate packing and placed when dry in airtight boxes or tins to prevent re-absorption of moisture. The leaves may also be stripped from the stems as soon aa thoroughly dry and rubbed through a fine sieve so as to be freed from stalk-; as much as possible, or pounded into a mortar and thus powdered stored in stoppered bottles, or tins rendered airtight.