70 nized, in former times it was considered a remedy for yet more disorders than at the present day. Its imagined quality of destroy- ing poison, to which Gerarde refers, was probably attributed to the plant from its remarkable power of overcoming strong scents, even the odour of garlic being rendered almost imperceptible when mingled with that of Parsley. The plant is said to be fatal to small birds and a deadly poison to parrots, and also very injurious to fowls, but hares and rabbiLs will come from a great distance to indulge their taste for Parsley, so thai it is scarcely |>ossible to pivserve it in gardens to which they have access, riheep are also fond of it, and it has been said to U-a sovereign remedy to preserve them from foot rot, provided it be given them in sufficient quantities, about, twice a week, for two 111 thi ••>• )i<hii * each time, beinc, recommended, but its beneficial action Hi, this disease is now-a-davs not universally accepted. The roots are collected for medicinal purposes in the second year, in autumn or late summer, when the plant lias (lowered. They are first cleaned well ami then sliced longitudinally if very thick, to hasten the progress of drying, which may be done in the open, in the ami, or indoor.-- by n d'n-iai iie.it. m a well-ventilated shed or \ room, care U-ing taken that the hot air can escape at the top of the r n I l.e io,.t- mint i •• .11 \ t'i the cue and brittle, snapping when l*Mit. The Ix-at time for collecting the leaves for medicinal use is just before the plants come into flowei. They should be gathered in the morning, on a fine, dry day, after the dew has been dried off by the sun. If it is sufficiently warm, they may be dried out of doors, on wire sieve - or netting trays, raised a few feet above the ground, in half-shade, care being taken to bring them in before there is any chance of becoming damp from dew. A sunny attic or loft may "also be employed, the window being >eft open by day, so that then? is a current of air and the room does not become steamy. The leaves can be placed on coarse butter-cloth, »tentcly i.e., if hooks are placed Ivneath the window and on the opposite wall; the butter- cloth can be attached by rings sewn on each side of it and hooked on. so that it is stretched quite I.oil. The best drying temperature for aromatic herbs is from 70° to 80°. If there be no sun to warm the room, it may be heated by a coke or anthracite stove, provided that there is good ventilation. To dry parsley towards the close of the summer for culinary