51 It is also used in perfumery and for scenting soaps. A pound of oil is the usual yield of 500 lbs. of the seed. The chief medicinal use of Fennel fruit is one of the ingredi- ents of the well-known Compound Liquorice Powder. Fennel water has properties similar to those of Anise and Dill water : mixed with sodium bicarbonate and syrup, these waters constitute the domestic "gripe water," used to correct the flatulence of infants. Volatile oil of Fennel has these properties in concentration. Fennel is largely used for cattle condiments, as well as in human medical practice. It is one of the plants which is said to be disliked by flies, and powdered Fennel has the effect of driving away flies from kennels and stables. In Italy and France, the tender leaves are often used for garnishes and to add flavour to salads, and are also added, finely chopped, to sauces served with puddings. The tender stems are employed in soups in Italy, though more frequently eaten raw as a salad. The famous " Cartucci," of Naples, consists of the peeled stems, cut when the plant is about to bloom, and served with a dressing of vinegar and pepper. In olden days, poor people used to eat Fennel to satisfy the cravings of hunger on fast days Finnichio, or Florence Fennel (Foeniculum dulce) is a native of Italy, a small annual, even when full-grown and pro- ducing seed rarely exceeding 2 ft. in height. It is a very thick-set plant, the stem joints are very close together and their bases much swollen. The large, finely-cut leaves are borne on very broad, pale green, or almost whitish stalks, which overlap at their bases somewhat like celery, swelling at maturity to form a sort of head or irregular ball—often as big as a man's head and resembling a tuber. Cultivation. The cultivation is much the same as for Common Fennel, though it requires richer soil, and owing to the dwarf nature of the plant the rows and the plants may be placed closer together, the seedlings only 6 to 8 ins. apart. They are very thirsty, and require watering frequently in dry weather. When the "tubers" swell and aUain the size of an egg, draw the soil