22 blending of Angelica in jam making and its combination in other confections, including temperance beverages. A pleasant form of Hop Bitters is made by taking 1 oz. of Dried Angelica herb, combined with 1 oz. Hole Thistle and i oz. Hops, infused with three pints of boiling water, and strained oil' when cold, a wineglassful being taken several times a day, before meals, and forming a good appetiser. To Preserve Angelica. Cm in pieces 4 ins. long, steep for IS hours in salt and water. Put a layer of cabbage or cauliflower leaves in a clean bntfM pan, then a layer of Angelica, then another layer of leaves and so on, finishing with a layer of leaves on the top Cover with water ami vinegar. Boil slowly till the Angelica occoines quite green, then strain and weigh the stoms. Allow 1 II). loaf sugar to each pound of steins. Put the sugar on in a clean pan with wawi to cover; boil 10 minutes, and pour this syrup over the Angelica. Stand for 12 hours Pour oil the syrup, DOU it up for five minutes and pour it again over the Angelica. Repeat the process, and after the Angelica has stood in the syrup I'.' hours, put all on the tire in the brass pan and boil till tender. Then take out tin' pieces of Angelica, put them in a jar and pour (be syrup over them, or dry them on a sieve and sprinkl them with sugar: they then form candy. ANISE: Pimpinella anisum (Linn). .\n:-r ,~ a little uuil>elliferous annual, highly valued as a cultivated crop prior to out era, both in Palestine and other parts of the K.M It is a native of Egypt, (Greece, Crete and Asia Minor, whs cultivated liv the ancient Egyptians and well known to the (5 .m ka and Roman*. Pliny tell us that "Both green and dried, it is held in high repute as an ingredient In all seasonings ami sauces, and is also placed beneath the umlorerustof bread." In the Middle A nt, its cultivation spread to central Europe. In this country, Anise has been in use since the 14th century, and has boon an inhabitant of English gardens from the middle of the 16th century, but it ripens its seeds here only in very warm summers, and it is chiefly in wanner countries that it is grown on a commercial scale, Southern Russia, Bulgaria, Germany, Malta, .Spain, Italy, (ircece and North Africa producing largo quantities. It has also been introduced into India and South America The cultivated plant attains a considerably larger size than the wild one.