68 When curled Parsley is desired and is difficult to obtain, by there being no sufficiently sheltered spot in the garden for it, it may often be saved by placing a frame-light over the bed during severe weather to protect the plants, or they may be placed altogether in cold frames, ('are must be taken with all parsley plants grown thus in frames, to pick off all decaying leaves directly uoticed, and the soil should be stirred occasionally with a pointed stick between the plants, to prevent its becoming sour. Abundance of air should be given on all favourable occasions, removiug the light altogether on fine days. In fi**ld culture, if sown in drills 12-15 ins. apart. 6 or 7 lbs. of seed will be needed for the acre. For cultivation on a smaller scale, an ounce may Ik? found sufficient for 50 to 100 ft. of drill, which quantity should be enough for an ordinary family. The first cutting of leaves from field-sown seed should be ready by mid-summer. A succession of cuttings can be obtained. Aliout three weeks are required for a new crop of leaves to grow and mature after the plants h..ve been cut. Larger yields can be secured by cutting only the fully-matured leaves, allowing the others to remain and develop for later cuttings, it being possible to •rather three or four times as much from a given area in this way. \s Parsley is grown for its leaves, n can scarcely be over- fertilised, and to obtain I he W-<t result- i \ of nitrogenous foou must be in the soil, which should be well supplied with humus, pre- ferablv that derived from decaying leguminous crops, or from stable manure: a good roui|x)und manure may also he applied. If it is desired to save the seed, the heads are cut when the bulk of the seed is brown, or at least dark-coloured. The stalks must be cut carefully to avoid shaking the seed off. They are laid upon sheets of canvas and threshed very lightly, at once, to remove only the ripest seed. Then the stalks are spread thinly upon sheets in the sun for a couple of days, when they are threshed again, by which time, all the seed ripe enough to germinate will fall off. Spread both sets of seed thinly on sheets in an airy shed or loft, turning daily for 10 days Of a fortnight, to make sure that they become perfectly dry, before storing in airtight receptacles. Tj8e8. The uses of Parsley are many and by no means restricted to the culinary sphere. The most familiar employment of the leaves in their fresh state is, of course, finely-chopped, as a