59 seed is small and should be sown either in drills, nine inches apart, or broadcast, on the surface, trodden, raked evenly and watered in dry weather. On account of the slowness of germination, care should be taken that the seedlings are not choked with weeds, which being of much quicker growth are likely to do so if not destroyed. They should be removed by the hand, until the plants are large enough to use the small hoe with safety. Seed may also be sown early in May. In common with other aromatic herbs, such as Fennel, Basil, Dill, &c, it is not subject to the attacks of birds, as many other seeds are, When about an inch high, thin out to six or eight inches apart each way. It begins to flower in the end of June, when the first cutting of the herb may be taken. Winter Marjoram, O. Heracleoticum, is generally propagated by division of the roots in autumn. When it is desired to dry the leaves for winter use, the stems should be cut just as the flowers begin to appear, and dried in the usual manner. If seed is wanted, cut the stems soon after the flowers fall, when" the scales around the seeds look as if they were beginning to dry. Dry the cut stems on trays of some closely woven material to prevent loss of seed. When the stems are thoroughly dry they must be threshed and rubbed before being placed in sieves, first of coarse, then of fine mesh. Uses. The Marjorams are some of the most familiar of our kitchen herbs, and are cultivated for the use of their aromatic leaves, either in a green or dried state, for flavouring and other culinary purposes, being mainly put into stuffings. Sweet Marjoram leaves are also excellent in salads. The "swete margerome" was so much prized before the introduction of various foreign perfumes that, as Parkinson tells us, "swete bags," "swete powders" and "swete washing water," made from this plant were widely used. Our forefathers also scoured their furniture with its aromatic juices, and it is one of the herbs mentioned by Tusser (1577) as used for strewing chambers. The flowering tops yield a dye, formerly used in the country to dye woollen cloth purple, and linen a reddish-brown, but the tint is neither brilliant nor durable. The tops are also sometimes put into table beer, to give it an aromatic flavour and make it keep, and before the introduction of hops, they were nearly as much in demand for ale brewing as the ground ivy or wood sage. It is said that