72 presented lo the wedding; guests, as a symbol of love and loyalty. Tog-ether with an orange .stuck with cloves it often served as a little New Year's gift—allusions to this custom are to be found in Ben Johnson's plays. Sir Thomas More writes : " As for Rosmarine, I lett it ruune all over my garden walls, not onlie because my bees love it, but l»ecause it is the herb sacred to remembrance, and, therefore, to friendship; whence a sprig of it hath a dumb language that makrtli it the chosen emblem of our funeral wakes and in our burial I grounds." In place of BOM costly incense, the ancients often employed Rosemary in their religious ceremonies. An old French name for it was Incentir It whs an "hi custom t-n burn Rosemary in Hck chambers, because of its supposed preservative |x>weis against pestilential disorders. In the French hospitals it is customary to burn Rosemary, together with Junijvi l*jrries. foi purifying the air and preventing infection. Like Kue, it was placed in the dock of courts of justice, to guard those present from the contagion of gaol-fever that might have tieen biought in by the prisoner. In early times, Rosemary was freely cultivated in kitchen gardens Slid came to represent the dominant inllueuce of the house mistress. "Where Rosemary flourished the woman ruled." Sprigs of the .shrub were formerly stuck into beef, whilst being roasted, as a relish and used as a seasoning for poultry. It was cultivated by the S|>at;iards in the Kith century, and fro.n the l.'»th to the I Nth century was pipular as a condiment with salt meats, but has since declined in populsrity, until now it is used for seasoning almost exclusively in Italian, French, Spanish and Uerman cookery. Description. The plant is a half-hardy evergreen grow- ing 2 ft. or more high, the erect, branching, woody stems bearing a prolusion of little, narrow, blunt leaves, less than an inch long, with their margins turned back, their surfaces dark green above and hoary white bentath. I he leaves have a pungently aromatic and •what camphoraceous odour. The llowers are arranged in leafy clusters in the upper parts of the stem, and are small and pale blue; much of the active volatile principle resides in their calyces, though all parts of ihe plant are flagrant.