88 will supply the place of nutmeg and cinnamon." Gerarde tells us that Tansy Teas were highly esteemed in Lent, as well as Tansy puddings. Tansy is connected with some interesting old customs observed at Easter time, when, says the old Chronicler, the clergy of some churches, even the Archbishops and Bishops, were wont to play at handbill with men of their congregation, and a Tansy cake was the reward of the victors. These Tansy cakes were made from the young leaves nf the plant, mixed with eggs, and were thought to purify the humour* <>f the body after the limited fare of Lent. In time, this custom obtained a kind of symbolism, and Tansies, as these cakes .•.fie called, came to be eaten on Kastei Day as a remembrance of the bitter herbs eaten by the Jews at the Passover Coles (1656) says the origin of eating it in the spring is because Tansy is very whole some after the salt ti-h consumed during Lent, and counteracts the ill effecth which the " moist and cold constitution ol winter has made on people ' As a bitter tonic. Tansy tea has an old reputation in country district* for fever and other illnesses. It is largely used for expelling worms in children, anil is also considered valuable in hysteria and in kidney weaknesses. TARRAGON. Artemisia Draounculus (Linn.). Tarragon, a member of the composite tribe, closely allied to Wormwood, as a fairly hardy, herbaceous, rather shrubby perennial —a native of southern Russia, Siberia and Tartary, and ctdtivated for the last 500 years in Kurope for the use of its aromatic leaves and tender shoots. Tarragon is more common in Continental than in Knglish cookery, and has long been cultivated in France for culinary purposes. The name Tarragon is a Corruption of the French Etdragoiiy derived from the Latin I>> u um-ulus, a little dragon, which also serves as its specific name It was of old sometimes called little Dragon Mugwort, and in French has also the name Herb? an DtOffon. To this, as to other Dragon herbs was ascribed the faculty of curing the bites and stings of venomous beasts and of mad dogs. The name is practically the same in most countries, though no real reason for the title is known. Description. The plant has numerous branching stems, which grow to a height of about 2 ft. and boar long, narrow leaves