34 of white flowers which blossom in June. The fruits—which are popularly and incorrectly called seeds—and which correspond in general character to those of the other plants of this largo family, are laterally compressed, somewhat horny and translucent, slightly curved, and marked with five distinct, pale ridges. They evolve a pleasant, aromatic odour when bruised, aud have an agreeable taste. The leaves possess similar properties and afford an oil identical with that of the fruit, though it is not made use of. Cultivation. Caraway does best whenjtbe seeds are sown in the autumn, as soon as ripe, though they may be sown in March. Sow in (bills, 1ft. apart, the plant** when strong enough, being thinned out to about 8 ins. in the rows. The ground will require an occasional hoeiti;- t<« keep it clean and assist the growth of the plants. Krom an autumn-sown nop, seeds will lie produced in the following summer, ripenii g al>out August. When the fruit ripens the plants are cut about. 12 ins. above tin- ground with fti< kles, and the Caraways are separated by thresh- ing. They can lie dried either on tra^ s m the sun. or by very gentle heat over a stoxe. rdiakin^ occasionally. Although Caraway is indigenous to all parts of Kurope, SiU-iii. Turkey hi \-ia, Persia. India and North Africa, vet it is cultivated only in a few comjwratively restricted areas. It grows wild m many [xarts of Canada ami the United States, but is nowhere grown there as a field or garden crop. Its cultivation is restricted to relatively small areas in Kngland, Holland, » km many, Finland, Kussia, Norway and Morocco, wh*re it constitutes one of the chief agricultural industries within its narrow confines. It has so far ived c.,,n|Mia!i\cix little attention in Kngland, where.it is <.toxvu only in Ksaex. Kent and Suffolk. u|hjii old grass land broken up for the purpose. Holland cultivates the main crop, producing and exporting far larger quantities than any other country. I Mitch Caraway in preferred among consumers in the United States, and the bulk used there comes from Holland. Morocco produces a grade of Caraway that comes regularly into the Kuglish and American markets, but is somewhat inferior in quality. During the last year or two there has been a scarcity of Caraway, owing partly to the fact that the extensive area of land in Holland usually employed for the cultivation of the piani was devastated by floods toward.- the c'o.>e of L915, Moreover, the exportation of Caraway