35 from Holland was forbidden. The Cultivation of Caraway plants has therefore been advised as likely to be profitable, as on account of the ruling- scarcity the price of Caraway seed became double what it was before the war. Much Dill seed was sold in its place, especially Indian Dill seed. In 1918, a small grower reported that she had netted £5 from growing Caraway on a corner of what other- wise would have been waste ground. Uses. The tender leaves in spring have been boiled in soup to give it an aromatic flavour, and occasionally the leaves and young shoots have been used as an ingredient in salads. The roots are thick and tapering, like a parsnip, though much smaller and are edible. Parkinson declared them, when young, to be superior in flavour to Parsnips. Mixed with milk and made into bread, they are said to have formed the " Chara" of Julius Csesar, eaten by the soldiers of Valerius. It is the seeds, however, that are the important part. Caraway is frequently mentioned by the old writers. In the Middle Ages and in Shakespeare's time it was very popular, and was more freely used in this country than in our own days. " The seed," says Parkinson, " is much used to be put among baked fruit, or into bread, cakes, etc., to give them a rellish. It is also made into comfites and taken for cold or wind in the body, which also are served to the table with fruit." In Hmry IV., Second part, Squire Shallot invites Palstaff to "a pippin and a dish of caraways." The custom of serving roast apples with a little saucerful of Caraway is still kept up at Trinity College, Cambridge, and at some of the old- fashioned London Livery Dinners, just as in Shakespeare's days— and in Scotland to this day a saucerful is put down at tea to dip the buttered side of bread into and called "salt water jelly." I have not yet come across the reason of its getting this name. The scattering of the seed over cakes has long been practised, and Caraway-seed cake was formerly a standing institution at the feasts given by farmers to their labourers at the end of the wheat sowing. The little Caraway comfits consist merely of the seeds encrusted with white sugar. In Germany, the peasants flavour their cheese, cabbage, soups, and houshold bread with Caraway, and in Norway and Sweden, polenta-like, black, Caraway bread is largely eaten in country districts and is delicious. The oil extracted from the fruits is used as an ingredient of