62 As the plant is a perennial, spreading by means of its under- ground, creeping stems, propagation may easily be effected by lift- ing the roots in February or March, dividing them—every piece showing a joint will grow—and planting again in shallow trenches, covering with *J ins. of soil, (i ft. apart in rows and S ins between the rows are the right distances to allow. Cuttings in summer or offsets in spring may also bo utilised for increasing stock. Cuttings may be taken at almost any time during the summer, always choosing the young shoots, these being struck on a shady liorder of light soil and kept moist; or a better plan, if possible, is to insert them in a frame, keeping them close and uioisl till rooted. Cuttings or young shoots will also strike freely in good size boxes in n heated greenhouse in the early spring, and after the tops have been taken off two or three times for use, the plants may be hardened off and planted outside. The beds are much benefitted by an annual top-dressing of rich soil, applied towards the close of autumn, when all remaining stalks should be cut down to the ground. A liberal top dressing of shoit, deeaved manure. Mich as that from an old hoi bod or mush room bed, annually, either in the spring when it commences to grow, ^ or better still, perhaps, after the first or second cutting, will ensure luxuriant growth Frequent cuttings of shoots constitute a great drain on the plants, and if not properly nourished they will fail, mere or less. To have really good Mint, the plantation should bo re made about every three years. W hen the plants jare about to bloom, the stalks should be cut on a dry day and dried for culinary use in the winter, being suspended in bunches to dry. in the usual manner. If the horb is to be distilled for the sake of its volatile oil. it should l»e taken to the distillery as soon as possible after picking. A good stock should be kept up, so that plenth may be available for forcing. For culinary purposes green leaves are always preferable to dry ones, atid forcing is very easy, the only preparation being the insertion of a quantity of good roots in a box of light soil, which should be placed in a temperatuao of about 60" and watered freely as soon as growth starts. Cuttings may be made in two or three weeks. Forcing wiil generally be necessary from November to May - a succession being kept up by the introduction at intervals of an additional supply of roots. Often Mint is so