48 fish, or mixed with pickled cucumbers are said to give them a spicy taste. Hill vinegar, however, forms a popular household condiment. It is made by soaking the seeds in good vinegar for a few days before using. The French use Dill seeds for flavouring preserves, cakes and pastry, as well as for flavouring sauces, hut their use of them does not appeal to us in this country. Perhaps the chief culinary use of Dill seeds is in pickling encumbers: they are employed in this way chiefly in Oermany, where pickled cucumbers are largely oaten. Like the Other umiiellifernus fruits and volatile oils both Dill fruit and Oil of Dill posses stimulant, aromatic, carminative and stomachic properties Dill Oil its almost identical in composition with Caraway Oil It is used m mixtures and as Dill water, which is a common domestic remedy for the flatulence of infants, and is a useful vehicle for child ton-!* medicine generally. It is also used for pet fuming snaps As ,i drug. Dill fruits have been in use fiom very early times. The Hiiush Pharmacopoeia directs that only the fruits from Knglish- irrown plants shall be employed pharmaceutical]}*, and it is grown in Kaat Anglia for that purpose. It is also largely cultivated in (iei many. Indian Dill, another species, not employed medicinally in Kurope. is widely grown in the Hast Indies, under the name of Borah, its fruit and leaves being used for flavouring pickles. and DULCE. Fennel, a hardy perennial, umbelliferous herb, with yellow flowers and feathei y ieaves. ^o\v« wild in most pails of temperate Kurope. apji;t:e;,t!\ in ligeiious to the shores of the Mediterranean, eastward*, but is largely cultivated for medicinal use in the south of France, Saxon ,. (iHiiuia and liussia, as well as in India and Persia, h is now naturalised in some parts of this country, especially in Devon and Corn well and on chalk cliffs near the sea. The plant was cultivated by the ancient Romans ior its aromatic fruits and succulent, edib | shoots. Its cuiture was ordered