27 SWEET BASIL.—Ocymum Basilium (Linn.). BUSH BASIL.—0. Minimum. Common or Sweet Basil, which is used in medicine and also for culinary purposes, especially in Prance, is an annual, belonging to the order Labiatae. The plant is a native of tropical Asia, where for centuries, especially in India, it has been highly esteemed as a condiment. It was introduced into England about the middle of the 16th century. The derivation of the name Basil is uncertain. Some say it comes from the Greek basileus, a king1, for some reason unknown, unless as Parkinson says, because "the smel! thereof is so excellent that it is fit for a king's house," or it may have been termed royal, because used of old in some regal unguent, or bath, or medicine. In Prance, it is known as Herbe B,oyale, royal herb. The generic name is derived from Oza, a Greek word signifying odour. Boccacio's story of Isabella and the Pot of Basil, immortalised for us by the pen of Keats and the brush of Rossetti, keeps the plant in our memory, though it is now somewhat rarely seen culti- vated in this country. It was formerly a more frequent denizen of English herb gardens, for Tusser includes it among the Strewing herbs, and Drayton places it first in order, when enumerating the herbs in his poem Polyolbion. " With Basil then I will begin Whose scent is wondrous pleasing.",' In Tudor days, little pots of Basil were often given as grace- ful compliments by farmers' wives to visitors and their landladies. Parkinson says of it: The ordinary Basil is in a manner wholly spent to make sweete or washing waters among other sweet herbs, yet sometimes it is put into nosegays. The Physicall properties are to procure a cheerfull and merry hearte whereunto the seeds is chiefly used in powder." Description. Sweet Basil is a hairy plant growing about three feet high. The stem is obtusely quadrangular, the labiate flowers are white, in whorls in the axils of the leaves, the calyx with the upper lobe rounded and spreading. The leaves, greyish-green beneath and dotted with dark oil cells, are opposite, one inch long