20 first appear and thus preventing the formation of seed, the plants may continue for several years longer. By cutting down the stems right at their base the plants practically become perennial, by the development of side shoots around the stool head. If the seeds are required, they should be gathered when ripo and treaU'd as described on page 15. The Men!, which is in great <ieinand when trimmed and candied, should be cut about dune or early July. UseB. Angelica is largely used in the grocery trade as well .... for medicine, ami is a popular flavour for confectionery and lic|iiour8. The appreciation of its uniijue flavour was established in ancient times when -accharin was extremely rare. The preparation of Angelica is a small but important industry in the south of Kumce, its cultivation being centralised in Clermont- Ferrand I\i l\ ftrgt -piantitios are purchased by confeelioners, and high prices nre always easily obtainable. The flavour of \ lien distinctly sugu'fl*'* that of Juniper berrios, as already mentioned, and it is largely used in combination with .Juniper iries, orin partial lubebtUUOti for them, by pin distillers. The stem i ;ii used in the preparation of preserved fruits and "confitures generally, and is al«o use ! as an aromatic garnish by confectioners. II.- t-. Ica\e« and seeds arc used either in infu- sion or tea* medicinuly The seeds, especially, which are aromatic ami bitterish, arc employed as alcoholic distillates, especially in the preparation of Vermouth and similar preparations, as well as in liqueurs. QOtfthlj * hut reuse, and to a small extent in perfumery. Kioin iiii.si am icnt linn's. Angelica has been one of the chief flavouring in ledieiits of be- < : .i at - . Inpiem . bui piobably it will oe known only to a tow people that the Muscatel (Jrape like flavour ol some wines made on both sides of the Khine (l (or is suspected to be) due to the secret use of Angelica. An Oil of Angelica, which is very expensive was prepared in Germany >omc years ago ; it is obtained in smaller quantity from the roots, 200 lbs. of which, it is said, yield only about 1 lb. of the oil. Like the seeds, the oil is used for flavouring. Though the tender leaflets, of blades of the leaves, have sometimes been recommended as a substitute for spinach, they are too bitter for the general taste, but the blanch m| mid ribs of the leaf, boiled and used as a celery, arc delicious, and Icelanders eat both