32 ticke and lunaticke person. The leaves eaten raw ingender good blood, especially in those that have l>een lately sicke." The stems and leaves supply much saline mucilage, which when boiled and cooked likewise deposits nitre and common «ah. It is to these saline qualities that the wholesome invigorating' effects and specially recruiting properties of Borage are supposed to be due, as they promote the activity of the kidneys. Boragr flowers are also dried for mixing with Pot Pourri, mainly for the sake of their bright blue colour. They should be collected as early as possible before expansion, but when fully formed, otherwise they soon lose their colour, and must not be allowed to lie in heaps before drying. Lay them on trays in thin layers in a current of air as soon as possible after gathering. BURNET. Poterium Sanguisorba (Linn.). The (iarden <>r Salad Bui net a member of the natural order Rosaneae, is assigned t<» the genus Poterium, which name is derived "j>oterion" a drinking cup, from the use (■ which its leaves wer<« applied in the preparation of the numerous beverages with which the •'poterion" was filled in ancient times. It is common in dry |<istures and by the wayside, especially on chalk and limestone, but is rarer in Scotland and Ireland than in Kn^laud. Description. The Salad Burnet is an elegant, little plant, it* stems rising about a foot high, its leaves being on long stalks bearing 5-10 pairs of sharply toothed leaflets. The. flowers are in oblong heads, on long stalks, with 4-toothed, coloured membralieous calyces, with erims-m tufted stigmas,and the lower ones with 30-40 stamens having very long drooping filaments. Both the flower and loaf-stalks are of deep crimson colour. Cultivation. It is easily propagated hy seeds, sown in autumn, soon after they are ripe. If the seeds b°> permitted to Oatter, the plants will come up plentifully, and can be transplanted into an ordinary or rather poor soil, at about a foot distant each wav. If Itept clear from weeds, they will continue some years with- out further care, especially if the !»oil be dry. Propagation may also be effected by division of roots in spring or autumn. When used for salad, the (lower-stalks should be cut down if not required for seed. The leaves, for salad used, should be cut young, or may be tough.