53 needed than keeping clean from weeds. It does not blossom until it is two years old. Often the clumps may be divided, or layers or cuttings may be used for propagation. No protection need be given as the plants are hardy. It is much cultivated in southern France, and it might probably pay to cultivate it more in this country. Uses. Horehound has long been noted for its efficacy in lung troubles and coughs. For ordinary cold, a simple infusion of Horehound (Horehound Tea) is generally sufficient in itself to secure its removal. The tea may be made by pouring boiling water on the fresh or dried leaves, one ounce of the latter to the pint, and sweet- ening this with honey. A wineglassful may be taken three or four times a day. Candied Horehound is best made from the fresh plant by boiling it down until the juice is extracted, then adding sugar at the rate of 8 or 10 lbs. to one pint of the strong decoction. This is boiled till of a very thick consistency and poured into moulds, or small paper cases, previously well dusted with finely-powdered white sugar, or poured on dusted marble slabs, and cut into squares when cool. Two or three teaspoonfuls of the expressed juice of the herb may also be given as a dose in severe colds. The herb is also brewed and made into Horehound Ale, an appetising and healthful beverage, much drunk in Norfolk and other country districts. Bees are very fond of Horehound nectar, and the honey they make from the flowers where they are abundant has a high reputa- tion, and used to be almost as popular as Horehound candy, and was obtainable from Druggists, as it was supposed to be very, good for the throat. HYSSOP.—Hyssopus Officinalis (Linn.). The Hyssop is a perennial evergreen undershrnb, belonging to the order Labiatse^ and is a native of the Mediterranean region. It gets its name from the Greek. The Hyssopos of Dioscorides was named Azob, a holy herb, because used for clean- ing sacred places. Hence it is alluded to in this sense scripturally :