73 There are varieties with silver and gold striped leaves, but the green-leaved variety is the kind used medicinally and for the extraction of the oil, obtained by distillation from its flowering tops : The blossoms contain much nectar, and the famous Narbonne honey is said to derive its flavour from Rosemary, which grows there in great profusion. Cultivation. Rosemary is propagated by seeds, cuttings and layers, and also by division of roots. Seeds may be sown upon a warm, sunny border in February or March. Cuttings, taken in August, six inches long, and dibbled into a shady border, two-thirds of their length in the ground, under a hand glass, will root and be ready for transplanting into permanent quarters the following autumn. Layering may be readily accom- plished in summer by bringing some of the lower branches down and pegging them beneath a little sandy soil. Rosemary succeeds best in a light, rather dry soil, and in a sheltered situation, such as the base of a low wall with a south aspect. On a chalk soil it grows smaller, but is more fragrant. The silver and gold-striped kinds are not quite so hardy. The finest plants are said to be raised from seed. Uses. The tender fresh leaves and stems and the flowers have been used for flavouring stews, fish and meat sauces. They may also be used in small quantities for summer cups, such as cider cup and claret cup, and a small pinch is also agreeable in salads. In the south of France large quantities, both cultivated and wild, are used for distilling Oil of Rosemary, which is extensively used in perfumery, especially in the manufacture of Eau-de-Coiogne, Hungary water and other perfumes. It is also employed in per- fuming soaps, tobacco and sachet powder. Spirit of Rosemary is largely used in hair-lotions, for its odour and effect in specially stimulating the hairbulbs to renewed activity and preventing premature baldness. An infusion of the dried plant (both 1 eaves and flowers) combined with Borax and used when cold makes one of the best hair-washes known. It forms an effectual remedy for the prevention of scurf and dandtiff. Rosemary is of long usage as a hair-wash, for we know that the ancients not only valued the plant as a means to refresh the