3 Parsley (Carum Petroselinum), Dill (Anethum graveolens), Fennel (Foeniculum clulce and officinale), Angelica (Archangelica officinalis), Anise (Pimpinella anisura), Caraway (Carum Carvi), Coriander (Coriandrum sativum), Chervil (Scandix Cerefolium), Cumin (Cumin um Cyminum), Lovage (Levisticum officinale). The stems of umbelliferous plants are cylindrical and usually hollow ; the leaves placed alternately on the stem are generally compound (i.e., cut into right up to the mid-rib, not merely toothed, as in Labiatse), and the basis of their stalks broaden out into a sheath which clasps the stem. The flowers are small, generally white or pinkish, sometimes yellow, and mostly arranged in umbels, i.e., the stalks of each little group springing all from one point, like the ribs of an umbrella, these umbels, or umbellules, being generally also grouped each on separate stalks converging to a central point—thus forming a compound umbel, which terminates the main stem. The fruits are composed of two seedlike, dry portions, or carpels, each containing a single seed and usually separating when ripe. Each carpel, or half of the fruit, bears 5 longitudinal, prominent ribs, and several lesser ones. In the spaces between the ribs are numerous oil ducts or vittae, to which the aromatic properties of the fruit are due. Though the oil is generally also found in other parts of the plant, it is present to the greatest extent in the fruits. With the exception of Tarragon, the sweet herbs belonging to the great order Compositse are less important. The distinguish- ing feature of this family of plants is that the flowers are arranged in tightly packed heads on a disc, or "receptacle," which is sur- rounded by closely fitting, leaf-like bracts, termed the " involucre," forming a kind of cup. Only four plants belonging to this family are deserving of our consideration as sweet herbs, though others, such as Dandelion and Chicory, are also useful in the kitchen as salad plants. These four are :— Marigold (Calendula officinalis), 'Southernwood (Artemisia Abrotanum), Tans}' (Tanacetum vulgaris), ".. Tarragon (Artemisia Dracuuculus).