15 An objection to such decoctions is that the flavour of vinegar is not always desired in a culiuary preparation, as well as that of the herb itself. Tarragon, Mint and the seed herbs such as Dill are more often used in ordinary cookery as infusions than otherwise. Seed Herbs. The time of harvesting the herbs whose seed is used, such as Dill, Anise, Caraway, etc., differs from that customary with the foliage herbs mainly in the ripeness of the plants, which are gathered as soon as the seeds show signs of maturity but before they are ready to drop. Special care must be paid to the details of cleaning. The seed-heads to present a good appearance should be gathered before they come at all weather- beaten. Next, the seed must be perfectly clean, free from chaff, bits of broken stem and other debris ; much depends upon the method of handling as well as upon harvesting. In threshing, care must be taken to avoid bruising the seeds, especially the oily ones, by pounding too hard, or by tramping upon them. Threshing should never be done in damp weather—always when the air is very dry. In clear weather, after the sun has dried off the dew, the ripe plants or seed-heads are harvested and spread thinly on stout, closely woven cloth-ticking or sail-cloth in a warm open shed, where the air circulates freely. Generally in a few days, the tops will have become dry enough to be beaten out with a light flail or rod, care being taken not to injure the seed. It is a good plan to carry out the threshing on a sheet spread on a lawn, whereby the force of the blows will be lessened and bruising of the seeds prevented. A convenient size for the sheet is 10 feet by 10. After threshing, the seeds should be sieved to remove portions of the stalks, and then allowed to remain for several days longer in a very thin layer, being turned every day to remove the last vestige of moisture. It is also a good plan to have the drying sheet suspended a few feet from the ground, so that the air may circulate below as well as above the seed. Not less than a week for the smallest seeds, and double that time for the larger ones, is neccessary to carry out drying effectively. Small quantities of seeds may be rubbed out from the heads between the palms of the hands, instead of threshing. It is imperative that the seed be dry before being put into storage packages or tins. If infusions are to be made of the seed, the drying is, of course, unnecessary, the seed being put into the vinegar as soon as the broken bits of stem are removed by seiving, after threshing has been carried out.