36 alcoholic liqueur?: both the Russians and the Germans make from Caraway a liqueur. " Kummel." and Caraway enters into the com- position of I'lmile <le Venus and other cordials. From fi lbs. of the unhrnised seeds, 4 oz. of the pure essential oil can be expressed. The exh uivteil seed, fter the distillation of the oil, contains a high |>ercenlage of protein and fat, and is used as a cattle food. Uoth fruit and oil possess aromatic, stimulent and carminative properties. Caraway was widely employed at one time an a carmin- ative cordial, and was recommended in dyspepsia, and symtoms attending hysleiia and other disot iters. It possesses some amount of tonic property and forms a pleasant stomachic. Its former ex- tensive employment in medicine has much dec eased in recent years, and the oil ami fruit ate now principally employed as adjuncts to other medicines as corrective or favouring agents, combined with purgatives I'oi flatulent indigestion, however, from 1-4 drops of the essential oi M 'u.iw iv : ,\en on a lump of su^ar, or in a toa- siioonful of water, will be fo nd eflioacious. Distilled Caraway water i.s conside.ed. moreover, a useful remedy in the llatulent colic of infant-, and is an excellent vehicle tor children's medicine. When sweetened, it.- llav, m is agreeable. The flavour of the oil dufers slightly in different varieties, the Noilh Kiii-aiari l**mg prefected for the preparation of Kummel, while the oil distilled from the Tunis variety of Caraway in of less pleasant flavout than the Hutch and English Caraways, and is mainly used for perfuming »oaps, such as brown Windsor soap The home-grown < 'araway is considered the liest : the seeds are of a l»n_rhter tint than the other varieties. CATMINT. Nepeta Cartaria (Linn.). Catmint or Catnep, a wild English plant l)elongintf to the large family lj<il>mt<t. i>. generally distributed throughout the central and the southern counties of England, in hedgerows, borders of fields, and on dry Iwinks ami waste ground, especially in chalky and gra velly soil. It is less common in the nortn. very looai in Scotland and rate in Ireland, but of frequent occurrence in the whole of Europe and temperate Asia, and also common m North America, where origin- ally, however, it was an introduced species.