CULINARY HERBS. SWEET or Culinary Herbs may be defined as plants whose green parts, ripe seeds or tender roots have an aromatic flavour and fragrance due to a volatile oil, or to some other chemical substance peculiar to the individual species. Owing to the fragrance most of these herbs possess, they have been called sweet, and from their use in cookery for the purpose of imparting their characteristic flavour to soups, stews, dressings, sauces and salads, they are popularly called "Culinary," though this term is less appropriate than the former, since many other herbs such as cabbage, spinach, kale, etc., are also, strictly speaking, culinary herbs j but these, being used as vegetables and not as flavouring, are more accurate^ known as potherbs, and others, also employed for the table, but in an uncooked state, we distinguish as Salad Herbs. " ORIGIN OF SWEET HERBS. Most of the sweet herbs in question, though now found grow- ing freely in every well-stocked kitchen garden in this country, were originally natives of the Mediterranean region, and were in use by the nations bordering its shores from the earliest days, long before our era. There are references in both the Old and New Testament to various herbs—Mint, Anise, Rue, Cumin and others—and among the Greeks and Romans, many of our garden herbs were held in great esteem, and employed by them and through the Middle Ages, probably far more than at the present time. Medicinal Uses. Several of the plants were also formerly so prominent in medicine as to be designated " official," and nearly all were extensively used by the physicians of olden days. Only a few, however, still hold their place in official medicine, though most of them are still valued in domestic practice, and several are still employed on account of their pleasant, aromatic flavour to disguise the disagreeable taste of other drugs. Some, however, considered by the great herbalists of 300 years ago as specifics for certain diseases and also efficacious for innumerable other maladies, have almost entirely lost their reputations and are even regarded now as almost inert.