16 Herbal Recipes. Old time English Oooks made far more use of the garden products than do the modern ones. At the present day. also, Italian and Flemish cookery are prolific of recipes in which many garden herhs appear, for instance, Rosemary and Southernwood, now no longer used by us in the kitchen. Our ancestors, however, recognist d the full value of our herbs, and many old recipes still exist in which they plav a part. In Warner's "Antiquities of the Culinary Art," published in 1790. we find the following :— *• Fniore nf Erheg (herbs). 'Take good erbes. Gryndo horn ami MM (mix) hem with tioer ami water : and a little zest (yeast) and aalt, and frye hem in oyle and ete hem with clere hony." "A handful of slices horseradish root, »vith a handsome little i.i:• ..; \ln marv, I vine and Winter Savoury ' is recommendod in Cotton's sequel to "The Coiupleat Angler," in the directions for drossing a trout In another more recent cookery book we find a recipe for Herb Powder :— Take fresh Marjoram. Basil. Bay leaf. Thyme, Parsley, and dry in the sun until crisp. Pick carefully ofl* t lie Htalk and rub into fine powder. Add a small quantify of dried and pounded lemon peel, allowing to each ounce of herbs in powder one small saltapoon of salt and half this quantity of ground white pepper. Sift through a piece of coarse muslin, and store for use in small bottles. This makes an excellent herb powder for flavouring purposes. A Herb Mixture of equal proportions of Knotted Marjoram and Winter Savoury, with half the quantity of Basil, Thyme and Tarragon, all iubl>ad to powder and kept in a closely corked bottle is also recommended for use in forcemeat and for flavouring. Having discussed sweet herbs in general, their cultivation and propagation, how to harvest them and prepare them either for market or for home consumption, it now remains to deal with each herb separately. Though a description of each will be given with its habits and history, cultivation and uses in the kitchen, the medicinal properties and usee of the herbs will be found but lightly