47 Palestine, and was well-known in Pliny's time, and often mentioned by writers in the Middle Ages. Description. The plant grows ordinarily from 2-2J ft. high, and is very like Fennel, though smaller, having the same feathery leaves, though seldom more than one stalk, and, unlike Fennel, its root is only annual. It is of very upright growth, its stems smooth, shiny and hollow, and in midsummer bearing umbels with numerous yellow flowers, whose small petals are rolled inwards. The flat fruits, the so-called "seeds"—are produced in great quantities. They are very pungent and bitter in taste, and very light, an ounce containing over 25,000 seeds, Their germinating capacity lasts for three years. Cultivation. This annual is of very easy culture. When grown on a large scale for the sake of its fruits, it may be sown in drills 10 ins. apart, in March or April, 10 lbs. of the seed being drilled to the acre, and thinned out to leave 8-10 ins. room each way. Sometimes the seed is sown in autumn as soon as ripe, but it is not so advisable as spring sowing. Careful attention must be given to the destruction of weeds. Mowing is begun as the lower seeds begin to fall, the others ripening on the straw. In dry periods, cutting is best done in early morning, or late evening, care being taken to handle with the least possible shaking to prevent loss. The loose sheaves are built into stacks of about 20 sheaves, tied together. In hot weather, threshing may be done in the field, spreading the sheaves on a large canvas sheet and beating out. The crop is con- sidered somewhat exhaustive of soil fertility. The average yield is about 7 cwt. of Dill fruits per acre. The seeds are finally dried by spreading out on trays in the sun, or for a short time over the moderate heat of a stove, shaking occasionally. Uses. The taste of the seeds is an odd blend of different species, resembling Caraway, but distinct. The seeds are smaller, flatter and lighter than Caraway, and have a pleasant aromatic odour, and contain about 3-4 per cent, of a volatile oil, obtained by distillation, upon which the action of the fruit depends. As a sweet herb, Dill k not much used in this country. When employed, it is for flavouring soups, sauces, &c, for which purpose the young leaves only are required. The leaves added to