21 the stem and the roots raw, with butter. The taste of the juicy raw stems is at first sweetish and slightly bitter in the mouth, and then gives a feeling of glowing warmth. The Finns eat the young stems baked in hot ashes, and an infusion of the dried herb is drunk either hot or cold : the flavour of the decoction is rather bitter, the colour is a pale-greenish grey, and the odour greatly resembles China Tea. Another old practice is to put a portion of the herb into the pot in which fish is boiled. The Norwegians make bread of the roots. The roots form one of the principal aromatics of European growth ; the other parts of the plant have the same flavour, but their active principles are considered more perishable. Gerarde says of Angelica: "If you do but take a piece of the root and hold it in your mouth, or chew the same between your teeth, it doth most certainly drive away pestilent aire." If an incision is made in the bark of the stems and crown of the root, at the commencement of the spring, a resinous gum exudes, with aromatic flavour, similar to musk or benzoin, for either of which it can be substituted. If a small quantity of the leaf-stalks of Angelica be cooked with " sticks" of Rhubarb, the flavour of the compound will be acceptable to many who do not relish plain Rhubarb. The quantity of Angelica used may be according to circumstances, conditions and individual taste. If the stems are young and juicy, they may be treated like Rhubarb and cut up small, the quantity used being any proportion between 5 and 25 per cent. If the stalks are more or less fully developed, or even rather old and tough, they can be ex- cellently used in economically small quantities for flavouring large quantities of stewed Rhubarb, or Rhubarb Jam, being added in long lengths before cooking and removed before sending to table. The confectionery's candied Angelica may be similarly utilised, but is extremely expensive and not so good, whilst the home-garden growth in spring time of fresh Angelica, with thick, stout leaf- stalks and of still stouter flowering stems, is very easy and cheap. If this flowering stem be cut whilst very tender early in May, later leaf-stalks will be plentifully available for use with the latter part of the Rhubarb crop. The late Mr. Robertson, jam maker and confectioner of Chelsea, won considerable reputation by reason of his judicious