18 advanced seedlings flower in their second year, and the third year of growth commonly completes the full period of life. There is another species. Angelica Heterocarpa, which is credited with being truly perennial : it Bowers a few weeks later than the biennial species and is not so ornamental in its foliage. The roots of the common Angelica are long, spindle-shaped and fleshy - Urge specimens weighing sometimes as much as three pounds. The >if-ins are stout, tinted. 4 to lift, high and hollow the foliage is hold and pleasing, the leaves are. on long, stout, hollow foot-stalks, often 3 ft. in length, reddish purple at the clasping bases ; t'ie blades, of ,i bright green colour, are much cut into, being com posed of numerous small leaflets, divided into three different groups, each of which h again subdivided into three lesser groups. The edges of the V .'!, ■ tt • «:i 11 \ i<..:hed or serrated. The (lowers. Minall and numerous, yellowish or greenish in colour, are grouped into large roundish umbels. They blossom in .Inly, and are succeeded by pale yellow, oblong fruit*, with membraneous edges. flattoned on one side And O0nv"\ on the oth< . wh:. h bears three prominent ribs. 0m native Form, Angelica Sylvestris. is hairy in stalk ami stem to a dearer which makes a well marked difference. Its flowers differ, also, in being white Angelica i< unique amongst the Umbel!iferee with its pervading aromatic odour, a pleasant perfume, entirely differing from Kennel, Parsley, Anise, Caraway or Chervil. One old writer strangely complied it to musk, others to Juniper. Kven the roots are also fragrant. In several London Squares and Parks, Angelica has continued in grow, e|f -own. f..i -eveial generations as a garden e vape, often unrecognised by the multitude ; in some it is appropriated as a useful foliage plant, in others, it is treated rather as an intruding weed. Before the building of the London Law Courts and the clearing of much slum property between Holywell Street and Seven Dials, the foreign population of that district fully appreciated its value, and were always anxious to get it from Lincoln's Inn Fields, where it abounded and where it still grows. Until very recent years, it was exceedingly common on the slopes bordering, and Tower of London on the north and west sides; there also, the inhabitants held the plant in high icpute for culinary use and for its hygienic merit.