12 unnecessary, as they can so easily be grown here with a minimum of trouble and outlay, and there is no reason why everyone who has a garden should not propagate and dry these herbs wherever the soil suits them, quite apart from those who may yrow them on a com- mercial footing, to meet all home requirements and obviate the necessity of them being imported from foreign countrios. The British Guild of Herb Growers has pledged itself to foster the cultivation of culinary herbs amongst us to a leally adequate extent, so that we shall no longer have so largely to rely upon Germany and other countries for these homely aids to cookery, but produce ourselves all that are needed to meet the steady demand. The (itiild is always ready to purchase hundreds of tons of these herbs, and it is with the object of increasing the knowledge of the subject, so that members of the Guild and others may understand DOC only how to raise profitably crops of these useful herbs, but also how to prepare tinm foi .-.we. 01 lor home consumption, that this pamphlet has been complied. Hv co-operative action, these herbs might be much better grown in this country, and would probably find a large markot also in the Tinted States ami in tin- Colonies, as they could be grown purer and freer from admixture with oilier qieeies, than is the case with tho-c imported yearly by the shipload from south Kuropean countries, where, as in Spam, numerous varieties of Thyme occur in the wild condition. Harvesting" of the Herbs. For whatever purpose and in whatever condition they are to bo used, the aromatic flavours of foliage herbs are alwavs best in well developed leaves and shoots of plants in full growth, and the flavours are always strongest and characteristic just before the flowers break into blossom. These * aromatic properties are due to essential oils, which are dissipated by heat; they are also present to a greater extent in the morning than after the sun has reached its full height. To obtain the full fragrance of sweet herbs, therefore, especially for drying, they should be harvested just when coming into Mower and be gathered only on a fine day, in the morning, as soon as the dew is of!', before the"hot sun has taken any oil from the leaves. All leaves that are withered, stained or insect eaten, or otherwise not in perfect condition should be removed. All herbs with at all woody stems should then be tied loosely in bunches and hung to dry on stems in the open, if the day be warm, though in half shade, and preferably under cover, to avoid damping in case of showers. When dried in