5 Dill is probably the most important of the herbs whose seeds, rather than their leaves, are used in flavouring food other than confectionery, being employed greatly in the flavouring of cucumber pickle, largely consumed on the Continent, and to a more limited degree by foreign residents in this country. Garnish Herbs. Though Parsley is more widely used than any other herb as a garnish, several others, Fennel, Tansy, Savoury, Thyme, Marjoram, Basil and Balm make pretty garnishes, but are rarely used (except Fennel, for fish) though their pleasing effect may be heightened by adding hare and there a few herb flowers, such as Thyme or Savoury. Herbs as Decoration in the House and Garden. Sweet Herbs can also be used decoratively in the house and garden, as well as in the kitchen. A charming bouquet may be arranged of the delicate flowers of Marjoram, the pale pink blossoms of Thyme and the bright yellow umbels of Fennel, mixed with fragrant sprigs of lemon Balm and the bluish, finely-cut leaves of Rue—a bouquet dainty in appearance and in sweetness hard to excel. And not only is such a dainty bunch of herb flowers decorative, but its pleasant aromatic odour, from its antiseptic properties, is of value for the general health of the house, and especially for the sick room where the scent of these aromatic herbs has a refreshing and in- vigorating influence on the atmosphere, being not so cloying as the perfume of most flowers, and helping to keep drinks in a room sweet. The presence of these herbs will also greatly tend to keep a sickroom free of troublesome insects, who have a distaste for the scent of nearly all of them. Many of the herbs in a dried state, su<;h as Rosemary, Rue, and to a still greater extent Lavender, have, more- over, from olden times been employed as deodorisers, the odours given off by them when burnt being both healthy and pleasant. In the garden, a most decorative border can also be arranged with herbs—edging and rockery can be useful as well as pleasing to the eye. For instance, Sages backed by late flowering Orange Lilies go very well together, and being in flower at the same time make an effective grouping. Again, the calyces of Sage flowers remain on the plants well into late summer and give a lovely haze of reddish spikes; the smell of these seeding spikes is very distinct from the smell of the leaves, and much more like that of lemon-