40 wnen allowed t<> rise, it seldom reaches more than r few inches to at most a foot in height. It is hollow and either has no leaf at all on it, or has one leaf sheathing1 it below the middle. It supports a close globular head, or umbel, of purple Bowers; ihe numerous flowers are densely jxicked together ou geparate, ?6ty slender little flower-stalks (botauicaliy termed pedicals), shorter than the flowers themselves, which lengthen slightly as the fruit ripens, causing the heads to assume a conical iusteid of a round .shape. The petals of the liowei> art- nearly half an inch Ioti- ; when dry, their pale-purple colour, which has in parts a darker flush, changes io rose-colour. The anthers (the pollen-bearing part of me flower) are of a bliush- DUrpte-OOiour. Toe seed-vessel, or capsule, is a little larger than a hemp mm* I and is complete v concealed wuhin the petals, which are about twice its length The small see is which it contains are black when ri|»e and similar to Onion seeds. 1 he lii >\s eis are in blossom m June and J lily, and in the most cold and moist situations will mature their seeds, though rarely allowed to do so under cultivation Cultivation. The Chive will i;row in an) ordinary garden so.!. li can !>-• iai>ed by seed, but is usually propagated by dividing the clumps in spring or autumn. In dividing the clumps, leave about six little bnlh^ together in a tiny clump, which will spread to a lino clump in the course of i year, and may then be divided. Set the clumps from Din* ion toot ipiil Mob way. Por * quick return propagation by division of the bulh clumps is always to l>e preferred. The green from the clumps cat) be cut three or four times in the season. When reunited for use, each clump may be cut in turn, Inn \ i lose to the ground. The leaves will soon grow again and b" found more ten h-r each time of cutting. My carefully cropping, the "gr<i-s" can I* obtained quite iate in the season, until the e.o lv front* come, when it withers up and disapt>eais through the. winter, pushing up again in the first warm days of February. Kor early crops, a little " giasa" can Im« forced on the clumps by placing Otofches or a " light " over them." lievoitd weeding between the clumps, no further Mrs or attention is needed after division. Ueds should be re-planted at least ouce in three or four years. If it is desired to produce. s«'ed, grow two plantations, one for producing "gTSSt'* for use, and the other to be lefi to llowei and