74 memory and comfort the brain, but we hear that they never con- sidered their toilet complete without an infusion or spirit of Rose- mary. It had also a reputation with them as a drug plant. Rosemary Wine was of old always kept in the still-room, as it was considered, when taken in small quantities, to act as a quiet- ing cordial to a weak heart subject to palpitation. It is made by chopping up sprigs of green Rosemary, pouring on them white wine, which is strained oil after a few days and is then ready for use. By ntimnUting the brain and nervous system, it is a good remedy for headaches caused by a feeble circulation. RUE. Ruta OraveolenB (Linn.). Rue. a hardy evergreen, somewhat shrubby plant, is a native of .southern Europe. It is a member of the same botanical family as the orange, and unrelated to most of the other herbs with which we are dealing. It had a high imputation for seasoning and as a medicine in the time* of the <;r«*eke and Romans—in Pliny's time it was con- sidered to bfl OUrative ill no les.- than H4 maladies. ♦ The name lUUn is from the (Jreek mm, to set free, because this herb is so efficacious in various diseases. It was much used by the ancients ; Hippocrates serially commended it. and it constituted a chief ingredient of the famous antidote to poison used by Mithii- dates. In thin country Rue is one of our oldest garden plants, cultivated for its use medicinally, having, together with other herbs, been introduced by the Romans, hut it is not found in a wild state, except rarely on the hills of Lancashire and Yorkshire. At one time the holy water was sprinkled from brushes made of Kue at the ceremony usually preceding the Sunday celebration of High Mass. for which reason it is supposed it was named the Herb of Repentance ami the Herb of (Jrace. "There's rue for you and here's some for me; we may call it herb of grace o' Sundays," says Ophelia in Hamlet Rue has Ijeen regarded from the earliest times as most suc- cessful in warding off contagion and preventing the attacks of fleas and other noxious insects. It was the custom—lasting into the early part of last century—for Judges, sitting at Assizes, to have