52 slightly around it, half covering it; cutting may begin about 10da3rs later. The flower-heads should be removed as they appear. Florence Fennel should be cooked in vegetarian or meat stock, and served with either a rich butter sauce or cream dressing. It suggest* celery in flavour, but is sweeter, and very pleasantly fragrant. In ordinary times it can be bought of Italian green fgnoun in London. In Italy it is one of the commonest and most popular of vegetables. HC^EHOUND. Marrubium Yulgare (Linn.). White Horehound is a perennial herbaceous plant, found all over Burope and indigenous to Britain. Like many other plants of the Labiatx1 tribe, it flourishes in waste places and by roadsides, par- ticularly in the counties of Norfolk and Suffolk, whore it is also cultivated in the corners >f cottage gardens for making tea and candy for use in coughs and colds. It was formerly wi lely esteemed in cookery as well as medicine, but its flavour m too strong and lasting to be appreciated as a seasoning in modem cookery —the generic name is, indeed, I derived from the Hebrew 1// "a bitter juice," and it is con- sidered to have I.e.mi one of the hitter her >s which the Jews were ordered to take for the r'ca-i i Passover. Its medicinal properties were recognised in tin- day- < ► t 1 he Woman- Description. The plant is l.u hy, producing numerous annual, (piadriangular ami branching steins, a foot or more in height, on which the whitish flower* are borne in crowded, axillary, woolly whorls. The leaves are much wrinkled, opposite, petiolate, about .me inch long, covered with white, felted hairs, which give them a woolly a|.;"M; .i i . n .in which i he common na Horehound (11 oar- hound) is derived. They have a curious, musky smell, which is diminished by di ving, and lost on keeping. Horehound flowers from June to September, Cultivation. White Horehound is a hardy plant, easily grown, which flourishes bet in a dry, poor soil. It can be propa gated from seeds sown in spring, cuttings, or by dividing the roots, the most usual method. If raised from seed, the seedlings should be planted out in the spring, in rows, with I space of about, nine inches or more between each plant. No further culture will be