4 To the representatives of these three great families may be added:— Rue (Rata graveolens) belonging to the order, Kutacea, Borage (Bora go officinalis) Boraginacea\ Burnet (Poterium Sanguisorha) „ liosaceae, Sweet fiay (Lauras nohilis) ,, Lauracea). Mint, I'a'-di-y. Sage, Thyme and Marjoram may he considered the principal sweet herbs now in general use, but the many others ' numerated, which formerly were made use of to a greater degree than now, might well with advantage to our cuisine be more widely known, and deserve more attention than is generally given t hem. General Survey of the Uses of the various Herbs. Tim LiifHie.-: dem.iiid now a days is undoubtedly for Parsley, on account of u- i.eing used more extensively as a garnish than any olhci herb A- a flatouring agent, it has probably a wider applies tiou than any of the other herb*. It is chiefly employed in dress- ings with mild moats, such as chicken, turkey, veal, and with fish, also for soups, stews and sauces, especially these used with boiled moats, fncasecs ami fish. Sage, Iwing a strongly flavoured plant, is used chiefly with IQob fat meats as poi k, goose, duck and some kinds of game. It is Used to flavour sausage meat, and in some countries with certain kinds of cheese. In the I'nitod Suites it is more widely used than any other culinary herb. Thyme and Savoury aro used about equally, chiefly like Parsley, both, in addition (especially Thyme), being u«ed in ccilain kinds of sausage. Marjoram is similarly employed i hough to a letter degree, and next iti favour come Balm, Basil ami Fennel. All these milder herbs are often mixed, the blend resulting in a new compound flavour, the mixture being utilised in the same manner as the individual herbs. Tarragon and Spearmint m wed in a different manner to those just mi ntioood, Tarragon chiefly as a decoction, in the flavouring of fish sauce-, or in the preparation of vinegar ; and Mint, with vinegar, in the dressing with lamb, or as a flavouring to green peas or pea soup.