67 the condition to be trodden, which appears to fix the seed in its place, and after raking leaves a firm even surface. The seed should be but slightly covered, not more than A in. deep and thinly distributed ; if in drills, these should be 1 ft. apart. It is not necessary, however (though usual), to sow the seed where the plants are to be grown, as when large enough, the seed- lings can be pricked out into rows. When the seedlings are well out of the ground—about an inch high—adequate thinning is imperative, as the plants dislike being cramped, and about 8 ins. from plant to plant must be allowed ; a well-grown plant will cover nearly a square foot of ground. The rows should be liberally watered in dry weather; a sheltered position is preferred to a very exposed or open one, as the plants are liable to become burnt up in very hot and dry summers. The rows should be kept clean of weeds by hoeing, and frequent dressings of soot may be applied with advantage. If the growth becomes coarse in the summer, cut off all the outer leaves and water well. This will induce a new growth of fine leaves again, and may always be done when the plants have grown to a good size, as it encourages a stocky growth. When thus cut at the end of the summer, the plants will keep growing slowly, and the leaves made at this season will last all the winter in districts that are in any way favourable. Soon after the old or last year's plants begin to grow again in the spring, they run away to flower, but if the flower stems are promptly removed, and the plants top dressed and watered, they will remain productive for sometime longer. Renew the beds every two years, as the plant dies down at the end of the second season. When sowing Parsley to stand the winter, a plain-leaved variety will often be found superior to the curled or mossy sorts, which are, perhaps, handsomer, but the leaves retain both snow and rain, and when frost follows, the plants soon succumb. A plain- leaved Parsley is far hardier, and will survive even a severe winter and is equally good for cooking, though not so attractive for garnish- ing. Double the trouble is experienced in obtaining a supply of Parsley during the winter, when only the curled-leaved varieties are grown.