17 touched on, as these will be found given at length in the special pamphlets dealing with each herb that have already been issued. (Post free 7id. each pamphlet. See list published.) PLANT LIST. ANGELICA.—Archangelica Officinalis (Hoffm.) ; syn. Angelica Archangelica (Linn.). Angelica is among those medicinal plants which grow wild, yet are only of market value when cultivated. The large variety is grown abundantly near London in moist fields for the use of its candied stems by confectioners. It is largely cultivated for medicinal purposes in Thuringia, and the roots are also imported from Spain. It is believed to be a native of Syria, whence it has spread to many cool European climates, especially Lappland and the Alps, where it has become naturalised. There are about thirty varieties, but the above named is the only one officially employed. The virtues of the herb are quaintly phrased by old writers, and the name itself, as well as the folk-lore of all North European countries and nations, testify to the great antiquity of a belief in its merits as a protection against contagion, for purifying the blood, and for curing almost every con- ceivable malady. In Oourland, Livonia and the Low lake lands of Pomerania and East Prussia, wild growing Angelica abounds ; there, in early summer time it is the custom of some peasants to march into the towns carrying the Angelica flower stems to offer them for sale, chanting some ancient ditty in Lettish words, so antiquated as to be unintelligible to the singers themselves. The chanted words and the tune are learnt in childhood, and may be attributed to a survival of some pagan festival. Later, the plant became linked in the popular mind with some Archangelic patronage, and associated with the spring-time festival of the Annunciation. Description. Angelica is a member of the natural order Unibelliferse. It may be termed a perennial herbaceous plant. It is biennial only in the botanical sense of the term, that is to say, it is neither annual nor naturally perennial; the seedlings make but little advance towards maturity within 12 months, whilst old plants die off after seeding once, which event may be at a much more remote period than in the second year of growth. Only very