92 native name, though occasionally "Thyme" is qualified in some way, such as " Running Thyme," or " Mother-of-Thyme." The latter name was probably originally " Mother Thyme," from its use in uterine disorders, in the same way that " Motherwort" Leonuru* Cardinal) has received its popular name for similar use in the domestic medicine of the countryside. The affection of bees for Thyme is well known, and the fine flavour of the honey of Mount Hymettus, near Athens, was said to be due to the Wild Thyme with which it was covered (probably Thi/mu-K vulgar in), the honey from this spot being of such especial flavour and sweetness that in the minds and writings of the ancients, sweetness and Thyme was indissoluble united. " Thyme, for the time it lasteth, yielded most and best honie and therefor in old timo wa# accounted chief, says an old English writer. Large clumps of either Garden or Wild Thyme may with advantage be grown in the garden about 10 ft. away from the hives. Though apparently not in general use as a culinary herb among the ancients as it is now, it was employed by tho Romans to give it* peculiar aromatic flavour to cheese, a practice followed likewise, in modern days, not only with the leaves (see Sage pamphlet) but also with the flowers and seeds of other plants. The mi nintaineers in the Canton of (ilarm in Switzerland prepare a cheese, known a* St hnbzieger, which is readily distinguished by its peculiar marbled appearance and aromatic flavour : these are communicated by the pressed flowers or the bruised seeds of the Melilotut officinalis, Common Melilot, which has a sweet, hayliko scent. Description, fhpmt VtUffCtrit is a perennial with a woody, fibrous root. The stems are numerous and are round, hard, branched and usually from 4 to 8 ins. high, when of tho largest growth scarcely attaining a foot in height The leaves are small, only about £ in. long and ,'6 in. broad, narrow and elliptical, greenish grey in colour reflexed at the margins, and set in pairs upon very small footstalks. The flowers terminate the branches in whorls. The calyx is tubular, striated, closed at the mouth with small hairs and divided into two lips, the uppermost cut into three teeth and the lower into two. The corolla consists of a tube about the length of the calyx, spreading at the top into two lips of a pale purple colour, the upper lip erect or turned back and notched at the end, the under lip longer and divided into three segments. The seeds are roundish and very small, about 170,000 to the ounce, it has been calculated,