83 A species of Sage, Salvia pomifera, the Apple-bearing Sage, of a very peculiar growth is common on some of the Greek islands. It has a firm, fleshy protuberances of about £ in. thickness, swelling out from the branches of the plant and supposed to be produced in the same manner as oak apples, by the puncture of an insect of the cynips geuus. These excrescences are semi-transparent iike jelly. They are called Sage Apples, and under that name are to be met with in the markets as an article of ordinary sale. They are candied with sugar and made into a kind of sweetmeat and conserve which is regarded as a great delicacy by the Greeks and is said to possess healing and salutary qualities. It has an agreeable and astringent flavour. Thfs plant is considerably larger than the common Sage of our gardens, and its flavour and smell are much more powerful, being somewhat like a mixture of Lavender and Sage. It grows very abundantly in Candia, Syros and Crete, where it attains to the size of a small shrub. The leaves are collected annually, dried and used medicinally as an infusion. Another South European species, an annual, Salvia Horminum, the Red-topped Sage, has its whorls of flowers terminated by clusters of small purple or red leaves, being for this peculiarity often grown in gardens as an ornamental plant. The leaves and seed of this species, put into the vat while fermenting, greatly increase the inebriating quality of the liquor. An infusion of the leaves has been considered a good gargle for sore gums, and a powder of them to make a good snuff. Certain varieties of Sage seeds are mucilaginous and nutritive, and are used in Mexico by the Indians as a food, under the name of Chi a. SUMMER SAYORY.—Satureia Hortensis (Linn.). WINTER SAYORY.—S. Montana (Linn.). The genus Satureia (the old Latin name used by Pliny), of the order Labiatse, comprises about 14 species of highly aromatic, hardy herbs or under shrubs, all, except one species, being natives of the Mediterranean region. Several species have been introduced into England, but only two, the annual Summer or Garden Savory and the perennial, Winter Savory are generally grown. The annual is more usually