7 with a simple oil and vinegar, dressing, omitting sugar, mustard or other flavouring, as the leaves themselves are piquant enough. With this Salad, Sandwiches may be passed round, made with lettuce or nasturtium dressed with mayonnaise. The mayon- naise dressing may be made more piquant by the addition of chopped Chives, or Tarragon, or Thyme. Such Herb Sandwiches in different varieties will be found an appetising addition also to the picnic hamper : sweet fennel and the tender leaves of sage, marjoram and other herbs finely chopped, mixed with cream cheese, make a piquant layer between two thin slices of bread. The luncheon may be concluded with a cream cheese into which, with a silver knife, has been woiked any of these herbs (or any two of them that agree with it well), served with toasted biscuits ; or the biscuits may be toasted with ordinary cheese, over which sage and thyme are grated. Summer Drinks. Some of the sweet herbs may be used to give additional flavour to summer drinks : Spearmint (the ordinary garden "mint) adds a pleasing pungency to lemonade, and the blue flowers of Borage have long been employed in like manner, and are often also added to a mixture of honey and water, to grape juice, or to rasp- berry vinegar and other fruit drinks. Candied Roots. The aromatic roots of Lovage may be candied, and form a pleasant substitute for the preserved ginger imported from the East. CULTIVATION and PROPAGATION of CULINARY HERBS. It is a popular error to say "ordinary kitchen herbs will grow anywhere," for to produce medicinal plants, among which those also used for culinary purposes must be included, it is necessary to garden thoughtfully, i.e. to know and practice, not only all the essentials of good gardening, but in addition, science is required, to get the highest medicinal qualities in the plant, for a plant may be well grown and "look nice " and yet be grown under such conditions that the chemical constituents needed may not be present in sufficient degree. To produce herbs successfully needs a higher form of gardening than the ordinarily accepted good work, for special