38 and is used as a mild nervine for children, one of its chief uses being in the treatment of children's ailments. The flowering- tops are the part utilised in medicine, and are harvested when the plant is in full bloom in August, and dried. The most important use of the plant, however, is as a bee forage, for which purpose waste places are often planted with it. CHERYIL. Scandix Cerefolium (Linn.). Chervil, a member of the order Umbelliferae, is a native of southern Kurope and the Levant, but is commonly grown in English kitchen gardens. Description. It lias steins about IS ins. tall, bearing a few biiglit ^rceti leaves, <■ :nj. vd of oval, much cut-into leaflets The small white flowers, borne in uinU'ls, are followed by long, pointed, black fruits, with a conspicuous furrow from end to end. Cultivation. The culture is a very simple matter The see !.-. which retain their germinating |>ower about three years, may Ik> sown in any ordinary garden soil in a sunny part of the garden, nearly all the year round The leaves are ready to gather in six to eight weeks from the time of sowing. A winter supply may be obtained by sowing the Heed in shallow lioxes in a frame or cool greenhouse Sow where the plants ate to grow, as a rule, and do not transplant, merely thinning out, when snlliciintly advanced, to 9 ins ajaif. (father the l«-.i\. - when 3 or 4 ins. high, and cut off close t<» the root, when they will shoot up again. Small and frequent sowings are made at any time between the end of February and October, but a shadier portion must, be chosen in hot weather, and watering is necessary during the summer. Uses. The tender leaves, which art highly aromatic, are ii-cd both in this coiintiy and in Fiance for leMOoiOf, and in mixed la, also in soups. Chervil is rarely used alone, but is the chief ingredient in what Um Fien. h call fines herbes, the mixture which enters into many culinary pre|»aiations. The best variety is the Curled, which, having the same flavour, is a prettier garnish than the ordinary Chervil, and is used in this manner like J'arsley, bur fades more quickly.