63 grown both upon and under the benches in greenhouses, and the demand for the young tender stems and leaves during the winter is sufficient to make the plants pay well. Mint Disease. Unfortunately, Mint is susceptible to a disease which in some gardens has completely destroyed it. This disease, which from its characteristic symptoms is known as Rust, is incurable. The fungus which causes it develops inside the plant, and therefore cannot be reached by any purgicide, and as it is perennial, living in the underground stems when the shoots are dead, it cannot be got rid of by cutting off the latter. All that can be done is to prevent the spread of the disease by digging up all plants that show any sign of rust. The same ground should not be used again for Mint for several years. Healthy stock should be obtained and planted in uninfected soil some distance away. On account of this liability of Mint to rust, it is advisable not to have it all in one bed. There are several forms of Garden Mint, the true variety being of bolt, upright growth, with fairly large and broad leaves, pointed and sharply serrated at the edges, and of a rich, bright green colour. Another variety is much smaller and less erect in growth, with darker leaves, but it possesses the same odour and flavour; and another has comparatively large, broad or rounded leaves, clothed with soft hairs, but this, though distinct from what is known as "horse mint." is inferior to the true "spear" variety, A form with its leaves slightly crisped is common in gardens under the name of Mentha Crispa. Mint has been estimated to yield from 4 to 5 tons per acre, from which 15 to 20 cwt. of dry should be obtained. Average yields per acre are, however, taken when crops are at maturity, and an estimate of the first cutting crop is hard to form, and iB likely to be less profitable than succeeding years on account of initial expenses. Uses. Mint is chiefly used for culinary purposes, and to a lesser degree in medicine when something not so strong as Peppermint is needed, the oil distilled from the plant, Oil of Spear- mint, being used and being better adapted than Peppermint in children's maladies. It is added to many compounds on account of its carminative properties and pleasant taste.' When eaten with lamb in the form of ^Mint Sauce, it greatly aids the digestion, as it makes the crude, albuminous fibres of the