58 variety with white flowers and light green stalks, and another with variegated leaves used for ornamental purposes. Sweet or Knotted Marjoram. O. Marjorana, is much more erect and more bush like, has smaller, narrower leaves, whiter flowers, green bracts, and larger seeds. It begins to flower in the end of June or early July, and obtains its name of " Knotted " Marjoram from the flowers being collected into round, close heads like knots. Wild Marjoram, O. Vulgare, a peiennial herb with creep- ing roots, send* up woody stems about a foot high, branched above, and frequently purple in colour : it grows freely in England, being particularly abundant in calcareous soils, as in the South Eastern counties. The leaven are broader, and the flower spikes looser and fuller than the cultivated varieties. In all the species the whole plant has a strong, peculiar, fragrant, balsamic odour, and a warm, bitterish aromatic taste, both of which properties are preserved when the herb is dry. Cultivation. All the Marjorams do best in a warm situation, and dry light soil. I'ol Marjoram when mice established may readily be propa .;,4!e<i l.v cutting* taken in early summer, inserted under a hand- glass, sud later planted out with a space ol one foot between the rows ami nearly ss much from plant to plant, as it likes plenty of room It may also be increased by division of roots in April, or by offsets, clipping pieces off the plants with roots to them and planting with trowel or dibber, taking care to water well. In May, they grow quickly after the operation. It is also very easy to grow from seed. Sow "moderately thin, in dry, mild ITMtMMr in March, in ,w .irill- about ; m deep and *<»i '.» ins. apart, covered in evenly with the soil. Transplant afterwards, when a few inches tall, to about a foot apart each way. The seeds are very slow in germinating. From the very start, the plants must be kept free from weeds and the soil loose and open. The plants will last for years. Sweet or Knotted Marjoram, as already stated, is not really an annual, but is usually treated as such, as the plants will not stand the winter outside, so must be sown every year. Seeds may be sown for an early supply in March on a gentle hot-bed and again, in a warm position, in light soil, in the open ground during April. Plants do well if sown in April, though long in germinating. The