56 the weather becomes settled, they are set a foot or 15 ins. apart in rather poor soil, preferably light and sandy, with sunny exposure. The seed may also be sown in the open, and the seedlings trans- planted when about 2 ins. high. When once established, the plants will increase from year to year, if allowed to seed themselves; the seeds ripen in August and September, and if permitted to scatter, will furnish a supply of young plants in the spring. Uses. The Marigold was well known to the old Herbalists as a garden flower, and for use in cookery and medicine. It has been cultivated time oat of mind in the kitchen garden for the flowers, which hi p dried in order to be boiled in broth, an old notion being that they arc comforters of the heart and spirits. (lerardc wr ites : " ('ons<»rv« made of the flowers and sugar, taken in the morning fasting, eureth the trembling of the harte, and is also given in the time of plague or pestilence. The yellow leaves ,,t i iie tl.. w«-1 - .lie due.! and kept throughout Dutehland against winter to put into broths, physieall potions and for divers other purjMiHes, in such quantity that in some Grocers or Spicescllers are to be found laurels filled with them and retailed by the ponny or less, insomuch that no broths arc well made without dried Marigold." ()nlv the common, deep oi ange flowered \ ariety is of medicinal value. The rav florets are used and need quick di ving in the shade, in a good current of warm air, spread out on sheets of paper, loosely, without touching each other, or they will become discoloured. Calendula is much used by homeopathists. A lotion is made from the flowers that is useful for sprains and wounds, and an infusion of the flowers is employed in fevers and measles, as it great I v promotes perspiration and throws out any erupt ion. An ointment is made of the green plant and the blossoms mixed with butter and charcoal. Tincture of Calendula is used for bruises to promote absorption of effused blood. The leaves, eaten as a salad, have been considered useful in the scrofula of children, and the acrid qualities of the plant have caused it to be recommended as an extirpator of wails. A yellow dye has also been extracted from the flower by boiling.