75 sprigs of Rue placed on the bench of the dock, as defensive against the pestilential infection brought into court from gaol by the prisoner. The bouquet still presented in some districts to Judges at the Assizes was originally a bunch of aromatic herbs, given to him for the like purpose of warding off the gaol-fever, and Rue formed a portion of it. Recent research has shown that the essential oil contained in Rue, as in other aromatic herbs like Elecampane, Rosemary and Cinnamon, serves by its germicidal principles to extinguish bacterial life. Description. The stem is woody at the lower part and much branched, 18 ins. to 2 ft. high, bearing small, oblong, stalked leaves, bluish-green and shining, two or three times divided, the terminal leaflet broader and notched at the end. The rather large greenish-yellow flowers are in terminal pannicles, and are in bloom from June to September. The whole plant has a very powerful, disagreeable odour, and an exceedingly bitter, acid and nauseous taste. Cultivation. The plant grows almost anywhere, but thrives best in a partially sheltered and dry situation. Propagation may beeffected : (1) by seeds, sown outside, broadcast, in spring, raked in and the beds kept free from weeds, the seedlings, when about 2 ins. high, being transplanted into fresh beds, allowing about 18 ins. each way, as the plants become busy; (2) by cuttings, taken in spring and inserted for a time, until well rooted, in a shady border; (3) by rooted slips, also taken in spring. Every slip or cutting of the young wood will readily grow, and this is the most expeditious way of raising a stock. Rue will live much longer and is less liable to be injured by frost in winter when grown in a poor, dry, rubbishy soil than in good ground. As the flowers are attractive, Rue is often planted in shrub- beries for ornamental purposes. When so grown it is well to cut the stems close to the ground every two or three years. Uses. Rue is no longer used as a seasoning, but it is still used to a limited extent by some who like bitter flavours, not only in culinary preparations but in beverages, its young leaves being occasionally put into claret cup. Italians use the leaves as a salad.*