26 For home use and market, the foliage should be dried as directed, but the more succuleut stems not in buuches over strings but laid on trays or sieves, thinly spread. The temperature should be rather low. Uses. The foliage is widely used for flavouring soups, stews, sauces and dressings, and when fresh, to a small extent, with salads. Balm was formerly esteemed of great use in all complaints supposed to proceed from a disordered state of the nervous system, a medicinal power that is no longer ascribed to it. The London I>i.H|x-iuary (16%) said: "An essence of Balm, given in Canary wine, every morning will renew youth, strengthen the brain, relieve languishing nature and prevent baldness." John Kvelyn wrote: "Balm is sovereign for the brain, strengthening the memory and powerfully chasing away melancholy." Balm steeped in wine we are told again, "comforts the heart and driveth away melancholy and sadness." All this effect may not have been due to the Balm alone, but Balm is still used as an ingredient in cups. Formerly a spim of Balm, combined with lemon-peel, nutmeg1 and angelica root, enjoyed a gieat restorative reputation under the name of Carmelite water, being deemed highly useful against nervous headache and neuralgic affections. Gerarde also tell us: "The juice of Balm giueth together greene wounds" and gives the opinion of Pliny and Uioseorides that "Balm, being applied, doth close up wounds with- out any peril of inflammation." It ib now understood as a scientific fact that the balsamic oils of aromatic plant.** made excellent surgical dressings; they give off ozone, and thus exercise anti-putrescent effects, the resinous parts of these bftlsau.ic oils, as they dry upon the sore or wound, seal it up and effectually exclude all noxious air. Thus the essential oils of Balm. Pepjtermint, lavender and similar herbs, us well as Pine Oil, the resin Of Turjietitine and Benzoin (Friar's Balsam ) serve admirably for ready application on lint or soft rags to cuts and superficial sores. Balm is considered by herbalists to be very useful, either alone, or in combination with other herlw, and excellent in colds attended v. ith fever, as it induces a mild perspiration and makes a pleasant and cooling tea for feverish patients in cases of catarrh and influenza. To make Balm Tea, pour one pint of boiling water on one ounce of herb, infuse 1 j minutes, allow to cool, then strain, and drink freely.