96 Several other plants can be utilised as sources of Thymol, although none yield such high percentages as Ajowan seed. The following new sources of Thymol were suggested when the scarcity of the valuable antiseptic made itself so severely felt on curtailment of Continental supplies: Garden Thyme and Wild Thyme ( Thymus vulgaris and serpyllum), American Horse Mint (Monarda punctata), Cunila mariana, Motla jiipanica, Origanum fu'rtum, Ocimim riride and Sntweja thymbrn. The Oil of Thyme obtained by distilling the fresh-flowering herb of Thymus rulgari* in already an article of commerce and con- tains varying amounts of Thymol, but the actual amount present is not very high, varying from 20 to 25 per cent., only in very rare cases amounting to more, and the methods of separation in order to obtain a pure compound are inure complicated than in the manufac- ture from Ajowan oil. With Thymol at itn high price during the war, it might have paid to prepare it from Thyme Oil, but hardly under normal condition- Karly in I91'>, an English chemist took up the preparation of Tnymol on a commercial scale from Thyme Oil and put the product on the market ; though the crystals did not melt ouitc :i- ,-isilie re.pnt ment > of the lb itisli 'lMiarmaeopo'ia it could be used for practically all the purposes for which Thymol is employed. WILD THYME. The Wild Thyme Tliymu* Snpi/lhnn (Linn), is indigenous to the ixreater part of the dry land of Kurope, though a great doal less abundant than the Common Thyme so widely cultivrted. It is found up to a certain height on the Alps, on high plateaux, and in valleys, along ditches and loads, on rocks, in barren and dry soil, and also in damp clay soil destitute of chalk. It is seen in old stoney, abandoned fields, dried up lawns and on clearings. In this country it is found chiefly on heaths and in mountainous situations, and is also often cultivated as a border iti gardens or on rockeries and sunny banks. It waa a great favourite of Francis Bacon, who in giving us his plan for the perfect garden, directs that alleys should be planted with fragrant flowers: " burnet, wild thyme and watcrmints, which perfume the air most delightfully, being trodden upon and crushed," so that you may '' have pleasure when you walk or tread." The herb wherever it grows wild denotes a pure atmosphere and was thought to enliven the spirits by the fragrance which it