19 Cultivation. Cultivate in ordinary deep moist loam, in a shaded position, as the plant thrives best in a damp soil and loves to grow near running water. Although its natural habitat is in damp soil and in open quarters, yet it can withstand adverse environment wonderfully well and even endure severe winter frost without harm. Seedlings will even successfully develop and flower under trees whose shelter creates an area of summer dryness in the surface soil, but, of course, though such conditions may be allowable when Angelica is grown merely as an ornamental plant, it must be given the best treatment as regards suitable soil when grown for its use commercially. Inseets and garden pests do not attack the plant with much avidity; its worst enemy is a small two-winged fly, of which the maggots are leaf-miners, resembling those of the Celery plant and of the Spinach leaf. Propagation should not be attempted otherwise than by the sowing of ripe, fresh seed, though division of old roots is some- times recommended, and also propagation by off-shoots, which are thrown out by a two-year plant when cut down in June for the sake of the stems, and which transplanted to 2 feet or more apart will provide a quick method of paopagatfon, considered inferior however, to that of raising by seed. Since the germinating capacity of the seeds rapidly deteriorates, they should be sown as soon as ripe in August or early September. If kept until March, especially if stored in paper packets, their vitality is likely to be seriously impaired. In the autum, the seeds may be sown where the plants are to remain, or preferably in a nursery bed, which as a rule will not need protection during the winter. A very slight covering of earth is best. Young seedlings, but not the old plants, are amenable to transplantation. The seedlings should be transplanted when still small, for their first summer's growth to a distance of about 18 ins. apart. In the autumn they can be removed to permanent quarters, the plants being then set 3 ft. apart. If well grown, the leaves may be cut for use the summer after transplanting. Ordinarily it is in the third or fourth year that the plant develops its tall flowering stem, of which the gathering for culinary or confectionery use prolongs the life-time of the plant for many seasons. Unless it is desired to collect seed, the tops should be cut at or before flowering time. After producing seed the plants generally die, but by cutting down the tops when the flowerheads