8 scientific knowledge must be added to the everyday gardeners practical rules. In choosing the Situation of the Herb Garden, it is in general advisable to choose a south aspect and a smooth, gentle slope, but whatever the nature of the surface available and the aspect, the herbs should always be given the most sunny spots in the garden, free from the shade of trees, fences or buildings, as the development of the volatile oils on which the value of the herb depends is greater when the plants are grown in full sunshine. As to Soil, a light, sandy loam, with a porous subsoil en- suring good drainage, will be the most favourable, as it is warmed quickly and is easily worked. A Clay Loam is less desirable as it cannot be woi keu so early in the season or after a spell of rain, and a very sandy soil is loo }>orous and apt to scorch the plants. Good cultivation will, however, do muoh to remedy original defects in the soil. For obtaining the best results in aromatic herbs a very rich soil is not required, at in xuch soils the growth is apt to be too rank, the 'plantity of volatile oil being small in proportion to the leafage produced. Preparation of the Soil should commence in the first duvs of spring, well-decayed manure being spread at the rate of a bushel or more to the square yard, and dug in with the garden fork as soon as the soil ia dry enough to crumble readily, the ground being turned over thoroughly until a fine tilth is obtained. On heavy land, the toil »hould be dug over in the autumn and left rough for the frost to act on the lumps, which will crumble when raked or hammed in the spring. A fine tilth having been obtained, the seeds may be sown or planU transplanted into the bed, and for the rest of the season the surf a. <• must M kept Khwc and upon by stirring every week or ten • lays and after evtrv shower, not only to keep weeds in check, but to keep the surface "layer in a state of powder, which acts as a mulch preventing loss of moisture from the lower layers around the routs. Propagation. Most herbs can readily be propagated by means of seeds. Some, however, such as Tarragon, which does not pioducc seed in this country, and several other perennial kinds, are propagated by division, layers or cutting's. As the