71 use, it may be put into the oven on muslin trays, when cooking is finished, this being repeated several times till thoroughly dry and crisp, when the leaves should be rubbed in the hands or through a coarse wire sieve and the powder then stored in tins, so that neither air nor light can reach it, or the good colour will not be preserved. In the trade, there is a special method of drying which preserves the colour. Further particulars on the process of colour preservation can be obtained on application from the Author. The oil is extracted from the " seeds " or rather fruits, when fresh, in which condition, not dried, they are supplied to the manufacturing druggists. ROSEMARY Rosmarinus Officinalis (Linn.). Rosemary, the well-known evergreen shrub, grown in small quantities in almost every garden, was introduced into England before the Norman Conquest. It came originally from the south of Europe, where it grows abundantly on the dry, rocky hills of the Mediterranean region. The shiub takes its name from ros, dew and martnus, belong- ing to the sea, in allusion to the grey, glistening appearance of the plant and its natural locality near the sea, with somewhat of its odour. The ancients are well aquainted with this shrub, which has always been supposed to strengthen the memory. On this account it became the emblem of fidelity in lovers. It holds quite a special position among the herbs from the symbolism attached to it, apart from any of its household or medicinal uses. Not only was it in olden days employed at weddings, but also at funerals, for decking churches and banqueting halls at festivals, as incense in religious ceremonies, and in spells against magic—in fact, it was always regarded with a species of affection perhaps given to no other plant. " There's Rosemary for you, that's for remembrance ! Pray you, love, remember," says Ophelia in Hamlet. At weddings, it was entwined in the wreath worn by the bride, being first dipped into scented water. Anne of Cleves, we are told, wore such a wreath at her wedding. A Rosemary branch, richly gilded and tied with silken ribands of all colours, was also