57 Mangold flowers have been used as a substitute for Saffron for colouring butter and cheese, and are also employed for colouring Pot Pourri. It has been asserted that a Marigold flower, rubbed on the affected part is an admirable remedy for the pain and swelling caused by the sting of a wasp or bee. MARJORAM.—Origanum Yulgare, Onites, Marjorana. and Heracleoticum. There are two species of Marjoram generally cultivated for culinary use, Por or Perennial Marjoram (Origanum Onites) of southern Europe, and Sweet or Knotted Marjoram (Origanum Marjorana) native to North Africa, which is also perennial in its native habitat, but because of its liability to be killed by frost when grown in our cooler climate, is treated as an annual and grown only from seed. Both are largely used for seasonings, and our British Marjoram (Origanum vulgare) is also aromatic and has likewise been used for culinary purposes, though it is more thoroughly used for medicinal purposes—in herbal medicine—for which the cultivated species are rarely employed in this country. A third species is sometimes cultivated for culinary use, Winter Marjoram (Origanum Heracleoticum) a native of Greece, but hardy enough to thrive in England in a dry soil. The generic name, Origanum, is derived from two Greek words, meaning delight of the mountain, some of the species being found commonly upon mountain sides. The perennial species, O. Onites, is the one longest associated with civilisation, mentioned by Pliny, and the great Herbalists of the Middle Ages and the 16th century. The Sweet Marjoram, O. Marjorana, is considered to be the species regarded in India as sacred to Vishnu and Siva. Description. Pot Marjoram, O. Onites, is a hardy perennial, growing nearly 2 ft. high, in branched clumps, the stems woody and often purplish, bearing numerous short-stalked, oval leaves about an inch long, nearly entire, and hairy beneath, and terminal clusters of short spikes of little pale-lilac or purplish blos- soms with reddish bracts, blooming from the end of June through August. The oval, brown seeds are very minute. There is&a