97 diffuses into the air around. The Romans gave Thyme as a sovereign remedy to melancholy persons. "Wild Tlryme is a perennial, more thickset that the Garden Thyme, though subject to many varieties, according to the surround- ings in which it grows. In its most natural state, when found on dry exposed downs, it is small and procumbent, often forming dense cushions ; when growing among furze or other plants which afford it shelter, it runs up a slender stalk to a foot or more in height, which gives it a totally different appearance. The specific name serpyllum is derived from a Greek word meaning to creep, and has been given it from its usually procumbent and trailing habit. The root is woody and fibrous, the stems numerous, hard, branched, procumbent, rising from 4 ins. to 1ft. high, ordinarily reddish-brown in colour. The bright green oval leaves Jin. broad, tapering below into very short footstalks, are smooth and beset with numerous small glands. They are fringed with hairs towards the base and have the veins prominent on the under surfaces. Their margins are entire and not recurved as in Garden Thyme. As with all other members of the important order Labiatce to which the Thymes belong, the leaves are set in pairs on the stem. The plant flowers from the end of May or early June to the beginning of autumn, the flowers, which are very similar to those of the Garden Thyme, being purplish and in whorls at the top of the stems. Bees, as already mentioned, are especially fond of the Thyme blossoms, from which they extract much honey, Spenser speaks of the " bees-alluring time," and everyone is familiar with Shakespeare's description of the "bank where the wild thyme blows " the abode of the queen of the Fairies. It was looked upon as one of the fairies' flowers, tufts of Thyme forming one of their favourite plaj7,- grounds. Thyme has somewhat strangely been associated with death ; not only is it one of the fragrant flowers favoured in some parts for planting on graves (in Wales, particularly, none but sweet-scented plants being tolerated for this purpose), but the Order of Oddfellows to this day still carry sprigs of Thyme at funerals and throw them into the grave of their dead brother. An old tradition says that Thyme was one of the herbs that formed the fragrant bed" of the Virgin Mary. Cultivation. Wild Thyme will grow on any soil, but