94 Thyme roots greatly in the ground and soon extracts the goodness of the soil, hence whatever is sown or planted upon a spot of ground whereon Thyme grew in the preceding year, will seldom thrive unless the ground be first trenched deeper than the Thyme was rooted, and well manured. The whole herl> is U3ed, fresh and dried. Though cultivated in gardens for culinary use. Common Thyme is not grown in England on a large scale, most of the dried Thyme on the market having been imported from the Continent, mainly from Germany. Its essential oil is distilled in the south of Franco, the flower- ing herb being used for ihe production of Oil of Thyme. In the neighbourhood of Nimes, the entire plant is used, and the distillation carried on at two periods of the year, in May and .lune, when the plant is first in flower, and again later in the autumn. In this eountiv, onlv a comparatively small amount of the essential oil is distilled, but it i> considered to he of a high quality. The fresh herb for distilling should be collected on a dry day, when ju-t coming into flower; the lower portions of the stem, together with any yellow or brown leaves, should bo rejected and the herbs conveyed to the distillery a* soon as possible If necessary to travel by train, they ma> he packed in open crates hanann crates will do for the purpose—or light boxes, if possible in quantities sufficient to fill a cattle truck, arranging for them to travel at night, for the sake of coolness (in which caso, they should be cut in the late afternoon) and labelling hMedicinal Hants, for immediate delivery. Urgent." For <hym<i (mainly for culinary purposes), tie up by the stalk onds in uniform sized buiiches, about a dozen in a bunch, and about 6 ins. long. Uses. In this country Thyme is principally in request for culinarv requirements, for its use, either fresh or dried, or in decoc- tion, in flavouring stuffings, sauces, pickles, stews, soups, jugged hare, etc. The Spaniards infuse it in the pickle with which they preserve their olives. The dried flowers have been often used in the same way as lavender, to preserve linen from insects. Thyme enters into the formula for Herb Tobacco and em- ployed in this form is good for digestion, headacho and drowsiness.