45 ployed in medicine except to disguise the taste of disagreeable drugs, though veterinary surgeons employ it as a drug for cattle and horses. The inhabitants of Peru are so fond of the taste and smell of this herb that it enters into almost all their dishes in such quantities as to render the odour insupportable, and the taste is objectionable to any but a native. Both in Peru and in Egypt, the leaves are put into soup. CUMIN.—Cuminum cyminum (Linn.). Cumin, which besides being used medicinally, was in the Middle Ages one of the commonest spices of European growth, is a small annual, herbaceous plant, indigenous to Upper Egypt, but from early times cultivated in Arabia, India, China, and in the countries bordering on the Mediterranean. Cumin is mentioned in Isaiah xxviii., 25 and 27, and Matthew xxiii., 23, and in the works of Hippocrates and Dioscorides. From Pliny we learn that the ancients took the ground seed medicinally with bread, water or wine, and that it was accounted the best of condiments. In the 13th and 14th centuries, when it was much in use as a culinary spice, its average price in England per lb. was 2d., equiva- lent to 1/4 at the present day. Description. Its stem is slender and branched, rarely exceeding one foot in height and somewhat angular. The leaves are divided into long, narrow segments like Fennel, but much smaller and are of a deep green colour, generally turned back at the ends. The upper leaves are nearly stalkless, but the lower ones have longer loaf-stalks. The flowers are small, rose-coloured or white, in stalked umbels with only 4-6 rays, each of which are only about one- third inch long, and bloom in June and July, being succeeded by fruit—the so-called seeds—which constitute the Cumin of pharmacy. They are oblong in shape, thicker in the middle, compressed laterally about one-fifth inch long, resembling Caraway seeds, but lighter in coloiu- and bristly instead of smooth and almost straight, instead of being curved. They have nine fine ridges, overlapping as many oil channels, or vittce. The odour and taste are somewhat like caraway, but less agreeable.