90 they are gathered in midsummer. A second "cutting may be made in late September or early October. Uses. John Evelyn, in his treatise on salads, says of Tarragon : " Tis highly cordial and friend to the head, heart and liver.,f In Continental cookery its use is advised to temper the cool- ness of other herbs in salads. The loaves, which have a fragrant smell in addition to their aromatic taste, are also used, especially by the French, with stews, steaks and other meat preparations. They are often employed as an ingredient in pickles. Tarragon forms also an excellent flavouring for fish saucer Perhaps the most popular way it is employed is as a decoction in vinegar. Vinegars u»od in former times frequently t«• be armiiatist'd by steeping in them Koss marv, (iillirlowei - and Barberries, but Tarragon is the only herb now used in this manner. To make Tarragon vinegar, fill a wide-mouthod bottle with the freshly gathered leaven, picked just before the herb flowers, on a drv day. Pick the leaves off the stalks and dry a little before the fire. Then place in ajar, cover with the best vinegar, allow to stand some hours, then strain through a flannel jelly bag and cork down in the bottles The br-t white vinegar should be used. In France the famous Vinegar of Maille is made in this way. Tarragon vinegar is the only correct flavouring for Sauce Tan tare, but must never be put into soups, as the tasto is too strong and pungent. French cooks usually mix their mustard with Tarragon vinegar. The Russian Tarragon is eaten in 1'ersia to excite an appetite at meals. Fresh Tarragon possesses an essential volatile oil, chemically identical with that of Anise, which becomos lost in the dried herb. One pound of the oil is obtained by distilling 300 to 500 lbs. of the green j>arth of the herb. It is used for perfuming toilet articles. The root of Tarragon, held between the teeth, was said in the days of our forefathers to cure toothache, but one hears nothing of this use of it nowadays.