11 transplanted when very small, to a second nursery bed, in order to make them strong and sturdy before being removed to their final quarters. Transplanting should only take place when the ground is moist, as it is immediately after being' dug. An ideal time for transplanting is just before a fall of rain, though immediately after one is almost as good. It is better to transplant in cloudy weather and towards evening, than in sunny weather and in the morning. The plants should always be taken up with as little loss of roots as possible, be kept exposed to the air as short a time as possible, and when placed again in the ground should have the soil packed in very firmly about their roots. After setting, the surface soil should be loosened, to act as a mulch and prevent ex- cessive loss of moisture from the lower layers round the roots. Harvesting and Preparation for Use. We may divide Herbs into three groups : those whose Leaves yield the aromatic flavour, such as Parsley, Mint, Sage, Thyme, etc.; those whose Seed is used, such as Dill, Anise, Caraway and Fennel, and those whose Roots or Stems are employed, such as Lovage and Angelica. Foliage herbs are employed either green or dried, as a decoction or infusion. When used green, if newly gathered, the herbs yield their aromatic properties to the fullest extent, and add a finer and more delicate flavour to sauces and stews than when used in a dry condi- tion. Again, in salads, they should always be used green, as specks of dried herbs would spoil the look of a salad, and both these and a decoction of the herbs would impart a greatly inferior flavour to the salad as compared with the crisp, fresh leaves. As most herbs, however, cannot be obtained throughout the year, they are dried or infused for use when the green leaves will no longer grow in the open. Every household in the kingdom keeps for winter use a bottle or tin of powdered sweet herbs for flavouring soups, entrees and vegetables, and it seems almost incredible that before'the war wc annually imported many thousand pounds worth of dried and powdered ordinary culinary herbs, such as Sage, Thyme, Mint, Parsley, etc., to meet this demand. This should have been quite