223 BONES. teum encloses merely a yellow or brownish mass of lardy con- sistence. This affection is attended with excessive and almost incessant pain—is almost confined to females—occurs chiefly at the middle period of life—and though often veiy slow in its progress, advances until the patient dies. There is no effectual remedy for this malady, and its treat- ment consists in the use of means proper for palliating the patient's sufferings, of which the different preparations of opium are the best, and supporting the general health, for which pur- pose sea air seems to have most influence. Fragility or unusual facility for being broken, naturally leads to the idea of a redundance in the earthy constituent of bones ; and a certain degree of it depending on this cause is observed in old people; but the condition which is generally understood to be denoted by this title, and in which the proneness to breaking is so great that fracture is caused by the slightest external vio- lence, or even by the action of the muscles in effecting the ordi- nary movements of the limbs, is a state of preternatural softness instead of increased density. Eickets, malacosteon, and the medullary-sarcomatous degeneration, all occasionally render the bones more liable to be broken ; and fracture being sometimes the first obvious effect of the diseased action, is not only thought to be the cause that induced it, but also chosen as the character- istic feature for its designation. A remarkable degree of fragility has been observed in the advanced stage of carcinomatous disease. Diseases of the Spine. ■ There are two morbid states of the spinal column wliich occur so frequently, and are attended with such important effects on the system, that they require to be considered by themselves. These are inflammation, and some of its consequences, with or without curvature, and curvature without inflammation. AVhen inflammation occurs in the vertebrae, it is seated in their bodies and intermediate cartUages, and is indicated first by a dull gnawing pain at the part, which is aggravated by pressure and motion; then a slight degree of swelling generally appears