142 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEEY. merely different degi-ees of the same injury, since the process of recovery is apt to be considerably different. It is always desirable to promote absorption, and for this purpose the same means as those employed to discuss superficial ecchymosis are proper, especially lotions and pressure. Some- times the serum continues little or not at all diminished, ia which case blisters, succeeded by pressure, ought to be used, and if these means fail, the fluid may be drawn off by a trocar. The contents of these effusions are also apt to shift from one part of the body to another, according to the tendency of their weight. When the effusion is large, or the parts about it have been much injured, or the patient is of an irritable habit, the parietes of the cavity are apt to inflame and convert it into an abscess. Any tendency to this ought to be allayed or prevented by cold applications; but, so soon as there is reason to believe that matter has actually been formed, free vent should be afforded to it and the remaining blood by an incision ; after which pressure and some stimulating wash will promote contraction and closure of the cavity. The appearance of ecchymosis so regularly attends the inflic- tion of bruises, that much importance is frequently attached to its presence or absence in medico-legal investigations. The dis- coloration of the skin caused by it must be distinguished from the livor, which generally appears on the dependent parts of the body after life becomes extinct. This may be readily done by making an incision through the part in question, as the blood in ecchymosis will be found coagulated in the seat of its effusion, while in livor there is merely congestion of the cutis. The time required for ecchymosis shewing itself is also an important point. The more superficial the effusion is, the more quickly will the dis- coloration appear—and according to the difference in this respect, three or four hours, or as many days, will be necessary. It should be recollected that the effusion and discoloration are two distinct things ; that the former happens immediately after the injury, and may be certainly discovered by dissection ; but that