56 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. what is called a Sloughing Ulcer. Wlien mercury was given profusely aud indiscriminately, in the treatment of venereal affections, it frequently indiiced such irritability as to make the sore assume phagedenic or sloughing characters. The patients in crowded ill-ventilated hospitals sometimes suffer from slough- ing of their sores, attended with great destruction of the parts, or even fatal effects on the system. This Hospital Gangrene, as it is named, no doubt depends on the unwholesome atmosphere exciting preternatural irritability, and the treatment, therefore, essentially requires removal from the sphere of this deleterious infliience. Other means will hardly be required if this be afforded, while the most careful administration of dressings and medicines will be of little avail so long as the grand desideratum is withheld. The age, strength, and previous circumstances of the patient may render it proper to vary the subordinate treat- ment by bleeding or stimidating, fomenting or cauterising. The hospital gangrene, as described by mOitaiy surgeons, is not met with in civil hospitals to such a formidable extent; but a degree of the same effect, ]n"oceediag from a similar cause, is of frequent occtxrrence, and demands similar measures for its remedy. In the forms of this affection which I was accustomed to see in former days, when the accommodation for surgical patients in the Eoyal Infirmary of this city was not sufficiently extensive, the first sign of its commencement was the appearance of one or more small supeirficial circular excavations, looking as if scooped out from the surface of the sore. They had a yellow or grayish-yellow colour, and were devoid of granulations. Eapidly extending and coalescing, they entirely altered the aspect of the ulcer, which, at the same time, partly from swelling of its edges, and also from phagedenic action, became much increased in extent. A soft spongy slough of a dirty white colour next pre- sented itself, generally extending over the whole surface, but varying in thickness. While these local changes were in pro- gress, and apparently keeping pace with them, a general derange- ment of the patient's system was observed. He acquired a sickly yellow aspect, lost his sleep and appetite, and had an extremely