6 PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. and bloody effusions into the cellular texture, wMcli always take place to more or less extent, tlie most frequent indication of a change in. the action of the nutritive apparatus is softening of the tissue concerned. In some cases this alteration is so remarkable, that it has been thought necessary to designate it by a peculiar expression, viz., ramollissemcnt. This effect of inflammation is, on many occasions, of great importance, but at present deserves attention chiefly as affording evidence that the nutritive process is not performed in its usual manner. Another fact which leads to the same conclusion is the rapidity with which putre- faction proceeds after death, in parts where inflammation has previously existed. It may be said that the more than usual proportion of fluids congested by the diseased action may ac- covmt for this speedy decomposition, without supposing that the constituent particles are altered by it in their relation to each other. But, in such a view of the matter, we ought to observe the same putrefactive tendency equally strong in parts where blood has been simply effused .into their texture, which is not the case. Constitutional Disturhance.—The disturbance of the system, or Fever, as it is called, which accompanies inflammation, con- sists of an alteration in the performance of all the functions of the body. The phenomena, which are in consequence exhibited, vary very much, according to peculiarities of the patient's con- stitution, and the part which is inflamed. Generally, the pulse is hard and frequent, beating from 80 to 120, and in children much faster,—the respiration is hurried,—the face is flushed,— the eyes are suffused,—the tongue is white and loaded,—there is no appetite,—inordinate thirst,—headache,—constipation,— scanty urine,—dryness of the skin,—confusion of ideas or delirium,—and prostration of strength in the voluntary muscles. This state of general disturbance, which is named Inflammatorj'- or Symptomatic Fever, does not always accompany inflammation, and is usually proportioned to the violence of the local symptoms. Its type or chaxacter also varies, as already mentioned, accord- ing to tlie part or patient affected. The pulse may be small.