PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 370 using regular diet and exercise, avoiding excesses of every kind, and obviating constipation, if it should occur, by suitable medicine or regimen. Similar attention will palliate the symptoms ; but during the paroxysms it is often necessary to maintain the hori- zontal posture, to facilitate the evacuation of the bowels, by ad- nunistering laxative doses of castor oil and emollient injections, and to allay the inflammatory condition of the parts affected by warm fomentations, the hip-bath, and leeches applied round the margin of the anus. Much relief is obtained in the chronic state of the complaint, by the regular use of cold water after evacua- tion of the bowels. But to effect a radical cure it is necessary to remove the excrescences, which may be done by the knife or ligature, accordingly as the disease is external or internal. In regard to external piles there can be no doubt that excision is the preferable mode, being much more speed}'-, and attended with less pain. It may be performed either with a knife or scissors, while the excrescence is held steady with a hook, forceps, or the finger and thumb. There is seldom bleeding of any consequence, and if a vessel should throw out a jet, it can be readUy tied. The excision of hemorrhoids from Avithin the sphincter, owing to the greater vascularity in this situation, and the difficulty of apply- ing pressure or styptics to the cut surface, is attended with the danger of hemorrhage so profuse as to be very alarming, or even prove fatal, and is also apt to excite a no less dangerous in- flammation. In such cases the ligature ought to be preferred, as it is perfectly safe, and has the advantage of so altering the structure of any portion of the excrescence that may have been permitted to remain, as to prevent a relapse of the disease. When the patient, by straining at stool, has caused the whole mass of excrescences to protrude, the surgeon should tie them close to their roots with silk threads as tightly as he can. He may do this either by transfixing them at the base with a needle, and then including a half of each in one of the threads, or if they are small, seizing them with a hook or forceps, and applying single ligatures. The everted gut and tumours should then be carefuUy replaced, and the patient should not quit the horizontal posture