PELVIS. 379- flexible or rigid,—the former being made of elastic gum, and the latter of silver. Unless there is reason to suspect some morbid alteration in the width or direction of the urethra,—the mode of discovering and treating which will be explained hereafter,—an instrument should be selected equal in size to the ordinary width of the canal. Different surgeons prefer different curvatures of the catheter; but it may be observed in general that it is passed most readily when the bent part is short. The patient should be laid reclining, or made to stand erect with his back supported. The surgeon, holding the penis between the thumb and fingers of his left hand, introduces the point of the catheter, lubricated with oil, into the urethra, and pushes it gently onwards, at the same time stretching the penis until it reaches the bulb. He then relinquishes his hold of the penis with the left hand, applies the points of its fingers to the perineum at the verge of the anus, and bringing the catheter into the direction of the mesial j)lane, withdraws the handle from the abdomen, so as to make the point ascend from the dilatation at the biilb, into the more narrow membranous part of the canal. By simply continuing to de- press the handle, and supporting the perineum, or introducing his fore-finger into the rectum, so as to elevate the point more effectually, he conveys the catheter fairly into the bladder. A surgeon who is practised in the operation will find it more con- venient, when the patient is standing, to introduce the catheter as far as the bulb with the convexity upwards or towards the pubis; and then, by making the handle describe a semicircle, turn it into the same position as when passed thus far the other way. The subsequent part of the process should be conducted in the manner which has been already explained. The danger to be dreaded in performing this operation consists in forcing the point of the catheter through the lining membrane of the urethra into the spongy texture which surrounds it. The false passages thus made occur most frequently about four inches from the orifice, owing to the handle of the catheter being too soon depressed;—at the bulb, from its not being depressed sufficiently, whence the point is pushed between the membranous part of