48 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. scending towards it, just as the banks of a river seein to glide past tlie observer, who is carried smoothly on by the current. The best evidence as to this is afforded by sores seated over bones or other fixed points, between which and the surface of the granulations the distance is not found to increase. In the old way of performing amputation, by cutting all the parts of the limb nearly on the same level, a large granidating surface re- sulted, which, if successive layers of organized structure were really formed by it, should have grown out into a bulbous shape. But, instead of this, it is well known that just the opposite con- dition took place, and that the surrounding skin was drawn in a puckered form closely round the bone. In short, the healing of an ulcer should be regarded as an action not of effusion or new formation, but of absorption or contraction; and it will be found, on considering the treatment of ulcers, that whatever causes swelling of the part concerned impedes, whUe everything pro- ductive of an opposite effect tends to hasten, the progress of recovery. When an ulcer is examined by dissection, the cellular sub- stance lying under and around its base is found more or less infiltrated and condensed with lymph; but the granular cover- ing is very thin, being limited to the crust effused in the first instance, and subsequently organized. The texture under the thin pellicle of the granulations is liable to be distended with blood or serum, which occasions a state similar to oedema, and elevates the surface of the ulcer so as to present the appearance which is commonly named proud flesh. Morbid nutrition may occur in the same situation, and then growths of various size, form, and appearance, spring up ; but these, so far from having any share in the process of cure, tend to delay or entirely prevent it. It may be asked, why should not the natural structures be regenerated, if diseased ones are thus formed ? But it should be recollected, that all we know of the laws of nature is learned from observation; and mere analogy, in opposition to weU- ascertained facts, affords no reason to expect any reproduction of lost parts in the human subject. There are other cii'cumstances