PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 336 epiplocele, accordingly as it contains intestine or omentum alone, or both together. There is no limit to the size of the protrusion, which varies from mere fulness in the situation of the inguinal apertures, to a size nearly equal to the whole intestinal canal. The causes of hernia may be divided into those which pre- dispose to the disease, and those which immediately give rise to it. The predisposing causes are circumstances which diminish the resistance that opposes the exit of the viscera. Of these the sex of the patient may be mentioned first, since the larger size of the inguinal canal in males renders their predisposition to the disease greatly superior to that of females, so that the proportion which the cases of the former bear to those of the latter is at least a hundred to one. Emaciation and relaxation of the body diminish the resistance remarkably, and some persons seem to labour under a natural peculiarity of structure that exposes them more than others to the disease. The exciting causes consist in the operation of more than usual compressing force acting on the viscera of the abdomen. Such force is exerted during every energetic effort, especially if made with the superior extremities; since, to give the muscles of the arms firm points of attachment, the chest must be rendered immovable, and this is done by contracting the diaphragm together with the abdominal muscles, while the glottis is kept closely shut. The viscera, being thus compressed between the diaphragm and abdominal muscles, are violently forced against the whole surface of the cavity, and if any weak part exist in it, a ]protrusion takes place. This effect is most apt to happen when an effort is made in the erect posture, for the diaphragm, which then extends obliquely downwards and backwards, will consequently press the viscera - downwards and forwards in the direction of the inguinal open- ings. An attention to the same circumstance will afford some explanation of the fact that inguinal hernia occurs much more frequently on the right than the left side, the reason of which appears to be that, when an effort is made, the trunk of the body is usually bent to the opposite side, and, as most vigorous efforts are made with the right arm, the diaphragm will on such occa-