PELVIS. 425 ful counter-irritation, especially that effected by the actual cautery applied on each side of the spinous processes of the lower lumbar vertebrae, affords the best chance of relief; and internal stimulants, as cantharides, may be conjoined with this practice, though there is seldom decided evidence of their exert- ing any beneficial influence. Warm and cold bathing, frictions, and strict attention to the preservation of general health, should at the same time be diligently employed ; and improvement must not be despaired of though it should be a long while of appear- ing. Incontinence is common in old age; but in this case is generally confined to the period of sleep, and may be prevented from proving troublesome by introducing the catheter previous to the time of rest. In extreme cases of incontinence, when there is a constant dribbling from the urethra, the patient may be rendered comparatively comfortable by attaching to the penis a bag of India rubber, provided with a plug or stop-cock, for allow- ing the urine to escape when a convenient opportimity occurs. Imtdbility _qr Chronic In^mmation of the Bladder. This complaint is almost confined to males. It is charac- terised by frequent desire to make water, and inability to resist these calls, however incessant or inconvenient. The feeling before micturition is generally more or less painful, and some- times extremely so, whence stone 'or stricture is often supposed to be present, and this supposition leads to the introduction of instruments that greatly aggravate the patient's sufferings. The disease usually occurs in young and middle-aged men. It is occasioned by various circumstances, siTch as over-distension, which in the first instance causes paralysis of the muscular fibres, the irritation of stimulating food, or chronic inflammation, spreading back from the urethra, or originating in the mucous coat of the bladder, in consequence of exposure to cold, or other exciting causes of inflammatory derangement. The treatment consists in using measures of a soothing nature, of which rest, both of mind and body, is an essential one. This, together with a mUk diet, copious diluent drinks, and the hip-bath, sometimes