248 ' PRINCIPLES OF SURGKliV. 01- bandages, and the edges of the wound placed fairly togetlier, the cure is often accomplished very readily. The elbow and wi'ist-joints also may in general be preserved, but the knee-jomt, when subjected to the great imtation which attends both a dis- location and penetrating wound, can hardly be expected not to inflame, and either prove speedily fatal or require subsequent amputation. Hence in such an injury the limb wiU. generally rcquu-e to be amputated immediately. Gunshot wounds of the shoulder and elbow, vmless the integuments, blood-vessels, or nerves, are much injured, may be remedied by cutting out tlie articulation, as in cases of caries. Inflammation of Joints. Inflammation of the joints is attended \nth deep-seated pain, greatly aggravated by motion or pressure, swelling, redness, and tenderness of the integuments, and more or less constitutional distiirbance, according to the intensity of the local symptoms. It is caused by the direct initation of wounds, strains, and bruises ; and iudii'ectly, by exposure to cold, errors of diet or exercise, and whatever induces derangement of the system. The consequences of inflammation in this situation are numerous and important, as might be expected from the number and nature of the textures which enter into the constitution of the articular apparatus. The synovial membrane becomes the seat of dropsical and purulent effusions, adhesions, tliickening, and gelatinous degeneration ; the cartilage suffers ulceration and exfoliation ; and the bones are liable to suppuration, caries, and anchylosis, or union of their respective surfaces. The consequences of inflammation are serious in proportion to its severity, and the unsoimdness of the patient's constitution ; but it ought always to be dreaded, and induced, if possible, to terminate in resolution. When the symptoms are acute, blood should be freely ab- stracted locally by leeches or cupping ; and if there is much strength of action in the system, general bleeding may also be practised. Calomel and opium are very useful where tlierfe is much irritability; and the tartrate of antimony, given in fre-