281 TENDONS. Rupture.—Tendons may be torn either by external violence, or by inordinate contraction of their own muscles. In the former case, they are most apt to give way where the muscular fibres are attached to them, and it not unfrequently happens that the tendons of the penniform muscles of the fingers or wrist are drawn out to the extent of five or six inches. It might be ex- pected that great irritation and diffused inflammation would result from such injuries, but the wound in general heals kindly, as if not complicated with any unusual peculiarity. It is a pradent precaution, however, to oppose the commencement of in- flammation by using cold applications in tlie first instance ; and if it should occur, incisions, together with warm fomentations, if the symptoms are violent, and the latter means alone if they are moderate, will be proper. When suppuration is established, com- pression along the course of the sinus, stimulating washes, and bandaging are required. Tendons are more frequently ruptured by the too energetic action of their muscles. The tendo Achillis is most liable to this accident, and, indeed, with the exception of the tendon of the extensors of the thigh, is almost the only one in which it occurs. It has been supposed that the thread-like tendon of the plantaris may be ruptured without a corresponding injury of the gxeat tendon of the ankle, and that such is the case where patients suddenly, after exertion, lose the power of extending the foot while no vacuity can be felt in the course of the tendo Achillis. But there can be little doubt that on such occasions the injury sustained is rupture of the muscular fibres, probably of the soleus. It is difficult to conceive that the loss of so smaU a power as that of the plantaris muscle should render the patient unable to move the ankle ; and the pain, discoloration, and tedious recovery which are usually obseiTcd to attend cases of the kind in question, are additional grounds for believing that the injury is seated in the muscular tissue. The tendo Achillis is usually ruptured in consequence of some sudden exertion in raising the body, or preventing it from falling. The patient feels a sensation as if struck with a blunt weapon. It