528 PRINCIPLES OP SUKGEEY. of treatment, except removal of the diseased parte, are found quite unavailing; but, in proceeding to this extreme measure, it is necessary to beware of regarding as cancerous, ulcers not pos- sessed of malignant action, and obstinate merely on account of the peculiar circumstance of their situation. Ulcers occurring on the lip at or before middle age may often be traced to the influence of local irritation, proceeding from the motion of the part, or the asperities of the teeth; and in all cases, unless the cancerous characters should be veiy distinct indeed, it is right to try the effects of rest by confining the lip with a bandage, and of removing any sharp points of the teeth that may be found to project, by filing or extracting them. While this trial is made, the sore should be dressed with black-wash, or solution of the sulphate of zinc, care being taken at the same time to remedy any derangement that may be discovered to exist in the state of the general health. If it is determined to remove the sore, there can be no hesi- tation in choosing excision as the best mode of doing so. Caustic of different kinds has often been used, but, besides being tedious and painful in producing its effect, it is always apt to aggravate the disease by eradicating it imperfectly, and irritat- ing the part which is allowed to remain. The method of excision generally followed is to cut out a triangular or V- shaped piece of the Hp, by making an incision obliquely down- wards on each side of the ulcer, so that the one may meet the other at an angle sufficiently acute for permitting the cut siu'- faces to be brought together and united, as in the operation for hare-lip. When the cancer is of no gTcat extent, and the lip possesses considerable fulness, this procedure is very convenient, and renders the resulting deformity little perceptible. But when a large part of the surface of the lip is affected, there would then be removed so great a portion of the sound struc- ture as must prevent or very much impede the union of the cut edges. In such cases, the method proposed by M. Eicherand is certainly to be preferred. It consists in cutting away the mor- bid part alone with curved scissors, after which the skin and