SKIN. 489 happens that no marked symptom of this attracts attention, until the local appearances present themselves. A state of too full health, or assimilation of food disproportioned to the patient's exercise, and also an irritable state induced by intemperance, and derangement of the biliary secretion, are the conditions most favoiu'able for producing the disease. In the form of boil it often exists in various parts of the body at the same time, or occurs in them successively. It is always accompanied with feverish disturbance, proportioned to the extent and acuteness of the local symptoms. The treatment of all the degrees of this affection should be conducted on the same principles. The first of these is to relieve tension, bleed from the j)art, and afford free vent to the confined matter, by making a freejjrucial incision completely through the integuments to the fuU extent of the disease ;—the next is, to promote the cleaning of the cavity, by applying soft poultices ;—and the third is, to correct the predisposing state of the system, which has induced the morbid action, by a sjoth- ing^,diet. When the boils are numerous and small, the local treatment that has been recommended would be more severe than the disease warrants, and may therefore be omitted, while the constitutional means are diligently employed. In the op- •posite extreme, where the carbuncle is of great extent, it is of the utmost consequence to proceed in the most efficient manner for subduing the local disease, and not only make free incisions in the first instance, but repeat them from time to time, if the inflammation should still at any part threaten to extend. Chronic Ctitaneous Diseases. Under the title of Cutaneous Diseases may be comprehended a great mimber of affections, apparently veiy dissimilar from each other, but which are found to differ chiefly in appearance, and in general to agree very closely in regard to the cause of their production, as well as the mode of their remedy. Tliey all consist in the existence of some chronic preternatural condition of the skin, and have been arranged into divisions, according to