PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 38 circulation being impeded eitlier by the mere posture of the body, or obstruction of the vessels, or from disease of the heart or liver, or the presence of a tumour compressing the veins, of winch pregnancy frequently affords an example in causing oedema of the Umbs. It also by no means rarely occurs without either any previous excitement of the part, or obstruction of the venous circulation that can be observed, and seems to depend on weak- ness alone. This may happen in both situations, but most fre- quently occurs in the subcutaneous cellular texture of the inferior extremities, as may be seen in the course of most chronic diseases which terminate fatally. The means of preventing serous effusion is, of course, to obviate so far as possible the circumstances which occasion it. Inflammation should be treated on the principles which have been explained to make it terminate in resohition. If the circu- lation of the veins is not free, the impeding cause ought to be re- moved. If weakness threatens to occasion the effusion, it must be counteracted by means suited to the case, and especially by the use of bandaging, together with the horizontal posture. The cure of effusion is sometimes accomplished by simply puncturing the skin, or sac containing the fluid, and allowing it to flow out. But very generally, the vessels from which the effusion has proceeded continue their action, so as to renew and maintain it after such evacuation. It is therefore necessary to change the action of the vessels, and this is done by various means. Mere external pressure sometimes suffices, and is more powerful when preceded by the application of blisters or stimu- lating ointments and lotions, to the neighbouring skin. When signs of excited action continue along with the effusion, general and local bleeding may be proper, together with applications of a soothing nature; and on the principle of counter-irritation or metastasis, diuretics, diaphoretics, and purgatives are admin- istered. It is generally observed, that the effused fluid is more readily absorbed when it is seated in the cellular substance, than when it occupies a serous bag, provided the exciting cause has been removed. When the dropsical effusion is of small extent