PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 518 Cancerous ulceration sometimes afiects the eyelids ; and, as excision of course affords the only effectual mode of remedy, it is important to determine how far these coverings of the eye may be removed without incurring the necessity of removing the eye itseK. It appears that the whole of the lower lid may be taken away without ahnost any inconvenience, and that a large part of the upper one may also be extirpated without depriving the eye of its necessary protection from external irritation. But if the whole or a considerable part of the upper eyelid required removal, it would be necessary to take away the eye along with it, as the patient could not otherwise avoid suffering extreme distress from the exposure of the organ until it acquired a cuti- cular covering, which, while it afforded protection against inita- tion, would effectually destroy the ]power of vision. It will seldom be necessary, however, to cut out a sound eye on this account, as when the cancer is so extensive as to require removal of the whole or greater part of the upper Ud, it almost always extends to the conjunctival covering of the ball. Obstruction, Abscess, and Fistula of the Lachrymal Passage. The duct which discharges the tears into the nose is apt to become obstructed at its inferior orifice, so as to impede or alto- gether prevent the fluid from descending. This usually occurs in persons who have been previously suffering, from chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva or ophthalmia tarsi, and it has consequently been ascribed to the accumulation of tliick mucous matters resulting from the morbid secretion thus produced. It seems more reasonable to suppose, that, by an extension of diseased action, the lining membrane of the nasal duct swells so as to contract or close the canal. The distinctive symptom of obstruction is distension of the lachrymal sac, forming a flattened round tumour at the inner angle of the eye, lying under the tarsal ligament, and hence often appearing as if bilobated. It is immovable, and when subjected to pressure usually diminishes or disappears, the contents being forced either downwards through the duct, which remains pervious though contracted, or upwards