446 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEKY. when the state of the patient's • constitution, from age or other circumstances, renders it imprudent to_ excite any more than the most gentle irritation. It ought always to be performed, before the radical cure is attempted, when the swelling is very large, or when it is necessary to' ascertain, by examining more accurately than can be done while the water still remains, that the con- dition of the testicle is not opposed to the success of the opera- tion required for this purpose. Various methods have been employed for effecting the per- manent cure of hydrocele. Of these the following may be men- tioned :—Incision, Excision, Caustic, Seton, and Injection. The last of these is now almost universally preferred, and it wHl, therefore, be sufficient to notice the others very shortly. Inci- sion, which is the most ancient practice, consisted in laying the cavity of the distended tunica vaginalis freely open, and inducing its obliteration by the granulating process. Inflammation and constitutional disturbance were the necessary consequences of this operation, and not unfrequently proved so violent as to occa- sion gangrene and death. The plan of Excision, though of very old origin, was chiefly practised in the latter part of the last century. It consisted in cutting away an elliptical portion of the integu- ments, together with the whole of the tunica vaginalis, where not adherent to the testicle and cord. This operation, though more tedious and painful in its execution than the former, occasioned less severe consequences, and was followed by a more speedy cure, owing to the serous tissue being in great part removed. The Caustic was applied in the same way as for making an issue. The aperture caused by it could not of course heal by the first intention, and necessarily excited suppuration of the whole surface, which then gradually contracted Like that of an ordinary abscess. This practice was employed during the last century, though not unfrequently attended with serious accidents in irritable constitutions. The Seton was applied to this purpose by Guy de Chauliac, in the fourteenth century, and is mentioned by Fallopius, Pare, and others, but was never very extensively used, either then or in more recent times. Pott strongly recom-