374 PRINCIPLES OF SUKGERY. latter being usually secondary to tliat of the former. After the matter is discharged, the cavity of the abscess very rarely heals spontaneously, but remains contracted in its capacity and thick- ened in its parietes, constituting a sinus, which is named Fistula in Ano. The fistula is said to be Blind External, Blind Internal, or Complete, accordingly as it has merely an external or internal opening, or both the one and the other. The external orifice is variously situated, but generally exists at one side, and is seldom either before or beliind the anus. It is. usually small, and sur- rounded by an elevated induration, more or less distinct. The internal opening was formerly thought eqiially variable in respect to its distance from the anus, and was searched for at the highest part to wliich the sinus reached. M. Eibes (1820) ascei-tained the important fact, that, if existing at all, it is almost invariably seated about an inch or little more from the anus, and can hence be brought nearly or altogether into view by forcibly separating the nates. It is generally small, and often extremely so, with difliculty permitting a probe to pass. The symptoms of the primary abscess are pain, hardness, and slight diffused swelling in the neighbourhood of the anus, from which relief is obtained upon a discharge of matter taking place externally, or from the gut. There is great variety in the degree of acuteness, and in the progress of the disease, the pain being sometimes very severe, and at others hardly perceptible, while evacuation may be accomplished in the course of -a week, or not until the expiration of months. The remaining sinus affords a thin discharge, which is sometimes very copious, and at others so scanty that the patient might suppose he had got quite well, were it not for a slight staining of the linen, and an uneasy sen- sation felt now and then in the parts affected. The unceasing action of the sphincter, which tends to separate the sides of the sinus, and the passage of liquid or gaseous matters from the in- testine through it, not only prevent the cavity from closing, but render its parietes thick and callous from the interstitial effusion of lymph, which is induced by the continued irritation thus occasioned.