161 AMPUTATION. proves to be from the second of them. The hemorrhage occa- sionally does not occur imtil the third, foiu'th, or even seventh day; and then almost always depends upon ulceration of the artery. In this case, a ligature should be applied to the orifice of the vessel, if the bleeding cannot be arrested by pressure effected through means of compresses introduced into the stump, and a tight bandage applied externally. When the stump does not unite, but inflames and suppurates, fomentations ought to be frequently applied until the discharge is fully established, when stimulating washes and pressure must be employed to support the weakened action of the granulating surfaces, and make them unite together. Purulent effusions into internal cavities occur chiefly in weak, debilitated, irritable subjects, and have been accounted for variously. They are known to result in such habits from excited action, whatever be the cause producing it. Inflamma- tion of the veins and blood-poisoning have also been supposed to be the cause of their occurrence. There are no means of remedy- ing such effusions, and the only way of avoiding them is, so far as possible, to avoid operating in circumstances which predispose to their occurrence. Exfohation of the bone is very troublesome, not only from delaying the process of cure, but by tending to render it imperfect through retraction of the soft parts composing the stump, which gradually takes place in the event of their not uniting over the extremity of the bone. It sometimes depends upon the injured or diseased state of the limb—and may also be occasioned by too free removal of the periosteum, or deficiency in the covering left for the bone. The most common form is merely a ring from the circumference of the bone, with irregular spicular prolongations upwards. But occasionally the exfolia- tion is much more extensive, and extends in a conical form up the interior of the bone. Particular Amputations. The fingers may be amputated with most advantage at the joints. There used to be a prejudice against leaving an articular M