SUPPUEATION. 67 ing fluids, but this opinion is now abandoned, and the effects on the system are attributed to the irritation which attends its secretion. Though the expression Hectic Fever is sanctioned by long use and universal acceptation, there appears to be good reason for laying it aside, since it leads directly and unavoidably to erroneous ideas of the condition which it is employed to denote. Fever implies disturbance of all the corporeal functions ; but in the hectic state, those of the stomach, brain, and many other parts, remain unaffected. Instead of Hectic Fever, therefore, it would perhaps be be'tter to use the expression of Hectic Irrita- tion. The effect of this irritation is to weaken the system more and more; at length fever is really induced—the patient shivers —his tongue becomes foul—^he loses his appetite—and speedily sinks under the disease. A method of treating chronic abscesses was introduced by Mr. Abernethy, which has generally been regarded as a great improvement, though often of doubtful expediency. It consisted in drawing off, at first, only part of the contents by means of a trocar, allowing the wound to heal by the first intention, and then repeating the puncture, with the interval of two or three weeks, until the collection was so reduced in size, that the cavity could be safely laid open and healed from the bottom as an ordinary abscess. If the abscess is large, the patient should be confined to bed, and kept quiet for some days previously and subsequently ■to the operation; for if these precautions be disregarded, even though the wound should heal by the first intention, there will be a risk of inflammation. Care should be taken to prevent the entrance of air, not because it possesses any power of direct irritation, but because it promotes putrefaction of the remaining matter, and in that way gives rise to the most violent disturbance. If there is reason to suppose that the abscess is connected with any incurable disease in the bones or elsewhere, it ought not to be opened, unless proving the cause of pain or some other serious inconvenience, since doing so could only accelerate the patient's fate, and bring the surgical art into discredit. Such abscesses often exist for years without suffering apparently any change, or