EYE. 507 Cataract The lens and its capsule are liable, together or separately, to opacity, which more or less impedes vision, and constitutes the disease named Cataract, The substance of the lens, when thus aifected, is sometimes firmer than usual, at other times softer, or even fluid, according to which varieties cataract is divided into hard, soft, and mUky. Opacity of the capsule is seated in the anterior layer ; when it exists alone, there is usually no lens, in consequence either of congenital defect, or removal by operation. Lenticular cataract, when solid, is generally of most firm con- sistence at the centre. Its colour is very various, from dark- brown to white when examined through the cornea, but does not exhibit so much difference when removed from the eye, being for the most part grayish-yellow ia the firm kind, and bluish- white in the soft or milky cataract. The last mentioned appears larger, and as if occupying the posterior chamber more fully than usual. Capsular cataract has a grayish mottled appearance, and seems as if flattened. The causes of cataract are involved in great obscurity. It is " sometimes congenital, and then consists either in opacity of the anterior part of the capsule, with atrophy of the lens, or in a soft curdy state of the latter. It frequently occurs at an advanced period of life, after the age of fifty, particularly in persons having light-coloured eyes, where it is generally of dense structure. External violence, as that of a smart blow on the eye, or the penetration of a shaip-pointed instrument into the lens, frequently induces almost immediately the formation of cataract, which in such cases is usually of a white colour and soft consistence. It appears that the substance of a lenticular cataract suffers no change in its firmness during the continuance of the opacity, and that it is either hard or soft from the com- mencement of the disease. The symptoms of cataract are—1, A brown, yellow, gray, or white colour of the pupil, instead of its usual blackness ; 2, De- fective vision, from mere dimness to complete blindness, except