SKIN. 487 treatment more benefit is derived from local remedies, and anti- phlogistic measures of a general kind . are more frequently- required than those of a stimulating nature. When the head is concerned, blood should, if necessary, be abstracted by venesec- tion ; and it is only when the patient's system is extremely weak that an opposite method ought to be pursued. A dilute solution of the tartrate of antimony, with the supertartrate of potass, or the saline purgatives, if given so as to maintain a degree of nausea, with copious discharge from the bowels, exerts a power- ful influence in subduing the disease. Of local means, those of a repellent kind, such as cold lotions, are considered unsafe, at least if they are used before the constitutional disorder has been removed. Bleeding from the inflamed surface sometimes affords benefit, and may be obtained by leeching, puncturing, or scarify- ing. It has been objected to the use of leeches, that it may excite irritation by the bites, but this inconvenience has not been experienced in practice. Punctures to the number of from ten to fifty, repeated once or twice a day (Sir E. Dobson, 1828), have been preferred by some as free from this objection, besides being- more economical and convenient. Incisions of an inch or two in length, and made fairly down to the cellular texture (Copland Hutchison, 1814), are of great use in the phlegmonous form of the disease ; both, in the first instance, by cutting short the in- flammatory process, and also in the more advanced stage by facilitating the discharge of pus or sloughs. Longer incisions, equal in extent to the inflamed surface, and sometimes exceed- ing one or two feet, have been recommended (Lawrence, 1828), but seem to have no advantage to compensate for their severity, and cannot be regarded as exempt from danger in systems not particularly strong. There are few cases that require incisions of any kind ; and great mischief has resulted from their too in- discriminate employment. In persons who are very weak, and suffer intense pain, the best application is a warm solution of acetate of lead with opium. Wlieu there is much swelling of the pai-t affected (Qidematous Erysipelas), pressure is found very beneficial, both before suppuration, and while sinuses exist after