212 PRINCIPLES OF SUPvGERY. ing exertion requisite for accoraplisliing the cure, he ought to be relieved by amputation. Su^uraiion of Bone and Caries. It is only in the cancellated or spongy texture of bone that inflammation induces suppuration ; the dense parts never taking it on unless they are previously expanded and loosened, in conse- quence of chronic inflammation. In the cancellated texture sup- puration is frequently preceded by scrofulous deposition. The matter may be collected either on the external surface, or in the interior of the bone. In both cases there is more or less excavation, efi"ected by absorption of the bone concerned; and in the latter not only this effect ensues, but also an enlarge- ment of the external shell of the bone, which thus forms an ex- pansion, constituting what is called spina ventosa. The most remarkable example of osseous expansion from the formation of matter with which I am acquainted, is a preparation in the Museum of the College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. It residted from fracture of the tibia, and existed, progressively increasing, for many years, during which the patient was enabled to discharge the duties of an active life, by closing the orifice with a cork, which he removed from time to time when he. found a convenient opportunity for poui-ing out the accumulated fluid. The cavities which are formed in the cancellated substance of bones, especially in those cases where there has been a pre- vious infiltration of scrofulous formation, frequently contain loose portions of the spongy bone, which have been deprived of vita- lity by the inflammation. When the matter escapes fi-om a hollow of the bone by causing absorption of its sides, or when it is formed, in the first instance, exterior to it, the integuments are elevated, and at length give way, with great relief from the pain which was previously suffered. The abscess may then heal, like an ordinary one of the soft parts, or prove very obstinate, or per- manently resist all means of cure. It is impossible to foretell positively which of these events will ensue, but experience and