PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 16G itseK, beyond the reach of any partial amputation of the foot, some attempts had been made to remove it at the an Vie, by making a flap from the integuments of the instep, but with results so little satisfactory, that amputation of the leg continued to be the established means of remedy in such cases. In 1842, I accomplished the object in a different way, by preserving the tliick integimients of the heel for covering the ends of the bones, and this may now be considered the proper procedure for effect- ing removal of the foot when practicable. When the operation is to be perfonned, pressure should be made on the tibial arteries by the fingers of an assistant, or a tourniquet applied above the anMe. The only instruments required are a knife, of which the blade should not exceed foui inches in length, and a saw. The foot being held at a right angle to the leg, the point of the knife is introduced immediately below the malleolar projection of the fibida, rather nearer its posterior than anterior edge, and then carried across the bone to the inner side of the ankle, where it terminates at the point exactly opposite its commencement. The extremities of the inci- sion thus formed are then joined by another passing in front of the joint. The operator next proceeds to detach the flap from. the bone, and for this purpose, having placed the fingers of his left hand over the prominence of the os calcis, and inserted the point of his thumb between the edges of the plantar incision, guides the Imife between the bone and nail of the thumb, taking great care to cut parallel with the bone, and to avoid scoring or laceration of the integuments. He then opens the joint in front, carries his knife outwards and downwards on each side of the astragalus, so as to divide the lateral ligaments, and thus com- pletes the disarticulation. Lastly, the knife is carried roimd the extremities of the tibia and fibula, so as to afford room for apply- ing the saw, by means of which the articular projections are removed, together with a thin connecting slice of bone covered by cartilage. The vessels being then tied, and the edges of the wound stitched together, a piece of wet lint is applied lightly over the stump, without any bandage, so as to avoid the risk of