JOINTS. 253 yellow gelatinous mass, varying in thickness from a line to half an inch or more. This alteration usually occurs in individuals who are disposed to scrofulous action, whence it is generally named the Scrofulous affection of the synovial membrane. Though, met with at aU periods of life, it most frequently com-. mences in yoimg persons before the age of puberty, and is generally induced by some local cause of irritation, though there are many cases in which its origin seems to be entirely s]iontaneous. Tlie first symptoms of the disease that attract attention are swelling and diminished mobility of the joint affected. The swelling is soft, elastic, and colourless, and is diffused over the whole extent of the synovial membrane which does not cover the articulating cartilages. As the morbid thickening increases, the degree of enlargement and stiffness keeps pace with it, but still the patient hardly complains of pain. If the parts be examined by dissection during this stage, the synovial membrane is found more or less thickened, gelatinous, and vascular; the surroimd- rng cellular substance is greatly thickened and condensed by albuminous effusion into its interstices, and the ligaments do not present an outHne so distinct as usual, being matted together with the adjacent tissues. The joint may remain thus altered for months, or even years, without suffering any further change ; but the diseased condition at last terminates either in absorption or suppuration. In the former case, the articulation is restored more or less completely to its previous condition, but almost always continues somewhat swelled and stiff; in the latter, ■ openings into the joint are formed for the discharge of matter, the articular cartilages exfoliate or are absorbed, the cancellated structure of the bones is exposed, and the patient, if not relieved, either dies hectic, or recovers with a limb rigid and shrivelled. Instead of the joint, there is then either a perfeqtly unyielding union by osseous matter, Avhich is named Anclilyosis, or a firm fibrous bond of connection, constituting what is called false Anchylosis. The treatment of the disease in its first stage ouglit to be