PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. the history of the case, convinced me that a portion of the bone was dead, and detached, I therefore extended upwards the incision already made, finding it necessary to use for this purpose both the knife and cutting-pliers, and then ascertained that the exfoliation lay loose in a bony case. Being unwilling to remove any of the new-formed osseous substance which was destined to take the place of the old bone, I forcibly dilated tlie edges of the aperture until the shell gave way sufficiently to permit extraction . of the sequestrum. After the principal portion was removed, some small pieces were found lying in the cavity, which proved to be fragments of the dense plate that had formed the convex surface of the head of the bone. The glenoid cavity of the scapula was divested of cartilage, but covered with a smooth firm velvet-like lining. Kecovery was delayed by unhealthy action of the sore, which assumed a phagedenic and afterwards a sloughing character, but was so far completed on the 7th of September that the boy returned home with an arm not per- ceptibly shortened, and, though still stiff at the shoulder, nearly as useful as ever. I saw the patient, some years afterwards, grown up to be a strong active man. In 1826, I operated on a shoulder-joint which had been diseased, for upwards of seven years, and had reduced the patient, a female between thirty and forty years of age, to the greatest degree of exhaustion. The head of the humerus was completely excavated and carious, and presented a most favourable oppor- tunity for excision. Eecovery was soon completed, and for many years afterwards, until she died of some other complaint, the poor woman was enabled to lead an active industrious life, with the full use of her arm for all ordinary employments. . It should be known that this joint is remarkably distinguished by its liabilit}' to suffer from disease in one of the bones composing it, wliile the other remains free from the same derangement—so that the head of the humerus may suffer from absorption and caries, while the glenoid cavity is no otherwise changed than by the removal of its cartilage. This important peculiarity, until lately, did not admit of any satisfactory explanation, but has had some light