PRINCIPLES OF SUHCERY. 22 jalap, rhubarb, croton oil, and sulphate of magnesia. The saline purgatives induce a very copious secretion from the whole sur- face of the intestines, whUe calomel is thought to act more j)ar- ticularly on the liver, by restoring or promoting its secretion. The blue pill and rhubarb are very beneficial in gradually restoring these actions to a state of liealth when their disturb- ance has occasioned chronic inflammation. Purgative agents are often introduced into the rectum with the view of hastening the effect of those administered by the inouth, or superseding the necessity of their use, when from any circumstance their employment happens to be inconvenient. The gi'and essential of these injections, clysters, or enemata, as they are named, is quantity sufficient to distend the rectum, since this is the proper stimulus of that gut. From one to two pounds of gruel, or simply tepid water, should be used, and made more or less irritating, according to circumstances, by the addition of common salt, olive oil, castor oil, sulphate of mag- nesia, or oil of turpentine, etc. Various apparatus used to be employed for the purpose of injection ; but the simple and efficient means of Read's syringe, and Higginson's tube, have superseded all the others. Diapliorctics.—These are remedies wliich, in the effect they produce, bear the same relation to the sldn that purgatives do to the mucous membrane of the intestines. They increase the action of the sldn, and are thus beneficial either in the "way of metastasis, or in removing the cause of the inflammation, by re- storing a secretion which has been suppressed. The salts of ammonia have a diaphoretic effect ] but, being of a stimulating nature, are questionable remedies for subduing excited action of the system. The Aqua Acctatis Ammonice, however, may be given with much advantage in small doses, from time to time, after the force of the disease has been broken by other means. Ipecacuan is less objectionable in this respect, and the combination of it with opium, constituting Dover's powder, is often extremely useful. By far the best diaphoretic, however, for subduing inflammfitory action, is the tartrate of