30 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. is briglit and fiery, the paiu hot and burning, and the swelling tense. As mortification approaches, the swelling becomes less tense, and pits on pressure. The skin acquires a yellowish hue, and exhibits dark mottled spots or broad lines over its surface. The temperature of the part becomes lower ; and vesicles, con- taining a thin serous fluid of a yellow, green, or purple colour, which are named iMydmce, make their appearance. This state is called Gangrene, or gangrenous inflammation. The part is not dead, but only threatening to die, and may still admit of recovery, though a portion of it at least usually does perish. When the vital power is completely extinguished, the part ceases to be painful or sensible, shrinks in proportion to its previous distension, becomes black, brown, ash-gray, or buff-coloured, and emits a peculiar chara^eristic fetor, which is nearly the same whatever be the tissue ^icerned. It is then said to be sphace- lated, or to constitute a slough. The symptoms presented by the system, while these local changes are taking place, deserve great attention. They are nearly those which have been already described as attending sinkmg from excessive hemorrhage. The countenance is pale, cold, and moist; the features seem small and contracted; and the appearance exhibits that ill-omened aspect which has been designated the facics. Hippocratica; the pulse is quick, feeble, and irregular ; the tongue is brown ; and the lips frequently dis- play small dark-coloured scabs. The patient lies, on his back completely collapsed, or, as it were, sunk down into his bed ; he has frequent coffee-coloured vomiting, and suffers from almost incessant hiccup. His body emits a peculiar odour, somewhat like that of moist earth. He sometimes- retains his mental faculties entire ; but more frequently falls into a dozing state, alternated with low muttering delirium. The breathing becomes obstructed by mucous effusion, and death closes the scene. It is not easy to account for these constitutional s}Tnptdms. They have been attributed to the sphacelated part acting like a poison. But where sloiighing is induced directly by chemical or mechanical means, even to a great extent, it is not usually