PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 54 Whately and Baynton, the former of whom recommended a calico or flannel bandage, to be tightly applied from the toes upwards to the knee ; and the latter, in addition to this means, to make the compression more effectual, employed straps of adhesive plaster, an iuch .or two broad, and long enough not only to encircle the limb, but to cross each other far enough to obtain a firm hold when drawn round the leg, and across the sore. The limb having been shaved, a slip of plaster is applied an inch or two below the sore; then another a little further up, so as to leave a third of the former one exposed; then another in the same way ; and so on, until not only the ulcer, but an inch of the skia above it is covered. Lastly, a cotton roUer, three inches broad, and five yards long, is applied from the toes upwards. Unless the discharge is profuse, the sore need not be dressed oftener than once in two days. Under this treatment the swell- ing of the limb subsides—the callous edges speedily disappear— the surface of the idcer granulates, discharges a purulent secre- tion, and cicatrises as an ordinary healing sore. The good effects of this treatment are usually ascribed to its stimulating the actions, which are supposed to be in an indolent state, and I thus exciting a healing action in the sore. But the true explaua- I tion probably is, that it allows the healing action to proceed, by I inducing an absorption of the swelling which occupies the limb, and which, though of secondary origin, inasmuch as it proceeds from the continued initation of the ulcer, when once estab- lished, must oppose the contraction requisite for the process of cicatrisation. I have accordingly found that the application of a large blister, covering the sore and a considerable part of the limb, greatly hastens the cure, and generally proves sufficient for its completion, without the use of any other means. The immediate effect of this practice is removal of the swelling, so that the thick callous edges disappear, and the surface of the ulcer coming to be on a level with the surrounding skin, granulates and cicatrises. In favour of this treatment I may mention, that it is more speedy and lasting in its effects than the strapping process—and much