PELVIS. 423 the pubis. Should that operation be judged necessary, it is to be perfoimed in the same way as in the male ; but especial care must be taken in introducing the trocar not to transfix the elon- gated and naiTowed neck of the bladder, which may happen by directing the instrument perpendicularly, instead of l^ackwards towards the promontory of the sacrum. Tlie uterus. also has been punctured from the rectum ; but this proceeding must be regarded as unwarrantable, unless the other more safe measures have been tried without success. When the resistance of the -.^ distended bladder has been removed, the sui-geon should intro- / duce the fore and middle fingers of one hand into the rectum, while the other co-operates in tbe vagina, and endeavour to replace the retroverced uterus. It may be observed that females, who suffer from uterine ex- citement or hysterical affections, are apt to complain of inability to excrete the urine, and the catheter is often used in such cases ; but warm fomentations applied to the hypogastrium, and cathartic injections thrown into the rectum, will almost always obviate any real necessity for its employment in such circumstances. Urinary Gcdculi in the Female. Females seem to be much less liable to the formation of renal calculi than the other sex, and get quit of them more readily when they do occur, owing to the shortness, width, and dilata- bHity of their urethra. Sometimes, however, calculi are detained after desoending from the kidney, and nuclei for concretion are also occasionally afforded by foreign bodies introduced from with- out, through the urethra into the bladder. The stones, which have their foundation laid in either of these ways, increase in magnitude in the maimer already explained, and occasion symp- toms analogous to those formerly described. Frequent micturi- tion, the urine tinged with blood, and aggravation of these complaints by rough motion, excite the suspicion of calculus in the bladder, especially if the patient has previously suffered the symptoms which indicate the presence of one in the kidney or ureter, and the introduction of a catheter or sound ascertains its