GENITAL ORGANS. 453 of course, affords tlie only' means of relief, is performed even in very advanced cases witli a favourable prognosis. In the earlier stage of the growth, it is often found very difficult to determine positively, by external examination, whether the swelling is solid, or depends on the presence of fluid. The globular shape, tendency to tuberous projections of the surface, pain, and equality of consistence at all parts of the tumour, observed when it is solid, may generally render the discrimination precise ; but in cases of doubt, the truth can readily be discovered by making a pimcture, which can do no harm, if the patient is prepared to submit to extirpation of the testicle in the event of its proving necessary. The tumour, when divided, displays the characters peculiar to such degenerations, namely, a soft brain-lilce pulpy substance, irregularly partitioned by thin septa of cellular texture, and varying in colour from white to dark-red, according to the pro- poi-tion of blood which enters into the composition of the mass. Sibppuration and Fungus of the Testicle. Young men of scrofulous constitutions are liable to abscesses and sinuses of the testicle, which are apt to prove very obsti- nate, even when they are freely dilated by incision. It might seem in such cases that extirpation would be a simpler, much speedier, and hardly more injurious mode of relief, than thus laying open the structure of the gland by dividing it in various directions ; but if the cure is completed, very little trace of these incisions remains, and the organ may perhaps be still capable of performing its office. It occasionally happens after suppuration has taken place in the testicle, particularly when induced by the cachectic state caused by mercury and preceded by hardness, and the resulting matter has been discharged, that a fungous excrescence protrudes from the opening, presenting a very for- midable appearance, which formerly led to removal of the organ as affected with malignant disease. Mr. Lawrence pointed out the true nature of these j)roductions, and explained that they depended not upon the peculiarity of action, but on the pecu- liarity of structure, which, being soft and enclosed in a finn