PRINCIPLES OF SURGEEY. 332 The patient should be seated on a chair, or the edge of his bed, with the back and legs properly supported. A flannel ban- dage, nine inches broad, and long enough to surround the abdo- men, cross behind, and leave a sufficient hold for an assistant on each side, whose duty is to maintain the pressure as it is dimi- nished by the evacuation of the fluid, is applied. The surgeon then having made an aperture in the bandage, opposite the part where he wishes to puncture, and holding the handle of the trocar in the palm of his hand, while the point of his fore-finger is rested on the abdomen by the side of the canula, pushes the instrument through the thin distended parietes, until he feels that the point does not encounter any more resistance. He then withdraws the trocar, and at the same time insinuates the canula a little farther, to prevent any chance of its escape during the flow of the fluid. When it appears that the cavity has been emptied, the canula may be taken out,—a piqce of folded lint is placed on the wound,—the ends of the bandage, which hitherto have been held by the assistants, are brought round and fastened over the front, or opposite sides of the abdomen, —and the patient is replaced in bed. Hernia. When the viscera of the abdomen are protruded through the parietes of their containing cavity, while the integuments cover- ing the part remain entire, the displacement is named a Hernia. It was formerly thought that the peritoneum was necessarily torn in such cases, whence the disease was named Eupture ; but it has been fully ascertained, that, except in some few rare cases, this membrane always remains entire, and being pushed before the protruded viscera, constitutes a pouch or Sac, as it is called, for their reception. Hernia may take place at almost any part of the abdominal parietes, but does so most frequently through the apertures that naturally exist in them for the transmission of vessels. These are the inguinal and femoral canals, and the umbiliciis ; and the hernial protrusions which occupy them are accordingly named Inguinal, Femoral, and Umbilical.