BLOOD-VESSELS. 99 former is on many accounts preferable. Folded portions of it, successively increased in size, constituting what are called gra- 'I—- dimted__compEesaes, ought to be applied over the bleeding vessel, and secured by a proper bandage. Unless the first one is placed directly on the orifice of the artery, the subsequent pieces, how- ever firmly compressed, will have little effect, and therefore the wound should if necessary be dilated sufficiently to admit the lint. When the hem>|iorrhage takes place into a cavity, the parietes of which are firm and unyielding, it may sometimes be restrained by closing the outlets, so as to make the blood accu- mulate, and press upon the orifices whence it issues. Thus epistaxis, or bleeding from the nose, may be arrested, and also hemorrhage from the uterus in the early months of pregnancy, by plugging the nostrils and vagina. Bleeding from a leech-bite may be arrested by transfixing the wound with a sewing needle and tying a thread tightly round it. In the same way was sub- dued a hemorrhage from the umbilicus of an infant, two weeks old,, which I saw with Dt. Begbie, and where the actual cautery had been used in vain, at the suggestion of the late Dr. Hamil- ton, who said that the very few cases of the same kind j)reviously seen by him had proved fatal. I passed two sewing needles crosswise as deep as possible through the conical cavity from which the blood proceeded, and then tied a thread round them. Styptics are agents which, independently of any compressing effect, possess a power of checking hemorrhage. Of these may be mentioned the sulphates of copper, zinc, iron, and alumina, and the nitrate of silver; strong spirits, oil of turpentine, and the actual cautery ; also soft spongy or powdery substances, such as dried lycoperdon, spiders' webs, and the agaric of the oak or amadou. This last constituted the famous styptic of Brossard, which possessed a very high reputation both in France and in this country towards the close of the last century. Before the proper principles for applying the ligature were ascertained and received, styptics were regarded as important means for controlling hemorrhage; but they are now very little used. M. Amussat endeavoured to introduce a fourth mode of suppressing hemor-