252 PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. to a regulated diet for some days previous to the operation. The cartilage should then be moved into that part of the joint which is most superficial—as over the flat surface of the external con- dyle.in the case of the knee—and held steadily there, whUe a free decided incision is made down upon it, so as to allow of its escape when urged out by the same pressure that was employed pre- viously to fix it, and render unnecessary any groping with hooks, forceps, etc.,-which must increase the chance of inflammation. The edges of the wound ought to be placed together, and kept constantly cool with wet cloths; the joint being at the same time protected carefully from motion, and all other kinds of ini- tation. It occurred to me, and nearly at the same time to a French surgeon, M. Goyrand, that the object of this operation might be attained more safely by merely dislodging the moveable body from the joint by puncturhig the skin with a needle or narrow-bladed knife, and opening the synovial membrane by a subcutaneous incision, through Mdiicli the body coiild be pushed into the cellular substance. The first case in which I tried this method was attended with a satisfactory result. The patient, a man about 40, of a very irritable constitution, was admitted in- to the Infirmary on account of a cartilage in the knee, which completely disabled him for any sort of active employment. Superficial suppuration took place a few days after the dislodg- ment; and it being necessary to make an opening for the dis- charge of matter, I took the opportunity of extracting the car- tilage. The joint remained free from disturbance. In executing this procedure the knife should be used very freely, so as to let the body escape without a dangerous degree of manipulation. Another method, which generally succeeds, is maldng a free sub- cutaneous incision through the synovial membrane and cartilage, and applying a blister over the part, where it is retained by a compress and bandage. Oelatinotis Degeneration of tJie Synovial Mcmh'ane. ^. The synovial membrane is liable to a process of morbid nu- trition, which changes its natural structure into a soft grayish-