PRINCIPLES OF SURGRRY. 544 tion cannot be performed well with forceps alone, as the want of cohesion in the morbid structure prevents them from removing any more of the mass than what is actually embraced between their blades. Knives, scissors, and hooks are employed, but the best instrument for the purpose is a finger, which, being intro- duced into the expanded nostrils, feels where the pol}qpus is attached, and forces it away from the bone. The cavity, having been thus emptied, is stuffed with lint to stop the bleeding. The third and last kind of polypus that requii-es to be noticed is remarkably distinguished by the extreme firmness of its tex- ture, which nearly equals tendon in strength. It is distinctly fibrous, and has hence been named the Fibrous Polypus. It bleeds profusely when injured, increases without any limit, descendmg into the pharynx, and proceeding beyond the external orifice of the nose, and ultimately proves fatal by causing hemor- rhage, suffocation, or pressure on the brain, It almost always exists singly, and occurs chiefly in young adults of the male sex. M. Dupuytren, who first remarked the peculiarities of tliis fibrous structure, supposes that it frequently exists as an antecedent of the medullary or brain-like polypus, into wliich it degenerates, first at the part most distant from its root, and ultimately throughout its whole extent. It may be stated, however, on the evidence of extensive observation, that the soft kind of growth often (so far as I have seen, always) disj)lays its proper charac- ters from the commencement; and there are cases on record in which the fibrous polypus retained its distinctive firmness of texture after existing for years, and attaining a great size. It seems to adhere to the bone, but not to depend on any diseased condition of that tissue, so that if torn out by the root it may be permanently removed. This method has been recommended by Dupuytren as the only mode of effectual treatment. Sometimes it distends the antrum, maxillarc,—and, having caused absorp- tion of the walls of the cavity, protrudes under the cheeks, where it may be exposed by dividing the mucous membrane of the mouth, and seized with forceps. The instruments for this purpose should be very strong, and provided with numerous