321 THORAX. and wMte dense texture approaching to a granular consistence, and containing small cells filled with semifluid matter. The distinction between this and the more diffused form of carcinoma should be carefully observed, as it affords some assistance in deciding on the prognosis as to the duration of recovery after the tumour has been removed. When the lymphatic glands suffer carcinomatous degeneration, the morbid structure always assumes the capsular form, unless the disease should be very far advanced, and adhesions to the neighbouring parts have taken place. In this case radiating bands may be discovered, but hardly with the same distinctness that they usually present themselves, when the disease originates in the substance of the mamma. The cure of carcinoma, whether in the state of scirrhus or cancer, by external or internal remedies, being confessedly im- practicable, it does not seem necessary to mention the various means that have been ineffectually employed for this purpose. Leeching, soothing fomentations, and attention to the general health, alleviate the ujieasy sensation of scirrhus, and delay its progress towards ulceration. Poultices of hemlock, and Fowler's solution of arsenic, diminish the agonising pain of cancer. Solu- tions of chloride of lime or soda destroy the fetor which proceeds from its discharge; and more or less temporary amendment results from the application of various ointments, powders, and washes, which can never be prescribed with any certainty of benefit, and must be frequently changed to obtain even the slight and transitory improvement that they at best afford. The usual method of giving relief is to remove the morbid structure with the knife, the depth and connections of the affected parts rendering other means of extirpation, such as caustic and the ligature, seldom admissible. Few questions in surgery have occasioned more discussion than that which has been, and still is; agitated in regard to the propriety of operating. It is ad- mitted that relapse frequently occurs after excision has been performed; bui much difference of opinion exists as to the chance of its doing so, and tlie consequent advantage of tlie Y