480 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. ing it could be done witliout mischief, would be of no use in remedying the derangement of the structure of the cord. The patient, therefore, should be treated as if he had merely suffered concussion or compression. Symptoms of inflammation should be checked—the discharges from the rectum and bladder duly maintained—and if the immediate danger is surmounted, the means proper for subduing chronic disease at the injured part, should it be required, or for rousing the energies of the limbs, in case they remain defective in their power, must be carefully employed. The only disease of the spinal marrow, that affords subject of surgical practice, is that sort of Spina Bifida in which the ner- vous parts are perfectly formed, but the membranes are dis- tended with fluid so as to protrude through the aperture of the spine, and constitute an external tumour. The integuments at \; the part, which is usually the lumbar or sacral region, are gene- rally thin, livid, and adherent This disease is often associated with other congenital malformations, adverse to the duration of life, but when existing by itself, is not necessarily fatal. The thin parietes of the tumour sometimes ulcerate, so as to form a minute orifice, which, opening from time to time, allows the fluid to escape, and thus at length completes the cure. In imitation of this natural process, small punctures have been made with a needle (Sir A. Cooper), pressure being afterwards xarefull)'- exer- cised, and the practice has occasionally proved successful. It is evident that the circumstances are here much more favourable for recovery after puncture than in the case of dropsy within the cranium, since the membranous nature of the sac which contains the water permits it to be readily compressed. The operation may also be rendered more effectual by injecting the tincture of iodine. Injuries and Diseases of (lie Nerves. Wlien a nerve is divided, the part to which it is distributed is immediately deprived of sensation and voluntary motion, and also suffers a diminution in the energy of its vital action, the