ABDOIIEN. 331 Paracentesis Abdoviinis. The abdomen is punctured for the removal of dropsical col- lections of serous fluid in the cavity of the peritoneum, and for the evacuation of cysts developed in the ovary, which grow so larse as to occasion distension of the abdomen. The circum- stances of these diseases, which denote the propriety of paracen- tesis, need not be considered here; and it will be sufficient to explain the mode of performing the operation. The instruments employed for this purpose consist of a trocar and canula. The point of the trocar may be either in the form of a three-sided pyramid, or have a flattened heart-shaped figure with two cutting edges. The canula of the former is round, that of the latter flat; the first is generally employed, and ought to be preferred, especially in cases of ovarian dropsy, where the fluid is often very thick and viscid. In introducing the three- sided instrument, it was formerly the custom to make a pre- liminary incision through the integuments with a scalpel; but this is quite unnecessary, and the fiat one may of course be still more readily j)ushed through the whole of the parietes at once. Two situations have been chiefly selected for the operation— one in the linea alba, about an inch below the umbilicus ; the other in the linea semilunaris, at a point between, and equidis- tant from, the umbilicus and superior anterior spinous process of the ilium. The former of these ought certainly to be preferred, since there is here no danger whatever of wounding either the vessels or viscera,—while, in endeavouring to puncture through the linea semihmaris, the surgeon runs a risk of injuring the epigastric artery, which, owing to the iinequal resistance of the anterior and lateral portions of the abdominal parietes to the force of distension, alters its relation to these points. If it should ever be desired to puncture in this situation, the safest plan is to introduce the instrument at the distance of a hands- breadth from the crest of the ilium, in the course of a line ex- tending from the spinous process to the umbilicus.