2tt PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY violence ; and inexperienced practitioners are consequently apt to commit the mistake of treating with rough measures a case that requires those of the most soothing sort. The best guide in avoiding this too common error is afforded by the trochanter major, which, when dislocation really exists, will be found by measurement to be more distant from the anterior spinous process of the ilium than its fellow is on the other side. The reduction is accomplished by extending and counter-extending the thigh and pelvis transversely, while the foot of the affected limb is carried inwards under the sound one. The dislocation forwards on the pubis is caused by the body being suddenly bent baclovards, while the foot is fixed and the limb is kept straight by the strong involuntary action of its extensor muscles. The symptoms are slight shortening, eversion of the toes, and the head of the bone being felt distinctly rolling under the integuments of the gi'OLn. The reduction is performed by extending downwards and backwards, while the patient lies on Ms soimd side, and then drawing the upper pai"t of the tliigh outwards, so as to lift the head of the femur over the acetabulum. It has often been a question at how great a length of time after the dislocation reduction may be effected. I have suc- ceeded at the end of seven and nine weeks ; but, in using force at a more distant period, should have little hope "of success, and some fear of doing harm, by deranging the process by which the displaced bone becomes accommodated to its new position. Knee-joint.—The patella may be dislocated laterally by direct violence, and this accident is most apt to happen when the parts concerned are in the relaxed state, which results from sudden removal of a dropsical effusion into the joint. The dislocation is very readily recognised, and admits of easy remedy, by bend- ing the thigh upon the pelvis while the knee is straight, so as to relax the extensor muscles completely, and then pressing the patella into its proper place. The tibia and fibula are so strongly connected with the femiu-, that they very seldom suffer dislocation. In consequence of a violent wrench to one side, there is sometimes a laceration of one