PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEllY. 124 Axillary Aneurism. Next to the ham and groin, the axilla is the most common seat of spontaneous external aneurism. It generally begins in the form of a small circumscribed tumour, formed by the external coat of the artery, and after increasing for a time gradually, suddenly enlarges upon rupture of the sac. It then not only fills the axillary cavity, but projects beyond it. The first attempt to cure the disease in this situation by operation was made by PeUetan (1786), who proposed to divide the clavicular origin of the Pedoralis major, and thus expose the subclavian artery where it passes out below the clavicle. His colleagues withheld their consent, and would sanction only a dive with the needle after the integuments were divided. Tliis ineffective and dangerous attempt was tried, and of course proved unsuccessful. Mr. Keate afterwards succeeded by executing the proposal of Pelletan (1800) so far as regarded the division of the pectoral muscle, but he also then plunged his needle in search of the artery. Mr. Chamberlayne operated more properly (1815) by dividing the muscle, and then dissecting down to the vessel. This operation is difficult, owing to the depth of parts—the troublesome hemorrhage proceeding from branches of the thoracica humeraria that lie in the way—the subclavian vein overlapping the artery—and the close proximity of the large nerves going to form the axillary plexus, which are apt to impose upon the surgeon, and be mistaken for the artery. It is also seldom admissible, owing to the height to which the disease generally extends upwards. The best mode of performing it, would be to make an incision along the lower margin of the clavicle, from the coracoid process to near the sternum, and then another about the same length, proceeding downwards from the acromial extremity of the former, in the direction of the space^ between the deltoid and pectoral muscles. The clavicidar origin of the latter being then divided, and any arterial, branch that bleeds considerably having been tied, the surgeon dissecting down