PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 92 to the distending force of tlie blood, and the effect of any vital contractile power resident in the arterial tissue. That the arteries do possess such a power cannot be denied, since during life, and even for some time after death, at least after the extinction of sensation, they contract much beyond the Hmit determined by their elasticity, whenever they are freed from the distension of their contents. The internal coat is distinguished by its thinness and smoothness; it is probably lubricated by a secretion from its own surface,—and resembles the membranes which line the cavities of the body, whence it is named the Serous coat. All of these coats are vascular, and capable of perfoi-ming the actions, whether healthy or morbid, which are exercised by the nutritious system of other parts ; but the internal one is most subject to disease, and generally seems to be the source of altera- tions from the healthy structure, when they occur in the other constituent parts of the vessel. The actions which take place in it most frequently and readily, are effusion of lymph, and diseased nutrition. Effusion is induced as an immediate effect of various local irritations, such as pressure or wounds ; on which circimistance are founded the various methods of obstructing arteries that have been proposed in the treatment of disease. It is ascertained from experiments made on dogs and horses, that, if an artery be sub- jected for some hours to the pressure of a tight bandage encircling the limb, the canal of the vessel sometimes becomes impervious. This effect results more surely when the sides of the artery itself are directly compressed; and Dr. Jones discovered, that, when the internal and middle coats are divided, lymph is effused so copiously that obstruction frequently ensues, though the con- striction be not continued after the division is effected. Desault had ingeniously contrived to do this by tying the vessel tightly with a fiiTH roTind ligature, which, making no impression on the tough external coat, but dividing the soft yielding ones within, could be removed so as to leave the former entire, and the latter completely cut. Various attempts have been made to obliterate the arteries of the human subject by such means. Assalini em-