PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 494 unless subjected to imi^roper pressure, occasions no further in- convenience. Small Exostoses occasionally grow from the distal phalanx of the great toe, and also, but very seldom, from those of the other toes. They generally form a tumour under the edge or extremity of the nail, and sooner or later seriously uiij)ede the use of the foot. The nail, if necessaiy, having been removed, an incision should be made, first on one side, and then on the other, so as to embrace the root of the growth, and divide the soft parts covering it, after which it may be readUy detached by the cutting-pliers. Onychia is an obstinate ulcer seated in the vascular struc- ture that lies under the nail, and envelopes its root. It is of small size at first, but gradually spreads so as to engage the whole extent usually covered by the naU. The surface is brown and glossy, the discharge excessively fetid, and the pain intense. The nail is formed very imperfectly, and either remains dry, black, and loosely adherent, or presents merely a small vestige of its root, which is thick, white, soft, and connected by a broad base with its secreting matrix. The surrounding skin is tense and inflamed, and, in cases of long standing, the texture of the subjacent bone is sometimes greatly expanded. This disease occurs most frequently in chUdren, but is met with at all periods of life, and in the fingers -much more fre- quently than in the toes.- It is occasionally referred to local injury, but perhaps always in some measure depends on derange- ment of the general health. After being established, however, it exists as an independent disease, and can hardly be remedied by means that operate on the system. The treatment requires, in the first instance, that the naU should be completely removed, and then that the ulcer should be touched with caustic potass, poultices being afterwards applied until the slough separates, wliile means are at the same time employed to improve the general health. Paronychia, or Wliitlow, denotes an acute inflammation of the finger, generally resulting from local irritation operating on