BONES. 217 clistiuguishing it from the morloid portion. If extensive and deeply seated, it is best removed by taking away the whole of the articulating extremities concerned, as will be explained here- after when the diseases of the joints are considered. When the situation of the caries prevents it from being cut out, amputa- tion ought, if possible, to be performed ; and if this be imprac- ticable, the disease will sooner or later prove inevitably fatal. Exostosis. The term Exostosis is employed to denote various morbid conditions of the osseous system differing materially from each other, and has consequently occasioned great confusion. In order to avoid this, it ought to be coniined in its meaning to imply an tmnatural growth of bone. Exostosis in this sense ex- hibits three remarkable varieties in respect of its structure; being sometimes solid, at other times hollow, and also not unfrequently spicular or foliated—that is, composed of radiating points or plates. The first of these lands of exostosis exists independently of any other disease, but the two others are connected with, and dependent upon, different morbid formations, along with which they may more properly be considered. The first, which may be called the simple or solid exostosis, consists of a mass of osseous substance growing out of a bone naturally belonging to the skeleton. It is sometimes thin and flat, rising gradually from the surrounding surface, and not caus- ing any sharp projection, when it is named a Node—an appella- tion which is also used to designate a similar swelling dependent on chronic thickening of the periosteum. In other cases it forms a projecting excrescence, the neck of which is usually narrow in proportion to the extremity. The substance composing such ex- crescences is of various solidity, being sometimes open and spongy, at others more dense and compact. The bones most frequently thus affected are the femur, tibia, humerus, and distal phalanx of the great toe. It may appear at any age, but, for the most part, does so about the time of puberty. The inconvenience which this sort of exostosis occasions