PRINCIPLES OF SUIiGEIlY. 530 also derived from touching the ulcer with nitrate of silver, or the sulphate of copper, in order to destroy its morbid sensibility. Cancer of the tongue is occasionally met with chiefly at advanced periods of life, but also not unfrequently at an earlier period. It is attended with the usual characters of hardness and pain, and leads to similar disease of the glands of the neck. The only remedy is extirpation, and this unfortunately can sel- dom be effected with advantage, owing to the diffusion of the morbid tendency. When the cancer is seated on the apex or edge of the tongue, it may be safely cut out with the knife or scissors, after being grasped and forcibly stretched by means of a hook or hooked forceps. But the result of experience forbids almost any hope of effecting permanent relief by extirpating cancer even of this part, and, of course, if possible still less when the disease is seated further back. The Frainum of the tongue is sometimes originally formed so as to present the appearance of a narrow white band when the apex is turned backwards, and more or less impedes the motions of the organ. This imperfection is easily remedied by cutting the edge of the tight frsenum, and then rupturing the remaining part of it as far as seems necessary, by pushing the tongue back- wards. When children are late of beginning to articulate, whether this be owing to mental weakness or any other cause, the relatives are apt to suppose that the frsenum is confining the tongue, and it is necessary to be cautious in acceding to their wish of having it divided, as the raninal arteries might be opened by making an incision for this purpose in a natural state of the parts. The tongue is liable to a general enlargement of both a chronic and an acute nature. The former occurs in children; and, indeed, is probably always congenital, although apt to be overlooked at an early stage. It gradually increases until the organ may be so enormously enlarged as to protrude from the mouth to the extent of several inches, with a con-esponding degree of thickness and breadth, so that the teeth are displaced, and the jaw even becomes altered in shape. The treatment