136 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEEY. the morbid action thus instituted is apt to follow its characteristic tendency to spread. John Hunter shewed that many of the bad consequences of venesection, which used to be referred to pricks of the nerves or tendons, really depended on the wound not heal- ing, and the veins inflaming. It is of great consequence to notice that the tendency to venous inflammation varies with the state of the system ; so that while very slight causes may prove suffi- cient to induce it, very severe ones may fail in doing so. Thus in crowded hospitals or other unliealthy situations, a large pro- portion of operations terminate fatally from inflammation of the veins ; and wherever erysipelas abounds, phlebitis is apt to be associated with it. With regard to the treatment, it must be admitted, that when the inflammation is acute, and attended with much constitutional disturbance, it hardly yields to any remedy. In such cases, therefore, the prognosis shotdd be very unfavourable. General bleeding seems to do no good ; and, on the contrary, rather to in- crease the irritability of the system, which more requires calomel and opium. Local bleeding and fomentations are useful when the inflammation is acute. Warm solutions of acetate of lead with opium, and the tinctura saponis mm opio with camphorated mercurial ointment, and the pressure of a flannel bandage, con- stitute the best local applications when the affection is chronic. Wounds of Veins. When veins are cut across, their orifices are closed by the same process which effects the obstruction of arteries in similar circumstances ; and the smaller moving force of their contents favours this occurrence on one side of the aperture, while the valves stiU more effectually prevent any disturbance of the ad- hesive process at the other. If the vein concerned is one of the great trunks, and devoid of valves for preventing a retrograde motion of the blood, pressure ought to be preferred to ligature for restraining its hemorrhage, and a veiy slight resistance will be found sufficient. When veins are not divided, but merely wounded through a part of their circumference, they do not