154 PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY, cauteries ;—tlie application of ammonia also seems to have some effect in preventing it from producing its cliaracteristic effects ; 2. Applying a tight ligature on the limb to compress the veins and other absorbent vessels ; and 3. To direct the current of the fluids towards, instead of from, the injured part, by causing suction over it, which may be affected with the mouth, or a cup- ping-glass. One or other of these proceedings may be trusted to chiefly, according to circumstances, but in severe cases it is proper to combine the operation of the whole. The general remedies are such as tend to prevent sinking, by creating a sort of artificial strength through their stimulating property. Ammonia, given pure or in the state of carbonate, with spirits, and warm water, sufficient to make the mixture palatable, ought to be administered every five minutes. Arsenic has been strongly recommended also, as a remedy in such cases ; and although it might be difficult to account for its salutary operation, the facts in proof of it are so striking and well authenticated, that when circumstances permit, this means should certainly be combined with the others. The arsenite of potass, or Fowler's solution, is the most convenient preparation for the purpose, and it has been said that very large doses, even to the extent of two drachms, may be given every liaK hour. The morbid poisons originating in diseased action, which affect the human species, may all be produced by the human body ; ,but two of them, cow-pox and hydrophobia, were in the first instance derived from the lower animals. They exist both in the liquid and in the gaseous state. In the former they hardly act imless inserted or inoculated into the texture of the body. In the latter, they produce their effects when received into the lungs dui-ing inspiration. It is only the first or inocu- lated poisons which belong to. the sm-gical department. They always occasion more or less initation of the part to which they are applied, and generally afterwards more or less constitutional disturbance. Their modus operandi is not at aU Icnown. Tliey seldom cause any immediate local alteration ; and days, or even weeks, may elapse before there is any indication of their action.