449 GENITAL OEGANS. The disease is almost always a liydrocele in the first instance, and the histoiy usually given of it is, that after the ordinary serous fluid had been drawn off, the swelling returned very rapidly, and upon being tapped again, was found to be filled with the dark-coloured contents above described. In cases of old standing, numerous small scales are observed floating in the fluid, and these when collected are ascertained to consist of cholesterine. Dr. Bostock has suggested, with apparent proba- bility, that they are not the direct result of secretion, but the product of a chemical change taking place in the effused fluid, similar to that by which adipocire is formed from flesh when subjected to long maceration in water. The same sort of scales are found in old collections of albuminous fluid in other parts of the body, and no doubt proceed from the same source. The tunica vaginalis is always very much thickened, sometimes of almost cartilaginous hardness throughout, and occasionally soft and pulpy on its inner surface. I minutely injected the vessels of a htematocele which had been ascertained, by a puncture pre- viously, to be still capable of reproducing the bloody contents, but did not find the shghest extravasation or appearance of rup- ture, either fi'om disease or injury. The remedy of hematocele, as of hydrocele, may sometimes be accomplished by the injection of iodine; but in general thick and diseased tunica vaginalis requires to be laid freely open, or removed in part if very large. The woimd should be dressed with diy lint after the vessels have been tied. Con- siderable constitutional disturbance may be expected ; but, under proper treatment, it seldom proves excessive. Suppura^- tion being induced, the granulating process soon brings the sides of the wound together, and completes the cure. Cirsocele. The veins of the testicle, which enter into the formation of the spermatic cord, are subject to varicose enlargement, parti- cularly on the left side. The vessels become greatly dilated, thickened in their coats, and extremely tortuous. There is thus 2 0