517 EYE. sionally with nitrate of silver, or concentrated sulphuric acid, or shaving away a portion at once with curved scissors, are the means usually employed. If the eyelid is preternaturaUy relaxed, a V-shaped piece may be cut out of it, and the edges then united together by one or two pins; and if the edge is drawn outwards by a cicatrix of the integuments, the contraction should, if possible, be cut out, so that the lips of the wound may be united together directly. Encanthis is a tumour which sometimes presents itself at the inner angle' of the eyelids. It has a fleshy consistence, and tubercular surface. The colour is generally pale red, but some- times very dark, and almost black. It grows from the caruncula laclmjmaliSy and by its pressure not only causes a disagreeable deformity, but impedes vision, and also the motion of the eye- lids. The remedy consists'in excision, which may be performed either with a knife or scissors, care being taken to stretch the attachments of the tumour, by pulling it out with a hook or forceps, so as to prevent any chance of cutting the lachrymal ducts, which lead from the puncta to the sac. Encysted tumours are often met with in the eyelids, particu- larly the upper one. They are sometimes seated immediately under the skin, and may be removed by dividing it to the requisite extent, and then dissecting out the cyst. Much more frequently they lie deeper, and adhere to the mucous lining of the eyelid, which is discovered by their immobility, and the appearance presented by the inner surface of the eyelid when it is brought into view by being everted. The part with which the tumour is connected has a yellowish colour, streaked with red, from the arborescence of vessels over it, and seems flatter than the neighbouring surface. In this case the extirpation could not be accomplished by cutting externally without making a breach through the eyelid, and the proper method is, to remove an ellip- tical portion of the sac from within and squeeze out its contents. The best v/ay of doing this is to evert the eyelid, transfix the sac with a hook, and then cut out a portion of it with a sharp-pointed knife.