83 DISEASED NUTRITION. filled to express simply the fact of there being a fungous pro- tnision from wliicli blood issues. Medullary sarcoma, in its advanced stage, is attended with a greenish-yellow complexion, and general emaciation. If allowed to proceed, it sooner or later destroys the patient by gradual ex- haustion. The rapidity of its course, like that of carcinoma, is extremely variable, and cannot be foretold according to any data with which we are as yet acquainted. The treatment of tliis dis- ease is, in general, very unsatisfactory. All local applications and internal remedies are admitted to be totally useless, and the only mode of affording relief is excision; while, owing to the tendency of the morbid action to diffuse itseK into the neighbour- ing parts, whatever be their nature or texture, as well as the taint, or unhealthy disposition of the system, the operations for this purpose are very often followed by relapse. Unless, how- ever, the case does not permit complete ablation of the tumour, or there should be indications of the disease existing in other regions of the body, or the pulse is quickened by the local krita- tion—in wliich case, so far as I have observed, recovery hardly ever follows an operation—it is the duty of the surgeon to give the patient the benefit of the chance that is thus afforded ; and, of course, the sooner that this is done the better, after the nature of the malady has been ascertained. The prospect of permanent relief seems most favourable when the disease is seated in the testicle or bones, and most hopeless when the eyeball is affected. Nearly connected with this kind of growth is that which has been named Melanosis. The title was applied by Laennec to tumours possessing the same soft brain-like structure, but differ- ing in regard to their colour, which, instead of being white, was either dark brown, or black. In other respects, the diseases resemble each other so closely as hardly to require separate designations, affecting the same parts, following the same course, and requiring the same treatment. It may be remarked, how- ever, that the morbid tendency, as shewn by extension, repro- duction, or simultaneous formation at distant parts of the body, is not, in general, nearlyso active in the melanotic as in