240 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. and then bending the fore-arm, while the surgeon, embracing the. elbow with his hands, so tliat the fingers rest on the olecranon, and the thumbs on the extremity of the humerus, pushes the displaced bones into their proper position. The radius is liable to be dislocated separately, and may be driven either forwards or backwards. In the latter case, the dis- placement is so obvious from the tumour which is caused by the head of the bone, that it can hardly be overlooked ; but in the former, which is the more common of the two, the nature of the accident is very apt to escape detection until it is too late to afford relief The symptoms are pain and swelling about the elbow, which is half-bent, and allows a slight degree of flexion and extension ; any attempt to increase the former being attended with a sudden snap or catch, owing to the head of the radius, which lies over the coronoid process of the ulna, strildng against the humerus. I have seen in one case the flexion continue quite free. The form of the fore-arm is altered, being round, instead of flat from side to side. "Wlaen the hand is rotated, the radius is felt rolling under the origin of the flexor muscles, and a cavity is perceived where its head ought to be. Both forms of this accident result either from direct violence sustained on the elbow, or from falls on the hand. The reduction is very easy if performed early, and requires merely that the hand should be extended while pressui'e is made on the head of the bone, and the elbow is bent. The extending force is made to act on the hand, in order to concen- trate it as much as possible on the radius; since, if acting on the ulna, which has not been displaced, it could not do any good. Lateral dislocations of the elbow are occasionally met with, and when examined early may in general be easily recognised by the alteration of shape and direction of mobility which attend them. The reduction is effected chiefly by coaptation, and is not difficult, unless the parts concerned have been allowed to become rigid and adherent. Wrist-joint.—The wrist often appears to be dislocated, owing to the swelling and immobility which it suffers in consequence