255 JOINTS. seems objectionable on several grounds, since inflammation may thus be very easily overlooked, and allowed to proceed the length of suppuration before it is discovered ; and if things go on well, it is obvious that in a very short time the diminution of the swcllincf must render the bandage loose and inef&cient. The joint should always be restrained from motion by a splint, which may be made of leather or pasteboard, or iron wire, covered with chamois leather. The last-mentioned splint, which I have found extremely useful in treating affections of the joints, may be easily constructed by bending a piece of strong wire to the shape of the limb, so as to extend along both sides of it—and then joining as many pieces transversely as seem necessary to give sufficient strength—after which the apparatus merely requires a leather covering, between the layers of which some cotton or other soft substance may be placed. When suppvu'ation ensues, free vent ought to be afforded to the matter. Stimulating washes should be applied to the sinuses, and moderate pressure still carefully continued, together with, if possible, even more rigid abstinence from motion. If the patient's strength proves inadequate to support the profuse and long-continued discharge which is apt to result, he must be re- lieved by amputation, or excision of the diseased bone. It might be thought that the diseased synovial membrane would oppose the completion of a cure, even after the carious bone was eradi- cated, but experience has proved this to be not the fact; and all trace of the morbid structure in question soon disappears during the suppuration which succeeds the operation. Ulceration of the Cartilages of the Joints. The cartilages which cover the surfaces of articulation are often found to be destroyed more or less completely, becoming in some cases merely thinner than usual—in some rough and irregularly abraded—and in others detached from the bone, so as to lie in their natural situation, but nearly or altogether loose. These changes arc ascribed to a process of absorption in the car- tilages, commencing either on the surface of the synovial mem-