ABDOMEN. 341 abdominal fascije to whicli it is connected. The hernial tumour is then to be grasped at its neck, and compressed with the points of the fingers and thumb, which at the same time pull it slightly out- wards. The size of the parts at the ring having been thus dimin- ished, the pressure is to be directed gently but steadily upwards, in the direction of the inguinal canal. When, in consequence of this proceeding, the slightest gurgle is heard or felt, or the size of the swelling is perceptibly diminished, the reduction, in general, may be very soon completed. The larger the hernia is, the more may be expected from this manipulation, and vice versa. There is almost always some serous effusion iuto the cavity of the sac, and in small tumours, especially those of recent production with acute symptoms, the bulk of the fluid bears a large propoii;ion to that of the intestine or omentum. External pressure, conse- quently, however carefully employed, cannot possibly have its effect confined to the neck or any other portion of the stran- gulated parts, since, through the medium of the fluid, its force must be diffused over the whole surface, and therefore urge the entire mass against the narrow aperture by which it is required to retui-n.' WMle circumstances are thus opposed to the bene- ficial influence of pressure from without, it is obvious that the small size of the protrusion, which is often not larger than the point of the finger, and seldom exceeds that of a walnut in most cases, will afford little resistance to an effort in the opposite direction. It accordingly often happens that after the Taxis has failed, the tumour suddenly, and, as it seems, spontaneously dis- appears, no doubt through the operation of some internal change in the condition of the bowels or omentum. Such being the case, in the event of the Taxis failing, it is obviously proper to use means that may produce some effect of the kind reqxxisite for withdrawing the protruded parts into the abdominal cavity. Of these may be mentioned a change of posture, by elevating the pelvis and bending the shoulders back- wards, in order to make a drag on the strangulated viscera, to- gether with the administration of enemata to evacuate the intestines, and thus lessen the resistance to return. Bleeding