265 JOINTS. a fortniglit before with a violent iuflammatiou in his left shoulder, which threatened a mortification, but at last temiinated in a large abscess, which was opened with a lancet a few days before his admission." Through this opening, and another that had formed spontaneously under the acromion process, the os humeri could be felt and seen " totally divested of its bursal ligament." Mr. White made an incision from the acromion process half- way down the arm, protruded the end of the bone through the opening thus obtained, and sawed it off. At the end of two months he found that a large piece of the remaining bone had become loose, and easily removed it with a pair of forceps. The patient was perfectly cured at the end of four months from the operation. The arm was then not quite an inch shorter than the other, and he had the perfect use of it. In a work published ^thirty-two years ago, ijexpressed my persuasion that this was not a case of caries, as it had generally been regarded, but one of acute necrosis ; and the following very curious companion to it, at a more advanced stage, seems strongly corroborative of that opinion. Tliomas Cairns, aged 13, was admitted into the Infirmary on the 30th of June 1833, on account of a great enlargement of the right shoulder, attended with pain and discharge of matter. It was stated that, ten menths before, he had fallen from a wall about four feet high among loose stones, and afterwards had been pretty severely handled by a bone-sf ttpr^ who alleged that the humerus was broken near the joint. Inflammation and suppuration fol- lowed, openings for the discharge of matter took place at various •parts, the joint became stiff, and the patient's strength declined. In these circumstances, he was sent to be under my care. As it was impossible to obtain any satisfactory information in regard to the condition of the joint by introducing a probe, I enlarged the sinues that led most directly towards it sufficiently to admit my finger, with the point of which the bone was felt bare. The firmness of the surrounding parts prevented a more free examination, but the information thus gained, together with * Treatise on the Excision of Diseased Joints, 1831.