INFLAMMATION. 9 giushed; for which piu'pose the terms Acute and Chronic are employed to denote the two extremes of violence, while the in- termediate degrees are indicated by qualifying epithets. Acute inflammation frequently passes into the chronic ; hut the latter often exists independently and originally. When the inflamma- tion is acute, it terminates one way or another in a few days at furthest, and sometimes even in a few hours ; but when chronic, it may exist for weeks or months with little change. With acute inflammation there is almost always accompanying fever; but with chronic hardly any. Causes of Inflammation. The causes of Inflaromation, or circumstances which give rise to this morbid state, are very numerous and various. They may be divided into those which act directly on the part affected, and those which do so through the medium of the system. The direct causes of inflammation, or local irritants, as they are usually called, comprehend all the natural stimuli of action when excessive in degree or continuance; various animal, vegetable, and mineral matters, such as cantharides, croton oil, and tartrate of antimony, which are named irritants from their effects; and every sort of violence, whether chemical or mechanical, which alters the structure of the body. The effect of these causes varies with the irritability or tendency to excited action of the part or patient. Parts are generally irritable in proportion to their vascidarity and sensi- bility. Thus the iris is more readily excited to inflammation than the cornea. But there are many exceptions to this rule; and particular tissues are most under the influence of particular irritations. The urinary bladder, for instance, is irritated by distension ; and the joints by forcible extension of their liga- ments. Parts occasionally become more irritable than usual. The circumstance of having been previously irritated sometimes renders them so. Weakness or diminished power of action, also, as from interruption of either the nerves or blood-vessels, or any other cause, contrary to what one might expect, produces the