478 PRINCIPLES OF BUEGERY. quences, which may perhaps be accounted for by the thin ex- panded state of the cerebral substance, but the progress of the case is usually accelerated rather than checked. Injuries and Diseases of the Spinal Canal and its Contents. The spinal cord is Kable to concussion from blows and falls, particularly the latter, the symptoms of which are similar to those of concussion of the brain, inasmuch as they denote sus- pension of the functions usually exercised by this part of the nervous system. As these consist chiefly in conduction of the impressions producing sensation and voluntary motion, the patient loses more or less completely the feeling and power of moving in all the portion of the body which is supplied with nerves originating from the spinal cord, below the part where it lias suffered from the external violence. The organ does not recover from this state of inaction so soon as the brain,—a day or two at least almost always elapsing before any well-marked sign of improvement is perceptible. It is probable that the cause of this may be a complication with effusion of serum, or blood, occurring in consequence of the injury, which, subse- quently undergoing absorption, allows the usual actions to be restored. In cases of this kind the treatment, ia the first instance, should consist merely of rest, and, if necessary, introducing the catheter to draw off the urine. The patient, though insensible to external stimuli, generally complains of uneasy feelings, sometimes amounting to intense pain, in the paralyzed part of his body ; and if the state of his pulse, or other symptoms, such as flushing of the face, tenderness of the back to pressure, etc., should indicate the commencement of inflammation, general and local bleeding, warm fomentations, and purgative injections, must be assiduously employed to arrest the morbid process. After the acute symptoms have been subdued, and also in cases where the injury has not been primarily followed by them, the patient sometimes makes very slow progress in regaining the powers he has lost. Counter-irritation by blistering, tartrate of