549 EAR. the tympanum, depending npou a deficient secretion of wax, also impairs the sense of hearing, and benefit in such circumstances is often derived from anointing the surface with some stimulat- ing ointment, as a mixture of axunge with a small proportion of oil of cloves, or any other of a similar kind. Inflammation and Suppuration of the Ear. Inflammation of the ear is generally induced by exposure to cold. It is attended with pain, more or less acute, and either confined to the ear, or extending tlirough the head. Pressure or motion of the auricle increases the patient's distress, and there is constitutional disturbance in proportion to the severity of the local complaint. The attack terminates in resolution or suppura- tion, the matter in the latter case being effused, either exteriorly to the membrane of the tympanum, or within it, so as to cause pressm'e and absoi-ption, for obtaining vent to escape. In the former case there is merely a running, which admits of cure without loss of hearing; but in the latter, there is apt to be caries of the temporal bone, and a permanent discharge, with partial or complete deafness. The treatment of the inflammatory state requires bleeding, cathartics, warm fomentations, and the antiphlogistic regimen. The chronic discharge of matter demands the injection of metallic washes, and blistering on the back of the neck. And when the bones are affected, the same means may be employed, but with an unfavourable prognosis. Recovery from this state sometimes occurs ; but more frequently the disease proves obsti- nate, and occasionally fatal, by leading to a morbid condition of the brain, particularly the formation of abscesses in its substance. Polypus of the Ear. Polypous excrescences are occasionally met with growing from the cavity of the ear, and protruding either through the external aperture, or an opening caused by absorption in the pos- terior wall of the canal. They usually possess a floiid colour, and vascidar structure. They are attended with a thin niuco-