EYE. 499 with distended veins, and of a livid hue, attention may still not be directed to the seat of the disease ; and when at length the pent-up matter gushes out, the organ is too frequently found irremediably injured. If the patient is seen during the inflammatory stage that precedes the purulent discharge, which usually does not extend beyond a day or two, a leech ought to be applied at one or both of the angles of the eyes, according to the age and strength of the child. Warm fomentations, and a frequent separation of the edges of the eyelids, are proper at the same time, due attention being bestowed on the secretions of the digestive organs. So long as symptoms of acute irritation continue, the same soothing system should be pursued; but when the disease begins to assume a chronic form, the solution of nitrate of silver ought to be employed ; and in the still more advanced stage, if it prove obstinate, a succession of blisters applied to the back of the neck greatly contributes to arrest the morbid action. A very violent purulent ophthahny is occasionally met with in adults who are affected with gonorrhoea. There are two opinions in regard to its production : one being that it depends on a metastasis of the disease from the urethra to the eye ; the other, that it proceeds from the irritation of matter casually introduced into the latter part. The former of these explana- tions seems very improbable ; but whatever be the causes of the inflammation, there can be no doubt that it is extremely violent and destructive, in general resisting the most active treatment, and terminating in the serious imperfection or total destruction of the eye as an organ of vision. Free and repeated general bleeding, leeching, and warm fomentations, should be used as early as possible; together with powerful cathartics and anti- monial diaphoretics. If the disease assumes a chronic form, the treatment that has been already explained will be proper. Ulceration of the cornea, or its conjunctival covering, is a very common consequence of inflammation. The ulcers are sometimes preceded by small superficial pustules, but more fre- quently appear without any such antecedent. They are usually