THEOAT. 293 on account of the difficulty wliicli has been experienced in ob- taining here a sufficiently large aperture without encroaching on the cartilages of the larynx. In opening the trachea near the sternum, the depth of the tube, which retreats backwards as it descends,—^the presence of the thyroid veins in the line of inci- sion, or even occasionally of the thyroidea ima artery,—and the transverse portion or isthmus of the thyroid gland, which often, especially in females and children, leaves hardly any accessible space below its inferior margin, are obstacles of no inconsiderable importance. The most convenient situation seems to be imme- diately below the cricoid cartilage. A sufficient portion of the trachea is here often left uncovered, and what more room is required may be gained by turning aside or dividing a little of the glandular substance. The bleeding from it should be allowed to cease before the trachea is opened. In performing the operation, there are required a scalpel, a couple of hooks, a sponge, and a tube of the flattened conical and slightly curved form, which has been found most convenient for the purpose, and of a size suited to the age of "the patient. It is well also to be provided with forceps and ligatures, in case of meeting with any arteries unusually large or irregularly distri- buted. The patient should be seated on a chair with his head bent back, and rested on the breast of an assistant. An incision, about an inch and a half long, is made as nearly as possible in the mesial line. The space between the sterno-hyoid muscles is recognised by its white appearance, and opened with the knife. The operator then feels for the lower margin of the cricoid carti- lage, or the trachea, and cuts down upon its rings, the surface of which having been exposed, serves as a guide for bringing into view what further space is reqviired for the opening, which should be about half an iiich long; and is readily effected by pushing in the loiife, while an assistant holds aside the muscles with a hook in each hand. Before wounding the trachea it is proper to wait a little until the arterial bleeding lias nearly ceased, or has been suppressed by ligature, should such means be required, wliich is seldom the case. But as the obstructed