PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 538 maxillary bone. The connection with the malar bone is next separated in the same way, and then the palate is divided, pre- viously to which one of the incisor teeth must be extracted it" necessary. The surgeon having now deprived the bone of all its principal attachments, wrenches it out. There is seldom much bleeding, and no advantage is obtained by tying the carotid pre- viously. The only vessels that req^uire to be tied are the facial and posterior palatine arteries, and the latter not always. The cavity of the cheek should be moderately filled with pieces of lint, and then the edges of the wound are brought carefully together by means of the silver sutures. The deformity wliich remains after the cure has been completed is very inconsiderable, and the jDatient is able to speak, eat, and swallow, with much less imperfection than might be expected. In the event of the cure proving permanent, an artificial substitute for the palate may be adapted to the cavity. Excision of the lower jaw is an easier and less formidable operation. The mode of performing it must be varied according to the size and situation of the tumour. It is usually either con- fined to one side of the bone, or engages one side more than the other. The base is the part most frequently affected, but the ramus is sometimes implicated, so as to reqvdre disarticulation. The best direction for the incision through the cheek is along the base as far as the tumour extends, and, if necessary, up along the posterior margin of the ramus to the condyle. The integu- ment having been separated from the tumour, the jaw is partially cut through with a smaU saw, and completely divided by strong cutting-pliers. The surgeon then grasping the detached portion turns it outwards, and separates its connections with the muscles and mucous membrane of the mouth. If the symphysis is included, means must be employed to prevent suffocation from the tongue being drawn back by the muscles of deglutition, owing to the power which kept it forward having ceased to act. As it is only for a minute or two that there is any risk of this occur- rence, the best mode of proceeding is to seize the tongue with a ihook, and confide it to an assistant until the tendency to retrac-