PELVIS. 391 allowed to separate the recently united edges of the wound, Adolent constitutional disturbance is almost sure to foUow. Another mode of treatment, though I fear inadequate to sub- due this disease in its most obdurate form, may be employed on ordinary occasions with the effect of accomplishing success more quickly than through gradual dilatation. This is to rupture the condensed part by separating the branches of a suitable in- strument introduced into the bladder. Ingenious instruments for this purpose have been invented at different times, and of late by Mr. Holt, who has strongly advocated this course of treatment. When the disease is complicated with fistula in perineo, the same treatment proves sufficient, as the sinuses, together with the callosities or induration surrounding them, speedily disap- pear after the obstruction which gave rise to them is removed. The iacisions, excisions, and cauterizations which were formerly practised, are therefore both' unnecessary and improper. But if the stricture require division on its own account, the presence of a fistulous condition will of coitrse afford no objection to this pro- cedure. If the urethra is altogether obstructed anterior to the fis- tula, so that even the smallest instrument cannot be passed through it, the only remedy is to introduce a catheter as far as the canal permits, and then cut down upon its extremity from the fistula, so as to allow its passage into the bladder. A flexible catheter should then be introduced, and allowed to remain for three or four days, to prevent the recent solution of continuity from heal- ing by primary union ; but it ought not to be left longer than this, as its presence wou.ld occasion a degree of irritation un- favourable to the cure by granulating contraction. If the in- strument is introduced occasionally, with the interval of a day or two, it will prevent any chance of the canal becoming again obstmcted, and not interfere with the process of reparation. Retention of Urine f rom Blows on the Perineum. Blows on the perineum are apt to occasion difficulty or total obstraction of the urinary evacuation. In some cases there is no solution of continuity effected by the violence, no wound of the