211 BONES. space left by the portion removed, but rather exceeding it in thickness. This experiment, when repeated, afforded the same results. " I next exposed the radius of another dog, and separated the periosteum from the bone as in the former experiment; but then, instead of cutting out the denuded bone, inserted a thin plate of metal between it and the periosteum. The edges of the membrane, and then those of the skin, were sewed together, and the wound healed Idndly. At the end of six weeks I dissected the limb, and found a deposition of osseous substance in the periosteum, forming a bony plate exterior to the metal, and not connected with the old bone except by the membrane. " I lastly exposed the radius of a dog, and cut away the perios- teum to the same extent that it had been merely detached in the experiment just mentioned, and surrounded the denuded bone with a piece of metal. At the end of six weeks I found a thick tough capsule formed, enclosing the metallic plate, but having no osseous substance in it. " The evidence which has now been adduced seems to me suffi- cient for putting beyond all question the power of the periosteum to form new bone, independently of any assistance from the old one. 1 submit it, with deference, to the Society, in the hope that those members who have directed their attention to the subject win give it their dispassionate consideration, and either admit the opinion which it supports, or shew the fallacy by which it has misled." The treatment of necrosis seldom admits of active measures on the part of the surgeon at its early stage. Abscesses should be opened when they point. Sequestra ought to be assisted to escape, and the patient's strength supported by nourishing diet, and the other usual means. If the death of the bone is so sudden and extensive, that the new shell is not able, in the first instance, to support the strain of the muscles and weight of the limb, splints must be carefully employed until the process of ossification is advanced far enough to render them unnecessary. Finally, in case the patient proves unable to bear the long-continued and exhaust-