PRINCIPLES OF SUUOERY. 94 fined to adults at or beyond middle age, having a bad habit of body. According to its extent and violence, the patient feels pain in the region of the vessels concerned, which is aggi-avated by pressure or motion, and attended with more or less fever. As, from the depth of the vessels, there is no external appearance of disease, these symptoms are usually referred to rheumatism, and medical aid is not required imtil inconvenience begins to be experienced from the obstruction in the circulation which ensues; at least such has been the case in nearly all the instances of this occurrence hitherto recorded. The impoverished limb becomes cold and numb ; and if stimulating means be employed to rouse the weakened actions, they readUy excite inflammation, which speedily runs on to gangrene and mortification. On dissection, the vessels are foimd contracted, thickened in their coats, and firmly plugged with a dense, brown, fibriaous coagulum. The internal coat is sometimes ruptured or irregularly lacerated, so as to impede the channel of the vessel Obstruction of the vessels with coagulum used to be considered a regular consequence of mortification; but it is now ascertained to be by no means a common occurrence ; and when it does happen, ought probably rather to be regarded as a cause than an effect of the mortifica- tion. The plugging is now generally ascribed to fibrinous clots, or excrescences detached from some other part of the cu'culating system, and impacted at the seat of obstruction. The cases of this Embolism, as it has been called, seem to be by no means rare; and may account for the sudden stagnation of blood which is observed in cases where there was no preceding inflammation, or any injury of the arterial coats discoverable on examination after death or amputation. Opportunity is seldom afforded to treat the primary inflam- mation, and its diagnosis would not be easy. In case of its being discovered sufficiently early, the proper remedies would be local bleeding and fomentations, with calomel and Opium given internally. After the obstruction is completed, which may be learned by the coldness, numbness, want of pulsation, and liistory of the case, the utmost care must be taken to protect the