468 PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. the saw. If the bone is not sufficiently exposed by the original injury, a crucial or triangular incision must be made through the scalp, the flaps of which are then to be dissected back. The pericranium is next scraped off sufficiently to prevent it. from impeding the teeth of the saw, which is applied at first with its centre pin protruded to keep it steady, and afterwards, when a groove has been formed, this obstacle to its progress is removed. The sawing must be conducted cautiously, as the skull is not always equally thick, and is often throughout very thin, with hardly any perceptible diploe. A tooth-pick, or probe, should be introduced from time to time, to ascertain whether or no the bone is perforated at any part of the circle; and when the whole seems to be nearly cut through, a levator or forceps may be employed to raise the detached piece. If circumstances appear to require the removal of more bone, the same means are to be repeated,—or tlie process may be accelerated, if the poi-tion is extensive, by Key's saw, as it is usually called, which proves convenient for connecting the circular apertures together so as to separate at once a large portion of the cranium. After the operation the wound is to be lightly dressed, and the general treatment conducted with the view of checking any tendency to inflammatory action. Cases admitting of this operation with any prospect of success are extremely rare, as the suppuration generally extends over a large surface of the membranes, or engages the substance of the brain, and I never knew an instance of its successful performance. Compression of the brain, when a consequence of external violence, is directly caused either by effusion of blood or by depression of the skull. In both cases the symptoms are the same, and denote suspension of the cerebral functions, more or less complete. The patient lies as if in a profound sleep; his breathing is stertorous ; his pulse slow and labouring; his pupils immovable, and in general dilated. He groans occasionally, winces under pressure applied to the injured part of his head, and frequently raises his hand to it. This state may continue, without suffering any material change, for a period of indefinite