EYE. 511 until the incision is completed, or at all events carried so far that the cornea is transfixed, since the danger of injuring the iris is not so great after this has been done. The hook should be exceedingly small and rectangular, or instead of it, a curved needle may be employed. The pupil ought not to be dilated, lest the vitreous humour escape. The patient should be seated or reclining, with his other eye covered. The eyelids are to be separated by a speculum, and the eyeball fixed by catch- forceps. The point of the knife is entered about the distance of a line from the margin of the cornea, a little above its trans- verse diameter on the temporal side, and pushed steadily through until it issues at the opposite corresponding part. If the iris comes in the way of the blade, gentle pressure is made upon the cornea; and when the membrane has thus been induced to withdraw itseK, the incision of the cornea is completed at an equal distance throughout from the margin. The eyelids are then allowed to close, in order to dilate the pupil. The hook is cautiously introduced under the flap, and directed into the cap- sule, which should be freely ruptured. The eyelids are again closed, and when they are opened a few seconds afterwards, the lens may probably be found lying in the wound, or exterior to it. If it does not soon appear, very gentle pressure may be made on the ball, with the intervention of the upper eyelid. But if any doubts are entertained as to the capsule being ruptured, or the aperture of the cornea being sufficiently large, it is much safer to remedy these defects of the operation by re-introducing the hook in the former case, and a knife or scissors in the latter, than to endeavour to compensate for them by forcibly compressing the eyeball. The after-treatment consists in confining the patient for several days to a dark room, enforcing the strictest antiphlo- gistic regimen, and employing, without loss of time, the most active means of subduing inflammation, if signs of it should appear. The operation of breaking up the texture of the lens may be performed either through the cornea (Keratonyxis), or through the sclerotic (Scleroticonyxis). In the former way, a small straight needle is the best instrament, and in the latter, if the