BONES. 181 to render the measure in question necessary, but it more frer quently happens that the surgeon is influenced by several or all of them in deciding on the operation. It will, of course, always be desirable to save the limb, but even when the circum- stances of the injury seem favourable for attempting this, if there is a want of proper attendance or other requisites for suc- cess, amputation should be decidedly preferred to endangering the patient's life. Partimlar Fractures. Hands and Feet.—The phalanges of the fingers and toes, o\ving to their shortness and mobility, are little subject to fracture. The injury, when it does occur, is readily recognised, and easily treated by means of a narrow wooden splint, padded with lint, and supported by a roller. In treating fracture of the proximal phalanx of the fingers, it is difficult to keep the bone straight in the extended position, owing to the efiiect of the flexors in drawing the broken ends downwards, and it will be found more convenient to fill the hollow of the hand with tow or some other soft material, and then bind down the fingers upon it. The metacarpal and metatarsal bones are more frequently broken, when there is little displacement, but considerable swelling, pain, and crepitus, with preternatural mobility of the corresponding finger or toe. A compress of tow, supported by a roller, pre- vents motion of the fractured extremities, which is all that the case requires. Bones of the Leg.—The fibula is apt to be fractured by twists of the foot outwards, and usually gives way from about an inch to an- inch and a half above its inferior extremity. The eversjon of the foot, and its mobility in a lateral direction, with the pain and crepitus caused by the broken surfaces, render the injury very distinct. The best mode of treatment is that devised by M. Dupuytren. It consists in placing on the inner side of the leg a thick cushion, to which, after having been secured in its place by means of a roller, a wooden splint, long enough to extend beyond both the foot and the knee, is fastened ; and then