BONES. 189 Of the bones of the fore-am the radius is most liable to be fractured, and generally gives way about an inch above the wrist. The accident is usually occasioned by falls on the palm of the hand. It is recognised by the ordinary characters of fracture, and is often rendered very obvious by the hand being bent in- wards, owing to the pronator radii quadratm drawing the broken extremities of the bone towards the ulna; or by the distal end of the radius being driven backwards so as to make the proximal one project under the integuments of the wrist. When there is little distortion the treatment requires merely the prevention of motion; and this is easily effected by applying a couple of splints and a bandage, which may be a simple roller, as it can be readily changed without deranging the fracture. When the hand is in- verted, it has been thought necessary to use some counteracting power on the same principle as for fractured fibula; but it is found sufficient to apply a couple of wooden splints narrower than the width of the arm, and long enough to reach from the elbow to the fingers, and thus have such a purchase on the hand as may prevent its inversion by the action of the muscles. The shaft of the ulna also is occasionally broken alone, but not nearly so frequently as the radius. The cause is violence acting directly on the injured part. There is generally little displacement; and the treatment is consequently very easy, re- quiring merely splints and a bandage. The olecranon is sometimes broken from the shaft of the bone by falls on the elbow. When the tough ligamentous covering of the process remains entire, the fragment suffers no displacement, and its lateral mobility is the only indication of the fracture, in addition to pain, swelling, and crepitus. But when this fibrous connection is ruptured, the triceps pulls up the detached olecranon to the distance of an inch or more from its proper place. This fracture, in several important respects, resembles that of the patella and neck of the femur; and, ac- cordingly, like them, is repaired by a fibro-cartilaginous medium instead of bone. With proper care, however, the broken sur- faces may be kept so near each other, that no inconvenience is