4G7 BRAIN. less extensive portion of the surface of the dura mater, which is separated from the bone, and altered both in colour and consis- tence, or the subjacent pia mater and substance of the brain. As the approach of this disorder is slow and insidious, while the means of checking it can be used with effect only in the com- mencement of its progress, all injuries of the head that can possibly give rise to it ought to be treated with care. The patient should for weeks abstain from every kind of excitement, and endeavour to preserve his secretions in the most healthy state. Quickness of the pulse, and headache, suggest free venesection, with the internal administration of tartrate of antimony, either alone or combined with the saline cathartics. If repeated rigors succeed signs of inflammation, and especially if the patient becomes insensible, it may be presumed that pus has been effused ; and the only chance of his recovery is afforded by perforating the cranium, so as to give the matter free vent, if it is lodged betAveen the bone and the dura mater. If not found there it may exist deeper, but incisions in search of it would be quite unwarrantable. PuiBness of the scalp, and a glassy dry appearance of the wound, if there be one, have been insisted upon as important indications of suppuration of the dura mater; but they often exist in cases where there is nothing of the kind, and, therefore, ought not to be confided in. The operation of perforating the skull is performed in this country with a Trephine or circular saw, to which the necessary rotatory motion is given by the hand. On the continent, an older instrument named the Trepan, which works like a carpenter's brace, is still in use; and it is difficult to understand how the latter should ever have given place to the former, the use of which renders the process much more tedious and laborious. The only objection that can be alleged against the trepan is, the risk of its injuring the dura mater or brain ; but the apprehen- sion of this rests entirely on theoretical grounds, as with mode- rate care any chance of such an occurrence may be prevented. The patient should be laid on a support, low enough to render it unnecessary for the operator to elevate his arms in working