Gi PRINCIPLES OF SURGHRY. When the patient is in great suffering—when there is reason to believe that the matter is forming under some thick fascia, or other covering that resists its progress to the surface—or when the matter appears to be diffused in the cellular substance—it is improper to wait for pointing, and it is impossible to make an opening too early. When the suppuration takes place in a gland, or any morbid structure, it is proper to let the abscess either open naturally, or at all events be completely formed before interfering with it. In other cases, so soon as the fluctua- tion can be distinctly perceived, and the abscess points, the opening should be effected. After the matter begins to form, and before it is evacuated, poultices and fomentations are applied, as they are believed to hasten the process of suppuration. Abscesses may be opened either by the knife or caustic. The former is infinitely less painful and more certain. The best in- strument for the purpose is either a straight or curved shai"p- pointed bistoury, which answers much better than the old- fashioned abscess lancet,—an instrument shaped like the common lancet, but of a larger size. The nan'ow blade of the bistouiy allows the point to enter the cavity with little pain, and then being pushed through the skin from within outwards, at the part to which it is desired the incision should extend, quickly com- pletes the aperture. If the parts to be divided are too thick for proceeding in this way, the knife may be carried through them dii'ectly to the requisite extent. It is always right to make a large opening; and, as a measure for determining its size, that of the part of the abscess which points may be taken, if it does not exceed an inch and a half or two inches. After the matter escapes, so far as it is induced to do so by the contraction of the parts containing it, a piece of lint should be placed between the lips of the wound to prevent them from uniting by the first intention; but care must be taken that it is not so thick or forcibly introduced as to confine the discharge, and consequently oppose the obliteration of the cavity. When the bleeding has ceased, a poultice should be applied, but not before, since a