PELVIS. 403 too much excitement be occasioned. The calculus, if it remain in the pelvis of the kidney, does not increase rapidly in size, as the urine, from passing away through the ureter immediately after being secreted, has little time to deposit the excess of solid matters which it may contain. Sometimes, however, the con- cretion of uric acid enlarges so as to occiipy the whole pelvis and infundibula, branching out like a piece of coral, or becomes incnisted with the triple phosphate. Much more freqi;ently the calculus remains of a small size, ranging from that of a pea to that of a field bean, of an oval figure, very similar to the stone of an olive, and smooth reddish-brown surface, in which the com- ponent grains may in general be distinguished. In some rare cases abscesses have been produced by the irritation of the kidney, and in others still more rare, the matter, by inducing absorption of the parietes of the abdomen, has made a passage outwards for the stone. Exaggerated reports of such occurrences have given rise to stories of renal calculi having been cut out, and ISTephrotomy has been seriously proposed by surgeons who think more of the execution than the consequences of opera- tions. "When the calculus descends into the ureter, unless of very- small size, it occasions great local pain, and sympathetic irritation of the abdominal viscera. The patient complains of intense pain •in the inguinal region of the affected side, about midway between the superior anterior spinous process of the ilium and the ^Dubis, which is greatly aggravated by pressure or motion. There is incessant nausea, and frequent bilious retching. The stream of urine pressing behind the calculus, and widening the passage, while it forces the obstructed body forwards, at length conveys it into the bladder, immediately upon which all the uneasiness is at once removed. This process of descent, which usually occu- pies from twelve to forty-ciglit hours, may be expedited and rendered less painful by administering from time to time doses of castor-oil, with the muriate of morphia, or other preparations of opium—by throwing opiate injections into the rectum—by placing the patient in a warm bath—and by bleeding from tlie