498 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. solution just mentioned is far more beneficial than any of these. Its most convenient strength seems to be obtained by dissolving- two grains in an ounce of rose-water, but many use it in a much larger proportion than this. Scarification of the inner surface of the eyelids was formerly much practised in the chronic state of inflammation, but is now seldom resorted to, as the relief it affords is generally of short duration. It is executed by everting the eyelid to be operated on, scratching it longitudinally in several places with a lancet, and wiping away the blood as long as it flows with a sponge or piece of Imt. Leeches produce most effect applied to the corners or angles of the eyes, particularly the inner one. In obstinate cases of chronic inflammation, when no permanent source of irritation can be discovered to exist, advan- tage is frequently derived from effecting cormter-kritation by blistering the back of the neck, or introducing a seton into it. Consequences of Inflammation of the Conjunctiva. A purulent discharge from the surface of the inflamed mem- brane occasionally occurs, and constitutes what has been named Purulent Ophthalmy. The inflammation, though probably com- mencing in the conjunctiva, and chiefly observable in it, gene- rally affects the other tissues of the eye, and is apt to prove veiy destructive, when allowed to pursue its course, by causing mor- bid adhesions, opacities, and ulcerations of the organ. It most frequently occurs in infants soon after birth, and in young children. Many explanations have been offered to account for its origin in the former of these, such as the existence of gonorrhoeal or leucorrhoeal disease in the mother at the time of birth; but careful observation of all the circumstances concerned leaves little doubt that the exciting causes are merely those which conduce to common inflammation, operating on a weakly or bad constitution. It is of great consequence to watch the eyes of children, and especially those of very tender age, lest inflammation should commence and proceed without being dis- covered untn too late. The eyelids are apt to be glued together in the first instance, and though they afterwards become tumid.