THORAX. 319 frequently between forty and fifty. It sometimes seems to be called into existence by the irritation of a blow or bruise^ and is occasionally preceded by simple induration of the gland; but very often a local cause cannot be assigned, or is so loosely con- nected with the appearance of the disease as to give no good ground for believing in its operation. The suppression of thef menstrual secretion is regarded as a great predisposing, or even exciting, cause of the morbid action, by disturbing the balance of the system ; and it has been observed, that distress of mind,' errors of diet, and any other circumstances which derange the secretions, tend further to promote the commencement and in- crease the activity of the disease. I am inclined to think that the cessation of the menstrual discharge does not exert so much influence as is generally attributed to it, and suspect that this opinion rests more. upon theoretical grounds, or views of pro- bability, than actual experience. It is true that, in women suffering from cancer of the breast, the catamenia are seldom present; but if inquiry be made whether their disappearance or the commencement of the disease was first noticed, the latter will in many cases prove to have been the earlier of the two events. Carcinoma of the mamma is recognised by its inequality of surface, extreme hardness, and specific gravity, which is greater than that of any other tissue, sound or morbid, except bone and ' cartilage. The integuments, when adherent to the tumour, are puckered, and drawn towards it. The nipple is flattened, hardened, and depressed. The patient complains of occasional lancinating pain shooting through the tumour, and from it in various directions ; and she generally betrays, by her greenish- yellow complexion, that depraved state of health, which, whether it be a cause or consequence, or partly both, as is most probable, usually attends such local affections. The course of the morbid process, if it be allowed to proceed, is to engage the glands of the axilla, which become enlarged and indurated; to form ill-con- ditioned matter hi the substance of the carcinomatous masses; to evacuate the contents of these abcesses by ulcerative absorp-