DISEASED NUTRITION. 87 there are people weak enough to believe the assertion, that it sometimes requires several years to effect any salutary change. Such practice is merely a cloak for quackery, and as such, is not less useless to the patient than disgraceful to the profession. It was formerly believed that a miraculous power of curing scrofu- lous diseases, by simply touching the patient, belonged to the kings of England from Edward the Confessor downwards, whence the common name of the disease still in use, viz., the King's Evil. The ceremony was performed at the commencement of summer, diuing -which season there is a strong tendency to spontaneous recovery; and this may account for the belief in a superstition so absurd. Encysted Ttimours. Encysted Tumours, or Wens, as they are called when of large size, consist of two parts—1. A bag or cyst of variable thickness, whence they have their title ; 2. A quantity of fluid, semifluid, or solid matter forming its contents. They are distingTUshed, in reference to the nature of their contents, into meliceritous, athe- romatous, and steatomatous, accordingly as they possess the con- sistence of honey, putty, or lard ; steatomes often contain, mixed up with the lardy-looking substance, a quantity of hairs, which seem to grow from the inner surface of the sac. Encysted tumours are of all sizes, but generally between those of a pea ahd walnut. They are seated immediately under the skin or mucous membrane, and chiefly abound on the head. Tliey are also met with about the organs of generation, but not nearly so frequently, and still more rarely over the limbs. It has been supposed that they are mere overgrowths of the natural sebaceous follicles or crypts, which lie in the skin ; and Dr. Sharpey has made known to me a curious observation, which would go to suppoi-t this opinion, viz., that the substance, wliich may be squeezed out of tlie follicles in question, contains nmne- rous small hairs, wliicli can be readily seen through a microscope of moderate power. In some cases, the cyst is obviously of this origin, having an aperture in the skin of a size proportioned to