205 BONES. adhered inseparably to the old one; and the late Professor Eussell injected the vessels of the old shaft, while its substitute was in progress of formation. It has hence been concluded, that the ossifying process originates from the old bone ; and that un- less the foundation of a new one be laid by it, previously to its own death, the loss of substance wiU not be replaced. But it has been fuUy ascertained, as weU by experiment in the lower animals as from observation of disease in the human body, that a bone, though suddenly deprived of life, may still be reproduced; and, on the whole, it seems clearly established, that the periosteum must be regarded the main source of reproduction. The views which I entertain on this subject will best appear froni the fol- lowing extract from the Transactions of the Royal Society of Udinhirgh^' " The property of forming new bone was first attributed to the periosteum by Duhamel, about a hundred years ago. Hav- ing been engaged in the study of vegetable physiology, and more particularly in regard to the formation of wood, he imagined that there might be an analogy between the inner layer of the bark and the periosteum, and that as the former hardens in successive layers so as to constitute the wood, the latter might suffer a cor- responding conversion into bone. He supported this opinion by the following arguments:—1. That when bones are burned in the fire, or exposed to the weather, they separate into a number of thin plates. 2. That, in consequence of disease aris- ing from external violence, the bones frequently throw off thin stjales, or exfoliations as they are called. 3. That when animals are fed alternately with madder and without it, their bones exhibit alternate layers of a red and white colour; and, 4, That when bones are fractured, they unite by means of an osseous capsule formed externally to, and embracing the broken extremi- ties, just as the branch of a tree acquires strength after being grafted, or simply broken across, " This theory of Duhamel was strenuously opposed by Haller, who urged, as altogether inconsistent with it, the mode in wliich * Vol. xiv. 1837.