PRINCIPLES OF SUKGEKY. 254 directed with the view of preventing inflammation, inducing it to terminate in resolution if actually existing, and promoting ab- sorption of the morbid structure. In attaining the fii-st of these objects, it is necessary to protect the joint concerned from all irritations, both direct and indirect. Not only strains, blows, and violent exercise should be avoided, but also motion of any kind or degree ; to prevent which the more effectually, splints of leather may be advantageously employed, the limb being fixed in that position which will render it most useful to the patient after the cure is completed. The various actions of the system should be supported by a moderate allowance of nourishing food —^by exercise of such kind as will not derange the affected limb —and by medicine when it is found necessary. Should inflam- mation be unfortunately excited, leeches, cupping, fomentations, and general remedies, if the severity of the symptoms seem to require them, must be promptly and freely resorted to. But, in promoting absorption, it should be recollected that, as the disease depends upon a disordered state of the system, local remedies can be of very little service. Cod-liver oil, protection from cold, and freedom from motion, have the most powerful influence, while pressure, ointments of iodine with mercury, and lotions, are of hardly any use. Mr. Scott brought the advantages of pressure very prominently forward, and led many people to believe, that in this, as well as some other chronic affection of the joints, it may be deemed an almost certain remedy. Sir B. Brodie seems to have gone into an opposite extreme in regarding the disease, as incurable, and all the remedial measures proposed for its re- moval as at best only palliative. Pressure is apt to occasion pain, and by thus exciting irritation, give rise to inflammation, so as to hasten on the malady to its last stage ; it ought, there- fore, to be employed with great caution. The best plan of treat- ment is, after subduing any inflammatory symptoms that happen to exist, to surround the joint with a common roller, applied so firmly as to effect the desired degree of compression. Mr, Scott recommended slips of plaster instead of the roUer, and changed them not oftener than once in several weeks. But this practice