179 BONES, splints and bandages in preserving the proper position ; but they will be best explained along with the particular circumstances requiring them. Another method of treating fractures has of late years been introduced, though there seems great reason to question its superiority over that previously in use. It consists in closely enveloping the injured limb with pasteboard and bandages, covered with starch. Some practitioners apply this immovable apparatus, as it has been called, immediately after the receipt of the injury, but others wait a few days until the tension and engorgement of the limb subside. The great advantage contended for is the abridgment of confinement, since the patient, so soon as the bandages become dry and firm, may quit his bed without danger of displacing the broken surfaces. On the other hand, it may be stated, that the process of dressing is not only tedious and requiring great nicety in its execution, but, unless he be carefully watched, must expose the patient to the risk of various bad consequences, from alterations, in the size of the limb occur- ring subsequently to its adjustment. On the latter account, especially, this mode of treatment seems most suitabre in hospital practice; and here, again, as the patients have no object but a speedy recovery, there does not appear to be any benefit derived from treating them propped up in chairs, or moving about on crutches, instead of being allowed to lie quietly in their beds. Compound Fractures. The wound wliich constitutes the distinguishing character of compound fractures occasions a most important difference in respect to the danger and difficulty of cure attending them. There is apt to proceed from this source violent inflammation with fever, terminating in profuse suppuration or gangrene, or death without any remarkable local change, merely from the effects of constitutional disturbance. These consequences used to be ascribed to the admission of air, but are now referred with more reason to the inflammation of an extensive wound impli- cating important and irritable tissues ; for unless the orifice of the cavity heals by the first intention, its surface must necessarily