GENITAL ORGANS. 457 progressive motion, and occasions other serious inconveniences, consists ill its removal. This object has been attained without taking away the penis and testicles; but the former of these organs is so deeply imbedded in the substance of the tumour, and its texture is usually so vascular, that such a procedure cannot always be practicable. If an attempt is made to preserve the sexual parts, flaps of the integuments must be preserved of sufficient size to cover them. Should, on the contrary, the removal of the entire tumour be determined on, the incisions may be executed with great rapidity, which mode of conducting the operation is much safer than cutting slowly, with the view of securing the arteries as they are divided; for both the pain and hemorrhage are thus greatly increased, and the patient, instead of being relieved from his load in a few seconds, may be detained under the knife for hours. The labium of the female is occasionally the seat of a similar growth. It possesses the same structure, gives rise to similar inconvenience, and admits of no other remedy. Cancer of the Scrotum. Mr. Pott (1775) described a cancerous ulceration of the .scrotum, which he had frequently remarked in adult chimney- sweepers. Succeeding sui-geons have confirmed the accuracy of his observations, so far as London is concerned; but in Edin- burgli, and other parts of Scotland, this chimney-sweeper's cancer is hardly ever met with, except in persons who have begun to suffer from it elsewhere. The following is the description of Mr. Pott:—" It is a disease which always makes its first attack on, and its first appearance in, the inferior part of the scrotum, where it produces a superficial, paiaful, ragged, ill-looking sore, with hard and rising edges. The trade call it the soot wart. In no great length of time it pervades the sldn, dartos, and mem- branes of the scrotum, and seizes the testicle, which it enlarges, hardens, and renders truly and thoroughly distempered, from whence it makes its way up the spermatic process into the abdo- men, most frequently indurating and spoiling tlie inguinal glands.