PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 88 its own ; but these cases must be regarded as exceptions, and the completely subcutaneous position, with the usually entire, imperforated cysts of these tumours, afford good reason to regard them as altogether new formations. Encysted tumours are sometimes, but very rarely, absorbed ; and local irritation, as that of a blow, especially when it ruptures the bag, occasionally excites the action which effects their re- moval in this way. More frequently they remain stationary I after attaining a certain size, or gi'adiially enlarge, adliere to the ; skin, inflame, suppurate, and open. Wlien the timiour inflames, the suiTOimding cellular substance becomes engaged, and diffused swelling, occasionally of large extent, ensues, attended with severe pain and constitutional distui-bance. In such circiun- stances, a free crucial incision should be made through the affected part, and then a poultice be applied until the sore granulates. The best remedy for encysted tumours in their ordinary con- dition is excision. Wlien the tumour is seated under the scalp, its cyst generally adheres so very loosely, that the operation may be performed almost instantaneously, and with extreme facility, by running a knife through the long direction of the tumour, so as to divide the bag and superjacent integuments, and then pulling it away with forceps, or turning it out with the handle of the knife. If the tumour is large, and has been subjected to pressure, the sldn usually adheres to it at the most projecting part ; and when this is found to be the case, an elliptical portion must be removed so as to include the conjoined integument and cyst. In other parts of the body, the bag usually adheres by its whole surface to the surrounding tissue, and must then be either regiilarly dissected out, or if small, punctvired, emptied, and touched with caustic. General Observations on Tumours. Though a very large proportion of the tumours met with in practice may be readily referred to one or other of the kinds that have now been described, it must not be suj)posed that the cha-