PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 2U The distinguishing character of caries is obstinacj'' of the dis- ease. The local symptoms vary considerably as to the quantity and quality of the discharge, the degree of pain, and the appear- ance of the orifice. The matter is generally thin and fetid, but sometimes possesses all the properties of perfect pus ; the pain for the most part is gnawing and incessant, but often is hardly perceptible, or on the contrary extremely severe. The orifice is usually smaU and callous, but occasionally exhibits large and flabby granulations. The disease has for the most part remissions more or less complete, and of considerable duration, in which the pain and discharge nearly or altogether cease, and the tilcer seems to be on the point of healing, or actually becomes covered with a cicatrix, which, however, is always thin and soft. But these amendments are only partial and temporary, being always followed by relapse, and there is no natural limit to the duration of the disease except the life of the patient, who, after months, or even many years of suffering, becomes finally exhausted, either by the caries itself, or some other disorder which the in-itation produced by it has excited. Wlien a carious bone has been macerated, the dis- eased part is found excavated and rough, the cancellated texture being remarkably spicular, white, and brittle, so as to resemble a spongy bone which has been exposed to the action of fire. The surface thus affected is often of considerable extent, though frequently very small, even in cases of old standing, but the dis- ease seldom reaches to a considerable depth. The field of the disease seems to be determined by the primaiy inflammation, and after being thus established, has little or no tendency to become larger. Around the carious part there is always an effusion of new osseous matter in the form of spines or tubercles, extending to a considerable distance, and greatly increasing the thickness of the bone. This new mass, which is no doubt produced in con- sequence of the irritation of the disease, like that formed to reunite fractures and supply the place of exfoliations, is charac- terised by compactness and smoothness when minutely examined, though on superficial inspection it appears rough and porous. The pores are apertures for the transmission of blood-vessels, but