MOUTH. 527 ends corresponding with the posterior surface having been tied together, so as to form a single thread, the wire may be attached to it and drawn through. The patient for some days after the operation must abstain from food, except what is absolutely necessary, and this should be of a fluid kind. Several repetitions ofihe process have repeatedly been required to complete the union of the whole fissure, and therefore the failure of one attempt or more ought not to occasion discouragement. Small apertures in the soft palate resulting from ulceration may be closed by re- peated applications of the cautery to their margins. Cutting the muscles of the palate as a preliminary to the operation is no more required than cutting the muscles of-the cheek for hare-lip. Fissure of the hard palate was formerly regarded as irremedi- able, except through the insertion of a metallic plate to supply the deficiency. But it is now ascertained that if the soft parts are separated on each side from the bone so as to be sufficiently re- laxed for uniting together, they may be united, and thus enabled to fill the vacant space with bone, through the ossific power of the periosteum in its new position. Cancer of the Lip. Cancerous ulceration frequently occurs in the under lip, but hardly ever affects the upper one, except by extending to it from the other, which seldom happens. This difference pro- bably depends on the greater or more frequent irritation to which the lower lip is exposed by its situation and mobility. The dis- ease rarely commences before middle age, and is met with more frequently in males than in females. It originates in different ways, at one time being preceded by a hard warty excrescence, possessing the carcinomatous texture, and at another appearing first in the form of a superficial chap or excoriation. The cancer, once established, increases progressively, but with vari- able rapidity, being attended with burning or lancinating pain, and surrounded by a remarkable induration. The aspect of the sore is extremely various, but always dissimilar to that of a sound granulating surface. All sorts of applications and modes