424 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. existence positively. Women between tlie ages of twenty and fifty are most frequently tlie subjects of the disease. The female urethra being not only very short and wide in its natural state, but also very dilatable, allows small stones to be seized and extracted through it very readily. But when the calculus obtains a larger size, it is necessary to enlarge the open- ing by incision. This may be readily effected by dilating the orifice so as to admit the finger, and upon it guiding a knife through the resisting ring at the neck of the bladder, after which the textures readily yield. K the stone is very large, so that it requires the vagina to be cut, silver siitures should be introduced to keep the edges in contact. Incontinence of Urine. Incontinence, or involuntary discharge of urine, is rarely met J with in females, but occurs very often in males. It happens at I all ages, and depends on different circumstances. In children, I who are frequently subject to it during their sleep, the cause i seems to be irritability of the bladder, inducing its expulsive ' contraction before the fluid accumulates in sufficient quantity to occasion uneasiness enough for awakening the patient. The fear of punishment, or some other strong impression on the mind, may break this disagreeable habit, by inducing a more vigorous resistance on the part of the voluntary muscles situated at the neck of the bladder; since, as is well known, vpHtion is not entirely suspended dvxring sleep. A more powerful remedy, and one that seldom fails when the morbid disposition has no other source than that under consideration, is the application of a large blister over the sacrum and lower part of the loins. A very dis- tressing incontinence is met with in persons of more advanced age, and often in the vigour of life, who have suffered derange- ment of the nervous system, either from spontaneous disease or . j the effects of external injury. The complaint is then usually I associated with weakness of the inferior extremities, which I betrays the nature of its origin, but it sometimes exists alone, \ and is of itself sufficient to render the patient miserable. Power-