PELVIS. 367 sphincter, where, of course, it cannot be brought into view by the most forcible separation of the nates, and admits of detection only by examination with the finger gently introduced, and carried round the circumference of the gut, so as to feel the con- dition of its surface. The ulcer has an elongated form, and rarely exceeds half an inch in length, not deep, but indurated at the margin, which facilitates its recognition. The patient's acute pain, when pressure is made on the ulcerated surface, also assists in the examination. The symptoms of this ulcer of the rectum are similar to those attending fissures of the anus. There is the same pain after going to stool,—the same uneasiness in sitting, when the patient may be observed to rest with one hip on the corner of liis chair, —and the same slimy discharge from the bowels. Uneasy feel- ings in the urinary organs are very generally complained of, especially a disagreeable sensation in the perineum, and frequent desire to make water, with more or less pain in doing so. I have met with instances of twenty or thirty years' misery from this source, aggravated by an endless variety of treatment, directed to the urethra by practitioners ia this department of practice both at home and abroad. When the presence of such an ulcer has been recognised, the patient may be relieved by the following no less simple than certain procedure. The operator having gently insinuated the point of his fore-finger, well-oiled, far enough to feel the exact situation and extent of the ulcerated surface, places the point of the sharp curved bistoury at the margin of the anus, and pushes it upwards so as to pass under the base and issue into the gut above tlie summit of the ulcer, after which the incision is com- pleted. It thus resembles that which has been described above for the remedy of Fissures, and requires the same treatment, or, rather, is equally independent of any. Foreign Bodies in the Rectum. Foreign bodies are introduced into the rectum either by descending through the intestinal canal, or by being forced through