167 AMPUTATION. undue pressure in the event of the cavity becoming distended with b]ood, which would be apt to occasion sloughing of the flap. When recovery is completed, the stump has a slightly bulbous form, from the thick cushion of dense textures that cover the heel, and readily admits of being fitted with a boot. The advantages which I originally anticipated from this ope- ration were—-j^rs^,. the formation of a more useful support for the body than could be obtained from any form of amputation of the leg; and, secondly, the diminution of risk to the patient's life, from the smaller amount of mutilation, the cutting of arterial branches instead of trunks, the leaving entire the medullary hollow and membrane, and the exposure of cancellated bone, which is not liable to exfoliate like the dense osseous substance of the shaft. From my own experience, and that of many other practitioners who have adopted amputation at the anlde, I now feel warranted to state that these favourable expectations have been fully realised, and that, in addition to its other advantages, this operation may be regarded as almost entirely free from danger to life. It also has the great advantage of removing not only the bone already diseased, but the whole of that spongy portion which may be disposed to suffer in the same way, as not unfrequently happened after the operation of Chopart. Some attempts have been made to improve this operation by varying the form of the flap, and by retainitig the astragalus or tuberosity of the os calcis. But all of these modifications seem to lessen the simplicity, facility, and efficiency of the operation ; more especially the one last mentioned, which was proposed by M. Perigoff of St. Petersburg, appears objectionable, by complicat- ing the process, exposing to the risk of relapse, by retaining a portion of the tarsal bones, and impeding the use of an artificial foot by rendering the limb inconveniently long. The circumstances which were formerly held to require re- moval of the Leg so generally admit of relief through amputation at the ankle, that the former operation is now rarely necessary in practice. Indeed, I have of late years performed it chiefly for the remedy of useless or uncomfortable stumps, resulting from