JOINTS. 261 primarily affected cannot be recognised. lu tlii'ee cases wliicli I have dissected at tlie beginning of the third stage—that is, after suppuration, but before the matter was discharged externally— the articular cartilage was sound eveiywhere, both on the head of the femur and on the acetabulum, except a small portion not so large as a sixpence at the centre of this cavity, where it was removed, and allowed a probe to pass into or rather through the bone. That cases of ulceration of the cartilages of the hip-joint do occasionally occur, there can be no doubt, both from the symptoms and dissections that have been observed ; but that these bear a very smaU proportion to those in which the disease originates in the bone seems no less certain. The disease may be then regarded as in general consisting primarily and essentially of chronic inflammation in the bones composing the joint, of which the pelvic portion usually suffers more than the femur ; and the means proper for subduing it are % consequently those which have been found most efficacious in the treatment of such affections of the articular apparatus. When the sjnnptoms are not severe, as is usually the case in the early stage, perfect rest alone is required, though it may be prudent also to apply occasionally a few leeches to the groin. For preventing motion, nothing answers so well as the long splint, applied in the same way that has been advised for fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, no extension being effected, but merely complete fixture of the limb in a line with the trimk of the body. But if the pain is severe, so as to disturb the patient's sleep, or continues after the means just mentioned have been employed, which is very seldom the case, recourse must be had to counter- irritation ; and though the various methods of effecting it by blisters, setons, caustic issues, and moxa, are all occasionally beneficial, the actual cautery ought always to be preferred as the most powerful means that can be employed. The best place for applying it is the hollow between the trochanter major and the tidoerosity of the ischium, where abroad eschar, several inches in length, should be formed. The patient must be kept perfectly quiet during the euro, which generally requires several months.