PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEllY. 108 hemorrhage was to use a ligature small, firm, aud round, to pass it round the artery with as little disturbance as possible to its connections, and to draw it tightly. It is to British surgeons, especially Messrs. Jones, Hodgson, Lawrence, and Travers, that the profession are chiefly indebted for establisliing these prin- ciples, wliich render the use of the ligature in the hands of a good operator equally easy and safe. To them, also, and more particularly to Cooper, Abernethy, and Listen, together with Drs. Post and Mott in America, is to be ascribed the honour of leading the way, by their bold and successful operations, resting on the sound foundation of cori-ect pathology, to the present treatment of aneurism, which contrasts remarkably, by its simplicity and safety, with the complexity aud danger of the older methods. The ligature should consist of waxed silk, and may in every situation be passed round the artery by means of a simple needle, after the sheath of the vessel has been opened merely to an extent sufficient for the purpose. One ligature only ought to be employed, unless the operator unfortunately denudes the artery too far, when he will diminish the risk of hemorrhage by intro- ducing two threads, and tying them as far apart from each other as the detachment of the vessel permits. Mr. Abernethy recom- mended this proceeding, together with division of the artery between the ligatures, as proper on all occasions admitting of it, in order to take off the effect of tension, and place the vessel as nearly as possible in the same situation with one tied after amputation, where the chance of bleeding is known to be greatly less. But the difference of the two cases in all probability does not depend on tension, while cutting the artery between the ligatures is attended with considerable danger of hemorrhage. After the principal artery of the Hmb is obstructed, the capil- lary anastomoses of the branches which arise above and below the impervious part, afford a new channel for the conveyance of the blood, and in general one so free that little apprehension need be entertained of bad consequences from imperfect circu- lation. Tlie dilatation of the small vessels which occurs before the operation, owing to tlie natural channel becoming more or