285 TENDONS. tain metliod, and it is miicli better to exert a steady pressure on the tumour by means of botli thumbs acting in concert. To promote absorption, a compress and bandage should be applied for some days after the operation. If it should be found impos- sible to rupture the bag, owing to its strength, the best plan is to introduce a narrow sharp-edged instrument through the skin, and open the sac, after which its contents may be squeezed into the cellular substance, or discharged externally. The in- strument used for this purpose may be a common surgical needle, or a small tenotomy knife. To make the effect more certain, a blister ought to be applied immediately after the contents of the bag have been evacuated. Such being the different methods of treatment which will be found most effectual and sufficient for the remedy of the disease in all its forms, it would be use- less to detail the other measures which have been recommended, and are still occasionally employed. Of these, continued pres- sure, effected by means of a piece of money or similar solid compress fastened over the swelling, repeated blistering, in- unction of tartrate of antimony ointment, seton, incision, and excision, are the most deserving of notice, but, for the reason mentioned, need not be more particularly considered. BurscB Mucosa;. The Bursm Mucosce, like other serous structures, are subject to dropsical effusion. The exciting cause is usually some local irri- tation ; and when of an indirect kind, such as cold, its effect in producing the disease seems in general referable to a predisposi- tion of the system, depending on weakness or some peculiarity of constitution. If the membrane is merely distended, and has not suffered any thickening or alteration of structure, blistering, succeeded by pressure, may induce absorption of the fluid. If the sac is thick and indurated, these means often prove insuffi- cient, and it is found necessary to puncture the swelling, so as to let its contents escape, after which, a blister having been ap- plied, and followed by pressure, the radical cure is accomplished. Sometimes, along with the fluid, the sac contains a number of