PELVIS. 419 is one death in from seven to ten cases. The period of life at which the operation proves most successful is between the second and fifteenth years, and next to this from sixty to seventy. The most unfavourable age seems to be about forty or fifty; and it is always observed that when the health is vigor- ous, and the suffering from the disease slight, the risk is much greater than when the patient is reduced by continued and incessant pain, provided no organic disease has been excited in any part of the system. Other methods of cutting for the stone have been proposed and followed more or less extensively; but as the success attend- ing any of them has not nearly approached that of the operation which has been fully considered, it seems unnecessary to enter into a particular detail of them, and the four following may be noticed shortly as the most deserving of attention:—1. The bilateral operation ; 2. The high operation, or above the pubis ; 3. The recto-vesical operation ; and, 4. The median. The first of these was contrived by M. Dupuytren, in order to lessen the risk of injuring the rectum and pudic artery. The peculiarity of it consists in cutting the prostate on both sides equally, which is effected by an instrument constructed for the purpose, and composed of a sheath containing two blades, that can be made to project laterally more or less as may be required. This instrument, being conveyed into the bladder on the groove of the staff, after the preliminary incisions have been made in the perineum, in a transverse direction, is expanded and with- di'awn in this state, cutting the gland to the requisite extent. Many objections might be urged against this method, but it is sufficient to mention that the result of experience is not in its favour. The High operation is of older date, having been intro- duced about the close of the seventeenth century, when it was discovered that the bladder could be cut with safety, but the proper principles for operating in the lateral way had not yet been established. It was proposed considerably earlier than this, and had even been practised in some few cases, but did not engage much attention until the time mentioned. The mode of