BONES. 227 constitutes the foundation of Mr. Pott's practice ; but it certainly has been applied too indiscriminately. In the common case which commences with scrofulous deposition in the substance, or on the surface of the bones, and insidiously advances through its suppurative stage, noadl^^.^^S® ^® derived from counter- irritation, which, on the contrary, may prove injurious by exhaust- ing the^atient's strength. In the case also, occasionally, though not so frequently met with, where the spine forms an acute pro- jection posteriorly, becoming bent almost to a right angle, with little pain and no suppuration,—the bodies of the vertebr£e seem- ing to be simply absorbed, so that the remaining rings and pro- cesses are consolidated together,—there is no use in opening issues. It is only when the pain and other symj)toms that have \ been mentioned denote the existence of inflammatory action, that caustic or the actual cautery should be employed. The latter agent seems greatly preferable, and is to be applied longi- tudinally to the extent of a few inches on each side of the affected part, except when the neck is concerned, in which case the'middle line may be selected for the purpose. This disease occasionally affects the first or second upper cervical vertebra, with the corresponding part of the occipital bone. The symptoms, in the first instance, are the same as those wliich have been already described, consisting of deep-seated pain felt chiefly at night, and aggravated by motion. But, owing to the importance of the portion of the nervous system which lies within the direct influence of the disease, when it is thus situated, namely, the lower part of the medulla oUongata, and the mobility of the joints concerned, the patient's sufferings are extremely severe. In eating and speaking he feels darting pains through the neck. In changing his position, he keeps the \ head perfectly steady, and employs both his hands to assist the i muscles in preventing any rotation or flexion of the affected vertebrse. He loses his appetite and strength; complains of ! almost unremitting and intolerable nausea; and exhibits, by a peculiarly anxious and unhappy expression of countenance, that he labours under a disease of the most agonizing kind. Loss of