219 BONES. Fih'o-Cartilaginous Tumour of Bone. It is usual to compreliend all the solid tumours of bone, tlie consistence of which is less hard than that of the bone itself, under the title of Osteo-sarcoma. But as this leads to much con- fusion, it is better to divide the softer tumours of bone into the fibro-cartilaginous, and meduUary-sarcomatous, which differ essentially in their nature and consequences. The fibro-cartilaginous tumour, when occurring in bones, possesses the characters which have been already described in the general account of this kind of morbid growth. Its colour is white, gray, or yellow; its consistence more or less nearly approaches that of cartUage, and it often has interspersed through it small cysts of transparent fluid. It generally originates in the central part of the bone affected, and gradually enlarging, expands the surrounding shell, which still preserves the pro- perties of sound osseous tissue, though sometimes singularly altered in shape. The tumour is productive of little inconveni- ence except from its size, but on this account is often a source of great annoyance and distress ; as when the lower-jaw, humerus, metacarpal bones, or phalanges of the fingers are affected. There is reason to believe, that if the fibro-cartilaginous substance could be completely eradicated, the bone would resume its natural shape and size; but as its cellular or honeycomb-looking structure, when expanded by the disease, renders this impractic- able, the only remedy is removal of the bone affected, which, however disagreeable in some situations, from the deformity occasioned by it, may at least be performed with a favourable prospect of effecting a permanent cure. Medullary-Sarcomatous Tumour of Bone. MeduUary sarcoma occurs in bone perhaps more frequently than in any other tissue of the body. It commences sometimes immediately under the periosteum, and causes an excavation in the surface of the bone, around which more or less osseous matter is effused; at other times it begins in the interior,