PELVIS. 373 pain, can neither walk nor stand. In these circumstances, the whole of the protrusion may be removed by ligature with perfect safety and complete relief, immediate as well as permanent. The disease is best treated, however, when in its ordinary state, and free from inflammation. It is then easy to ascertain the exact extent of hemorrhoidal swelling concerned, and employ the requisite measures. In every case, the whole of the internal piles should be removed by ligatures, and after they have been tied, any of the external kind that appear are to be carefully cut away, together with the loose redundant integument surrounding the orifice of the gut. In aU operations at this part, it should be a rule never to leave any hemorrhoidal growth, either external or internal, since the portion permitted to remain will be almost sure to inflame and prove troublesome. The tumour that is formed by prolapsus of the whole thick- ness of the intestine, whether occurring in children or adults, is in general very readily reduced by slight pressure, provided the expulsive efforts have ceased, and the patient assumes the hori- zontal posture. Occasionally, however, from the parts being allowed to remain for hours, or even days protruded, the intes- tinal coats become greatly thickened, consequently increasing the size of the swelling, and rendering replacement of the gut more dif&cult. A manipulation, similar to that of the taxis, must then be carefully employed, after the surface of the tumour has been lubricated with oil. The neck, or part next the anus, is steadily compressed with the flngers, and then pushed upwards through the ring which is formed by the sphincter. Successive portions are to be returned in the same way, until the remaining portion is so small as to admit of being pushed up at once. Fistula in Ano. Abscesses frequently form in the neighbourhood of the anus, and, when evacuation is allowed to take place natiu-aUy by ulce- rative absorption, the opening is generally external; but some- times it is formed through the gut, and not unfrcqueutly there is both an external and internal aperture, the formation of the