JOINTS. 235 dii-ection which it has assiuned in consequence of the displace- ment. The force for this purpose may be applied so as to act either directly on the hone itself, or on a part of the limb sepa- rated from it by one or more articulations. It has been objected to the former mode, that it causes compression of the muscles opposed to reduction, and to the latter, that, by keeping the limb straight, it is still more adverse to yielding of the muscles. It does not appear, however, that any practical inconvenience is experienced in either of these ways. The former method is on tlie whole more convenient in most cases, and is generally employed in this country. In order to make extension effec- tually, it is necessary to have counter-extension exerted on the corresponding surface from which the bone has been dislocated —^viz., the one nearest the centre of the body; and the more directly it is subjected to the power employed for this pur^jose, the more perfectly will the object in view be attained. The force employed for extension may be either simply the manual strength of one or more stout assistants, or this increased by the power of the pulley. In all cases of recent dislocation, excexDt perhaps sometimes when the hip-joiat is concerned, mere manual extension is sufficient, and it ought, therefore, in general, to be preferred, being more readily obtained, and also more easily managed, than the pulley. The best bandage for applying the extending force is a skein of worsted, or a folded shawl, which must be securely fastened to prevent it from slipping in the pro- cess. The best noose for this purpose is either the clove-hitch, as it is called by sailors, or another which is preferred by the , French surgeons. It is executed by placing the band across the limb in a triple form, and then drawing each of its ends through the opposite loop. The strength of the patient's muscles used to be weakened by bleeding—the warm bath—tobacco injections—and the tartrate of antimony, given in solution in small doses frequently repeated. The involuntary resistance was also lessened by making tlie patient speak, so as to prevent fixture of tlie thorax, which being the central point of attachment directly or indirectly to all the