PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 340 into its place, and the threads are tied tightly over a little roll of plaster or lint, to prevent ulceration of the skin, the whole being secured by a compress and spica bandage. In the treatment of Incarcerated hernia, the object should be to remove the obstacles which oppose reduction. The intestines should be unloaded by the free administration of purgatives and injections. If there is reason to suppose that the resistance to the return of the protruded parts depends on thickening and induration of the omentum, which sometimes can be felt through the parietes of the tumour, the patient should be confined to bed, restricted to a slender diet, and depleted from time to time by bleeding, or cathartics, with the view of producing, dimng the general emaciation of the body thus induced, a sufficient diminu- tion of the omental mass to permit the accomplishment of reduc- tion. In the case of adhesions existing between the viscera and sac, the only practicable mode of overcoming the difficulty would be to lay open the contents of the hernia, and separate their morbid connections. Operations have accordingly been performed for this purpose, but their almost uniformly fatal result ought to deter all prudent surgeons from repeating such attempts. And if the gentle means above mentioned should prove unavailing, it will be better to advise the patient to be satisfied with such palliation of his complaint as may be obtained from strict atten- tion to the state of his bowels, abstinence from all violent exertions, and the support of a bag truss, than to endanger his life by trying to effect a radical cure with the knife. The Strangulated condition of hernia being attended not only with extreme suffering, but also with great and immediate danger, demands the most speedy and decided assistance of the surgeon. His first object is of course to effect reduction ; and this he im- mediately endeavours to perform by a careful manipulation, which is named the Taxis. The patient should be laid reclining, with his shoulders and pelvis slightly elevated, to relax the parietes of the abdomen; and with the same intention, the tliigh of the affected side should be bent upwards and inwards, as the fascia lata is thus prevented from causing any tension of the