119 BLOOD-VESSELS. will be better to perform the ordinary operation. I did so on one occasion with perfect success. The disease not unfrequently appears at the groin, being seated in the common femoral artery above its bifurcation,—and then constitutes a tumour, which fills more or less completely the triangular hollow that exists at this part of the thigh, and is apt to be mistaken for a chronic abscess. The proper remedy is ligature of the external iliac ; and Mr. Abernethy had the merit of executing this bold attempt for the first time (ISO-i), having previously tied the artery in another case on account of hemorrhage (1796). Both the patients who were the subjects of these operations died; but his next case (1806) was more fortunate. Mr. Freer of Birmingham, much about the same time, but rather earlier, met with complete success. Since then, the ligature of the external iliac has been practised so frequently and successfully that it is now regarded as an ordinary proceeding. The operation consists in making an opening through the ab- dominal parietes above Poupart's ligament, pushing aside the peritoneum, and then tying the artery, which is thus brought into view, or at aU events within reach of the aneurism-needle. The incision for this purpose ought to run nearly parallel with Poupart's ligament, but slightly diverging from it in proceeding upwards, so as to be about the distance of an inch from the superior spinous process. It should be between three and four inches long, and. placed lower down or further up, according to the situation of the tumour, so as to let the Ligature be applied at some distance from the sac. Generally speaking, the lower end of the incision ought to be about half an inch above the middle of Poupart's ligament. The surgeon may cut through the integuments and tendon of the external oblique, as it is usually called, without any ceremony; but iu dividing the internal oblique and transverse muscles, he should use the pre- caution of raising their fibres with the forceps, before cutting them; and having thus exposed a portion of the fascia trans- versalis, he may readily dilate to what further extent seems