380 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. the xiretlira and the rectum;—and just before entering the neck of the bladder, from the point not being sufficiently elevated while urged forwards, which forces it into the substance of the prostate gland. Attention to these sources of error will guard the surgeon against making false passages, and enable him to avoid them if abeady formed. It seldom happens that one evacuation of the bladder is sufficient for the patient's recovery. He feels completely relieved at the time, but soon begins to suffer again from the symptoms of distension; as the bladder, even when in the soundest state previously, is slow in regaining its contractile power. The catheter, therefore, must be introduced once or twice a day, until it ceases to be required. If the cure should never be completed, as in cases where the palsy arising from distension is complicated with the weakness of old age, it wiU be requisite to draw off the water regularly, especially at bed-time, to prevent its involuntary discharge during sleep. 2. Rctmtion of Urine from Irritation and Spasmodic Contraction at the Neck of the Bladder. When the ordinary resistance to the passage of the urine is increased by inordinate contraction of the muscles, which in the healthy state oppose the expulsive power of the bladder, the fluid is retained, and gives rise to the same symptoms as in the former case, but generally in a very acute form. The muscles concerned in producing this effect are the sphincter^ of the bladder, and Wilson's muscles, which descend from the pubis and embrace the membranous part of the urethra. The causes which excite their excessive action are irritations, sometimes indirectly applied, as those proceeding froni exposure to cold, the use of stimulating food or drink, or the employment of cantharides; but more frequently of a local kind, as from inflammation of the extremity of the urethra, spreading back towards the bladder, or from the injurious effects of instruments introduced into the canal. If these circumstances operate on a person whose urethra is previ- ously diseased, and more especially if it should be already con-