13 INFLAMMATION. ness—^biit seem to be influenced by continuity of texture, con- tiguity of situation, and participation in the same function. As examples, may be mentioned the connection which is veiy fre- quently observed between affections of the mucous membrane at different parts of the body—the suppuration of the cheek which is apt to be caused by the irritation of a decayed tooth—and the fellow-suffering which is displayed by the breast and uterus in the derangements of each other. 4. Excited action of one part may take the place of that in another, the system seeming inadequate to the support of both. This translation of disease from one part to another is named Metastasis, and constitutes a most important principle of prac- tice, as being the foundation of what is called couuter-irrita- tion, or the excitement of artificial disease for the relief of others more inconvenient or dangerous, as in the common case of a blister being applied to the chest to relieve disturbance of the lungs. 5. Pain, hemorrhage, inflammation, increased nutrition, and excited secretion, take the place of each other, so that they may be regarded as equivalents of action. Thus in the disease named tic doulouretuc, an intensely painful affection, which usually pro- ceeds from derangement of the mucous secretions, the most effectual relief is obtained by causing copious discharges from the bowels through the operation of powerful purgatives. The monthly discharges of blood from females cease when the nutri- tion of the fcetm in utero commences—or when a large tumour is formed in any part of the body; it also does not appear while the secretion of milk continues; and when, independently of these conditions, it ceases to appear, local inflammation, as that of the eye, is apt to occur. The local abstraction of blood and the establishment of suppurating surfaces are every day prac- tised for the counteraction of inflammation. It is unnecessary to mention more examples of such counterbalancing effects ; but it must be observed, that the exchange is more ready between some of these morbid states than others, wliich must be attended to in the use of counter-irritation.