PUINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 72 which he owes to his patients, by eudeavouring to make him- self inclepeudent of any such assistance, by careful study of the sensible characters. In doing so it will be necessary for him to recollect that the different and even remarkable seats of morbid growths are apt to approximate each other by a gradual transition, which frequently renders it difficult to draw a line of distinction between them. / Of all morbid growths, the simplest and apparently most akin to the natural structure, is that which has been named Simple or Vascular Sarcoma. It seems to be chiefly composed of accumu- lated cellidar tissue and blood-vessels. It sometimes exists as an independent tumour; but more frequently constitutes what are called simple enlargements of natural parts, as the testicle, or thyroid gland. It produces little inconvenience, except what pro- ceeds from its bulk ; and is recognised by negative characters,— that is, by not manifesting the peculiarities which distinguish the other kmds of morbid growth. Of all tumours, this is the one which yields most readily to means that promote absorption; and these, accordingly, are chiefly employed in its treatment. Of local applications, blisters and stimulating lotions, with ointments containing mercury, iodine, and the hydriodate of potass, are the most useful,—more or less pressure being at the same time applied. Mercury and iodine are also very serviceable when administered internally so as to affect the system, care being taken that their use is not pushed too far so as to injure the patient's health. If the tumour during the treatment becomes red or painful, a few leeches should be applied ; and the utmost care is to be taken throiighout, that the patient's secretions are duly performed. In this way, chronic enlargements of the glands, and simple sarcomatous growths exist- ing independently, may sometimes be dispersed. Should they prove obstiaate, and occasion much inconvenience or deformity, the best method of removing them is excision, if the circumstances of the case, as to the situation and connections of the tumour, do Simple Sarcoma.