501 EYE, in its progress tending to encroach over the latter. It generally grows at the internal angle, the apex is always directed towards the pnpil; and the transverse diameter of the eye passes through the centre of its base. It occasions imeasiness, by obstructing the movement of the eyelids; and, if allowed to pursue its course on the cornea, may ultimately impede vision, by covering the pupiL The local means which are proper for subduing chronic inflammation, sometimes check the progress of pterygium; but the radical remedy of it consists in removal. This is readily eflected by seizing the growth with a hook or forceps, pulling it outwards, and cutting it entirely away with scissors curved to one side. If it be so large as to lead to an apprehension of incon- venience from the contraction caused by the resulting cicatrix,— a portion merely of the disease, about a line in breadth, and ninning transversely across it, may be removed. The vessels are thus completely interrupted, and the remainder of the excre- scence gradually shrinks away. A granular state of the conjunctiva lining the eyelids is occasionally a consequence of chronic inflammation, particularly when it is associated with purulent discharge. The surface, instead of being soft and smooth, becomes covered with small elevated points or tubercles ; and the irritation which is neces- ^arOy occasioned by the roughness thus produced, maintains the inflammatory symptoms, so that a reaction is instituted, which renders the ordinary treatment ineffectual. Sometimes, instead of tliis slight elevation and irregularity of the surface, the con- junctiva is extended into large fleshy-looking excrescences, which roll out upon the cheek when the eyelids are separated, and occasionally cannot be reduced without considerable difficulty. In the latter case, excision is the preferable practice; but, in the former condition, which is more frequently met with, though the knife and scissors have been employed, there can be no doubt that the best treatment consists in touching the granular surface from time to time, at the distance of a day or two, with lunar caustic. Staphyloma is a projection of the cornea, of a round or conical