PBINCIPLES OF SUKGEKY. 410 come to supersede the former one for the whole operation, whicli is, therefore, now named Lithotripsy or crushing, to distinguish it from the grinding process. It is needless to describe par- ticularly the various instruments employed, since description alone could give no precise idea of theii- structure, and stOl less of their exercise. The general principle, as already mentioned, consists in the separation of two jaws by pushing one before the other, and then, after grasping the stone, approximating them by the force of a screw or simply manual pressure. Great improvements have been made in the instruments em- ployed for crushing stones^ in the bladder, attended with a corre- sponding degree of facility and success in their employment. The operation may now be conducted with propriety by any practitioner who is accustomed to mam'pulate the urethra and bladder ; and when the stone is not so large as to require fre- quent repetition of the process, it may be removed in tliis way with wonderfully little disturbance to the patient. But if there is any prospect of a prolonged and laborious conflict with the fragments, it is much better to extract the concretion entire through incision, than to incur the danger of exciting chronic inflammation of the bladder. Chronic inflammation of the prostate gland or mucous mem- brane, if excited by the pressure or laceration of the instrument, will probably lead to further derangement of the urinary secre- tion, and the consequent deposition of new calciili,—the irrita- tion caused in extracting which will keep up the traiu of morbid action, and if not at length fatal to the patient, must at aU events make him suffer much more than he would have done from excision of the stone. x When the operation is to be performed, the patient should be placed reclining, with his pelvis a little elevated. The crushing instruments must not be introduced when the bladder is empty, as its coats could then hardly escape injury; but it is not expe- dient to inject water for the purpose of distension, as it is apt to escape by exciting the contractile effort of expulsion. A better plan is to allow accumulation of the urine to the requisite extent,