PELVIS. 377 Pieces of lint should be placed between tlie cut edges, and renewed for a few days until granulation is establisbed, when superficial dressings are sufficient. In cases of blind internal fistula, which are rare, it would be found very difficult to comply with the dii-ections generally given, to guide a probe up the gut into the sinus, and make its point protrude in the hip, to shew where the knife should be introduced to make the fistula com- plete. Such a process is fortunately quite unnecessary, as the seat of the sinus can always be readily recognised by its softness, compared with the firmness of the surrounding parts, especially those in the immediate neighbourhood, which constitute the walls of the cavity, and are indurated by the effusion of lymph. At the centre of this part, which is felt most soft and yielding, an incision should be made, and then the operation may be com- pleted, as if there had been an external opening in the first instance. Fistula in ano, depending upon caries of the sacrum, or con- nected with phthisis, is of course incurable; but partial relief may often be afforded by giving the matter free vent for its discharge. It may be observed, that when the obstinacy of the fistula depends on other causes besides those of a local kind, and particularly the one last mentioned, the external orifice is gene- rally large, and surrounded with thin flabby integuments. Retention of Urine. .1. Retention from deficienexj in the expulsive power of the Bladder. The urinary bladder may be weakened in various ways, so as to effect the evacuation of its contents imperfectly, or not at aU. Mere inordinate and long;contmuei,.di8tension^ by over-stretch- ing the muscular fibres, destroys, more or less completely and permanently, the contractility of the organ, and in a con-espond- ing degree renders the patient unable to void his urine. When the retention is complete, the bladder is distended until it con- tains several pounds, and forms a large tumour, which may be seen and felt in the hypogastric region. The ureters and pelvis