492 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. method of exciting their absorption, by applying some stimulat- ing ointment or lotion. Strong acetic acid answers very well for this purpose, if applied every second or third day. When they are seated on the face, caustic, and all other applications likely to excite irritation, should be carefully withheld from them ; and if itching, pain, or increasing size at any time indi- cates activity, and probable perversion of their nutritive action, excision ought to be immediately performed. Corns consist of a thickening or induration of the cuticle, induced by pressure, which excites the secreting action of the cutis. The toes, particularly on their lateral aspect, are most liable to this occurrence; and it appears that there is great variety in the predisposition to the disease, which is possessed by different individuals. The symptoms of a corn are precisely what a foreign body of similar size and consistence would pro- duce, if placed in the same situation. They may be palliated by slicing off the most projecting part of the induration, by wearing wide shoes, or avoiding walking. The radical cure is often attempted by detaching the corn from its matrix by means of a pointed and flat, but not sharp-edged instrument,—^which may be done very completely without bleeding, is always followed by great relief, and sometimes proves permanently effectual. A better method is to soften the corn by touching it with acetic acid again and again until the whole is scraped" out, and then apply the nitrate of sUver to the exposed surface of the cutis, to destroy its morbid secreting tendency. Corns are occasionally not hard, but soft, the cuticle consti- tuting them being white and moist. These soft corns, as they are generally, though not very correctly, termed, usually prove more troublesome than the others. They cannot be detached entirely,—and are apt to inflame, suppurate, and form obstinate sores, if subjected to ii-ritation. Astringent applications, such as that formed by mixing together equal parts of alum and the white of eggs, often afford great relief.