47 GRANULATION. sidence of the suiToundiug swelling, if any exists; and then a gradual emaciation, chieily of the fatty, but also of the other tissues concerned, so as to render the skin more lax and easily drawn together. Hence it is that the cicatrix when first formed appears to be on a level with the neighbouring surface, though there may have been a loss of substance to a considerable depth. After the cure is completed, the usual plumpness returns, and ^ the cicatrix will then be found depressed. Ulcers being thus healed by contraction, and not by any. new production except what forms the cicatrix, the reason appears why their cure is accomplished more readily in parts that are lax, than in. those which are comparatively fixed from adhering to the subjacent bones. The sore which remains after the removal of nearly the whole scrotum by slougliing or operation readily heals, with a very small cicatrix ; while injuries of the scalp attended with loss of substance are repaired very slowly, and with a consider- able depression at the part. The old stories of regeneration following removal of the lip for cancer, and destruction of the (jlans penis by sloughing, when inquired into and stripped of theu- exaggerations, are found to admit of easy explanation. In the former case, it is apt to appear that the disease occupies a larger extent of the part affected than it really does, from the morbid growth taking the place of, and pressing aside, the sound textures. Hence the whole lip may seem to be involved and taken away by operation, while, in fact, a comparatively small portion only has been removed, and the remainder is ready to stretch out when its surface is drawn together by the gxanulating action, and thus, in a great measure, supply the loss of substance. Something of a similar description occurs in sloughing of the. tongue or glans 2?e7ws,—the swelling which attends the preceding inflammation making the part concerned appear much larger tlian it really is, so that, though the destruction is only partial, it may be thought complete. On all occasions, when a sore heals by the gi-anulating process, there is great risk of supposing that the cavity is filling up, while, in ti'uth, the bottom remains at the same level, and appears to rise from the sun-ounding skin de-