PRINCIPLES OP SURGERY. 300 bouring parts ; wliile the latter is not only in a great measure free from these defects, but proves much more speedy in its operation. The bougies may be constructed either of elastic gum or of steel. If of the second kind, they ought to be a little curved, and have their extremity made slightly bulbous, as this enables the operator to feel more distinctly when it has passed the stricture. The effect of bougies in removing strictures of mucous canals is not, as was formerly supposed, merely mecha- nical. This no doubt is the first effect; but another very im- portant one follows, which is the action of absoi-ption, induced by the pressure of the instrument. The organizable matter effused into the coats of the gullet, causing their contraction and thickening, is thus gradually removed. But if the bougies be passed with undue force, or too frequently, or be retained too long, the effect, instead of being absorption, is apt to be effusion, the consequence of which is an aggravation of the disease. The bougies, therefore, should be immediately withdrawn after being passed through the stricture; and the operation ought not to be repeated until the irritation of the previous one has entirely Subsided, which usually requires an interval of two or three days. Great care must be taken to avoid maldng a false passage for the instrument, which, if improperly directed, or urged with undue force, may be readily pushed into the posterior mediastinum, or elsewhere through the coats of the canal. In this case the action of deglutition tends to propel foreign matters into the new aperture, instead of the strictured oesophagus, and speedy death is the almost inevitable consequence. The third kind of stricture, or that which depends on morbid degeneration of the oesophagus, causing a tumour in its coats, and which may be named the malignant or carcinomatous stricture, is met with chiefly in persons beyond the middle period of life. It usually occurs at the ordinary situation of other strictures, that is, behind the cricoid cartilage ; but sometimes takes place lower down, near the cardiac extremity of the tube. The symptoms are- those of simple stricture, together with those attendant on morbid formations of the kind in question. The