239 JOINTS. Dislocation of the humerus backwards or outwards is very, rare. In the few cases of it which have been observed, the head of the bone lay between the scapula and infra-spinatus muscles, below the spine, so as to cause a distinct external swelling in this situation, and a deficiency at the fore part of the shoulder. The arm was directed forwards across the chest, and could not be moved into any other position without both force and pain. The reduction is easily effected, the extension being made in the direction which the limb retains from the accident. In all very recent cases of dislocation of the shoulder, and more especially within an hour or two after the accident, there is- a considerable chance of effecting reduction by suddenly rotating the arm outwards, and at the same time drawing the elbow backwards, while the operator's hand in the axilla urges the head of the bone into its place. In such circumstances, therefore, this simple method ought always to be tried in the first instance,—of course without any intimation to the patient of the intention to do so, which would certainly excite opposing action of his muscles. Elboio-joint.—The elbow-joint is liable to various sorts of dislocation, the diagnosis of which is often very difficult, especially as fractures near or through the articular surfaces pro- duce in some respects similar symptoms. There is a difference of opinion as to the comparative frequency of these accidents, and also as to the characters for distinguishing them, with the exception of one dislocation, which is certainly the most common and best marked of the whole. This is displacement of both . bones of the fore-arm backwards. The articulating extremity of the hiunerus stretches the biceps and hrachiceus iniernus, occa- sions a hard tumour at the bend of the arm, and generaUy causes permanent semiflexion of the limb, though, sometimes, as I have had occasion to see in several instances, the arm is straight. Tlie olecranon projects behind further than usual, and the triceps is much relaxed. The fore-arm appears shortened. This accident happens from falls on the hand while the arm is bent. The reduction is very easily performed by making extension,