PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 488 the matter is discharged. Tf sloughing takes place (Gangrenous Erysipelas), poultices are proper, until the dead parts are thrown off, after which a nutritive diet is aU that the patient requires. The last-mentioned form of the disease sometimes occurs with very acute symptoms, and runs its course in despite of eveiy sort of treatment, so as to terminate fatally witliin a few days from its commencement. It generally originates from some slight local injury, such as a prick or scratch, but occasionally commences without any breach of the surface having been sus- tained. It is always preceded by, and accompanied with, exti-eme constitutional distm-bance, of which the most remarkable features are excessive rapidity of the pulse, great frequency of respiration, want of sleep, anxiety, dusky complexion, and dark colour of the tongue. Hps, etc. Free incisions, hot fomentations, calomel with opium, administered internally, and a liberal allowance of wine or other stimulants, are the means best calculated to afford relief in this most alarming state, which may be regarded from- the first as all but incurable. By Anthrax or Carbuncle, and Furunculiis or Boil, are im- plied different degrees of a similar affection of the skin, consist- ing in an inflammation fixed to the part where it occurs, but tending to spread in its extent, attended with intense pain, and terminating in suppiiration, with more or less slougliing. The disease is met with of all sizes, from that of a pea to that of a plate. It occurs, when large, generally on the posterior-surface of the trunk between the occiput and sacrum, and, if small, chiefly on the face and limbs. In other parts of the body it usually attains an intermediate size. There is usually little swelling, but great induration. Small apertures take place spontaneously in the progress of the disease, but as these de- pend on detached suppurations in the substance of the thickened cutis, they afford no relief. The irritation consequently con- tinues,—^the disease enlarges its area,—and if of large size, or seated in a weakly subject, may at length prove fatal. In gene- ral, the disease is more distressing than dangerous. It is always preceded by derangement of the system, though it frequently