PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 96 heals* as it would have done iii other circuinstances. Various explanations have been offered to account for the spontaneous cessation of arterial hemorrhage. Petit (1730) referred it to the coagulation of blood, first without and then within the orifice of the vessel, so as to form a sort of cork or stopper to it. Morand (1736), in addition to coagulation, insisted upon there being also contraction of the mouth of the artery, both as to length and width, so that it assumed a conical form, which retained the clot. Pouteau (1760) rejected the preceding explanations, and referred the whole effect to injection of blood into the cellular substance. Dr. Kirkland (1763) maintained, to the conviction for a long while of most siu'geons in this coimtiy, that the process consisted in shrinldng and obliteration of the wounded vessel up to the first branch that came off above the injured part. In 1807, Dr. Jones proved, by a full and conclusive course of experiments, that none of these opinions were correct,—that the process in question was a complicated one,—and that it consisted of various distinct steps. He ascertained that, in the first place, the ex- tremity of the artery contracted somewhat, and withdrew itself by retraction; that then the blood was injected into the sur- romiding cellular substance, especially that of the sheath, and coagulated there, after which a coagidum formed first on the outside, then in the interior of the orifice of the vessel; and that, lastly, lymph being effused from the cut edges of the arterial coats, became gradually organised, so as to complete the obstruc- tion. In the course of time the artery contracted up to the first branch, and the clots were absorbed, when the cure might be considered complete. When the artery which has been wounded is prevented from retracting by its firm connection with the neighbouring parts, or by being only partially divided, or when the surrounding cellular substance is either very dense or very lax, this process is impeded, and the hemorrhage proves more obstinate than in ordinary cases. On the contrary, when an artery is not cut, but torn across, it seldom bleeds at aU, even though of large size, because the external or cellular coat being the last to give way during the stretching of the artery.