171 AMPUTATION. laterally and forming a flap from the palmar aspect; but the longer stump thus obtained is not found to facilitate the adapta-^ tion, or increase the utility, of an artificial hand; and the large articular surface which remains, though it may not materially delay the cure, must always cause deformity. The arm may be amputated above the elbow, either by double flap or circular incision ; but the former mode is greatly preferable. A tourniquet is here quite unnecessary, as the vessel can be compressed easily and effectually by the hand placed over it at the inner edge of the biceps. Amputation at the shoulder-joint is not unfrequently re- quired, and may be performed in various ways, with three of which the surgeon should be familiar, as the state of the parts concerned sometimes leaves no room for choice. 1. The circulation through the subclavian artery being arrested by pressure with the thumb above the clavicle, where the vessel issues from between the scaleni, and rests on the first rib, the surgeon thrusts a sharp-pointed knife down to the head of the humerus, immediately below the acromion process ; and cutting downwards in a semilunar direction, first on one side, and then on the other, so that the two incisions meet in the axilla, he forms two lateral flaps, which, being dissected back, expose the joint, and enable him to effect the disarticulation very readily, by pushing his knife through the capsular ligament, and then cutting roimd the glenoid cavity. 2. The surgeon introduces the point of a long narrow knife a little nearer the clavicle than the middle space between the acro- mion and coracoid processes, thrusts it downwards and back- wards untn it issues at the inferior margin of the axilla, and then cuts in the same direction, so as to form a large external flap. Having, in doing this, cut through part of the capsular ligament, he has no difficulty in passing the knife round the head of the humerus, and making a suitable flap from the re- maining parts, the assistant introducing his finger as soon as sufficient room is afforded for the purpose, and compressing the vessel. If the left arm is the subject of operation, the knife may