531 MOUTH. requires pressure together with astringents, such as the sulpliate of copper, and, if necessary, after the use of these means, ex- cision of the redundant poiiion. The acute form of the disease is very rare. It possesses an inflammatory character, and not only occasions great inconvenience by impeding deglutition and articulation, but has even proved fatal by causing suffoca- tion. The most effectual remedy consists in making two or three deep longitudinal incisions into, the upper surface of the distended organ. Eelief is thus very speedily obtained ; but if it should not be so, soon enough to protect the patient from the risk of suffocation, tracheotomy ought to be performed without delay. In cases of less urgency, leeches and fomentations applied to the throat prove sufficient. , Tonsils. The morbid conditions to which the tonsils are chiefly sub- ject, are inflammation, suppuration, ulceration, and chronic en- largement. Inflammation of the tonsils constitutes the most common kind of sore throat, Cynanche Tonsillaris. It is induced by exposure to cold,—is recognised by pain, and swelling in the region of the glands, particularly observable during deglutition, •—and is remedied by general or local bleeding, cathartics, and, after the intensity of the symptoms has been subdued, counter- irritation. When suppuration takes place, the matter is not confined to the gland, but extends into the surrounding cellular substance, and forms a diffused tumour of the fauces, which depresses the palate, renders swallowing almost impossible, and sometimes interferes with respiration also. If the disease be allowed to follow its course, evacuation of the matter is accomplished sooner or later by the natural process ; but, in order to hasten the patient's relief, and prevent the risk of suffocation that might attend the fluid escaping into the throat, while tlie patient is not prepared for it, as during sleep, it is right to puncture the abscess. In doing this, tlie situation of the carotid arteiy.