BLOOD-VESSELS. 133 Mr. Listen has recommended, that, in applying ligatures for the removal of erectile tumours, the integuments covering them should be divided by a crucial incision, and reflected so as to let the diseased structure alone be removed, in order to hasten the process, and save the sound skin. In a case of this disease in an infant, where the tumour was large and bleeding, Mr. Wardrop, in order to save the life of the patient from immediate danger, tied the carotid artery; and with success. He was induced to foUow this course by the unfortu- nate result of an attempt to cut out the nsevus in a similar case, where the child died during the operation. It would probably be safer practice, in such circumstances, to apply ligatures. Aneurismal Tumour of Bone. Tumours originating from the osseous tissue, and presenting the characters of aneurism, are not unfrequently met with. For the most part they consist of a soft yielding substance, wlaich diminishes in bulk under pressure, and possesses an expansive pulsation in consequence of its vascular texture. The characters derived from this source vary extremely in degree, and are some- times so distinctly marked as to siinulate_an^enrism_beyond the possibility of diagnosis, except from its situation. In such cases there is of course no means of remedy unless through removal. But it is believed from the record of some apparently well- authenticated instances, that there may also be found in bone tumours of a more truly aneurismal nature, in which there is merely a cavity containing blood proceeding from the ruptiu'e of arterial branches, and, therefore, amenable to ligature of the tiunk. While not prepared to deny the possibility of such a condition, I must regard it as extremely rare, having never met with a single example of its occurrence in the course of a long practice. The nearest approach to it which ever fell under my observation was that of a case related by Mr. Listen where he removed a portion of the scapula for a tumoiu- seeming to consist of blood contained in a cavity formed by the expanded peri- osteum ; but even here the disease returned in an unequivocal