PRINCIPLES OF SDRGEKY. 510 The bad consequences of the operation are acute inflam- mation, caused by the derangement of structure which it occasions, and a chronic form of inflammatory action, which is not only extremely distressing to the patient, but apt to termi- nate in blindness, by rendering the retina unable to perform its functions, or leading to effusion of lymph in the interior of the eye. The two last of these effects are usually ascribed to con- tinued irritation proceeding from the displaced lens pressing on the ciliary processes and retina. The treatment that has been explained, in reference to acute and chronic inflamrnation, must be employed according to the circumstances of the case. Eecliuation is performed in all respects as depression, except that the needle, after being applied to the anterior surface of the lens, is moved directly backwards instead of downwards. The advantage contended for in favour of this modification of couch- ing, is the smaller risk of inducing chronic inflammation by the pressure of the dislocated lens, which, however, is more apt to rise again than when depressed. Extraction of the cataract is an operation which was not practised previous to the last centuiy. It is effected by making an adequate opening in the cornea, puncturing the capsule, and thus allowing the lens to escape. The advantages of this pro- ceeding are—1. That the lens does not remain to excite ii'rita- tion; and, 2. That no part of the eye is necessarily injured except the cornea, which is not an irritable texture. The objec- tions to it are—1. The risk of wounding the iris, and of allow- ing the vitreous humour to escape along with the lens ; 2. The difficulty of the operation ; and, 3. The danger of the wound of the cornea not uniting by the first intention, and suppurating, in which case, collapse, with opacity of the eye, are the necessary consequences. The instruments required for the operation are a knife for cutting the cornea, and a small hook for rupturing the capsule. Eichter's and Beer's knives are the best for the purpose. They should increase from the point backwards in thickness as well as breadth, so as to prevent the aqueous humour from escaping