PELVIS. 405 Name. V. Miilbeny, or oxalate of ]ime, C. (Wollastou, 1797.) External Gliaracters, Colour, very dark-brown ; surface rough, \\ith large tubercles; cousistence very hai'd; size seldom exceed- iug that of a walnut; strac- ture conixDact, always single. VI. Cystid oxide, ("WoUaston,1810.) YeUow, semi-ti-ansparent, glistening; structiu'e com- pact ; confused crystalline mass ; small; very rare. Chemical Cliaracters, Under tbe blowpixie ex- pauds, and effloresces into a white powder, wliich when moistened, and ap- plied to tui-meric paper, causes a red stain ; not soluble in -pme. alkalies, nor in the miuiatic and nitric acids unless finely powdered, and assisted by heat. Exhales a peculiar odour under the blowpipe ; very soluble in acids and alka- lies. The symptoms of stone in the bladder are—1. Pain felt in making water, especially when the la^t drops ^ are exited, and/*H» for some time afterwards, refeiTed chieiiy to the point of the -i^i^" penis, bnt also to more distant parts, as the inner side of the thighs, testicles, x^articnlarly the left one, and even the feet. 2. Uneasy feelings of a similar kind, but not so intense, experi- enced upon any sudden motion of the body. 3. Frequent de- sire to make water, varying in degree from slight dimiuution of the length of the intervals, to almost incessant calls, which it is impossible to resist. 4. The urine being tinged with blood after rough motion. 6. An occasional interruption of the stream of urine. 6. A peculiar expression of suffering and anxiety in the patient's countenance. These symptoms vary extremely in their positive and relative severity, being always most intense when there is irritation of the bladder or general system, and bearing a direct proportion to the degree in which the urinary secretion is deranged ;—a fact not easily explained, but very important in respect to the treatment of the disease. Thus, contrary to what might be expected, the least annoyance attends the mulberry calculus. The uric acid kind -are accompanied with more, and the phosphates with most of all. As there are other diseased states of the urinary organs which give rise to comj^laints more or less similar to stone in the bladder, it is necessary for obtain- ing certain proof of its existence to introduce an instrument into the bladder, and search it. The operation performed with this