MORTIFICATION. 33 pal artery be at the same time obstructed, death of the part is certainly induced. Defect of nervous energy also predisposes to mortification. People who are paralytic in the inferior extremities, are apt to have sloughing induced by slight bruises. When the principal nerve of a limb is cut or otherwise interrupted, a tendency to mortification is frequently observed at the extremity. Irritability or excessive disposition to act.—Weak parts are always irritable; and hence this cause of mortification is to a certain extent comprehended in the former one. But, indpen- dently of weakness, and in the most opposite state of part or constitution, there is frequently an excessive disposition to over- action. People who exceed in eating or drinking, or who do not take exercise in proportion to their food, are liable to this morbid disposition, which is also sometimes met with as an origiual peculiarity of constitution. Excessive irritation or excitement to act.—Generally speaking, while other things are equal, the violence of inflammation is directly in proportion to the irritation. Whence it follows, that severe injuries, or other great and continued irritations, are apt to occasion mortification. Thus there is no constitution able to resist mortification from the shattering of a limb, or the iniiltra- tion of urine into the cellular substance. Treatment of Mortification. The prevention of mortification requires the use of means proper for obviating the predisposing causes. If there is general weakness of the system from the use of improper food, or any other cause, it must be remedied by a more wholesome regunen, and, if necessary, supported in the meantime by the administra- tion of wine, spirits, and other stimuli of speedy operation. If any cause of local weakness exist in operation, it ought, if possible, to be removed ; and the part which is weakened should be protected from all excitement. If the principal artery of a limb, for instance, has been tied, or if the part has been weakened by exposure to intense cold, every sort of local stimulating ap- D