290 PEINCIPLES OF SUEGEKY. from them has entirely or nearly ceased; and with the same view the patient should be made to lie on liis face or side, so as to favour the exit of fluids from the wound. If the injury of the pharynx is not very extensive, it will hardly be requisite to em- ploy any measures to assist the entrance of the food into the stomach, since the whole of what is attempted to be swallowed will not pass through the breach, and it is not to be desired that the diet should, for some days at least, exceed the limits of ex- treme moderation. But if the aperture is large, so as to admit one or more fingers, it will be prudent to introduce a tube, such as a flexible catheter, into the oesophagus, to serve as a channel for the conveyance of fluid articles. of nourishment, until the wound contracts sufficiently to render this unnecessary. The tube may be passed either by the nose or mouth, and also through the wound. When passed by the nose it may be allowed to re- main, and is not liable to displacement; but its introduction is extremely difficult, unless the surgeon takes advantage of the opening into the pharynx to direct the point of the instrument, which otherwise is apt to enter the rima glottidis, or engage itself in the lining membrane above the orifice of the oesophagus. When the tube, if judged necessary, has been introduced, and the hemorrhage is suppressed, the edges of the wound should be brought together by stitches, while the head is bent forwards, and retained in this position by a bandage or other means. The tube may be safely allowed to remain for several days ; but if retained during the whole period of healing, which may extend over many weeks, the irritation produced by its pressure, though perhaps not much felt by the patient, is apt to occasion ulceration of the mucous membrane, with abscess, or even exfohation of the car- tilages. After the first week, therefore, nourishment should be afforded either by the power of deglutition still possessed, or by the temporary introduction of a tube into the CESophagus thi'ough the mouth. When there is a wound into the air-passage alone, a tube is not reqiiired, unless the breach in the larynx or trachea is so large as to make it desirable to prevent the action of swallowing,