PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 228 voice, difficulty of breathing, convulsions, and palsy, occasionally supervene ; the head generally suffers more or less distortion to one side, in' consequence of the bone giving way under the ulcerative process; and at length, after months or years of misery, the patient dies, either gradually, from mere exhaustion, or sud- denly, from dislocation of the odontoid process of the second vertebra, which becoming detached from the occipital bone, presses backwards on the medulla oUongata. If an abscess forms, it is seldom evacuated previously to the patient's death, and sometimes opens into the pharynx. The subjects of this disease are mostly children and yoimg adults. The treatment requires rest of the head, together with counter-irritation, effected early and powerfully by the actual cautery; and practitioners ought to beware of mistaking the first indications of this destructive disease for slight rheumatic \ailments deserving of no particular attention. The preparations . 'in museums prove that the cure of the disease, though perhaps jvery rare, is not impossible. The other disease of the spine which requires to be particu- larly considered, on account, not of its danger to life, but its frequency and important consequences in respect to the patient s appearance and comfort, consists merely in curvature, without any sj)ecific or general morbid affection of the osseous system. It is named the Lateral curvature; its direction being very rarely from behind forwards, and almost invariably from side to side. It occurs chiefly between the ages of seven and seventeen; and, with few exceptions, is confined to the female sex. It generally comes on insidiously, increases progressively, and, terminating at a more or less advanced stage, leaves the patient permanently disfigured in a proportionate degree. The part of the spine principally affected is the dorsal portion, which, bending to one side, almost always to the right one, makes the corresponding scapula and shoulder seem larger and more prominent than usual. As the disease advances, a counter-balancing bend in the opposite direction takes place in the lumbar region, causing the hip concerned to appear enlarged. When the spinous pro-