303 THEOAT. not seem deserving of adoption. The operation has been some- times found extremely difficult, owiug to the displacement and overlapping of the vessels by the tumour—it has even proved fatal, by giving rise to extensive ulceration—it has rarely or never effected an entire removal of the swelling—and has generally iaduced only a very partial absorption. The plan of passing a seton through the tumour, in order to excite suppura- tion, and a consequent diminution of bulk, which was brought into notice by Quadri of Naples (1818), but had been proposed and even practised previously, is easily executed, and seldom leads to any serious bad consequences. Fatal cases, however, have been observed by Chelius and others, in consequence of the centre of the tuinour entering into a profuse suppuration, while the rigidity of the parietes prevented their contraction, so as to diminish the size of the cavity; and the good effects of the practice have been at best but of partial extent. Except, there- fore, ia cases where circumstances render it very desirable to reduce the size of the swelling, there seems to be little encourage- ment to employ the seton. If it is thought proper to do so, a skein of silk or cotton should be conveyed through the anterior part of the tumour where there is no danger of woundiug the large arteries; compresses if necessary are then to be applied over the orifices, and fomentations with poultices must be em- ployed afterwards, if required by the occurrence of inflammatory consequences. When suppuration commences, the seton may be changed, and when the tumour ceases to diminish, it may be withdrawn altogether. Incisions into the tumour, and the appli- cation of caustic to it, which act on the same principle as the seton, are less eligible means, inasmuch as they are more severe in their administration, and not so efficient. Mr. Listen em- ployed the ligature with success, previously dissecting the integuments of the projecting part of the tumour, and then transfixing its base ; and I once adopted this method in the case of a lady who had a lobe of the thyroid enlarged into a round tumour with such a narrow neck as to appear altogether insulated.