rHINCIPLES OF SURGEUy. 178 have little effect "while the cause of irritation continues in operation, it is always better to reduce the bones into their proper situation as soon as possible, and then keep the limb steady by means of splints. The best material for splints is thick pasteboard, or thin wood split longitudinally into narrow portions, and covered with leather. They should be long enough to extend beyond both ends of the fractured bones, and broad enough to equal the diameter of the limb. Those of the former kind must be well softened by immersion in hot water, or being thoroughly moistened with it, and then padded with carded tow, lint, or flannel. There are usually required two splints, one for each side of the limb, and the best bandages for retaining them are the loQpgdJbandage, the tailed^^i^ijdage, and the cony^on (^djer. The first of these consists of narrow strips of calico, about an inch and a half broad, and long enough when folded double to pass round the limb with a few inches of excess ; one of the ends is then drawn through the loop and tied to the other. The number of pieces thus applied varies with the length of the limb, as there ought not to be more than three inches between them. This bandage is useful when the degree of tightness requires to be occasionally altered, and the Hmb cannot be moved without disadvantage. The tailed bandage consists of a common roller, divided into pieces long enough to encircle the limb somewhat obliquely, and cross over far enough to keep their hold. Sixj eight, ten, or whatever number of these the length of the limb requires, are placed transversely under it, so that each overlaps the one above it about two-thirds. The lowest one is then drawn tightly round the Kmb, and while its ends are stiU held by the surgeon or his assistant, the one next above is applied in the same manner, so as to secure the former, and so on until the whole are thus disposed of. This bandage effects a very equable pressure, and can be changed without disturbing the limb ; but it does not admit of partial relaxation or tightening. The common roller is the simplest and easiest of all the means for the purpose, but can be only used where the limb may be moved without any inconvenience. There are various contrivances for assisting the