471 BRAIN, appears unusually tense, and presents a bluish appearance, an opening ought not to be made through the membrane, since there is great danger in cutting into the cavity of the arachnoid, and little advantage is to be expected from doing so, as the blood in such a case is spread over an extensive surface, and the brain is in some measure relieved from pressure by the aperture that has been formed in the bone. Fractures of the cranium would be of very little consequence, were it not on account of their connection with injury of the organs which it contains. In reference to this, they may be conveniently divided into Fissures, Depressions, and Punctures. A Fissure, as the name implies, is merely a solution of con- tinuity in the bone, without any material displacement of the edges of the fracture. It is caused by diffused force acting directly, or transmitted to a distant part of the cranium by the intermediate portion remaining entire, and conducting it where the strength is less able to resist. The base of the cranium is generally the part broken in the latter way, or by contre-coup, as it is called; and the fissure usually extends through the Gu^a©^:3 process of the occipital bone, transversely or obliquely backwards. Bleeding from the ear often accompanies, though it • does not necessarily proceed from, a fissure of tliis kind. Fis- sures, as might be expected from the mode of their production, are in general followed either by sjjeedy death, or by violent in- flammation of the cerebral substance and membranes. These bad consequences were attributed by the old surgeons to the split of the bone allowing noxious transudations from without inwards, and their practice consisted in sawing away with the trepan, as far as they possibly could, all traces of the injured bone. In the more sound pathology of the present day, fissiires are regarded as quite innocent so far as regards their own effects, —but as affording ground of unfavourable prognosis, by shewing that the skull has been subjected to a great degree of concus- sion. They are, however, seldom known to exist until after death, since no one now thinks of searching for them, as was the custom formerly.