BLOOD-VESSELS, 139 introduced a method of great simplicity and perfect safety, wMch consists in passing a common pin throiigli the sldn, under the vein, while it is compressed and held outwards by a finger and thumb, and then tying a thread tightly round it. A little redness and swelling follow, and -ulceration soon succeeding detaches the pins with hardly any pain, and no danger. It is still questionable, however, whether obstruction of the vein merely at a part of its course is adequate to afford permanent relief; and in the present state of information upon the subject, it seems that the most judicious course in treating varix is to be satisfied with remedying its bad consequences, and using means for preventing their occurrence. Aneurismal Varix. When a contiguous artery and vein are wounded together, it occasionally happens that the orifices of the vessels remaining undisturbed, the blood is allowed to pass from the artery into the vein; the consequence of which is, that the latter vessel \ becomes large and tortuous, communicating a jarring sort of / sensation to the hand which examines it, and a peculiar thrill- ing sound, like the purring of a cat, or the prolonged articulation ). of the letter R (bruit de rape), is heard when the ear is brought near the injured part. Jhe limb becomes oedematous and cold, <- owing to the want of its usual supply of nutritious fluid, the greater part of which, instead of proceeding onwards to its destination, flows back to the heart, and also to the obstacle opposed to the return of the blood from the veins below, by the distension of those above, which is caused-by the forcible current of the artery. From the same caujse there is hardly any pulsation of the artery below the part where it is wounded, while it pulsates above more forcibly than it did before. Dr. Hunter first described this disease (1756), but Dr. Cleg- horn of Dublin suggested the name which is used to denote it (1765). It is most apt to occur at the bend of the arm, where the median basilic vein lies over the humeral artery, but may do so in any part of the body where a largo artery and vein are