440 ■ PRINCIPLES OF SURGEBY. general depletion, together with leeches or scarifications, are the most effectual means for this purpose. If sores exist, they must be treated according to the prkiciples already explained; and the operation for phymosis ought to be avoided if possible, even though the contraction may have existed in a permanent form previous to their production. In this case the prepuce should be restored to its ordinary state before being laid open, as the cure will thus be completed in a few days instead of weeks, which would probably be required if the incision were made during the diseased condition of the parts. Nevertheless if the sores prove very obstinate or irritable, this inconvenience must be encountered ; but a careful and patient trial should always in the first instance be given to those means that are calculated to supersede the necessity of an operation. When the phymosis depends upon or is connected with warts, the prepuce should withoiit delay be sKt open, as these excrescences cannot be removed so long as it remains contracted. It sometimes happens, in consequence of phymosis being associated with an ulcerated state of the respective surfaces of the glans and pre- puce, that adhesion takes place between them. Attempts have been made to remedy this preternatural connection by dissection and careful interposition of dressings ; but this procedure, which is extremely painful, hardly does any good, as the strong ten- dency to contract during cicatrization reduces the parts nearly to the same state in wliich they were previously to the operation. In such cases, however, it is found advantageous to slit open the prepuce as far as it is not adherent to the glans. Pamplvymosis. In Paraphymosis the orifice of the prepuce is drawn back behind the glans, and causes compression or strangulation of its neck. This can happen only where the opening is narrow, with- out being so much so as to occasion complete phymosis. The narrowest pait of the prepuce is just at the orifice, where the skin and mucous membrane meet; and when it is drawn back so as to denude the glans, the internal lining is apt to protrude