BLOOD-VESSELS. 95 weakened part from depression on the one hand, and excitement on the other. It ought to be warmly clothed, hut guarded against external heat, and all other stimulants. Should mortifi- cation ensue, amputation ought to be performed above the obstruction, unless a line of demarcation appears lower. Diseased nutrition of the internal coat is a very common occurrence, especially in advanced age and unsound constitutions. The consequence of it is a deposition either of a soft pultaceous substance, which is named its atheromatous degeneration, or of calcareous scales, which constitute what is called ossification of the artery. In both cases, this morbid change affects principally the inner coat, a slender film on the surface of wliich remains as a lining to the vessel The two diseased alterations generally exist together, in variable proportion. They affect most fre- quently the aorta, and arteries of the inferior extremities. They seldom take place extensively before the age of sixty ; but are then so common, that they might almost be regarded as natural occurrences. Males are more subject to them than females. When a large artery becomes ossified it usually dilates, and thus transmits the blood more readily than might be expected from the thickening which it suffers; but the smaller ones become lessened in their capacity, so as to render the passage much less free than in the natural state ; and the patient com- plains of weakness, pain, and other uncomfortable sensations, with more or less emaciation in the part of the body where the Tessel is distributed. Wounds of Arteries. When an artery is wounded, the blood issues from it with great force in a stream, which is either continuous, or varied by successive pulsatory jets, according to the size of the vessel, and the aperture made in its coats. Unless the artery concerned be very large, or particularly cii'cumstanced, as will be explained hereafter,—in which cases hemorrhage does not cease until the individual has suffered a fatal depletion,—the flow of blood gradually diminishes, and after a time ceases, when the wound