PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEHY. 224 SO as to make the spinous processes of the affected vertebr£e ap- pear more projecting than usual; the patient loses his appetite and strength; becoming dull and listless, and preferring the . horizontal posture ; his inferior extremities are reduced in bulk, and affected with numbness and rigidity; whence the gait is awkward and vacillating, the legs frequently crossing each other, while the trunk is held peculiarly erect and rigid, to protect the \ diseased part from motion. As the disease advances, the patient 1 sometimes loses the use of his limbs entirely; and, in addition I to his other complaints, is generally distressed by an uneasy jfeehng at the pit of his stomach, and a painful sense of constric- •tion round the chest, in the region of the diaphragm. Suppura- tion usually ensues, and the matter is either confined to the neighbourhood of the bone affected, or descends in the interstices of the soft parts so as to present itself lower down. When the dorsal vertebrte are affected, it generally points in the loins, and constitutes a lumbar abscess; when the lower dorsal or the lumbar vertebrae , are concerned, it for the most part passes down along the p^o^s muscle, and appears in the groin, sometimes above, but more frequently below, Poupart's ligament, when it is named a psoas abscess. The matter, in order to point above Poupart's ligament, must perforate the abdominal muscles and fascine, through means of absorption, which happens generally by a small aperture ; the pus thus comes to be quite superficial, and diffused under the sldn, from which circumstance the abscess may be erroneously regarded as entirely subcutaneous. It must be ob- served, that though chronic abscesses in the loins or groin most frequently proceed from diseased bone, they may exist independ- ently of such sources, just as in other parts of the body. When the pus ceases to be confined near the bone, and begins to drain away from it, the patient generally experiences great relief from his complaints. The pain becomes very much less- ened, and the use of his limbs is often in some measure or alto- gether regained. But this amendment is usually accompanied by a serious change to the worse in another respect; since the vertebral column is apt to bend under its superincumbent weight,