DISEASED NUTRITION. 71 when their situation is dependent. Anything that irritates, or tends to inflame them, promotes tlieir increase ; and opposite cir- cumstances are attended with opposite effects; rest, low diet, cold applications, and leeches, lessen the activity of their enlargement. When inflammation attacks a morbid growth, it either termi- nates in resolution or mortification, or leads the way to some of the actions which have been described. But, whatever the action may be, it almost invariably proceeds in a peculiar sort of manner, so as to prevent a cure, or any satisfactory termination. Morbid growths deserve great attention, not only on account of the distressing consequences which thus ensue, but also in regard to the deformity and inconvenience which they occasion directly by their presence. They may be removed in three ways,—viz., by absorption, mortification, and excision. In order to determine on the choice of these means, and execute them properly, it is necessary to be acquainted more particularly with the different kinds of morbid growths. Mr. Abernethy's arrangement and nomenclature of tumours used to be generally adopted. He divided them into Sarcomatous and Encysted; the former being solid ; the latter composed of a cyst containing matters of variable consistence. Of late years, the microscopical investigation of morbid growths has been pursued with great assiduity, in expectation of its affording better characters for discrimination than those appreciable by simple inspection. But the hopes thus enter- tained have been very imperfectly realized, in consequence of the variations connected with diversity of texture ; and it must be confessed that little, if any, practical advantage has been obtained from tliis source—while the trust reposed in it, by withdrawing attention from the diagnostics presented by the sensible qualities, attendant circumstances, and histories of tumours, has in many cases led to the most serious mistakes. It is not impossible that the microscope may yet penetrate the obscurity which now renders its observations so uncertain; and then the distinctive characters hitherto in use may be safely laid aside. But in the meanwhile, I believe that a surgeon will best discharge the duty