BLOOD-VESSELS. 131 not of congenital origin, tliey must be regarded as questionable exceptions from the general rule. Ngevus is an enlargement of the venous capillaries, wliich may be confined to the surface of the cutis or affect the sub- cutaneous texture. There is little swelling, but very obvious discoloration, generally of a red or purple hue. There is no pulsation, but turgescence when the circulation is disturbed, especially by any circumstances which obstruct the passage of the veins. The disease is most frequent in the head and trunk, but also appears on the extremities. It is always congenital; and when first observed is usually of very small extent, being merely a point or speck, which increases rapidly after birth. After attaining a certain size, it generally either remains sta- tionary, disappears by absoi-ption, or ulcerates and scabs away by. degrees. The treatment ought to vary according to cu'cum stances. If the nsevus is stationary, and not inconvenient, it ought not to be meddled with. If increasing, or so situated as to occasion deformity, it ought to be cut out or removed by ligature—two or more threads being passed under its base, as will be more particularly explained immediately, and tied tightly, so as to effect complete strangulation. The application of pressure and astringent washes, and also local irritation, such as that pro- duced by vaccination, in order to cause absorption or the ulcer- ating and the scabbiag process, are not only very uncertain and ineffectual, but apt to leave unseemly marks, hardly less objec- tionable than that for the removal of which they are employed. When the nrevus is small and superficial, it may be removed by punctures with a pin dipped in nitric acid. The subcutaneous nsevus exists either alone, or, more gene- rally, along with the superficial ntevus; lOce which, it seems to depend more upon the veins than the arteries. It occurs in the same parts of the body, and is always congenital. At the time of birth it occasionally has attained a large size, and soon after- wards begins to bleed profusely. But much more frequently it increases slowly from a veiy small commencement, and may not