PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 448 The fluid is then thrown Lii and allowed to remain. Pain stretch- ing up along the groin, towards the loins, and occasionally slight nausea, are in general experienced during the operation. After it is concluded the patient goes to bed, and seldom feels much inconvenience from what has been done until the following day, when the testicle swells, and more or less fluid is effused iato the vaginal cavity. A slight degree of constitutional disturbance keeps pace with these local changes, and both are usually at their height on the third day. The swelling then begins to lessen, the feverish state subsides, and the patient is able in a few days to resume his ordinary occupation, though several weeks generally elapse before the swelling is completely dis- persed. It is observed that the more solid the swelling conse- quent upon the operation is, the more speedy and complete is the cure. The hydrocele of children does not require the radical opera- tion, as the fluid is readily absorbed under the influence of a discutient lotion, such as a solution of muriate of ammonia with spuits and vinegar, or, at all events, seldom returns if such a lotion be applied after evacuation by a trocar or lancet. Hcematocele. The tunica vaginalis is sometimes distended with fluid, not clear and serous-looldng, but of a dark-brown colour, and when allowed to remain at rest after being drawn off, depositing a layer of florid blood; while the cavity, if laid open, is generally found to contain more or less fibrinous coagulum, partly detached, partly adherent to the sides of the sac. The disease is then named Hsematocele. It is recognised by the characters of hydrocele, with the exception of translucency, which is altogether absent; but, as this feature may depend on unusual thickness of the sac, the only certain diagnostic is obtained by pimcturing the tumom-. Hsematocele is sometimes associated with diseases of the testicle. The origin of the blood which constitutes it is involved in great obsciu-ity; but, on the whole, seems to be ascribed with most probability to hemorrhage from the vessels of the tunica vaginalis.