PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY % 80 cure for carcinoma except extirpation. Mucli may perhaps be done in tlie way of prevention, by protecting those parts of the body most subject to the disease from the influence of iiTitation, at that period of life when the disposition to it exists most strongly. Tranquillity of body and mind, regularity in the secre- tions, and moderate diet, conduce to the same effect. The pain of cancer may be soothed by opiates, used both externally and internally. Hemlock poultices, lotions and ointments of acetate of lead, carbonate of iron, various preparations of arsenic, pressure, and an endless catalogue of applications, might be mentioned, as having been more or less confided in for correcting the diseased action, and instituting a healing one. They sometimes afford temporary relief, but never effect any permanent alteration to the better. The only proceeding that deserves at all to be considered a remedy for carcinoma, is removal of the morbid structure. This may be done sometimes by caxistics, such as sulphuric acid and the chloride of zinc, applied in substance or formed into a paste ; but these means are very apt to destroy the disease only partially, and consequently do harm instead of good, by exciting greater activity in the portion that remains. The knife or scissors effect the extirpation most easUy and securely. It would be subjecting the patient to useless pain, and bringing surgery into discredit, to attempt extirpation in cases where the extent or connections of the disease prevented its complete removal It is also incumbent on the surgeon to search very ^carefully for glands in the course of the absorbents that may have become affected, since it appears that the result of operations for carci- noma, when the glands are affected, is almost invariably unsatis- factory, however perfectly they may seem to be taken away. The reason of this probably is, that the glands do not participate in the disease, unless the system be strongly disposed to it, and consequently their removal, however freely and effectually executed, cannot prevent the patient's relapse. In performing the operation, it is not sufficient to take away the mere indurated mass, as the surrounding parts are always more or less vitiated