EXTERNAL INJUKIES. 149 Chilblains are most apt to occur in persons wlio possess weak powers of circulation, especially young females, and on tlie same principle take place chiefly at the extremities of the body, viz., the hands and feet. They ought to be guarded against by avoiding sudden and severe alternations of cold with heat. When formed, they should be protected from cold, and sup- ported in their actions by stimulating embrocations, such as camphorated oil, strong spu'its, or a mixture of tind. sap. c. opio, with tind. lyttce, in the proportion of six of the former to one of the latter. The ulcer of chilblains presents the appearance of a smooth superficial excavation, with thick white edges, and a peculiar viscid slimy discharge. It heals most readily under the unguenium oxydi hydrargyri ritbri. More intense cold not only weakens, but entirely suspends vital action. The part becomes pale, insensible, and shrivelled, and is said to be Frost-hitien. The extremities of the body, such as the fingers and toes, the ears and the nose, are most liable to be thus affected, both from their situation, and comparatively languid circulation. A frost-bitten part is not dead, and when fi-eed from the influence of the cold, regains its power of action. It is difBcult to determine how long the torpor may last without permanently depriving the part^ of life ; but there is reason to suppose that the period is considerable; and it appears from the relation of Sir John Franklin, that an animal may be restored to its usual actions even after its whole body has been frozen. In treating frost-bite, the great object should be to moderate the reaction, since, if it proves excessive, mortification readily occurs, both because the part is weak, and because its u'ritability being consequently increased, the inflammation is apt to be in- tense. Tlie best method is to use friction without any external heat, or even to effect it through a cold medium, such as that of snow, in order to promote the return of circulation, and at the same time guard against excitement. If inflammation comes on, the part ought to be soothed with poiiltices, or anodyne and astringent applications, such as a warm solution of acetate of