BRAIN. 481 consequences of which are coldness, emaciation, and proneness to ulceration and sloughing. If the respective extremities are not separated to any great distance, they generally become united by a new-formed substance, and in some rare cases, nervous fibrils have been traced from one extremity to the other. If a nerve is only partially divided, the wound is generally slow in healing—^uneasy sensations are felt by the patient, who refers them to the part where the injured nerve is distributed—and the edges of the external sore are red, tumid, and extremely sensitive to external impressions. In such cases, warm fomentations, and other soothing means, afford some relief; but the most effectual measure for rendering it complete, is to cut the wounded nerve entirely across. "When a foreign body is lodged in the substance of a nerve, the same symptoms that have just been mentioned are produced in an aggravated degree. Agonising pain and spasmodic contraction of the muscles are then induced, so as to make the patient willingly accept the severest terms for obtain- ing a rqlease from his sufferings. Excision o^ the irritating body ought of coui'se to be performed if practicable, and, if this cannot be done, amputation miist be resorted to as the only remedy. Symptoms very similar to those resulting from injury of a nerve sometimes occur without any local circumstances to account for them. The part affected is generally the face. The pain and spasmodic action of the muscles are not constant, but occur in paroxysms, which either come on spontaneously, or are induced by movement of the jaws, the operation of cold, heat, or stimu- lating food, and often mere mental emotion. This Tic-Boulour- eux, as it is called, was formerly treated by simply dividing the nerve affected; but with so little permanent benefit, that the operation fell into great discredit, and was replaced by the use of constitutional remedies, such as a succession of smart purga- tives, especially croton oil, and the carbonate of iron, administered in large doses. But it has lately been found that more perma- nent tliough not lasting relief may be obtained by removing a portion of the nerve, so as to insure its complete division and effectually prevent its reunion. 2 I