PRINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. 508 that the power remains of discerning the outlines of objects held between the eye and the light; 3. Mobility of the Iris, and the absence of symptoms denoting affection of the nervous system. As the opacity usually takes place slowly and gradually, the indications of it are at first very slight, and increase almost im- perceptibly until it is completed. During the progi-ess of the disease the patient sees best in an obscure light, as the pupil then dilates most, and exposes the lens towards its circumference, where the opacity is less, partly from its thinness at this part, and also from the morbid change beginning at the centre. Belladonna or other applications that dilate the pupil, improve the power of vision, on the same principle, so long as they con- tinue in operation. A great variety of means have been tried for arresting the progress of cataract, and inducing removal of the opacity by absorption, so as to restore the lens to its natural state. None of these have had the desired effect; and it is now admitted, that the only mode of relieving the patient is to remove the opaque body from the situation in which it impedes the entrance of light. The operations performed with this view may be divided into three kinds:—1. Those which merely alter the position of the lens, so as to prevent it from obstructing vision ; 2. Those which extract the lens altogether from the eye ; and, 3. Those which disintegrate the structure of the lens, and expose it to a process, whether of solution or absorption is not well ascertained, but which gradually diminishes its fragments, and finally removes all trace of them. > The fii'st of these methods, or Couching, as it is called, may be effected either by depression or reclination. In the former of these the lens is made to descend into the lower part of the eye- ball, still preserving its original situation in regard to the parietes of the cavity. In the latter its upper edge is turned backwards, so that the anterior surface is directed upwards and the posterior one downwards. Various instruments, named couch- ing-needles, have been contrived for performing depression ; but