401 PELVIS. deposits either crystallised grains of uric acid that have separated from the iiuid in the kidney, or a red lateritious sediment on cooling. 2. An irritated state of the kidneys, attended with pain of the loins, quickness of the pulse, and anxiety of the coun- tenance ; in which case the urine is copious, pale-coloured, and deposits such a quantity of the phosphates on cooling as to become turbid and white like milk. 3. A similar state of irri- tation, chiefly affecting the bladder, and attended with a copious secretion of mucus; in which case the urine has a very dis- agreeable ammoniacal odour, and deposits the triple phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, either crystallised or amorphous. The condition of the urine during the deposition of oxalate of lime, and some animal substances that wiU be mentioned hereafter, has not yet been well ascertained. From an attentive consideration of these circumstances, it appears that the presence 'of a calculus may promote the for- mation of concretions from the urine—1. By affording a nucleus; 2. By irritating the bladder, increasing the quantity of mucus, and accelerating the putrefactive decomposition of the urine, during which the urea is converted into ammonia, and an excess of the triple phosphate results ; 3. By causing sympathetic irri- tation of the kidneys, which perverts their secreting action, and leads to the formation of the earthy salts in redundant quantity; 4. By sympathetically irritating the stomach, and occasioning imperfect digestion, attended with acidity. By operating in one or more of these modes, the nucleus, when once formed, always increases, and even tends to cause the generation of new ones. The nucleus, unless when consisting of a foreign body introduced into the bladder, is almost invariably constituted by a concretion formed in the kidney. This renal calculus, in the great majority of cases, as has been already observed, is an aggregation of uric acid grains, but may also consist of oxalate of lime. It is often observed by patients, that previously to suffering from the symptoms of calculus, they were accustomed to pass red grains of uric acid—sand or gravel as they are usually called—and that they ceased to do so for some time before the commencement of 2 D