192 PRINCIPLES OT" SURGEKY. which is rendered still more obvious by the sternal extremity of the bone being drawn upwards by the stemo-mastoid muscle, and the shoulder being depressed, brought nearer the sternum, and rendered more prominent forwards by the action of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, assisted by the weight of the limb. In children the displacement is much less observable than in adults, owing to the lightness of their arms, and hence the injury in them is frequently not discovered until the swell- ing which attends reunion attracts attention. Great difficulty seems to have been experienced in treating this fracture efficiently ; and Desault's method, though compli- cated and troublesome, was formerly regarded the best for the purpose. It consists of a thick cushion fixed in the axilla, to serve as a fulcnmi for removing the shoulder outwards to its proper position, by means of the humerus when brought close to the side; a bandage to keep this cushion steady, another to fasten the arm, and a third to elevate the shoulder, by drawing up the affected elbow. But when the cushion in the axilla is secured so high and so firmly as really to serve the office of a fulcrum, it compresses the nerves and blood-vessels beyond endurance ; and if it be allowed to descend so as not to do this, it increases the distortion, by separating the arm from the side. The method which, on the whole, appears to be the most simple and efficient, is to brace back the shoulders by a figure of 8 bandage, or shoulder-straps drawn together by any simple con- trivance : and having thus obviated the distortion, except so far as regards the depression caused by the weight of the limb, to remedy this also,' by placing the affected arm obliquely across the chest, with the fingers pointing to the opposite acromion, and securing it iii this position by means of a shng or bandage. In difficult cases the patient should be treated in the horizontal posture, which of course greatly lessens the tendency to dis- placement. The scapiila may be broken through the acromion process, ^egk, body, and inferior angle. The first of these fractures is the most common, the others being very rare. It happens from