312 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. The first of these divisions comprehends the painful indura- tions which occur at the time of puberty, and in the early months of pregnancy—also a more chronic condition of the same kind, not unfrequently met with in middle-aged women—and lastly, a painful state which is named the Irritable Breast. The second , division includes the Acute or Milk Abscess, as it is usually. / called, and the Chronic Abscess. The third division embraces Simple Sarcomatous, Fibrous, and Cystic Tumours ; and the fourth, those of the Carcinomatous, and Medullary or Cerebri- form kinds. In both sexes about the time of puberty the breasts frequently become enlarged, hard, and painful, but soon return to their ordinary condition, and seldom require any treatment further than the application of fomentations or some soothing lotion. This state of excitement, which attends the development of the sexual organs, is apt to occasion alarm, from being supposed to denote malignant action of the part, and, there is reason to fear, has even led to excision of the gland. Tlie same observations will apply to the painful and slightly swollen state of the breast which is observed at the commencement of pregnancy. Induration of the breast at a more advanced age is a very common effect either of slight direct irritations, as blows or bruises, or of the indirect irritation which proceeds from suppres- sion or derangement of the natural secretions. Women about the middle period of life, particularly those who are not married, or who have no children, are most liable to this complaint. It generally affects both breasts, but is sometimes h'mited to a lobe , ^ of one. The induration is not well defined. It does not feel ' very hard or heavy, and, if attended with pain, the patient de- scribes her uneasiness as a sort of burning sensation, which is not always equally severe, but varies much in this respect, according to the state of mind and body. The patient's appear- ance and time of life, the history of the tumour, its consistence, and the readiness with which it generally yields to proper treat- ment, distinguish this from more serious affections of the mamma. When the breast is particularly painful, leeches and warm