537 MOUTH. eliarged, and the substance of the mass remains as dense and entire as at the commencement of its formation. This kind of growth is usually met with in young persons between puberty and middle age. The only method of relieving the patient from these tumours, whether of the one kind or the other, is complete excision. This used to be attempted by cutting out with saws, forceps, and chisels, the diseased mass alone, the adjacent part of the jaw being allowed to remain. Such operations, with hardly any exception, proved ineffectual in accomplishing a radical cure, as the smallest portion of bone possessing the morbid disposition, that was not eradicated, insured a return of the disease. The gi'eat improvement has been introduced into modern surgery of amputating the jaws when they become the seat of these forma- tions, in a part of their extent which is perfectly free from enlargement, or any other indication of unhealthy action. The names of Grafe of Berlin, Dupuytren of Paris, Mott of ISTew York, Crampton and Cusack of Dublin, and Gensoul of Lyons, are most deserving of mention for adopting and establishing this operation. It has been performed with almost uniform success in cases of the fibro-cartilaginous tumour both of the upper and the lower jaw, and also on account of the medullary growth. From the nature of the bones entering into the formation of the upper jaw, complete eradication is practicable only when the disease is confined to the superior maxillary bone. Growths from the fore- head and bones of the nose must be carefully distinguished from those that, possess this limited origin, as no satisfactory result would attend their removal. In performing excision of the superior maxillary bone, an incision should be made through the cheek, extending either from the junction of the maxillary and malar bones to the angle of the mouth, or from the inner angle of the eye directly down through the lip. The integument having been dissected from the tumour, and the margin of the orbit exposed, one blade of a large pair of cutting-pliers is mtroduced into the nose, and the other into the orbit, so as to divide the nasal process of the