525 MOUTH. The impediments to deglutition and artiralation, and the de- formity which result from these imperfections, render their complete and early reparation very desirable; but several cir- cumstances in respect to the age of the patient must be taken into consideration before any operation for this purpose is at- tempted. Infants before the sixth month, especially if weak or irritable, are apt to die from convulsions or exhaustion occa- sioned by the hemorrhage which attends it; and, besides this danger, there is another of less magnitude, which is the risk of union between the edges of the lip not taking place properly. Between the sixth and twelfth months the process of dentition is unfavourable for the operation. The surgeon, therefore, if he has his choice, should not operate before the child is two years old, and in no case ought he to do so before the fifth month, or during the process of dentition, until all the incisors at least have appeared. So long as the child is at the breast the opera- tion, of course, cannot be performed ; and it must consequently be weaned, if an early attempt at reparation should be deter- mined on. When the jaw is preternaturally projecting, the pro- minent portion must be either reduced to a proper level by continued pressure, or removed by the knife. If of small extent it may be treated in the former way, but if at all considerable it requires the latter; and it is evidently proper to execiite this preliminary part of the process as soon as possible, in order to render the condition of the lip more favourable for union when the time fol- attempting it arrives. The operation must be varied in some respects according to circumstances, but always essentially consists in joining the edges of the lip after making them raw by paring the respective surfaces. This may be done by means of scissors, or by embrac-^ ing the lip between the blades of forceps and shaving off the portion of the edge that is allowed to project beyond them, or lastly, by seizing the edge of the lip by catch-forceps while it is held between the finger and thumb of an assistant, transfixing it with a Icnife a little above the angle where the two edges meet, and then removing a slice of the requisite extent or thickness.