397 PELVIS. lu some raxe cases, the opening is formed into the rectum, and then the patient may escape the dangerous consequences of urinary effusion which have been described; but such an occur- rence is too rare to afford any reasonable ground for expecting relief from the unaided powers of the system, or withholding the means that effect evacuation more safely. These means consist in puncturing the bladder, so as to draw off its contents without allowing them to enter the cellular substance. If the surgeon possesses the requisite tact for introducing instruments into the bladder throixgh the urethra, and has the treatment of the case from its commencement, he will very rarely, perhaps never, be under the necessity of resorting to this pimcture. But should he not be able to draw off the water by the catheter, either from his own want of dexterity, or from the existence of obstacles caused by mismanagement, there can be no hesi- tation in having recourse to the operation. Puncture of the bladder, however performed, is always attended with more or less danger of urinous infiltration; but a doubtful remedy is better than none ; and there are few states of disease more hopeless than complete retention of urine, permitted to . follow its own course. There are three methods of puncturing the bladder—1, above the pubis; 2, by the perineum; 3, from the rectum. The opera- tion above the pubis is performed by making an incision an inch and a half long from the symphysis upwards, exactly in the mesial jjlaue, and then separating the edges of the recti, or rather pyramidal muscles, with the fingers and a little assistance from the knife, and lastly pushing a trocar into the distended bladder, which can now be distinctly felt. In order to avoid transfixing the neck, it is necessary to direct the instrument not perpendi- cularly, but obliquely backwards, from the point where it enters the cavity behind the pubis. The rigidity of a silver tube is apt to occasion injurious imtation, particularly as it must be long, and deeply introduced, to prevent any risk of its escape from the contraction of the coats of the bladder; but the canula must not be withdrawn without substituting some other channel