NOSE, 545 large projecting teetli. Several pairs in general are required to be fixed in succession as space is gained,—and the strength of two or more stout assistants has been found necessary to effect the evulsion. In performing such operations, the surgeon should be prepared for a profuse hemorrhage,—and, as a precautionary measiu'e, ought to pass a thread for plugging the posterior open- ing of the nostril, if this should prove necessary. Polypous growths of different kinds sometimes, instead of growing forwards into the nose, descend into the pharynx. In such cases the best plan is to detach the polypus by seizing its roots with forceps introduced through the nostril, and then draw it from the nose or push it iato the throat. Ulcers and other Diseases of the Aim of the Nose. It has already been observed that warty excrescences on the face are apt to degenerate into malignant sores in the advanced period of life. When cancers, originating from this or other sources, are seated over the cartilages of the nose, it is prudent to cut away a portion of the whole thickness of the jDarietes, as the disease can hardly be extu-pated otherwise, and ineffectual attempts would probably promote the diseased process. If this operation is performed early, the cut edges may be brought together and united so as to leave no perceptible deformity. The skin of the nose is liable to an over-growth, which at first makes it present a warty or tuberculated appearance, but when more advanced, completely alters its shape, and constitutes large, irregular, pendulous masses, which occasion great defor- mity and inconvenience. In cases of this kind, that are so aggravated as to warrant an operation, the redundant substance may be shaved off, while the surgeon, by keeping his finger in the nostril, ascertains the extent to which he should cut. Cold applications restrain the bleeding; and when cicatrization is completed, wonderfully little trace of the disease remains. It may afterwards return and require similar treatment, but the operation is seldom necessary more than once. Lupus, or noli me tangere, is an obstinate ulceration of the 2 N