PRINCIPLES OF SURGEPvy. 454 capsule, tended to expand, when tlie coverings were perforated so as to permit its doing so. He ascertained that if the excres- cence were cut off or destroyed by caustic, the remaining surface granulated ; and, though it might repeatedly protrude again to a smaller extent, that ultimately, through a repetition of the same means, followed by pressure, it became completely cicatrized. As the fungus, from its constitution, admitted of being con- sidered similar to an extreme degree of exuberant granulation, it occurred to me that the disease might be induced by pressure to retrace its steps, and thus permit recovery without any loss of substance. For this purpose, nothing seemed so convenient as covering the growth with the scrotal integuments, which being freely separated by dissection from their subjacent connections, could be readily broiight over the tumour, so as to have their edges united by sutiu-es. This experiment proved eminently successful, and has been followed by results in the practice of others, as well as myself, which warrant me to recommend the operation as in every respect deserving of confidence. It may now, through the agency of chloroform, be performed without pain. It is much more speedy in effecting recovery than any other method, and it preserves instead of destroying the organ concerned. Extirpation of the Testicle. The mode of removing the testicle, whatever be the circum- stances requiring the operation, is to be conducted on the same principles, which may now be explained. The ]points of most importance in determining these are—1. The quantity of integu- ment to be left; 2. The suppression of the bleeding; and, 3. The dressing of the wound. Wlien the tumour is large and of rapid growth, the skin covering it is not only put very much upon the stretch, but also borrowed from that of the penis and the other testicle; conse- quently, if the whole of it were taken away, a very large exposed surface would remain. If, on the other hand, none of the integ\i- ments, or only a small portion of them, were removed, more especially in a case of slow and long-continued swelling, though