PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 296 the canal, tliey have their descent favoured by its increasing width. When, again, the foreign body is small and sharp-pointed, as a pin, needle, or fish-bone, it is usually entangled about the arches of the palate or the neighbourhood of the epiglottis, often stretching across the cavity. And shovdd it be impeded partly by figure, partly by bulk,—in other words, should it be small enough to pass readily into the oesophagus, if not prevented by its rigidity or angular form,—the bottom of the pharynx and commencement of the oesophagus are the situations where it is generally found. In the case of a tough digestible mass impacted in the oeso- phagus, the usual method of affording, relief is to push it doM'n with a probang—i. e. a piece of whalebone with a sponge or ball of ivory fastened to its extremity. The patient's head should be held back, and the whalebone must be slightly curved to assist its taking the proper direction, which is further promoted by holding the larynx forwards. Instead of this method, I prefer extracting the obstnicting substance, which may in general be easily effected by means of long curved forceps. If the foreign body is of a hard substance, which might occasion inconvenience if swallowed, and more especially if it possesses an angular form, which might render its more firm lodgment the consequence of force being employed to push it down, the safest course is to induce vomiting, in order to effect ejectment upwards. Where the passage was so completely obstructed as to prevent the swallowing of an emetic for this purpose, a solution of tartrate of antimony has been injected into the veins ; but such means are quite xinuecessaiy, as irritation of the fauces by a feather or the point of the finger is sufficient to induce the most violent expul- sive efforts, emptying the stomach of its contents, which carry out the foreign body along with them. In removing pins, needles, and such sort of things, the best plan is to ascertain their situation by means of the finger, and then extract them with the curved forceps. Patients frequently apply for assist- ance days or weeks after swallowing some pointed body, which they believe still remains fixed in the throat. If nothing can be