165 AMPUTATION, or heel is allowed to remain. It has been objected that the extensor muscles of the ankle-joint, having no opponents left attached when amputation is performed through the tarsus, must draw up the heel and point the cicatrix to the ground. But ex- perience has proved that, this unpleasant consequence is consider- ably opposed by the flexor tendons adhering to the cicatrix. The operation through the tarsus, which was invented by Chopart, had been entirely neglected in this country, but came into pretty general use after I performed it (1829). The blade of the knife employed should be about six inches long, and half an inch broad, sharp at the point, and blunt on the back. The tourniquet ought to be applied immediately above the ankle, having compresses placed over the posterior and anterior tibial arteries. The surgeon should measure with his, eye the middle distance between the malleolus exiernus and the/ head of the metatarsal bone of the little toe, which is the situa-" \ tion of the articulation between the os cuboides and os calcis. Placing his fore-finger here, he ought to fix his thumb on the other side of the foot directly opposite, which will shew him where the os naviculare and astragalus are connected. An inci- sion somewhat curved with its convexity forwards is then to be made from one of these points to the other, when, instead of pro- ceeding to disarticulate, the operator should transfix the sole of the foot from side to side at the extremities of the first incision, and carry the knife forwards, so as to detach a sufficient flap, which must extend the whole length of the metatarsus to the balls of the toes. The disarticulation may finally be completed with great ease, as the shape of the articular surfaces concerned is very simple, and nearly transverse. The plantar, anterior tibial, and any other arteries that require to be secured, must then be tied, and the flap having been secured in its place by a few stitches, some light dressing ought to be applied. During the cure the knee ought to be kept bent to relax the gastrocnemius. As disease of an incurable kind frequently affects the joint between the os calcis and the astragalus, and also the ankle-joint