250 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. always direct and severe; sucli as fracture of the patella or femur, especially in its lower third, or a violent strain. The effusion generally appears almost immediately after the injury- is received, and is at first attended with more or less acute symptoms of inflammation. It is readily recognised loj the swelling and fluctuation which are caused by its presence. The enlargement reaches as far up the thigh as the synovial mem- brane extends, it fluctuates when subjected to pressure, and the patella is felt to float, as it were, so that it may be made to strike upon the condyles of the femur if pushed downwards with mode- rate force. The means employed for treating this affection must vary with the acuteness of the inflammatory symptoms which attend it. In the first instance, it is often necessary to cup or leech and foment the joint, while constitutional remedies of a co-operative kind are at the same time administered. When the swelling ceases to be painful, but continues still more or less red, tender to pressure, and unable to bear motion, a cooling discutient lotion may be used with advantage. Finally, when there is no longer any indication of excited action, and the only inconvenience that remains is merely that occasioned by the presence of the fluid, the joint should be blistered once or oftener, according to the extent and dui'ation of the disease, and then carefidly bandaged. In cases of a rheumatic kind, blisters may be employed at an earlier stage with advantage. For some time after the cure is completed, the patient should wear a laced or elastic knee-cap, to protect the joint from the various external injuries to which it would be exposed in conseq^uence of its weakened state. Moveable Cartilages in Joints. Small moveable bodies are occasionally met with in the cavities of the joints, either quite detached or connected with the parietes of the articulation by a narrow neck. They have a glistening pearly lustre, and when divided are found to consist of a gristly substance enclosed in a firm capsule, with a bony nucleus in the centre. They are of various magnitudes, from the