115 BLOOD-VESSELS. over the angle of union of the two muscles above mentioned, and running upwards at a nearly equal distance from their respective edges. Separating the lips of the wound, he should expose and divide the fascia, after which, making an assistant hold aside the edge of the sartorius, he will expose the sheath of the vessels, and, lifting it up with the dissecting forceps, open it sufficiently to let the coats of the artery be seen distinctly. It is here that the principal nicety of the operation lies, since too much exposure of the vessel, especially by tearing, or the use of blunt instruments, incurs the risk of secondary hemorrhage ; while if the arterial coat be not sufficiently denuded, there is no less danger of injuring the vein in the passage of the needle. The artery should be exposed by means of the dissecting forceps and knife, just as in a caxeful dissection on the dead body. The opening in the sheath need not exceed three-eighths of an inch in length; but the cellular or fatty substance immediately en- veloping the vessel in variable quantity must be raised in successive portions, and divided, until the surface of the artery appears perfectly white and distinct. The aneurism-needle, previously threaded, is then to be passed round the artery, which wiU be easily effected if it has been ade- quately exposed, and the edge of the opening in the sheath is held aside with forceps, to let the point of the instrument enter and escape. In doing this it is necessary to avoid the vein which lies below, and the nerve that runs on the outer or fibular side of the artery. On one occasion in the living body, and in another in the dead, I found a large vein, nearly half the size of the femoral, lying anterior to the artery. So soon as the ligature appears, it must be disengaged from the eye of the needle by the forceps or a hook, and pulled out of the wound while the instru- ment is withdrawn in the opposite direction. The operator having then satisfied himself that the artery and nothing more is included, should tie the ligature tightly in what sailors call the reef-knot, which is done by crossing the ends of the thread first one way and then the other. After the ligature is tied, one of the ends may be either cut away, or allowed to remain. The