PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 452 ated by puncture before these local measures are instituted. When the swelling attains a large size, and resists a patient trial of the means that have been mentioned, it may be removed by the knife as a last resource, and of course with a favourable prognosis in regard to the prospect of permanent recovery. A section of the tumour removed in such cases generally exhibits a compact fibrous structure, which is usually of a yellow or yellowish-gray colour, and contains irregularly-sized cells iriter- sj)ersed through its substance. Gystic Sarcoma of the, Testicle. The testicle is liable to the formation of cysts in. its texture, and these sometimes occupy so much of it as to constitute a mass in which the cystic character predominates. Wlien this disease is associated with hydi-ocele or htematocele, its diagnosis cannot be made out with accuracy, until the fluid in the tunica vaginalis has been drawn off. The only remedy for this affection is re- moval, and the operation may be performed with less regret, as the glandular structure of the testicle always suffers such atrophy, or changes in. its texture, that it cannot be expected to perform its function. Medullary Sarcoma of the Testicle. Excepting the bones and the mamma, the testicle is perhaps more subject to the derangement of nutrition, which leads to this morbid growth, than any structure in the body. It is generally met with at and before the middle period of life ; sometimes commencing without any assignable cause, but not unfrequently being referred to blows, or bruises, or to inflammation excited by other means. The patient's appearance is generally healthy, and the diseased action shows less tendency to spread than when it occurs in other parts. The tumour merely enlarges, becoming very irregular and tuberous on the surface, and exhausts the patient by the irritation which the pain attending it occasions ; but the integuments and glands are extremely slow in acquiriug the morbid disposition, so that the operation of removal, which,