259 JOINTS. eij[ually effectual for causing wincing, as moving the limb or pressing the articular siufaces against each other. Tlie whole system is usually observed to be in a highly sensitive excitable state; but sometimes presents all the characters of perfect health. The uneasy feelings, though frequently remaining months or years, generally commence and disappear suddenly —whence empiricism is afforded a good field, which has been diligently cultivated. Morbus Coxarim. The morbus coxarius, or hip-disease, is an affection of the liip- joint, wMch requires separate consideration, not so much on account of any pecuKarity in its nature, as from the frequency of its occurrence and importance of its effects. It prevails in cold moist climates, and attacks chiefly cluldren between the ages of seven and fourteen, though it is not unfrequently met with both before and after this time of life. The first symptom complained / of is generally pain of the knee, which often exists for months '' before attention is directed to the true seat of the disease.'*.- " ... Sooner or later the patient is observed to walk awlcwardly, and less vigorously than usual; and when the circumstances on which this difference depends are investigated, it appears that the affected limb is elongated and emaciated—that the convexity of the hip is flattened, so that the sulcus between it and the thigh is less distinct and more oblique in its dii'ection—and that in standing, the foot is advanced a little with the toe slightly everted, and that the patient does not rest his weight upon it. Eain is now felt in the hip-joint itself, and though aggravated by motion, often becomes more severe from time to time without any such cause of irritation. It is most apt to do so during the night, particularly when the weather is wet and changeable. In this second stage, the disease remains generally several months. At length the symptoms which have been mentioned either dis- appear, and the limb recovers its former condition, or they are succeeded by others still more disagreeable. In the latter case the limb becomes considerably shorter than the sound one, its