PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 164 the bone requires to be divided, inclosing the thumb, and meet- ing together at the angle of union between it and the fore-finger. If it is necessary, the whole bone may be easily disarticulated through similar incisions. The same processes are proper for re- moving the metacarpal bone of the little-finger in part or in whole. The toes ought to be amputated on the same principles ; but, with the exception of the great one, which may be removed through the joint of the first and second phalanx, it is always proper in removing them to perform disarticulation between the first phalanx and metatarsal bone, since the small portion that might be allowed to remain could be of no use, and in all pro- bability would occasion lameness. When more of the great toe than the distal phalanx requires removal, the operation shoidd be performed through the metatarsal bone, in order to prevent its large articulating extremity from impeding recovery, and render- ing the foot unseemly as well as inconvenient. The disease requuing amputation sometimes extends to the tarsus, but is limited to the bones on one side of the foot— namely, the internal cuneiform and navicular on the tibial, and the cuboid on the fibular side. In this case, instead of ampu- tating the foot, it is better to make a free removal of the diseased parts by taking them away, together with the metatarsal bones articulated to them. The operation should be conducted on the same plan as for the removal of a metatarsal bone by itself, and wiU be found hardly more difficult or serious. Partial ampu- tation of the foot may also be performed transversely through the metatarsus, between the metatarsus and tarsus, and through the tarsus. The first and second of these methods are very seldom admissible, owing to the disease which requires removal of a part of the foot, generally extending so far as to encroach upon the bones where they would need to be divided; and they are also objectionable from the difficulty which attends their execution, while there is no counter-balancing advantage in their favour, since, when once the anterior extremity of the longitudinal arch of the foot is taken away, no additional inconvenience results from removing a larger portion, so long as the posterior extremity