PlilNOIPLBS OF SUllGEBY. 216 necessary to remove any of them, except in order to gain access to the seat of the evil. Notwithstanding this favourable circum- stance, it is found extremely difficult to eradicate the disease by depriving the part affected of its vitality. The bone usually lies at a considerable depth ; the caries, though it seldom penetrates deeply into its substance, generally occupies an extensive and irregular surface ; and the effect of agents used with the view of killing the morbid part is necessarily much weakened by its humidity. The concentrated mineral acids—^the nitrates of sHver and mercury—^the red oxide of mercury—and the actual cautery, are considered the best means for the purpose. In using them the bone affected ought to be very freely exposed by a crucial incision, and then dried as well as possible, after which the caustic or cautery selected should be applied so as to produce a decided effect. The fluid caustics should be applied by means of a piece of lint soaked in them; the solid ones should be rubbed on the part, or, if they are in the form of a powder, as the red oxide of mercury, laid on it in substance ; the cautery should be of a spherical or ovate shape, it must be pressed down firmly, and be succeeded by two or three others until the whole morbid surface has been subjected completely to their action. The effect of all these applications, however carefully employed, is very superficial, and it is extremely difficult, if not impossible, to insure their operation on the whole surface of the diseased part. They, therefore, frequently require to be repeated, and generally prove inadequate to destroy the disease, unless it is very limited and accessible ; and it is even not improbable that some of them, as the actxial cautery, may occasionally make .the matter worse, and extend the disease to the neighbouring bone by exciting inflammation in it. For these reasons excision ought to be preferred to caustics for removing the carious bone ; and if the part affected be within reach, which can always be ascertained previous to commencing the operation, it may by this method be surely and thoroughly eradicated at once. If the disease is superficial, and of smaU extent, it is easily scooped out with a gouge, the toughness and compactness of the sound bone