417 PELVIS. that can be done is to iutroduce a tube wrapped in lint, raise the patient's breech, and apply cold. Infiltration of urine takes place when, from the small size of the wound, from its being seated too far forward in the peri- neum, from an insufficient division of the levator ani, or from swelling of the cut surfaces, the urine has not a free outlet ex- ternally; and if the incision of the bladder is carried far back, more especially through the reflection of the pelvic fascia on its neck, this imtoward event will be more apt to happen. The patient feels first a painful sense of distension, and then an un- easiness in the hypogastric region behind the pubis, which leads to the belief that peritonitis is commencing, and blood is freely withdrawn, both locally and generally, without affording any relief. A fever, attended with the symptoms that denote exces- sive irritation, commences, continues in despite of every means employed to check it, and proves fatal in a few days. When- ever the urine is not observed within five or six hours after the operation, the surgeon should examine the tube to discover whether or no it is obstructed by coagulated blood,—and if a tube has not been employed, he should introduce his finger into the bladder, so as to make sure of there being a free passage for the fluid, keeping in mind that infiltration of urine, though in general easily prevented, can seldom if ever be remedied. .Inflammation at the neck of the bladder is the bad conse- quence most to be dreaded. It is attended with pain at the point of the penis, nausea, with disgust at every sort of food, and occasional retching,—yellow furred tongue,—frequent pulse, —and great general restlessness. It proves fatal seldom sooner than one, or later than three weeks. On dissection, the ceUular substance at the neck of the bladder is found infiltrated with pus, and the prostate gland also contains purulent collections. The circumstances that seem to have most effect in givin" rise to this insidious and deadly process are laceration and contu- sion inflicted during the removal of the stone, especially if the sensitive and unyielding ring at the base of the prostate in the neck of the bladder be not divided by incision. This texture 2 E