PRINCIPLES OF SUKGEKY. 344 peritoneal covering, which contrasts remarkably with the rough and bleeding external surface of the sac, and those of the fascite, independently of any other signs, will at once assure the surgeon that he has opened the sac. When the hernia is small, its coverings and the sac ought always to be divided first at the fundus, or bottom of the tumour, as they are there most apt to be separated from the intestine by serous fluid, which is almost always present in more or less quantity, and sometimes con- stitutes the principal part of the swelling. In a small hernia also, the sac should be opened throughout its whole extent; but if it is large, merely such a portion of its neck as may be suffi- cient for allowing the stricture to be. reached and divided. If the presence of fluid could be depended upon there would be no danger in openiug the sac ; but as it is occasionally, though cer- tainly very seldom, absent, so that the peritoneal covering lies in close contact with the strangulated parts, it would be extremely imprudent in any case to operate with reliance on the protection which is thus not certainly afforded. The safest mode of pro- ceeding is to pinch up a small portion of the sac with the forceps,, and then to divide it, holding the knife parallel with the surface of the tumour. Wherever an aperture, however small, is made, fluid, if any is contained in the cavity, escapes, and the smooth shining surface of the contained viscera is readily recognised. While the forceps still retain their hold of the membrane, a blunt-pointed curved bistoury shovild be introduced and carried to the requisite extent, with the additional protection of the operator's finger interposed between it and the intestine. After the protruded viscera have been exposed, the next step of the operation is to divide the strictui-e. This might be done in any direction, were it not that the epigastric artery and sper- matic cord, lying in the neighbourhood of the neck of the sac, limit the choice within more narrow bounds. When the hernia protrudes through the internal opening of the canal, it is seated anteriorly to the cord, and has the epigastric artery on the pubic side of its neck. In cases of old standing, wliere the tumour attains a large size, the spermatic vessels are sometimes separated