EXTERNAL INJUEIES, 143 the latter, though, whcu present, affording evidence of violence having been sustained, does not prove by its absence that no effusion has taken place. Persons labouring under the disease named Purpura hemorrhagica have often discoloured marks on the skin resembling those of ecchymosis. Blood may be effused into the cellular texture, in consequence of violence sustained soon after death—but in this case it proceeds from rupture of the larger vessels, and is not coagulated. Finally, it is necessary to notice, that the presence of a wound in a bruised part may prevent any discoloration by allowing the blood to escape. Wounds. By Wounds are understood solutions of continuity in the surface of the body effected by violence. They are divided according to the injury which the parts concerned sustain in addition to the wound, and also the form which it possesses, into Incised, Punctured, and Contused. In incised wounds, there is merely a solution of continuity iuflicted by a cutting instrument, vsdthout any other injury of the part concerned, and the superficial extent of the aperture bears a considerable proportion to its depth. The great object in treating such wounds is to induce union by the first intention, and the general observations which have been already made on that process suggest the practice to be followed with this view. All foreign matters should be removed from between the cut surfaces ; blood and serum should be prevented from collecting, by avoiding close dressing ; and the actions of the system should be kept within proper bounds by suitable diet, with perfect quiet of the part affected. Wherever pressure is suificient to keep the cut edges in contact, it ought to be preferred for the purpose. Plasters are apt to approximate the lips of the wound merely, and, so far from pressing the deeper parts of the wound together, rather render them more separable by relaxing the superjacent integuments. The introduction of silver sutures for retaining the cut edges in contact, has with gi-eat advantage superseded all the other means which were previously employed