PUINCIPLE8 OF SURGERY. 25G brane which lines them, or in the substance of the cartilage. Ulceration of the cartUages occm-s at all ages ; but is more common in adults than the disease wliich originates in thicken- ing of the synovial membrane. It is met with both ia persons of scrofulous constitutions, and in those subject to rheumatism, but cliiefly in the latter. The exciting causes are irritations of various lands, both direct and indirect, such as strains, bruises, and exposure to cold. It is indicated by deep-seated gnawing pain, often referred to one particular point of the articulation, aggravated by motion, and felt most severely at night. The patient also generally complains of pain in the joint beyond the one affected, or in more distant parts of the limb, which is usually throughout its whole extent more or less weak, cedema- tous, and cold. There is little swelling in the first instance, and no great degree of it subsequently, unless thickening of the syno^dal membrane be associated witli abrasion of the cartilages, wliich is not unfrec[uently the case. ' When there is no swelling fi'om this source, the enlargement that does take place is con- fined to the immediate neighbourhood of the joint, and is of a more firm, unyielding consistence than that accompanying the other disease, as it depends merely on thickening and condensa- tion of the cellular substance. Ulceration of the cartilages sometimes causes such violent pain and hectic irritation of the system, as to require amputation even while the parts remain in the ' state that has been described ; but, in general, it either goes on to suj)puration, or terminates in recovery. When suppuration takes place, the joint passes into nearly the same condition as that which exists in the last stage of the disease originating in the gelatinous degeneration of the synovial structure, so that it would be difficult to discover from dissection where the morbid changes had commenced ; and the case admits of cure only by anchylosis. When the disease ter- minates favourably before suppuration, some stifihess of the joint almost always remains. It appears that the articidating cai-tilage is never restored, whether it has been removed by interstitial absorption, or destroyed by ulceration, and that the osseous sur-