PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 26 the action of the caustic is completed, a poultice ought to be applied uiitU the portion of skin tbat has been destroyed sepa- rates, when some foreign substances, such as those already mentioned, must be introduced to prevent the opening from closing. The actual cautery is the best method of the whole, since the breach which it occasions requires no means for keeping it open, and does not heal until after many weeks or months, or healing applications are employed. The pain is severe but almost momentary, and, on the wliole, much less than that of the caustic; while the counter-irritatiag effect is found to be greater than that of any of the other means. Counter-iiTitation may be effected also by moxa. This con- sists in burning small cones of the down of the Artemisia, or what answers eqiially well, provided the combustion be main- taitied by a blow-pipe or bellows, raw cotton made into cylinders from one to two inches wide and three-quarters of an inch thick. Every degree of irritation may be thus produced, from the slightest reddening to the most complete burning; but it is difficult to regulate the effect, and there seems to be no advan- tage in attempting to do so, as the other means which have been mentioned are more under command, and at least equally efficacious. Acupuncture.—This remedy for inflammation must stand by itself. It consists in the introduction of slender needles from one to three inches ui length hito the inflamed pai't by a gentle rotatory motion. No respect is paid in doing this to the import- ance of the organs, and the heart, stomach, arteries, and nenres have all, it is said, been transfixed without any ceremony, though fatal consequences are reported to have sometimes resrdted from this rash practice. No pain or other symptoms of irritation are in general produced, and, on the contrary, a diminution of the inflammatory indications is alleged to be frequently observed. This practice is of ancient origin, and held in much esteem in Eastern countries, where, as iir China and Japan, its employment is said to constitute a distinct department of the surgical profes- sion. Some years ago it was tried pretty extensively in France