PELVIS. 421 division of the sphincter seemed likely to diminish the chance of this, and experience proved that it did not often happen. In the hands of an inexpert operator, this method is perhaps the least difi&cult; but it certainly must be regarded as decidedly inferior to the lateral operation when properly performed, as well in regard to the danger of its immediate effects, as in prospect of the patient's condition after recovery being accomplished. When the stone is of no great size, it may be removed very easily and safely by what has been called the Median operation —^that is, opening the membranous part of the urethra, just as if for the division of a stricture, and then passing forceps with narrow blades into the bladder, a tube being afterwards placed in the wound to prevent urinary extravasation. Retention of Urine in Females. From the shortness, straight direction, and width of the urethra, together with the absence of a prostate gland, females are much less liable to retention of urine than males. They suffer from it, however, occasionally, in consequence of the follow- ing circumsta.nces :—1. Paralysis from distension; 2. The pres- sure of a gravid uterus; and, 3. Eetroversion of the uterus. The female bladder is more capacious than that of the male, and can suffer the accumulation of more fluid without being injured in its contractile power. When, however, the limit of healthy expansion is at length exceeded, the same effect is induced as when the male bladder is concerned, and the patient labours under a complete retention, which requires for her relief that the catheter should be introduced. The instrument employed for this purpose is made of silver, about six inches long, very slightly curved, and a quarter of an inch wide. The patient lies in bed on her back with the thighs drawn up ; and the operation ought to be performed imder the clothes. The fore-finger of the right or left hand, according to the position of the patient, is intro- duced between the labia minora, and carried upwards to their junction, a little below which the orifice of the urethra is situ- ated, and where it is readily recognised by the feeling of a de-