JOINTS. 237 patient to regain considerable use of tlie limb. While this process is going on, the old articular hollow gradually contracts, and iiltimately becomes obliterated ; so that, if the bone were displaced from its new situation, it could not be returned to its original one. The time that may elapse before reduction becomes impracticable, varies with the age of the patient and the nature of the joint concerned, from two or three weeks to as many months. It is longer in old people than in young, and in dislo- cations of ball-and-socket joints than in those of hinge-joints. Slioulder-joint.—The head of the humerus may be dislocated downwards, forwards, and backwards. The first of these dis- placements is the most common, and happens more frequently than the dislocation of any other joint. The accident is caused by external violence proceeding from falls on the hand or elbow, or blows on the shoulder, while the arm is separated from the side, and also, though rarely, by sudden violent contractions of the pectoralis major and laiissimus darsi, while the limb is in a state of abduction. In some rare cases it has been observed to occur during an epileptic convulsion. The capsular ligament is necessarily torn, and the head of the bone rests upon the neck of the scapula over the origin of the long head of the triceps. The sjinptoms are elongation of the arm, which is stiff and powerless, projecting considerably from the side, and slightly bent, both the biceps and triceps being put upon the stretch. The tension of the former muscle generally occasions supination of the fore-arm ; the axOlary hoUow is occupied by the head of the humerus ; and imder the acromion there is a remarkable • depression instead of the usual convexity of the deltoid, from the absence of the bone. There is pain of the shoulder, numbness of the fingers, and more or less swelling of the whole Hmb. The reduction may be effected by various methods, but the one which will generally be found most convenient, is to place the heel of the operator in the axilla of the patient, while both lie horizontally in opposite directions; then perform extension by pulling the hand of the affected arm; and finally effect coap- tation by bending the limb inwards over the ftilcrum which is