201 BONES. skin may induce necrosis. There often seems to be a constitu- tional proneness to necrosis, so that many bones of the same person die together or successively. This disposition exists most frequently in childhood, and is almost always associated with, perhaps dependent upon, weakness of the system. The dead portion appears as if it had been long and carefully macerated, being hard, white, brittle, and sonorous when struck with a probe. If exposed to the air previous to separation, it suffers various alterations of colour, and generally, in part at least, becomes black; but this depends upon the discharge of the sore, and the action of the air. It is named an Exfoliation, and gradually separates from the living bone by ulcerative absorption. The circumstances which attend the process of exfoliation and its reparation vary much, accordingly as it affects the external sur- face, internal surface, or the whole thickness of the bone con- cerned. External Exfoliation.—The external surface of bones being most exposed to those injuries which cause exfoliation either directly by their violence, or indirectly by exciting inflammation, most frequently suffers from it; and, of the particular bones, those nearest the surface of the body, as the tibia and cranium, are, as might be expected, more especially liable. The separa- tion of the dead portion, being effected by a process of the living system, does not admit of any assistance from the surgeon, whose interference could hardly fail to do harm, by injuring the adjoin- ing sound bone. Free, vent ought to be afforded by proper inci- sions to the matter, which is copiously secreted; and the exfo- liation should be examined from time to time with the probe, to ascertain whether or not it has become detached. So soon as it is found to be loose, it ought to be removed by means of forceps, either through the opening which already exists in the integu- ments, or a suitable extension of it. The remaining surface granulates, and osseous matter is effused under the pellicle, so as to fill up the breach partially, but usually leaving a permanent depression at the part. Internal Exjoliation.—It is of course only in the cylindrical