477 BRAIN. are separated by stretching of their connecting membranes, so as to allow the quantity at length to weigh several xDounds, without much interfering with the functions of the brain, which becomes expanded into a bag-like form, and loses all trace of convolu- tions except on its inferior surface. The patient in such cases has the power of locomotion diminished, and his body becomes excessively attenuated ; but existence is often prolonged for many years, and may at length terminate in a way not connected with the disease of the brain. The great object in treating acute hydrocephalus is to subdue the primary inflammation, since the case is nearly hopeless when effusion takes place. It is evident that the mere removal of the effused fluid by operation, though it might for a little diminish the symptoms of pressure on the brain, could not afford any per- manent advantage, and the operation for this purpose would necessarily be attended with the danger that attends all wounds of the cerebral substance. Few attempts have accordingly been made to cure the disease by puncture, and the results of these confirm the imfavourable opinion of the practice that was pre- viously entertained on theoretical grounds. In Chronic Hydrocephalus, the accximulation of fluid consti- tutes the whole of the morbid condition, and consequently eva- cuation of it may not appear an unreasonable mode of affording relief. The operation has, accordingly, been frequently performed, but not with such success as affords any encouragement to repeat it. This win not appear surprising, if it is recollected that, in all other dropsical swellings, paracentesis hardly ever affords more than temporary relief, and that, in the particular case under con- sideration, there are circumstances peculiarly opposed to a more permanent recovery. The imyielding nature of the parietes of the cranium, even thougli at some parts remaining in a mem- branous state, must equally prevent the comjilete removal of the fluid, and the employment of effectual compression afterwards to oppose its reproduction. No great risk seems to be incurred, in the first instance, since the wounds made by introducing tlie trocar have generally healed without producing any bad conse-