12 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEEY. overlooked, tliougli not less frequent, or less productive of serious disease. The most extensive and frequent derangement Aviiich occurs in this way proceeds from interruption of the mucous secretion of the intestiual canal. All./fefctentive practitioners have remarked, that when the bowels Become costive, various diseases are apt to break out in distant parts of the body. This has been attributed to irritation caused by retention of the faeces, and to the effect of an inflamed state of the b'ning membrane of the bowels, but it may be more correctly referred to interruption of the usual secretion. Next in order as a source of derange- ment, from diminution of usual action, ought to be reckoned the skin. The effects of checked perspiration, or mere chOling of the skin, in occasioning general fever and local inflammation, are constantly presented to our attention. "Whenever an accustomed secretion or action of any kind is suppressed, though there may not ensue indications of actual disturbance, there is always a strong disposition to it; and therefore all operations, even of the most trivial land, ought to be abstained from in such circumstances, as the direct irritation proceeding from them, together with the indirect inducement to derangement already present, might probably occasion violent local and general disorder. 2. A diseased action may, from long continuance, become as it were adopted by the system, so as to occasion disturbance by its suppression. The fact is weU known to the vulgar, who have in conse- quence the greatest dread of interfering with local complaints of long standing, especially such of them as are attended with dis- charges. This prejudice is no doubt generally carried too far; but it should be carefully recollected, that excited and disordered action of a part, which has from habit ceased to irritate the sys- tem, cannot be suddenly removed without the risk of causiug general derangement. Thus, when disease of a bone has oc- casioned the discharge of matter for a number of years, amputa- tion, especially in adults, is found to be almost certainly fatal. 3. All parts of the body do not sympathise with equal readi-