EYE. 515 margin of the inflamed eyelids at bedtime. Great attention ought to be bestowed on the maintenance, or restoration, of the various secretions, particularly those of the skin and intestinal canal; and counter-irritation, by blistering the back of the neck, or introducing a seton into it, is often very serviceable. The upper eyelid, and also, though much more rarely, the lower one, is liable to inversion of the margin, which is named Entropium, This occurrence is usually in the first instance caused by the swelling attendant upon ophthalmia tarsi, and afterwards tends to its own increase, as well as obstinacy, by the irritation which proceeds from the friction of the eyelashes upon the eyeball, and also from the tarsal cartilage acquiring a correspondent curvature, which opposes the return of the eyelid into its proper position. Tumours of the eyelid, and sometimes mere relaxation of it, lead to the disease. It occasions constant uneasiness, and in consequence of this, chronic inflammation of the conjunctiva, nebula, arborescent red vessels, and ultimately complete opacity of the cornea, are sooner or later produced. The treatment is conducted with the view either of palliating or radically removing the disease. The former of these objects may be attained by pulling out the cilia from time to time, or applying straps of plaster, so as to maintain the eyelid in its proper place. As such means are very troublesome and ineffec- tive, much attention has been bestowed on the radical cure, and various modes of procedure devised for its completion. The principle on which these are founded is, to counteract the ten- dency to turn inwards, by removing a portion of the integuments of the eyelid, so as to tighten or tuck up its external edge. Tliis may be done either by cutting, or applying escharotics ; but the former method is unquestionably preferable, since the latter, though recommended by some respectable authorities, is infinitely more painful, tedious, uncertain, and inefficient. The redundant skin is cut away with scissors much more conveniently than with a knife, the requisite portion being embraced between the blades of a pair of dressing forceps, and removed at one stroke. It should in general extend from within a line of the