550 PKINGIPLES OF SUKGKHY. puruleut discharge, aud seem to agree in their nature with the growths v/hich spring from the lining membrane of the prepuce and the conjunctiva, in consequence of inflammation terminating in suppuration. The best mode of treating them is to pull away with forceps as much as possible of their substance, and then touch the remaining surface with nitrate of silver, afterwards using injections of sulphate of zinc, or other metallic solutions, to correct the morbid action of the membranes. Obstruction of tJie EusiacJdan Tuhe, and Perforation of the Membrane of the Tympanum. The Eustachian tube is liable to be obstructed at its pharyn- geal extremity by a variety of circumstances, of which the most deserving of notice are, thickening and adhesion of its lining membrane, consequent on inflammation of the throat, enlarge- ment of the tonsils, and nasal polypus. It has been already mentioned, in regard to the two last of these affections, that they occasionally give rise to deafness in this way, which is relieved by their removal. But when the tube is closed, the only method of restoring the patient's hearing is to remove the obstruction, by introducing probes or injections through the nose into the contracted or obliterated tube. This operation is so extremely difficult and imcertain, that it cannot be regarded as affording any real advantage ; and it has therefore been proposed, in such cases, to make an opening in the membrane of the tympanum, so as to place it in equilibrium as to the pressure of the atmos- phere, on its internal as well as external surface. Numerous attempts have been made with this view, and frequently with temporary benefit. The return of deafness, which the patient has almost always suffered, has been ascribed to closure of the aperture, and various modes of making it have been proposed, in order to prevent the edges of the wound from uniting. It is probable, however, that the relapse depends on other circum- stances, as it is not easy to conceive how the edges of such wounds could unite, except as a rare accident, and since the deafness has returned, even after a part of the membrane was actually removed.