AMPUTATION. 159 the surgeon lias liis choice, he will generally find transfixion the easiest method. The size of the flaps, and proportion of muscle and integument composing them, must be regulated by the thickness of the bone, and laxity of the soft parts. The flaps ought to be cut longer than would be sufficient to constitute a well-formed stump in the dead body, to compensate for the con- tractility of the muscles. "VVlien the skin is loose, and the muscles attenuated, the surface of the flaps should be convex, to preserve the latter, and diminish the extent of the former tissue. A^Tien, on the contrary, the limb is muscular, and the skin tense, the knife should be made to describe a concave line, to prevent redundance of muscle. For restraining hemorrhage during the operation, there are three means vv'hich may be used. The first of these is the tourniquet, contrived by Petit (l7l 6), who, instead of the turn- stick, as it was called, and which had been previously employed, used a screw and couple of plates, which, being separated by turning the handle, effected the pressure more gradually, and so as to dispense with-the services of the assistant who was em- ployed to hold the turn-stick. This screw tourniquet, variously modified and improved, is the instrument still generally used for the purpose. The second method is compression of the aorta by a clamp sun-ounding the body, wMch has been found very useful in amputating at the hip joint. The third mode of commanding "the vessels, is by simply compressing them with the hands. In certain amputations this is the only means that can be used, owing to the proximity of the operation to the trimk ; and some surgeons, from the facility and dispatch attending it never employ a tourniquet on any occasion. In cases where the tourniquet can be applied without doing harm, it ought to be preferred, as it relieves the assistant from a fatiguing duty, and prevents the patient from losing so much blood as he is apt to do when the vessels are subjected to manual pressure, if many of them require to be tied. The arteries ought to be pulled out with the catch forceps, and tied quite detached from their neighbouring con- nections. After the principal vessels are secured, the tourniquet