PiUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 310 witliout au external one,—the wound of the lung itself having necessarily a valvular effect, as the soft substance of the pulmo- nary tissue, though opposing no resistance to the escape of ait" from the small bronchial tubes, will prevent its return into them by collapsing round their cut orifices, when subjected to pressure during expiration. In either of these circumstances, every inspiration will tend to enlarge the quantity of au- contained in the pleura, while the succeeding expii'ation has little or no effect in reducing it. The patient consequently feels gi'eat and in- creasing difficulty of breathing. The inspirations are short, almost instantaneous, and effected with a sort of catch. The expirations are laborious and ineffectual; and there is a distress- ing sensation of tightness across the breast; the pulse is small and irregular; the countenance is livid; and unless relief be afforded, death ensues. The symptoms of this condition bear considerable resemblance to those of hemorrhage into the pleura, —^but the resonance of the chest, which is absent in the latter case, and more than usiially distinct in pneumothorax, dis- tinguishes the one from the other. If emphysema is present along with pneumothorax, scari- fications should be made for the discharge of the air contained in the cellular substance, which also afford exit to that accumu- lated in the chest; but if this proves insufficient, or if there is not any emphysema, an opening should be made without delay through the parietes of the thorax. Paracentesis thoracis, for this purpose, was first proposed by Mr. Hewson. Paracentesis Thoracis. Paracentesis, or puncture of the thorax, is performed to evacuate air, blood, pus, or serum, accumiilated to an injurious extent within the cavity of the pleura! It might appear at first sight that almost any part of the parietes could be chosen for this purpose,—but the follo\\dng considerations Mmit the proper boixnds of the operation to a more narrow space. An opening higher up than the fifth or sixth rib would not afford a con- venient outlet for the fluid which requires to be discharged,—