514 PEINCIPLBS OF SUEGERY. cess proceeds so quickly, that in the course of a week or two, or even by the end of a few days, the substitute may be introduced, and worn with perfect comfort. Tumours of the Orbit. Medullary or cartilaginous growths from the bones, polypous excrescences from the nose, and tumours of independent origin, are occasionally met with encroacliing on the cavity of the orbit, and causing a correspondent protrusion of the eye. Vision is generally impaired or destroyed by the stretching of the optic nerve thus occasioned, but is regained when the eye returns to its place, unless the organ has participated in the morbid action. Before resolving on the removal of an orbital tumom', it is neces- sary that its nature and connections should be carefully investi- gated, in order that an attempt at excision may not be made unless the morbid part can be completely extii-pated. Fatty, fibrous, and encysted tumours, must be completely dissected out. Polypous excrescences ought to be treated according to the prin- ciples that wiU be explained in relation to the nose; and growths from the bone should not be interfered with unless they proceed from the malar or superior maxillaiy portion of the orbit, so that the root is within reach. Eyelids. The eyelids are subject to a chronic inflammation named OpMlialmia Tarsi, which chiefly affects their external edge at the roots of the cilia. The tarsal margin is swelled, red, and the seat of disagreeable itching. The eye-lashes are small, or alto- gether absent. The eye is weak and watery. Children, espe- cially those of scrofulous constitution, are most liable to this complaint, which generally proves extremely obstinate, in re- curring again and again during the period of childhood up to puberty, though relieved for a time by the remedies that are employed to remove it. Stimulating ointments, such as those containing the red oxide of mercury, or the nitrate of mercuiy, are the best local applications, and should be rubbed along the