32 PRINCIPLES OF SURr.EUY. A part merely of the body may be rendered weaker than usual, so as to be more prone to mortification, and this in various ways. "When the principal artery of a limb is tied, there is no longer sufficient strength for carrying on the usual actions—the weakened part seems to make an effort to recover—heat, pain, swelling, with the other symptoms of inflammation, supervene, and, if they are the least excited by external circumstances, soon wear out the diminished power that remains. The arteries occasionally become obstructed spontaneously, and this probably gives rise to the mortification of the toes which not unfrequently happens in old people. The Gangrena Senilis, as it has been Jfemed, was so well de- scribed by Mr. Pott, that his name is gwrally connected with it. The disease is seldom met with befor?the age of sixty. It occiirs more frequently in males than females; and chiefly affects persons addicted to the pleasures of the table. It is usually preceded by uneasy feelings, sometimes amounting to intense pain, in the foot, which, at the same time, is observed to be more or less swelled. A brown or purple spot then shews it- self—most frequently in the neighbourhood of one of the nails, but it may be in the sole or on the instep ; the surrounding skin becomes red, hot, and distended ; the cuticle separates from the discoloured spot, and exposes the subjacent texture in the state of slough. The morbid process then either gradually advances until the patient sinks under it at the end of weeks or months, or gradually relaxes in severity, and, ceasing to extend, permits a cure to be accomplished in the way hereafter to be explained. It has generally been supposed that the cause of this disorder consists in a weakened condition of the foot, probably de- pending upon obstruction of its arteries, or ossification of their coats. Nearly the same effect is produced when the blood is pre- vented from returning through the veins by pressure or closure of them from other causes. The obstruction of one vein, even though the principal one of the limb, may not produce trouble- some consequences, occasioning mortification, but if the princi-