337 ABDOMEN. sions generally present its concave surface, and consequently press towards tlie right groin. Tight articles of dress, which compress the abdomen, and increase the confinement of its con- tents without strengthening the parietes at the natural apertures, promote the occurrence of hernia. The symptoms of inguinal hernia cannot be properly described or understood without considering separately three different states in which the disease may exist. In the first of these, the viscera return into the abdomen when the patient assumes the horizontal posture, or when moderate pressure is applied to the tumour. The hernia is then said to be Eeducible. In the second state, the viscera are detained in the sac, but pro- duce no further inconvenience, when the hernia is said to be Incarcerated. And in the third, the viscera are not only pre- vented from leaving the sac, but suffer in it such pressure or constriction as impedes the exercise of their functions, and produces other bad consequences, in which case the hernia is said to be Strangulated. The symptoms of Eeducible inguinal hernia are—a tumour in the region of the inguinal canal, colourless, elastic, and com- pressible, which disappears when the patient Lies down, or when moderate pressure is applied; and a gurgling noise or sensation when the viscera return into the abdomen. The circumstances which occasion Incarceration are—1. Thickening and hardening of the omentum, which comes to resemble the pancreas or even denser structures; 2. Adhesions between the viscera and sac; 3. Distension of the gut with intestinal matters; and 4. The peculiar condition of the cai^t ccecum, which cannot return, except slowly, in the same way it descended, by gradual exten- sion of its cellular connections. The presence of a colourless elastic tumour, of unequal consistence, in the region of the inguinal canal, together with the histoiy of the case, distinguishes the disease. Strangulation depends upon the pressure which is caused by the tough fibrous margin of the inguinal apertures or the condensed neck of the sac. The viscera may begin to suffer from the constriction immediately after their protrusion, or may z