202 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. bones that exfoliation from an internal surface can take place ; and tliose of the largest size are most frequently the seat of it. The cause is almost always inflammation, since the injuries which directly occasion necrosis can rarely operate on the interior of a bone. The exfoliation in this situation is named a seques- trum. It separates from the sound bone as in the former case ; but having done so, cannot escape through the walls of the shaft withiu which it is enclosed, and therefore remains a source of irritation. The living bone, in consequence, becomes greatly thickened, and new osseous matter is copiously effused from its external surface, in the form of irregular projecting tubercles. At the same time the pus, which is pent up within the cavity, by its pressure on the parietes, induces absorption, and the for- mation of cylindrical apertures through the shell of the bone. These doom, as they are named, allow the confined matter to escape, and present itseK under the integuments in the form of an abscess, which, if not opened by the surgeon, sooner or later evacuates its contents by ulcei-ation. Thus far during the pro- cess, the patient suffers from pain and swelling of the limb, but after the matter obtains free vent, he finds himself greatly re- lieved. The enlargement, though it does not disappear alto- gether, subsides very much, and so little uneasiness remains that he is generally able to make some use of the limb. If it should fortunately happen that the sequestrum is not only small, but also favourably situated for escaping throijgh a cloaca, the source of irritation being thus removed, the patient may be restored to health. But if the sequestra do not pass out spontaneously, the surgeon, having ascertained their presence by the probe, must enlarge the opening which leads into the cavity containing them, so as to obtain space sufficient for their extraction. In order to do this, he makes a simple, or, if the part admits of it, a cnicial incision through the integuments, having the cloaca for its centre, dissects back the flaps, and applies the trephine over the opening should there be room for doing so, and if not, as is usually the case, he employs the cutting-pliers to enlarge the opening sufii-