137 BLOOD-VESSELS, necessarily or usually either remain open or suJBfer complete obstruction, as the arteries do, but heal, and regain their original condition. This difference is owing to the smaller distension of the venous coats, wliich allows the effusion of lymph that takes place from their cut edges to become organized. If the lips of the wound continue in situ, they unite at once with each other; but if they are displaced, owing to their transverse direction, or any other cause, there is, in the first instance, injection of blood into the surrounding cellular substance ; then the formation of a firm, round, smooth coagulum, exterior to the wound ; and, lastly, an exudation of lymph from the vessels of the vein, which, resting upon this clot, extends from one cut edge to the other, and gradually unites them together^ after which, the clot being absorbed, the cure is completed. Varix. Varix consists in a dilatation and thickening of the veins, ^ which become at the same time elongated, and thus constitute a S tortuous sweUing. It occasions deformity, weakness of the part concerned, by impeding the circulation, and uneasy sensations from the same cause. It also renders the vein liable to chronic inflammation, ulceration, and hemorrhage. The saphena, sper- matic, and hemorrhoidal veins are most liable to the disease. It seldom appears in the limbs before maturity, but occurs in the ■ other situations which have been mentioned at a much more early age. TaU stature, and largeness of the veins, predispose to the disease; constipation, pregnancy, hepatic derangement, and seden- tary occupations, favour its actual commencement. The treatment of varix consists in obviating the exciting causes, for which purpose the bowels ought to be kept open, the testicle ought to be suspended, and the leg ought to be su];^rted with a bandage or laced stocldng. The horizontal posture ought to be preferred and the erect one avoided. When the vein in- flames, it ought to be treated according to the rules already ex- plained ; the symptoms arc almost always subacute oiT'chronio, and local remedies merely arc required. When it bleeds, pressure