MOUTH. 529 iiuicous membrane ma^^ be stitched together. Ulcers extending over almost the whole surface of the lip may in this way be completely excised, with hardly any deformity or inconvenience. On all occasions the surgeon should take care that the whole of the induration surrounding the sore is removed, and he ought to abstain from operating when the glands under the chin, or in the neck, are affected. Tongue. The tongue is liable to ulceration in consequence of chronic derangement of the digestive organs,—the injurious effect which is produced on the system by the excessive use of mercury,— and the influence of local irritation, such as that proceeding from sharp poiats of the teeth. In the first of these cases, the ulcers are generally small, round, and yellowish-coloured; they are seated chiefly on the edge and inferior surface of the organ, which usually appears somewhat swollen and marked with the shape of the teeth. Their remedy consists in an alterative course of diet and medicine, together with some astringent ap- plication, such as powdered borax or alum. The ulcers that are met with in persons whose constitutions are vitiated by mercuiy present a bluish colour, and are extremely irregular in shape. They affect the edge of the tongue especially, and appear in the form of chaps or superficial excoriations. The sulphate of copper used once a day, either solid or in solution, is the best local application; and the gi'adual improvement that takes place in such states of the system, through time and a proper mode of living, must be trusted to as the means of affording permanent security against their continuance or recurrence. The sores which result from the irritation of the teeth occur, of course, at the part exposed to its operation. They present vari- ous appearances, according to the circumstances of the case, but are easily recognised by the existence of a tooth presenting a sharp edge in their neighbourhood. The treatment obviously reqxiires immediate removal of the initation, by smoothing the rough surface of the tooth, or extracting it; and advantage is 2 M