GENITAL OKGANS. 459 disease from being put in practice, without inflicting a mortal injury. A few cases are recorded in which the uterus is said to have been extii-pated when previously prolapsed beyond the ori- fice of the vagina, and permanently retained in this situation by the adhesions resulting from inflammation. It is only in such circumstances that the operation ought ever to be contemplated, and even here it must be regarded as affording a very small chance of success, so that, unless the patient's sufferings are very great, and threaten to" terminate fatally soon, it coidd hardly be recommended with propriety, y The uterus may be extirpated more safely, when it is in the state named Inversion by accoucheurs. It is in this case turned inside out, so as to form a round or pjrriform tumour, either con- fined to the vagina, or protruded beyond the vulva. When this eversion, which generally takes place at the time of delivery, is not immediately remedied, it is apt to become irreducible ; and the patient suffers many disagreeable symptoms from the un- natural condition of the organ, especially frequent hemorrhage, down-bearing pains, and general weakness. In cases that resist more gentle means, the tumour may be removed by ligature, which should be of strong twine or silk; and either applied simply roimd its neck, or carried through the middle of it double by means of a needle, one of the threads being then tied on each side. If disagreeable effects ensue, opiate injections into the rectum, and the hip-bath, will be the most efficient measures for affording relief Polypous excrescences frequently grow from the inner surface of the uterus, and either remain confined to its cavity, or descend into the vagina, sometimes even protruding externally. These tumours have a pyiifonn shape, and a firm consistence. They possess little sensibility, but much vascularity, and occasion many unpleasant symptoms, such as bloody and mucous dis- charges, pain in the back, weakness, emaciation, and general bad health. Tliey cannot be either positively recognised, or removed, unless they extend below the os %tcri, or have access afforded to them by dilatation of the oiifice. If they cannot be brought