PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY, 130 by erectile tissue, as the penis, nipple, or wattles of the turkey- cock, in all probability exercise a similar power in a similar manner, but only on a greater scale, proportioned to the develop- ment of their structure. Instead, therefore, of being constituted by distinct cells interposed between the veins and arteries, they consist merely of the capillary vessels dilated. In some animals the natural erectile tissue is evidently formed in this way, as, for instance, the glans penis of the ram and fallow-deer, and there are a few cases recorded in which the morbid erectile tissue was no less distinctly composed of dilated and convoluted vessels. \^ Under the head of Morbid Erectile Tissue may be ranged— Aneurism by anastomosis and Neevus. Aneurism by anastomosis is almost always seated in the texture lying under the skin, which is more or less elevated, and in general slightly discoloured, having a blue or purple shade observable in it. The swelling throbs synchronously with the heart, becomes smaller when compressed, and more turgid when the circulation through the arteries is excited, or that through the veins impeded. At birth it is usually small, frequently hardly perceptible, and sometimes does not enlarge until puberty. After becoming active it generally increases in size, at length opening, bleeds from time to time. Its most common situations ^ are the head, neck, hands, and- feet. The best remedy for this disease is ^gxcision; and in performing the operation, it is proper to cut quickly and completely beyond the morbid structure. The ligature also may be employed, care being taken to embrace the whole extent of the disease—since a troublesome or even fatal hemorrhage may otherwise result. The arteries leading to the diseased part becoming much enlarged and tortuous, have repeatedly suggested the trial of attempting to afford relief by tying them, but in no case with success. Ligature of the arterial trunks, as the carotid in aneurism by anastomosis of the face or scalp, has also, for the most part, proved unavailing, though in some instances the result proved more satisfactory. The carotid artery has been tied with success in various cases of swelling in the orbit, which seemed to be of this nature ; but as they were