241 JOINTS. of external injury, but these symptoms in the great majority of cases are merely the effects of sprains ; and real dislocation of the joint is an extremely rare occurrence. It may take place in two directions, forwards and backwards, the bones of the carpus being driven upwards under either the extensors or the flexors. The causes are faUs on the hand. The reduction is efiected by extending the hand, and pressing on the dislocated bones. Tlmmh.—The first or proximal phalanx of the thumb is occasionally dislocated from its connection with the metacarpal bone in consequence of falls or blows. It is driven upwards and baclcwards, where the extremity can be felt distinctly, while that of the metacarpal bone is not less perceptible on the palmar side. The reduction of this apparently trivial displacement has been generally found very difficult, and sometimes altogether impracticable, the reason of which would seem to be, that the lateral ligaments of the joint remain more or less entire, and being stretched by the wedge-shaped extremity of the metacai'pal bone in passing between them, afford.,a serious obstacle to its return. The best mode of proceeding is to extend the thumb with moderate force, and at the same time to exert strong pressure on the extremity of the phalanx in the proper direction for pushing it into its place. The operation, when thus performed, is some- times executed with great facility. In cases where the difficulty proves insuperable, one of the lateral ligaments may be cut, wliich would certainly be better than leaving the bone unreduced, as has sometimes been the case. A needle sharp on the edges, or a very small Imife, should be employed for this purpose, so as merely to puncture the skin. Fingers.—Both the proximal and distal, or .first and third phalanges of the fingers, are occasionally dislocated backwards, so that the displaced extremity rests on the dorsal surface of the corresponcling bone. The accident can hardly be overlooked or mistaken, and the reduction is generally very easy, provided the force employed be directed chiefly upon the projecting end of the phalanx.