GENITAL ORGANS. 437 general healtli, and for local applications, the nitrate of silver, sulphate of copper, and the black-wash, are in general the best remedies. When the obstinacy of the sore is excessive, it may be necessary to destroy the surface by caustic potass. Bubo. The irritation of a sore on the genitals, of whatever kind, or wherever situated, especially if aggravated by exercise or intem- perance, is veiy apt to occasion swelling and inflammation of the inguinal glands. The buboes thus produced differ in no respect, so far as regards their treatment, from those which owe their origin to other sources; and an erroneous opinion, that formerly led to the most mischievous consequences, namely, that, when caused by chancres, they were tainted with the syphilitic poison, and required a course of mercury for their removal, is now happily exploded. The mercury which, imder this idea, used to be constantly prescribed in their treatment, by exciting fever and increasing the irritability of the system, often occasioned the most destructive phagedenic or sloughing effects, and, when less obviously injurious, rendered the ulcers that resulted from the buboes extremely obstinate, and some- times almost incurable. Instead of thus encouraging the irritation, the object should be to soothe and allay it as much as possible. Whenever the patient begins to feel pain in his groin, he should desist from walking, assume the horizontal posture, and foment the parts, two or three times a day, with hot water. When swelling is perceived, leeches are usually applied; and certainly almost always with the effect, in the first instance, of lessening the timiour and diminishing the redness. But there seems to be good reason for thinldng that the local abstraction of blood is apt to render the morbid process more slow and obstinate, so that the patient suffers much more than if the disease had not been thus retarded. Wann fomentations, cathartics, and, above all, healing of the sores, are the most effectual means for resolving the inflammation; while, if suppuration does take place, these