371 PELVIS. until the ligatures separate. If lie suffers much irritation, which is seldom the case, he will derive most relief from doses of the muriate of morphia, repeated as often as may be necessary, and the hip-bath. Eetention of urine is a frequent consequence of the operation, and may require the introduction of a catheter. In the piles depending upon a varicose state of the veins, relief may be afforded during the inflammatoiy paroxysm by puncturing the distended vessels and squeezing out their coagulated contents. Polypus of the Rectum. Vascular growths from the mucous lining of the rectum, hav-. iag a rounded form, and narrow elongated neck, so as to resemble a cherry, are occasionally met with in the vicinity of the anus. They protrude at stool, and occasion various unpleasant feelings, besides sometimes giving rise to copious hemorrhage. They should be removed by ligatures, which may be applied either simply or by transfixion.' Prolapsus Ani. Prolapsus Ani denotes a protrusion of the intestinal coats through the anus, so as to constitute an external tumour. The extent to which tliis occurs varies from the slightest eversion of the mucous membrane immediately within the sphincter, to the descent of the whole thickness of the gut for a considerable part of its length. Whatever portion is forced beyond the sphincter has its circulation impeded, and consequently becomes thickened and livid. Wlien the mucous membrane alone is everted, it presents the appearance of a ring ; but when there is prolapsus of all the coats, the tumour is globular, varying from the size of an egg to that of a child's head, and affords a copious secretion of bloody mucus, which very much resembles red currant jelly. Prolapsus of the whole thickness of the gut, or what may be called complete prolapsus, occurs chiefly in children and aged persons, especially females of relaxed frame. That of the inner membrane, or partial prolapsus, is generally observed in the vigour of life. The exciting causes of the former are, in children, severe