PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. 102 maintained, that aneurisms might result either from simple dila- tation of the vessel, or from expansion of the cellular siibstance, and therefore divided them into true and false, accordingly as the artery was dilated or ruptured. Scarpa laboured to prove that the former do not exist, there being always rupture of the internal and middle coats. He has not succeeded in establishing his opinion to the full extent, but has certainly ascertained that it is extremely rare to find the artery entire, and forming the sac by its mere expansion. Aneurisms may be conveniently divided into true and false. The former being those in which one or more of the arterial coats remain entire ; the latter, those in which the vessel is completely ruptured, and the sac is formed by the surrounding cellular substance. Ti-ue aneurisms may be subdivided into those which consist of simple dilatation of all the coats, and those in which the external one alone remains entire. The former are very rare, and nearly confined to two parts of the arterial system—^viz., the aorta, and arteries of the brain. It was formerly supposed, from careless observation, that aneurism of the aorta generally de- pended on dilatation of all the coats, but Scarpa shewed that, in the great majority of cases, the inner ones at least were ruptured. Exceptions, however, are sometimes met with, in which there can be no doubt as to the integrity of the vessel. In the arteries of the brain, the external coat is very thin, and affords little resist- ance when the inner ones are destroyed by disease. Aneurism is therefore very rare in this situation, and when it does occur, depends on a general dilatation of the vessel. The true aneurisms, in which the internal coats are destroyed, and the external one alone remains, are much more common. Their shape is not so regular as that of the last-mentioned kind, since the external coat does not dilate uniformly roimd the cir- cumference of the vessel, but usually expands on that side where the internal layers are ruptured, so as to form a sort of bag or pouch, which often has only a very narrow communication ynth. the artery. The blood, which is received into this cavity, being