PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 396 quently near the neck, where there is no covering of peritoneum. The urine no sooner begins to flow through the preternatural channel, than the patient experiences relief from the distress he previously suffered, and can hardly be persuaded that he is not ^making water in the ordinary way. The extravasated fluid may diffuse itself in all directions—upwards between the bladder and ! pubis, and laterally by the sides of the prostate, and downwards into the scrotum. The fascia, which lies under the integuments of the perineum, prevents the formation of any tumour in this situation ; but when the fluid gets through the less dense mem- brane opposite the scrotum, it speedily distends tlie loose cellular substance, and produces a large globular swelling. The urine, after being thus effused, soon excites great irritation, the effects of which are intense local inflammation, and constitutional dis- turbance of the most alarming character. The distended scrotum becomes first red, and before many hours black, while the system suffers as if influenced by some deadly poison; a quick small pulse, dark-coloured tongue, frequent vomiting, incessant hiccup, and low delirium, are the indications which betray this danger- ous condition; and death soon closes the scene unless some active means of relief are speedily and successfully administered. A free incision should be made in the perineum, through the fascia, and down to the infiltrated cellular substance. The scrotum may be scarified also, and hot fomentations ought to be applied to promote the discharge of putrid urine, blood, and sloughs ; while, at the same time, the patient's strength is dili- gently supported by wine and other cordials. If the njine has insinuated itself extensively into the cellular substance of the pelvis, all these means wUl be unavailing ; but if it has been chiefly confined to the scrotum and neighbourhood, a cure may be accomplished with careful management, and after a long con- finement. A surgeon should never hesitate to make free inci- sions in such cases, however desperate they may at first appear, since recoveries have taken place in ajjparently the most hopeless circumstances, when extensive slougldng was complicated with the weakness of old age.