SUPPURATION. 63 of the matter causes absorption of the surrounding parts, and, in conformity with the general law that those yield to it most readily which lie nearest the surface, the covering of the abscess becomes thinner and thinner, so that the sldn alone remaining, it projects from the distension of the fluid, and becomes so thin as to allow the colour of the pus to be perceived through it. The abscess is then said to point, and soon afterwards, the absorption stiU continuing, an aperture takes place, which allows the con- , tents to escape. A discharge of matter issues from the opening for some time afterwards, but gradually becomes thinner, and diminishes in quantity until the cavity is healed. It is generally stated that this process of cure depends on a growth of granulations from the whole surface of the cavity, which is thus gradually filled up. But if this were the case, it is plain that there ought to be a permanent solid enlargement of the part concerned; for pus does not proceed from the breaking down or softening of the natural tissues, as was formerly sup- posed, and is merely secreted by the vessels into the interstices between them. It separates 'the muscles, condenses the celliilar texture, and elevates the skin, so as to obtain room for its recep- tion ; but so soon as vent is afforded for its escape, all the parts that have been pressed aside resume their natural situation, the cavity of the abscess is thus at once greatly diminished, and the contracting effect of the granulating action which ensues upon . its surface completes its obb'teration. Instead of waiting for the natural evacuation of abscesses, it is usual to make an artificial opening, in order to hasten the cure. This ought not to be done in general until the flu.ctuation is dis- tinct, especially if the abscess be seated in a glandular texture, as the process of reparation is otherwise apt to be rendered slow and imperfect. On the other hand, if the abscess is left entirely to itself, the skin frequently becomes so thin and impoverished at the part where it points, as not to possess sufficient power of action for uniting with the subjacent surface, and requires to be divided to this extent, so that the patient suffers much more than he would have done if the abscess had been opened.