EXTERNAL INJURIES. 155 The constitutional disturbance follows, and after being fairly- instituted, it cannot be subdued by removing the part on wbicli tbe morbid matter primarily acted. The effect of some of these poisons will be more particularly considered hereafter. At present it may be observed, that the treatment proper for them in the first instance requires to be merely local, and should be conducted on the same principles of prevention, as that of natural poisons. In regard to hydrophobia, it is believed that, if the injured part be cut out, or otherwise removed, any time before the constitutional symptoms appear, the patient wiU. be certainly protected from them. The poisonous effects of dead animal matter are involved in considerable obscurity. It frequently happens that wounds re- ceived ia the dissection of animals after death, whether for anatomical investigation or the preparation of food, are followed by troublesome consequences, both local and general. It is ob- served that those which have a punctured form are most apt to be so. Sometimes there is violent inflammation of one or aU the tissues ia the neighbourhood, from the sldn to the bone, termi- nating speedily in suppuration or sloughing. In the finger this constitutes what is called paronychia or whitlow. The absorbent vessels leading from the injured part often inflame, and by propagating their morbid action to the surrounding tissues, occasion hard painful cords under the skin, and red lines on its surface. Still more frequently the lymphatic glands in the course of the absorbents inflame and suppurate. At other times the patient first complains of cold shivering, headache, and vomitmg of bilious matter, after which the usual symptoms of fever come on, and are generally characterised by extreme irritation—the pulse being excessively qxuck—the respiration veiy hurried— and the countenance unusually expressive of anxiety. Along with this derangement of the system, a diffused inflammatory blush appears in the neighbourhood of the injury, from which it soon extends itself irregularly in various directions, and, termin- ating in mortification, proves fatal within a week or little more ; or the patient may die, as it seems, merely from the exhausting