152 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. its vitality, I believe that cold apj)lications and cotton will in general prove most useful; and if the textvire of the part be destroyed, there can be notliing better than a poultice, until the sloughs separate. In either case, ulceration sooner or later is established, and then the treatment will be the same for both. Should the patient's strength prove inadequate to support the tedious and exliaustiag process of cure, if the part affected is seated on a limb, it ought to be amputated. Poiso7ks. By poisons are understood agents which have the power of destroying the structure, or inducing disturbance in the actions of the body, independently of mechanical violence and tempera- ture. Those which directly affect the structure are named Escharotic Poisons, or simply escharotics. Of these the most powerful are potass, the concentrated mineral acids, and some metallic salts, as the nitrate of silver, oxymuriate of mercury, and chloride of zinc. They are frequently used intentionally to remove morbid structures, etc., and are then named Caustics. Occasionally, whether from accident or design, they are applied so as to produce serious injury. In such cases, as theu' effect is generally completed before surgical assistance can be procured, the only treatment admissible is that which promotes separation of the slough and healing of the sore. Poultices, until the first of these stages is completed, and then lotions wjth pressure, afford most benefit. 1 Poisons, more strictly speaking, are those agents which pro- 1 duce their effects independently of chemical properties, as well as mechanical force and temperature ; they do not directly alter the structure to which they are applied, but produce such changes in its natural actions as frequently give rise to the most important local and general consequences. A very large propor- tion of the articles comprehended in this class are employed to produce their effects in order to relieve the system from other diseases, whence they are named, not poisons, but medicines,—