BONES. 191 condyles. Such accidents are generally caused by falls on the hand or elbow, and though they not uufrequently occvir in adults, are particularly common in children, and very apt to be mistaken for dislocation of the fore-arm backwards. The trans- verse fracture may be distinguished by the deformity disappear- ing on slight extension, and returning when the limb is left to itself, but is best detected by extending and bending the fore- arm alternately while one hand embraces the elbow. The oblique fracture is easily recognised if the external and internal tuberosities be pressed backwards and forwards with the two hands. The treatment of this injury is extremely simple, re- quiring merely compresses of tow before and behind, and a figure of 8 bandage applied while the bones are carefully held in the proper position, the elbow-joint being afterwards kept at a right angle. But the consequences of mistaking the nature of the case, and leaving the limb unsupported after extension has temporarily restored it to proper shape, are most distressing, the arm being always deformed, and generally stiff. "When the fracture occurs above the attachments of the pec- tor alis major and latissimus dor si, it is said to be in the neck of the humerus. In this case the muscles just mentioned draw the lower portion of the bone towards the side, while the supra- spxTiatus and other muscles inserted into the tuberosities cause the upper fragment to project forwards and rather oiitwards. This accident happens from falls on the shoulder, and is easily recognised by placing one hand in the axilla, while the other subjects the humerus alternately to abduction and addiiction. The treatment reqiiires a compress in the axilla to counteract the effect of the pectoralis major and latissimus dorsi, with a spica bandage to restrain the upper extremity of the bone from being everted, and a sling to support the Umb. The clavicle is freq\xently fractured, by external violence acting directly, and also when transmitted through more or less extent of the superior extremity. The pain, swelling, mobility, and crepitus of the broken part, which is usually about the beginning of the acromial curvature, readily betray the injury,