186 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. will be required but the prevention of movement, while the strongest extending force will prove inadequate to coiTect any defect of the original adjustment. The plan of treatment recommended by Mr. Pott, which was to lay the limb on its outer side with the knee bent, and merely apply two pasteboard splints to prevent the ends of the bones from moving, is very objectionable. It does not afford sufficient rest, and renders a permanent eversion of the limb almost unavoid- able, from the patient turning on his back during the cure, and thus causing the bones to unite in such a manner as to produce this effect. The double inclined plane, of various forms and materials, is much used, and has the sanction of high authority. It is alleged to relax the muscles by a bent position of the joints, without occasioning the inconvenience last mentioned, and also to effect extension by the weight of the body, which is, as it were, suspended from the injured thigh. But, as has been already observed, the muscles are equally tense when the joints of both the knee and hip are bent, as when they are extended; and extension could hardly be obtained by suspending the body from the knee, without causing injurious and insufferable pressure on the popUteal vessels. The upper portion of the bone, too, must be influenced by every motion of the patient's body, and accor- dingly the worst cases of retracted and un-united femur are met with in persons treated by means of the inclined plane, by sm- geons whose known reputation precludes the objection that the machine might have been carelessly or unskilfully employed. Even granting that its efficiency were equal to that of the long splint, the simplicity and facUity of procui'ing the latter apparatus would render it preferable. Particular circumstances, however, occasionally occur, which render the inclined plane preferable, such as the existence of a wound, or rigidity of the knee-joint from previous disease, or peculiarities in the direction of the broken surfaces, and therefore every surgeon ought to be provided with it. The thigh-bone is occasionally fractured through one or other of the condyles into the knee joint, in which case the best treat- ment consists in placing the linib straight, in order that the