106 PKINCIPLES OF SUHGERY. 3. The sac opens by ulceration or slougliing, without previous obstruction of the vessel. The consequence of the two first of these terminations is a natural cure ; that of the third, hemorrhage. The treatment of aneurism consists in the use of means which tend to promote one or other of the two salutary processes just mentioned. The earliest attempts of this kind were directed with a view to the second of them, and their rudeness was equalled by their severity. The sac having been opened by cutting or burn- ing, its contents were turned out, and then the hemorrhage was restrained by repeated aj)plications of the actual cautery, or some other powerful styptic. The introduction of the ligature for closing the mouths of arteries rendered this operation less pain- ful, formidable, and uncertain ; but the difficulty and danger attending it continued to be very great, and the instances of recovery were extremely rare. Surgeons, therefore, turned their attention to the other mode of natural cure, and endeavoured to promote coagulation, by lessening the force of the circulation, through the effect of bleeding, low diet, and rest. This plan of treatment is usually distinguished as that of Valsalva. In addi- tion to these means, Guattani recommended tight bandaging of the Kmb and tumour. Both methods were foiind to be extremely inefficient and uncertain, so that, though productive of less hann, they hardly afforded more benefit than the bloody proceeding which has been already described, and was in those days called the Operation for Aneurism. Amputation of the limb affected was therefore generally preferred, until it fortunately occuiTed to N John Hunter (1785), and much about the same time to Desault, that an effectual method of causing coagulation would be to obstruct the artery above the tumour, or between it and the heart, so that thus the natural cure by coagulation and absorp- tion might be safely and certainly induced. The first trials of this new practice were hardly so successful ' as was anticipated, owing to the vexatious, alarming, and not unfrequently fatal hemon-hage which attended the separation of the ligature applied to efleet obstruction of the artery. To