215 BONES. their form is circular and their edges rounded off, so that sharp edges cannot anywhere be perceived. The newly-effused bone may thus be readily distinguished from the diseased part, to the irritation of-which it owes its origin. It is necessary also to distinsuish between caries, and the excavation of the cancellated texture which is caused by absorption owing to pressure. In this case the bone presents the same appearance that it would do if its external crust were removed by mechanical means; and it possesses none of the whiteness, brittleness, or spicular surface observed in caries. As this difference can hardly be ascertained until after maceration, a more useful distinction is afforded by the history of the case, and whenever the excavation is plainly referrible to pressure, no apprehension need be entertained of caries. It is thought by many that deep-seated collections of matter, if not evacuated early, may occasion caries; but when tliis morbid state of the bone is connected with deep suppuration, it wiU always be found to have been the direct result of the primary inflammation. That mere pressure is not sufficient to produce caries, may be learned from the want of any morbid disposition in the sides of the apertures which are formed by absorption to evacuate matter confined in the cavities of bones. In the living body the carious surface is generally more or less completely covered with imhealthy granulations, which often possess very considerable firmness, and render the discovery of its extent, or even existence, by no means easy. The disease occurs at all ages, but commences most frequently in the early periods of life. It is most frequently met with in persons dis- posed to scrofulous action, and often follows suppuration in bones which have been the seat of deposits proceeding from that morbid disposition. The treatment of caries is to be conducted on the same prin- ciples as that of cancer, and consists in the use of means which have the effect either of destroying the life of the morbid part, or of removing it at once from the system. There is this differ- ence, however, that there being no malignant tendency to take on the same diseased action in the neighbouring parts, it is not