PEINCIPLES OF SUKGEKY. 536 pulling one of the grinders, or a stump remaining in the place of one of them, as the partition between the bottom of the alve- olar hollow and the antrum is so thin as to afford no resistance which a common probe is not able to overcome. In this way, however, little advantage is obtained, as the matter is still not evacuated with sufficient freedom, and it is usually found neces- sary to establish a more ample aperture by separating the cheek from the gum opposite the bicuspid teeth, and breaking down the anterior wall of the cavity, sufficiently to admit the point of a finger, which, oAving to the weakness of the bone at this part, may be executed more easily than might be expected. Tumours of the Gums and Jaws. Excrescences of a firm substance, irregular surface, and usually whitish colour, are not unfrequently met with proceeding from the gums. If allowed to pursue their own course, they increase in size, loosen the teeth in their neighbourhood, and at length may prove fatal by causing hemorrhage, profuse discharge of matter, or excessive and long-continued pain. These growths ought to be freely cut away, and as they extead to the alveolar process, the adjacent teeth must be extracted, so that the excision may be completely effected by cutting-pHers. Both the upper and the lower jaws are liable to morbid degene- ration of structure, giving rise to medullary and fibro-cartilagin- ous tumours. The former occurs more frequently in the upper than the lower, and generally extends to the bones of the nose and orbit; the latter is more common in the lower jaw. The medullary growth, as in other parts of the system, is attended with severe pain, an unhealthy appearance, and in its more ad- vanced stage, profuse fetid discharge or hemorrhage. The fibro- cartilaginous tumour, though sometimes in the first instance the seat of uneasy sensations, u.sually produces no inconvenience except by its bulk, to wliich no limits can be set. At length occasional bleeding takes place from the surface, but this seldom happens until the tumour has existed for years, and attained a V ery large size. There is never any purulent or fetid matter dis-