523 MOUTH. nerve, the consequence of wMcli is an unseemly and distressing paralysis of tlie face. A very free incision of the integuments should be made to facilitate the subsequent dissection. After the whole of the external surface of the tumour has been exposed, its anterior edge should be turned back by degrees, as the sub- jacent connections are divided, which ought to be done by cutting u^on the tumour so as to divide the connecting cellular sub- stance, without endangering the neighbouring parts by carrying the knife parallel to the surface of the tumour. The arteries that require ligatures are to be tied, and as a troublesome oozing of blood is apt to take place from the glandular substance of the parotid, a piece of lint or sponge should be placed over the wound. Tumours are occasionally met with under the tongue, varying in size, and prodTicing accordingly more or less inconvenience. Of these the most common is named Eanula. It consists of a sac containing fluid, which is usually thick and glairy like the white of eggs, but sometimes is watery, or of a pultaceous con- sistence, like that of porridge or boiled rice. Hardly any limits can be assigned to the extent of such formations, if allowed to increase without interference. The tongue is impeded in its movements—articulation and deglutition are rendered very diffi- cult—the cavity of the mouth is completely occupied by the tumour—and it also appears under the chin. The swelling is generally attributed to distension of the submaxillary duct, owing to obstruction of its orifice, but really depends on the pre- sence of an encysted tumour. The treatment it requires is exci- sion of an oval piece of the cyst, together with the superjacent mucous membrane, which may be easily effected by means of a hook and knife, or pair of curved scissors. The cavity suppu- rates and granulates, and if the lining membrane is very thick, or slow in taking on a proper action, it may be touched with caustic. In some cases I have succeeded in removing the whole of the cyst, so as to prevent any delay in healing from its presence. Fatty tumours occasionally grow in the situation of ranula,