PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 82 Medullary sarcoma may occur in any tissue of the body, but originates most frequently in tlie Itiones, testicle, mamma, and .gye ; next to wliicli the subcutaneous cellular texture, brain, and lymphatic glands, are the most common seats of its commence- ment. Lilce carcinoma, it extends both into the neighbouring parts and along the absorbents. It occurs at all ages, but is most frequently met with in infants, and adults between twenty and forty. It is recognised by its soft semi-fluctuating con- sistence, which is sometimes very apt to make the swelling be regarded as depending on the presence of a fluid. The suj)erficial Ygins become yery jnrich Qnlargejl; but as they do so, though hardly to the same extent, in nearly aU chronic enlargements, this diagnostic mark must be considered merely as a con-obora- tion of the more positive evidence which is afforded by the con- sistence, situation, and history of the tumour. The pain that attends it is extremely^uncertain, beiag in some cases very severe, in others hardly perceptible. This morbid growth, after attaining a certain size, tends to open and protrude the soft substance composing it. It does so by sloughing, the formation and evacuation of an abscess, or simplyjilceratiari.. In whichever of these ways the bm-sting, as it is called, takes place, the integuments covering the tumour first become red and adherent, then the breach is established, the substance of the tumour presents itself to view, and fungous excresceiiQes usually shoot out from the cavity. The discharge that ensues is always profuse, and generally very thin, excessively fetid, and occasionally bloody. In some cases, pure blood is effused from time to time in considerable quantity ; and hence, Mr. Hay of Leeds, who first gave a general description of the disease, named it Fungus Hcematodes. TMs term cannot be applied with propriety, and leads to much confusion, because the fungous protrusions of medullary sarcoma do not always, or even generally, bleed, while a bleeding fungus may appear without being preceded by the medullary formation. There is nothing peculiar in the texture of such bleeding excrescences ; and if the term fitngv^ hcematodes be retained, it should have its use con-