144 PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. with this view. They afford sufficient support without causing injurious pressure on the textures concerned, and, producing no irritation, may be allowed to remain untU the process of reunion is so firmly completed as to render any further protection unne- cessary. When the superficial extent of a wound is very small in pro- portion to its dej)th, it is said to be pmctui-ed. Such wounds being caused by instruments which have small points and blunt edges, are not formidable in their appearance, but usually turn out much more troublesome than incisions of far greater size, by occasioning extensive inflammation and widely difi"used suppu- ration. These bad consequences of punctures are usually ascribed to their penetrating some texture, which inflames and gives rise to the effects in question; but it seems more reason- able to refer the diffused inflammation occasioned by them, to the confinement of the discharge which necessarily results from their narrow aperture, and the resistance of the fibrous expan- sions which have been injured. The most effectual method of checking the inflammation which proceeds from punctures, consists in dilating the orifice of the wound, and it is, therefore, often recommended to do tlais immediately after their infliction, to prevent bad consequences. It does not appear, however, that the chance of these is thus diminished; and, therefore, the most prudent course is, in the first instance, merely to apply cold water or other lotions proper for moderating action and preventing inflammation. Should it actually commence, dilatation ought to be performed without delay, and then fomentations with poultices are proper for a few days, or imtil the suppurative action is fully established, when compression and moist dressing must be substituted in their stead. Contused wounds are solutions of continuity, in which the surfaces are injured by the violence that occasions them—^the agent being usually some blunt sm-face, which strikes, or on which the body is impelled, with great force. Contused woimds in general bleed less than incised ones; their surface is ragged