464 PRINCIPLES OP SUEGEKY. some liours, or it may be a day or more, the patient begins to give signs of returning consciousness, lie recovers very imperfectly, and only for a sliort interval before inflammation commences. In such cases, death often occurs within a few hours, or even a shorter period, after the accident, and before any signs of recovery from the insensible state can be perceived. The treatment of concussion may be conveniently considered, in reference to the three stages of the consequences of the injury which have been mentioned, namely, that of the concussion pro- perly—that of recovery—and that of inflammation. Diu'iug the first of these, little or nothing ought to be done, except putting the patient to bed, and applying some source of artificial heat to his feet if necessary. Bleeding would be decidedly improper; and the exhibition of internal stimulants, though it might hasten the recovery of sensibility, might also increase the violence of subsequent reaction. Unless, therefore, the signs of debihty in the vital actions should be alarming, the patient may be trusted entirely to the powers of his constitution. The second stage, or return of sensibility, requires more atten- tion, since the treatment during this stage greatly influences the succeeding one. The patient is apt to suppose himself quite well, and to have fortunately made a very easy escape from the effects of his accident; but were he, in accordance with this belief, to expose himself to cold, or subject himself to the excitement of exercise or stimulating food and drink, he would increase the risk of inflammation, and aggravate its intensity beyond that which would otherwise have resulted from the injury. He ought, therefore, to be confined to the house, or to bed if the case is severe, and restricted to the most scrupulous antiphlogistic regi- men for a few days. So far as the brain is directly concerned, he might safely resume his usual habits after this period of probation, but its coverings being apt to suifer, or perhaps, more correctly, to shew signs of the suffering at a more distant date, in conse- quence of the injury they have undergone, as will be explained hereafter, he should for several weeks at least be very abstinent, if the blow has been at all severe. The restoration of the sen-