PRINCIPLES or SURGERY. 282 seems to him that his heel has sunlc into a hole, and a noise as of a cord giving way is occasionally heard, both by him and the by-standers. When the limb is examined, a hollow may be felt at the part where the tendon is torn, owing to the retraction of its extremities. The patient, by means of the deep-seated ex- tensors of the ankle, retains the power of extending the foot slightly when there is no resistance except its own weight, but cannot do so with any considerable force, such as is required in walking. Strong adult males are most subject to this accident. The treatment consists in bending the knee, and extending the ankle so as to relax the gastrocnemius as much as possible, applying lateral compresses at the injured part to keep the ends of the tendon in proper position, and supporting the hmb with a bandage. Various contrivances have been employed to maintain the requisite posture. Of these the slipper and calf-piece of Monro^ may be first mentioned. The calf-piece Dr. Monro compares to the aiiicle of dress which jockeys wear to connect their breeches and boots, differing only in so far that it is made to lace on, instead of being buttoned. By means of a strap and buckle, the heel of the slipper can be drawn up to this bandage and secured, so as to effect permanent extension of the ankle. Petit used a similar apparatus, with this difference, that the strap coming from the heel of the slipper was fastened to a collar surrounding the thigh above the knee, which had the advantage of keeping the knee bent, as well as the foot extended. This seems, on the whole, to be the best method, and an apparatus sufficiently effective for the purpose may be readily constructed extemporaneously, or a spHnt may be applied on the front of the ankle to keep the foot in an extended position. Compresses of lint should be placed on each side of the tendon at the ruptured part. In the course of three or four weeks the reunion is completed; but it does not be- come strong enough to resist much force until a considerably longer period has elapsed, during which the patient should be cautious in using the limb, and, as a precaution against straining the tendon, wear a liigh-heeled shoe.