PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 486 stance are emetics, wliicli sometimes appear to cut short the \^ morbid process. The mercurial and saline purgatives, with gentle diaphoretics, should be frequently administered,—^blisters applied to the epigastrium seem very serviceable,—and opiates have often a remarkably good effect in soothing the sensation of heat on the surface of the body, procuring sleep, and otherwise diminishing the uneasy symptoms of the disease. General bleeding can rarely be used with propriety, and stimulants are hardly more admissible except in the advanced stage. By Erysipelas is understood an inflammation of the skin, more deeply seated and less disposed to shift its place than ery- thema, and which tends to terminate in effusion of serum under the cuticle, elevating it into vesicles. The skin may be affected either alone or together with the subjacent cellular texture. In the former case the swelling, though distinctly perceptible, is slight, the surface is red, tense, and glistening, and vesicles of variable size soon make their appearance. In the latter, which is styled phlegmonous erysipelas, the swelling is more consider- able, but the other symptoms are the same; and the most important difference is established by the result, which is apt to be suppuration or sloughing. The constitutional disturbance, that precedes the appearance of erysipelas, is of the same land as that which goes before erythema, but seldom proves so severe. The patient complains of headache, bad taste in his mouth, and coldness ; and when the skin inflames, his general uneasiness, so far from increasing, generally diminishes very much, or entii'cly subsides. The head is the part of the body most frequently affected by • erysipelas, and, along with the external inflammation, there are usually symptoms denoting an excited condition of the internal organs. The causes of erysipelas resemble those of erythema, but differ in so far that they depend more upon peculiarities of the individual. It occurs as often when there is no wound, as when there is one; and it is almost confined to those persons whose , general healtli is previously deranged, particidarly in regard to their biliary secretions, and by intemperance. In the