PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 222 their power of resistance, and thus gives them a remarkable flattened shape. Eickets used to be ascribed to the operation of a morbid acid humour pervading the system, and the remedy consequently con- sisted in liberally supplying the patient with alkaline and earthy preparations, in order to neutralize this acidity, and replace the defective earth of the bones, which was supposed to have been removed by its chemical agency. The disease is now referred, more consistently with scientific pathology, simply to disorder of the nutritive action of the osseous tissue, and the means em- ployed to correct it are merely those which tend to strengthen the system in general, while eveiy prudent precaution is taken to prevent the bones from suffering distortion, so long as they remain exposed to it by theu- softness and flexibility. With these objects in view, the patient ought to be frequently put into a warm bath, and every day have the whole surface of the body subjected to friction. He shoidd be warmly clothed, and, if possible, removed to a dry situation sheltered from the cold. His diet must be moderate, easily digestible, and nourish- ing ; and he should abstain from all medicine, except what is required to maintain or excite the intestinal secretions. While the bones are in a yielding state, exercise in the erect posture may cause curvature and distortion, especially of the bones com- posing the trunk and inferior extremities; the patient ought, therefore, to be debarred from walking, running, etc., and encouraged to creep and roll upon the floor or on the ground in the open air. Should the limbs unfortunately have been bent through neglect or injudicious treatment, they may often be straightened by the gentle and continued use of splints or other apparatus. Mollities and Fragilitas Ossiim. By Mollities Ossium or Malacosteon is understood a general disease of the bones, in which they become extremely soft, much more so than in rickets, so that in its advanced stages there hardly remains any trace of the osseous texture, and the perios-