PPJNCirLES OF SURaERY. 516 edge of tlie eyelid, or roots of the cilia, to the same distance from the lowest hairs of the eye-brow, and reach the whole length of the eyelid, so that the form of the raw surface may appear nearly round when the eye is closed. Scissors of the usual form are quite sufficient for the purpose, but they prove more convenient when curved on the side. The cut edges must be brought into accurate contact by stitches of the inten-upted suture, introduced at the distance of a quarter of an inch from each other. The wound heals by the first intention, and leaves hardly any vestige of its existence. In very aggravated cases it has been found necessary to divide the eyelids at their external commissure, in order to obtain sufficient relaxation for effecting the requisite eversion. By Trichiasis is understood a morbid state, which pro- duces nearly the same symptoms as entropium, but depends upon somewhat different circumstances. It seems to consist in an improper direction of the eyelashes, which, instead of defend- ing the eye, turn inwards upon it, so as to cause constant irrita- tion. Attempts have been made to remedy this, by pulling out the cilia, cauterizing their roots, and cutting away their secreting bulbs, or even the whole edge of the eyelid ; but all these means are very ineffectual, and, at the best, afford only a temporary relief. The only method of curing the disease is to ti'eat it like entropium ; and, by effecting a very decided eversion of the ciliary margin, prevent the eyelashes, though still possessing their improper direction, from touching the surface of the ball. Ectropium in an opposite condition, chiefly affecting the lower eyelid. In this case the edge is turned outwards, exposing the lining membrane to external irritation, presenting an un- seemly appearance, and allowing the tears to run over the cheeks. The causes of this eversion are thickening or excrescence of the inner surface, relaxation of the orbicular muscle, and the con- traction occasioned by the healing of sores in the integuments. The treatment must of course be varied according to these different circumstances. If the disease depends merely upon a thickened state of mucous lining of the eyelid, touching it occa-