402 PRINCIPLES OF SUKGEKY. their complaint. It is extremely diflficult to account for the origin of these concretions, farther than has been already done, though there are doubtless some important causes in operation, which liitherto have not been ascertained. Calculous diseases are much more common in same districts of country than others, and all that we know in regard to the difference of these is, that where the strongest predisposition has been observed, the mineral strata of the neighbourhood were of a calcareous nature. The . formation of renal nuclei takes place most frequently ■ before puberty, and after the age of fifty; but no time of life is alto- gether exempt from it. There is no temperament or variety of original constitution that seems particularly favourable to the occurrence of the disease, but there is occasionally observed some evidence of the predisposition being hereditary. Gout and stone are often connected, but they probably are so from owing their oiigin to the same source, viz., derangement of the digestive organs. The symptoms of a calculus in the kidney are an almost iconstant feeling of uneasiness in the loins, aggravated by rou^h motion, and soothed by rest; the discharge of small fibrinous clots with the lirine after fits of irritation, and during their con- tinuance, tenderness of the loins, nausea or vomiting, and frequent desire to make water, which is sometimes attended with pain at the point of the penis. If, while there are such symptoms, the bladder should be examined, and found to contain, no calculus, ; there will be strong ground of suspicion that one exists in the ; kidney; but there can hardly be any certainty acquired on the I subject, as different morbid states, not only of the kidney, but f also of other parts of the urinary apparatus, produce nearly, if not altogether, the same indications. The object of treatment in this case is to promote the descent of the calculus into the bladder, with which view the patient should take exercise, and drink largely of diluent fluids. Advan- tage seems sometimes derived from conjoining the latter with a small quantity of spirits, such as Hollands, or with the tincture of cantharides; but caution must be observed in doing so, lest