502 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEKY. form, and protrudiag more or less beyond the eyelids. It depends on expansion, together with thickening of the tissue concerned, which sometimes partially retains its translucency, but more frequently loses it entirely. The surface displays arborescent vessels, conveying red blood, and, ia cases where the tumom- is large, acqrdres a cuticular covering. The eye is rendered totally useless as an organ of vision; and the patient is apt to suffer occasionally from attacks of inflammation, which are induced by the exposed state of the organ to external irritation. The disease generally occurs as a consequence of inflammation of the puru- lent kind, but is sometimes brought on by violence. It almost always commences during infancy or childhood ; and after attain- ing a certain extent does not tend to increase. The treatment is either palliative or radical; the former consisting in the use of means calculated to aUay the symptoms of temporary ii-rita- tion ; the latter in cutting away the whole of the projection from within a line of the sclerotic, which is easily done by pushing a sharp-pointed knite through it, and then cutting transversely so as to complete the division, fii'st of one half, and then of the other, while the flap is held so as to steady the part under the knife. After this operation, the humours of the eyeball are more or less completely discharged, and the collapsed coats occasion no further trouble, or may even be made the support of an arti- ficial eye to conceal the defect. The best application during this process is a poultice, and if the inflammation runs too high, it must, of course, be controlled by appropriate measures. Infiammation of the Sclerotic. The fibrous tissue of the eye is apt to inflame in persons who are subject to rheumatism, or who have had thek constitutions impaired by the prejudicial influence of mercury, administered for the cure of venereal diseases. The attack is induced by the ordinary exciting causes of ophthahny, especially exposure to cold. It is characterised by redness of the eyeball, attended with less swelling, and apparently more deeply seated, than when the conjunctiva is the part aff'ected. The distended vessels form