186 BONES. rotation of the foot outwards, owing to the weight of the limb. The only cases in wliich I have found the lower end anterior to the upper one, happened from direct violence. As the thigh is covered before as well as behind with muscles, which extend beyond both the joints at its extremities, and are nearly equal in strength, it is obvious that no position can have the effect, as in the leg, of relaxing them on one side without stretching them on the other. Various mechanical contrivances, therefore, have been invented for permanently extending the limb, of which the long splint of Desault far surpasses all the others in simplicity and efi&ciency. It is merely a board about four inches in breadth, long enough to extend from the 'false ribs a few inches beyond the sole of the foot, and having at each end two holes for the attachment of bandages. The patient's bed having been prepared, by being rendered smooth and fii'm, his hmb is extended imtil it corresponds in length and direction with the sound one ; then a pasteboard splint, properly softened and padded, is applied on the inner side of the thigh, extending from the perineum to beyond the knee, and another on the outer side, reaching from the trochanter major as far down as the former. These splints being secured by four or five looped bandages, the board, wrapped in a sheet or tablecloth, of which enough should be left to sur- roimd the thigh, is placed alongside the limb, and a handker- chief passed under the perineum is tied to its upper end, wliile the foot is secured to the lower one. The imfolded part of the ' .wrapper which lies under the limb is then brought over, and fastened to the splint, a handkerchief at the same time being tied round the patient's body to prevent any lateral displacement of the apparatus. I have long been satisfied that the long splint proves useful not by effecting extension, but simply by preventmg motion hi all the joints of the limb. For it is well known that perfect quiet . can be obtained only in this way, and also that putting a muscle on the stretch would be the most certain means of exciting its contractile tendency. If the fractured surfaces are placed in proper position, and supported by lateral splints, nothing more