3 INFLAMMATION. merly so much noticed, is really the most important of the whole ; that is, perversion of the vital action in the part affected, which is truly essential, and never-faUing,—^while the other symptoms are extremely variable in their degree, and not even constant in their existence. Inflammation may therefore be defined as a perverted action of the capillary system, generally attended with heat, redness, and swelling. Redness.—This symptom is owing to distension of the vessels which convey blood; to blood being admitted into those which usually appear to receive only the colourless part of it, whether this be owing to the red globules not entering at- all, or only so few at a time as to conceal their colour, since it is only when ex- isting in considerable assemblages that they appear red; and also to bloody effusion into the iaterstices of the structure con- cerned. Inflammation ,of the conjunctiva affords one of the best examples of these changes. The redness varies considerably in shade. It is generally bright and florid, like that of arterial blood, but it often has a yeUow hue, and still more J&equently is dark, or almost purple. The yellow tinge is most fi-equently observed along with derange- ment of the biliary secretion, as in erysipelas; but the dark colour depends on different circumstances, the discrimination of which is of great importance in practice. It was formerly thought a certaiu indication of putrid tendency, or proneness to die from weakness, and an unquestionable call for administering wine, bark, and cordials. It is now observed to depend fre- quently on obstruction of the respiratory function, preventing the blood .from undergoing its proper change. It is seen also when the venous circulation of an inflamed part is impeded. Swelling.—^This symptom depends partly on the enlargement of the vessels, but chiefly on effusion of the serous or albuminous parts of the blood, or the blood itself, into the cellular texture. It consequently varies with the vascularity and laxity of the tissue concerned. Thus inflammation of the conjunctiva is attended with gi'eat swelling, while that of the cornea is accom- panied by hardly any.