MUSCLES. 2V5 tlie sectiou. A sudden snap, or absence of previous tension, distinctly denotes when this has been effected. A piece of dry lint is then to be appKed on the puncture ; and to insure healing of the wound it is prudent to afford the support of a pretty long bandage with the view of preventing motion. At the end of two or three days the foot may be placed in the boot provided for it. The best apparatus of this kind is merely a strong boot made of bend leather—moulded into the requisite form while moist—ar.d may be employed with great advantage as a substitute for the more complicated machines in common use. As to the selection of tendons for division, the circnmstances of the case must of course be the guide. In varus the tendo Achillis, tibialis antims or posticus, and in valgus the peronei, are most frequently in fault. But in talipes or pes equinus, nothing more is required than division of the tendo Achillis. Indeed, favourable cases of the last-mentioned kind are remedied almost at once by this operation, without the assistance of any mecha- nical means; since the action of standing or walking is of itself sufficient for restoring the limb to its proper shape,'so soon as the opposing muscular contraction is removed. In one remark- able case, where both feet were affected, the patient, a young man who was about to sail for Australia, walked without any assist- ance, before the end of a week after I had divided the tendons. Wry-Neck. The sterno-mastoid muscle occasionally becomes contracted, and causes a very awkward distoiiiion, the head being drawn to- wards the clavicle on the side affected, while the face is turned in the opposite direction ; and unless relief be soon afforded, the trunk is apt to suffer a degree of lateral curvature, from the want of due balance at its upper extremity. Attempts to remedy this deformity, by division of the muscle, were made at an early period; but being effected by free incision of the integuments, proved severe in their execution, and unsatisfactory in their results. In 1831,1 thought of performing the operation in the way of subcutaneous incision, by means of a knife so nanw-