357 ABDOMEN. aperture, or passage for the vessels of the foetus, the thin skiu which is formed after the separation of the cord being distended by the sac of peritoneum. Such an occurrence can take place only within a short period after birth, since the runbilical open- ing subsequently becomes obliterated, and occupied by a firm imyielding cicatrix. Hernia occasionally appears in the adult near the umbilicus; but then it is always situated in a preter- natural aperture, and is said to be Ventral. True umbilical hernia in the adult is always congenital In the treatment of this species of hernia, it is of great con- sequence that reduction should be effected and maintained while the apertva-e still retains its disposition to become obliterated, so that a radical cure may be effected, and the patient saved from the necessity of wearing a bandage permanently. In children, where there is no maKormation, and merely a relaxation of the umbilical opening, this may in general be easily accomplished, by returning the protruded viscera; then placing a conical- shaped compress, such as a nutmeg enveloped with lint, on the opening through which they passed; and, lastly, affording suffi- cient pressure by applying cross straps of adhesive plaster. This attains the object better than a circular bandage, which neces- sarily compresses the general cavity of the abdomen, and thus, though it counteracts the predisposition by strengthening the parietes, tends to excite the disease. In the slight degree of this. complaint usually met with in infants, which merely pre- sents the appearance of a thimble-lilce protrusion from the imibilicus, it is not necessary to employ any means of treatment, as the parts soon assume a normal state through spontaneous contraction. In adults such simple measures are not sulficient, and more powerful pressure is required. The best apparatus for the purpose consists of two broad circular cushions, one of which is placed on the back, and the other opposite the seat of the hernia, which may be connected by a spring with any requisite degree of force. Additional security for this bandage can be readily obtained, if found necessary, by means of straps passed under the perineum, or brought over the shoulders.