ABDOMEN. 351 insensibly lose themselves when traced by dissection. The vessels are now, properly spealdng, in the thigh, and become covered with the fasda lata, which has an oval aperture in it on their pubal side, immediately below Poupart's ligament, through which the vena sapJmia finds access to the femoral trunk. The fascia lata, at the margin of this aperture, loses itself on the sheath of the vessels. On their pubal side it passes up, resting on the pectineus muscle, and becomes continuous with the iliac fascia; and on the iliac side, while uniting directly with the abdominal and pelvic fascia, it sends a falciform process inwards over the vessels to the pubis, so as thus to enter into the formation of the crural arch throughout its whole extent. It thus appears that the femoral is separated from the . inguinal canal merely by the fascia transverscdis and reflected margin of the tendinous fascia (tendon of the external oblique). "When the viscera protrude through the space between the vessels and crescentic margin of the crural arch, they constitute what is called a Femoral Hernia. The sac in this case is covered by no fascia, properly speaking, having superjacent to it merely the loose cellular substance which occupied the passage, and the thick mass of cellular substance, glands, and fat, which lies in the triangular hollow at the upper part of the thigh between the pectineus and sartorius muscles. This irregularly laminated and tough tissue, when stretched by the tumour, often presents, on dissection, the appearance of layers, but these are very variable in number, as well as thickness, and cannot be distinguished in an operation. The fasciae, therefore, are interesting in regard to femoral hernia, merely in so far as they constitute the stricture that opposes the reduction of the bowels. The causes of femoral, like those of inguinal hernia, are pre- flisposing and exciting. The predisposition to femoral hernia is nearly as much greater in the female as that to inguinal hernia is in the male, owing to the breadth of the pelvis in the former sex, and the consequent width of the female apertures. The exciting circumstances are similar to those that have been men- tioned, but are apt to be assisted in their operation by the dis-