ABDOMEN. 353 larged glands also occasionally exist along with a hernia, and render its diagnosis by examination extremely difficult, or even sometimes impracticable. In all cases of doubt, when other means fail in affording relief, it is the duty of the surgeon to cut down upon the swelling, and ascertain its nature. The symptoms of femoral are the same as those of inguinal hernia. But it is observed, that the bad consequences of strangulation are particu- larly severe and rapid in their progress, which is no doubt to be ascribed to the small size of the protruded portion of intestine, and the extreme tightness of the stricture. The treatment of femoral hernia is to be conducted on the same principles which have been fully explained above. If it is reducible, a truss should be carefully worn ; and it is here even more necessary than in obviating the predisposition to inguinal rupture to fit the bandage properly. The cushion should be more convex, and it may be requisite to prevent its displacement upwards by an additional strap passing round the thigh. "VSHien incarcerated, it should be subjected to the measures that favour reduction ; and if it resists, must be prevented as much as possible from increasing by the compression of a suspensory bag. It may be observed, that femoral hernia is rarely met with in this state. Lastly, in case of strangulation, the taxis, together with its subsidiary means, if necessary, must be had recourse to without delay, so that no time may be lost in dividing the stricture, if this should prove the only resource. In performing the operation it is generally better, on account of the smallness of the tumour, and thickness of the superjacent parts, to make, instead of a simple incision, one of the figure of the letter T. The transverse part of it should be as high as the neck of the swelling, that is, close to Poupart's ligament, and is most readdy effected by lifting up a fold of the skin, together with as much as possible of the parts below that can be sepa- rated from the sac, and running a knife through it with the back turned towards the sac. The surgeon may then cut safely from the centre of this incision downwards, to the same depth with it. He next lays aside tlie two small flaps thus formed, 2a'