BONES. 209 stance, the ends of tlie bone being merely produced towards each other in a conical form, and connected together by a tough liga- mentous texture. Sir A. Cooper has given representations of the results he met with; and I have met with others precisely similar. " Some of those pathologists who deny the ossific power of the periosteum, and claim the whole production of new osseous sub- stance for the bone itself, have attempted to explain away the difficulties which have just been stated, by supposing that, in cases of necrosis where a new bone is formed, the old one, in consequence of the increased action preceding its death, may de- termine the effusion of organizable matter into the surrounding soft textures, which will serve as a matrix or foundation for the new shell, and be ready to take up the ossifying process so soon as it is communicated from the surviving extremities of the bone. That the process of reproduction may be accomplished in this way I am not prepared to deny, but that it is not necessarily, or always so performed, will, I think, appear from the following case :— " A girl, twelve years of age, strained her ankle in the month of March 1835. Inflammation followed, extending up to the knee, and attended with violent fever. She was brought to the hospital, and placed under my care. Incisions were soon after- wards made to evacuate a large collection of matter which had formed in the leg; and the bone being found dead, while the patient's strength was rapidly giving way, I amputated the limb above the knee five weeks after the injury had been received. The girl recovered, and is now well. In examining the limb to ascertain the extent to which the bone had died, I found that it Avas partially surrounded by the commencement of a new one. The shell had already acquired considerable firmness at some parts, but was not equally thick throughout, and did not seem fixed to the ends of the old shaft. Tliis observation led to a very careful dissection of the parts concerned; and they are now before the Society. It will be seen that the tibia had died very nearly from end to end, and that the new shell enclosing p