ABDOMEN. 335 the cord, or protrudes directly through the external ring. In the former case it is named Inguinal or External Inguinal,_and__£^;<^ in the latter Ventro-Inguinal or Internal Ingu^B^L-.-^lYl^^^-'^'^Lil^^ J • ^ the one kind or the other, it may either remain confined in its extent to the groin, or, getting lower down, distend the scrotum or labium. In the first of these situations it is denominated Bubonocele, and in the others Scrotal or Pudendal Hernia, according to cii-cumstances. There is an important modification of inguinal hernia which takes place before the cavity of the hmica vaginalis ceases to communicate with that of tlie abdomen. The neck of this process of the peritoneum usually becomes im- pervious soon after the descent of the testicle, which generally happens about a month before the time of birth. But if the obliteration is delayed longer, or the foetus is subjected sooner than this to the circumstances which induce the formation of hernia, the viscera are apt to descend into the same bag with the testicle, so that the sac is formed by the tunica vaginalis. The merit of detecting this Congenital hernia is usually ascribed to Percival Pott, but unjustly, as Haller first discovered the descent of the testicle and continuity of the tunica vaginalis with the peritoneum, and also suggested the probability of hernia in infants taking place in that way, while Dr. William Hunter first established the truth of this explanation by dissection. There is-another very rare form of inguinal hernia, in which the pro- truded intestine pushes the peritoneum before it into the tunica vaginalis, so that the sac lies within another sac. I have met with this condition only on one occasion, but then in the most perfect form. The contents of inguinal hernia usually consist of a portion of the ileum, with more or less of the omentum. Sometimes the caput caecum descends by a gradual extension of ^ its cellular connections, and in this case the intestine of course is not completely enclosed in a sac. The sigmoid flexure of the colon also may be protruded, and, tliough more apt to descend on the left side, has been found on the right, while there are not wanting instances of the caput ccecum being discovered on the left. The Hernia is named Enterocele,. Epiplocele, or Entero-