PELVIS. 399 surgeon, who, having anointed the fore and middle fingers of his left hand, introduces them gently into the rectum until he feels the posterior confines of the prostate. The trocar, which should be six inches long and curved, is then carried in along the channel formed by the fingers, and when its point has passed beyond the prostate, the handle is depressed, so as to puncture the coats of the rectum and bladder where they are contiguous. The canula should be secured in its place for twenty-four or forty-eight hours, to .prevent the wound from closing before the obstruction that existed in the natural passage has been removed. Urinary Calculi. The bladder and other parts of the urinary passage frequently become the seat of concretions, which vary extremely in their number, size, and composition, but almost always occasion very distressing symptoms. The measures which have been devised for their prevention and removal consequently demand much attention; and, in order to understand them, it is necessary to be first acquainted with the origin and mode of formation of the different kinds of calculi. The urine in its healthy state holds a number of saline sub- stances in solution, which it deposits in part on cooling to the ordinary temperature. The quantity of this precipitate varies according to the degree in which the urine is diluted, being most observable after abstinence from drinking or profuse perspira- tion. It generally appears in the form of a light-coloured yellowish cloud, occupying the lower part of the vessel, or in that of a thin crust or lining, which adheres to its sides. When chemically examined, the lighl^coloured muddy-looking sedi- ment is found to consist of alkahne and earthy salts, which are chiefly the phosphate of lime, and the triple phosphate of mag- nesia and ammonia—the lateritious or crusted deposit, on the contrary, consisting of uric acid, or urate of ammonia with an excess of acid. In consequence of a variety of circumstances which will be more particularly considered hereafter, the urine becomes loaded with these matters in quantities, proportions, and