THORAX. 323 ill which the disease has advanced slowly,—feels circumscribed, —is not attended with enlargement of the glands, and exists in a person of tolerably healthy appearance. Should the complaint have been' distinctly the consequence of local irritation, or the patient be of an age at which the predisposition is generally not veiy strong, as above sixty, the prognosis will be still more favourable. In very advanced periods of life, as beyond seventy, the diseased action is so slow, and the chance of troublesome symptoms consequently so small, that the operation would in general not be warranted. In my own practice I decline to operate except in cases of the third class just mentioned, and have no hesitation in advising this limitation of interference with the knife, having seen much mischief and no benefit from operations where the glands were affected, though only in a slight degree. When the operation is to be performed, the patient should be laid in a reclining posture, properly supported, and turned towards the light. The nipple, as being a part likely to take up the diseased action, if it has not already done so, and, for the same reason, the whole of the gland, should always be taken away. For this purpose ;two curved incisions are to be made in the direction of the fibres of the pectoral muscle, including an elliptical portion of the integuments, together with the nipple ; unless the particular circumstances of the case render it more convenient to cut in some other way, so as to remove the whole of the affected integument. In calculating the direction and \ extent of the incisions, the object should be, in the first place, / to include all the skin that is diseased ; and in the second, to ^ leave no more of it than what is sufficient for allowing the edges of the wound to be brought together without straining. The surgeon then exposes the anterior surface of the tumour com- pletely, first separating the lower flap, and then the upper one, while the assistant presses his fingers on the orifices of the divided arteries. In doing this he should proceed carefully and deliberately, so as to cut wide of the confines of the disease, and keeping in mind that the permanency of recovery is a more im-