242 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. ^ Ilip-joint.—Tlie liip-joint, notwithstanding the great strength of all the parts which enter into its formation, is suhjeet to dis- location in four different directions:—1. Upwards and back- wards on the dorsum of the ilium, 2. Backwards into the sacro-ischiatic notch. 3. Downwards into the foramen ovale. And 4. Forwards upon the pubis. In dislocation upon the dorsum of the ilium the limb is shortened from one and a haK to two inches—the affected knee is bent over the sound one—and the foot is turned inwards so that the great toe of it rests on the tarsus of the other. The thigh cannot be moved except slightly inwards—the trochanter major is higher up, and nearer the crest of the ilium than usual —and the head of the bone can sometunes be felt rolling imder the muscles when the limb is moved. This accident happens from falls on the side, and tlie circmn- stance of having a load on the back promotes the dislocation by increasing the strain. It happens most frequently in males, and is seldom met with either in very young or in very old subjects, being in a great measure confined to those in the vigour of life. To effect reduction, the patient should be placed on a mattress upon his back. A folded sheet or tablecloth is then to be passed between the thighs, so as to support the perineum, its ends being either held in the hands of assistants standing bebuid the patient's head as he lies supine, or secured to a rmg in the waU. A skein of worsted, or any other suitable lac, is next fastened round the limb immediately above the knee, and committed to assistants, either trusting to their own strength for extending sufficiently, or aided by pulleys, if the case promise to prove difficult. The points of extension and counter-exteijsion having been thus determined, any degree of obliquity that seems requisite may be easily given to the former by turning round the mattress *a little, until it appears that the Hmb is extended exactly in the line which it has assumed from the dislocation. It is usual to rotate the leg, and at the same time use means for drawing the neck of the thigh-bone outwards so as to lift its head over the edge of the acetabulum; but from my own