20 PRINCIPLES OF SUKGERY. increase the evil, either by making the state of excitement more quickly terminate in sinking, or by increasing the violence of its symptoms. Perfect rest, both of body and mind; cold applica- tions to the head; gentle opiates ; and the gradual operation of time, ought to be trusted to as the means of relief. The discrimination between the symptoms of excessive reaction and those of inflammation, is of the utmost importance in practice; and the following observations as to the circum- stances which modify the effects of hemorrhage are deserving of much attention. In young subjects, that is to say, children and infants, the power of reaction is feeble, and the risk of siiiking consequently great; but if the immediate danger be surmounted, recovery is accomplished quickly and perfectly. In adults who are weak from age or any other cause, there is also small power of reaction; but their danger of sinking is not merely in the first instance, and continues for a much longer time afterwards, as the restoration to health is slow and im- perfect. In the healthy and robust individual there is always exces- sive reaction, unless the bleeding be so small as not to affect the system sufficiently, or so profuse as to cause sinking or death in the first instance. Pain, fear, and the exhaustion produced by protracted fever or the discharge of matter, increase the risk of sinking. Local Bleeding.—Blood may be abstracted locally by scarify- ing, leeching, and cupping. The fii'st method can be employed only when the j)art in- flamed is superficial, or when the skin and subjacent cellular texture are affected. In which cases incisions are often useful, not only by allowing blood to escape, but by relieving tension. Leeches should be dried before they are used, and the part to which they are applied ought to be carefully washed with warm water. When they are wished to fasten at a particular point, they should be enclosed in a small cone of paper or linen, which allows merely the head to project. After they fall off, the