GENITAL ORGANS. 443 Diseases of the Testicle. Inflammation, or Hernia Humoralis. The Testicle is excited to .inflame by a variety of circum- stances, of "wMch the most important, in respect to their fre- quency, are bruises, woimds, gonorrhoeal inflammation, either spreading back along the continuous surface between the urethra and testicle, or suddenly suffering a metastasis to the latter situa- tion, and the irritation proceeding from.strictures, or the means employed to cure them. The symptoms are pain, hardness, and swelling, with more or less redness ; and in acute cases, there is not only feverish disturbance of the system, but also, sickness, vomitiQg, and constipation, similar to those attending strangu- lated hernia, in consequence of the testicle being connected, in its sympathies, with the viscera' of the abdomen. When the inflam- mation is intense, it may prove fatal; but, in general, it is merely productive of temporary distress, and exposes the patient to the risk of serous effusion, chronic enlargement, and altera- tion of structure, which are frequently its consequences. The most violent cases met with are those caused by wounds of the gland; and such injuries are, therefore, regarded as dangeroiis, particularly in irritable constitutions. • The treatment of inflamed testicle must be regulated by the circumstances of the case. If there is redness of the skin, and other indications of acute action, blood should be abstracted locally, either by applying leeches or by opening some of the veins of the scrotum with a lancet. If the latter mode is chosen, the patient should stand erect while the veins are punctured, and as long as it is desired that the blood should flow. Warm fomentations applied to the scrotum, emollient injections thrown into the rectum, occasional doses of castor-oil, and a strict anti- phlogistic regimen, are the other means of most use, and, when the symptoms are very severe, should aU be administered, to- gether with opiates, to allay the tendency to excessive action. In mild cases it is generally sufficient to evacuate the bowels