4G9 BEAIN. length, from hours to weeks, or even months; but generally terminates in the course of a few days at farthest, either in a return to health, or in inflammation. Effusion of blood may take place between the skull and dura mater, on the surface of the brain, and into its substance. In all of these situations it depends on rupture of the vessels from concussion; and, there- fore, the symptoms of that kind of injury are at first generally associated with those of compression. As the symptoms of con- cussion, however, always go off soon, unless the brain has been lacerated, it may be concluded, if the patient remains insensible beyond an hour or two, that there is either an effusion of blood, or rupture of the cerebral substance. The latter case may be, in general, distinguished by the more complete insensibility, and other indications of suspended function which attend it, and by the early appearance of inflammatory symptoms. It seems that the effusion does not always occur immediately after i the injury is sustained, but sometimes takes place gxadually, so that there may be either no insensibility observable for a short period after the blow is inflicted, or an interval between the in- sensibility caused by concussion and that resulting from com- pression. In this case there can be no doubt as to compression being the cause of the symptoms. The quantity of blood effused is seldom gi'eat, but may amount to several ounces. Between the skull and dura mater it usually takes the form of a cake, of Hmited extent; on the surface of the brain it constitutes a thin crust or lining, widely spread over it; and in the substance of the organ it is generally coagulated at the centre of the injured part, and diffused, in the form of ecchymosed spots, into the neighbourhood. The largest accumulations of blood are met with between the dura mater and the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone, where it seems to be effused from the menin- geal artery. The extravasation, in general, takes place either immediately under the part subjected to violence, or on the side of the head ojjposite to it. Depression of the cranium happens more readily in young than in old subjects ; but produces less inconvenience in the