PRINCIPLES OF SURGEEY. 24 Narcotics.—These are medicines wliicli, witliout causing any real diminution in the power of the system, produce a temporary indisposition for action. Of these the most useful are opium, tobacco, hyoscyamus, and belladonna. Astringents.—These are remedies somewhat similar in effect to those last mentioned. Cold, acetate of lead, and nitrate of silver, are the best means of this kind. Cold is more efi&cient in j)reventing than curiug inflammation. It is of no use unless it can be applied either to the part affected or in its immediate neighbourhood ; and then only when the diseased action pro- ceeds fiom direct irritation. The acetate of lead is used exter- nally in solution, eitlier alone or along with opium, in the pro- portion of three or four grains of each to the ounce. It is generally applied warm, and has great effect in allaying inflam- mation depending on imdue irritability. Pressure.—When the part or system is disposed to overact by the weakness of its power, especially when it is attended with •cedematous swelling, pressure may often be exercised advan- tageously by bandaging. Countcr-irntanis.—The means of removing inflammation which are included under this title act on the principle of metastasis, and excite irritation of various degrees as to intensity and duration. The most gentle in their effect are named rube- facients, of which may be mentioned mustard, oil of turpentine, ammonia, gum ammoniac, camphor, and some of the mineral acids. Blisters or vesicatories are applications which, as the name implies, occasion blisters of the skin or elevations of the cuticle, by fluid diffused under it in consequence of their irrita- tion. The plaster of cantharides is most frequently employed for this purpose ; but, when the effect is wished to be strong and immediate, recourse may be had to boiling water, or the concentrated mineral acids. The nitrate of silver is occasionally preferred for the purpose, being rubbed on the part after it has been moistened with water. So soon as the blisters caused in either of these ways have risen, they ought to be cut, so as to allow the serous fluid they