333 ABDOMEN. Ingidnal Hernia. The vessels of tlie testicle in the male, and the round liga- ment in the female, proceed through the parietes of the abdomen in an oblique passage about two inches and a haK long. This passage, which is named the inguinal canal, being formed through the fascire and muscles that constitute the abdominal parietes in the hypogastric region, the connections of which have been variously described, and are still differently regarded, it seems necessary to enter into some anatomical details on the subject. Before doing so, it may be proper to observe that the part of the abdomen to be particularly considered at present is that which lies below a line drawn transversely between the anterior spinous processes of the ilium. Under the integuments and subcutaneous adipose tissue there is here an expansion of condensed cellular substance, con- stituting a membranous fascia, named fascia superficialis, not very thick, but comparatively strong, and always very distinct. Beneath this lies a strong tendinous expansion usually named the tendon of the oUiqum externus; but which, instead of being regarded as subordinate to one particular muscle, ought rather to be considered an independent fibrous structure, like the fascia luraborum, or the fascia lata of the thigh, since many other muscles are attached to it besides the external oblique. Much confusion would thus be avoided; and it might be called the tendinous fascia of the abdomen. "Within this the recti muscles occupy the space on each side of the mesial plane, as far as a line running parallel with it upwards from the tuberosity of the pubis. The internal oblique and transverse muscles cover the remainder of the region under consideration, except a small tri- angular portion of it near the pubis. On the inner side of this muscular layer, there is a fascia, which was first noticed and described by Sir A. Cooper. It is very thin, except at the lower part, and has been named the fascia iransvcrsalis; the peri- toneum comes next, and completes the formation of the abdo- minal parietes. The three fascite that have been mentioned are