DISEASED NUTEITION. 73 not forbid it. Some attempts have been made to arrest the morbid nutritive action, or cause sloughing of the mass proceed- ing from it, by tying one or more of the nutrient arteries ; but experience on this subject has hitherto been very limited and unsatisfactory. ^ Under the head of Simple Sarcoma may be arranged the ex- crescences named Wart, and Polypus. The former is a growth from the skin, the latter from the mucous membranes.^ In both, the natural textures appear to be rather preternaturally extended, with more or less softening and relaxation of the structure, than subjected to any degeneration or morbid alteration of composition. Warts are met with most frequently on the hands, and on the thin skin which surrounds the outlets of the body—as the eye- Kds, lips, and prepuce. It must be here remarked, however, that most of the excrescences on the face, which are usually designated warts, really possess an entirely different nature, being altogether new formations which have nothing in common with the growth under consideration, except some resemblance of form, and require to be carefully distinguished, since the treatment which is proper for the one sort proves most injurious when applied to the other. Warts admit of removal by the action of stimulants, such as strong acetic acid, or the concentrated solution of sulphate of cop- per ; also by caustic, the ligature, and the knife or scissors. The first and last mentioned means are the best for the purpose—the former being emj)loyed when the growth possesses a soft con- sistence and broad base, the latter when it is firm and prominent. Polypus is a growth of softer consistence, but varies con- siderably in this respect according to the part from which it proceeds. The lining membranes of the nose and uterus are its most frequent seat; and next to them the rectum may be mentioned. It has usually a gTayish-yellow colour, and possesses little vascularity, with still less sensibility. The inconvenience caused by its presence is chiefly of a mechanical nature, but nevertheless often sufficiently distressing. The treatment is either palliative or radical—the former con- sisting in the use of astringent applications, and the latter in