14 PRINCIPLES OF SUliGERY. 6. General disturbance or fever, however induced, is apt to terminate in some local affection. Most people have what may be called their M'eak part, which gives way on such occasions, and in many acts like a safety- valve, by protecting organs of more importance; as when sore throat, herpetic eruptions of the ears, or erysipelas, is apt to re- sult from constitutional disturbance. This proneness to parti- cular local diseases may be either congenital or the result of habit. In the former case it leads to what is called hereditary disease, of which gout may be mentioned as an example. Treatment of Inflammation. The great object in treating inflammation is to make it ter- minate in Eesolution,—that is, to subside and disappear without leaving any change in the structure or actions of the part. The most obvious step in the first instance with this view is removal of the cause which excited the disease, should it still continue in operation. When the cause is direct, this can sometimes be accomplished speedily and perfectly, as when a foreign body occasions disturbance by its presence. Bub when it is of an in- direct kind, such as the suppression of some natural secretion or discharge, from the mucous membrane or uterus for instance, the process for removing it is generally more difiicult, reqiiii'ing the careful administration of medicine and strict attention to regi- men. When the cause cannot be remedied at once, or when the inflammation continues after its cause has .ceased to operate, which is generally the case, the morbid action requires the use of means for its suppression. The symptoms of inflammation naturally suggest the abstrac- tion of blood,—and this until lately has accordingly always been regarded as its great antidote, though much less often really re- quired than was formerly believed. Blood may be withdrawn locally, from the inflamed part or its neighbourhood, and gene- rally, from the larger veins or smaller arteries. The veins are almost always preferred for this purpose, from being more super- ficial than the arteries, whence they are more easily opened, and