PRINCIPLES OF SUKCrERY. 40 Lymph, like serum, is effused into tlie cellular interstices also, but in this case is not confined to the subcutaneous texture, and occurs with equal readiness in the constituent as in the connect- ing cellular substance of organs. If time be afforded, it becomes organized, so as to cause thickening and hardening of the part concerned. This effusion may occur as a consequence of inflammation, but much more frequently takes its rise from the immediate effect of local irritation, such as that produced by the passage of fluids through preternatural channels, or by the lodgment of foreign matters within the substance of the body, as when the urine escapes by a fistula in perinceo, or a bullet lies where it cannot be extracted. The result in these cases is thickening of the surrounding parts, or the formation of a capsule. This process is generally rather beneficial than injurious, as it limits the influence of the irritation, and prevents it from exciting a more violent or injurious action. Its effects generally disappear so soon as the cause that led to them is removed ; if they do not, the same means which promote the dispersion of oedema are re- qiiired—namely, pressure, with blistering, and stimulating oint- ments. Ljmiph is also effased on the surfaces of wounds, and some- times unites them, so as to remedy at once the solution of con- tinuity. This process is named Union by the first Intention. The steps by which it is accomplished, and the circumstances that oppose and favour its completion, are extremely important. Every wound is attended with more or less bleeding ; and as it gradually ceases, an exudation of serum takes place, which is readily recognised by the faint-coloured stain it makes on the dressings. Trom eight to twelve hours after the wound is in- flicted, less or more according to its extent, this discharge ceases, when lymph is effused from the cut surfaces, and if they are in contact, or nearly so, glues them together—becoming gradually organized, and completing the union from forty-eight to seventy- two hours after the injury has been sustained. The union, though now perfect, so far as regards appearance and feehng,