541 HOSE. stance has been recently introduced, the process of removal should be performed in the same manner. EjpistcLxis, or Bleeding from the Nose. Hemorrhage from the nose frequently takes place, either commencing spontaneously, or being induced by the injury attending operations in which the parietes of the cavity are concerned. Spontaneous bleeding is generally suppressed by applying cold to the forehead, or introducing a piece of lint, moistened with spirits or some astringent saline solution, into the nostrils. The same means usually prove sufficient when mechanical violence has been the exciting cause. But, in both cases, it occasionally happens that more efficient measures are required ; the blood, though prevented from flowing through the anterior openings of the nose, being observed to trickle down into the throat. It is then necessary to close the posterior nares '-^ also, by introducing a piece of lint. This may be done in various ways, and instruments have been contrived for the pur- pose ; but the most convenient method is to pass a probe, curved to the form of the palate, through the nose into the pharynx, and then draw it out of the mouth, conveying by its means a piece of strong ligature, about a foot and a half in length. A compress of lint, large enough to obstruct the pos- terior opening of the nostril, is next tied securely to the middle of the thread which issues from the mouth. The other end being pulled, this plug is drawn backwards, and, with the assist- ance of the operator's left fore-finger, is lodged behind the soft palate, at the nasal orifice. The two ends of the thread are then secured; and when it is judged safe to remove the plug, the thread that lies in the mouth affords the ready means of doing so. Polypus of the Nose. Tumours of several different kinds are met with in the nasal cavities ; and though comprehended under the general denomi- nation of polypus, must be carefully discriminated in regard to their prognosis and treatment. The most common of these