369 PELVIS. Hemorrhoids. By Hemorrlioids, or Piles, are understood tumours of different kinds which are met with at the verge of the anus, either without or within the sphincter,—in the former of which cases they are said to be external, and in the latter internal. They sometimes depend on a varicose condition of the hemorrhoidal veins, which form round, tense, dark-coloured swellings,—but they more fre- quently consist of a morbid growth of the skin or mucous mem- brane, and subjacent cellular tissue. When external, they are of a round or flattened form, and except when suffering from in- flammation, possess the natural appearance and consistence of the part. When internal, they are very vascular, generally of a florid colour, and uneven on the surface like a strawberry. Ex- ternal hemorrhoids occasionlittle inconvenience,unless irritated or inflamed, when they become much enlarged, round, tense, and extremely painful, especially if subjected to pressure. But those of the internal kind are productive of more continued distress, by protruding from slight exertions, bleeding at stool, or exciting- sympathetic uneasiness in the urinary organs. These symptoms are not always equally severe, but, while hardly ever absent alto- gether, are apt to suffer occasional exacerbations, in consequence of general or local irritation. They exist sometimes together, sometimes separately, and one patient may complain merely of protrusion of the bowel, or bleeding from it, while another refers his sufferings entirely to the bladder. The disease is often not detected until an examination is made by the surgeon, and this therefore should always be done when the symptoms are at all suspicioiis. The circumstances that chiefly tend to produce, and also aggra- vate, hemon-hoidal excrescences, are excitement of the digestive and generative organs, constipation, sedentary occupations, preg- nancy, and exposure to cold or wet, which, by deranging tlie actions of the system, is apt to excite local inflammation, especially in parts having already a morbid disposition. It follows that the most effectual means of preventing the disease consist in 2 B