220 I'lUNCIPLES OF SUEGERY. springing apparently from the medullary membrane, and then expands the bone into a sheU, or, by inducing absorption, causes a perforation, through which it issues and swells into an external tumour ; or it opens out the bone into needles or plate-like pro- cesses radiating from the central seat of the disease; or lastly, it may simply occupy the place of the bone. But, whatever may be the diversity in this respect, the morbid degeneration always exhibits its characteristic features. There is usually great pain from the first, and often for a long while, before any external swelling is visible. The patient loses flesh, and indicates, by his anxious expression of countenance, the presence of a malignant disease. The tumour, though at first seldom so soft as when originating in the less dense tissues of the body, in its progress becomes softened, and acquires, at least in some parts of its extent, a consistence so nearly approaching that of a fluid, as to render the discrimination from it, extremely difficult. Then the veins enlarge—the integuments inflame—ulceration ensues— fungous excrescences protrude—and the patient sinks under the exhaustion which results from profuse discharge of ill-condi- tioned matter or blood. The disease makes its attack at every time of life, and in both sexes; but seems, on the whole, most frequent between twenty and forty years of age. The only remedy is amputation; and unless this be performed early, before the constitution of the patient is much injured, and freely, so as to remove the whole of the affected bone, it will in all probability prove of little permanent benefit. Cystic Tumour of Bone. The bones sometimes, but very rarely, with exception of the upper and lower jaw, become the seat of cystic formations. The swelling is generally not attended with much pain, and at its commencement may be mistaken for a solid exostosis or cartila- ginous growth; but as the cysts enlarge and approach the surface, the thinness of their parietes betrays the nature of the case. This disease occurs most frequently in the earlier periods of adult age. So long as it retains the characters