PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 271 forms, was limited to the employment of various apparatus with the view of counteractiag the muscles by mechanical force, and gradually elongating them so as to remedy the distortion. This process was excessively tedious, expensive, and too frequently, with every care, imperfect in its effect. Hence the number of adults to be seen everywhere, especially in the lower ranks of life, retaining the bones of their limbs in a perverted position, untU, becoming altered in their form, they constitute supports for the body of very defective utiUty, and no less unseemly appearance. A great improvement has been introduced into practice by surgeons of the present age, particularly Stromeyer and Dieffen- bach. It consists in dividing the tendons of the contracted muscles by subcutaneous incision, and thus at once removing the grand obstacle in the way of treatment, which, when this has been done, merely requii-es such a degree of mechanical sup- port as may compensate for the state of contraction and relax- ation in which the ligaments necessarily remain for a time. The sooner the operation for this purpose is performed the better ; but it may be undertaken without impropriety so long as the bones have not suffered such an alteration of form as must render them unfit for assuming their natural position. This is more especially the case in simple extension of the foot (pes equinus, or pointed toe), which may be remedied in appa- rently the most confirmed degree, provided the astragalus is not displaced so very far forwards that it does not admit of being returned into its proper position. In dividing the tendons, instruments of various shapes and sizes have been employed. The knife should have a very small and narrow blade, with blunt back. An assistant should hold the foot so as to stretch moderately the tendons about to be cut, and then the operator, pinching up the integuments lying over it with the thumb and fore-fmger of his left hand, introduces the knife with its flat edge between the skin thus elevated and the tendon. The integuments being now left free, the cutting edge is directed upon the tendon, and by a slight sawing motion, aided with pressure on the back of the blade, readily completes