PKINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. 364 tory of the sacrum to the iiitroductiou of a bougie. The diffi- culty of obtaining satisfactory evidence as to the existence of stricture in these situations is the less to be regretted, as it is almost always seated witliin reach of the finger, which cannot be deceived; and if beyond this extent, may be deemed quite irre- mediable. Unless the patient be relieved, general emaciation is gradually induced by the continual distress and derangement of the intestinal functions. Hectic irritation follows, and death may be the ultimate effect, either from gradual exliaustion or from inflammation of the bowels. The progress of the disease is usually very slow, and years may elapse before the symptoms are sufficiently severe to excite attention, their insidious approach rendering the patient unaware of their presence, even when dis- tinctly marked. In carcinomatous contraction of the rectum, the patient suffers the symptoms which have been described, and also those attendant upon that kind of morbid degeneration, viz., lancinatuig pains, not constant but severe, an almost cartilaginous- hardness of the rectum, wliich is felt if the finger be introduced to the diseased part, and frequently extends to the skin surround- ing the anus; also, when the disease has advanced to the ulcer- ated stage, a fetid sanious discharge from the anus, together with involuntary evacuation of thin feculent matters. In females, a commimication with the vagina is often established, and allows the contents of the bowel to escape by it. The appearance of the patient further characterises the nature of the case, being thin and cachectic-looking, and exhibiting the greenish-yellow com- plexion usually observed in persons labouring mider malignant disease. In treating simple stricture of the rectum, if it should appear that the contraction depends on congenital malformation, which, it is important to know, sometimes escapes observation mitil an advanced period of life, the best course is to divide tlie constric- tion freely with a knife, and afterwards interpose dressing suffi- cient to prevent immediate closure of the wound or its subsequent contraction. But if the stricture be the result of diseased action in the coats of the gut, which has caused thickening and indura-