SKIN, 491 Kegular exercise, and an alterative course of mercury, with the saline cathartics, or some mineral water of this kind, are then to be prescribed. In the treatment of scaly eruptions great benefit is derived from the use of corrosive sublimate and Fowler's solu- tion of arsenic ; and from the combinations of iodine with mer- cury and arsenic. Of local means, the one most generally useful is frequent ablution with warm water and soap. Water impreg- nated with sulphur, such as that existing naturally at Harrowgate and elsewhere, or prepared artificially by dissolving a small pro- portion of sulphate of potass with sulphur, usually proves more beneficial. If there are any hairs at the part, they ought to be removed, as their presence is not only a constant source of irri- tation, but prevents the measures for cleansing it from being employed efficiently. Of medicinal applications, the best are lotions containing the acetate of lead and sulphur; the citrine ointment diluted with axunge or linimcntum aquce calcis, in the proportion of one part to four or six; an ointment containing sulphur and axunge in the proportion of one to eight; the ointment of the acetate of lead; a mixtiu'e of the two last mentioned; a solution of the sulphuret of potass, or hydro-sulphuret of ammonia ; and butter- milk. Warty excrescences of the skin are of very frequent occur-. rence, particularly on the face and hands. In the latter situa- tion, they are simple extensions of the natural texture, and prove inconvenient merely from the deformity and awkwardness in using the fingers, occasioned by their presence ; but in the former, they consist of formations altogether foreign to that of the skin, and besides being unseemly, are apt, in the more advanced period of life, to take on malignant action, either in consequence of being irritated, or spontaneously. They generally appear on the hands during the period that intervenes between childhood and puberty, and are seldom met with in adults. They may, if it is desired, be removed at once by the knife, caustic, or ligature, of which means the one first^mentioned is the best; but are in general readily dispersed hy the more gentle