EYE. 519 through the puncta lachrymalia. When the secretion of the tears is excited by mental emotion, or external irritation, such as that caused by a cold wind blowing on the eye, they nm over the cheeks more copiously than in ordinary circumstances, and the patient frequently complains of a disagreeable feeling of dryness in the nostril. The treatment of Epiphora, as this morbid condition of the lachrymal passage has been named, is conducted on different prin- ciples, according to the view that is entertained of its origin and cause. There can be no doubt that a diseased state of the eye- lids, whether regarded as leading directly or indirectly to the obstruction, ought to be remedied, if possible, without delay. It is then proper to introduce small gold or silver probes through the puncta in order to clear the passage. The canal should be slit open (Bowman) to allow the entrance of a larger instrument than could be admitted by the orifice. By gently urging and alternately pushing or withdrawing a little, it is at length intro- duced into the nose. By repeating this operation, and using probes of larger size in succession, relief may be afforded. The introduction of probes from the nose into the duct, though very easy in the dead body, is hardly practicable in the living, espe- cially when the entrance to the passage is obstructed. Injec- • tions thrown in through the puncta, by means of Anel's syringe, are of so little avail that they need not be particularly con- sidered. If the disease prove so obstinate and troixblesome as to make the patient willing to sufi'er the pain and inconvenience attend- ing the following operation, it ought to be performed. The object is to remove the obstruction, and prevent its reproduction. "With this view an incision is made into the lachrymal sac, by pushing a sharp-pointed knife into it, immediately below the ligament that extends from the inner commissure of the eyelids to the nasal process of the maxillary bone. After the point has been fairly introduced into the sac, by pushing it backwards and inwards, the handle must be raised so as to alter the direction of the blade, and push it downwards into the duct. A thick probe