EYE. 503 a zone round the anterior part of the sclerotic about a line in breadth, and to the same extent distant from the cornea. Beyond this, the vessels in proceeding backwards observe a radiating direction, and do not branch out as in the conjunctiva. In chronic cases, the eyebaU, along with more or less of the redness that has been described, assumes a sickly yellow hue. The pain is of a dull acliing kind, extending into the forehead, and gene- rally suffering occasional exacerbations, with alternate remissions. The constitutional disturbance varies with the acuteness of the local symptoms. This inflammation may extend to other tissues of the eye, and produce destructive effects on them; but when confined to the sclerotic coat, it terminates always in resolution, or in a chronic state approacliing to it. When acute, it requires bleeding, leeching, warm fomentations, and purgatives; and when chronic, cupping, followed by blistering on the back of the neck, with small doses of oxymuriate of mercury, Dover's powder, and colchicum, administered internally. Iritis, and its consequences. The Iris is liable to inflammation in consequence of local irritation, and also of indirect causes operating on an unsound constitution. The derangement of the system which seems most favourable to this effect, is that resulting from the abuse of mercury in the treatment of venereal diseases ; but bad health from original constitutional defect, or from an improper mode of life, may occasion a predisposition sufficient for its production, when the exciting circumstances are brought into action. It may also result from the extension of inflammation originating in some other texture, as the conjunctiva or sclerotic coat. The symptoms are severe deep-seated pain of the eye, ex- tending into the forehead, with more or less fever, according to the intensity of the local affection; the iris clianges its colour, usually acquiring a dull brick-red hue in part of its extent; the pupU is generally small, fixed, and irregular; the aqueous humour appears turbid; and there is a distinct red zone formed by the enlarged vessels of the sclerotic, at the distance of about