175 BONES. plaining the symptoms and treatment of fracture, it is necessary to consider separately the two departments of this last division, wliich is of great importance. Simple Fractures. The symptoms of simple fracture are—1. Distortion or change of shape, owing to the broken bone being unable to counteract the displacing tendency of the surrounding muscles and the weight of the limb itself; whence are caused shortening or retraction, the extent of which depends upon the obliquity of the fracture, and rotation, 2. Diminution or total loss of volun- tary motion. 3. Preternatural mobility by external forces. 4. Swelling from the effusion of blood by ruptured vessels, and from the same source the discoloration of ecchymosis appearing some time after the accident. 5. Pain and spasmodic starting of the muscles, owing to the irritation of the sharp extremities of the bone. 6. Crepitus, or a grating sensation when the limb is j > moved, from the rough osseous surfaces rubbing against each other. When the extremities of a broken bone are allowed to remain at rest they unite, together, and if examined by a section after- wards, exhibit a mass of new osseous matter, which serves as their bond of union. The old surgeons believed that this callus, as it was called, residted from an effusion poured out by the surroimding soft parts, in consequence of the irritation of the in- jury, which concreted about the broken bones, and united them together. The great object of treatment, according to this view, was by local pressure, to restrain the effusion from going beyond due bounds. For this purpose short splints, or pieces of wood, pasteboard, or iron, were tightly bandaged to the limb over the injured part. Mr. Pott had the merit of exposing to the surgeons of this country the impropriety of such a practice, and introduc- ing another more scientific as well as practically useful. Mr. Pott attributed exuberance of the callus to imperfect adjustment of the broken bones, which causing irregularity and projection of their extremities, consequently rendered their union