532 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. ■ must be kept in mind, as it would be exposed to injury, if tlie knife were directed outwards, in tbe line of the ear. If it is introduced a little nearer the mesial plane than the wisdom tooth, and pushed directly backwards, there will be no possibility I of wounding the vessel; and it seems safer to proceed on this principle than to confide in the instrument which has been in use for this j)articular purpose, consisting of a lancet blade in- closed in a canula, from which it may be protruded, more or less, by means of a screw at its other extremity. Ulceration of the tonsils is sometimes of an acute, but much more frequently of a chronic nature. Astringent gargles, and attention to the general health, are sufficient for its remedy in ordinary circumstances ; but when obstinate, it must be treated more actively, by touching the surface every day or two with a strong solution of the sulphate of copper, or some other applica- tion powerful enough to change the morbid action. Along with these local measures, an alterative course of medicine and diet is frequently required. Chronic enlargement of the tonsils generally results from one or more attacks of inflammation in childhood, and tends to disappear after the period of puberty. In most cases both of the glands are enlarged, but one, in general, exceeds the other in size. The swelHng is firm in consistence, pale in colour, but often streaked with vessels, and unequal on its ^surface. There is great variety in the extent which the swelling attains, from the slightest perceptible fulness to a magnitude that leaves . hardly any space between the two tumours. The sjTuptoms are —uneasiness in the throat, huskiness of the voice, noisy respira- tion, which is generally performed with the mouth open, and sometimes deafness, from obstruction of the Eustachian tubes. But what usually occasions the patient greatest annoyance, is the frequency of sore throat to which the morbid state of the ^ gland exposes him. The ordinary treatment for sore throat affords some palliation of this disease, but the only effectual remedy of it consists in removing a part of the tumour. Caustic, the cautery, and the