476 PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. warm fomentations and ponltiqes, ought to be employed without delay, while the general treatment of the patient is conducted so as to conduce to the soothing effect desired. Diseases of flie Coverings and Contents of the Cranium. Encysted tumours occur very frequently under the integu- ments of the scalp. They generally consist of a very thick and firm cyst, which contains a mixture of fluid and pultaceous matter. They vary in size from that of a walnut downwards, and unless subjected to pressure or ulcerated, are very loosely connected, so that when a knife is thrust through the integu- ments and cyst in its long direction, the latter may be readily pulled away with the forceps, or turned out with the handle of the laiife. Tumours of this sort are not unfrequently observed to be hereditary. More rarely, cysts of a thinner texture, and containing lardy-looldng matter, generally intermixed withTiairs, are met with in the scalj), chiefly at its lower and back part, near the neck These adhere more firmly, and require to be dissected out. They often attain a very considerable size. The only disease of the contents of the cranium, not depend- ing on external injury, that has ever been subjected to surgical treatment, is Hydrocephalus, or a morbid accumulation of fluid. The fluid is generally enclosed in the ventricles, but sometimes lies exterior to the surface of the brain, which is then usually more or less malformed. The disease is either acute or chronic : in the former case occuiiing suddenly as a consequence of in- flammatory action; and in the latter commencing insidiously without any such antecedent symptoms. Acute Hydrocephalus may take place at any period of life, but is most common in children. The quantity of fluid seldom exceeds an ounce or two, and death is caused probably not more by the pressure of the water than by the destruction of the cerebral substance occasioned by the inflammation which attends the effusion. The chronic form of the disease always commences in cluldhood, and is not unfrequently congenital. The accumulation of fluid slowly" increases, and the bones of the cranium not being united,