75 DISEASED NUTEITION. very properly been named the Adipose, or Fatty Growth. The appearance of its structure is precisely what the title indicates, and bears the closest resemblance to that of the ordinary sub- cutaneous fat. It is generally of a somewhat darker, though sometimes of a lighter yellow colour, and not so granular; it is suiToimded by a thin capsule, which keeps it distinct from the neighboiu'ing parts, imless they happen to be pressed together by the patient's clothes or otherwise, when adhesions occur between them; it is generally of a more irregular form than would be supposed from its appearance while covered by the integuments, and frequently sends out long processes in various directions. The skin covering such tumours is not discoloured, but usually shews some inequalities of surface, corresponding with the lobules of the growth. The adipose sarcoma occurs in every part of the body, and at all periods of life, but is most frequently met with under the integuments of the Jrunk in yonng females, and middle-aged people of both sexes. There are frequently more than one tumour in the same person. It tends to increase according to the princijDles already explained, and occasionally attains a monstrous .size, so as to weigh ten, fourteen, or even twenty-seven pounds, which was the weight of one removed from the parietes of the abdomen by Sir A. Cooper. It generally occasions no inconvenience except what is caused by its bulk, but sometimes becomes the seat of uneasy sensations, and weakens, in some way not yet explained, the voluntary action of the neigh- bouring muscles. It is not prone to any morbid action or de- generation, but has in some cases been found altered in this way. In treating adipose sarcoma, it is found that the means which promote absoi-ption have little or no effect, and that excision is the only mode of affording the patient relief, unless the tumour happens to have a very narrow neck, when the litagure may be employed, but not so advantageously as the knife, since the root or part seated under the skin necessarily remains, and is apt to prove the source of a future growth. The capsule which sur- rounds the growth hardly adheres to it, except in the circumstance above mentioned of having been subjected to pressure, so that