CG PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. insidiously, so as not to attract attention until it attains a large size. Owing to the want of action that attends its origin, there is little effusion of Ipnph, and consequently little resistance to the extension of the matter, whence the swelling is often of an irregular figure, and readily changes its place according to the tendency of gravity. Wlien the matter passes from one part to another, it constitutes what is called a congestive absaess. The contents of chronic abscesses are generally thin, and bear no small resemblance to whey, especially as they usually have flakes of curdy-looking matter floating in them. The superjacent skin is generally not altered in colour. These abscesses have little disposition to evacuate themselves spontaneously, as the matter readily extends itself, and thus does not occasion sufficient pressure to induce absorption of the ex- ternal parietes. It is hence the more necessary to make an artificial opening, but this cannot be done without some danger when the collection is large. The surface of the cavity, which not unfrequently is capacious enough to contain several pounds of fluid, sometimes inflames, and produces such violent constitu- tional disturbance as proves fatal in a few days. More frequently the bad consequence consists in a profuse and long-continued discharge from the morbid surface, by which the patient's strength is gradually exhausted, and Hectic Fever, as it is called, is excited. In this condition, the patient becomes excessively weak and emaciated; the countenance is extremely pale, with the exception of a red patch on the cheeks, whicb contrasts re- markably with the whiteness of the other parts of the face and especially of the eyes; the pulse is quick and weak; he com- plains, particularly in the evening, of burning heat in the palms of his hands and soles of his feet; his skin is dry and hot; and he suffers from noctiirnal sweats, often together with diarrhoea. This kind of disturbance is the usual result of continued irritation operating on a weak subject, and one of its most common causes is the discharge that follows the opening of a chronic abscess. It used to be supposed that the matter occa- sioned the fever by being absorbed into the mass of circulat-