THROAT. 299 as the diluted mineral acids, or strong alkaline solutions, are in- troduced into the oesophagus, the usual consequence, in case the patient survives, is thickening and contraction of its coats. And it may reasonably be imagined that the change in qu.estion is produced by similar causes operating on a smaller scale; but the patient can hardly ever refer the origin of his complaint to any particular irritation from stimulating food or other source. The symptoms of this disease generally manifest themselves very insidiously. The swallowing of large morsels becomes difficult and painful; the food is more carefully masticated than before; and as the contraction increases, while none but very small portions of solid matter can be got down, even they in passing the stricture occasion pain, which is felt shooting into the back of the neck and shoulders. From the frequent recur- rence of this distressing sensation, and the dread of exciting it, the patient's countenance acquires a very characteristic expres- sion of anxiety; which, together with the emaciation that results from deficient supply of nourishment, is almost sufficient to betray the nature of the case to an experienced practitioner. It may be added, that the voice is peculiar, sounding as if the person spoke with a foreign body in his throat; that there is no swelling to be perceived by external examination; and that, though there is frequent spitting of saliva, no blood is discharged. But the only method of positively ascertaining the existence, seat, and degree of stricture, is to introduce a succession of bougies, gradually decreased in size from that which ought to enter the oesophagus readily, if it were sound, down to that which the constriction is capable of admitting. The treatment of this kind of stricture has been conducted on two principles:—one of them being to apply caustic, with the view of destroying the thickened or contracted part of the membrane; and the other to produce a gradual dilatation of it by means of bougies. The former of these methods, though supported by the strong recommendation of Sir E. Home and other authorities, labours under the objection of being painful, difficult, and attended with great danger of injury to the neigh-