79 DISEASED NUTKITION. bone and cartilage. The pain is usually of a lancinating or darting kind, not constant, but attacking the patient by fits. Sometimes it is described as hot or burning, and is then usually more fixed. Carcinoma tends to inflame and ulcerate. If the skin is affected, this takes place on the surface, in which a breach opens, and gradually extends. If the disease be more deeply seated, an abscess is formed within it, which discharges its contents, and leaves a cavity ready to take on the same sort of action as the ulcer which is established in the other way. In both cases the ulcer makes no advance towards reparation, but proves truly specific and incorrigible, and is named a Cancer. The process is occasionally reversed, the morbid formation taking place round a sore, which in the first instance does not present any malig- nant characters. The base and edges of cancer are of course extremely hard, siace the excavation is formed in a carciao- matous mass. The ulcer is very irregular in the shape of its margin and surface; sometimes it is deep, and as if scooped out of the part; at other times, cauliflower-looking excrescences rise from it, and hang over the edge. The discharge is generally profuse, bloody, and fetid. The pain is usually incessant, and of various kinds, but sometimes gives very httle trouble. The patient loses appetite and sleep; complains of wandering pains and weakness of the limbs; becomes gradually exhausted; and .at last dies, in general rather suddenly, before the period which might have been expected from the progress of the disease. The rapidity of its course varies greatly, a few months being some- times sufficient for its reaching a fatal termination; while in other cases it exists for years with little change, or even remains stationary altogether. The treatment of carcinoma in its different stages has engaged more attention than perhaps that of any other surgical disease; and it has been repeatedly believed that means of correcting the morbid action were discovered. More careful observation has uniformly proved these expectations to be fallacious: and it must be admitted, that, so far as we know at present, there is no