58 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY, speaking, lotions answer best, and of these the black wash, which is formed by decomposing calomel with lime water in the proportion of eight or ten grains to the ounce, and a weak solu- tion of sulphate of copper, are the most useful. Ulcers depending on the suppression of other habitual dis- charges, such as the menstrual, should be treated on the same principle, the particular means employed being varied according to the circumstances of the case. When an ulcer continues to exist without any local or con- stitutional irritation to account for its doing so, the obstinacy may then be fairly referred to peculiarity of action. This morbid disposition is either confined to the ulcer, or exists generally throughout the system. Specific ulcers may accordingly be divided into Constitutional and Local. Specific Ulcers present every variety of character. Their colour is usually gray, yellow, or purple; their surface is some- times deeply excavated, at other times elevated into fimgous gro^vths, presenting a sort of cauliflower appearance. Their discharges vary without limit as to colour, consistence, and quantity. The pain attending them is also very variable. The cicatrix exhibits various peculiarities in the mode of its forma- tion, often commencing in the centre or at one side, and shooting over the remainder of the area—or going on at one part wliile the ulcer extends at another—and being in general considerably depressed below the surrounding surface, but not unfrequently elevated into projections above it. The treatment varies with the nature of the general or local disposition which maintains the ulcer. If it appears that the patient's system has been disordered by mercury, the best means of promoting recovery is blistering of the sore surface, with the internal use of the iodide of potassium in small doses. When the ulcer resists every means employed to induce a healing action, it is generally named a Cancer, the only remedy for which is extirpation. This may be effected by caustics, the ligature, and the knife. The first-mentioned means are proper where the sore is of no great depth, or of much extent; the