35 MOETmCATION. port from wine and spirits. When the mortification does not cease to extend^ it comes to he a question whether or no the surgeon ought to interfere with the knife. The objection to doing so is, that, although the constitutional symptoms may be alleviated for a time after the amputation, the patient is in general soon reduced to the same state by sloughing of the cut surface. The most prudent course seems to be a middle one— to abstain from amputation when the mortification depends upon an internal cause, or one that cannot be removed, and to operate when the cause is external or within reach. It does not follow from this rule, however, that amputation should always be per- formed when mortification of a limb ensues from external irrita- tion, since the most trivial injury is sufficient to induce it in an unhealthy subject. It is only when the violence of the action is fairly referrible to the local cause, without supposing constitu- tional defect, that the operation can be practised with propriety. Though the extent of mortification may not be defined, if it de- pends upon a cause which is limited in its operation, as a bruise, or the obstruction of an aii;ery at some ascertained part of its course, the propriety of amputation wiU be stm more manifest. In those cases where the mortification spontaneously ceases to extend, as when it has resulted from the exposure of a part to cold, it often becomes a question whether the process should be confided entirely to the power of the system, or be anticipated by amputation, in order to hasten recovery, and provide a better stump than could be expected if the bones were allowed to separate without any covering being provided for them. On the whole, it seems best to adopt a middle course, and avoid inter- ference unto, the soft parts are nearly detached, when they may be easily dissected a little upwards so as to expose the bone and allow it to be divided with a saw, or disarticulated sufficiently high to let the integuments meet over, and afford the necessary protection to its extremity. The discrimination between those cases of external injury in which the mortification is to remain local, and those in which it is to extend, requires no less experience than judgment ; and it