BLOOD-VESSELS. 127 —or at all events on a level with the trunk. The external incision should be two inches and a half long, or more if the patient's neck is thick. It should extend along the internal or sternal edge of the sterno-mastoid, and be more or less distant from the sternum, according to the part of the vessel which it is wished to tie. The artery lies most superficially in the higher part of the n'&ck, where it is covered merely by the integuments, platysvia myoides, and fascia. Lower doAvn it is overlapped by the sterno-mastoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, and is crossed by the omo-hyoid. The upper part of its course, therefore, would be preferable for the purpose ; but as the disease or injury which re- quires the ligature is generally seated here, the surgeon has seldom any choice, and must in general operate at or below the crossing of the omo-hyoid. The edge of the sterno-mastoid having been brought into view, should be held aside, so as to expose the ascending belly of the omo-hyoid, which in its turn being turned either up or down, accordingly as it is desired to tie the vessel above or below it, of which plans the latter is usually preferable, the sheath of the vessel will present itself. It ought to be opened on the tracheal side, to avoid the descendens noni, which runs down the centre, and, what is of more consequence, to prevent any risk of injuring the internal jugular vein, which lies on the outer side, and overlaps the artery. The par vagum being situated behind the vessels, is hardly in the way of harm. The convexity of the needle ought to be turned towards the vein. In a case of traumatic carotid aneurism at the lower part of the neck, which extended to the sternum, and therefore pr^;^ eluded the possibility of applying a ligature below the tumour, I punctured the sac so as to admit my finger, and having thus detected the arterial orifice, closed it by pressure while I laid the cavity freely open, sponged out its contents, and tied the vessel above as weU as below the apenturc. The result was completely successful, and saved not only the patient's life, but also that of his assailant who inflicted the wound. The bold operation of tying the arteria ynominata was first performed by Dr. Mott (1818), on account of subclavian aneurism.