PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 210 it lias been formed in the periosteum. The new osseous substance may be observed at some parts in the form of small distinct scales. At other parts it looked as if it had originally consisted of separate portions, and been composed by their union. The periosteum connecting these portions to each other and to the extremities of the bone was not thickened beyond its natui-al condition; and where it covered the posterior surface of the tibia, though quite detached fi'om the old bone, had not suffered any further change. It also appeared that at those parts where the periosteum was absent, no new bone had been formed, so that the cloacce would have been formed by these defective portions, and not by absorption, as was supposed to be always the case. " There is here, then, an instance of a bone dying suddenly in consequence of acute inflammation, without any thickening pre- viously formed in its neighbourhood, and nevertheless sxicceeded by the production of a new osseous shell, which evidently could not proceed from the old bone, and no less evidently depended upon an ossific process resident in the periosteum. " As Nature is not capricious or variable in her proceedings, I regard this case as sufficient of itself, without any further evidence, to establish the ossific power of the periosteum. But, with the view of making the matter stUl more clear, I performed the following experiments. I exposed the radius of a dog, and removed an inch and three-quarters of it together with the periosteum. At the same time I exposed the radius of the other leg, and removed a corresponding portion without the periosteum, which was carefully detached from it and left quite entire, except where slit open in front. Six weeks afterwards the dog was killed, and the bones examined. In the one, from which a portion had been taken together with the periosteum, the ex- tremities were found extended towards each other in a conical form, with a great deficiency of bone between them, and in its place merely a small band of tough ligamentous texture. In the other, where the periosteum had been allowed to remain, there was a compact mass of bone not only occupying the