378 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEKY. of the kidneys then become distended, after which the secretion of urine being opposed by the pressure of that already accumu- lated, the patient's state remains without much alteration, until evacuation is effected artificially, or takes place through ulcerative absorption of the coats of the bladder. In this state the patient suffers inexpressible distress from a constant desire to empty his bladder, and from the incessant efforts, violent but abortive, which it induces him to make. Small quantities of water dribble away by drops from time to time, as the secretion slowly proceeds, but the tumour suffers no diminution of size or tension. Exposure to cold or wet, and injuries of the spine, give rise to the same powerless condition of the bladder; and if tliere be any mechanical obstacle to excretion previously existing, as from stricture of the urethra, swelling of the prostate gland, or tumours pressing on the canal, or if the expulsive power of the bladder be weaker than usual, this effect is still more readily produced. In old age the bladder is apt to lose its tone and expel the urine imperfectly. The patient observes that he makes water more freqiiently than before,—that he does so in smaller quantity at one time,—that the stream is not forcible, but small and dribbling,—and that he passes more or less of it during his sleep. It is the last symptom which generally first attracts notice and leads to the more careful attention that detects the others. The obvious explanation of it is, that the bladder never being fully emptied, but merely having the excess expelled, which its feeble power, aided by the compression of the ab- dominal muscles, is able to command, and becoming distended beyond this extent during sleep, while the resistance of the voluntary muscles at the neck and membranous part of the urethra is no longer opposed to its evacuation, the water flows away gently without awakening the patient. The treatment of this palsied state of the bladder, whatever be its cause or degree, absolutely requires, in the first place, that the water should be dra,wn off, since it is only by being allowed to contract that the muscular fibres can recover their usual power. This is effected by introducing a catheter, which may be either