rKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 258 hence there is (111 obvious advantage of the cautery over the caustic; but its chief recommendation is the result of experi- ence, and this is so strong as to leave no room for doubt or hesitation in preferring it to the other means. When the cauteiy is used, an eschar three or four inches long should be formed on each side of the joint. In mild cases, and during convalescence, the forcible aspersion of warm water by pumping, or pouring from a height, is attended with much benefit. To remedy tlie rigidity tliat remains after recovery, steaming with the vapour of hot water, frictions with gently stimulating liniments, shampooing, and persevering exercise, are the means that ought to be employed. Nervous or Hysterical Affections of the Joints. Young women, particxilarly those of the higher ranks, are apt to suffer from painful sensations in the joints, which closely simulate the symptoms of articular disease connected with alteration of structure, and consequently are apt to lead to treat- ment no less unnecessary than injurious. Counter-irritation and confinement in such cases tend to increase the constitutional derangement which gives rise to the complaint, and ought, there- fore, to be carefully abstained from, imless it maybe thought neces- sary to make an impression, in the fii'st instance, on the patient's mind by some active measures. In general, the proper course is to pursue an invigorating mode of life by using the shower-bath, taking the preparations of iron, and regularly exercisulg the limbs as well as the body. The spine, knee, hip, ankle, and wiist joints are the most common seats of this troublesome affection. In respect to its diagnosis, the absence of swelling, or any other symptom except pain, together vdth the time of life and general condition of the patient, constitute the best marks of distinction from structural derangements. Sir B. Brodie, to whom the profession are much indebted for the attention wliich he has directed to this form of nervous disease, considers, as one of the best characters for its recognition, the sensibility of the patient to impressions on the surface of the joint that cannot possibly affect the condition of the articulation, pinching the skin being