PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 386 harm, its beneficial effects are still in the highest degree unsatis- factory. Division of the stricture by internal incision has been pro- posed and practised at various times, by introducing a canula with enclosed lancet blade, which may be protruded after the sheath has been conveyed down to the stricture. Mr. Stafford advocated this operation, and improved it by the invention of ingenious instruments for its performance; but the objections which have been alleged to the caustic apply stiU more strongly to such a mode of treatment, since it can never be safe, even ia the hands of the most expert operator, and has proved to be pro- ductive at the best of only temporary benefit. A French sur- geon named Eeybard has modified this process by using instruments of an enormous size, the canula being equal to a bougie of the full magnitude, and containing a blade large enough to cut through not only the urethra but also the corpus spongiosum. The disastrous effects of such a preposterous engine are fortunately prevented by the obvious impracticability of its employment for the remedy of stricture. Another mode of inci- sion has been long practised for contractions deemed imprac- ticable. This was named Boutonniere, or the button-hole operation, and consisted in passing a bougie or catheter down to the obstruction, and cutting beyond its point, so as to open the distended canal. It was extremely embarrassing in the execution, very dangerous from the risk of hemorrhage and ex- travasation of urine, and hardly productive of more than tem- porary relief. Dilatation has been long employed to remove strictures of the urethra, and even before it was known to be the cause of amendment. When fleshy excrescences were regarded as the source of obstruction, bougies, armed with caustic, or medicated as it was termed, with various ingredients believed to have the power of promoting absorption, were introduced into the passage. The caustic, no doubt, produced its peculiar effects, but the otlaer materials were found at length to be quite useless; and it be- came apparent that the good effects which attended their em-