PUmCIPLES OF SURGERY. 522 unless the edges of the integuments be very closely approxi- mated, a salivary fistula is apt to remain at the part. In case it should take place, the patient will labour under the double annoyance of dryness of the mouth during mastication, and a dis- charge of fluid oh such occasions from the preternatural orifice. The use of soft or fluid food, and pressure applied to the gland, afford some palliation of these complaints ; but the radical cure of them requires the re-establishment of a passage into the mouth, and obliteration of the external aperture. Both of these objects may be obtained by introducing a smaU seton through the cheek, from the fistula, into the mouth, withdrawing it after the lapse of a few days; and then, having rendered the edges of the external opening raw by paring them with a knife, uniting them together by means of the twisted suture. UntU the cui'e is completed, the patient should subsist on fluid articles of nourish- ment, and abstain from moving the jaws by spealdng, or any other exercise of them. The neighbourhood of the parotid gland is frequently affected with diffused inflammation and suppuration of the cellular sub- stance, which, owing to the presence of a thin but dense fascia lying over this part of the face, does not form a prominent tumour, and spreads extensively instead of pointing. The patient in consequence suffers great and protracted distress, untU an incision is made to let the matter escape. Morbid growths also often bccur here, and by causing absorption of the parotid in proportion to their own enlarge- ment, at length sometimes completely take the place of the gland. These tumours are generally of the fibrous kind, fre- quently containing cysts in their substance, and tending at length to assume the medullary sarcomatous action. Blistering and iodine ointment occasionally check the increase, or even excite the removal by absorption of enlargements in this situation ; but when they prove obstinate, the only remedy for them is the knife. K the morbid mass is deeply seated, it is necessary, in effecting its removal, to avoid cutting the common trimk of the temporal and internal maxillary arteries, and also the ^orfo'o dnm, or facial