387 PELVIS. ployment depended entirely iipon tlie mechanical pressure of the instrument. Though the direct effect of a bougie is merely mechanical, the removal of the stricture depends on a vital pro- cess which is thus excited, and not on simple stretching. The pressure excites interstitial absorption of the thickened walls of the canal, and hence it is, that when an instrument of a certain .size has been passed with difficulty, a larger one can often be readily introduced by a subsequent attempt a few days after- wards. Such being the mode in which benefit is derived from the use of simple bougies in the treatment of stricture, it is evident that they must be employed so as to produce merely such a degree of irritation as is sufficient for giving rise to ab- soi-ption, since more than this might be apt to occasion intersti- tial effusion instead of absorption, and aggravate the stricture instead of relieving it. The bougies, therefore, should not be introduced too frequently, or too forcibly, or for too long a time ; and their use should not be persisted in when the parts or sys- tem are particularly irritable. Metallic bougies are best calcu- lated for the purpose, being the most smooth and easily guided. They may be made solid of steel and hollow of silver, or of the compound metal named Berlin silver, which I have found to answer very well for the purpose, being sufficiently rigid, taking a fine polish, and not being liable to rust. They should be gently paesed down to the obstructed part, in a series of gradually de- creasing sizes, until one can be introduced into the bladder, after which it ought to be immediately withdrawn. In the course of two or three days, when all the irritation that has thus been excited seems to have subsided, the same instrument may again be introduced ; and after it is withdrawn, another of somewhat larger size. By proceeding in this way, the cure, in moderately favourable circumstances, may be completed within from three to six weeks. The grand error to be avoided is that of proceed- ing too hastily, which not only defeats the practitioner in attain- ing the object he has in view, but exposes the patient to the danger of hemorrhage, complete retention of urine, swelled tcS' tide, feverish attacks resembling ague, and other unpleasant