473 BKAJN. every case exposed by the blow that caused the injury. In general the apertiu-e is large enough to allow the broken pieces to be picked out; but sometimes it is necessary for this purpose to remove a circular portion by means of the trephine. In this case the centre pin of the instrument should be fixed at the margin of the opening, as near as possible to the middle of the injured part. After the operation, the patient must be protected from all sources of excitement, and freely depleted, if threaten- ings of inflammation appear. "VYounds of the brain, unless very deep or extensive, are not immediately attended with any remarkable indications of the injury, except what may be presented to view by the part itseK. The patient often walks, speaks, and conducts himself in other respects, as if not materially hurt. Inflammation almost inevit- ably, however, soon comes on, and proving no less intense than imcontrollable, usually terminates fatally in the course of a day or two. The treatment ought to be directed with the view of preventing and checking these bad consequences, but will seldom be productive of much benefit, and therefore the prognosis in such cases is very unfavourable. Hernia cerebri is a protrusion that frequently occurs, when . the dura mater has been exposed or injured in consequence of external violence. The membrane becomes prominent, dis- coloured, soft, and at length perforated by a small aperture, which enlarging, allows a fungous excrescence to expand itself. Tliis growth is found on dissection to consist of a bloody mass, in which some traces of the cerebral substance can be discerned, and seems to resemble in constitution the fungus of the testicle that has been described above. It probably depends upon the brain having been injured by the concussion proceeding from the blow which caused the injury, and suffering in succession ecchymosis, inflammation, and suppuration, wliich, extending to the dura mater, effects its perforation, and permits the soft sub- stance of the brain to escape from the pressure that it sustains within tlie cranium, mixed with coagulated blood effused into its interstices, so as to present the appearance of a solid tumour.