PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 182 applying a baudage at each extremity of the sphnt, so as to draw the foot and upper end of the tibia towards it, and thus effectu- ally counteracting the distortion which is caused by the weight of the limb, and the action of the peroneal muscles. Sometimes along with this fracture the foot is found displaced not to the side but backwards, in which case the heel is remarkably elon- gated and the instep shortened. After the parts have been adjusted by suitable extension and pressure the same apparatus is to be used, with this difference, that the cushion and splint are placed in front. Dupuytren directed them to be placed be- hind, but I have not been able to attain the object desired in this way. The lower end of the splint should have the form of a horse-shoe, so as to embrace the instep. When the fibula is fractured higher up, the cause is generally direct violence, and the symptoms are so obscure, that, unless the examination be instituted early, before swelling comes on, it is difficult to decide whether the bone is broken or not. The treatment requires ; merely a roller applied from the toes upwards, to prevent motion. The tibia is occasionally fractured, while the fibula remains entire, generally in consequence of falling from a height on the : heel, and gives way most frequently a few inches from the lower end. There is usually not much displacement, but great pain, and complete loss of power over the leg. The treatment is easily conducted, since it requires merely the use of means for prevent- ing motion ; and a couple of pasteboard or leather splints, secured by the looped bandage, so that they may be relaxed or tightened according to the degree of swelling, will be found sufficient for the purpose, the limb being laid on its outer side, with the knee bent. The tibia and fibula are very often broken together. The fracture is generally oblique, and seated about the middle, or towards the lower third of the limb. The two bones seldom give ' way opposite to each other, and frequently do so at the distance of several inches. The accident sometimes results from direct violence, but more usually is caused by strains on the shafts of the bones, from twists or falls. There being in this case no longer