PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 238 afforded by the foot. The great efficiency of this method depends upon the direction of the extending force, which is not opposed to the action of the pectoralis major and latissiinus dorsi, as when the limb is drawn outwards at a right angle to the chest. In every case which proves difficult, or is expected to be so, from the duration of the displacement, extension should be made downwards, or in the longitudinal direction of the body, either by pulling with the heel in the axilla, or by employing the strength of assistants, aided, if necessary, by the pulley, to draw the arm in this direction, while counter-extension is effected by a cushion secured in the axilla by a strap passing round the shoulders, and secured to a wall or other firm support. In tliis way dislocations of several weeks' standing may be readUy reduced ; and even at the end of six or seven, success need not be despaired of; but beyond this period, notwithstanding occasional instances of success, the case in general must be regarded nearly hopeless. In dislocation of the humerus forwards, the head of the bone lies on the sternal side of the coracoid process, a position into which it can get only by suffering a- secondary displacement after having been forced downwards. The muscles then draw it upwards and inwards, as far as the clavicle allows. In this case the limb is rather shortened. The elbow is bent and in the state of abduction, owing to the position of the head of the humerus, and, from the same cause, there is less numTjness and sweUing of the limb. There is not so much perceptible de- pression imder the acromion, and the axilla is not so completely occupied as when it contains the head of the bone. As might be expected from the negative character of these symptoms, the diagnosis is not so easy as that of dislocation downwards; and hence practitioners who are not sufficiently careful frequently overlook the nature of the accident. Tlie reduction should be performed as in the former case ; but it is here still more advantageous to extend downwards, in order to dislodge the bone from the position into which it is drawn by the muscles.