GENITAL ORGANS. 431 tliat proceeding from sores of the penis, and, therefore, may be more properly considered in connection with them. Abscesses sometimes form in the cellular substance exterior to the urethra, at all parts of its extent, from the orifice back to the anus. So soon as they are recognised, an incision ought to be made for the evacuation of the matter, which, if permitted to make a way for itself, may cause ulcerative absorption of the mucous membrane. "When the inflammation spreads back along the urethra to the bladder, it induces the painful symptoms which have been described under the head of Eetention of urine from spasm, and irritable bladder, and requires the treatment that has been already explained in regard to them. Inflammation of the testicle is a common attendant of gonorrhoea, but will be more conveniently arranged along with the other morbid affections of that organ. Gonorrjicea Preputialis. A purulent discharge is occasionally induced from the surface of the glans and prepuce in persons who have this covering long, and the lining integument of its inner surface approximating the nature of a mucous membrane. From the tightness of the pre- puce in such cases, it is generally difficult to bring the orifice of the urethra into view, and the source of the running is, in conse- quence, often referred erroneously to the usual seat of gonorrhoea. As this mistake leads to improper practice, it ought to be avoided by carefully di-awing back the fore-skin until the opening of the urethra comes into view, and then squeezing the penis so as to force out the matter, which wiU shew, by the direction whence it comes, where it has been secreted. The absence of pain in making water affords another good ground of dis- tinction between this form of the disease and the other. The treatment consists in injecting the black wash four or five times a day between the glans and prepuce. Warts. A very common consequence of gonorrhoea, particularly of the preputial kind, is the growth of warty excrescences, chiefly