372 PKINCIPLES or SURGERY. or long-continxied straining at stool; and in adults., generally, violent exertions, as ia. lifting weights on tlie back. Some local irritation, as that of ascarides in the rectum, or stone in the bladder, is often concerned in producing the disease in young persons, especially when it attains a great extent. The partial prolapsus, which is usually met with in adults, depends upon the presence of hemorrhoids. An attentive consideration of the circumstances which have just been mentioned will indicate the preventive and remedial measures that promise to be most beneficial. In treating the complete prolapsus of children, it is necessary, in the first place, to remove any local source of irritation that may be discovered to exist; and, should there not appear to be some such excitiug cause, the patient must be prevented from straining long or vio- lently at stool, by having his bowels kej)t in an easy state, and by being placed on an elevated seat, which will not permit his feet to touch the ground, and consequerrtly render it difficult for him to bend his body forwards, which makes the pressure of the diaphragm act more directly on the contents of the pelvis. The partial protrusion that occurs in adults, requires for its remedy the removal of hemorrhoidal excrescences, whether ex- ternal or internal,—the prevention of constipation by suitable regimen and medicine,—and the use of injections thrown into the rectum. When there is much relaxation, and consequent tendency to prolapsus, it wiU be observed that th'B integuments round the margin of the anus, when the gut has been replaced, are not tense and smooth, but loose, and thrown into radiating folds. M. Dupuytren proposed to cut away some of these folds, and, by thus diminishing the extent of the redundant sldn, wldle consolidation of the remainder was induced by the adhesive process foUowiug the inflammation excited by the operation, radically cure the disease. Mr. Hey of Leeds, with a similar view, removed the whole of the loose skin. This excision is easily performed, and generally proves effectual. Sometimes the ring of the prolapsed membrane, from inflaming, becomes permanently protruded, and the patient, who suffers constant