PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 200 The treatment is to be conducted on the same principles as that of periostitis. Wlien the inflammation is acute, it termi- nates very speedily in absorption, suppuration, or death of the part affected, and seems to be hardly influenced by any remedial measure. But when chronic, it is more under control, yielding in the dense bones to blisters, employed along with alterative medicines, and in the spongy bones to the actual cautery. The swellings which are occasioned, both by chronic periostitis and inflammation of the bone itself, are called Nodes. Necrosis. The expression Necrosis has been employed to denote dif- ferent morbid affections of the osseous tissue, and has conse- quently given rise to much confusion. It literally implies merely the deprivation of life, but has been imderstood to denote also the consequent reproduction of new osseous substance. All the bones are liable to necrosis, but those which possess a dense texture are more subject to it than the spongy ones. The causes of necrosis are various. It was formerly believed that the mere removal of the periosteum certainly caused the death of a scale of the bone more or less thick, by dej)riving it of nourishment, and hence it was a rule, with the old surgeons, to hasten exfoliation in all such cases by applying the actual or potential cautery. But it is now ascertained that simply remov- ing the periosteum does not necessarily cause exfoliation, and that when a bone throws off a scale, after being so exposed, it generally does so in consequence of the injury which it has sus- tained from the violence that occasioned the separation of the membrane. Blows, falls, strains, and exposure to cold, are the causes that most frequently give rise to necrosis, and they act either directly, by at once destroying the vitality of the part affected, or indirectly, by exciting inflammation, wliich terminates in the death of the bone. The inflammation, when acute, is not confined to the bone, but generally affects all the superjacent tissues ; whence it has .been erroneously supposed, from redness of the skin being present, that erysipelas or inflammation of the