rRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 388 consequences. The urethra should always be dilated to its full size, as a relapse is otherwise apt to happen ; but any further extension than this can do no good. There are two forms of stricture in which the bougie has been found inadequate to afford relief. In one of these the canal, especially at the seat of contraction, is so extremely irri- table that even the most gentle use of instruments gives rise to violent and dangerous disturbance of the system, with rigors followed by fever, and frequently local inflammation. The patient, exhausted by such efforts, dreads their repetition ; and successive practitioners, finding that their most careful efforts lead only to the same results, any further attempts to afford relief are at length deemed inexpedient, and the disease is allowed to pursue its course, until a fatal retention of urine, or some equally fatal operation, undertaken to prevent extravasa- tion, terminates the complicated sufferings of such a case. In the other form of stricture which resists the ordinary means of treatment, there is an extreme degree of resiliency and tendency to contract after dilatation, so that only the most evanescent relief can be obtained through the means employed for this pur- pose. It may be added, that in both of these obstinate forms, the s}mptoms of the disease are, in general, peculiarly distress- ing, the urine being not only expelled with great difficulty by drops, or the smallest of thread-like streams, but also very im- perfectly retained, dribbling away involuntarily by day as well as night, and causing the utmost discomfort, by its effects on the patient's clothes and skin, exposed to the acrid moisture. In 1844, 1 felt great pleasure in communicating to the pro- fession a mode of remedy, which had afforded complete and per- manent relief in a case of obstinate stricture, than which it was impossible to imagine one more distressing or more hopeless, under any other known means of treatment. In 1849, en- couraged by further experience, I published a treatise on the treatment of stricture, with the view of explaining and recom- mending this method, and since that time have related a great many additional cases illustrative of its effects. For more parti-