PELVIS. 407 always con-espond directly in their severity with the degree to wliich the secretion of nrine is morbidly altered. In order to determine what remedies ought to be prescribed for this purpose, the urine of the patient must be examined. If it shews the cha- racters which denote an excess of acid, alkaline medicines will be indicated. Of these the carbonates of soda and potash are the best, and may be administered in the dose of a scruple or half a drachm, two or three times a day, dissolved in a tumbler of water. Lime-water and soap-ley were formerly much used in various forms and combinations, in the expectation of their pro- ducing a solvent effect on the stone ; and the relief experienced from them was often so great as to afford apparently good ground for believing that they possessed such a power. It is admitted now that they could act beneficially only by correcting morbid derangements of the urinary secretion ; and they are, therefore, sxiperseded by the less nauseous all?;aline preparations above mentioned. If, on the contrary, the quantity of earthy and alka-\ line salts seems to be redundant, acids should be employed. The muriatic is usually preferred, and may be given in the dose of twenty or thiiiy drops, in a sufficient quantity of water, three times a day. When, along with this state of the urine, there exists much irritation about the bladder and kidneys, as is gene- ] rally the case, small doses of opium ought to be conjoined with [ ■ the acid; and other means of a soothing kind, as the hip-bath j and opiate injections, at the same time prescribed. Whatever be/ the nature of the derangement, it will always be proper to correct any errors in the patient's diet or mode of living that tend to injuri the health in general, and the digestive functions in particular. 1 The means which are employed with the view of effecting a radical cure, may be considered under three heads, accordingly as they act:—1. By promoting the escape.of the stone entire through the natural passage ; 2. By breaking down the stone into fragments small enough for being carried out with the stream of urine; and, 3. By cutting a free outlet for the stone. Eenal calculi of smaU size generally remain only a short time in the bladder, and pass out with the urine often almost imnie-