AMPUTATION. 163 ments connecting the fingers. The flaps being detached, he may readily pass the point of his knife round the head of the bone. Lisfranc made one flap first, then carried his knife through the joint, and completed the operation by cutting outwards. When the parts retain their natural laxity, this proceeding is equally easy and expeditious ; but if they are thickened and indurated, as is generally the case, the second flap is very apt to be injured in detaching the head of the bone ; and even in the most favour- able circumstances it is much more difficult to adapt the flaps properly to each other in this way, than in the one just described. One or two stitches are often useful in keeping the edges of the skin in contact. Of all the operations for ampu.tating fingers this is the most important, from the frequency of cases requiring its application. The distal phalanx, indeed, almost never stands in need of removal by itself, since nearly all the morbid conditions to which it is subject from injury or disease admit of reparation ; and it is of course always advisable to retain the extremity of the finger with its protecting nail, even though the bone, in whole or . part, may be taken away ; and when more than the distal phalanx must be removed, it is almost always better, in respect to appearance as well as use, to amputate the whole finger. When • the fore or little finger requires removal, the articulating extremity of the metacarpal bone should be taken off for the sake of appearance. "V\naen a portion of the metacarpal bone requires to be removed, •the best method is to apply the point of the knife at the part where the bone requires to be divided, and cut down on each side of it, in the angle formed by the integuments between the fingers, so as to make the incisions meet below, opposite the metacarpo- digital articulation; and then divide the bone by means of the cutting-pKers, which were introduced into surgery by Mr. Listen at an early period of his practice,—and from their extensive utility may be regarded as the most valuable addition that has been made to the modern armoury of the profession. When the metacarpal bone of the thumb is the one concerned, a portion of it may be removed by making two incisions, commencing where