475 BllALN. compresses on their orifices. Bruises of tlie scalp, though perhaps apparently very trivial, are sometimes followed, at a distant date after the accident, by very disagreeable symptoms, denoting chronic inflammation of the pericranium, or dura mater. In such cases there are usually indications of constitutional derangement previous to the accident, and means proper for correcting this general disorder may be sufficient to remove the local complaint. But if the patient, after being subjected to an alterative course of diet and medicines, still suffers from pain- ful sensations of the scalp, aggravated by pressure on the injured part, from headache and sickness, or from perversion of any fimction connected with the cerebral organs, a_firucial incision ought to be made down to the bone, and be-prevented from heaUng until it is closed by the contraction of the granulating- process. Wounds of the scalp are to be treated in accordance with the general principles that have been explained. The neighbouring hairs should be always shaven clean away, and those more distant cut short to prevent them from insinuating themselves between the edges of the sore, collecting blood or other matters discharged from it, or impeding the application of dressings. If the scalp is detached from the bone in the form of a fiap, it ought not to be cut away, as was done previously to the time of Mr. Pott, who shewed the advantage of allowing nature to determine how far the part was rendered incapable of recovery* No inconvenience arises from replacing the flap in the first instance ; and if even a portion only of it should be saved, the cure wiU be greatly accelerated. When sand or other impurities are lodged in the wound, it must be carefully washed; and if this proves insufficient, a poultice may be applied until the surface is freed from all foreign matters. All wounds of the scalp, but especially those of a pimctiired form, are apt to occasion extensive inflammation of the neighbouring integu- ments. . It would not be proper, by way of pveventmg this, to make any incisions in the first instance ; but if the bad conse- quences in question shoidd ensue, free dilatation, together with