GRANULATION. 55 more economical, wliicli is a point of great importance in treating tlie poor people who usually suffer from the disease—since the expense of strapping and bandaging their limbs very often pre- vents the treatment from being undertaken. Ulcers prevented from Healing ly Excess of Action. These ulcers have an irritable look, owing to redness of their own surface and that of the surrounding skin. In general they are deep, of a brownish-red colour, and shew no granulations— they are irregular in shape—their edges are abrupt and usually ragged—^their discharge is thin, serous, and often tinged with blood. Sometimes they are superficial—of a regular circular form—and exhibit no redness except a bright line at their mar- gin. The paia attending them is almost always acute. They form no cicatrix so long as they retain the irritable characters. Irritable or over-acting ulcers are met with in full overfed sub- jects, who possess strong powers of action, and in weak irritable individuals. They may also- occur merely as the effect of con- tinued irritation, whether direct or indirect. The treatment consists in removing all sources of irritation, and using local applications which have a sootlnng tendency. Of these, heat and moisture, as afforded by fomentations and poultices, are the best; and their effects may be increased by using decoctions of poppy heads, solution of acetate of lead with opium, etc. Scarification of the edges of the ulcer, or leeches, may also be employed if the symptoms are severe, but it is very seldom necessary to do so. Bleeding, purging, calomel, and opium, must also be resorted to according to the state of the system, so as to reduce excessive power of action and allay inordinate irritability. In relieving the ulcer from irritation it should be recollected, that motion has a powerful effect in causing or increasing it, and rest therefore ought to be strictly enforced. Ulcers of this kind sometimes go on progressively enlarging, and are then said to be Phagedenic. Wlaen the over-action runs stUl higher, so as to destroy the life of the part, it constitutes