PRINCIPLES OF SUKGERY. 382 oil should be given every day or two, according to circumstances. The food of the patient should he of the least stimulating kind ; and he should drink freely of mucilaginous diluent tluids, such as barley-water, containing small quantities of carbonate of soda, —nitrous ether,—or camphor mixture. Bodily fatigue and ex- posure to cold must be strictly avoided. Strickire of the Urethra. Strictures of the urethra were formerly attributed to fleshy excrescences obstructing the canal, and spasmodic contraction of the fibres lying in the substance or on the external surface of the iirethra. It is now almost universally admitted that they invari- ably depend upon narrowing and thickening of the lining coat, from lymph being effused and organized in its interstices. There is thus produced a constriction, varying in tightness from the slightest perceptible diminution of capacity to almost complete closure,—and in extent, from the breadth of a thread to the length of an inch or more. In some very rare cases the stricture has been found on dissection to exhibit what is called a bridle form, there being a fibrous band stretched across from one side of the canal to the other, in consequence, no doubt, of lymph having been effused into the interior of the canal, and organized there. The most common seat of stricture is anterior to the bulb, about five inches from the orifice. The one next in fre- quency is between two and three inches from the orifice. The other situations particularly exposed to its occurrence are the neck of the glans and orifice of the urethra. Two or more strictures are often met with in the same urethra, but when this is the case, one of them in general proves the most confirmed of the whole. The cause of strictures can seldom be positively ascertained, except in cases of injury from external violence. There is no doubt that a very large proportion of them occur subsequently to gonorrhoea, but whether this be in consequence of the disease, or the means employed to remedy it, admits of question. It may be safely stated, that inflammation, or at all events excitement of the urethra, precedes the process which