BONES. 229 cesses are traced downwards from the neck to the sacrum, the alternate bending in their course may be readily observed. As the curvature continues to increase, the distortion becomes more and more apparent;—the trunk is shortened and compressed;— the ribs are approximated from side to side, and protruded for- wai-ds to increase the capacity of the contracted thorax, which thus has its shape entirely altered, and is widest from before backwards. However far the disease may proceed, the limbs and pelvis remain free from any participation in it. In ascertaining the cause and nature of this curvature, the following circumstances which attend its commencement must be carefully recollected:—1. It occurs almost exclusively in females who devote a large proportion of their time, duriiig the period when the morbid disposition exists, to the pursuits usually followed in imdergoing a fashionable education, or to some sedentary occupation, which does not require or permit much bodily exertion. 2. It usually affects most seriously those indi- viduals who possess a slender frame, or one characterised by indications of a phlegmatic temperament,—their bodies, though thick and bulky, being pale, flabby, and prone to all the morbid states, depending on weakness of action. 3. Other things being equal, it occurs most certainly, and proceeds most rapidly, when the trunk is habitually maintained in a bent position. The predisposition to the disease, therefore, appears to be // constitutional weakness, and its exciting causes, circumstances I which increase the weakness of the spine particularly, and/ promote its bending by the figure they make it assume. The! strength of the spine depends partly upon the bones, and partly' upon the muscles composing it; and it is probable that the former are chiefly affected by the predisposition, while the latter are influenced more by the exciting causes. All muscles require frequent exercise for the preservation of their strength; but, during the occupations of drawing, playing, sewing, etc., while the extremities are either constantly employed, or, at all events, unrestrained in their movements, the trunk is not only held perfectly steady in one position, often a curved one, but is also