129 BLOOD-VESSELS. general be suppressed by carefully-employed pressure—a piece of cork wrapped in lint being applied over the part, and secured firmly in its place by a narrow roller, carried round the head and crossed repeatedly over the compress; but if the bleeding has not been effectually restrained at first, it becomes more obstinate from its continuance, by distending the cellular sub- stance, and impeding the effect of external pressure. In these circumstances, there should be no hesitation in cutting through the seat of the injury in the direction of the vessel, separating the integ-uments a little on each side, and then passing a ligature under the artery by means of a sharp needle, first on one and then on the other side of the breach. Aneurism by Anastomosis. Mr. John Bell described, under the title of Aneurism by Anastomosis, a subcutaneous tumour, which possessed a flattened shape, a doiTghy consistence, and a cellular structure, communi- cating very freely with the branches of neighbouring arteries, so that it pulsated or throbbed obscurely, and bled profusely when opened by incision, though when the morbid structure was cut entirely out there was not any more hemorrhage than might have been expected from the vessels of the part. Mr. Bell regarded this formation as composed of cells with which the veins and arteries freely communicated, and into which the blood was induced to flow with extraordinary force. The tendency of aneurism by anastomosis beiag to enlarge, open, and bleed, Mr. Bell recommended complete and speedy excision as the only and essential remedy. More recent and extended observation has not only thrown light upon the nature of this tumour, but also proved that there are others of an analogous kind which should be arranged along with it; and the term of Morbid Erectile Tissue has been em- ployed as the general title for this purpose. Every part of the capillary system probably has the power of inducing blood to enter it, and those portions of the body which, being distinguished by a remarkable degree of this property, are said to be formed K