PELVIS. 365 tion of them, the best remedy consists in the introduction of bougies successively increased in size, which, by inducing inter- stitial absoi-ption in the parietes of the intestine, gradually restores them to a natural state. Bougies for this purpose are employed of various materials, such as steel, elastic gum, wood, and glass. The two first are the best. They should be slightly curved to facilitate their entrance into the rectum, and, if metallic, have a bulging extremity to render their passage through the stricture more distinctly perceptible. Before being used, they ought to be heated by immersion in warm water, and anointed with some unctuous substance. There is no advantage in allowing them to remain for any length of time after being in- troduced. They should therefore be immediately withdra-mi, and ought not to be employed again before an interval of three or four days. Cancer of the rectum, is no less incurable than in other situations, and, of course, could not be excised without inflicting a mortal wound, unless of small extent, and confined to the verge of the anus ; all, therefore, that can be done for the patient in such unhappy circumstances, is soothing the irritation of the disfease by opiate injections, the hip-bath, and gentle laxatives. Fissures and Ulcers of the Rectum. M. Boyer, in his System of Surgery, describes, under the title of'Ger9ure, or fissure of the anus, a very troublesome affection, which had previously been almost entirely overlooked. It con- sists, according to him, of one or more small superficial ulcerated chops, lying in the direction of the radiated folds of the anus, but rather more internally, so as not to be visible without a forcible separation of the nates. The distinctive symptoms of the disease are—pain in the region of the anus, aggravated during evacuation of the bowels, and such a close constriction of the sphincter as renders the introduction of a finger, or even a much smaller body, insufferably painful. It may occur at any age, but is most fre- quently met with at and before the middle period of life, and in males much more frequently than females. The patient at first merely feels pain coming on some time after evacuation of the