349 ABDOMEN. ing the natural changes that lead to recovery. Incision is dan- gerous from the risk of cutting too much, and allowing the intestinal matters to be effused into the cavity of the abdomen. A ligature passed through the septum by means of a needle, which was first thought of by Dr. I*hysick of 'New York (1802), is more safe in the first instance, but must subject the patient to the chance of symptoms similar to those of strangulated hernia ; and the plan of M. Dupuytren (1813) seems to be on the whole the best. It consists in compressing the septum between the blades of forceps made to meet very accurately, the one being received into a groove of the other, and regulated in their ap- proximation by a screw. The pressure is thus completely under control, and can be increased, diminished, or altogether with- drawn, according to circumstances. The sloughing of a hernia is not the only cause of preter- natural anus. It may be produced also by ulceration of the intestine after it has contracted adhesions to the parietes- of the abdomen, or by wounds. It is always a source of extreme annoyance, and sometimes occasions dangerous symptoms, by the aperture proving inadequate to discharge the contents of the gut, while they are prevented from descending by their natural route. The treatment, therefore, deserves much attention. In the first instance, it is sufficient to keep the part clean, and pre- vent eversion of the upper extremity of the gut by applying gentle pressure, which is also useful by directing the feculent matters into their old channel. If the gut has become everted, it ought, if possible, to be immediately reduced; and in case this cannot be accomplished. Its more gradual return must be pro- moted by permanent pressure, slender diet, and the horizontal posture. Should the aperture not contract, though there is no protrusion of the intestine, it may be concluded that a septum exists between the two extremities of the tube above or below the aperture ; and its situation having been ascertained by care- ful examination, the compressing instrument of Dupuytren is to be cautious]}' employed. The blades of the forceps should be at first very gently approximated, and never tightened so as to