PRINCIPLES OF SUKGEKY. 418 resists division, and cannot be torn with impunity; so that the safety of the operation depends very much upon the point thus essential being dixly accomplished. Little can be done to an-est the inflammation when once excited,—but the means that pro- mise most assistance in doing so are frequent immersion of the pelvis in a hip-bath, and opiate injections. Peritonitis very seldom follows the lateral operation of litho- tomy ; but if it should occur, it will appear within twenty-four or forty-eight hours at furthest, and may be recognised by the tenderness of the abdomen to pressure, the small wiry pulse, and cadaverous appearance of the patient. Free depletion, both local and general, warm fomentations, and the warm bath, will be the proper remedies. A communication between the rectum and wound occasions, in the first instance, little inconvenience; but as the cure ad- vances, and the orifice of the wound contracts, the contents of the gut, whether gaseous or liquid, instead of escaping through it, are forced into the urethra, and issue from the penis, while part of the urine descends into the rectum. The only chance of remedy for this disagreeable occurrence is to divide the septum that Hes between the external orifice of the wound, and its communication with the gut; but this should not be done im- mediately after the operation, as it has . happened that the woimd of the intestine, when of small extent, occasioned no trouble, and healed by the first intention. "When the various obstacles to success that have been men- tioned, together with the adverse influence. of disease in the Iddney, which is sometimes associated with stone in the bladder, and also the dangerous consequences common to all severe operations, are taken into account, it will appear obvious, that, however perfect the principles on which the operation is performed, and skilful its execution, the patient's recovery can- not be regarded as by any means certain. A succession of for- tunate cases often leads an operator. to flatter himself with a belief of liis own infallibility, but sooner or later he meets with reverses; and it appears that the average of successful practice