PRINCIPLES OF SURGKRY. 384 patient is subjected to irritation, whether general or local, and diminishes in opposite circumstances. A very distressing and not unfrcquent consequence of stric- ture in the urethra is abscess, followed by fistula of the perineum. The canal is always much dilated behind the contracted part, and sometimes suffers perforation from ulcerative absorption, so as to allow the urine to enter the cellular substance. But in- stead of being formed by this process, the abscess is much more frequently called into existence merely by the irritation result- ing from the stricture, which excites inflammation and suppura- tion in the cellular substance, or glands adjacent. In either case the result is the same ; and a sinus is formed, leading from the urethra, generally the membranous part of it, to the surface of the perineum. The urine, in a larger or smaller propoi'tion, passes through this preternatural canal, the parietes of which, owing to the continued irritation thus produced, become thick and hardened, so as to resemble cartilage. The urethra be- comes more and more contracted,—new abscesses are formed,— the number of sinuses is increased,—and at length the whole perineum is perforated with openings, which discharge pus mixed with urine, and the seminal fluid also if it happens to be ejected ; while all the neighbouring parts are not only thickened and in- durated, but almost constantly inflamed, and engaged in the formation of abscesses. The treatment of stricture, until lately, has been conducted chiefly through means of Caustic, Internal incision, and Dilata- tion. Caustic has had the support of many powerful advocates. Wiseman proposed it so long ago as in his day, under the sup- position that the disease depended on the growth of fleshy ex- crescences from the inner surface of the urethra. John Hunter recommended it for destroying the callous contracted state of the canal, which he more correctly regarded as the cause of ob- struction. Sir E. Home, LaUemand, and other surgeons of recent times, have earnestly supported it by their practice and writings. But from having been generally employed, it has now, in this country at least, fallen almost entirely out of use, which is not