SUPPURATION. 61 Siiperficial Suppiiration. Superficial suppuration is that which takes place from the surface of the mucous membranes, as the urethra or conjunctiva. It was not admitted by the older surgeons, who accounted for the discharge in such cases either by calling it mucus, or by referring it to some solution of continuity out of sight. Purulent discharge fi'om a surface, or a running, as it is gene- rally named, is in the first instance accompanied with symptoms of the inflammatory action which preceded it, particularly heat and redness, which require measures of a soothing kind, such as bleeding, purging, warm fomentations, etc. By and by these subside, and the discharge alone continues, when the treatment must be altered to the use of stimulating and astringent appli- cations, such as metallic washes, ointments, etc. Interstitial Suppuration. When suppuration takes place within the texture of the body, there results a collection of pus, which is named an Ab- scess. The matter sometimes is diffused through the interstices of the cellular texture; bu.t more frequently is contained in a circumscribed cavity, which is limited by the effusion of lymph, forming a sort of capsule or containing bag. When inflammation terminates in the formation of an ab- scess, the pain loses its intensity, and changes to a throbbing sensation. The tension also diminishes, but the swelling does not subside; on the contrary, it rather becomes more prominent; and when pressed upon by the fingers gives the feeling of a fluid contained in a bag, which is called Fluctuation. The particles of a fluid being equally movable in all directions, when pressure is made at one part, an impulse is necessarily communicated over the whole surface ; and if the fingers be placed at different points, the extent of the cavity may be ascertained. Wlien the collection of matter is small, or thickly covered, a very nice and practised sense of touch, the tadus eruditus, is requisite for recognising fluctuation. If the abscess, on the other hand, be