PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 352 tended state of the abdomen to which, females are liable from pregnancy; and many of the femoral hernias which occur in practice are accordingly referred to the violent expulsive efforts of parturition. The ileum and omentum are the parts usually protruded. The tumour is generally of a small size, and some- times can be discovered only by feeling in the situation where it is suspected. On account of this circumstance, which is apt to conceal the disease from the patient, and also because females are apt to be prevented by feelings of delicacy from disclosing its existence, it is prudent on all occasions, where symptoms indica- tive of hernia are complained of, to insist upon an examination of the groins. The diagnosis of femoral hernia is often more difiicult than that of inguinal. Wlien reducible, it may be confounded with psoas abscess pointing under Poupart's ligament, and in the two other conditions of incarceration and strangulation it is fre- quently distinguished with difficulty from swelling or inflam- mation of the inguinal glands. If the tumour depends on a reducible hernia, it will disappear under moderate pressure, or by assuming the horizontal posture; but if it is owing to a collection of matter, though lessened perhajDS, it will not be entirely removable by pressure, however carefully applied, so long as the patient remains erect. From chronic swelling, or acute inflammation of the glands, it may be distinguished by the thickness and fixture of its neck—^its more smooth and globular surface—and generally by its history. If a hernia, the tumour will either have existed for a length of time previously, and given indication of its nature by some of the characteristic symp- toms, or have appeared suddenly in consequence of a violent exertion. Glandular swellings again, if chronic, will probably have had their nature ascertained, and if recent, are usually con- nected with some source of irritation that leads to their recog- nition. It is important, however, to know that the glands may become suddenly large and painful in consequence of the strain from a violent effort, in which case sickness, vomiting, .and con- stipation, are not unfrequently induced by the irritation. En-