PKINCIPLE8 OF SURGERY. 338 not do SO until long afterwards, on the occasion of another portion being suddenly forced down into the sac, or from the intestine becoming gorged with its contents. The symptoms of strangulation are a twisting burning pain referred to the umbilical region, constipation, sickness, and vomiting. The patient's coim- tenance is coUapsed, pale, and anxious. His pulse is small and feeble, his extremities are cold, and he cannot rest. The consti- pation does not depend altogether, as might be supposed, on mechanical obstruction of the bowels, since it is observed where the omentum alone is contained in the hernia, and does not always prove obstinate where the intestine is concerned. It seems to be owing chiefly to the perverted action of the gut consequent on the pressure which it suffers. At first there is little pain referred to the seat of the disease; but if the patient is not relieved, inflammation commences, and then the tumour becomes red, tense, painful, and tender to the touch. This in- flammation may extend inwards and prove fatal, like peritonitis proceeding from any other source, or it may remain confined to the protruded viscera, and, perhaps leading in the first instance to effusion of lymph, terminate in their mortification, when the patient either dies, or recovers with a preternatural opening of the gut at the groin. The time, required for the completion of this process varies extremely in its different stages. It is observed to proceed most rapidly when the patient is young and stout, and when the hernia is small and recent. It is generally more slow in opposite circumstances, but many exceptions occur, and it is never possible to predict with any precision the time that will elapse before inflammation and its consequences are induced. Mortification rarely takes place sooner than eight hours, or later than eight days after the strangulation has com- menced. The treatment of Eeducible hernia consists in the use of means proper for obviating the predisposing and exciting causes of the disease. With this view the inguinal region of the ab- dominal parietes should be strengthened by the mechanical support of a bandage. A timely use of this apparatus may