509 EYE, the most conveuient is the one distinguished as Scarpa's. It is an inch and a quarter long, and slightly curved towards the point, which is sharp. The pupil should be dilated, by the extract of belladonna rubbed over the forehead, or dropped in watery solution into the eye. The patient should be seated, or reclining in a posture perfectly horizontal. The upper eyelid must be elevated by an assistant, who, pressing on its edge with the points of his fore and middle fingers, or a levator if the patient is a child, raises without everting it. The surgeon depresses the lower eye- lid with his fore or middle finger, according to the eye operated on, and places the other at the internal angle, so as to press on the white part of the ball, which powerfully counteracts the tendency it has to roll. He then enters the point of the needle, the convex side of which is turned forwards about a line and a half distant from the cornea, a little below the transverse diameter of the eye, pushing it suddenly through the coats. Pressing the handle towards the temple, he directs the instrument forwards and inwards, between the dilated iris and edge of the lens; moves it freely in the anterior chamber, so as to satisfy himself that it has penetrated the capsule ; next places it across, so as to make its concavity correspond with a line a little above the transverse diameter of the lens, into the substance of which he fixes its point; and then, by a steady decided sweep of the hand, depresses the opaque body into the lower part of the eye- ball, so as to leave the pupil clear and black. He now disen- gages the needle from the lens by a slight rotatory motion, and, waiting a second or two to see that all is right, withdraws it. If the lens rise after being depressed, before the needle is removed, it must be again carried down, and, if it rise subsequently, the operation must be repeated, with an interval sufficiently long to prevent undue irritation. After the operation a piece of lint wet with cold water should be applied, so as to cover the eye—the patient should be confined for three or four days to a dark room and to the antiphlogistic regimen—and the signs of inflammation should be carefully watched for, so that no time may be lost in using active depletion, and the other means that may be required.