BLOOD-VESSELS. 101 local means of restraining it ouglit to be assisted by those which produce a corresponding effect on the system, such as rest, quiet, low diet, cooling purgatives, and whatever else may seem likely to moderate the force of the circulation. It has been proposed to obviate the immediately fatal effect of excessive hemorrhage, by transfusing the blood of another indi- vidual into the veins of the patient. The experience hitherto acquired on this subject is very unsatisfactory. Indeed, the profuse depletion requisite to sanction such a proceeding is gene- rally either accompanied with some incurable lesion of the system, or happens in circumstances which prevent the prepara- tions for it from being completed soon enough. The simplest and best mode of performing the operation is to fasten a bladder to the canula of a small trocar, or a small silver tube made for the purpose, with its extremity rounded and slightly curved, which being introduced into one of the veins of the arm, will transmit the blood received in the bladder, as it flows from the vein of the person who affords it, and descends into that of the patient by its own weight, or the influence of slight pressure exercised on the bag. The various ingenious and complicated apparatus, which have been contrived for effecting transfusion, are less manageable than this very simple one, which may always be constructed extemporaneously, and are objectionable on account of the extensive surface of dead matter to which they expose the blood, besides the risk of injecting air that attends their use. Anethrisvi. By the term Aneurism is understood a sac containing blood, fluid or coagulated, and communicating with the trunk of an artery. There has been much dispute as to the constitution of the aneurismal sac. Sennert, Severinus, Hildanus, Wiseman, etc., supposed that all the coats of the artery were destroyed; and that it was formed by the surrounding cellular substance alone. Fon-estus, Euysch, Diemerbrock, etc., thouglit that the arteiy was merely dilated ; while Morgagni, Lancisi, Guattani, etc.,