4G1 GENITAL ORGANS. able; sometimes proceeding rapidly to the extinction of life, by- pressing to a fatal degree on tlie vital organs of the abdomen or chest, but more frequently allowing years to elapse before coming to tliis termination. The disease commences most frequently in young females, but is met with at all periods of life. It is dis- tinguished in its advanced stage from ascites, chiefly by the his- tory of the case. The treatment by paracentesis of Ovarian Dropsy, as this affection is called, proves still less satisfactory than that of dropsy of the peritoneum, which will not excite surprise, when it is recollected that the diseased action in the latter case is simply an increased secretion, while in the former it is a new and pecu- liar formation. Purgatives, diuretics, and all other means em- ployed to promote absorption of the accumulated fluid, almost invariably prove quite unavailing; and paracentesis, though it affords some temporary relief, seems in general to hasten the progress of the disease. The operation, therefore, ought not to be performed, except when the patient is suffering great distress. Various methods of effecting a radical cure have been proposed. Of these the chief are, throwing injections into the sac, intro- ducing a seton through it, and drawing it out of the abdomen by an aperture in the parietes. The one last mentioned, though apparently the most severe, on the whole seem.s to be the most expedient in cases warranting such interference. The Ovaries are siibject to enlargements of a solid land, which not only occasion inconvenience by their size and weight, but are generally the seat of painful sensations. The structure of these tumours is generally of a complicated kind, displaying, when exposed by a section, the characters of vascular, fibrous, and cystic sarcoma, in variable proportion and distinctness. The disease is sometimes rapid in its progress, but usually slow, and often exists for years before giving much trouble. After attain- ing a certain extent, it sometimes remains stationary, and the patient becoming habituated to its presence, suffers compara- tively little inconvenience. Iodine, leeches, and other means calculated to promote absoi-ption or allay irritation, are employed