PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 46 and at length there ceases to be any difference of level between it and the surrounding parts. WhUe these changes are taking place, the extent of the breach is daily diminishing, by a general contraction of the surface. Then a fine blue pellicle is observed at the edge, which increases in breadth, and at last covers the small remnant of the ulcer that is not closed by the contraction just mentioned. This new-formed skin is named the Cicatrix ; which is, of course, smaller in extent than the original breach of continuity. At fixst it is blue or purple, and very vascular, but aftenvards it ceases to be so, and becomes dense, white, and bloodless, at the same time contracting still further. Nature of the Granulating Action. It is generally believed that the granulations grow up above each other by the effusion and organization of lymph in successive layers, until the cavity is filled to the proper level. That then the thin peUicle on the surface begins to be thickened and formed into skin at the circumference of the ulcer, while the granulations below shrink, owing to absorption of their constituent substance, and draw the edges of the breach together. There can be no doirbt, however, that this opinion rests on inaccurate observation, and is quite incorrect. The subject was carefully investigated by the French Academy of Surgeiy; and the essays of Louis, Fabre, Pibrac, etc., leave hardly anything to be desired for its elucidation. They shewed that there is never any real reproduc- tion of lost parts, with the exception of bone, which in some circumstances is regenerated. The skin also ought, perhaps, to be excepted; bnt the difference as to appearance and properties between the substance that constitutes a cicatrix, and the ordi- nary integument of the body, would rather lead us to regard this structure as a new formation. In aU other cases it will be invariably found, that when the cure is completed there either remains a depression corresponding to the loss of substance, or such a contraction of the neighbouring parts as compensates for the want. The first step in the healing of an ulcer seems to be sub-