394 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. local or constitutional cause. They tlien become gi-eatly aggra- vated, and constitute what is called a fit of the disease, during which the patient has an almost incessant desire to empty his bladder, experiences extreme pain in attempting to do so, and sometimes labours under a complete retention of urine. Con- siderable information may usually be obtained as to the exist- ence and degree of the enlargement, by examining the gland with the finger in the rectum, after a catheter or bougie has been introduced into the bladder. Unless this precaution be taken, the prostate is very apt to be thought enlarged when it is not altered in size. The cause of the disease, as might be expected, seems to be excitement of the gland, either directly or through sympathy with the neighbouring parts; and it is accordingly observed chiefly in those who indulge in venereal excesses, who use a luxurious diet, or who are exposed to the stimulating influence of a warm climate. It occurs much more frequently in persons whose circumstances expose them to the evils of sedentary habits and redundant nourishment than in the labouring poor. The treatment of enlarged prostate obviously requires the prevention, so far as possible, of all circumstances tending to promote its increase. With this view the patient should live sparingly, scrupiilously avoiding all articles of food and drink which he linows from experience to have a stimulating effect on the organs connected with the gland, take proper exercise, and preserve the bowels in an easy state by means, if necessary, of gentle laxatives or injections of mild fluids into the rectum. During the paroxysms of the disease, rest in the horizontal pos- ture, the hip-bath, leeches applied to the perineum, small doses of laudanum, or solution of the muriate of morphia, with a few drops of balsam of copaiva, opiate injections into the rectum, and a diet restricted to little more than mucilaginous drinks, are the means which prove most effectual in affording relief. Should the flow of urine not only be rendered difficult, but be altogether impeded, it may become uecessaiy to introduce the catheter. The instrument selected sliould be of a medium size and ordinary