PEINCrPLES OF SURGERY. 34 plication should be carefully avoided, while the system is at the same time protected from excitement. In the treatment of ganrjrena senilis, it was customary to prescribe large quantities of wine and spirits, with a corresponding allowance of animal jellies and other nutritious articles of diet, and to employ, under the title of hot or invigorating dressings, various articles of a stimulating nature. Under this treatment, the evil progresses ; and even the opium that is often used, in compliance with Mr. Pott's advice, fails either to afford relief from the pain, or to check the advance of the disease. It would appear, that, in this as on other occasions of deficient strength, depending upon local causes, while the power to act is lessened, the tendency to ex- citement is increased; and that, as cordials and stimulants cannot supply the vigour which is wanting, they merely increase the morbid disposition to inflammation. I have therefore ad- vised, on theoretical as well as on practical grounds, that the diet of patients labouring under this disease should be strictly of milk and farinaceous food; that they should be confined to the horizontal posture ; and that the part affected should be enveloped in a thin linseed-meal poultice of gentle temperature. The only addition to these means required, until the slough separates, is the use of muriate of morphia, in doses proportioned to the patient's sufferings. If, instead of weakness, the irritability depends on strong power of action, it ought to be lessened by bleeding, purging, tartrate of antimony, and tobacco injections. When the mortifi- \ cation is completed, the slough should be cut away so far as is practicable, without encroaching on the living parts, in order to diminish the fetor ; yeast poultices are sometimes used with this view, but they generally occasion uneasiness. The clilbride of lime or soda in solution, diluted nitrous acid, or the uru/uentum resinosum, with an equal quantity of oil Of turpentine, are less objectionable applications; but nothing answers so well as a poultice of some soft soothing substance, such as linseed meal. The extreme prostration of strength that accompanies the acute form of mortification, peremjitorily demands diligent sup-