257 JOINTS. faces deprived of it either unite together by means of a fibrous or bouy medium, or become extremely hard and perfectly smooth, so that they seem as if encrusted with porcelain. This Porce- lanous alteration of the articular surfaces, as it has been called, is far from rare in its occurrence. The corresponding bones are often grooved and ridged, so as to allow of motion in only one direction, and there is always an effusion of new osseous sub- stance around the margin of the joint, as if an attempt had been made to effect anchylosis. This condition may be regarded as a substitute for the cartilage in facilitating motion, and is observed occasionally in the new joints resulting from dislocation. K the stiffness depends on time anchylosis or osseous union, it does not admit of any remedy, but when the connection is of a fibrous kind, much may be done to increase the degree of mobility. In conducting the treatment of this disease, the fii-st object is obviously to protect the joint from all irritations tending to render the morbid action more acute, and hasten it on to sup- pm-ation. For this purpose pei'fect rest, insured by means of splints and bandages, together with strict attention to the various secretions, ought to be particularly insisted upon. The next and not less important object is to subdue the chronic inflammation, or ulcerative action, which is going forwards. With this view all sorts of coimter-irritation are in common use, but it appears that the choice of them need not be very extensive, if due regard be paid to then- effects. Issues have unquestionably most power in checking the morbid action, but the means by which they are opened is not a matter of indifference. Caustic, moxa, and the SiCtual cautery, may all be employed for the purpose, but the last-mentioned agent is infinitely preferable to the others. It is often thought that the pain which attends the opening of the issue affords all the benefit that is derived from it, and that, therefore, the moxa, which usually produces a superficial effect, should be selected. But it is well ascertained that any con- siderable amendment can in general be hardly perceived, until the discharge of the new secreting surface has been fairly estab- lished. The ulcers of burns are always very slow in healing, and s