138 PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. must be applied. When ulceration occurs in connection with it, which most frequently happens in the case of varix of the saphena, and affects the inner side of the leg a little above the ankle, the surgeon should be guided in his practice by the indi- cations of indolent or iiritated action which the ulcer may ex- hibit. If there appears not to be any obstacle to the cure on either of these accounts, he may simply use the black wash and a bandage, under which cicatrisation is in general speedily ac- complished. In order to effect a radical cure of varix, it has been proposed to obliterate the vessel above the diseased part, so as to take off the dilating effect of a superincumbent column of blood, and this has been done in various ways. . The ligature, which had been long before tried and rejected on account of the danger attending its use, was recommended by Sir Everard Home, and on his authority tried rather extensively, but with such trouble- some and even fatal consequences, as effectually prevented it from being employed in future. Sir B. Brodie revived a stUl older method—viz., obliterating the vein by incision. Instead of cutting out the varicose portion, which was the ancient practice, he merely divided the vessel, using a narrow knife, and making a small puncture of the skin. The consequences of this practice, though not so disastrous as those of the ligature, were still occasionally disagreeable enough to overbalance the chance of benefit. Another proposal was made by Mr. Mayo— viz., to make an eschar with caustic over the vein at a sound part of its course above the varix, and thus excite such inflam- mation of the vessel as might be sufficient to occasion oblitera- tion of its cavity by the effusion of lymph. This method has the recommendation of being an imitation of a natural process of cure, for it sometimes happens that the varicose vessel, in consequence of spontaneous inflammation, becomes completely impei-vious. In exciting this action artificially, however, there is great difficulty in avoiding the opposite extremes of deficient and excessive irritation, and alarming inflammation has in con- sequence been repeatedly induced. M. Velpeau has more lately