PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 158 The object of all these contrivances was to leave the soft parts sufficiently long to cover the bone ; but this they failed in accomplishing, excepting so far as concerned the skin ; for the muscles being in the first instance cut higher than the integu- ments, and subsequently becoming still more diminished in length by the unopposed effect of their contractility, could hardly be made to meet over the bone, which often protruded during the cure, and required to exfoliate or to be shortened by the saw. Tlie most simple and effectual plan for covering the bones was obviously to form one or more flaps from the part of the limb most able to supply them ; and there can be no doubt that this mode of operating would have come earlier into general use, had it not been that prejudice in favour of the circular in- cision directed the attention of practitioners to its improvement. The operation by flap was performed occasionally during the last century and a half, and recommended by various surgeons who practised it more or less extensively. Lowdham of London seems to have been the first of these (1696), and he was followed by Verduin (1697), Koenerding (1698), Sabourin (1702), and Vermale and Eavaton (1708). Towards the conclusion of last century, it was advocated by several of our countrymen in amputating the leg, of whom may be particularly mentioned Messrs. White (1760), O'Halloran (1765), Hey (1770), and Alanson (1780). The alleged advantages of this method are—1. Tliat it is lauch more quicldy performed, and consequently much less painful to the patient, than the circular incision ; 2. That it cuts the parts smoothly, and leaves them in a state favourable to union; and, 3. That it' affords a better covering for the bones than can be obtained from any modification of the other operation. The flaps may be formed by cutting obliquely inwards to the bone,—by transfixing the limb and cutting outwards,—or by first cutting inwards, so as to obtain one flap, and then outwards to form a second. The particular circumstances of the case often render one of these modes preferable to tl>e others ; but when