PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEUY. 104 breach, and it would occur as a certain consequence of the atlie- romatous alteration. Males are more subject to the disease than females, probably for the double reason that their predisiDositiuu to unsoundness of the arterial coats is stronger, and also that they are more exposed to the exciting influence of violent exer- tion, which may operate in determining the morbid degeneration of the artery concerned, as well as in directly causing the com- mencement of the aneurism. In false aneurisms none of the coats remain entire, and the sac is formed, in pari of its extent at least, merely by the sur- rounding cellular substance. They are generally of larger size and more irregxilar form than those which retain part of the arterial coats in their composition, whence also their contents are usually more completely coagulated. They are produced in two ways :—1. By the formation at once of a breach through aU the coats of the vessels together, which may be effected either by wounds or other kinds of violence, or by ulcerative absorption ; 2. By the sac of a true aneurism giving way, so as to aUow its contents to escape, and distend the cellular substance into another bag. They are therefore divided into primary and secondaiy; they ocfiur much more extensively over the arterial system than the true Idnd, since they not only result from these, but may arise from almost any artery that is wounded, and are frequently connected with vessels of inconsiderable size, such as the temporal / or radial, whUe those of spontaneous origin are limited to the larger trunlcs. It has been alleged that aneurisms may also be formed by the opening of an arteiy into the cavity of^an abscess, but without any well-authenticated facts to support such a doc- trine. Arteries lying near the surface of sinuses not unfrequently idcerate and bleed, whence it may seem lilvely that the same thing should happen wliile the cavity of the abscess remains entire. But as sound pathology rests upon weU-ascertained facts, and not upon mere probabilities or assumed analogies, the con- version of abscesses into aneurisms, so far as is known at present, must be entirely discredited. The signs of aneurism are, a tumoui', subsiding under pres-