322 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEIIY. operation. It would appear, on the whole, that the prospect of permanent recovery is not so hopeless as it has been represented, provided the operation be performed only in proper cases and in an efficient manner. Similar diseases are removed from other parts of the body, as the lip, with almost invariable success; but no surgeon thinks of cutting out a cancer of the lip if there be an affection of the glands under the chin ; and, in operating, he carries his knife wide of the morbid part, and leaves a perfectly sound surface for healing. In excision of the mamma, on the contrary, a diseased state of the axillary glands is often either totally disregarded, or coUsidered no obstacle to the operation, provided they admit of removal; and the surgeon frequently cuts close to, or perhaps at some points through, the substance of the tumour. It need not, therefore, excite any surprise, or lead to distrust in the advantage of the operation, to find that the disease frequently returns. The affection of the glands should be regarded as an objection to the operation not so much from presenting an obstacle in the way of its complete perform- ance, as from affording evidence of a tendency in the constitu- tion of the patient to take up the diseased action. The different cases of carcinomatous disease may be divided (into—1. Those where an operation is altogether improper; 2. I Those where it may be performed, but with a very unfavourable i prognosis ; and, 3. Those where it has a chance of proving per- manently successful. The first class will include cases in which I there are enlarged glands, so seated or connected that tbey can- i not be removed,—or where the skin is so extensively diseased that all the morbid portion of it cannot be taken away,—or lastly, where there is positive evidence of some other part of \ the body, as the stomach or uterus, being similarly affected, I or of some other internal disease of a serious nature, such as dropsical effusion of the chest. The second class comprehends those cases in which the glands are tainted, but within reach,^ or in which the disease is in the state of open cancer, or the I progress of the morbid process rapid,—or the patient's appear- ance unhealthy. And to the third class may be referred those