78 PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. tissue to another. As to the mode in which the morbid action is transmitted along the absorbents, there exists a difference of opinion—some thinking that matter must be conveyed through the vessels; others that the mere irritation of the disease, pro- pagated along the coats of the lymphatics, is sufficient to account for the sympathetic affection of the parts in question. The fact is certain that glands, in the course of the absorbents leading from a carcinomatous tumour, are often thoroughly tainted, though the original mass remains solid, and contains no fluid matter in its interstices. Carcinoma occurs most frequently in glandular or secreting structures, and the mamma, lips, skin, tongue, stomach, and uterus, may be mentioned as its most common seats. It seldom commences in people below middle age, aud from forty to fifty may be mentioned as its favourite time of attack; but it is occa- sionally observed in persons much younger than this, even in those who are not more than twenty or thirty. I am not aware of its having beea^ver met with bgfbre puberty. The predis- position of parts to carcinomatous action seems to be increased by their suffering chronic enlargement and induration; and the disease is generally called into existence by some irritation either direct or indirect. Of the former, blows and bruises may be mentioned as those most frequently concerned, and of the latter, suppression of habitual secretions. The cessation of the men- strual discharge, though a natural event, almost always occasions more or less disturbance of the system; and this occurring at a period of life when, other things being equal, the tendency to carcinomatous action seems to be strongest, has been thought to exert great influence in exciting the disease. The disposition to the morbid action is sometimes so strong, that it begins without any local cause, and is then apt to.occiu- in more parts of the body than one. The patient usually betrays the imJiealthy ten- dency by a peculiar greenish-yellow complexion, and anxious expression of countenance. The characteristic symptoms of carcinoma are hardness and pain. The hardness exceeds that of any natural texture, except