THOKAX. 317 of intolerable oppression to the patient, there can be no doubt as to the propriety of removing it. Fibrous Sarcoma. This tumour is not like the one last mentioned, merely an enlargement of the mammary substance, but a distinct new formation. It possesses a fibrous structure of variable density, from that of fibre cartdage to the consistence of a salivary gland; its colour is generally white, or grayish-yellow; its figure is usually round, or oval, with an irregularly-nodulated surface of a glistening appearance. When small, it is extremely movable, and seems, upon examination through the integuments, as if it could be pushed about from one part of the breast to another. As it enlarges, the gland, being subjected to pressure, suffers a progressive diminution of size, until at length so little trace of it may be left as even to require a search for its discovery. This kind of tumour is generally met with in unmarried women between the ages of twenty and forty. It grows with very different degrees of rapidity, sometimes remaining for years no larger than a walnut, and at others in the same period attaining such a size as to weigh several pounds. There is seldom much para referred to the breast affected, and when it is complained 0^ the mental uneasiness, excited by apprehension of cancer, is probably the principal cause of its production. If the tumour is small, it may be cut out to relieve the patient's anxiety; and if so large as to occasion inconvenience, its extirpation is more decidedly proper. In the former case, it is necessary to make merely a simple incision through the integuments and substance of the mamma, so as to lay open freely the capsule of condensed cellular membrane which surrounds the tumour, and loosely ad- heres to it; but in the latter, where the morbid growth, from its long standing and large size, may have induced more or less absorption of the gland, and adhesion of it to the adventitious structure, it is best to remove the whole together. In cutting tumours out of the mamma a troublesome hemorrhage may be expected, from the numerous arteiial branches which are divided ;