rniNCIPLES OF SURGERY. G8 giving the patient mucli inconvenience, but upon being opened speedily prove fatal. Sinus and Fistula. When an abscess is seated in parts of whicli tlie action is defective owing to local or general causes, the cavity that re- mains after its evacuation does not contract completely, but continues to secrete a discharge, which is generally thin and copious, and then constitutes what is called a Sinus. The surface, in course of time, becomes condensed and smooth, so as to re- semble a mucous membrane rather than the granulated covering of an ulcer—and if the discharge be copious, or any source of irritation exist, lymph is effused around the cavity so as to thicken its walls, and render them almost of cartilaginous hard- ness. In such a confirmed state, the sinus is named a Fistula; but this term is usually confined in its application to sinuses connected with the natural excretory canals, as the urethra or rectum, the contents of which, by passing through the preter- natural channel, prevent it from closing, and cause thickening of its walls. This hardening, or callosity, was formerly thought to depend on a morbid disposition of the part, and to require extir- pation as an essential step to the patient's recovery. The opera- tions practised on this principle were extremely severe, and one of the great improvements derived from the more enlightened pathology of modern surgery is their entire disuse, in this country at least. It is now found to be sufBcient for remedying the induration to remove the cause of irritation that induced it, the methods of doing which will be explained hereafter, in con- nection with the different regions of the body which are apt to become the seat of fistula. In treating sinuses, the objects are to promote granulating action on their surface, and to press their sides together. They are not healed by filling up any more than the original cavity of the abscess, but contract untU they become obliterated, or close more directly by union of the opposite surfaces. Great care must be taken to avoid confining the discharge of