PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 302 opinion he may be led to adopt by tbe seeming mobility of the growth, owing to the flexibility of its substance. Bronchocele is observed to abound chiefly in certain districts, which are mostly of a mountainous Idnd, where it may be associated with mental imbecility. The frequency of bronchocele in such regions has not yet been satisfactorily explained. It has been attributed to the use of snow-water, the violent exertions required by the in- habitants in cKmbing precipitous paths, which, it has been alleged, must expose them to frequent venous congestion, and to the prevalence of a damp atmosphere, in the misty valleys and ravines, which has been supposed likely to promote the growth of glandular swellings. In the countries where the disease is not endemic, it is almost entirely confined to females, generally commencing in youth or before middle age, and affecting chiefly the labouring classes. The symptoms of bronchocele are swelling in the situation of the thyroid gland, which follows the motions of the larynx during deglutition, and cannot be moved without a corresponding dis- placement of it. There is seldom much obstruction either, of breathing or swallowing, owing to the resistance which is made by the cartilaginous structure of the air-passages, and the protection from pressure which the trachea affords to the oeso- phagus. Headache, however, not uufrequently results from the obstruction which the blood meets with in returning from the head through the jugular veins; and the patient occasionally complains of more or less uneasiness in the tumour itself. But, for the most part, the principal inconvenience sustained depends simply upon the bulk and weight of the enlargement; and after attaining a certain size, it usually ceases to increase. The deep situation, muscular coverings, firm connections, and large blood-vessels of bronchocele forbid excision; and the attempts which have been made with this view afford a sufficient warning against their repetition, by the fatal issue that has almost invariably, and often immediately, foUowed them. The ligature of the superior thyroid arteries, which, though previously proposed by others, was first executed by Sir W. Blizard, does