PKINCIPLES OF BUKGERY. 406 view is named Sounding, and is executed by means of metallic instruments variously formed. The one tliat will generally be found most convenient is a steel bougie of the size usually rated No. 7 or 8. It should be moved about methodically into eveiy part of the bladder, while the patient lies reclining. If the point grazes against the rugse of a thickened muscular coat, an inexpe- rienced surgeon may be misled into supposing that there is a stone; but if it really encounters one, there will hardly be a possibility of misinterpreting the distinct sensation which is always felt, and the corresponding sound generally heard at the same time. A small stone may escape detection, from the bladder being too much distended or. too much collapsed; and when either of these sources of fallacy is suspected, a catheter should be introduced to draw off the water, or convey in a suffi- cient quantity from a syringe or elastic bag. If the parts about the neck of the bladder are very irritable, and grasp the sound- ing instrument tightly, soothing measures, such as gentle evacua- tion of the bowels by castor-oil, opiate injections into the rectum, and the warm-bath, ought to be employed. When the prostate ;has suffered enlargement, a sort of pouch is generally formed behind it, in which the stone may Lie so as to be hardly tangible by the sound, unless placed more within its reach, by altering the position of the patient, or elevating the bladder by a finger introduced into the rectum. The treatment of stone in the bladder may be ^divided into palliative and radical. The former consists in the use of means which tend to prevent the concretion from increasing, and to alleviate the patient's sufferings; the latter, by removing tlae calculus, affords effectual relief from all the uneasiness of the disease. The means used with a palliative \dew are such as may be expected to correct derangement of the urinary secretion, and thus not only remove that excess of acid, or saline constituents, which is essential for the occurrence of concretion, but also diminish the severity of the symptoms resulting from the cal- culus actually existing, since these, as has been already observed,