PELVIS, 393 coma, and, though often named scirrhus, has none of the charac' ters of carcinomatous formations except an approach to their hardness. The tumour is dense and fibrous, possesses little sen- sibility, is not disposed to any morbid action except its own nutrition, and, though the cause of uneasiness by its pressure on the neighbouring parts, is hardly ever itself the seat of much pain. The gland seldom enlarges equally, generally exceeding in one of the lateral lobes, and not unfrequently sending a round process upwards, encroaching on the cavity of the bladder, im- mediately behind its neck. Sir E. Home accounted for this marked limitation of the growth to one part of the gland, by attributing it to the existence of a distinct middle lobe of the prostate ; but in a healthy state of the part it is dijB&cult to dis- cern any trace of such a structure. Whatever be the true ex- planation of the fact, it is an important one in several points of view. Enlargement of the prostate, whether partial or general, does not necessarily or usually diminish the width of the urethra, but alters the direction of the canal so as to impede more or less the passage of the urine. When the whole gland swells, the neck of the bladder is of course elevated in a proportional degree, and the course of the urethra consequently rendered not only longer but more curved than natural. If one of the lateral lobes is more enlarged than the other, it gives the canal a bend to' pne side, and if the tumour is confined to the upper surface of the gland, within the orifice of the bladder, though the urethra cannot suffer any change, the excretion of urine may be con- siderably impeded. The symptoms of enlarged prostate are—1. A feeling of weight and uneasiness in the lower part of the pelvis ; 2. Pain and difficulty in evacuating the bowels ; 3. Frequent and slow micturition ; 4. A copious discharge of mucus with the urine, at the bottom of which it remains separate, forming a glairy mass that adheres to the vessel when the water is poured out; 5. A fetid ammoniacal smell of the urine. These symptoms, though in general always distinguishable, are seldom very well marked, except when the uriuaiy organs suffer irritation from a