221 BONES. of the cystic tumour, it may be regarded as free from any malig- nant action; but tbis morbid structure sometimes changes into medullary sarcoma. The best mode of treatment is early and free removal of the bone affected, if puncturing the tumour, or laying it open by free incision, has not the effect of curing the disease. Rachitis or Rickets. By Rickets is imderstood a morbid state of the osseous system, in which the bones are soft and flexible, being converted into a substance more like leather than bone; having a brown colour and cartilaginous consistence, with no appearance of marrow, but numerous irregularly circular and oval cells, even in the parts naturally most compact, contaming a brownish-red fluid. The disease does not directly cause pain, but occasions great inconvenience by allowing the bones to bend under the weight of the body, and contraction of the muscles. It is accompanied with weakness and derangement of the whole system, the symptoms of which are a pale and sickly counten- ance, tumid abdomen, flabbiness of the miiscles, and unhealthy evacuations. The earliest perceptible alteration of the bones is at the wrists, where the extremities of the radius and iilna be- come preternaturally large, and are apt to excite the suspicion of fracture. It is confined to the period of childhood, and seldom begins later than the second or third year of age. It affects chiefly the offspring of young or unhealthy parents, and occurs most frecLuently in cold moist climates. It terminates either in death or in a return to health, after months or years of duration. Contrary to what might be expected, rickety bones are readily broken by slight degrees of violence, and their re- paration in such cases is effected chiefly by cartilage. Wlaen the bones regain their healthy nutritive action, they become as hard and unyielding as usual, retaining, however, the curva- tures which have taken place during the softened state. The new osseoi;s substance which is deposited during their subse- quent growth, occupies chiefly the concave side of the arches into which they are bent, where it has most effect in strengthening