123 BLOOD-VESSELS. high and running superficially, they very much resemble. If either of these disagreeable accidents were to occur, strong pres- sure should be exercised over the wound—a bandage being ap- plied tightly from the fingers upwards to support the arm in bearing it. If one of the smaller arteries is concerned, this treat- ment will probably prevent the formation of an aneurism, and if the trunk of the humeral itself is wounded, though the chance of its doing so will be much less, there is stiU room for hope. Even after an aneurism has formed in this situation, the treat- ment by rest and pressure of the whole limb, sometimes effects the cure, and therefore a trial should be made of these means. If they fail, it then becomes necessary to resort to the ligature, and it ought always to be applied, here as elsewhere, in the case of a wounded artery tqjtlig^v^ssel actually injured, and not to the trunk from which it proceeds. The best way of proceeding is to lay the sac fairly open—to evacuate its contents—and then to apply a couple of ligatures, one above, and the other below the opening. Should it ever be thought necessary to tie the humeral above the elbow, the operation may be performed by making an in- cision two inches and a half in length along the inner edge of the biceps muscle. The artery will be found lying on the radial side of the median nerve, strictly connected with its wnce comites, and covered by the humeral vein. When the arteries of the fore-arm happen to be wounded, they ought to be tied at the injured part. The radial is found in the first muscular interspace next the radius, and the ulnar in the first muscular interspace next the ulna. Wounds of the hands and wrist are frequently attended with profuse hemorrhage, for which the humeral artery is sometimes tied. But the fact of this operation checking the bleeding, proves that the case did not require it, since, if the hemorrhagic ten- dency were strong, it could not be subdued by a ligature so far distant from the wound, and with so many branches intervening. In all these cases, pressure, if properly applied, will be found perfectly sufficient for the purpose.