455 GENITAL OEGANS. the corrugating effects of the contractility of the scrotum, excited by the iiiitation of the operation, might, in the first instance, make it appear that no inconvenience was likely to result, the redimdant integument would certainly, so soon as it became relaxed, afford an ample receptacle for the accumulation of blood or pus, and present a very extensive granulating surface, that must greatly prolong the cure. Keeping these different con- siderations in view, the sui-geon should endeavour to preserve merely enough of the integuments to allow the edges of the woimd to be brought together, without either straining or laxity. In regard to the hemorrhage, great apprehension has been enter- tained lest the cord should be retracted by the cremaster muscle, and the artery withdrawn beyond reach of the ligature. This has led to many coarse and dangerous expedients, such as tying the whole cord previou.s to its division, or including all its vessels together except the vas deferens. Violent pain, fever, inflammation, convulsions, and even death, were the conse- quences of this practice, which is now abandoned, the artery being tied alone ; but the fear of retraction stiU excites imeasi- ness during the operation. It, therefore, seems necessary to remark, that, as the cremaster muscle is attached very near the external ring, it cannot withdraw the cord except to a very small extent, and that, if the artery retires at all, it must do so in con- . sequence of its own elasticity. Eetraction on this account may be expected in proportion to the size of the tumour, the rapidity of its growth, and the nearness to the external ring, of the point at which the cord is divided. In no case, however, ■svill it be necessary to use any force in retaining the vessel, and the assistant may readily secure it either between the nails of his thimib and fore-finger, or with forceps. Besides the sper- matic artery, there are always several, and sometimes so many as seven or eight vessels coming from the groin and perineum, that require to be tied. Such being the principles to be followed in performing the operation, it may now be right to explain succinctly the mode of proceeding. The patient should be laid reclining on a table or