513 EYE. protrudes, sometimes remaining entire, at other times ulcerating, and allowing a fungus to issue. The patient becomes weak and emaciated, loses appetite, and acquires the greenish-yellow com- plexion characteristic of malignant action. The disease varies in the time required for its course from months to years, being usually most rapid in young, and slow in adult persons, but always terminates fatally. The only remedy that affords any chance of relief, is excision of the eye before the morbid process has advanced so far as to render the removal of the whole tumour impracticable, and even then the prospect of a permanent cure is extremely unfavourable, as there is hardly any well-authenticated case of its being accom- plished. In performing the operation, the commissure of the eyelids at the outer angle should be divided in order to gain more room, to dissect out the tumour with a knife or scissors, guided on the fore-finger of the left hand, which being inter- posed between the morbid surface and the edge of the instru- ment, insures the complete excision of the diseased mass. The orbit should be filled, but not stuffed, with lint; and, if the blood continues to flow, cloths wet with cold water may be applied over the face. When suppuration commences, the lint ought to be withdrawn, and replaced by a little simple dressing. The cavity granulates and contracts, but the cure is tedious, and too frequently, before cicatrization is far advanced, the morbid growth reappears. The eyeball is now frequently removed, not in cases of ma- lignant disease, but merely on account of the organ being unfit for vision, and unseemly in appearance—the perfection to wliich artificial substitutes has been brought rendering their employ- ment gi'eatly preferable to such a condition. For this purpose, by means of scissors and forceps, the conjunctiva should be separated round the cornea, so as to expose the tendinous attach- ments, which are divided close to the sclerotic, and the optic nerve being lastly cut through, the eyeball is removed without any further disturbance of the orbit. The conjunctiva thus pre- served covers the sort of cup that remains, and the healing pro- 2 L