PRINCIPLES OP SUKGERY. 62 very large, simple percussion at one point is sufficient to detect it, Wlieu the suppuration is extensive, or seated in any im- portant region of the body, such as the joints or cavities of the trunk, its commencement and progress are usually attended with rigors of various degrees and duration. It has been questioned whether or not suppuration may occur without being preceded by inflammation. There can be no doubt that the symptoms of over-action previously are often very slight, and they probably ought not to be regarded as essential; but in the great majority of cases, suppuration certainly is a consequence of inflammation. The contents of an abscess may be removed by the powers of the system in two ways. They are sometimes simply absorbed into the mass of circulating fluids. This happens most fre- quently in the case of abscesses connected with the periosteum and lymphatic glands, as those of the groin ; and it is worthy of notice, tliat, when such absorption takes place, no bad symptoms follow. It is now generally believed, that when pus is formed within reach of the cavities of vessels, as in a recent wound where the effusion of lymph is imperfect, or within the interior of veins, so that it may enter the circulation without passing tlu'ough the modifying operation of the capillaries —a portion is apt to gain admission, and, preserving its characters so as to be distinguishable by the microscope, become the source of purulent deposits in other parts of the body. Another, and in my opinion much more probable explanation of such secondary purulent de- posits, as they are called, is, that, in certain local suppurations, the whole mass of circulating blood sustains an alteration in its condition predisposing it to secrete pus; just as during inflam- matory fevers, while lymph is thrown out from the capillaries, it separates more readily than usual from the blood during coagu- lation, and presents the buffy coat. As the globules of the blood and pus differ but slightly from each other, it is easy to conceive that some slight change, attending tliis morbid condition, may occasion the appearance which has been thought to denote the presence of pus in the blood. Much more frequently the pressure