BONES. 225 when weakened by the destruction of bone and intervertebral cartilage which attends the suppuration. The curvature in this case takes place forwards, and being confined to a small extent of jthe spine, causes an acute projection behind, so that one or more jof the spinous processes appear to be dislocated backwards. This {change of shape does not take place, either when the extent of the disease is small in proportion to the size of the bones in which it is seated, or when it is so great that the patient is con- stantly confined to the horizontal posture; but these ckcum- stances are comparatively rare in proportion to those which favour the occurrence of curvature. If the morbid action ceases before suppuration, the bones affected unite with a degree of approximation proportioned to the amount of absorption which they have sufiered ; and if suppuration does take place, the sur- face of the abscess either heals with approximation and consoli- dation of its parietes—^the vertebree concerned appearing as if run into one mass—or a state of caries remains, and gradually wears out the patient's strength. This disease may occur at any period of life, but is by far C^' most common in children from two to eight years of age. In adults it generally occupies a small part of the bone, and proves extremely obstinate, or rather always incurable, at least with such few exceptions as hardly deserve to be mentioned. In childhood it usually engages the whole substance of two or three adjoining bodies of the vertebrae, which on dissection are found almost entirely wasted away, together with the intervertebral . substance, portions of dead bone and pus occupying the cavity. The disease is usually ascribed to twists or blows; but as these injuries are seldom thought of until long after they are alleged to have been received, and not before the symptoms attract attention, there is some reason to discredit their effect in exciting the morbid action. In children there is reason to believe that the first step of the morbid process is usually the deposition of scrofulous substance. It would seem that in adults the disease is liable to be excited by sexual excesses. In conducting the treatment of this acute curvature, as it is Q