PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 41G 2. Hemorrhage ; 3. Infiltration of urine ; 4. Inflammation at tlu; neck of the bladder ; 5. Peritonitis ; 6. Eecto-vesical fistula. Unless the patient is extremely weak from the exhaustion of disease, or the feebleness of his age, as when it is below two, or beyond seventy years, there is no risk of his sinking directly under the effects of the irritation attending the operation, if pro- perly performed. But if, from the inadequate size of the wound in the bladder or levator ani, the stone, instead of being gently extricated, is dragged out by force, after long and painful ineffec- tual attempts to draw it through, the stoutest individual may suffer a shock too great for liis strength, and die in the course of a few hours, as if suffering from profuse hemorrhage, an extensive burn, or any other injury destructive to the powers of life. If the vessels are regularly distributed, and the surgeon cuts no more than he ought to do, there is hardly any fear of a fatal or even troublesome bleeding. Should the dorsal artery of the penis rise from the pudic high in the pelvis, and take the course which it has been obsei'ved to follow in some few cases along the neck of the bladder, and obHquely across tlie lateral lobe of the prostate, it can hardly escape division during the perform- ance of the operation Avhich has been described. The coincid- ence of such an irregularity with stone in the bladder must be extremely rare; and the danger of hemorrhage from this source so small as to afford little reason for apprehension, though instances of it have occurred. When the flow of blood appears alarming, the surgeon should introduce his finger into the wound, and press the pudic against the ramus of the ischium. He will then ascei-tain whether the hemorrhage proceeds from it or its branches given off below, in either of which cases a ligature may be applied by means of a tenaculum, the sides of the wound being held aside, and the source of the bleeding, if necessary, exposed to view more completely by further iaicisious. If the hemorrhage is found to proceed, not from the trunk of the pudic, the artery of the bulb, or that of the perineum, it must be referred to the neighbourhood of the prostate, and all