EYE. 497 the cornea, and may even evert the eyelids. The chronic condition almost always remains as a consequence of the acute one, and when it exists independently of this origin, generally, proceeds from some chronic source of irritation, either direct or indirect, as inversion of the eye-lashes, or derangement of the digestive organs. The treatment requires, in the first place, that the eye should be relieved and protected from all sources of irritation. Foreign bodies, if suspected, must be searched for and removed, the eye- lids, if necessary, being everted, so as to bring the whole extent of their miicous surface into view. Workmen employed in forg- ing or gTinding iron are exposed to the entrance of small sparks from the metal into the eye, where they generally fix themselves in the conjunctival lining of the cornea, and, unless speedily wiped oflP, are apt to become imbedded in its substance, where, being extremely small, they may remain a long while, j)roducing rritation without being discovered. The light of the patient's room should be obscured, and he ought to abstain from all attempts to use the organ. Free evacuation of the bowels by mercurial or saline purgatives, leeches applied to the neighbour- hood of the eye, and warm fomentations frequently repeated, are the means of most use. If fever exists, general bleeding, in sufficient quantity to produce a decided effect on the system, should be employed. The blood may be taken either from the arm or temporal artery, but seems to be abstracted most bene- ficially in the former mode. When the chemosis is so great as to impede the closing of the eyelids, some portions of the distended membrane may be cut off with scissors, which relieves the dis- tension, and tends also to subdue the inflammatory action. After the intensity of the symptoms has been subdued, and they assume the chronic character, or if they appear in this form from the commencement of the attack, decided benefit is usually derived from introducing into the eye, once a day, a dilute solu- tion of the nitrate of silver. The vinous solution and tincture of opium, with various other stimulating and astringent applica- tions, have been employed at this .stage of the disease, but the 2 K