BLOOD-VESSELS. 105 sure, and returning when relieved from it with a whizzing noise and thrilling feel; pulsation, or rather a forcible distending throbbing ; feebleness of the pulse, coldness, numbness, and weakness of the parts beyond the disease, with cedematous swelling and pain, owing to pressure on the veins and nerves, j When the aneiuism is internal, these indications cannot always be recognised ; but there are then generally others presented by the derangement of the function, which is caused by the pre- sence of the tvimour impeding the action of neighbouring organs. These, however, are often not distinct, and at the same time are apt to be mistaken for the signs of other affections. The com- pressibihty and pulsation of the tumour are the grand distin- guishing characters of aneurism. They are most distinct when all the coats remain entire, because then the contents of the sac generally continiie fluid ; they are nsually well marked so long as the external coat does not give way; but in false aneurisms, especially those of old standing, where the cavity is of large size and irregular figure, they are often very obscure, or altogether unobservable, owing to the extent of coagulation which is apt to occur in such circumstances. The pulsatory movement commu- nicated to solid tumours by large arteries lying under them, is sometimes mistaken for the pulsation of an aneurism. This error wiU. be avoided by recollecting, that in aneurism there is a general and forcible expansion of the whole sac, which can be perceived as distinctly when the tumour is embraced laterally as when the hand is placed upon it, while the deceitful impulse communicated by an artery to a tumour seated over it is merely a faint heaving upwards, which can be felt only when the sur- geon presses in the direction of the vessel. The natural course of aneurism is to grow larger and larger, to change from the constitution of the true into that of the false kind, and then to terminate in one of the following modes:.— 1. The contents coagulate, and are absorbed with, or without, obliteration of the vessel; 2. The artery becomes obstructed from coagulation or the effusion of lymph, and ulcerative absorp- tion of the paiietes of the tumour allows its contents to escape ;