ABDOMEN. 327 beiug pressed within the external orifice of the wound. 1 once successfully reduced a mass of omentum of the size of a walnut, that lay in an oblique wound, of which the inner aperture was not larger than a small quill. The edges of the wound ought then to be stitched together with the interrupted suture, and the patient must afterwards be diligently protected from all sources of excitement. A milk diet, and moderate depletion, may be employed as preventives of inflammation; and should symptoms of it actually appear, leeching, together with warm fomentations of the abdomen, and the internal administration of calomel with opium, are to be employed without loss of time, since the safety of the patient will depend in a great measure on the activity and decision with which these means are used. During the first twenty-four hours, therefore, the surgeon should be constantly on the watch for increase in the frequency or hardness of the pulse, anxiety of the countenance, and tenderness of the abdomen to pressure. Should there be no positive evidence of the wound actually penetrating the peritoneum, as from protrusion. of the viscera, it ought to be treated with the same attention as if there were,—since it is much better to run the risk of being too careful, than to fall into the opposite error of not being sufficiently so. And it would be highly improper to decide the question by probing, as, in case of the wound penetrating, this must neces- sarily increase the danger of inflammation. "When the intestine is woimded, the injury must be regarded as still more serious, and likely to be followed by the worst consequences. The reason of this will appear from the fact, that whenever the contents of the bowels are effused over the surface of the peritoneum, death is the invariable, and, in general, very speedy result. "When this extravasation occurs in consequence of disease, the effect is the same, unless the ulcerative process, that forms the breach in the intestine, is preceded by or accom- pam'ed with such an effusion of lymph as to limit the extent of the mischief, and confine the extravasation within the bounds of an abscess. It is not easy to understand how the intestinal matters operate thus fatally on the system, when they escap^