359 ABDOMEN. of them the strangulation is caused by the constriction of some preternatural adhesion or band, which has resulted from inflammation taking place within the abdominal cavity. On such occasions, interference, though occasionally attempted, does not seem warrantable, on account of the obscurity which must prevent the diagnosis from ever being quite certain, the difficulty of disentangling the intestine—often a tedious and operose pro- cess, even in the dead body—and the extreme danger resulting from such exposure, handling, and cutting of the viscera. Even in circumstances apparently the most desperate, the chance of spontaneous recovery must exceed that of escape from the effects of an operation attended with so much risk and so little promise of success. In the other form of the disease, which may more correctly be denominated Internal Hernia, the case is very different, the seat of constriction being the neck of a sac, which may be dis- tinctly recognised and is safely accessible. This sac is formed by protrusion of the peritoneum through one of the apertures of the abdominal parietes, which constitute the ordinary seat of hernia, more especially that of the inguinal canal, and produces the effect in question by having been reduced into the abdomen together with the portion of intestine contained in it. In one case that came under my care, the sac had not been protruded for many months previous to the symptoms of strangulation, and therefore may perhaps have for some time existed in an empty state. But in general this condition takes place during the period of strangulation, and is effected by external pressure employed for the taxis. The diagnosis is therefore rendered distinct by the symptoms persisting after the tumour disappears, and may usually be confirmed by carefully examining the seat of protrusion, where a sense of fulness or resistance is perceived when pressure is made over the internal tumour. When the history of the case and the existing sjonptoms afford ground for believing that the sac has been reduced, together with its strangulated contents, no time should be lost in affording relief. For this purpose, a free incision having been