INFLAMMATION. 7 feeble, and ii-regiilar or intermittent,—the tongue brown, smooth, and glazed,—the countenance dark-coloured, contracted, and anxious. These varieties in the symptoms of fever demand great attention, as indications of the seat and degree of the local disorder, and as guides for directing the remedial measures. The state of the blood, also, in this condition, requires particular consideration. When blood is taken from one labouring under inflammatory- fever, instead of coagulating as usual into a homogeneous red tremulous mass, it throws up to the surface a clear transparent fluid, which coagulates into an opaque buff-coloured, tough, membranous-looking crust, which is named the buffy coat. It is usually about a quarter of an inch thick, and presents a concave siuface, owing apparently to preserving its original extent, while the subjacent part of the clot contracts during the separation of the serum. Whatever hastens the coagulation of the blood tends to prevent the formation of the buffy coat. Thus weakness of the individual,—smallness in the quantity of blood abstracted,— exposure of it to an extensive surface of dead matter,—and its being abstracted in a small stream or by drops, all oppose the appearance in question. The formation of the buffy coat has therefore been supposed to depend merely upon slowness of coagulation, allov/ing the red j)articles to descend, and leave the fibrinous portion pure; but there is certainly something more than this concerned in the process, since the tough yellow crust under consideration differs materially in appearance from the fibrinous mass which is obtained by washing away the colouring matter of healthy coagnlated blood, and when the disposition to its production is strong, it takes place notwithstanding the most rapid coagulation ; while blood drawn from an animal in health may be retained for a long time fluid, without shewing any trace of it. The constituent proportion of fibrine seems to be actually increased, and there is a preternatural tendency to its separation from the blood, both while it circulates in the vessels, and after it is withdrawn from the body. The buffy coat, though very generally, is not invariably, observed during inflammatory fever ;