GENITAL ORGANS. 429 different parts. The absorbent vessels of the penis, the glands of the groin, and the testicle, are apt to inflame ; abscesses form exterior to the urethra; the prostate and bladder participate in the diseased action; and various important consequences thus ensue, which will be particularly considered hereafter. The primary and essential morbid action is confined to the extremity of the urethra, from its orifice to the distance of an inch back- wards. The treatment requires, in the first place, purgation, and the antiphlogistic regimen, to moderate the inflammation, and allay the fever. The patient at the same time should drink freely of dUuent mucUaginous fluids, such as rice-water, or linseed tea, and foment the penis frequently with warm water. When the intensity of the disease has been subdued, internal and external means may be employed to stop the discharge. Of the former, the balsam of copaiva and cubeb pepper are the most powerful; and they act much more certainly when administered in sub- stance, than when their virtues are attempted to be concentrated by decomposition into extracts or essences. As the copaiva is not only extremely nauseous, but apt to excite sickness, vomit- ing, and great general tmeasiness, it must be given cautiously, in small doses, combined with camphorated mixture, spirit of nitrous ether, or some such vehicle, and a little laudanum or muriate of morphia. The cubebs may be given more freely, either along with the mixture just mentioned or alone. One or two drachms may be prescribed two, three, or four times a day, either alone or together with the balsam; but in general I believe it is better to abstain entirely from the use of internal remedies, and trust entirely to local means. These are injections of astringent fluids into the urethra. For this purpose the solu- tions of alum and several metallic salts, as the sulphates of zinc and copper, the acetates of lead and zinc, and the nitrate of silver, are chiefly employed. No injections should ever be employed untU the symptoms of acute inflammation have been subdued ; and even then, if the patient has an irritable constitution, they ought to be prescribed with extreme caution. Not more than a