PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. 184 in forming the new bone. Osseous union consequently seldom, or almost never, takes place ; and there is formed merely a sort of ligamentous connection, varying from a few lines to several inches in extent. The treatment ought always to be conducted, however, as if a complete cure were practicable, so that the flexible medium of connection may be rendered as short as possible. With this view, the limb ought to be laid out not only straight, but also somewhat elevated by a pillow, to relax the pelvic extremity of the rectus muscle. A wooden spHut having been placed imder the knee, a single circular turn of a roller should be applied above, and another below, the portions of the bone, the broken surfaces of which may then be di-awn very nearly into contact by tying two longitudinal bands introduced under the circular ones, alongside of the pateUa. A more effectual apparatus consists of two pieces of leather, three or four inches broad, and long enough to surround the limb above and below the patella ; they are provided with straps and buckles for rendering them tight and drawing them together, and then- respective edges are cut out in front to receive the bone. Some discutient lotion to promote absorption of the effused fluid may be employed if necessary. Wlien the fracture is longitudinal, little or no displacement occurs; and all the treatment required consists of lateral com- presses with a bandage. In this fracture the imion is osseous, because most of the adverse circumstances which operate against bony union in the former case are absent. The thigh-bone, notwithstanding its great strength, is very frequently broken, sometimes by direct violence, but more commonly by the strain which happens in falling, particularly on the side. In adults, it usually gives way at the lower third ; in children, at or above the middle; and in old people, at the neck or trochanters. When the shaft is broken, the symptoms are those generally characteristic of fracture, and, in particular, more or less shortening of the thigh, according to the degree of obliquity of the surfaces of the bones, the lower extremity being almost always drawn up beliind the superior one, together with