PELVIS. 409 Tlie second mode of removing a stone from the bladder con- sists in grinding it down to powder, or piects small enough for escaping by the natural passage. Though there are very ancient traces of this practice, and though in modern times ingenious patients have occasionally, by persevering efforts, succeeded in bringing away part, if not the whole, of calculi from which they suffered, yet Lithotrity, as this method of operating has been named, may be regarded as of recent origin. The apparatus was necessarily very inefficient and unmanageable so long as the canula through which it was introduced into the bladder had a curved form. Some anatomists of the last century suggested that a straight instrument might be passed along the urethra; but Dr. Gruithuisen (1813) first used a straight catheter. The contrivance of this gentleman, followed by the successive im- provements of Amussat, Leroy, Civiale, and Heurteloup, rendered the lithotritic apparatus woxiderfully perfect. It consisted of a straight canula, containing another of steel, the extremity of which was cleft into three branches, that expanded by their own elasticity when pushed beyond the external tube, and closed upon being drawn ^vithin it. This internal canula in its turn enclosed a solid rod of steel, terminating in a head so figured as to act destructively on a stone submitted to its rotatory motion. At the other extremity of this apparatus there were additional parts for preventing the escape of the urine, without impeding the motion of the canulas or perforator, and for attaching the string of a drill bow. When the stone was large, a compound perforator could be employed, having a movable branch at its extremity, that might be separated to more or less distance from the central position by a regulating screw at the other end, and excavate the stone to an extent corresponding with the degree of its expansion. The thin shell thus formed was broken by an- other instrument, named hriscrcoqiie, which consisted of an instru- ment shaped like a slightly curved Sound, and having its ex- tremity formed into strong jaws, which were made to separate and embrace the stone, which was then crushed by the blows of a hammer or the force of a screw. The latter apparatus has