279 MUSCLES. me greatly preferable to any such uncertain and dangerous artifices. I have always, with the exception of some experi- mental trials in the early part of my experience, performed the operation in this way, with some little modification, and will now describe the mode of conducting it. The assistant should separate the eyelids by means of a speculum, and keep the eyeball everted by double-pointed hooked forceps. The first step is to raise a fold of the conjunctiva by means of the forceps applied close to the caruncle, and with the scissors cut it in a vertical direction to the extent of about half ah inch in the middle line between the forceps and hook. The attachment of the muscle, being then distinctly exposed, is divided by successively cutting with the scissors portions of it raised by the forceps, just as in dissecting this part in a dead body. The after-treatment requires no particular attention be- yond a moderately abstemious regimen,—avoiding bright light,— exercising the eyes equally,—and not employing them in reading or any minute work. At the end of ten days or a fortnight, if any obliquity is found to remain, or to have returned, it will be a Question, whether the rectus of the other eye should be divided, or the muscle already operated on should be cut a second time. In deciding as to this, I think the best guide is the effect pro- duced by closing the sound eye. If it is found to be altered in its ]3osition by doing so, and to present obliquity when suddenly exposed by opening the eyelids, the rectus concerned in produc- ing this effect may properly be divided. But if it remains straight, the operation should be repeated on the squinting eye, in the hope that the antagonist muscle, being afforded a second opportunity of contrac%ng, will do so more effectually than on the first occasion. In the course of two or three weeks after the operation, a warty-looking excrescence frequently grows from the seat of the wound, and requires to be cut away by dividing its neck, which is small and almost thread-like, with a pair of curved scissors ; or, to render this unnecessary, the nitrate of silver may be applied occasionally iintil the conjunctiva is completely healed. If left to itself, the growth, after gradually indurating, ultimately drops off from atrophy of the nutrient vessels.