360 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. made, so as to expose the spermatic cord, the operator introduces his finger through the external ling imder the tendinous expan- sion of the external oblique muscle, and divides it directly up- wards with a blunt-pointed bistoury, to the extent of an inch or more, if necessary, to bring the bottom of the sac into view. It generally then protrudes, and admits of being treated as in ordi- nary cases of hernia; but if it does not do so, even when the patient coughs, may be readily seized with forceps, and drawn fairly into view. In the case above alluded to, where the strangu- lation had taken place within the abdomen, I found no difficulty in executing the process as just described, and with complete success. It is matter of much regret that this mode of relief has been adopted in a comparatively small proportion of the cases requiring it which have hitherto occurred, and in general at a period of the disease so advanced as to preclude any chance of recovery; but the attention which has of late years been devoted to the subject will, it is hoped, render the practice in future more satisfactory and creditable to the art of surgery. Iliac Abscess. Collections of matter are sometimes formed in the iliac or inguinal regions, lying between the parietes of the abdomen and the peritoneum. As the gut on the right side is in tliis situation partly uncovered with peritoneum, there is a risk of ulcerative absorption being induced in its coats by the pressure of the con- fined fluid, so as to form a preternatural opening into the caput ccemm, which may become a stercoraceous fistula if the integu- ments also give way. To prevent this occurrence, it is right m such cases to make an early aperture. This complaint is met with most 'frequently in females soon after delivery, but is not confined to this condition; and I have even met with it, though certainly very seldom, in patients of the other sex. The abscess is generally of a subacute character, and, from its insidious for- mation, is apt to escape recognition.