PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 180 inflame as tlie first step to granulation. The great object in treating such injuries is consequently to obtain immediate union, and thus convert them into simple fractures. If the bone projects through the wound, a portion ought to be removed from its extremity by the saw or pliers, sufficient for allowing it to be easily replaced. To prevent irritation, which is so adverse to adhesion, the bones ought to be carefully set as soon as possible; and to keep down inflammatory action, cloths wet with cold water should be assiduously applied, until there is no longer any fear of it, or until it actually commences. With the same view, the patient must be confined to the most strict antiphlogistic regimen ; and if inflammation comes on, fomenta- tions and poultices should be substituted for the cold applications. Bleeding is to be used with great caution, since the patient, if he survives the immediate danger, will have to support a copious and profuse suppuration ; and those means which subdue violent action without permanently weakening the system ought to be preferred. So soon as the inflammatory tension begins to sub- side, the relaxing applications must be changed for those of a stimulating and astringent kind. The lotions of acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, etc., are the best adapted for this purpose. Counter-openings, if required, should be made to afford the matter free vent, and pressure must be carefully effected by com- presses and bandages, while the most unceasing attention is bestowed on the preservation of proper position and perfect rest. The patient's strength requires of course to be supported by nourishing food. Pieces of bone occasionally become detached during the cure, and delay or prevent it; they ought therefore to be diligently searched for and extracted. When the injuiy is so severe as to preclude the possibility of ■recovery, amputation must be performed. The circumstances to be taken into account in determining on this proceeding are— 1. The state of the soft parts ; 2. That of the blood-vessels and nerves ; 3. That of the bones ; 4. That of the patient's constitu- tion ; 5. That of the means for proper treatment. It is possible that any one of these circumstances may be so unfavourable as