PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 470 former than the latter, owing to the yielding condition of the bones at their time of life, which allows the cavity, when dimi- nished at one part, to expand in another. Where a perceptible depression exists, the symptoms may be fairly referred to the compression thus caused; since, when the case is broken, it is not likely that the contents should be so much shaken as when it remains entire. It was formerly thought that the symptoms of compression peremptorily required the immediate performance of an opera- tion for raising the depressed portion of the skull, or affording vent to effused blood. The ample experience of a different practice, followed in modern surgery, has proved that in most cases, imless the substance of the brain has suffered serious in- jury from concussion, the condition of the patient labouring under compression will not be altered for the worse, and in many will amend, if some days are allowed to elapse after the injury has been sustained, before proceeding to trepan the skull. The salutary change depends, no doubt, partly upon the effects of absorption,—partly upon the brain becoming accommodated to the diminished size of its containing case; and it will be promoted by bleeding, active cathartics, and powerful injections thrown into the rectum. If the symptoms do not diminish, or if they increase, the operation must be performed; and the proper time for determining on it is regulated by the particular features of the case. Should depression of the skuU. be asso- ciated with a wound of the scalp, penetrating to the bone, a very short trial of the means calculated to supersede the necessity of an operation wUl be sufficient, as the fracture is already a com- pound one, and consequently not liable to be aggravated in this important respect by trepauing. On other occasions, two or three days may generally be allowed to pass without any bad consequences. In operating for depression of the cranium, the saw should be applied on the sound part, so as to remove the overlapping edge that prevents the broken portion from being raised into its place by a levator, or taken away altogether. If the blood effused is found under the dura maicr, which then