DISEASED NUTRITION. 89 ractcrs and disposition are always distinctly marked. Various combinations and gradations of structure, as well as properties, frequently present themselves, so as to render the diagnosis diffi- cult and imcertain. In general, however, it is stOl possible to determine the predominant features, and form a correct opinion as to the nature of the disease. But tumours also degenerate or change then- condition, in respect both to substance and action. Thus fibrous growths, after remaining for many years firm, cir- cumscribed, movable, and devoid of pain, may become partially or completely softened, confused with the surroimdiag textures, fixed in position, and the seat of fungous excrescences. Similar changes are observed in the cystic, vascular, and even adipose gro'wths. It would hence be often difficult to recognise the original nature of tumours presented in practice ; but this is of little consequence, since, whatever it may have been, the existing characters must regulate the opinion and practice. Thus, as already stated, fibrous growths may, for a long period of years, retain their simple unoffending nature, together with its charac- teristic features, and at length imdergo a change so as to assiune the condition of cerebriform tumours, when they are found to constitute no less imsatisfactory subjects of treatment than if they had originally possessed the same malignant dis- position. This degenerating process sometimes occurs in a reproductive form, as is observed in the case of a tumour not rmfrequently met with in both sexes at_the time of life when yoxith is passing intajmaturityj and also, though more seldom, at both earlier and later periods, and which I have been long accustomed to describe imder the title of Eecurrent Fibrous Tumour. It generally occurs on the trunk, and especially on the-doxaal region. The texture is usually white and somewhat fibrous looking, but sometinies can hardly be distinguished from the adipose forma- tion, from which, indeed, it has in some cases been found to differ only in having a slight admixture of cellular substance, rendering it more white and firm. There is at first no pain or other unpleasant symptoms, and the patient usually retains good