PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 390 introduced. This principle of practice was obviously of great importance, since conviction of its truth would obviously lead to much more prolonged and careful exploration of the passage than would be thought requisite, if belief in the existence of impermea- bility were entertained. JFor my own part, it was frankly con- fessed that, while sharing in the doctrine of impervious urethras, I had occasionally found them so, and performed the old opera- tion, while ever since adopting the principle that every stricture might be permeated by instruments through time and care, I had not, either in public or private practice, met with one that proved incon-igibly obstinate. In performing the operation, the only instruments required are a short, straight, sharp-pointed bistoury, a grooved director, and a silver catheter. The patient, under the influence of chloro- form, ^^^iepl^sesj) being placed with his back upon a bed or table, and his limbs held up so as to expose the perineum con- veniently for the purpose in view, the operator introduces the director, confides it to an assistant, and makes an incision over the stricture about an inch and a quarter in length, exactly in the I} central line or raphe. This incision should at once extend ' ■ through the skin, subjacent cellular texture, and fascia, and be afterwards deepened if necessary, great care being taken to cut precisely in the same plane, and especially to avoid going aside be- yond the director. The operator, having felt the instrument dis- tinctly, takes it in his left hand, and guarding the knife on his right fore-finger, inserts its point into the groove, on the bladder side of the stricture. He then urges the blade through the tliickened and indurated urethra, which, from its touglmess and yielding disposition, is apt to elude the knife, and next, having withdrawn the director, passes the catheter into the bladder where it must be secured by proper tapes, and a bandage round the loins. The catheter may be removed on the fourth day. This operation, when properly performed, I believe to be perfectly safe, but is apt to produce serious effects through inattention to some aiDparently trivial circumstance. Thus if the catheter be allowed to escape from the bladder, and urine is