117 BLOOD-VESSELS. have had occasion to tie the femoral artery thirty-three times, and never experienced any troublesome effects from the operation. Ligature of the Arteries below the Knee. Aneurism hardly ever occurs below the knee from internal causes; but wounds not unfrequently occasion hemorrhage, which requires the arteries concerned to be tied. In such cases, it is necessary to secure the injured vessel not only above the aperture, but also below it, since the anastomosing branches would otherwise maintain the bleeding. The posterior tibial may be exposed by making an incision along the inner margin of the tibia, commencing opposite to the insertion of the sartorius, and running three or four inches down- wards. The knee being bent, and the foot extended in order to relax the gastrocnemius, the origin of the soleus from the tibia should be brought into view and divided, when the operator may pass his finger down to the arterj'', which lies somewhat more than a finger's breadth from the edge of the tibia, immediately under the fascia, that covers the deep-seated muscles, and then apply ligatures. But in operating for a wound of the vessel, it is always better to enlarge the existing incision than to make a new one. The arter}' might, if necessary, be tied very easily at the ankle. An incision about a couple of inches long should be made between the inner ankle and tendo Achillis, rather nearer the former than the latter ; two layers of fascia, which are the continuations of the superficial one lying immediately under the integuments, and the deep one that covers the blood- vessels, nerves, and deep-seated muscles, with more or less intermediate cellular substance and fat, must next be divided, and then the artery is found lying with its two verm comites on the tibial side of the neiTe. The plantar arteries are sometimes cut, and would be tied with great diflBculty, owing to the cellular and fatty textures which cover them being so thick and dense, especially when infiltrated with blood; but it is fortunately un- necessary to secure them in this way, as pressiire properly applied is always sufficient for the purpose. The lint ought to