113 BLOOD-VESSELS. since the tumour is always small at its commencement, and the enlargement of its sac does not affect the artery concerned in regard to the soundness of its coats. It may be remarked fur- ther, that if the vessel is considered sound while beyond the confines of the aneurism, it should not be looked upon as diseased merely because the increasing size of the cavity has led to its envelopment. Another objection to the old operation, is the fear that opening a large sac would be attended with such profuse and protracted suppuration as might exhaust the patient's strength. But this apprehension can have no good ground, since the con- densed texture, which encloses the blood of an aneurism, has no tendency to maintaia a discharge after being relieved from the cause of distension. Lastly, it has been feared, that laying open a large tumour of the kind in question might give rise to fatal hemorrhage, but, as will be explained hereafter, any such danger may be avoided through the use of means which have been devised for the purpose. Treatment of Particular Aneurisms. Popliteal.—One of the most common situations of aneurism is the popliteal artery, which, being subject to sudden extremes of tension and relaxation more than any other part of the arterial system, must be exposed not only to the directly exciting causes • of the disease, but also to the predisposing effect of the same cir- cumstances leading to morbid alteration of its coats. The tumour occupies the popliteal cavity, which it gradually fills, but hardly extends beyond, so long as any part of the artery remains entire. A circumscribed pulsating swelling is felt in the ham, wliich weakens the limb, and usually occasions constantly increasing pain as well as cedema, by pressing on the nerve and vein that lie over it. In some cases so little inconvenience is felt, that the disease escapes observation until it attains a large size. When the external coat gives way, so as to let the blood escape into the cellular texture, and convert the true aneurism into a false one, the swelling suddenly extends in all directions. The limb then becomes entirely useless, excessively painful, and I