120 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. necessary, by means of a probe-pointed curved bistoury, guarded with. Ms fore-finger. Gently scratching tbrough this fascia, which, near the crest of the nium, does not adhere intimately to the peritoneum, he will be able to push that membrane in- wards, and introduce his finger down to the artery which runs along the inner side of the psoas magmcs, loosely connected with the vein. If the aneurism-needle is assisted by the counter pressure of a finger placed opposite its point, hardly any dissec- tion will be required for detaching the vessel, and if the con- vexity of the instrument is turned towards the peritoneum, the risk of woimding it or the vein will be diminished ; but in this particular the surgeon must be guided by his own convenience. If any considerable branch of the eircumflexa ilii is cut during the operation, it ought to be secured. The edges of the wound should be stitched together, and lightly dressed. Sir A. Cooper recommended another mode of operating, which was certaiiily in some respects easier, but objectionable on several grounds, par- ticularly in so far as it exposed the vessel too low down, in the neighbourhood of the disease, the lymphatic glands, and the origins of the epigastric and circumflex arteries. This method was, to make a curved incision, having its convexity downwards, and nearly in the direction of Poupart's ligament^ beginning over the margin of the external inguinal aperture, and terminating near the spinous process, then to cut through the tendon of the external oblique muscle, so as to expose the spermatic cord, which being pushed upwards, along with the muscles lying over it and the peritoneum under it, afforded room for applying the ligature. The Internal Iliac has, on one or two rare occasions, been tied on account of aneurisms of the glutteal and ischiatic arteries affecting these vessels after issuing from the sacro-ischiatic notch. The operation is to be performed in the same way as that for the ligature of the external iliac, the incision being merely carried further upwards, and made somewhat longer. . The external iliac wiU form a good guide to the internal, which separates from the other at the sacro-iliac sjTichondrosis. The ureter crosses the