203 BONES. ciently. The process of extraction may sometimes be facilitated by dividing the sequestrum into pieces. Exfoliations of the tvhole thickness.—Bones die throughout their whole thickness from causes similar to those which induce exfoliation of their external or internal surface, and the dead portion separates from the living by the same process of absorp- tion that occurs in such cases ; but the state of the bones, after the cure is completed, requires in this case particular considera- tion. Sometimes the place of the dead part is not at all, or very imperfectly, supplied ; at other times its separation could hardly be suspected from any change visible in the shape or size of the bone affected. In order to accoimt for this remarkable differ- ence, it is necessary to inquire into the circumstances of the cases in which it is exhibited. In some cases, when the dead bone is detached, the remain- ing surface merely granulates, just as after the separation of an exfoliation which extends only partially through the whole thick- ness, and effuses sufficient osseous matter to round off the edges, thus lessening the extent of the gap, but still leaving a perman- ent deficiency at the part. The same result ensues when a por- tion of bone, including its whole thickness, is removed mechani- cally. But at other times the dead portion is found to be con- tained within a more or less complete case of new bone, which is ready to take the place of the old one whenever it is removed, by contracting its sides together so as to become a solid mass. It was formerly supposed that the death and reproduction of .an entire shaft, in this way, was a very common event, all cases of internal exfoliation being regarded as instances of its occur- rence, and the expression Necrosis has been generally employed to denote this remarkable process. It might have been supposed that when only small sequestra made their appearance, or were found on dissection, decisive proof would have been afforded of the partial extent of the disease. But the general swelling of the limb, which is caused by the irritation of an internal exfoliation, having led to the erroneous belief that an entire new shell was forming about the old bone, the non-appearance of a sequestrum,