334 PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. united together at the line which extends from the spinous process of the ilium to the pubis. They may all be traced distinctly down thus far, but cannot be separated lower without cutting them. The fascia tendinosa (tendon of the exteraal oblique) before uniting with the others, turns back upon itself downwards, so as to present a thick round border like a hem, which has led to the appellation of ligament (Poupart, Fallopius,) to this part. The internal oblique and transverse muscles lie between the fascia tendinosa and fascia transvcrsalis. Their fibres at this part are intimately connected, and constitute but an inconsiderable mass of muscular substance; they are attached to the junction of the fascias all the way from the spinous process to about a third of its length from the pubis. The ms deferens and other vessels which compose the spermatic cord meet together on the outer surface of the peritoneum, about midway between the spinous process and pubis, and about half an inch above Poupai-t's ligament. They here perforate the fascia trans- versalis, not through a well-defined aperture, but by carrying a thin funnel-like projection of it along with them. Descending obliquely towards the pubis, they become united with some fibres of the internal oblique and transverse muscles, which con- stitute the cremaster muscle. Having thus escajDed from under the edge of these muscles, the cord passes through the fascia tendinosa at a sort of slit-like opening about an inch and 'a quarter long, that extends from the tuberosity "of the pubis between the body of the fascia and its inverted margin. Trom the edge of this slit, which is named the external ring, a thin fascia is continued over the cremaster muscle; and the cord then proceeds into the scrotum, covered by an extension of the superficial fascia of the abdomen, which is continued along with it. The epigastric artery rises from the iHac nearly opposite Poupart's ligament, and running in the direction of the umbilicus, between the peritoneum and fascia transvcrsalis, crosses the cord about the middle of the inguinal canal, having nothing inter- posed except the fascia just mentioned. Inguinal hernia either descends along the whole course of