PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 132 prove troublesome until a pretty advanced period of life. It is recognised by its bulk and extension under the skin, together with the negative character of wanting pulsation. Like the superficial ntevus, it occasionally shrinks or ulcerates away. Wlien this tumour is seated on the face, is rapidly increasing, or threatens to bleed, it ought to be removed without delay; and though excision may, in some cases, be practised with ad- vantage, as when the base is small, so that the wound required admits of healing by the first intention, in general, or rather nearly always, the ligature affords the most eligible means of removal. If the disease can be completely embraced in two ligatures, nothing more is necessary than to pass a needle carry- ing a double thread from one side of the base to the other, and then tie the two halves as tightly as possible. It frequently happens, from the extent or form of the nsevus, that four liga- tures are required, and then two needles should be employed,— one being passed through the base, but not carried further, untQ the other conveys its thread fairly through, by which means any risk of cutting the ligatures by the sharp edge of the second needle is avoided. In this case the tying of the threads, though facilitated by the morbid surface being divided into smaller portions for inclusion, is rendered complicated and troublesome by their numbers, as well as the circumstance that any two cannot be rendered secure until they are tied on both sides, whence it is necessaiy that, while one of the knots is made, the other ends of the threads must be either held or tied at the same time by an assistant. The ligatures should be tied in what is called the surgeon's knot—that is, by having the ends crossed twice, which prevents slipping until the fastening is made good. If still more ligatures are required, they must be introduced and secured on the same principle. Thus in a case of large pendulous naevus, occupying nearly the whole of one side of the face, I employed upwards of twenty. On such occasions, the best way of proceeding is to pass successive portions of a long thread again and again by means of a needle with an eye in its point, and fixed in a handle.