271 MUSCLES. muscles of tlie back are subjected to violent exertion in lifting heavy weights, etc. The treatment requires in the first instance repose, warm fomentations, and sometimes the local abstraction of blood. After the pain has ceased, or has lost its intensity, friction with some stimulating liniment, and the support of a flannel bandage, are the best means that can be employed. Dislocation of a muscle is met with only in the case of the latisd-mis doisi, and here very rarely. The portion of this muscle which lies over the inferior angle of the scapula and braces it to the chest, seems, especially in weak relaxed indi- viduals, so loosely connected with the bone, that a very slight force would be sufficient to cause its displacement downwards. Such a dislocation does accordingly sometimes happen, but so seldom that few practitioners have an opportunity of seeing more than one or two instances of it. The accident is easily recognised by the projection of the lower extremity of the scapula, particularly when the arm is raised or separated from the side. All attempts to replace the muscle in such cases have proved unavailing. And the only remedy that can be advised is a bandage to press down the bone, and promote the formation of new adhesions between it and the muscle. Derangements in the Nutritive and Functional Actions of Muscles. It has already been observed, that the muscular tissue is little disposed to morbid action, and though diseases sometimes extend into it from the neighbourhood, there is no part of the •body in which alteration of structure so rarely originates. The carcinomatous and medullary sarcomatous degenerations sooner or later engage every structure that lies near the one in which they originate, and the muscles are not spared. Scrofulous tubercles occur in every tissue, but are rarely met with in the substance of muscles. Fibrous tumours have been met with in the muscles, but still more seldom. Absorption sometimes occurs in muscles so as to occasion an atrophy or wasting of them. This occurrence may be con-