2G2 PIUNGIPLEH OF SUItCIKUY. He seldom experiences mucli benefit \intil tlie slough separates, and the ulcerated surface begins to discharge freely. Should there appear any tendency to heal prematurely, it may be easily checked by applying some diluted ointment of cantharidcs ; and if the sore remain? open after the diseased action seems to be at an end, some astringent wash, such as the solution of the acetate of lead, should be applied to promote its cicatrization. When the disease goes on to suppuration in adults, the case may be considered nearly hopeless, as caries then almost always ensues, ^nd being seated in a part where excision cannot be performed, inevitably proves fatal to the patient sooner or later. In children the chance of recovery is much greater, but the limb in this case remains small, rigid, and distorted, the toes being turned some- times inwards, sometimes outwards. When the head of the femur is little affected, and the ravages of the disease, as usually happens, are chiefly exerted on the acetabulum, the thigh is rotated inwards, and presents nearly the same appearance as that which results from ordinary dislocation on the ilium. But when the head of the bone is destroyed by ulceration or inter- stitial absorption, the various muscles tending to effect rotation outwards, being no longer opposed by the usual mechanical resist- ance, draw the limb into nearly the same position which foUows fracture of the neck of the femur, and point the toes outwards. / Excision of the Joints. It has been exj)lained in regard to the treatment of caries, that the only remedy for this condition is removal of the affected portion of the bone. Amputation was formerly regarded as almost the only means of relief from carious joints. But it is now fully ascertained, that, on many occasions, the limb may be saved by cutting out the articulation. The softened, discoloured, and ulcerated integuments, the thickened and indurated cellular substance, and the gelatinous synovial membrane, are found to afford no serious obstacle to recovery, provided the whole of the bone, so far as it is actually carious, be taken away. The operation requisite for this purpose, though severe, is not more