482 PRINCIPLES OF SURC4EKY. The nerves sometimes become the seat of tumours, wliicli are generally of a firm fibrous structure and yellowish colour, but have been met with of a soft pulpy consistence. They seem to be formed between the nervous fasciculi, which can be traced over one or more sides of the swelling. They are generally smooth, round, or oval; and of a size intermediate between that of a pigeon find hen egg. They occur most frequently in the large nervous cords of the superior extremity, between the elbow and shoulder and at the wrist, for the most part commence about the middle period of life, and are observed more rarely in females than males. They are usually the seat of more or less constant uneasiness ; and when squeezed or otherwise irritated, occasion pain, with spasmodic twitching of the part to which the nerve affected is distributed. They are recognised by their symptoms, by their situation, and by their greater mobility in the transverse than longitudinal direction of the limb. The proper treatment of these tumours, as all external remedies are of no use, is to cut them out. The immediate effect of this opera- tion is insensibility and paralysis of the part concerned; but through time the patient generally recovers, in some degree, the powers thus lost; and, at all events, is freed from the annoyance of the disease, which is often so great as to render his life miserable. Tumours of a similar kind are not unfrequently, met with at or near the extremities of nerves divided by amputation. The enlargement seldom attains a considerable size, being generally that of a pea or marble. It is extremely sensitive to external pressure, which excites intense pain, referred to the limb removed, with spasmodic contraction of the muscles of the stump, while the tumour, even though not mechanically irritated, is hardly ever free from uneasiness. The only remedy is removal, which may be effected either by simply excising the affected pait, or performing a secondary amputation, which is the more eligible course, when the stump has been in other respects imperfectly formed. The Subcutaneous Nervous Tubercle, as it is called, though