122 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. as a foiiorn-hope, in a case where the patient was reduced to the very point of death by hemorrhage from an iliac aneurism. He cut through the parietes of the abdomen iu the linea alba, turned aside the intestines, cut through the peritoneum again, and tied the vessel. This operation may be performed without much dif&culty, but it does not seem probable that the compli- cated dangers attending the double wound of the peritoneum, the handling of the iutestiaes, and the shock caused to the sys- tem by suddenly impeding the circulation of the great arterial trunk, would leave the patient any chance of recovery. Sir A. Cooper's patient lived thiity-eight hours, and the circulation of the sound limb returned. His death was ascribed to its not doing so in the affected one, which was probably owing to the great extent of the aneurism obstructing a long tract of the artery and its branches, and consequently requiring the blood to be transmitted through many successive anastomoses. If the aneurism ascends too high for ligature of the common iliac, instead of resorting to the desperate expedient of tying the aorta, it would be better to lay open the sac, and secui'e the arterial orifice, which will probably be found considerably lower than the confines of the cavity. In a case where the tumour reached to the bifurcation of the aorta, I adopted this plan, and tied the external iliac just below its origia from the common trunk, the hemorrhage being completely suppressed by a clamp with which Professor. Lister of Glasgow supplied- me for the purpose. Ligature of the Arteries of the Superior Extremity. Aneurism seldom if ever occurs below the axilla, except as a consequence of wounds, and then, of course, has its sac formed entirely by the cellular substance exterior to the vessel. This used to happen most frequently at the bend of the arm when bleeding was in fashion, owing to the lancet being used in- cautiously, so as either to transfix the median basilic vein, and puncture the humeral artery which lies under it, or to open the radial or ulnar arteries instead of veins, which, when coming off