PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY 110 The bad consequences of this operation are gangrene, hemor- rhage, and suppuration of the sac. When the sloughing is of limi- ted extent, and dependent on pressure or feebleness of the patient's general strength, it ought to be combated by appropriate local and constitutional remedies; but when it is extensive, and the result of general inflammation of the limb, amputation should be performed withoixt delay, as high at least as the artery has been tied. There seems to be reason for suspecting that the mortiiication sometimes depends on the principal vein becoming obstructed, in conse- quence of the irritation suffered by its coats during the operation. The hemorrhage usually occurs about the time when the ligature separates, which is generally from the fourteenth to the twentieth day after the operation; but it may likewise occur either much sooner or considerably later. It appears for the most part very insidiously, not exceeding a few drops, but recurs from time to time in increasing quantity, until the patient, after being perhaps repeatedly saved by syncope, is finally exliausted. Pressure, together with the means which tend to lessen the force of the circulation, may be tried in the first instance ; but if the bleeding continues or returns, the surgeon must, without delay, either tie the artery neai^fjfche heart, or amputate the limb. Suppuration of the sac is a disagreeable, but not a very danger- ous occurrence, since it seldom takes place until the artery has been obliterated, so that there is no great fear of bleeding, and little to dread but a foul and extensive abscess. Whenever the matter . is actually formed, a free incision should be made to evacuate it, together with the clots ; after which, the cavity being in the first instance gently filled with lint, is to be treated with stimulating lotions and pressure. In a case of large diffused popliteal aneur- ism, for which I tied the femoral artery, suppuration occurred seven months after the operation, and was followed, after evacua- tion of the matter, by a very copious bleeding, which proved, upon examination of the amputated limb, to proceed from the breach in the artery leading into the aneurism, the vessel having been obliterated by the ligature only to the extent of three inches. The object of tying the artery being not to prevent the blood