50 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEUY. Treatment of Contractions caused hy Cicatrisation. When the ulcerated surface is extensive, and the integuments surrounding it are easily drawn together, as is the case after burns of the throat, great deformity and inconvenience are fre- quently occasioned by the contracting effect of the granulating action, rendering the cicatrix so small as to keep the parts about it permanently displaced and immovable. Mere division of the contraction is hardly ever sufficient to remedy the evil, as the firmness of the cicatrix prevents the edges of the cut from being separated much, and any relaxation thus gained is almost always lost during the subsequent cicatrisation. An ingenious method of treatment was proposed by Mr. Earle,—namely, to cut out the cicatrix entirely, and then unite the edges of the wound laterally, if possible, by the first intention, but, at all events, so as to pre- vent contraction in the longitudinal dii'ection. In favourable circumstances for its performance, this operation answers ex- tremely 'WeU, but these are unfortunately seldom met with; and it is obvious, that if the cicatrix be broad, or of much extent in proportion to the size of the part affected, no benefit could be de- rived from its excision. It is an important fact, that the cicatrix, while still recent and vascular, may be extended by mechanical force cautiously and perseveringly employed, since deformities from contraction may thus be not only prevented but some- times completely remedied. In the case of a girl, whose fore-arm, in consequence of a burn, was drawn up almost close to the arm, a complete cure was effected by one of my pupUs, in the course of a few weeks, through the use of an iron wire splint, fitted to the shape of the contracted limb, and gradually expanded. Treatment of Ulcers not tending to Heal. Ulcers are prevented from healing by many different circum- stances, which have led to a variety of complicated classifications for their arrangement. As the effect of these has generally been to peiplex instead of simplifying the subject, it seems better to