BRAIN. 405 sorial faculties is sometimes only partial, and the patient then remains permanently defective in respect to some of them, particularly memory. Sometimes also the character or disposi- tion of the individual is observed to be changed. The symptoms of inflammation of the brain generally appear within from twelve to twenty-four hours after the injury has been sustained. The pulse becomes quickened and sharp in its stroke; the skin feels hot and dry; the patient is restless, complains of headache, and is unusually sensible to light and noise. If the disease proceeds, the indications of it just mentioned become more strongly marked. Delirium and spasmodic contractions of the muscles come on, and are soon succeeded by insensibility and palsy of the limbs, and death closes the scene in the course of a few days at farthest. On dissection, the brain or membranes are found very vascular, with purulent effusion on the surface of the latter, and softening of the substance of the former. In cases where the texture of the brain has been lacerated in the first instance, the state of insensibility and collapse which immediately follows the accident, after a period of variable length, from a few hours to twenty-four, gradually passes into that of inflammation, generally with the intervention of an imperfect return of sense and voluntary motion, which is apt to suggest delusive hopes of improvement. The patient expresses pain by restlessness and moaning, his limbs are rigid or convulsed, and in a short time he passes into the same condition as if the inflammation had origi- nated from mere derangement of action, and not alteration of structure. On dissection, the cerebral substance at the injured part is found softened, and seeming as if mixed with blood and pus. In treating all inflammatory attacks, it is of the utmost conse- quence to employ the remedial measures as early as possible, and in none is it more necessary to do so tlian in this. Free general depletion, followed up by cupping on the neck, powerful cathartics and injections, shaving the head, and applying cold to it, are the means to be chiefly trusted for breaking the strength of the dis- order. By leeching the temples, and keeping up a copious 2 n