PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 438 means are conducive to its speedy and perfect accomplishment. If the swelling proves very indolent, blisters are often very useful in effecting discussion, or hastening suppuration, if it is in progress ; and it not unfrequently happens that these means excite absorption of the pus even after it is distinctly perceptible by fluctuation, which is always very desirable, as a breach of the integuments ought, if possible, to be avoided in persons whose sluggishness of local action indicates a bad constitution. When the matter is fully formed, it should be evacuated by free in- cision, after which the cavity may be poulticed for a few days, and then dressed with a metallic wash. Should the surface present an unsound appearance, caustic potass oiight to be em- ployed for its destruction. If the glandular structure protrudes through the aperture, or rises above the bottom of the cavity in spongy-looking, ash-coloured masses, it may either be subjected to the action of caustic, or first be removed in part by the knife or scissors. Should sinuses exist, owing to the aperture being too small or unfavourably situated, they are to be laid fairly open, or blistered if deep. In patients of feeble constitution, starvation and confinement are often the sources of obstinacy in the resulting idcer, and must be obviated by an alteration of regimen. If the system has been injured by mercury, recovery is sometimes rendered extremely tedious. In such cases, the gradual restoration of healthy action, which takes place through time, and the use of iodine with cod-liver oil, together with the external application of blisters, caustic, black-wash, or sulphate of zinc lotion, may be confided in as the best means of promoting recovery. When buboes present a phagedenic or sloughing character, they must be treated on the same principles as sores of the penis in similar circumstances. Phymosis. By Phymosis is understood a condition of the prepuce in which it cannot be draw back so as to expose the glans. This condition may be either permanent or temporary ; in the fomer case depending on the smaU size of the orifice, and in the latter