376 PRINCIPLES OF SUKGEIIY. thau was necessaiy. This arose from its being thought requisite to cut the gut as high up as the sinus extended, and to dress the wound with irritating applications, in order to promote the removal of its callous edges and surface. It is now known, that the induration depends entii-ely upon the irritation of the sinus ; also, that the internal opening is always very near the orifice of the gut; and that it is sufficient to divide the pai-t of the septum which lies between the external and internal openings; lastly, that unless the internal opening be comprehended in the incision, the division of the septum, however free, will fail in affording a permanent cure. It may be added, that where an internal open- ing does not exist, a remarkable thinness of the septum, wliich seems here to consist merely of the mucous membrane, is always observed at the place where the aperture is usually situated, and in such cases it is found sufficient to cut thus far. The opera- tion which is now performed for fisUda in ano being established on these principles, is extremely simple and easy, and is not attended with either much pain or any risk of bleeding. It does not require the complicated instruments formerly emjployed, and is readily effected by a blunt-pointed curved bistoury. The patient should be placed with his body bent forward, and his arms leant on a table or the back of a chair, unless the fistula is on the left side of the anus, and the surgeon cannot use the bistoury with his left hand, in which case the patient must be laid on his back with the thighs drawn up. The surgeon intro- duces his fore-finger into the gut, and then searches with a probe in the fistula for its internal opening, or, if there is none, for the thin denuded membrane where it would be, if present. Having withdrawn the probe, he insinuates the bistoury, carefully con- veys its point through the internal opening, or, if none exists, pushes it through the septum, and then, resting the back of the blade upon his finger, brings the point of the knife out at the anus, after which the septum may be divided quicldy and easily. In difficult cases it is better to let the probe remain, and cut it out while still passed through the internal opening. Any sinuses running into the hip or perineum ought next to be laid open.