272 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY, fined to a single muscle or affect a whole gronp of them. It is generally induced by some irritation, as that of a blow or irritating wound. The pricks sustained in dissecting have led to such con- sequences. There does not seem to be any efficient means of -pve- venting or removing this morbid action when it has commenced. The functional action of muscles depends very much upon the nervous system; and derangement of it is to be regarded, in general, rather as symptomatic of changes in the condition of that important system, than indicative of any alteration in the organs with which it is more immediately connected. It sometimes happens, however, that inordinate disposition to contract, and also in other cases deficiency of contractile power, are met with, when the muscles themselves appear to be the seat and cause of the disease. One muscle, or a group of muscles, occasionally contracts with unusual energy, and either without any, or with very imperfect, intermissions of relaxation. A permanent deformity or unusual position of part of the body is thus caused, which becomes increased in degree from time to time owing to paroxysms of contraction. These paroxysms are extremely variable in their frequency and duration. They often occur without any assignable cause, but are usually induced or aggravated by irritations, whether of body or mind. The muscles affected in course of time enlarge, and project more than is natural; they are also the seat of uneasy sensations, and are painful on pressure. This morbid action of the muscles is most frequently met with in the neck, especially in the sterno-mastoid. It then occasions one kind of wry-neck, the head being turned habitually to the opposite side. The treatment of this disease consists in removing all sources of irritation, whether direct or indirect, that may be discovered to be in operation. The state of the various secretions ought to be carefully inquired into, and rectified if deranged. If there are symptoms of local irritation, leeches, warm fomentations, and anodyne liniments, should be applied over the seat of the disease; and if these means fail, blisters and acupuncturation may be tried.