439 GENITAL ORGANS. resulting from swelling of the prepuce or parts contained within it. Permanent narrowness of the opening may be either con- genital, or caused by the contraction that occurs during the cicatrization of ulcers. It is inconvenient on many accounts ; and, in particular, exposes the individual to an aggravated foim of aU the diseases which affect the parts concerned. The tempo- rary phymosis is a very common consequence'of gonorrhoea, sores on the inner surface of the prepuce, and warts. The swelling is attended with redness and pain, and is not only distressing in this way, but reacts on the disease which occasioned it, and renders the symptoms more severe, as well as the treatment more difficult. The treatment of permanent phymosis requires dilatation of the orifice by incision, and this may be effected in various ways. Circumcision, or the removal of the prepuce with a knife or scissors, is easily performed, but deprives the glans of its covering. It sometimes happens, particularly in advanced age, that the prepuce becomes greatly elongated, thickened, and hardened, and then this mode of proceeding is the best, indeed the only one practicable. The ordinary plan is to slit open the prepuce, simply inserting one stitch at the termination of the incision to prevent separation of the cut edges, but this method also exposes the glans, and leaves redundant flaps of skin, which are apt to prove troublesome. The best operation, on the whole, seems to consist in cutting off a circular ring-like portion from the ex- tremity of the prepuce, drawing back the loose external skin, then slitting the internal membrane, on one or both sides, nearly as far back as the neck of the glans, and, lastly, stitching its cut edge to that of the skin. In cases of slight contraction, instead of removing any part of the prepuce, it is sufficient to divide the internal membrane so far as may be necessary by repeated snips of the scissors while it is exposed by drawing back the skin, and then stitching together the cut edges. The temporary form of this disease requires soothing measures, to allay the inflammation on which it immediately depends. Eest, hot fomentations, and, if the symptoms are very acute,