98 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. ing intlammatioii. Mr. Bromfield (1772) pointed out the -pro- priety of tying merely the coats of tire vessel, and introduced into general use for this purpose the Tenaculum, which had been previously recommended by Cheselden. It consisted of a sharp, curved, round needle fixed in a handle, and was employed to transfix and draw out the mouth of the artery, so as to let the ligature be tied about it. The common dissecting forceps, until lately, almost superseded the tenaculum, as rendering the insula- tion of the vessel more easy and complete ; but are now little used, in consequence of the more convenient instrument, known by the title of " catch forceps," having been introduced. The best material for the ligature is that sort of silk named " purse twist." It ought to be waxed previously to being used. . When the artery wounded is of large size, it must be tied both above and below the opening, as the anastomosing branches would otherwise maintain the hemorrhage from the inferior orifice. If it is necessary, in order to apply the ligatures, to ex- pose the artery more fully, this should, if possible, be done by dilating the original wound, since there is apt to be much difii- culty in finding the aperture when the surgeon cuts down on a different side of the vessel from that which is punctured. In tying an artery which has bled repeatedly, it is necessary to beware of mistaking for the orifice of the vessel a fibrinous cylindrical extension of it, the ligature of wliich could not pro- duce any permanent or beneficial effect. Pressure may, on many occasions, be employed to suppress hemon-hage more conveniently than the ligature, as when the artery is but small, or lies over some unyielding part which can afford good counter-pressure,—or is much branched and freely connected with neighbouring arteries of large size, so that several orifices would require to be tied,—when it is situated so deeply that the ligature could not be applied without a serious opera- tion,—or is in a state of ulceration. In wounds of the hands and feet, especially the palms of the former, and soles of the latter, no method is so convenient for stopping bleeding as pressure. Lint or sponge may be employed to effect the pressure ; but the