INFLAMMATION. 27 and also in this country, but it now seems to be going, or rather to have ah-eady gone, into disrepute, except in the treatment of Sciatica, where it is of the greatest service. It would seem that the effect of acupuncturation is proportioned, not to the number of the needles, but to the depth they are introduced, and the time they are allowed to remain. I generally use only one at each seat of pain, and leave it for two hours. Choice and Combination of the Means which have been mentioned in treating Inflammation. General bleeding is of no use as a preventive of inflamma- tion, unless it removes some derangement of the system, or counteracts its tendency to excite inflammation. It has most effect at the commencement of inflammation, and is most bene- ficial when there is great power of action. It is better to take a large quantity of blood at first, so as to produce some decided effect, than to bleed frequently by smaU portions. "When it is foiind necessary to take away a large quantity of blood, an opiate given immediately afterwards is useful, by diminishing the tendency to reaction ; and a small bleeding of a few ounces is often serviceable, with the same view, if practised soon after the first one, just when the symptoms of returning action appear. After the force of the disease has been broken by bleeding, if necessary, purgatives and diaphoretics are proper. It is usual to premise the mercurial, and follow them up with the saline ones. The tartrate of antimony is the best diaphoretic, and, by powerfully diminishing the tendency to violent action, in a great measure supersedes the necessity of bleeding, except at the commencement of the attack. Local bleeding is of most service, in treating acute inflammation, as an adjunct to tlie measures of a general kind. Blistering is most useful in chronic inflamma- tion, and ought never to be employed in other cases until by bleeding, or some other means, the power of action has been lessened. AH the other modes of couuter-iiTitating are most advantageous in, or rather entirely restricted to, chronic inflam- mation.