445 GENITAL ORGANS. that there is no good ground for such a distinction, though it is true that as the swelling is generally of a small size, and little dis- posed to increase, there is seldom much occasion for interference. The origin of hydrocele may sometimes be referred to blows or other sources of irritation, but is in general very obscure. The existence of a predisposition to the disease is rendered probable by the fact, that the fluid sometimes collects first on one side, and then, perhaps after an interval of years, appears on the other. The complaint generally commences about middle age, but is met with at all periods of life. Infants sometimes labour under it, either in consequence of the tunica vaginalis continuing to communicate with the cavity of the abdomen, and allowing fluid effused there to descend into it—a condition that has also, though ver}' rarely, been observed in the adult —or simply effusion from some source of irritation often not observable. The treatment of the disease is either palliative or radical. The former consists in merely drawing off the fluid ; the latter in doing so, and at the same time preventing its re-accumulation. The tapping of a hydrocele is best performed with a small trocar, which should be introduced at the anterior surface, about a third of the length of the tumour from the bottom, and at an equal distance from both sides. There is here least risk of woimding any large vessels, and the greatest separation of the tunica vaginalis from the testicle, to avoid which more effectually the instrument ought to be pushed gently and steadily through the parietes of the sweUing, while they are held tight with the left hand embracing it, and directed not perpendiciilarly to the surface, but obliquely upwards. But as the testicle is not by any means constant in its position relatively to the swelling, and as the tunica vaginalis is liable to partial thickenings, which would very much oppose the free introduction of the trocar, the operator should never proceed to puncture until he has examined the parts, and satisfied himself that there is no obstacle in the way of the instrument. This simple operation is proper in cases where it is not certain that the water will be again collected, and