2 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. with alteration of structure, and very apt to lead to it. Dis- ordered action, whether of function or nutrition, constitutes Disease, to remedy which is the object of Medicine. As the field of medicine is thus very extensive, it has been divided into Physic and Surgery,—the former department com- prehending chiefly internal complaints, while the latter includes those wliich are situated externally, or require for their treat- ment the use of external means. The art of Surgery consists in the performance of the various manual duties required in the employment of these means ; while the science of Surgery directs their choice and application. In the diseases which constitute the surgical department of medicine,—^if we except those depending on the introduction of foreign substances, the retention of secretions, and the presence of concretions in the cavities and canals of the body,—there is always alteration of structure, wliich may be owing either to mor- bid nutrition, or to external violence. In both cases, reparation is to be effected, not by mechanical art, but by the action of the nutrient vessels ; and all that the surgeon can do, is to remove obstacles impeding their salutary operation. When he speaks of healing a wound, for instance, he means nothing more than placing the part concerned in the most favourable circumstances for undergoing this reparatory process. It is therefore necessary, in entering upon the study of Surgery, to become acquainted with the various actions of these vessels, whether tending to the injury or reparation of structure. And as it very generally happens, that there is interposed, between the natural actions and those alterative of the structure, a diseased condition, which has been named Inflammation, this must be considered in the first place. Symptoms of Inflammation. By inflammation is understood that condition of a part in which it is red, swelled, hot, and painful, along with more or less fever, or constitutional disturbance. But there is stiU another circumstance of this morbid state, which, though it was not for-