534 PKINCIPLES OF SURGEKY. swelling and pain of the gums, inflammation of the eyes, and eruptions of the skin—particularly that of the head—diarrhoea, convulsions, and fever, are the symptoms most frequently observed. Soothing measures, such as the warm bath and gentle opiates, ought to be employed for allaying them, and whenever they are at all severe, the gum should be freely scari- fied where the teeth are supposed to be pressing on it. A convex-edged instrument answers best for this purpose, and it ought to be carried fairly down to the teeth in two du'ections, so as to make a crucial incision. When the teeth decay, so as to lay open the internal cavity, and expose the sensible pulp to external irritation—pain, or Toothache, as it is called, usually commences. It is not con- stant, and varies extremely in the degi-ee of its severity. Various irritations besides those of a local kind induce its fits, or occa- sional attacks, such as cold operating on the surface of the body, derangement of the digestive organs, or anxiety of mind. Preg- nancy is observed to favour their occurrence. The process of decay which leads to this complaint may often be averted, by scooping out the dark-coloured part of the tooth that sur- rounds the cavity, and filling the hollow with gold or silver foil, or gum mastic. Opium in substance or solution, some essential oils, as. that of cloves, chloroform, and also the strong mineral acids, when introduced into the hollow, often procure temporary relief from suffering ; but in general the only effectual remedy is extraction of the tooth affected. This operation is best per- formed by means of powerful forceps, of which the blades are short, concave, and placed obliquely in regard to the handles. Many ingenious apparatus have been contrived with the view of pulling the teeth perpendicularly from their sockets; but a little attention to the shape and direction of the fangs will render it evident that this mode, granting it to be practicable, would not be convenient. In order to dislodge the roots, it is often neces- sary that the alveolar processes should be broken more or less ; and the best way of accomplishing this is to draw the tooth towards that side which makes the least resistance, at the same