458 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. "Wlien arrived witliin tlie abdomen, it affects some of the viscera, and tlien very soon becomes painfully destructive." The only remedy for this disease is removal of the cancerous part; and, unless the operation be performed before the morbid process has advanced far, it does not afford any chance of a per- manent cure. Diseases of the Female Organs of Generation. The vagina is sometimes more or less completely obstructed by a membrane at its orifice, wliicli opposes the exit of the menstrual discharge. The non-appearance of the menses at the usual period of life, or the symptoms connected with their reten- tion, should always lead to an inquiry respecting the conforma- tion of the parts, and if such a congenital imperfection as the one just mentioned is discovered, the patient may be completely relieved by a very simple operation; all that is necessary being to divide the membrane with a kaife or scissors, and inteipose a piece of lint between its cut edges. The vagina, in some rare cases, has been found altogether wanting for part of its extent, in which cases, of course, nothing can be done in the way of. remedy. The Uterus is subject to the development in its substance of simple sarcomatous tumours of a very firm fibrous structure, which often grow from different parts of the organ at the same time, and, though generally not exceeding the size of an egg, are sometimes so large as to distend the abdomen far beyond the limits of an ordinary pregnancy. Iodine and other medicines are prescribed, both locally and internally, with the view of promoting the discussion of such growths; but it is probable that nothing can have any beneficial effect upon their progress except attention to the mode of life, which should be of a kind calculated to excite as little as possible the system in general, and the uterus in particular. Cancer of the uterus occurs occasionally, but is fortunately not frequent, since the situation and connections of the parts affected prevent the only effectual remedy for carcinomatous