MUSCLES. 273 Single muscles, or groups of muscles, are more frequently- met with in the opposite state to that which has just been de- scribed, their power of contracting being much diminished or altogether lost. The muscles of the face and fore-arm are most subject to this affection, and they suffer from it variously, both as to degree and extent. At one time it is the flexors alone, at another the extensors, and in some cases both together, which lose the power of action. The cause of this condition is some- times a blow, when the cure is usually tedious and imperfect. All that can be done is to use fomentations, frictions, and perse- vering attempts to exercise the muscles. The causes more fre- quently concerned are exposure to cold and long-continued pressure, and both of these often seem to be conjoined in pro- ducing the effect; as the most common history of the disease is, that the patient fell asleep in the open air, or in some unusual situation, and rested his head on one arm. In such cases, the cure is in general readily accomplished by applying a succession of blisters along the course of the affected muscles. Contraction of Muscles—Gluh-foot—Wryneck—Strabismus. In addition to that temporary or spasmodic contraction which has been already mentioned, the muscles are liable to a permanent shortening of their natural length, necessarily pro- ducing deformity, as well as causing inconvenience from restrict- ing motion. Such contractions of the muscles are occasionally congenital, as in the common case of club-foot, which depends not upon any faulty conformation of the bones, but upon a want of due balance in the muscular powers of the limb. In general, the foot is turned inwards (Varies); but sometimes, though very rarely, it is found in the opposite direction {Valgus). The foot may also be maintained in a state of extension without any lateral inclination (Pes eguinus); but this condition is hardly met with as a congenital derangement, and usually occurs in childhood, especially during the period of teething, or after an attack of the exanthematous diseases to which that age is liable. Until recent years, the treatment of club-foot, in all its T