PRINCIPLES OF SITEGERY. 330 escape with the feculent discharge. If the wound is so large as to require more than one stitch, as many as seem necessary are to be introduced in the same way at the distance of a quarter of an inch, or less, from each other. If the wound is lacerated or contused, the injured part should be cut away before the edges are joined. And, iinally, if the whole circumference of the gut is divided, it may be best to insert only one stitch on the side next the mesentery, so as to keep the two mouths of the intestine together, and then retain the aperture of the canal in corre- spondence with the external wound. A preternatural opening for the discharge of the bowel must thus in all probability be formed in the first instance; but the immediate danger will be dimi- nished, while room is afforded for subsequent reparation, in the way that will hereafter be described. The viscera of the abdomen, with which may be included the urinary bladder in its distended state, are liable to be ruptured by external violence mthout the infliction of a penetrating wound. The symptoms are those indicative of extravasation of the intestinal matters ; and the result is certainly fatal, almost always within the short period that has been already mentioned. It is imiDortant to know that the bladder, when much distended with urine, may be ruptured very readily, as by falling on the floor or the corner of a table,—since death occurring in such cir- cumstances may give rise to very serious questions in medical jurisprudence. Urinary effusion from this source sometimes does not prove fatal before the lapse of several days, and in a case that came under my ovm observation the patient survived a week. It is also possible that the urine may be effused through a rent in the fore-part of the bladder where it is not covered by the peritoneum, so as to escape into the cellular tex- ture of the abdominal parietes, and permit the patient's recoveiy, as happened in a case which I have x^laced upon recoi-d.* * Contributions to the Patliology and Practice of Surgery, p. 332.