PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 346 and the mischief that may arise from abortive elToits to effect reduction, when it is impeded by adhesion, or other obstacles within the sac. On the whole, I am inclined to tliink that, as a general rule, it is better to oxDen the sac; and that the procedure in question should be restricted to the treatment of large hernial protrusions when the bad consequences of opening the sac are greatest, and the difficulty of dividing the stricture smallest. The third step of the operation consists in the management of the protruded viscera. If the hernia is recent, and inflammation has not been excited, the intestine and omentum present nearly their usual appearance, except that the former is more or less thickened in its coats, and has a dark, purple, or brownish colour. In such cii'cumstances, the gut should be returned first by gentle pressure, similar to that employed in the taxis, and then the omentum. If effusion of lymph has taken place on the surface of the intestine in consequence of inflammation, the reduction may be performed as in the former case, but, of course, with a less favourable prognosis. If old adhesions, existing between the surfaces of the intestine, or between them and the sac, oppose reduction, they ought to be divided when this is practicable, and when it is. not, the parts must be left to themselves ; the integu- meuts being brought together, or simply covered by a pledget of ointment. It might be expected that more of the intestine would thus be permitted to escape, but it is foimd that when the stricture has been freely divided, the functions of the bowels re- stored, and the patient confined to the horizontal posture, the protrusion gradually diminishes, and finally withdraws itself into the abdomen. The same practice is proper when the caput cmcixm has descended. Should the omentum be so thickened and indurated as not to permit reduction, it may be cut away as far as is necessary, any vessels that require ligatures being tied. Exit from what has fallen within my own observation, I am in- clined to thinlc that it is better to leave the omentum in the sac, than to practise excision of the indurated portion, since there is thus incurred a risk of several bad consequences. In the fint place, whether from the wound alone or the ligatures, which are