EXTERNAL INJUKIES. 151 therefore, oiiglit to be applied witli moderate firmness. When blisters rise, the detached cuticle should be not only laid freely open, but taken away altogether, as its presence seems to increase the irritation. If ulcers remain, lotions of sulphate of zinc, or acetate of lead, are required to stimiilate the granulating surface. It was formerly the custom to dress burns with unctuous matters, such as the carron oil, or linimentum aquce calcis; hut these applications are now almost entirely superseded by the means which have been mentioned. When the burn is so severe as to destroy the life of the part, it must always be regarded as a severe injury. In very young or very old subjects, or those who on any other account are very weak, it is apt to induce immediate sinking ; especially when it« affects the trunk, and more particularly the abdomen. In patients whose powers of action are stronger, the local irritation generally occasions very smart symptomatic fever, and when the integuments of the thorax or abdomen are affected, there is a risk of the membranes, lining these cavities internally, inflaming from their contiguity. The constitutional treatment must de- pend upon the circumstances of the case. If the patient is drowsy, with cold extremities and a weak pulse, spuits, wine, and other cordials should be assiduously administered, whUe the body is warmly covered, and sources of artificial heat are applied to the feet. If, on the other hand, the ordinary symp- toms of inflammatory fever should be present, soothing means will be requh-ed. The local treatment of burns has afforded a fruitful field for diversity of practice and opinion, some using cold applications and means of a sedative kind ; while others, as Dr. Kentish, have insisted upon the advantage obtained from employing oil of turpentine, and different stimvilants of this sort. It will be foimd, however, that there is not so much room for doubt and question as may at first appear, since it is only hi what may be called the first stage of burns, or that part of their progress which intervenes between infliction and ulceration, that any uncertainty exists as to the proper mode of treatment. If the injuiy is slight, that is to say, if the part affected still retains