199 BONES. from various circumstances, but most frequently from the preju- dicial use of mercury co-operating with venereal disease, espe- cially in a scrofulous constitution. The latter includes exposure to cold and wet, and blows. Middle-aged adults are the most common subjects of its attack. The mode of treatment depends upon the intensity of the symptoms. When they are very violent, and attended with smart fever, the most effectual practice is to make a free incision tlirough the inflamed parts down to the bone. When less severe, they yield to leeching or cupping, warm anodyne fomentations, camphorated mercurial ointment with anodyne liniment, and opium administered internally along with calomel, ipecacuan, tartrate of antimony, or colchicum. When still more chronic, they require repeated blistering, with an alterative course of the hydriodate of potass, or the oxymuriate of mercury—six grains of the former, or haK a grain of the latter, being given daily in divided doses. The decoction of sarsaparilla is generally pre- scribed, but I believe without any beneficial effect, farther than inducing the patient to conform to dietetic rule. The forma,tion of matter is a very common consequence of chronic periostitis,, but, in this case, absorption may generally be induced by using the means just mentioned; and, therefore, an opening of the cavity ought to be avoided. Should it take place spontaneously, moist dressing, with occasional bhsters, will be found the best means of treatment. Inflammation of the substance of the bone occurs under simi- lar circumstances, and is attended with nearly the same symp- toms. The pain is, if possible, still more deep, dull, and aching; the integuments, though exhibiting the same changes in the pro- gress of the disease, are not so much altered in the first instance, and the swelling affects the shape of the bone more extensively. Wlien acute, it generally terminates in death of the dense osse- ous tissue, and in suppuration of the spongy bone. When chronic, it expands the texture of the shafts, so as to make them larger and less compact, and in the cancellated texture usually induces either absorption or suppuration.