PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 350 occasion any disagreeable symptoms. When the piece included is detached by ulceration, and the forceps faU off, the case must be treated by gentle pressure and attention to the bowels, as if the septum had not existed. Femoral Hernia. The femoral vessels descending along the inner margin of the psoas magnus rest upon a fascia which covers that muscle, together with the neighbouring iliacus internus, and also lines the cavity of the pelvis. This iliac fascia, as it is named, is united to the fascia iransversalis, so as to appear quite continuous with it, when both are brought into view by stripping off the peritoneum from tlie inner surface of the abdominal parietes. They leave, however, an oval aperture to let the vessels pass through them, which it is necessary to consider particularly. The union of the two fascite is continued from the pubis for about an inch and a half towards the ilium, in the direction of the linea ileo-pectinea, where it terminates by a sort of crescentic margin that is seen very distinctly when the parietes are held up and surveyed from the inner side, after the peritoneum lias been removed. Where the fasciae thus meet together, they are inti- mately and inseparably connected with the reflected margin of the tendinous fascia of the abdomen (tendon of the external oblique) which is attached to the tuberosity and crest of the pubis, and also with the superficial fascia of the abdomen, together with the fascia lata of the thigh. On the iliac side of this crescentic margin, with the interposition of some loose cellular substance and fat, the vessels Lie, resting on the fascia iliaca, which here becomes attached to the bone, and covered by the union of the three abdominal fasciae, which form a bridge over them that has been named the crural arch. Between the vessels and spinous process the iliac and iransversalis fasdcs again unite, and allow the iliacus internus, together with the psoas magnus muscle, to pass under them to the trochanter minor. The fasciae are here closely connected with the vessels, or rather with their slieath of dense cellular substance, in wliich they