472 PRINCIPLES OP SURGEPiY. Fractm-es witli depression result from the operation of forces acting on a somewhat extensive surface which gives way before them. The contents of the cranium are consequently not niuch shaken ; and as the depressed portion presents its smooth side to the membranes, there is 'comparatively little risk of inflam- mation being excited in them. It has been abeady explained, in regard to compression, that it is not considered right in modern siu'geiy to interfere by operation with such fractui-es, unless the symptoms denoting compression of the brain should be well marked, and persist after a modera-fce period, during which proper measures are employed for promoting the accom- modation of the organ to the alteration that has taken place in the shape and size of its containing case. Pimctured fractures are inflicted by sharp-pointed bodies, which apply their force with concentrated effect. They per- forate, or beat in, a small portion of the external table of the skull, which, acting on the more brittle, internal, or vitreous ! part, generally depresses it to a considerably gi-eater extent, in the form of a flattened cone, the apex of which corresponds with ' I the centre of the injuxy. The sharp edges and points of bone thus driven inwards are apt to lacerate the membranes, or at aU events irritate them, so as to excite inflammation. Sometimes the bad effects thus produced are of a chronic kind, and the patient, months or years after the injury has been sustained, may suffer from pain, discharge, or epilepsy, caused by the iiiita- tion of a scale of bone pressing on the dura mater or brain. In the first instance, this injury is attended with little incon- venience, since the skull being broken, there is little concussion, and no internal effusion of blood, while the extent of bone depressed, though it may be considerable when comjDared with the size of the external wound, is not so great as to occasion any sensible degree of comjpression. But no fractm-e is really so dangerous, or so much entitled to attention on its own account, and it ought always to be regarded as requiring an immediate ojjeration. In performing tliis, it is rarely necessary to convert a simple fracture into a compound one, as the bone is in almost