413 PELVIS. writings. The instruments required are—1. A grooved staff to guide the knife in cutting into the bladder. It ought to be of the largest size that the urethra will readily admit, which is usually about No. II of the bougie scale, and the groove should be very wide and deep, neither on the side nor convex surface, but in the intermediate space, so as to correspond with the direc- tion in which the incision is carried. ^ Mr. Aston Key recom- mended a straight staff,—which certainly has the eidvantage of conveying the knife more directly than a curved one, but is liable to the objections of occupying the ojjerator's left hand while the section is made, instead of leaving it at liberty to press aside the rectum, and also of exposing the artery of the bulb to danger. 2. A knife, which, including both the handle and blade, should be between seven and eight inches in length. The edge of the blade should be blunt, except to the distance of an inch and a quarter from the point. 8. Forceps for extracting the stone, of two or three different sizes, of which the blades should be broad, moderately hollowed, and destitute of projecting teeth, which are apt to break the calculus. 4. A scoop to remove frag- ments or gravel. And, 5. A flexible tube, about six inches long, and half an inch wide, to convey away the urine after the opera- tion, and prevent its infiltration into the cellular substance. The parts that require to be cut are:—I. The integuments,' which should be divided to the extent of about three inches in an adult, or more if the subcutaneous adipose tissue is unusually thick, and of course less in children. The incision should extend obliquely from the raphe of the perineum to the hip, passing nearly equidistant between the anus and tuberosity of the ischium. 2. The transverse muscle of the perineum, and inte- rior part of the levator ani. 3. The transverse artery of the peri- neum. 4. The membranous part of the urethra. 5. The prostate gland through the whole extent of its left lateral lobe. And the parts which ought not to be cut are:—I. The rectum, which may be injured in laying open the perineum, in cutting into the groove of the staff, and in dividing the prostate, but chiefly in enlarging the wound, in case it proves too small subsequently to withdraw-