PRINCIPLES OP SURGERY. 176 large and clumsy. He therefore insisted upon carefully setting or replacing the fracture, and in doing this pointed out the im- portance of relaxing, by proper position of the limb, those muscles which by their contraction caused or increased the dis- tortion. Here he remarked very justly, that what is usually called the riding or rising end of the bone, from its seeming to project, is, with some few exceptions, really in its place, and appears prominent merely because the other is drawn in an oppo- site direction by the muscles. He shewed the folly as well as danger of attempting to squeeze down the projection by local pressure, and discarded the short splints which were employed for this purpose. But in order to retain the proper position after obtaining it by due relaxation of the muscles, and prevent the weight of the limb, the movements of the patient, and the spasms of the irritated muscles from causing displacement, he recom- mended the use of splints long enough to extend beyond the joints at both extremities of the broken bone. The process by which reunion is accomplished can seldom be inspected before its completion, and experiments on the lower animals are not to be regarded as affording unexceptionable evidence; it has therefore been very variously explained, and still remains in some points rather obscure. The following steps seem to be well ascertained. In the first place, the parts which form the cavity that encloses the fractured extremities of the bone become thickened and consolidated by the interstitial effusion and organization of lymph. The medullary membrane undergoes a somewhat similar change, while the, surface of the bone acquires a covering of gelatinous-looking Ijmiph. The sort of capsule which is thus formed by the indurated periosteum, muscles, fat, or whatever other tissue happens to be concerned, gradually becomes firmer, and has ossific matter deposited in its substance, generally in largest masses where the periosteum stni adheres to the bone. The broken extremities are thus by degrees joined together and rendered immovable, but still remain imable to resist any considerable force which tends to separate them. The process of ossification then proceeds inwards from aU the