PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 474 The treatment of Jwnia cerebri wMcli proves most beneficial I consists in the free excision of the protruded mass on a level j with the surface of the du7-a mater, and the subsequent appli- I cation of pressure by means of lint, together with a plate of lead suited to the size of the aperture in the bone. With the assist- ance of such means the patient sometimes recovers, but more frequently sinks under the irritation attending the disease. The scalp is liable to various injimes, of which the first that may be mentioned are Bruises. The most common effect of these is the appearance of a firm round flat tumour, owing to effusion into the cellular substance, wliich takes place almost immediately after the blow is inflicted, and then gradually diminishes without any remedial measures, so as to leave, in the course of a few days, no trace of its existence. "When the con- tusion is more severe, blood is effused under the iutegiimeuts, so as to constitute a fluctuating swelling, the extent of which is very variable, from that of the point of a finger to a half or more of the surface of the cranium. The edges of the scalp surround- ing it are very firm, and somewhat thickened, whence there is some risk of erroneously supj)osing, from a careless examination, that the skuU is depressed. The blood is usually absorbed either spontaneously, or under the influence of a discutieut lotion, assisted by pressure, but occasionally excites sufficient irritation by its presence to cause the formation of an abscess. Should this change occur, a free opening must be made for the escape of the matter; and, if the quantity of fluid effused in the first instance is very large, or does not soon shew signs of being absorbed, it may be well, in order to hasten the cure and prevent suppuration, to evacuate the cavity of its contents, and then carefully press its sides together. In some rare cases, one or more of the larger arterial branches are ruptured, and the tumour then not only fluctuates, but pulsates. External pressure is found quite inelfectual in checking the accumidation when proceeding from this source, and the only method of remedying it consists in laying open the cavity, sponging out the blood, and securing the injured vessels by ligature, or the application of