TKNDONS. 283 Infiammation and Sloughing of Tendons. The tendons, their fibrous sheaths, and also the fasciae which lie over them, are very readily deprived of vitality by inflamma- tion. This occurrence most frequently happens in the fingers and palm of the hand in what is called Paronychia or Whitlow. By this term is understood an intense inflammation, generally confined to one finger, but sometimes affecting several, and ex- tending into the palm of the hand, to which also it is occasion- ally limited. Though the swelling is generally on both sides, the principal seat of disease is almost always confined to the palmar aspect. The pain is agonising, the tension great, and the redness of the skin affected very bright. The inflammation extends to various depths, and leads to consequences of corresponding importance. Sometimes there is merely a collection of matter foimd under the thick skin of the part affected. More frequently, in addition to this, there is more or less sloughing of the ten- dinous structure, and not rarely death of the phalanges. The causes of paronychia are generally local irritations, but it is pro- bably necessary that their effect should be favoured by a state of the system predisposing to derangement. The only eff'ectual treatment consists in making a free incision through the tense and swollen parts. There is reason to believe, that if this were- done soon enough it would generally prevent the siibsequent suppuration and sloughing; but the opportunity of interposing thus early is seldom afforded, and the incision ig 'usually prac- tised to evacuate matter. Much mischief is often done by continued poulticing in such cases. Under this influence the matter is long of making its escape by ulcerative absorption, and the opening, when at last formed, is always too small for allow- ing free exit either to it or the tendinous sloughs. The iiTita- tion, therefore, is kept up, especially by the retained sloughs of the tendons, and the destruction of the tissues proceeds. There is no advantage in poulticing previous to incision, and though useful for a day or two afterwards in promoting the separation of the matter and sloughs, it ought not to be persisted in longer