298 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. or an ivory ball probang introduced by the mouth so as to dis- tend them. He finally opens the oesophagus, and with his finger, or curved forceps, removes the body of which he is in search. Stricture of the (Esophagus. The oesophagus is subject to three different kinds of stricture; one depending on inordinate contraction of the muscular fibres ; a second consisting in a simple constriction and thickening of the mucous membrane ; and a third caused by degeneration of the coats of the tube, which, becoming the seat of a tumour, render the canal narrow and tortuous. The first, or spasmodic stricture is met with chiefly in young or middle-aged persons ; particularly those of a nervous habit, or disposed to hysterical complaints, or who have suffered much from mental distress. It is recognised by the difficulty which is experienced in swallowing, and by a disagreeable sensation of constriction in the throat. The remedy consists in administer- ing anti-spasmodic medicines, such as the tincture of valerian; correcting any irregularities that may be discovered in the per- formance of the various secretions ; and, if necessary, passing a full-sized bougie into the oesophagus, which sometimes at once completely removes the unpleasant feelings of the patient. Similar symptoms are sometimes produced by an opposite or paralytic state of the muscles of deglutition; in which case, if the patient survives the derangement of the nervous system that primarily occasions this d3'sphagia, food mu^t be sup- plied through a tube introduced from time to time into the oesophagus. The second, or simple organic stricture, as it may be named, occurs chiefly at the commencement of the oesophagus, opposite the cricoid cartilage ; and for the most part in people of advanced age. The contracted part is usually of small extent, seeming as if it were caused by drawing a thread round the tube, and exists in various degrees of width, from that of a small quill upwards. The circumstances which occasion this morbid state have not been well ascertained. When irritating or escharotic fluids, such