PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 324 portant object than the rapidity of the operation. He lastly turns up the edge of the tumour, and detaches its remaining connections. The vessels that continue to bleed having been tied, the edges of the wound should be stitched together, and covered with compresses of Unt. Instead of a bandage surround- ing the chest, a folded towel ought then to be applied. Medullary Sarcoma. The medullary sarcomatous affection of the mamma occurs at all periods of life beyond puberty, but most frequently about middle age. The tumour is recognised by its usual characters of irregularly-nodulated surface, and soft elastic consistence, either throughout its whole extent, or at the most prominent parts, which are generally red, either of a dull or bright hue, and exhibit numerous small arborescent vessels. The pain attending the disease varies much in different cases, being at one time very severe, at another hardly perceptible. When there is a strong disposition to the unhealthy action, the complexion of the patient is of a greenish-yellow colour, and the countenance has a peculiar anxious expression. The tendency of the morbid growth is to enlarge ; to contract adhesions with the integuments and muscles in its neighbourhood; to excite a similar disease in the axillaiy glands; to suppurate, ulcerate, and fungate; and occasionally in this last stage to throw out blood from time to time, but more frequently a thin watery discharge, which is in general very copious and fetid. The substance of the tumour often protrudes at the ulcerated openings in large masses, which seem nearly in a sloughing state, and are occasionally altogether detached. The bulk of the swelling is thus diminished, but enough of the disease remains to prevent a cure from being accomplished. The different steps of this process are completed, and follow each other, with various degrees of rapidity. A few months are sometimes sufficient for the whole progress from the first to the last stage, and, on the other hand, years even may elapse before the disease proves fatal.