PIIINCIPLES or SURGERY. 4G0 I into view, the best mode of removing them is to tie a strong ligature as close as possible to their root. This is executed much more easily by means of the fingers, than any of the apparatus contrived for the purpose. They may also be removed by evul- sion. When the neck of the excrescence can be pulled beyond the orifice of the vagina, the simplest and speediest mode of proceeding is to transfix it with a needle, and carry thi'ough two threads, wMch are then tightly tied, one on each side, after which the tumour may be removed by the knife. There is often considerable dif&culty in distinguishing growths of tliis kind from eversion of the uterus. Their history, deficient sensibility, and their having round their root a ring formed by the os uteri, in general afford sufficient diagnostics on a careful examination. Excrescences frequently grow from one or both lips of the OS uteri; and by bleeding, or exciting the usual symptoms of uterine irritation, occasion great distress. It has been found by Lisfranc, and other French surgeons, that their excision may be performed without any bad consequences, and with the best effects, even when they have attained a very large size. The in- struments employed for the purpose consist of hooked forceps to draw the morbid growth into view, and curved scissors or a bis- toury to cut it away. The hemorrhage may generally be restrained by cold applications and plugging the vagina with lint or sponge; but if it should prove excessive, the' cut surface must be again drawn out and compressed, by transfixing it with a couple of threads, and tying one on each side. The Ovaries are liable to various morbid conditions, but par- ticularly two, which often become the subject of surgical con- sideration. Of these, the first that may be mentioned consists in the development of cysts in their substance, which is thus con- verted into a cystic tumour. The swelling is at first felt round, firm, and movable in the inguinal region. It gradually increases, not owing to an equal enlargement of all the cysts, but an exten- sion of one or more of them. The cavity of the abdomen is dis- tended, and at length appears as if the peritoneum were the seat of dropsical effusion. The progress of the disease is very vari-