BLOOD-VESSELS. 97 ' when at last ruptured, is elongated beyond the internal and i midcUe ones, and instead of resuming its relative situation with J regard to them, collapses into a conical form, so as effectually to i close the orifice. . This explanation I ventured originally to give S on the authority of experiments repeatedly performed, and as L affording a more satisfactory explanation of the fact than tho^ j f (violence, and therefore induce more speedy coagulation of tM^ ,-. /'previously offered to account for it, viz., that arteries retract ^1 '^^ore when torn,—that the edges of the orifice are killed by the /i?Dlood,—and that the internal coats are more extensively rup- /' /' tured than the external one, so as to form irregular folds or pro- /^jections into the cavity. Every opportunity of ascertaining the truth through actual examination, and they have not been few, has tended to confirm this opinion, by shewing that the internal and middle coats terminate abruptly with a smooth circular edge, as if cut by a ligature, and that the external one forms a conical bag containing coagulated blo(5d. In some constitutions there is a remarkable disposition to bleed, so that the slightest wounds become troublesome, or even dangerous. This hemi^orrhagic tendency is generally observed most distinctly in children,—is associated with both fair and dark complexions,—is frequently hereditary, and can be dis- covered only by experience of its effects. The means employed artificially for conducing to the cessa- tion of hemorrhage, may be referred to the ligature, pressure, ■. and styptics. The use of the ligature was introduced by Am- brose Pare in the latter end of the sixteenth century. He, and still more his successors, applied it injuriously by including a portion of the surrounding tissues to give it a secure hold. Parc^ employed large broad-bladed forceps, called crane-bill from their shape ; but the instrument generally preferred was a ciirved needle, which, being thrust through or around the vessel, to- gether with the parts adjoining, subjected to the ligature a mass not only quite supeifluous, but which likewise was apt to occa- sion great inconvenience by^ shrinking subseqxiently so as to render the ligature loose, liy delaying its separation, or by excit- H