PEINCIPLES OF SURGEKV. 436 surface once a day, with some milder lotion in the inteiTals, proves most efficient in arresting the progress of the ulceration, as well as promoting granulation. The disposition to slough depends on excessive irritability, which in general is owing to too great a power of action, and requires measures of depletion, together with those of a soothing kind. Leeching, scarifying, fomenting, and poulticing, acetate of lead, and watery solutions of opium, are the means found most useful for this purpose, and all of them, except the two first, may be used with advantage also when the irritability is associated with weakness of the part. In mercurial sloughing of a chronic character, the best counteragent is caustic potass gently applied. If secondary symptoms appear, they ought to be treated merely on the ordinary principles which guide the practice in regard to them proceeding from other causes. In affections of the skin and throat, it is much better to abstain from mercury altogether, and either trust entirely to local means, together with a suitable regimen, or employ iodine in some of the forms in which it is usually prescribed. In affections of the periosteum or bones, which, as already mentioned, never occur in a severe form except when the patient has suffered from the mercurial influence, iodine is also found eminently useful, the appropriate local treatment, and especially the regulated application of blisters, being at the same time employed. Should it fail in affording relief, corrosive sublimate may be administered, in very small doses, such as the eighth or sixteenth of a grain two or three times a day, given either solid or in solution, and com- bined with some anodyne or diaphoretic vehicle. If mercury were never used improperly, the treatment of venereal diseases, both primary and secondary, would be very easy; and as its abuse is every day becoming less common, there is reason to hope that the formidable class of mercurial diseases, on which volumes have been written, and particularly ulcers of this origin on the genitals, skin, mouth, and throat, will soon cease to be met with in practice. In regard to them, it wiU be sufficient to state at present, that time, careful attention to the