245 JOINTS. or other of the lateral ligaments, and a partial displacement of the articulating surfaces of the tibia. In the rare cases of its complete dislocation, it has generally been found behind the femur; but according to Sir A. Cooper, it may also be driven forwaixls. The accident is very readily recognised, owing to the gi'eat size of the articulating surfaces, and the thinness of their siUTOimding parts. The reduction, which is not difficult, requires extension and counter-extension, accompanied with pressure on the dislocated bone. It is thought that the semilunar cartilages are subject to dis- placement, since x^ersons of relaxed frame sometimes complain of pain and stiffness in moving the knee, which are felt suddenly, and disappear no less so, when the joint is forcibly bent and extended. Ankle-joint—Though the ankle is frequently dislocated as a consequence of fracture through either malleolus, as has been noticed under the proper head, yet dislocation happens so rarely by itself, that it is hardly necessary to mention the possibility of its occurrence. This dislocation can be only backwards or for- wards, and is reduced chiefly by coaptation. Astragalus.—When a person falls from a height on his heel, the violence thus sustained not being diffused over a number of articulations, as when he alights on his toes, is transmitted to the astragalus with such intensity, as sometimes to eject it from its place, turn it upside down, and make it protrude under the integuments of the instep, or force its way through them. This dislocation seldom admits of reduction, and the bone, when so .displaced, must in general be removed. If an opening has not been caused by the accident in the first instance, one ought to be made without delay, in order to anticipate and prevent the violent inflammation that will otherwise occur, as the precursor of ulceration or sloughing, by which the loose astragalus must make its escape. Lower-javx—The lower-jaw cannot be dislocated so long as the mouth is closed, since tlie condyles are then firmly secured in the glenoid cavities. But when it is opened so as to bring