PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 260 mobility at the same time being mucli impaired or altogether destroyed, and permanent eversion or inversion taking place. Collections of matter now generally make their appearance, most frequently pointing on the outer side of the thigh below the trochanter major, but occasionally in the groin or hip, and issue externally through openings formed either by ulceration or artificially by the surgeon. The patient then, after a tedious ill- ness, becomes hectic and dies ; or recovers with a stiff anchylosed joint and wasted useless limb. Such being the insidious and destructive progress of the morbus coxarius, it is evidently of much consequence to ascer- taiu rhe nature and most efficient treatment of the disease. As opportunities of dissecting the paiis in the first and second stages of the morbid process very seldom occur, being confined to those cases in which the patient dies of some other disease, the origin of the evil is still involved in considerable obscurity. Different authorities, accordingly, refer it to thickening of the synovial'^, membrane, ulceration of the cartilages, and inflammation of the bones. But although the second of these opinions is the one generally received in this country, there seems good reason for considering the one last mentioned as nearer the tmth. The facts that have been collected by actual examination are in favoiir of this view, and the symptoms observed externally all lead to the same conclusion. The long existing pain at distant parts of the limb, before any trace of disease at the part really affected can be obser'ved, is strongly characteristic of chronic inflammation in the osseous tissue ; the freedom of motion with- out any crepitus, that continues during the second stage, is hardly reconcilable with either ulceration of the cartilage, or thickening of the synovial membrane ; and the perfect state of the joint in cases of recovery is not consistent with the previous existence of disease in the articular surfaces. In the third stage there is imfortunately no want of opportunity for investigation by the Icnife; but then, as always happens in diseases of the joints which have advanced to sixppuration, the whole articular ap- paratus is so involved ifi the destructive process, that the part