JOINTS. 213 opportuuities of observation, I am led to believe tliat any sncli interference is quite unnecessary, since tlie extension, if suf- ficiently powerful and properly directed, completely attains the object, as the muscles generally pull the head of the bone into its place when it has been carried far enough; but if it should seem that the margin of the acetabulum opposes any resistance to its return, the difficulty may be surmounted by drawing the upper part of the thigh outwards while the knee is still held across the soimd one. The dislocation into the ischiatic notch is produced much in the same way as that on the dorsal surface of the-ilium, but does not happen so frequently. The symptoms also' are similar, and differ only in being less marked. There is less shortening—^less bending of the affected limb over the sound one—less inversion of the toes—and less displacement of the trochanter major. In obscure cases a good diagnostic will be afforded by trying to bring the thigh into a straight line with the trunk of the body, which is impossible while the bone is thus displaced. The patient, when lying upon his back, finds it necessary either to arch the loins so that the surgeon may press his hand between them and the bed, or to keep the thigh bent upwards on the pelvis. If the back is straightened the thigh ascends, and if the thigh is laid flat the back becomes arched. The reduction is accomplished in the same way that has just been described, though it has been found to require more force to lift the head of the bone out of its preternatural situation. The dislocation downwards is caused by heavy bodies falling ■qn the hip, while the limb is in a state of abduction. The symptoms are extremely characteristic, there being elongation to the extent of an inch and a half—abduction, owing to the stretching which is suffered by the gluteal muscles—and flexion of the thigh on the pelvis, from the same cause affecting the iliams intemus and psoas magmts. These symptoms are often simulated to a very perplexing extent by the involuntary obliquity of position which the pelvis acquires from irritation of the hip-joint, occasioned by blows or other kinds of external