85 DISEASED NUTRITION. liglit hair, blue eyes, a fine skin, and florid complexion ; whence scrofiilous children often appear very healthy and thri\dng nntil they begin to suffer from the effects of their peculiar disposition. The earliest external indications of its presence are, in general, swelling of the upper lip and columna nasi, with tumefaction of the edges of the eyelids. Many exceptions occur in which all these signs are wanting ; and the patient, though of dark com- plexion, and exhibiting in other respects characters quite the re- verse of those just mentioned, betrays the strongest tendency to the disease. The scrofulous diathesis or constitution is not always equally well marked in the parents and their offspring; and its effects are much modified by circumstances. Whatever has a weaken- ing influence on the individual seems to increase the morbid tendency. Youth or sickliness of the parents—bad nursing— imwholesome or deficient food—and especially cold with mois- ture, may be particularly'mentioned as causing or contributing to this effect; and as, indeed, sufficient to induce scrofulous action without the presence of any hereditary taint. Persons who possess a scrofulous constitution are generally more liable to other diseases, and suffer from them more severely, than those whose systems are more healthy in their disposition. It is usual to name all these affections scrofulous when they occur in such circumstances, and hence gi-eat confusion continually arises. In order to avoid this, it will be better to restrict the use and signification of the term to those diseases which consist in, or proceed directly from, the morbid depositions, which have been described as the result of scrofuloiis action. In the treatment of scrofula, the first object should be to ob- viate the circumstances which increase the hereditary disposition, or produce its effect. The child should be carefully nursed, wannly clothed, and supplied with a moderate allowance of wholesome nourishing food. Cod-liver oil has been found the most powerful means of invigoration that can be employed for this purpose, in consequence, no doubt, of its nutritive rather than of any real or alleged medicinal qualities. Indeed, the internal use of iodine.