PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 4 Heat.—This is a veiy characteristic syniptoui of inflammation, and, together with the redness, has no donbt led to the choice of a title for expressing it, since in all languages the term used for this purpose denotes burning. Like the last mentioned symptom, the sensation of heat varies with the part affected. It is most remarkable in the skin, and in some parts of the mucous mem- brane, as the urethra. It was formerly believed that the patient's feeling of heat de- pended always on a real and proportionate elevation of tempera- ture ; but the application of a thermometer at once proves this opinion to be incorrect. John Hunter investigated the subject, and came to the following conclusions :—1. That the heat of an inflamed part is not commensurate with the patient's feelings. 2. That it does not exceed the standard or central heat of the individual, 3. That the greatest increase of temperature takes place in those parts which are furthest from the centre, and naturally coldest. Thus inflammation of the scrotum, induced by laying open the tunica vaginalis, raises the thermometer from 92° to 98°. But if the disease elevates the general heat of the individual, the temperature of the inflamed part rises to the same degi'ee, as in erysipelas, where the heat of the inflamed sldn is frequently 104°. Pain.—This is one of the most constant symptoms of inflam- mation. It is generally proportioned to the violence of the dis- order and the sensibility of the part afiected; but there are many exceptions to the latter part of this rule; and some tissues, as those of the osseous and fibrous kinds, which are not aU sensible in their healthy state, occasion the most acute suffering when inflamed. The sensibility of every part in the body is increased by inflammation; and if this has ever been denied, it must have been from confounding insensibility to those stimuli which recLuire, for making an impression, that the organ to which they are applied should perform a functional action for their reception, with insensibility to chemical and mechanical stimuli, which always excite more sensation when applied to an inflamed part, than to one in a healthy state. Thus during inflammation the