500 PEINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. small, round, and of a brownish colour. They possess a veiy irritable surface, and consequently maintain the inflammatory symptoms. If large and deep, they leave, on cicatrizing, a per- manent white spot named Leucoma. In treating them, the measures employed must be varied according to the acuteness of the inflammatory symptoms; but when these are of a chronic kind, as is usually the case, the solution of nitrate of sUver always produces the best effects, and has now completely superseded a practice, formerly much in use, of touching the ulcers with a pointed stick of the lunar caustic. "Wlien the ulcers frequently recur, they will be found to depend on some indirect irritation, such as that caused by an unhealthy state of the digestive organs ; and of course any such source of disturbance ought to be removed as soon as possible. Opacity of the cornea varies in extent and depth. It always proceeds from organizable effusion into the natural textiu'e of the part; but this may be induced in three ways :—1. Inflam- mation, leading to effusion in the superficial conjunctival cover- ing of the cornea; 2. Effusion of lymph into the substance of the cornea with or without purulent matter; 3. Cicatrization of an ulcer. The first of these is named ITebula, the second Albugo, and the third Leucoma. Nebula is a very common consequence of conjunctival inflammation, especially in chUdi'en. It occa- sions various degrees of opacity, according to which, and also its situation in regard to the pupil, it interferes more or less with vision. The remedy consists in the introduction of stimulating applications, which promote absorption. Of these the solution of nitrate of silver is the most efficient. Albugo and leucoma hardly admit of removal The treatment just mentioned some- times produces diminution of the opacity, and is certainly pre- ferable to the more severe measures which have been proposed, such as excision or pxmcturing, since they not only do no good, but generally increase the evU. Pterygium is a fleshy-looldng growth of firm consistence, and flat triangular form. It is seated in the conjunctival covering of the sclerotic or cornea, always beginning in the former, and