125 BLOOD-VESSELS. Qu the acromial side of the plexus of vessels and nerves, in order to avoid the vein, will find the artery, and be able to include it in the ligature. The subclavian artery can be much more easily and advanta- geously tied above the clavicle, immediately after it passes out behind the scalenus anticus, where it is more superficial, detached from the vein, and at a greater distance from the disease. Mr. Eamsden had the merit of first performing the operation here (1808); and, though the case terminated imfavourably, it led to others, which have established this as the best mode of proceed- ing for the purpose. Dr. Post of New York met with the first instance of success (1817). The method of operating described by Mr. Eamsden has hardly been improved. The patient being placed on his back with the head rather lower than the trunk, and his shoulder having been depressed as much as possible, an incision should be made along the upper edge of the clavicle, from the insertion of the steruo-mastoid to that of the trapezius. Another cut, per- pendicular to the former, and of about the same length, ought next to be carried from its centre upwards, parallel with the external edge of the sterno-mastoid. The flaps thus formed should be reflected with the platysma myoides and fat—the jugular vein being, if possible, avoided or held aside; and then the surgeon dissecting down to the lower edge of the inferior belly of the omo-hyoideus, exposes the scalenus anticus, taking care not to cut the supra-scapular artery, which must be tied if wounded. Tracing this muscle to its insertion into the first rib, he is led infallibly to the artery which passes out behind it, immediately above its attachment. He then either carries the needle round the vessel where thus exposed, or, in case of its shewing any sign of morbid alteration, uncovers it a little further, by cutting or turning back the edge of the scalenus—in doing which there is no danger of injuring the phrenic nerve, as it lies here quite at the sternal edge of the muscle, having crossed it obliquely in descending from the cervical plexus. It appears from the cases on record, that the large nerves going