PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 414 ing the staff. 2. The artery of the bulb of the urethra, and the bulb itself, from cutting into the canal too far forwards, and at its lateral part. 3. The pudic ai-tery, from cutting too much in a lateral direction in making the section of the prostate. 4. The internal fascia of the perineum, or vesical reflexion of the pelvic fascia, from cutting the prostate upwards, or carrying the incision beyond it in a lateral direction. Wlien the operation is to be performed, the patient should have his bowels freely evacuated by a laxative administered the day before. He should be placed reclining on a table about two feet and a half high, covered with a folded blanket, and under his head a pillow or two may be laid, but nothing to raise tlie shoulders. He is then to seize the soles of his feet, one in each hand, which should rest on the fibular or outer edge, and by \ means of a strong tape or bandage have the limbs secured in this position, after which they are to be confided to two assistants, one standing on each side of the table. The staff having been introduced is now to be committed to a third assistant, who holds it in one hand, and the scrotum in the other. The surgeon then •seats himself on a chair, shaves off the hair from the perineum, ■feels the different parts that determine the place of his incision, and resting the fingers of his left hand on the skin so as to pre- ■ vent any displacement of it, pushes his knife directly inwards at the anterior point of incision to the depth of the perineal muscles. He cuts in the direction above mentioned so as to divide the skin, fat, superficial fascia, and transverse muscle, gradually diminish- ing the depth of his incision until it reaches its posterior termin- ation; then introducing the fingers of the left hand into the wound, to serve as a guide for the laiife and protection to the '•■ rectum, he cuts so as to divide the anterior part of the levator ani, and expose the membranous portion of the urethra, into which he makes an opening, and then, keeping the knife in the gi-oove, while he satisfies himself, by taking the staff in his left hand, that it is held properly in the mesial plane close up against the pubis, he gives it again to the assistant, and pushes the knife steadil}' into the bladder, and fairly through the prostate ; at the same