546 PEINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. nose or adjacent parts, always superficial in the first instance, and generally contimiing so, l)ut sometimes extending more deeply and causing extensive destruction of the face. It presents various appearances, but in general has the character of healing at one part while it extends at another. The ulcer is usually covered with a scab, and surrounded with inflamed skin. The disease, though left to itself, sooner or later suffers a spontaneous cure, but seldom until great deformity is occasioned by its ravages. It occurs chiefly in youth, and affects females more frequently than males. The treatment of this affection is very unsatisfactory, since the mode employed often proves unavailing, or procures merely a temporary amendment. The general health, if deranged, ought to be restored if possible by an appropriate course of alterative medicine and diet; but it is on local applications that the principal reliance is usually placed. Of these, different prepara- tions of arsenic are regarded as the most ef&cient; but I have found most advantage from the use of caustic potass. Restoration of the Nose. The nose may be defective as a fault of original formation, or from the effects of violence, or in consequence of ulceration. The want of this feature not only causes a most disagi'eeable deformity, but impairs the sense of smell, and exposes the patient to annoyance from the entrance of foreign matters into the nostrils. Ingenious practitioners have endeavoured to con- struct a substitute for the lost part, by attaching in its place a flap of skin taken from some other part of the body. There are two methods that have been chiefly followed in doing this, which are named the Italian and Indian. The former was contrived and practised by Taliacotius. It consisted in dissect- ing from the arm a flap of skin, uniting one of its edges to the face, wliile the other remained attached to the arm, and after the iinion was completed, separating the piece of skin entirely from the arm, fashioning it properly for representing the nose, and completing its union with the face. This operation seems to