PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 86 to whicli the agency of tlais oil has been ascribed, so far from being beneficial, appears very nnich opposed to the object in view. If necessaiy, mild means should be used to correct derangement of the intestinal secretions ; but nothing is more injurious than to keep up incessant irritation of the canal by frequently administering purgative medicines, the necessity for which may almost always be advantageously superseded by proper regulation of the diet and exercise. Should the indications which have been mentioned, or the parentage of the patient, lead to the persuasion that the disposition to the disease is very strong, the place of residence, if cold and moist, ought, if possible, to be changed for one that is dry and warm. When the scrofulous depositions are actually formed, the greatest care must be used to guard against the operation of all direct and indirect irritations, which might tend to excite their inflammation or suppui'ation. The means proper for this purpose depend on the part of the body affected, and will be explained hereafter ; but on all occasions it is right to attend to the climate, the regimen, and the secretions of the patient. Local aj^plications seem to have little power in causing absorption of scrofulous tumours ; and it should be carefully recollected, that the exciting influence through which they prove beneficial, if not duly regu- lated, may occasion inflammation and suppuration. When the abscess is seated in a part of the body exposed to view, as the neck, it becomes important to determine what mode of treatment will render the resulting cicatrix least observable. Sir A. Cooper strongly recommended a^small puncture to be made with a lancet so soon as any matter is formed, and that then the remain- ing scrofulous substance should be squeezed out. The result of many trials leads me to conclude that it is seldQ|i if ^|^' pos- sible in this way to effect evacuation complete^ ^(i^Pwhat seems to be the safest practice, is to let the matter be very fiiUy formed before opening the abscess, blister repeatedly, and then make a free incision. Various drugs are used empirically under the specious pretext of producing a gi-adual imj)rovement on the patient s constitution. The muriate of lime is one of these; and