404 PRINCIPLES OF SUKGEllY. arm, if he is of a robust habit. Sooner or later the passage is completed, and there are few preparations more rarely met with in museums than those shewing a renal calculus areested in the ureter. Having arrived in the bladder, the calculi either remain there, or proceed onwards through the urethra. In the former case, they become encrusted with layers of various thickness and com- position, as has been already explained, and constitute concre- tions which differ widely, according to the circumstances that attend their formation. The following arrangement includes the most important kinds :— I Name. Uric Acid Cal- ciilus. (Sclieele, 1776.) External Cliaracters. Colour, browiisli-yellow ; surface smootb, or elevated iiito small tubercles ; shape generally flattened - oval; size, from that of a large egg, downwards; sti-ucture laminated; very common. Chemical Cliaracters. Gradually consiuned before the blowpipe ; soluble in caustic potash, insoluble in diluted acids; but soluble in nitric acid, the solution affording, on evaporation to di'yness, a bright car- mine-coloiu'ed residue. II. Phosphate of lime, C. CWoUaston, 1797.) Colour, pale-brown ; sur- face smooth, like porce- lain ; sti'ucture loosely la- minated ; small size; ex- ti'emely rare, as forming entire concretions, but not so imfrequently constitut- ing alternate layers with other matters. Whitens when exposed to the blowpipe ; soluble in muriatic acid ; insoluble in caustic potash, and does not give off ammonia. III. TrJple phos- phate I of mag- nesia land am- monia c. (Wollasfon, 1797.) (See froAtispiece.) IV. Fumble cal- culus Uconsist- ing of SI combi- nation i of the two last). ("Wollasto^, 1797.) White shining crystals, or white crust, not forming entire concretions, but coat- ing the surface, or lying between the layers of others, and never exhibit- ing in its own stinictui'e a laminated arrangement. Colour, white like chalk ; shape that of the cavity in which it lies; size often very large ; sti'uctiire la- minated, or compact and friable ; common, as an in- crustation of foreign bodies. Diminishes under the blow- pipe ; exhaling an ammo- niacal odour, and at last suiTering imperfect fusion ; soluble in dilute acids, and insoluble in caustic potash, but gives ofi' ammonia. Eeadily fused under the blowpipe into a trans- parent glass; partially soluble in acetic or ililute sulplmric acid, and the re- mainder dissolved by mu- riatic acid ; insoluble^ in caustic potash, but gives off ammojiia.