PEINCIPLE3 OF SUEGERY. 442 the operation must be trusted to the gradual effects of that ten- dency to reparation which is exerted by the system. The penis should be enveloped ia lint moistened with acetate of lead lotion, and the patient ought to maintain the horizontal posture, until the parts resume their natural condition. Cancer of tJie Penis. The penis is frequently the seat of cancer. Ulcers on it often assume the most alarming appearance, and exhibit extreme in- disposition to heal, ia consequence of constitutional peculiarities, especially that induced by the prejudicial use of mercury; but such sores should be carefully distinguished from those of a truly carcinomatous nature. The latter are met with in persons of ad- vanced age. They are characterised by the inequality of their surface, the cartilaginous hardness of their base, their fetid dis- charge, and lancinating pain. The inguinal and Uiac glands become affected in the progi'ess of the disease, and the patient dies hectic from continued irritation. The only remedy that affords any prospect of a radical cure is removal of the morbid part, and this, of course, only when the glands are untainted. The operation, therefore, ought to be per- formed without delay, so soon as the disease is distinctly recog- nised to be of this malignant kind. The penis may be amputated without any ceremony,—care only being taken that the whole of the disease is removed, together with a portion of the neigh- bouring sound tissues. The integuments are more apt to prove redundant than defective, and therefore need not be saved by drawing them back previous to division. The arteries that require ligatures are to be tied, and the oozing of blood may be restrained by the application of cold water, or by effecting pressure on the stump after a flexible catheter has been introduced into the bladder. Lest the orifice of the urethra should contract during the cure, a bougie must be introduced occasionally to preserve its proper width.