542 PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. growths possess a soft, but rather tough consistence, and yellowish-gray colour; they bleed slightly when injured, and have not much sensibility; they often contain collections of limpid fluid, so as to constitute thin bags. These are named Simple, Mucous, or Benign Polypi. They grow from the mucous membrane generally, where it covers the upper part of the nostrils, sometimes where it lies upon the inferior spongy bone, but never from the septum. They seldom exist singlj, and are often met with in numbers together. One^jiostril is very rargly. affected alone. They occur at aU periods of life, but are most frequent about middle age. They enlarge until the cavity is filled, and then remain stationary, without causing any expansion of the face by the pressure proceeding from their con- tinued increase. The symptoms which they occasion are, obstruction of respiration, an uneasy sensation of stuffing of the head, dulness or total loss of smeU and taste, and sometimes deafness. It is generally observed that these symptoms are most distinct in moist weather, and least so in an opposite state of the atmosphere. The treatment of mucous polypus consists in removing them; and though various methods have been employed for this purpose, there can be no doubt that the best mode of effect- ing it is evulsion by forceps. The instrument must be so small that its blades can be passed up along the sides of ^the polj^ius to its root, where they should be fixed by strong compression of the handles. The surgeon then, by a compound movement of pulling and twisting, the latter of which should be steadily in one direction, endeavours to disengage the connections of the tumour. He may fail in the first or several.subsequent attempts, but by careful and persevering efforts, guided by acquaintance with the shape of the cavity, he is sure of ultimately eradicating the disease. Except in those rare cases where the polypus is single, the patient can hardly be completely relieved by one operation ; and the nostrils, though seemingly quite cleared, arc again and again found more or less occupied by a similar excrescence. The cause of this is probably not so much repro-