311 THOKAX. and it could not be made lower tlian tlie ninth or tenth without incm-ring the danger of injuring the diaj)hragm. The intercostal spaces not thus interdicted are thickly covered with muscles for a third part of theu' extent at least, from both the sternal and vertebral extremities; and at these parts the intercostal arteries are more exposed to danger than m that which lies between the angles and the cartilages of the ribs. The principal vessel of each intercostal space rims along the lower edge of the superior rib, overlapped and protected by the sharp descending ridge of its external margin,—but a branch of the artery proceeds along the upper border of the lower rib,—and the safest place, conse- quently, for cutting through the parietes is equidistant between the two ribs that circumscribe the space selected for the opera- tion. It appears, on the whole, therefore, that the best situation for operating is between the fifth and eighth ribs on the right side, and the sixth and ninth on the left, where the presence of the pericardium renders it prudent to cut lower, at an equal distance from the sternum and spine, and in the middle of the space between the two ribs. The patient should be laid on a sofa, or brought to the edge of his bed, and be made to bend his body so as to ren- der the affected side of the chest as convex as possible. The surgeon then introduces a small trocar, without any prelimi- nary incision of the integuments, and withdraws the canula when the fluid has escaped. Diseases of the Mamma. The Mamma is liable to so many diseases that it is necessary to make a classification of them. They may be divided into— 1. Those in which there is merely derangement of its nutritive or sensitive action, caxising' simple enlargement, induration, and pain ; 2. Those in which there is a collection of purulent fluid ; 3. Those in which there is a morbid growth limited to the part in which it originates ; and, 4. Those in which the gi'owth is of a malignant kind—that is, tends to spread, ulcerate, or fungate, and affect the patient's constitution.