PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 198 injured part, can sometimes be used for most of the purposes for wliich it is required. In ununited fracture of the thigh bone, the limb is always distorted, from the imperfect resistance opposed by the broken bone to the contraction of the muscles, and there thus results an arched form of the thigh. On the convexity of this arch, which is directed outwards and forwards, a cushion formed of a sheet or table-cloth, folded into the requisite size, is placed, and upon this is made to rest the long splint, which is then drawn tightly towards the knee and pelvis. There is thus not only exerted a constant force, urging the bone into its straight direction, but also the most perfect stability afforded to the frac- tured surfaces. Within the last few years I have succeeded com- pletely in six cases of unimited fracture of the humerus—some of which were of no less than twelve months' standing—by envelop- ing the whole limb, from the scapula to the finger-points, in a firm starch and pasteboard case, which was prepared before the opera- tion of excising the ends of the bone, taken off at the time of its performance, and reapplied when the wound had nearly healed. Inflammation of Bone. Inflammation of the periosteum, and that of the bone itself, frequently occur together, give rise to similar symptoms, and requii-e nearly the same treatment. The former, or Periostitis, is characterised by deep-seated aching pain, and thickening of the integuments, which adliere to the part affected. These symptoms vaiy much in the degree of their acuteness, and are accordingly accompanied with more or less constitutional derangement. The disease frequently becomes periodically aggravated, ^d is apt to be increased by all sorts of excitement. It is usually most severe during the night, and after meals. The periosteum is most liable to inflammation where it covers bones near the siu'- face of the body, as the shin-bone, the skull-cap, the clavicle, and sternum. In the chronic form of the disease, it is generally possible to trace the operation of a predisposing, as well as of an exciting, cause. The former seems to consist in derangement of the system