287 TENDONS. greatly distended, and the patient loses the use of the limb until the disease is remedied. Although this condition does not materially differ from that of other bursal sacs, which, when so deranged, yield without much difficulty to remedial treatment, it has proved peculiarly obstinate under the means of remedy formerly in use, and indeed was regarded as nearly, if not alto- gether, incurable. Blisters, and similar applications, produced little or no beneficial effect, and puncturing the tumour where most prominent in the wrist or palm afforded no permanent advantage, as the wound either continued to discharge, or closed without obliteration of the cavity. The last patient treated thus in the Eoyal Infirmary died from the protracted local and con- stitutional disturbance so excited ; and this case led me to reflect seriously on the subject, in order to discover the cause of obstinacy, and devise a safer remedy. The only peculiarity that I could notice was the constriction caused by the annular ligament, above or below which the opening had always been made, and which might perhaps so interfere with the healing process as to occasion the obstinacy in question. In this view of the matter, it appeared that the proper site for an incision was at and through the ligamentous arch itseff. I took the earliest opportunity of trying the effect of such a procedure, which was so satisfactory as at once to estab- lish the operation. Its results in my own practice, and that of others, have, so far as I know, been uniformly successful. The easiest mode of operation is to puncture the swelling a little above or below the annular ligament, then introduce a blunt-pointed curved bistoury under the arch, and, lastly, divide it together with the superjacent integuments. Light and super- ficial dressing are sufficient in the first instance; and if the swelling does not speedily subside, one or two blisters may be applied. The superficial bursa lying over the olecranon is subject to irritation and acute inflammation from blows, but not unfre- quently suffers an accumulation of fluid with thickening of the membrane, and sometimes also with the formation of internal