INFLAMMATION. 25 coutain to escape, after wliicli the surface is to be dressed with some simple ointment. In order to prolong the irritation of blisters, it used to be customary to dress the raw part with an ointment containing savine leaves, or the powder of cantharides, which prevented it from healing, and maintained a discharge of matter. When continued mitation is required, it is now more frequently effected by the tartrate of antimony, wliich, when applied to the skin either in solution or ointment, occasions a pustular eruption, that may be regulated as to extent and dura- tion by the same means. Another mode of causing permanent counter-iiTitation, is to institute a discharge of matter from a breach in the continuity of the skin. The introduction of a seton used to be, and still is, with many people a favourite way of effecting this. The opera- tion is most easily dobe with a seton-needle,—an instrument shaped like a lancet, aboiit three inches long, three-eighths of an inch broad, slightly curved, and having an eye at the blunt end. A fold of skin being held up, the needle is pushed through, and by its means a thread, to which a skein of silk or cotton sufficient to fQl the aperture can then be introduced. In absence of the needle, a straight sharp-pointed bistoury and probe wiU be found to answer nearly as weU, In a few days, when the discharge of matter commences, a new seton may be passed by drawing it through the loop of the old one—and this may theii be repeated daily. Issues are now more frequently employed with this view. They are merely breaches in the surface caused by the knife, caustic, or the actual cautery; that is, red-hot ii'on, Wlien the knife is used, it should be pushed through a fold of the sldn, and then some foreign bodies must be placed in the wound to prevent it from healing. The caustic potass is generally em- X)loyed for opening issues. It may either be applied for three or four hours made into a paste with soap or bread, and limited in its operation by a defence of adhesive plaster, having an aperture cut in it of the requisite size, or simply rubbed in sub- stance upon the skin until the alteration of colour and consis- tence indicates that its effect is sufficient. In cither case, after