PEINCJPLES OF SQEGERY. 512 cataract is soft or fluid, the curved one used for couching, but iC it is firm, the edge should be straight and sharp. The pupil ought always to be fuUy dilated, and the eye as well as the patient prepared for the operation in the manner already ex- plained in regard to couching. The needle should be intro- duced at the distance of a line from the sclerotic or cornea, according as it is wished to operate anteriorly or posteriorly. It should be directed to the centre of the cataract, and made to lacerate its texture as extensively as possible. It has been found that the fragments disappear sooner in the anterior than ; in the posterior chambers, and therefore they ought to be urged forwards into it. The process of amendment goes on a long while, extending to weeks and months after this operation, but one or more repetitions of it are frequently required before the cure is completed. As the irritation produced is generally very incon- siderable, this is of little consequence. If a large fragment of the lens, or the whole of it, escapes into the anterior chamber, though solution may take place, there is great risk of such severe or continued irritation as may require its extractioii through an opening cut into the cornea. In relation to the choice of these different methods of operat- ing, it may be observed that the introduction of chloroform has greatly facilitated extraction, and divested it of the objections to which it was formerly exposed, while its advantages in cases of hard cataract remain of unquestionable superiority. Malignant Diseases of the Eyeball. Cancer rarely originates in the eye, though it occasionally extends to it from the neighbouring parts. But medullary sar- coma occurs in it more frequently than in any other part of the body, except the bones, mamma, and testicle. Infants are chiefly subject to its attack, but adults occasionally suffer from it. Tlie retina is generally the part first affected, but in the progress of the disease all the textures entering into tlie fonnation of the eyeball become involved. The first symptoms are blindness, and a greenish or dusky-red colour of the pupil. Then the eye