135 BLOOD-VESSELS, very generally purulent effusions, in tlie cavities of the chest, those of the joints, or in the subcutaneous cellular texture, to- gether with deposits in the substance of the lungs, very similar in appearance to tubercles. The explanation of these effects has not yet been well made out; but the opinion generally received at present is, that the pus suffers absorption into the mass of cir- culating fluid, and thus produces the effects in question. In proportion as the inflammation is chronic, the danger is small. The local effects are, in the first instance, redness and thickening of the vessel, then suppuration into the cavity, or the effusion of lymph, which, together with coagulation of the blood, just as happens in the arteries in similar circumstances, impedes the cir- culation, and obliterates the channels affected. The veins are induced to take on the adhesive action by compression, and the other kinds of irritation which occasion it in the arteries, but they are much more readily excited by these means to inflame. The atheromatous and calcareous degenerations occur so rarely in their coats, that they may almost be said never to affect them. The causes which have most effect and are most frequently concerned in the production of inflammation in the veins, may be referred to: immoderate or long-continued distension, and the infliction of wounds which do not heal by the first intention. John Hunter, who had the merit of directing attention to the causes and important consequences of venous inflammation, when they were almost entirely overlooked, observed that the veins running near parts which had suffered inflammation and suppu- ration took on a similar action, and effused pus or lymph, or both, into their cavities. Succeeding inquiry has ascertained that this is not a constant, or even very common occurrence ; and it is possible that he may have sometimes mistaken the effect for the cause, the abscesses in the cases he observed being perhaps the consequence of venous inflammation, and not the origin of it. Of all the causes which induce inflammation of veins, there is none more certain than the infliction of a wound which does not heal by the first intention. When the wound does not Ileal by the first intention, it must of course inflame ; and