ABDOMEN. 343 aud injections. 5. That the operation is attended with least danger in cases where the tumour is small and recent; and with most where it is large and of old standing. When the operation is judged necessary, the patient should be brought to the edge of his bed, so as to present the groin in a favourable position. His shoulders ought to be elevated a little, and the thigh of the affected side is to be slightly bent. The operator having shaved off the hairs, makes an incision about three inches long, in the direction of the inguinal canal, begin- ning rather above the commencement of the tumour, and con- tinned down the middle or most projecting part of it, towards the bottom. This incision is most conveniently accomplished by lifting up a fold of the integuments, together with as much as possible of the loose cellular tissue exterior to the tense parietes of the tumour, and running the knife through it with the back turned towards the sac. If the superficial epigastric, or any other artery of the integuments which may have been cut, threatens to bleed much, it should be tied before going further. The surgeon has then to divide the layers of fasciee which cover the sac; and the old method of doing this was to cut them suc- cessively upon a grooved director thrust under them, so as to elevate portion by portion. Instead of a practice so tedious and perplexing, it is better to dissect through the coverings by raising them with the forceps, cutting the fold thus elevated with the knife held parallel to the sac, and then dividing each layer in succession, upwards and downwards, to the extent of the external incision. In general the peritoneum may be recognised by a bluish appearance which it presents, owing to the presence of fluid contained within it, and by its more loose connections than those of the superjacent parts ; but these characters are deceptive; and it is fortunately not necessai^ that this recognition should be effected previous to opening the sac. If it is opened in the same way that has been recommended for cutting through the fascise, there will be no danger of wounding the contained viscera; and so soon as they are exposed, the dark colour of the intestine, and the smooth glistening internal surface of its