PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. IIG needle, though introduced carefully and properly, sometimes occasions a pretty copious flow of blood, which fills the wound almost as rapidly as it is wiped out, but ceases upon the liga- ture being tied, and probably depends upon the injury of a small branch happening to come off at the part. The edges of the wound should be brought together with a couple of stitches, and lightly dressed. / After this operation, there is a greater difficulty to be en- /countered, in the establishment of an adequate channel for the blood by the anastomosing branches, than occurs in most other cases, as the perforating and external circumflex branches of the profunda pour their contents into those of the articular arteries, and these rising fi'om the popliteal portion of the vessel, which becomes obstructed by the coagulation that follows the operation, must transmit the blood into other branches communicating lower down with the unimpeded arteries of the leg. The limb, therefore, should be protected from cold, and also from any sort of excitement. If it is wished to tie the femoral artery below the crossing of the sartorius, an incision should be made in the middle of the thigh, commencing about three inches lower than where that for the former %)eration terminates. The external or fibular edge of the sartorius being exposed, should be drawn inwards, when a strong tendinous fascia passing from the vastus externus to the triceps will be brought into view; and when it has been divided, the sheath wiU appear, containing the artery and vein, in the same relative situation as they were at the other part of their course. The operation should then be completed as already described. Though the ligature of the femoral artery is not attended with much difficulty, it is frequently followed by bad conse- quences. It has long been my conviction that these depend upon the operation being considered too easy, and therefore con- ducted without sufficient attention being paid to the circum- stances above mentioned, in regard to exposing the arteiy and avoiding the vein. In my own practice, as already stated, T