BONES. 193 direct violence,- occasions nearly the same symptoms as fractured clavicle, but not so well marked, and requires similar treatment. The neck of the scapid.a is broken by violence, transmitted thi'ough the humerus. The symptoms of this fracture are filling up of the axillary cavity by the head of the h\imerus,—a hollow imder the acromion process from the bone being out of its place, —and easy restoration of the parts to their natural position, when the shoulder is gently extended outwards ; during which adjustment there is usually some crepitus perceived. The treat- ment required is the same as that recommended for fracture of the neck of the humerus. The nasal bones, though very thin at their extremity, be- coming gradually tliicker towards their connection with the os frontis, and having a strong support afforded to them by the projecting process of this bone, on which, together with the ascending branches of the superior maxillary, they are firmly placed, suffer fracture less frequently than might be expected from their exposed situation. The fracture, when it does occur, is generally comminuted, and easily recognised by the striking deformity which arises from the flatteniag and obliquity of the nose necessarily attending it. A great degree of violence being requisite to occasion the injury, there is usually much swelling, which is apt to conceal the displacement of the bones, if the ex- amination be not made immediately after the accident is sus- tained. Whence it is proper, in all cases where the injuiy may be suspected, to search very carefully for it, since the inevitable consequence of its being overlooked wo\ild be a deformity equally disagreeable and irremediable. The depressed portions of bone may be easily elevated before they become consolidated by the effusion that ensues, and after being pressed up into their proper places by a pair of dressing forceps, or other suitable in- strument, generally remain without requu'ing permanent support. Should they prove not sufficiently steady, a piece of lint ought to be carefully introduced, so as to distend the upper part of the cavity. The lower jaw, though much exposed to violence by its