284 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. than this, as lotions with pressure are much more beneficial. When the tendons slough so extensively as to render the finger rigid and useless, amputation is the most prudent course ; and the patient will generally decide upon it after being made fully acquainted with the reasons for its performance. The distal phalanx often dies, along with a portion of the tendon, but the extremity of the finger ought not to be removed on this account, as it is of great consequence to preserve the secreting organ of the nail, which renders the finger, tliough shortened, little less useful or seemly than it was before. Ganglion. By Ganglion is understood a tiimour connected with a tendon, composed of a bag containing a glairy fluid, and varying in size from that of a pea to that of a pigeon's egg. There is a differ- ence of opinion as to the nature of ganglions, the question beiug whether they are entirely new formations, or merely develop- ments of the natural serous structure connected with the tendons. Though arguments might be adduced to support the former of these opinions, it seems on the whole more reasonable to adopt the latter. The bags vary greatly in thickness, and their contents are no less dissimilar in respect of consistence, being sometimes per- fectly watery, biit in general glairy like the white of eggs. The disease occurs most frequently at the wrist and ankle, the ex- tensor tendons of the fingers and toes being affected. Females are more liable to it than males. It seldom produces inconveni- ence, except from the deformity which it occasions, but some- times the patient complains of weakness in the limb. It is generally referred to over-exertion, but there is nothing certainly known as to the causes of its production. The most simple and effectual mode of treatment is to rup- ture the bag by pressure applied externally, and force its contents into the surrounding cellular texture. For this purpose some recommend that the ganglion should be struck a smai't blow with a book or similar body ; but this is a violent and uncer-