SKIN. 485 coated with a yellowish-wliite fur, inclining to be dry ; the skin is very hot, often raising the thermometer to 104°; the patient complains of an insufferable burning sensation all over the body; his countenance has a yellow hue and anxious expression ; his mind is weak, and apt to wander. The mucous membranes of the lungs and intestines are often in an excited state, giving rise, by their increased secretion, to crepitation in breathing, and diarrhcea. The disease is extremely distressing and in general very obstinate, recurring again and again after the principal attack appears to have been subdued; but it does not often prove fatal. When death does ensue, it happens either from derangement of some internal organ, especially the brain and limgs, or from exhaustion caused by the continuance of the fever. Erythema is sometimes associated with an inflammatory state of the subjacent cellular substance, which is distended so as to cause a puffy sort of swelling, and generally soon after- wards becomes the seat of purulent effusion, or not unfrequently of slousfhing. The disease generally appears in persons on the surface of whose bodies there is a solution of continuity. This may be either recent or of old standing, but the latter condition seems on the whole most favourable to attacks of the disease. The patient is rendered more liable to be attacked by having a bad constitution, or one disordered by an unhealthy mode of life. The grand exciting cause seems to be some peculiarity of the atmosphere, such as that existing in crowded, ill-ventilated' hospitals, or even in open situations during particular seasons. In such circumstances, the wound, if recent, is often nearly healed before the er^'thema appears. The erythema commences in the neighbourhood of the sore, and then leaving the sldn there in its natural state, travels over the trunk or limbs, or nearly every part of the body in succession. There is hardly any treatment of a local kind that can be used with advantage. Leeching or cupping the inflamed part affords relief for the time, but seems to have no effect in arresting the progress of the disease. Of internal remedies, the most iiseful in the first in-