150 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. lead with opiuni. Local bleediug would increase the weakness, and consequently render the diseased action more unmanage- able ; but general depletion will be proper if the patient is plethoric. Should mortification ensue, the best dressing will be a soft poultice until the sloughs separate. Burns.—"When a part is exposed to higher temperatures than usual, it becomes red, more or less swelled, and hot. If the heat applied is moderate, or of short duration, these symptoms dis- appear when it is removed; but when it is intense, or longer continued, the redness caused by it is bright and permanent, and there is a jpainful sensation of burning. The part is then said to be burnt, wliile in the former case it was merely excited. The inflammation thus induced may terminate ra effusion of serum from the surface of the cutis, which detaches the cuticle, and elevates it into blisters. When the heat is stUl more intense or prolonged, it destroys the life of the part. The cuticle is then detached and thrown iato iiTegular folds, exposing the subjacent cutis discoloured and dry. When the heat operates through the medium of fluids, its effects are named Scalds. Burns and scalds are always paiuful,—often long in heahng, owing to the feeble action of the resulting ulcer, which is seated m parts that have been more or less injured by the heat,—and sometimes fatal by the shock to which they subject the constitution, by the profuse suppuration which they occasion, or by exciting inflam- mation of some internal pait. In treating burns, it is necessary to consider whether the injury is so severe as to destroy the vitality of the part affected, or merely sufficient to induce inflammation of it. In the latter case cold apphcations afford great relief, and if employed imme- diately after the accident occurs, may prevent the inflammation and vesication altogether. Another mode of treatment which answers extremely well, though it is difficult to say on what principle, consists in enveloping the burnt part with cotton. This practice was introduced from America, and is now in very general use. It appears that its good effects are most conspi- cuous when pressure is conjoined with it; and a bandage