THORAX. 313 fomentations may be used with advantage, or a litharge plaster may be applied over it; but local treatment is to be regarded as of secondary importance, since the disease almost always depends upon the state of the general health, and is to be remedied by its improvement. With this view, any derangement of the intestinal or menstrual secretions, which is ascertained to exist, must be, if possible, rectified without delay; and then a gentle course of alterative medicine, especially the saline laxatives, used daily, with due attention to the mental condition of the patient, oxight to be carefully employed. The mamma sometimes becomes the seat of uneasy sensa- tions so distressing and unceasing as fully to warrant the appro- priation of a particular title to express them. The Irritable breast is generally met with in middle-aged women, of nervous disposition, who have been much exposed to grief, disappoint- ment, or anxiety. It is recognised by the extreme suffering of the patient, who represents the pain as equally intolerable and indescribable. It never leaves her entirely, but has remissions of partial relief, and exacerbations in which the agony is extreme. These paroxysms are induced by everything that directly or in- directly occasions excitement. Pressure, as that applied in examining the breast, agitation of mind, and derangement of the secretions, are the most certain means of producing this effect. When the patient submits to an examination of the painful part, it is felt to be a little fuller and denser than usual; sometimes engaging the whole gland, and at others being confined to a single lobe, or a stiU. smaller portion. In cases where the symptoms are mild, great or even complete relief is sometimes obtained from fomentations and other soothing local applications, together with the internal medicines requisite for restoring to a healthy state the secretions that may be deranged. If these means prove unavailing, and the patient suffers such distress that she insists upon the seat of the pain being removed, this wish must some- times be complied with in order to aUay the apprehension of malignant disease, which greatly aggravates the complaint by agitating the mind. The gland, when cut into, displays a some-