PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 194 situation, is comparatively seldom broken, owing to its mobility and strength. The fracture is usually seated in the base of the bone, opposite the bicuspid teeth. It is sometimes confined to one side, sometimes exists in both. It very rarely happens in the ramiis, and is hardly ever met with at the symphysis. The nature and seat of the injury are readily recognised, owing to the thinness of the parts which cover the jaw; and it is generally observed that the portion of the bone next the chin is depressed, partly by its own weight, partly by the action of the muscles which connect it with the os hyoides. The broken surfaces are easily retained in contact, by tying up the jaw' with a handkerchief, or any similar bandage. A pasteboard splint is sometimes applied along the front and sides of the bone, but is in general quite unnecessary. Another contrivance frequently recommended appears, if possible, still less necessary—viz., interposing a piece of wood or cork between the teeth, grooved so as to receive them in a chamael both above and below. This is done to restrain motion of the jaw, and afiford room for the introduction of nourishnient; but the shape of the teeth effectually prevents any lateral movement when they are held together by a bandage, and there are always suf- ficient interstices between them to admit the entrance of soups or other fluid articles of food, which kind of nutriment alone the patient is of coiu-se able to consume, when deprived of the power of mastication. In cases where, owing to the obliquity of the fracture, or any other cause, it is found unusually difficult to maintain the edges of the bone in contact, a thread or silver wire may be tied or twisted round the roots of the adjoining teeth, so as to draw them together; but this expedient should not be resorted to unnecessarily, since it is apt to loosen the teeth concerned. . The ribs are generally broken by direct violence, but also by pressure applied to their extremities, which difference in the cause has been supposed to modify the consequences of the ac- cident ; siace, when the fracture is caused by direct -\dolence, the rough spicula of bone are projected inwards, and readily in-