JOINTS. 249 queiitly-repeated doses, is a most valuable remedy, not only by allaying violent action, but also by promoting the secretions of the skin and mucous membranes. When the inflammation is sub-acute, warm fomentations, anodyne liniments, such as the liniment of soap and opiiim, with the iirternal use of diaphoretic mediciues, as Dover's Powder, calomel and opium, or vinum colcldci, afford most relief. In its chronic state, counter-irritation effected by stimulating liniments, blisters, tartrate of antimony, setons, and issues, especially those made by the actual cautery, "with perfect rest, and a moderate degree of pressure, are the means wluch deserve most confidence. In preventing motion, and effecting the compression deemed requisite, the best means certainly consist in the application of leather splints. Pieces of bend-leather, cut to the proper size, having been moistened and placed on each side of the joint, are closely moulded to its form by the pressure of a common roller. When dry and rigid, they are taken off and lined with some thinner and softer leather; after which they are again bandaged on, and employed so long as may be necessary. In cases where the knee is severely affected it is very important to prevent motion of the anlde-joint also, and for this • purpose I find nothing so useful as a sj^lint of iron wire covered with chamois leather, extending from the middle of the thigh to the toes. Dropsy of the Joints. The synovial membranes of the joints, though all similar to each other, and resembhug in structure as well as function the serous coverings of the soft parts, are not equally subject to dropsical effusion. It is extremely common in that of the knee, but very rare in all the others. Dropsy of the knee-joint is occasioned by a great variety of circumstances. It occurs most frequently in persons of weak and irritable constitutions; who often suffer from it in consequence of very slight direct initation, such as twists and bruises, or the indirect operation of exposure to cold. It is met with, however, occasionally in the strongest frames ; but then the irritation is