19 INFLAMMATION. tiuuing for hours, or it may be even for days, terminates in recovery or in death. When the quantity of blood abstracted is not too great, in proportion to the strength of the patient, there is a recovery or reaction of the system. After an ordinary syncope, the symptoms go off in the inverse order of their approach ; and when the patient has completely regained his faculties, it is generally observed tliat the actions wliich were suspended are performed with a slight degree of excitement. Tliis is most observable with regard to the pulse, wliich is rather more shai'p and fre- quent for some time afterwards than it was before, provided the patient did not labour under any febrile disturbance. This excess of reaction is observed to be proportioned in degi-ee to the strength of the patient and the quantity of blood withdrawn, provided it is not so large as at once to induce sink- ing or death ; and, in circumstances favourable for its production, may become so excessive as to simulate closely the symptoms of inflammatory fever. The pulse is extremely fi-equent, and has a peculiar jarring or jerking sort of character—the respiration is hurried—the face is flushed—the eyes are red and suffused—^the patient complains of intense headache, and distracting noises in his ears—and when blood is drawn it exhibits the buffy coat, though hardly the cupped surface which is seen during inflam- mation. The local symptoms of inflammation are not wanting; and the brain, with its membranes, is the part which most fre- quently suffers; but the viscera of the thorax and abdomen are not exempt from risk. This curious state, for pointing out which we are much indebted to Dr. Marshall Hall, may be induced either by one or two very large bleedings, or by a mmiber of small ones, causing a continued drain on the system for days, weeks, or months; and accordingly, as it occurs in one or other of these ways, the symptoms vary in the degree of their violence or acuteness. It may teiminate in fatal effusion on the brain, or some other im- portant organ, in sinking, or in a return to health. Bleeding, as might be expected, though it affords temporary relief, is a]pt to