SUPPUEATION. 65 troublesome hemorrhage may otherwise ensue. In some situa- tions, great difficulty is occasionally experienced in arresting the flow from arterial branches divided by the incision, from their resisting the efforts of pressure, and not admitting the applica- tion of ligatures, owing to the softened state of the texture surrounding the orifices. In such circumstances the best method is to pass a needle through the integuments into the cavity, and tlien bringing it out so as to include the vessel in a ligature, which being tied, proves certainly effectual, and may be removed when it ceases to be required. The poultice may be continued for a few days to promote the escape of matter secreted by the surface of the abscess, and then simple ointment, or wet lint, supported with a proper bandage, should be employed until the cure is completed. When caustic is used, it should be applied as if for making an issue; and in case it does not extend its effect through the whole parietes of the cavity, a knife may be pushed into the eschar or slough caused by its operation. Patients who could not bear the idea of having their sound skin cut, have sometimes comparatively little objection to this. Some practitioners prefer caustic for opening abscesses, on the ground that, while making the aperture, it hastens the sup- purative process. But if means for this purpose are required, there are others which can be used with more effect, and leave •the opening to be made by the more eligible method of the knife. When, owing to peculiarity of the part or patient, it is de- sirable to avoid making a breach in the surface, means sLould be used to promote removal of the matter by absorption. The best of these are blisters, followed by pressure. The cases in which they can be used with effect are chiefly those of slow suppura- tion in the glands, and under the periosteum. Abscesses are said to be Chronic or cold when the symptoms of inflammation which precede them are mild or not at all observable. In such cases, the collection generally forms slowly and F