PELVIS. 376 The causes of abscess in this situation are chiefly the inflam- mation of hemorrhoids, remaining long in a sitting posture, con- stitutional disturbance, and local irritation from foreign bodies arrested in the rectum. Males are more subject to the disease than females, who comparatively rarely suffer from it. It occurs most frequently during the vigour of life, between twenty and fifty years of age, and is very often met with in phthisical per- sons, whether owing to tlie ii-ritation that is occasioned by the morbid state of the lungs, or dependent on the ulceration of the intestines, which generally exists in such cases, it is difl&cult to decide. Children, and even infants, are not exempt from it. In treating the inflammation which precedes the abscess, bleeding from the part is never found to be productive of any advantage, and, on the contrary, seems to have an injurious effect in rendering the morbid process more slow and unmanage- able. Warm fomentations, gentle laxatives, and emollient injec- tions, afford most relief, and if they do not succeed in resolving the inflammatory action, hasten its termination in suppuration. When fluctuation can be distinctly perceived, a free opening should be made with the knife to prevent extension of the matter in the cellular substance, after which a poultice may be applied for a few days, and then simple dressing. Various methods have been followed in treating the subsequent sinuses or fistulas. Injections and ointments of every sort have been inti'odiiced into them, but seldom if ever with any permanent advantage; and it is now admitted, that, except through means of the knife, a cure is next to impracticable. Incisions were formerly practised with another view, which was to remove the callous walls of the cavity, from the erroneous idea that they depended upon a peculiar morbid action, instead of being simply the result of continued irritation. The practice founded on this mistaken principle was no less unsatisfactory than severe, as the recovery after operation always required a long time, and often proved incomplete. Simple division of the septum between the sinus and gut, which is the practice now employed, has been per- formed in a manner much more painful, difficult, and uncertain