208 PRINCIPLES OF SUKGERY. surrounded by a new one. Tlie new shell is of a larger size and more irregular form than the old one, which may be seen through a number of circular apertures lying a prisoner within this struc- ture, intended by Nature to serve as a substitute for it. Those who deny the ossific power of the periosteum maintain, that in all such cases, whether resulting from injury purposely inflicted with the view of experiment, or proceeding from diseased action, a portion of the old bone remains alive, and serves as the germ of a new one; that, in short, the formation of the new bone is simply an expansion or growth from the remnant of the old one, and that if merely the extremities of the bone affected remain alive, they will prove sufficient for generating the substitute shell. " It is difficult to reconcile this explanation with the rapid growth and uniform thickness of the new bone; since, if its forma- tion proceeded from the extremities, the process should be slow and progressive towards the centre; but there is another objection still more conclusive against it. If the new bone is formed by a portion of the old one that remains aHve, then the removal of a part by mechanical means should be supplied from the same source. But in all the cases where this has been done, either in the way of experiment, or for the cure of disease, the loss of sub- stance, unless of small extent, has been found imperfectly re- paired. For instance, after the operation of trepanning the skull, the aperture in the bone, though it becomes diminished in extent, is not altogether obliterated, and the newly-formed bone is not only smaller than the portion removed, but also thinner. " In the fore-legs of dogs and rabbits, there are two bones of nearly equal size, and so connected, that a large portion of one may be taken away without destroying the rigidity of the limb. There is here, therefore, a convenient opportunity of trying what can be done by the extremities of a bone for restoring losses of substance in its shaft. Experiments of this kind have, accord- ingly, been frequently performed on these animals, and the result has uniformly been, that when the portion removed exceeded an inch in length, there was a permanent deficiency of osseous sub-