AMPUTATION. 169 even, and admits of being covered by the flaps of integument without either straining or redundance. The stump thus formed may either be rested on the knee, or employed so as to retain the use of the joint, by means of an apparatus consisting of a hollow cone secured by straps buckled round the knee. Amputation of the leg may also Jbe^ performed very con- veniently at its lower end, ajittle__way above the ankle, by formiDg two flaps of nearly equal size from the anterior and pos- terior parts of the limb. The result of this operation is a stump certainly not equal to that obtained at the ankle-joint, but still very suitable for the adaptation of an artificial foot. Amputation of the tliigh has afforded by far the most keenly contested field for conflicting opinions in regard to the best mode of operating. Until about forty years ago, the operation by cir- cular incision, or cutting the integuments so as to provide a covering for the bone, was invariably practised by British surgeons both at home and abroad. But the flap method— which, though taught, and, at a former period, to some extent practised, on the Continent, had not been applied to the thigh in this coimtry—was strongly advocated by the late Mr. Listen, and also by myseK, as may be seen from our papers in the Edin- burgh Medical Jovirnal of that period, and came into general use. Indeed, before the introduction of anaesthetic means, the facility and rapidity of this operation, by greatly lessening the patient's sufferings, gave it a great advantage over the other .process ; and it was also supposed that a muscular covering for the bone would prove of great service. While, however, the former of these considerations has ceased to be of any conse- quence, the latter was contradicted by experience, since it appeared that the muscles were liable to such retraction as not only prevented their union over the bone, but withdrew the integuments so as to prevent them from doing so. Various attempts were made to obviate these bad effects, by modifyiug the length and direction of the flaps, by making them anterior and posterior instead of lateral, and by varying their relative proportions, with little success, until Mr. Teale, by making a