PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEKY. 456 sofa, witli the tliiglis separated, and the hair of the pubis shaved off. The surgeon then, grasping the testicle in his left hand, makes two incisions, commencing at the external ring, and imiting at the bottom of the tumour. He next cuts down to the cord, where these incisions meet above, passes his finger under the vessels, and then desires the assistant to lay hold of them. He now divides the cord as low as is consistent with entire removal of the disease, and pulling the lower end of it towards him, turns out the testicle, which may be detached with a few strokes of the knife, while the penis and sound testicle are drawn aside. The spermatic artery, and any branches of the perineal or inguinal vessels that threaten to bleed, are then tied, and lint is applied to afford the requisite support. Sarcomatous Enlargement of the Serotuvi. The scrotum is liable to an enlargement, which seems to consist merely in a morbid growth of the cellular substance, with interstitial deposition of albuminous matter, so as to give it a very firm consistence. When exposed by a section, the struc- ture appears white, compact, and homogeneous, except where small cells containing glairy fluid are interspersed through it. The gTowth begins in the lower part of the scrotiun, but, as it proceeds, engages the whole of it, together with the skin of the penis, which becomes completely concealed from view. The prepuce is greatly elongated, and presents at its orifice a tuber- cu.lated cauliflower-looking excrescence, that does not bear the slightest resemblance to the part in its natural state. There are no limits to the size which such humours may attain. Twenty, forty, or even sixty pounds' weight is by no means uncommon ; and there is one case on record in which the mass when removed weighed 170 pounds. The disease generally commences in adults, and increases slowly during the remainder of Mfe. It is common in tropical countries, particularly in the "West Indies, but occurs comparatively seldom in the temperate climates of Europe. The only remedy for this oppressive growth, which impedes