PRINCIPLES OF SUKGERY. 316 able remedies of a general kind, are to be employed according to circumstances. If necessary, more free dilatation, and stimulating washes, with an alterative course of medicine and diet to improve the patient's health, may afterwards be had recourse to. As a consequence both of this and the former kind of abscess having been improperly treated, there fi-equently remain sinuses of great extent, seated very deep between the mamma and pec- toral muscle, and running through the substance of the gland in various directions. A copious thin sero-purulent discharge issues from the orifices, which are generally numerous, and the whole breast becomes hard, and immovably attached through indura- tion and adhesion of the muscular, cellular, glandular, and cutaneous tissues. The appearances presented by the disease are then so alarming, to one not acquainted with the nature of the case, that excision of the affected parts might very readily be thought of, and, there is reason to believe, has even been executed. Mr. Hey of Leeds proposed, as a substitute for re- moval, the free incision of aU the sinuses, so as to lay them fairly open, however numerous and deep, even though it should be necessary in doing this to divide, or even insulate, portions of the gland. This severe practice is not necessary, since ex- perience has shewn, that merely enlarging moderately with the knife the orifices of the more dependent sinuses is suffi- cient for the'purpose. y^^'Q.e-i U'^*^ Simple Sarcoma. "* Simple sarcoma, or hypertrophy of the mamma, seldom occurs to such an extent as to constitute what may be regarded as a disease, since enlargement of the breast is generally owing much more to redundance of the adipose tissue than the size of the gland. Occasionally, however, the mamma does suffer a morbid increase, and may attain such dimensions as to become an insufferable load to the patient. Cases are recorded in which tumours of this kind were found after removal to weigh many pounds ; and if the tumour continues to enlarge, or is the cause