381 PELVIS. tracted from any cause, the retention of urine will of course be more readily and completely induced. From the nature of the exciting cii'cumstances, it may be inferred that, along with the muscular constriction, there is a thickening of the mucous mem- brane, depending on vascular engorgement, which contributes to the effect, and must be kept in view during the treatment. As the disease depends on irritation, soothing measures ought always to be employed in the first instance. MUd and anodyne injections thrown into the rectum, the hip-bath, and venesection, if the pulse should require it, often prove sufficient to afford relief. Should they fail in doing so, and the symptoms are urgent, it will be necessary to draw off the water by the catheter, since the additional irritation thus occasioned is more than counterbalanced by the good effect of emptying the bladder, which, when stimulated by distension, reacts upon the spasmodi- cally contracted muscles at' its neck, and increases their resist- ance. The instrument used on this occasion should be neither full-sized—as the urethra is not only compressed by the muscles, but also swollen and contracted—nor veiy small, as the excited and congested membrane is softer, and, consequently, more easily torn than usual. It should be passed very gently, and with great care to avoid the erroneous directions of its point, which have been mentioned above, and in this case are extremely apt to occasion breaches, that increase the difficulty of the operation, by exciting still more initation, by causing hemorrhage, and by misleading the surgeon in his future attempts. The relief afforded by evacuation is seldom permanent, the irritated state of the organs giving rise to a deceitful feeling of distension, and rendering the patient very soon desiroxis of having the catheter again introduced. To obviate these uneasy symptoms, an opiate injection ought to be thrown into the rectum immediately after the instrument is withdrawn; and the operation ought not to be repeated oftener than there may be reason to suppose that the urine has accumulated to an injurious extent. To counteract the constipating effect of the opium injection, and remove any source of irritation from the intestinal canal, a table-spoonful of castor-