395 PELVIS. form, managed so as to suit the direction which the canal takes in consequence of the elevation of the vesical extremity by the swelling of the prostate. When mnch difficulty has been ex- perienced in introducing the catheter, it should be allowed to remain in the bladder for a day or two. Various medicines have been employed to induce absorption of the tumour, as iodine and the muriate of Ume; but no real advantage has ever been de- rived from these means. It has also been proposed to cut out the enlarged prostate; but this proceeding is so inconsistent with the dictates of rational surgery, that the objections to it need not be taken into consideration. Earthy concretions are not unfrequently found in the ducts of the prostate. They are generally of a very small size, which only in rare cases equals that of a pea, of a rounded figure, and reddish-brown colour. Their composition is invariably phos- phate of lime, with a little animal matter. They usually exist in great numbers together; being either imbedded in the sub- stance of the gland, or collected into groups which occupy the dilated ducts. The symptoms which they occasion are not well ascertained, since their existence is seldom known until it is dis- covered afterjdeath by dissection. On several occasions, having cut into the membranous part of the urethra to remove a con- cretion that was felt there, I have found the prostate hollowed out into a cavity containing calculi, which were extracted with success. Extravasation of Urine, and Puncture of the Bladder. When retention of urine, from whatever cause it may proceed, is not remedied, the pressure occasioned by the confined iluid at length induces ulcerative absorption, and forms a breach which allows the urine to escape into the surrounding cellular substance. This rupture, as it is improperly termed, usually takes place im- mediately above the obstruction; and as most cases of complete retention depend on stricture at the bulb, the aperture generally occurs in the membranous part of the urethra. When the bladder gives way in such circumstances, it does so most fre-