345 ABDOMEN. from each other, and fouud on the lateral, or even anterior part of the sac. In such cases, too, the obliquity of the canal becomes much diminished, and it is often at length impossible to tell, by external examination, whether the hernia is external or internal; in other words, whether it has passed through the whole course of the canal, or escaped directly through the external ring. When it is of the latter or ventro-inguinal kind, the cord lies on the iliac side of its neck, behind which it crosses obliquely downwards, and the epigastric artery is also on the same side ranning upwards and inwards. It appears, therefore, that if the stricture were divided by cutting towards the pubis, the epigastric would be endangered in the former case; and that, if the knife were carried outwards, it would in the latter subject both the epigastric artery and the cord to the risk of injury. As it is often difficiilt, and sometimes impossible, to ascertain positively, either from the examination of the tumour, or from its previous history, whether the vessels are situated on its ihac or pubic side, the safest plan is always to cut upwards, in which direction there can never be any risk incurred. The simple probe-pointed bistoury, which has been. employed for the preliminary part of the operation, is the most safe and efficient instrument for divid- ing the stricture. The surgeon should introduce the fore-linger of his right or left hand, according to circumstances, between the sac and viscera as high as he can, and then, feeling the stricture with its point, carry up the knife with its side turned towards the finger, until it is insinuated between the intestine or omentum and the sac, when, tiirning its edge upwards, he raises the handle gently but steadily, and repeats this process until he perceives that there is a free passage for his finger into the abdomen. The late Mr. Aston Key, and Mr. Luke of London, have endeavoured to lessen the danger of the operation by dividing the constriction without opening the sac. The advantages attri- buted to this procedure, from leaving the serous membrane entire, seem more than counterbalanced by the risk of wounding the intestine in dividing the stricture, the evUs which may result from returning the strangulated parts in an improper condition,