EFFUSION. 39 and superficially situated, particular operations are occasionally performed for its radical cure, as will be explained hereafter under the titles of Bursa? Mucosae, and Hydrocele, Effusion of Fihrine. When fibrine is effused, it presents the appearance of the ^ bnfiy coat, and is named Coagulable Lymph, This effusion happens most frequently in the same situations as that of the serous kind, but also occurs on the mucous surfaces, and in the interstices of tissues. When the lymph is thrown out upon a surface, it takes the form .^z.Z-'w^ of a crust or membrane,—and if not disturbed, is apt to become organised and vascular, so as to constitute a permanent structure. Adhesions are thus often effected between adjacent surfaces, as those of the pleura. When lymph is eflPused on a serous surface, there is generally more. or less serum also, which in this case is not limpid and colourless, but turbid, with flakes of lymph floating in it. If the patient survives so as to afford sufficient time for the purpose, the lymph, where adherent to the sides of the cavity, is organised into dense membranous structures, and the serum acquires the usual appearance of a dropsical fluid. The loose portions of lymph sometimes become indurated into masses of a tough consistence and yellow colour, which usually resemble each other in size and form, as may be seen not unfre- quently in bursse that have suffered from inflammation, Eifusion of lymph on a natiiral surface occurs almost always as a consequence of inflammation. It is also occasionally pro- duced by two surfaces of the same kind being pressed together, as may be seen in the blood-vessels, particularly the veins, or in the contents of a large hernia for which an imperfectly fitting truss has been worn. The means of prevention consist in sub- duing the inflammation that precedes ; and it may further be stated, that the constitutional disturbance produced by mercury seems much opposed to the action which occasions the effusion, whence the_use of that medicine in cases where injurious effects are threatened from this source, as in Iritis,