PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 18 Effects of Bleeding.—The first effect noticed is a diminution iu the force and rapidity of the circulation, wMch is manifested by the pnlse becoming slower and softer. By and by the motion of the heart is so much weakened that it no longer propels the blood with sufficient force to support the functions of the brain. The individual becomes pale—^lie complains of weakness and nausea, which sometimes proceeds to vomiting, but more fre- qixently, the functions of the brain becoming more and more completely suspended, he loses all power of sensation and volun- tary motion—he is no longer able to stand or sit—there are frequently slight tremors of the muscles, and in some rare cases violent convulsive contractions of them—he makes some deep inspirations and expirations—looks wildly about him, and falls into a state closely resembling death, which is named Syncope. Syncope occurs most readily when the patient is in an erect posture, and a veiy large quantity oT blood may be withdrawn without inducing it if ho lies horizontally. The most effectual method of recovering one from this state is consequently to lay him do^vn with his head on the same level as his body. The quantity of blood which must be abstracted to induce syncope in ordinary circumstances is extremely variable. Sometimes several pounds may be withdi-awn before its symptoms appear, and at other times a few ounces are sufficient for the x^uipose; the patient's mental alarm has a considerable share in producing the effect, but in general sixteen or twenty ounces are required. "When the patient is very weak, or very largely depleted, the syncope either passes directly into death, or is succeeded by an intermediate state, named Sinking. In this condition the pulse is small, feeble, and intermittent; the countenance is deadly pale, and bedewed with clammy moisture : the extremities are cold, and the patient has a distressing sensation of weakness. He lies in a dozing state ; and when roused from it, takes some time to recollect his situation, often at first exjjressing himself incoherently. His breathing is imeasy, being performed with dilatation of the nostrils, and is frequently attended with slight crepitation, or mucous rattle in the chest. This state, after con-