PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY the surrounding skin, and exhibits large flabby granulations, which are either of a dark colour, like that of venous blood, or pale and cedematous. The edge is smooth and flat, or gently rounded; the discharge thin, watery, and generally profuse ; the pain usually inconsiderable. The parts surrounding and sub- jacent, constituting what is called the stool or base of the ulcer, are soft and free from any indurating effusion. The cicatrix forms round the margin, and is generally at first elevated above the proper level, to which it usually descends afterwards, owing to the contraction that takes place subsequently to its completion. This kind of ulcer occurs in parts which possess weak powers of action, either on their own account or on that of the system. The general wealcness is most frequently observed in children ; but may be induced at any age, by deficient nourishment, an unwholesome atmosphere, etc. The local weakness may depend on the cause which occasioned the ulcer, or simply on the long duration of the healing process. With regard to the first of these, it may be stated, that whenever the solution of continuity is effected by means which injure the parts concerned, as by lacerating, bruising, or burning, it displays the characters of a weak ulcer; and, as to the second, it is sufficient to observe, that every ulcer tends to become defective in action during the process of cure ; so that, if considerable in size, it is sure, sooner or later, to display the features indicative of this condition. The treatment of weak ulcers consists in employing pressure, together with stimulating and astringent applications locally ; and, if necessary, strengthening the system by the administration of wine, bark, bitters, and nourishing diet. Of the local applica- tions, ointments used to be most employed; but the preference is now generally given to various metallic solutions, such as those of the sulphate of zinc, acetate of lead, and sulphate of copper, in the proportion of from one to three grains to the ounce. It seems probable that the moist nature of these appli- cations is of more consequence, in producing the effect desired, than the substances dissolved in them, since water alone answers very well for the purpose. These lotions or washes, as they are