GENITAL ORGANS. 433 lymph, aud affordiug a viscid discharge. Wheu caused by violence, they are usually of an irregular figure, and surrounded with more or less hardness, according to the irritation which they have suffered from the matter applied to them. The surface of both kinds is generally grey, yellowish, or ash-coloured, and shews no appearance of granulations. The pain is very variable. When the sore is in a highly irritable state, it usually presents either a phagedenic or sloughing character. In the former case the ulcer, which is generally seated on the body of the penis, is round, shallow, and very abrupt at the margin, which is red, while the surrounding integuments are not altered from their ordinary state. It is very painful, and increases progressively, preserving the characters that have been described, and enlarging in superficial extent without becoming deeper. In the slough- ing state the sore is surrounded with much tense swelling, and difPiised redness. The pain' is intense ; and the margin of the sore, which is very irregular, at one or more parts exhibits sphacelated spots. Owing to the peculiarities of their situation, and also of ^ the circumstances which attend their production, sores on the penis are generally very slow in healing, unless properly treated, and even then often require more time for the purpose than might be expected from their size. It was very generally believed uijtil lately, and the opinion is still maintained by many, that the poison which gave rise to chancres was of a peculiar kind, which had not existed in Europe until the latter part of the fifteenth century, when it suddenly appeared at the siege of Kaples, having either originated there, or been brought by Spanish soldiers who had imported it from the newly discovered Western World. This poison of Syphilis, as it has been called, was supposed to produce various other effects besides the primary sore, when absorbed from it into the system: first causing bubo, and then a succession of constitutional dis- orders that were termed secondary symptoms. Of these the most important were scaly eruptions of the skin, ulceration of the fauces, exfoliation of the bones of the nose, chronic inflam- 2 F