PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 320 tion of the superjacent parts; and thus give rise to sores which prove truly incurable cancers. The pain and discharge that ensue occasion more or less exhaustion of the patient, but are seldom the immediate cause of death, as she generally dies before they produce this effect; and existence is often terminated in such cases so suddenly and unexpectedly as to suggest the suspicion of a poisonous influence proceeding from the disease. The patient generally complains of what she believes to be rheumatic pains, extending through the whole body, but being particularly severe in the arm of the affected side, which is often cedematous, numb, and powerless ; and the fatal event is usually preceded by sickness, loss of appetite, and extreme weakness. Effusion into the ca^dties of the chest is occasionally the cause of death. The skin sometimes shews a great tendency to assume the diseased action, either being primarily affected with it, or, wliile. the gland is undergoing this morbid change, becoming studded at various distances with flat carcinomatous tubercles. The disease varies greatly in the rapidity of its progress, accord- ing to circumstances, which seldom admit of being satisfactorily distinguished, but generally proceeds more slowly in advanced periods of life. The appearances which are presented by the section of car- cinomatous tumours, though they all agree in some respects, differ considerably in others. There is always more or less of a very dense, almost cartilaginous structure, of a mixed brownish- gray, and bluish-white colour, which exists either in the form of compact masses, with bands of a similar substance, that radiate from the centre,—or in that of capsules, smooth and distinct ex- ternally, but gradually softening towards the interior. Within this texture there are, as the disease advances, cavities filled with a soft friable grayish-yellow or brown substance, or thin imperfectly-formed purulent matter. Sometimes the appearance produced by the radiating fibrous bands is strikingly marked, while at others, though the carcinomatous texture does not form a capsule, the confines of the morbid formation are very distinctly circumscribed,—and there seems to be a mixture of the brown