8 PHINCIPLES OF SURGERY. and it also appears occasionally, though no inflammation exists. Pregnancy, and violent agitation, whether of body or mind, are apt to cause its formation. Inflammation terminates in various ways. Sometimes all the symptoms disappear, and the part resumes its natural con- dition, when it is said to terminate in Eesolution. At other times it ends by destroying the life of the part; and is then said to terminate in Mortification. It also terminates in various actions, producing alteration of the structure, or the separation of matters from the blood, differing in quantity or quality from those naturally secreted by it. Of these the most remarkable are the following:—The formation of a peculiar fluid named Pus, which is called Suppuration,—the Effusion of serum, or lymph, i.e., the fibrine, in a state resembling the buffy coat,—the re- moval of solid or fluid parts of the body, which is named Absorption,—and the production of some solid structure, differ- ing in quantity or quality from that naturally existing, which may be designated Diseased Nutrition. Inflammation has been variously divided and named, accord-" ing to its termination,—^the predominant local, and constitutional symptoms,—the degree of its violence,—and the part affected. Most of these distinctions, so far from simplifying the subject, have tended greatly to obscure and perj)lex it. Instead of causing inflammation to be regarded as a morbid action, always of the same nature, and merely modified in its symptoms and termination, according to the part and constitution affected, they<have made it appear a group of dissimilar processes, ar- ranged under one title, but widely and essentially different from each other Inflammation of particular organs and tissues is expressed in modern nomenclature by adding the termination itis to the anatomical title of the part affected, as Iritis, Gastritis, Phlebitis. For some parts the old and peculiar appellations are still re- tained,—as Erysipelas for inflammation of the skin, Ophthalmia for that of the eye. ^'^^