190 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. experienced on this account. The treatment obviously requires that the limb should be extended, and this is best done by plac- ing a splint on the fore-part of the Umb, a figure of 8 bandage having been previously applied, so as to retain the fragment in its proper position. Both the bones of the fore-arm are sometimes broken to- gether, but this is a rare occurrence, and happens either from falls on the hand or blows on the arm. The accident is readily recognised, and easily treated through means of a couple of splints, supported by a roller ; and if the patient is thin, a lon- gitudinal compress placed between the radius and ulna on both sides of the limb. The humerus is very liable to fracture in almost every part of its extent; and in respect to the diagnosis and treatment, it is necessary to consider the accident as occurring through the shaft,—through the neck,—and through the condyles. The shaft is broken most frequently about its middle,.i)e- tween the attachments of the deltoid and hracMceus intgmm muscles. The fracture is usually transverse, and very readily recognised by the flexibility of the limb at the injured part. It is caused by falls, blows, and inordinate actions of the muscles, as in throwing a stone. The treatment consists in applying splints on the mner and outer sides of the arm, extending from the axilla and acromion process to the olecranon, supported by a bandage, which may be a simple roller, or, if there is much swelling, of the looped kind; the elbow ought to be bent at a right angle, to relax the muscles equally, and supported in a sling, if the patient is kept out of bed. When the fracture is seated above the insertion of the deltoid, the lower extremity is apt to be drawn so forcibly upwards as not to admit of being secured by the means which have been mentioned. In this case the patient must lie in bed, with the arm separated from •the side so as to relax the deltoid, while it is supported by the splints usually required. The humeinas may be fractured at its lower extremity either ^ obliquely or transversely, so as to detach one or both of its