76 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. the dissection is extremely easy and readily performed. The incision should be made freely down to the substance of the tumour, wliich is then to be drawn outwards and detached from the cellular connections by repeated applications of the knife directed upon its surface. The finger-like processes, often sent out on different sides, must be carefully disengaged in the same way from the sort of sheaths in which they lie, by alternately gently pulling and slightly scarifying them. Fihro-cariilaffinotis Sarcoma. The consistence of this tumom', as may be infen-ed from its title, is softei: than that of cartilage, to which it bears most resemblance. It frequently occurs in connection with the tissue, sometimes giwiug-Qlit in a distinct mass which is called an Enchondroma. and on other occasions e_xpanding theJborie into spicular processes, or an imperfect shell containing the morbid growth, which is then named osseous Osteo-sarcoma. Tumours of this Icind are also met with in other textures, as the muscular, but wherever seated admit of remedy only by removal, and this may in general be done with a good prosx^ect of jjeiTaanent recovery. Cystic Sarcoma. Tumours are occasionally met with, which, when divided, exhibit a cellidar structure, the compartments being extremely variable in their relative as well as absolute size, and in the nature of their contents. Sometimes they are perfectly fluid, at other times viscid or glairy, and their colour is of every kind, though most frequently yellow or wMte. Different cells of the same tumour often have dissimilar contents. Sometimes the tumour is entirely composed of cysts, at other times a variable J)roportion of solid substance is interposed between them, and this possesses the characters of fibrous sarcoma. This Cystic Sarcoma, as it is called, tends to increase, and does not appear to have any limits to the size which it may attain, as may be seen in the case of ovarian dropsy, which de- pends upon the great development of a cystic stractui-e in the