BONES. 195 jure the pleura or lungs ; but when the rib is broken by being- bent outwards by approximation of the sternum to the spine, the parts contained within the chest are less endangered. The fracture is attended with pain, aggravated by respira- tion, and by obscm-e crepitus, which is best ascertaiaed by placing the hand on the injui'ed part while the patient breathes. The diagnosis is frequently far from easy, from the patient's ina- bility to bear the necessary examination ; but its accuracy is not essential, since the treatment proper for fracture is the same with that required for a bruise of the muscles, the only injiuy with which it can be confounded. A broad bandage ought to be applied tightly round the chest, and bleeding, purgatives, and tartrate of antimony must be used according to circumstances. Fractures of the cranium and vertebrae, being of consequence chiefly on account of their connection with accompanying in- juries of the brain and spinal marrow, will be considered most advantageously along with these subjects. The great strength and arched form of the pelvis enable it to resist all ordinary degrees of violence, and it is only when sub- jected to the most powerful compression, as from the weight of a loaded carriage or the force of machinery, that the bones com- posing it give way. They yield most frequently in the horizon- tal and descending branches of the os pubis, and at the same time there is usually a separation of the sacro-Uiac synchon- drosis on one or both sides. The precise extent of the injury can hardly be ascertained, except by dissection ; but the existence of fracture is generally rendered manifest by the pain, mobility, and crepitus which attend it. Sometimes it is made still more obvious by the ramus of the ischium or puMs being driven thi-ough the perineum, or the coats of the rectum. Such fractures are almost certainly fatal, from the great shock of the system and injury of important organs with which they are accompanied; but the patient ought always to be afforded the chance of recovery, by binding the pelvis tightly with a broad circidar bandage, and protecting him from excite- ment of every kind.