408 PEINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. diately after descending from tlie ureter. When tlie history of a case leads to the suspicion of there being a concretion of tliis kiad remaining ia the bladder, or if it should be detected by sounding, its exit ought to be assisted by a very complete dila- tation of the urethra by means of bougies, by drinking copiously of simple diluent fluids, and by the relaxing influence of warm bathiug. Cases sometimes occur in which the calculus has entered into the urethra, and after passmg through more or less of its extent, has been arrested at a narrow part of the canal either natural, or resulting from stricture. The membranous portion is the most common seat of this occurrence, which also happens sometimes at the orifice. A retention of urine occasion- ally results from the obstruction thus caused; and if a full-sized catheter were passed without any precau.tion, it might push the concretion back into the bladder, which of course ought to be avoided. The instrument should be merely carried down so far as to disengage the calculus from the contracted place that it occupies, and which it closes like a spherical valve ; or, if of a very small size, it may be conveyed past the concretion -into the bladder. The immediate bad effects being thus obviated, it is necessary to employ means for assisting the stone to pass for- wards. Bougies of progressively increasing size, introduced down to the seat of obstruction, may prove sufficient for this purpose. Forceps are used with hardly any advantage, from the difficulty of expanding their blades. "When it proves impos- sible to extract the calculus from the urethra, it ought to be cut out, which is readily effected, by making an incision upon it whUe held firmly, so as to prevent any displacement during the operation, or upon a grooved staff. The wound sometimes heals by the first intention, but it is prudent to keep a catheter in the urethra for a few days, to prevent any risk of the urine infiltrat- ing into the cellular substance. Calculi are sometimes lodged in fistulas of the perineum, and, of course, so long as they are permitted to remain, render a cure by the ordinary means im- practicable. If discovered in this situation, they should be removed without delay by incision.