DISEASED NUTEITION. 77 ovaiy. It is not prone to degeneration, and does not occasion almost any imeasiness, except lay its bull?, causing deformity, impeding the movements of the patient, or pressing injuriously on important organs. It occurs most frequently in glandular structures, especially the ovaries, testicles, and mamma, but is also occasionally observed under the integuments of the trunk, more particularly the upper, part of it, and rarely on the limbs. It is recognised by its imperfect fluctuation and bluish colour. The only treatment that this growth admits of with advantage is excision, which is effected with very different degrees of facility, according to circumstances. If the tumour be seated in a texture of limited extent, such as the mamma, it may be very readily removed. But if it commences simply in the cellular texture, it is apt to spread so widely, and contract such adhesions, as to render an effectual operation very difficult, or even impracticable. In such situations, it is therefore the duty of the surgeon to press Tipon the patient the propriety of early extirpation. Carcinomatous Sarcoma. The morbid structure which is designated Carcinoma, is dis- tinguished by its great fiiPinp.sR, and almost cartilaginDus haxdness; whence it used to be, and still is, occasionally called Sfiioims. The dense textaire which characterises carcinoma does not con- stitute a uniform homogeneous mass, buLbas numerous interstices which are filled with a yello,w orjhrownish-gray friable substance, and it is generally extended in the form of diverging bands which spread into the neighbourhood. When the disease occurs in an organ of limited extent, as a lymphatic gland, it does not tend to diffuse itseK beyond the confines of the part concerned, the struc- ture of which it affects more uniformly than when seated in a tissue less distinctly bounded. As the disease proceeds, however, it at last breaks through this obstacle, and then spreads as has been already described. The carcinomatous action extends itself in a different way also, namely,.along the absorbent vessels and glands of the part originally affected. It would seem, in general, to take tliis course more readily than to pass directly froiil -bne