53 GRANULATION. called, onglit to be varied occasionally, as habit lessens their effect. Pressure is always useful, and ought to be exerted by proper bandages. Several folds of moistened lint should be laid over the sore; and between the lint and bandage it is proper to interpose a piece of oiled silk, to prevent the lotion from soaking away and leaving the sore dry. The Indolent or Callous Ulcer is distinguished by a smooth siu'face, generally depressed, of various colours, brown, gray, or white, having no appearance of gTanulations, and looking as if varnished; a viscid tenacious fetid discharge ; a circular or oval figure, Avith little irregularity; and thick white edges, seeming as if composed of accumulated cuticle. There is no circum- scribed hardness in the immediate neighbourhood of the ulcer; but there is always diffused swelling of the limb in which it is seated. The swelling is not soft and yielding lilce that of com- mon cedema, but firm and incompressible. The pain is very variable. There is no appearance of cicatrix so long as the sore retains its indolent characters. Ulcers of this description are confined almost exclusively to the legs of people advanced beyond middle age, and constitute a veiy troublesome subject of surgical practice, as they are very apt to recur after being healed. Some people, partly from the fear of injuring the system by suppressing a long-continued dis- charge, and partly from the despair of effecting a permanent cure, bestow little care on the treatment of these complaints ; but this is wrong, since the most unpromising cases, under pro- per management, are often remedied; and there is hardly any disease which interferes more seriously with the patient's com- fort, or unfits him more for the active duties of life. This kind of sore is chiefly met with in the labouring poor, and often pro- duces the greatest misery, by impeding or altogether preventing the exertions which are required for maintaining the patient and his family. Tlie treatment generally thought the most useful, is rest in the horizontal posture, conjoined with pressure. The merit of fully establishing the advantage of pressure is due to Messrs.