EYE. 505 remedy by an operation. The object of it is to make a new aperture ia the iris sufficient for allowing the light required in vision to enter ; and various methods have been contrived for its performance. The most important of these are—1. Making a simple incision in the closed iris by means of a needle with cuttiQg edges, or a small knife introduced through the sclerotic at the distance of somewhat more than a line from the cornea, and carried forwards through the membrane so as to effect its division to the extent required (Cheselden, Sir W. Adams); 2, Tearing away the iris from its ciliary attachment sufficiently for estabhshing an adequate opening, by means of a curved needle introduced through the sclerotic or cornea (Scarpa); 3. Dividing the iris from its centre to the circumference in the direction of two radii meeting together at an angle of 45°, so as to form a triangular flap, the apex of which corresponds to the pupU, and its base to the ciliary attachment of the iris,—a process that may be effected more easily than might be expected, by puncturing the cornea, and introducing the blades of very small curved scissors,—one of which is sharp to penetrate the iris, and the other blunt to prevent injury of the cornea (Maunoir) ; 4. Cut- ting out a piece of the iris, which is done by puncturing the cornea and allowing the iris to protrude, or, if necessary, pulling • it out with forceps, and then removing the portion thus pre- sented by means of scissors curved on the side (Gibson). These methods have been variously modified and combined, and have led to the contrivance of an endless variety of instruments, the particular description of which will be found in the works devoted to ophthalmic surgery. The one last mentioned is easily per- formed, is not attended with much risk of the new apei-ture closing, and is little injurious to the other structures of the eye. The opening of the iris must be made opposite a clear part of the cornea, and the incision of the latter part should not, if possible, be directly over the new pupil, lest the opacity of its cicatrix should throw another obstacle in the way of vision.