PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY-. 342 largely to diminish the contractile tone of the muacular fibres— using the warm bath with the same view—and in addition to it also employing opium or tobacco, with the application of cold externally, and the internal use of tartrate of antimony, or purgatives, were formerly resoi-ted to, but have been superseded by the more eflicient and less objectionable agency of chloro- form. The choice of means for the pui-pose of promotiug reduction must be determined by the circumstances of the case. When the patient is strong or plethoric, it will always be right, in the first instance, to abstract a considerable quantity of blood. Ee- peated injections, or the warm bath, if .it can be procured, should also be employed. The bowels having been thus, if possible, unloaded, and the spasmodic tension of the abdominal muscles, which is caused by the irritation of the disease, and reacts in- juriously upon it by tightening the fasciaj which produce the stricture, having been subdued or dimiiushed, the taxis is again to be tried. If it should fail, in the more favourable circum- stances that now exist, the sui-geon must think of removing the resistance by dividing the stricture with the knife. It is diffi- cult to determine how long the operation may be safely deferred, as inflammation and gangrene supervene much more quickly in some cases than in others. The best course is to operate so soon as a fair trial has been given without success to the taxis, and the measures which promote it, especially bleeding, and the warm bath if it can be procured. It should be recollected— 1. That the danger of the operation itself is very inconsiderable; and that, consequently, the patient should not, from fear of incurring it, be subjected to the greater risk, or rather almost certainty, of a fatal issue, which attends the disease when allowed to follow its own course. 2. That the progress of the bad consequences is usually rapid, in proportion as-the hernia is small, recent, and tense. 3. That in small recent hernias there is least advantage to be expected from waiting. 4. That in large hernias, strangulated in consequence of congestion, there is most assistance to be looked for from the continued use of purgatives