328 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. into the cavity of the abdomen; for the patient often dies in a few hours after the discharge takes place, and long before it can be supposed that inflammation has proceeded to the extent requisite for destroying life. The symptoms presented are intense burning pain of the abdomen,—insatiable thirst,—cold- ness of the extremities,—collapse of the features,—cold clammy sweat,—small frequent pulse,—coffee-coloured vomiting; in short, a condition nearly the same as that of sinking from morti- fication. The fatal event generally happens between the 20th and 30th hours, and seldom sooner than the 12th, or later than the 48th. "When death does not ensue untU the later periods that have been mentioned, there are always traces of inflammation to be perceived ; but when it happens within a few hours after the in- jury has been sustained, no such appearances can be discovered. The disastrous eflect of penetrating wounds is opposed by the resistance which the surfaces of the neighbouring viscera offer to the escape of the intestinal contents, and also by the contraction of the muscular fibres of the bowel at the injured part, which tends to protrude the mucous membrane through the aperture so as to obstruct it. If the effusion is restrained by these means for a short time, it may be prevented altogether by an adhesive exu- dation of lymph, that soon seals up the orifice, and unites the adjoining surfaces together. It will be most apt to occur when the intestine injured is distended by fluid contents,—when the wound is longitudinal in respect to the direction of the canal,— and when, if transverse, it is so large as to divide the circumfer- ence of the gut to a considerable extent. Extravasation of the contents of the urinary and gall-bladders produces the same effects as that of the intestinal matters. Internal hemorrhage may occur either from an artery of the abdominal parietes, or from the vessels of the viscera. It is recognised by the usual indications of weakness, coldness, and sickness, together with a feeling of oppression in the abdomen, and, in extreme cases, a fluctuation perceptible on examination externally. On dissection, the blood is found either diffused in