PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 118 rest directly upon the orifice of the bleeding vessel, and there- fore, as has abeady been remarked, the wound should be dilated, if not wide enough to admit of its introduction. The anterior tibial artery is liable to wounds at various parts of its course, and may be tied throughout almost the whole of it. This is not required below the ankle, as pressure is equally efficient, and much more convenient; but it may be necessaiy to apply ligatures higher than this. The vessel is not apt to be wounded further up than the middle of the leg, where the thick- ness of the muscles protects it. As it runs close to the inter- ^ osseous ligament, and along the fibular side of the tibialis anticiLs, ) it may be always easily found by making an incision about two inches and a half long, at such distance from the outer margin of the tibia as will allow room for this muscle, and then cutting down in the first muscular interstice. The peroneal artery is so securely defended by the various parts wliich surround it on aU sides, that it can hardly be injured without a very serious wound of the leg; and in the rare case of its hemoiThage requiring particular attention, instead of per- forming a very severe operation to apply the ligature, it would probably be better to enlarge the wound, if necessary, introduce graduated compresses, and support the limb with a bandage applied from the toes upwards. Femoral, Inguinal, and Iliac Aneurism. Aneurism of the femoral artery sometimes occurs just before it passes through the sheath of the triceps, in which case the vessel ought to be tied above the crossing of the sartorius, as has been described for popliteal aneurism : or if the aneurism is the result of a recent punctured wound, the old operation may be performed ; as there wiU be no reason to deem the arterial coats unsound, and the vessel lies favourably for the purpose. A tourniquet having been applied, the cavity is to be laid open, the fluid and coagulable blood sponged out, and the orifice being detected, two ligatures must be tied, one above and the other below the injured part. But if the case is of some standing, it