GENITAL ORGANS. 451 though not so efficiently ; and an open state of the bowels, with rest in the horizontal posture, contributes to keep the disease within bounds. The means of radical cure consist in extu-pation of the testicle, which can hardly, if ever, be warrantable ;—^liga- ture or transfixion of the veins, which is dangerous and useless ;— the pressure of a spring truss, which is absurd in theory and hurtful in practice ;—and excision of the redundant scrotum. Chronic Enlargement of tlie Testicle. The testicle is very liable to simple enlargement, with har- dening, which produces uneasiness from the bulk and weight attending it, and no doubt impairs the action of the gland ; but is seldom painful or very sensible of external impressions. It is generally irregular on the surface, and dense in. its structure. The circumstances which most frequently give rise to this condi- tion are attacks of inflammation, especially when repeated or badly treated, and chronic irritation of the urethra from stricture or other causes. In commencing the treatment, the first step should always be to examine the state of the urethra by passing a moderate-sized bougie, and if it either meets with obstruction or causes more than usual pain, thus indicating a morbid sensi- bility of the lining membrane, the operation must be repeated with instruments varied according to the nature and peculiari- ties of the case, until there is no longer any trace of disease. Even when the urethra seems to be sound, advantage is occa- sionally derived from the use of bougies, and in a week or two, or sometimes iu a few days, very formidable-looking tumours may thus be discussed. Should the swelUng exist along with a sound state of the urethra, or resist this treatment, means of promoting absorption must be employed. With this view the patient should maintain the horizontal posture, use a very spare diet, and be subjected to a gentle cou.rse of mercury ; at the same time having the absorbent actions of the part excited by leeching, and discutient lotions, which answer better than blisters or ointments. If there is water in the tunica vaginalis, a com- plication named Hydro-Sarcocele, the fluid ouglit to be evac\i-