PltlNQlPLES OF SUllGERY. 234 tion of the articular apparatus. The displacements which pro- ceed from the last of these causes are named spontaneous dislocations, and will be considered along with the diseases which give rise to them. The process of dislocation usually consists of two stages or acts ; there being first the displacement of the articulating sur- faces, which results directly from the violence that causes the accident; and then a further separation of them by the action of the muscles which formerly held the bones together, but now pull them past each other. These two steps are sometimes de- signated by the names of primary and secondary dislocation. Of the symptoms of dislocation, the most constant and charac- teristic one, .especially as a distinction from fracture, is inamo- bility or fixture, when motion of the limb is attempted either by means of its own muscles or by an external force, which depends upon the unnatural position of the articulating extremities of the bones, and the contraction of their surrounding muscles. The limb is generally shortened, but sometimes it is lengthened, and when the latter is the case there cannot of course be any sus- picion of fracture. There are also attending the accident defor- mity from the altered situation of the bones, pain or numbness from their pressure on the muscles and nerves, and swelling with coldness from obstruction of the blood-vessels. The treatment of dislocation consists in reducing or replacing the articular surface which has been moved from its proper posi- tion ; in doing which it is necessary to counteract the forces that caused the two acts of removal This is effected by first extend- ing the limb, so as to draw back the bone to the point where the muscles began to operate in producing its displacement; and then urging it in a direction opposite to that in which the external violence primarily acted. These steps in the j)rocess of reduction, which are named extension and coaptation, have sometimes an equal share in its accomplishment, but more fre- quently one or other of them is chiefly useful. In ball or socket- joints the first, and in hinge-joints the second, is chiefly used. The dislocated bone ought generally to l;)e extended in the