148 PRINCIPLES OF SUROERY. limbs are suLjected to the irritation of rough caniages, and their constitutions injured by the imwholesonie air of crowded hos- pitals. Should the surgeon find that his patient does not rally within the period usually occupied by the first stage, though assisted by the stimulating effect of wine or spirits, he ought still to afford the chance derived from removal of the limb, unless the strength seems at so low an ebb that it woidd cer- tainly sink under the shock of an operation; and, on the same principle, when inflammation has been allowed to come on, and seems proceeding to gangi-ene, amputation ought to be per- formed, as giving the patient a chance, however small, of escape from otherwise certain death. Cannon-balls not unfrequently occasion contusions without any breach of the surface, varying from tlie slightest ecchymosis to complete destruction of the subjacent tissues, so that they are reduced to a gelatinous pulp. Sometimes when the contusion is sustained on the trunk, it caiises instant death, in consequence of important organs being ruptured or otherwise injured. These effects used to be ascribed to the wind of the hall, or the air violently agitated by its motion. They are now more correctly referred to the action of the ball itself, which has had its velocity so far spent as to bruise merely without wounding. Injuries from the Extremes of Cold and Heat. The first effect of cold is to diminish the vital action of the part to which it is applied. This state of depression, when not carried too far or continued too long, is succeeded by more than usual activity, or what is called reaction, especially if heat or any other stimulus co-operates with the natural tendency to excite- ment. If this alternation be frequently repeated, the part con- cerned becomes permanently weakened, being slightly swelled, of a piirple colour, and not so warm as usuaL It is then easily affected by cold, becoming pale, contracted, and numb, and reacts with so much violence as to show symptoms of inflammation, be- coming red, hot, itchy, and painful; not unfrequently vesicated and ulcerated. A part thus injured by cold is named a Chilblain.