PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 100 rhage, which consists in twisting the mouths of the vessels. This torsion is effected differently, according to the size of the artery. When small, it is simply twisted ; when large, the internal coats arc first pushed back by means of one pair of forceps, while the extremity is tightly held by another. There can be no doubt as to the possibility of attaining the object on this principle; but the expediency of doing so seems much more questionable. In the removal of a tumom-, or any other considerable dissection, most of the arterial branches which throw out jets of blood, when divided, are speedily obstructed by the spontaneous process ; so that at the conclusion of the operation only the few of larger capacity requiring ligatures present themselves to view. Now, if every bleeding point had been subjected to torsion in the first instance, it might thus seem to have been productive of great benefit, while, if applied to the larger vessels, it would not afi'ord so complete security as the ligature. There is, accordingly, hardly any case in which the torsion proves useful except in wounds of the lips and cheeks, in which union by the first in- tention is very desii-able, and almost certainly effected if the raw edges are placed properly in contact; while the coronary arteries and other branches of the facial cannot be tied without leaving threads apt to disturb the adhesive process, and, from the projec- tion of their cut extremities beyond the surface of the wound, are very favourably situated for being twisted. The bleeding, after it has been stopped, sometimes returns, when it is called secondary hemorrhage. If it has ceased spon- taneously merely through the natural process, aided perhaps by syncope, which favours coagulation, the reaction of the system that ensues within an hour or two is apt to reinduce it.. If arrested by pressure, it may return either at tliis time, or not until two or three days afterwards, when the feverish excitement which is then occasioned by the irritation of the woimd tends to promote it; and if a ligature has been applied, the ulceration by which it is separated, if too rapid or extensive, may cause a bleeding from three days to as many weeks after the infliction of the injury. Wlien the hemorrhage, therefore, is considerable, the