PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 314 what wliiter and denser structure than usual, and frequently also cysts of various size containing a limpid fluid. The opera- tion is usually followed by an interval of complete relief, and sometimes by a permanent cure, but the cicatrix or neighbouriiig parts are apt to become the seat of sensations similar to, though seldom so severe as, those pseviously experienced, and for which the same soothing means ought to be employed.' The milk abscess is a collection of purulent matter formed in the mamma during lactation. If, whUe the gland is in this active state, constitutional disturbance should be excited by ex- posure to cold, errors of diet, or any other circumstances, the fever thus induced is very apt to be attended with or followed by inflammation of the previously excited organ. The patient's first intimation of indisposition is a rigor, accompanied with pain of the back, and headache, which is soon succeeded by heat of skin, quickness of pulse, loading of the tongue, and flushing of the face. At the same time the breast becomes red, tense, and pain- ful, while the short but smart fever, or Weed, as it is vulgarly named, subsides in the course of twenty-four or forty-eight hours. In a few days, if the inflammation does not terminate in resolution, the fluctuation of fluid may be felt in the mamma ; and if the process is allowed to proceed naturally, the matter is evacuated by ulceration or sloughing of the integuments.- In treating this afiection it is usual to begin with the appli- cation of leeches ; but it does not appear that mUch advantage is'thus obtained. Warm fomentations externally, and saline purgatives, to promote the intestinal secretions, with gentle anti- monial draughts, to produce a similar effect on the skin, ought to be employed in the first instance, as being the most efiicient means for inducing resolution of the inflammatory action. If it goes on to suppuration, poultices should be substituted for the fomentations, and the patient must observe a restricted regimen to moderate the flow of blood towards the breast. The cavity of the abscess generally heals sooner when evacuation of the matter is not hastened by using the knife, before the suppuration is so far completed that the thin superjacent integuments project or