301 THEOAT. patient feels lancinating pain, more or less constant and severe, in the part affected. A tumour can often be perceived by exter- nal examination of tbe throat. There is occasionally a bloody, foul discharge; and the patient's countenance acquires that greenish-yellow complexion which characterises a system labour- ing under malignant disease. As it is evidently impossible to effect excision of the tumour, the disease must be regarded as truly incurable; and any attempts with caustic, or the simple bougie, instituted either from misapprehension of the nature of the case, or an ill-grounded expectation of promoting absorption of the morbid structure, must prove injurious by increasing the patient's sufferings, and hastening the progress of the disease. This kind of strictiire, as well as the one depending on simple contraction, is simulated by malignant disease of the stomach, which therefore requires to be carefully discriminated. This is best done by passing a moderate-sized bougie. Bronchocele. ■ By Bronchocele is understood a tumour depending on enlarge- ment of the thyroid gland. The morbid growth is usually most akin to the simple sarcoma; but sometimes consists, partly or entirely, of cysts, and has also been found to present cerebriform characters. The swelling varies in size, from the slightest per- ceptible degree of fulness, to a magnitude that occupies nearly the whole space between the chin and sternum; and extends forwards as well as laterally in large round irregular projections. Its consistence is soft and elastic, and a section of it exhibits a yellowish granular structure. The vessels are generally very much enlarged, in proportion to the size of the tumour, whence incisions into its substance during life are attended with profuse hemoiThage. Sometimes the whole gland is equally enlarged, but it generally exceeds on one side; and occasionally the swelling is entirely limited to the right or left lobe—particularly the latter. In this case the surgeon must be upon his guard against supposing that the disease is an aneurism of the carotid artery, or an independent tumour admitting of excision, which