MOETIFICATION. 31 attended with tlie effects iii question. They have been also referred to the general exhaustion of power which the system suffers from the intense overaction that precedes the mortifica- tion. But this opinion is irreconcilable with the fact, that removal of the sphacelated part alleviates, and sometimes com- pletely arrests, the constitutional symptoms. They have, there- fore, as the only other explanation, been accounted for by sup- posing that the gangrenous or dying action extends itself over the system. Whatever be the true reason of the constitutional effect, there can be no doubt that it bears a direct proportion to the importance of the part affected, and the violence of the action which precedes the destruction of its vitality. In chiQnic^orjh^ gangrene, the local changes are of a similar kind, but slower progress, and less striking character. The con- stitutional symptoms, also, are milder in a proportionate degree ; and, indeed, not unfrequently altogether absent. Causes of Mortification. The causes of mortification, or circumstances which induce inflammation to terminate in it, may be referred to weakness, or defective powers of action ;—excessive irritability, or disposition to act; and excessive irritation, or excitement to act. Weakness.—The different tissues possess different powers of action. The tendons and shafts of the bones are very apt to die when inflamed—the cellular substance is less so—the skin still less—and the coats of the arteries least of all. The weakness wliich predisposes to mortification may also depend on general debility of the system. In the advanced stage of fevers, the slightest irritations are apt to occasion slougliing. In weakly children, exhaxxsted still further by disease, this effect is of course more certainly produced; whence blisters are dangerous applica- tions in such circumstances. Bad or defective food, and especi- ally the use of unsound rye, when subject to the morbid condition named Ergot, may cause such an unhealthy state of the system, that the slightest local irritation, or even inflammation occun-ing spontaneously, leads to extensive sloughing of the extremities.