57 GRANUIiATION, quick piilse, together with the foul tongue and all the other symptoms of feverish disturbance. By and by, in the course of a week or ten days, the state of matters usually began to improve; the sore gradually regained its former characters, and, though often very much increased in size, healed more quicldy than might have been expected, the general health undergoing a corresponding change. After trying a great variety of treatment without any sensible benefit, I came to regard the attack as one that should be trusted very much to spontaneous recovery. It was more troublesome than dangerous ; even in the cases of compound fracture and amputation, hardly, if ever, leading to the loss of limb or life, but merely protracting the cure. A poultice seemed the best dressing that could be applied until the sloughs began to separate, and the only internal remedies that appeared useful were laxatives in the early stage to regulate the bowels, and a moderate allowance of wine in the more advanced period of the complaint. ■ The application of concentrated nitric ncid has been thought useful in checking the unhealthy action. Ulcers prevented from Healing hy Peculiarity of A ction. It was formerly supposed that all the ulcers which resisted the means of increasing and diminishing action, owed their obstinacy to peculiarity of disposition, whence they were named specific sores. It is now well ascertained that a very large proportion of these sorcalled^ specific ulcers^ depend on some irritation, direct or indirect, after the removal of which they readily heal. The most common cause of irritation in such cases is that pro- ceeding from suppression of the secretions, especially those of the digestive organs, the remedy of which consists in correcting the patient's errors in regimen, and subjecting him to an altera- tive course of medicine. For this purpose, nothing answers so well, in general, as restricting the diet, increasing the exercise, and prescribing daily doses of the carbonate of soda with rhubarb,—as half a di-achm of the former, and six grains of the latter. The local treatment must be regidatcd by the condition of the ulcer as to excess or defect of action, but, generally