204 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. adequate to the supposed extent of destruction, was accounted for by attributing its diminution or removal to the absorbing power of the vessels, or the solvent property of the pus. It is now weU. ascertained that the sequestrum cannot be acted upon in either of these ways; and that its size may, therefore, be safely taken as a measure of the extent to which the bone has died. According to this test, it is found that the death and regenera- tion of an entire shaft, so far from being a very common occur- rence, is an extremely rare one; and some pathologists, as Leveill^ have gone so far as to deny it altogether, alleging that more or less of the external part of the old bone always remains, and becomes expanded into the new shell There can be no doubt, however, judging from the size, shape, and smooth surface, of the sequestrum, that it sometimes, though certainly very seldom, comprehends the whole thickness and circumference of the shaft. The origin of the substitute in cases of this kind has been variously explained. It must evidently proceed—1. From granu- lating action of the portion that remains. 2. JFrom the old bone previous to its death. Or, 3. From ossification of the periosteum or other suiTounding tissues. The first of these opinions has been supported by Eicherand and others, who regard as strongly in their favour the fact, that more or less of the old shaft, and at all events the epiphysis, always remains. But in external exfo- liations the granulating action seldom, if ever, fills up the breach; and when a considerable portion of the whole thickness of a bone is destroyed suddenly by inflammation, or is removed by mechani- cal means, the loss of substance is in general not fully restored, wluch it ought to be, according to this view of the matter. In cases where no permanent deficiency remains after the separa- tion of the dead bone, it is generally noticed that the limb be- comes enlarged previously to tliis event; and experiments on the lower animals, as well as observations of what happens in the human body, have been thought to shew that the new shell may begin to be formed before the death of the old shaft. Dr. Mac- donald remarked (1799), that the new bone, when first formed,