197 BONES. the long bones in which it may not take place. Its consequences are in general extremely distressing, since the want of due rigidity renders the limbs very imperfect, and sometimes quite useless, for performing their ordinary duties. The principal cause of this occuiTence is unquestionably the want of due fixture, wliich prevents the fractured extremities from remaining at rest, it being well ascertained that false joints may be certainly produced by subjecting the bones concerned to frequent motion. The best means of prevention are consequently to set the fracture as early as possible, and afterwards to retain the bones steadily in their proper places. Before considering the treatment of false joints, it is neces- sary to ascertain the nature of the structure which constitutes them. It is often said to be similar to that of the natural arti- culations, being composed of two opposite plates of cartilage, a covering of synovial membrane, and a capsular ligament. But in most cases there is merely a tough, fibrous, ligamentous-look- ing texture, which extends from one extremity of the bone to the other; and the nearest approximation to a new articulation which almost ever occurs, consists in the existence of cavities more or less extensive, between the fibres of this connecting substance. The best treatment in general is to maintain perfect rest by particularly careful employment of the usual means. Should this not prove sufficient, the plan originally devised by Mr. White of Manchester in 1760, may be employed. This was to •cut down upon the extremities of the bone, and saw them off; after which, the ordinary treatment of compound fracture being employed, the limb regained its firmness, with more or less shortening, according to circumstances. This operation is greatly facilitated by the use of cutting pliers instead of a saw. It ought not, however, to be performed until the more gentle means have proved unavailing, and unless the patient suffers so much incon- venience from the want of rigidity as to waiTant such a severe proceeding. In the humerus and fore-arm, the muscles are so equally balanced, that the limb, though quite flexible at the