466 PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. secreting action of the bowels, the remaining symptoms are in general removed, if the other more efficient measures prove suc- cessful in subduing the force of the disease. Sometimes the inflammation assumes a chronic form, which, though not attended with much immediate danger, is very distressing, and may lead to permanent affections of a very unpleasant kind. In this case the patient's pulse does not descend to the natural standard, but continues small and frequent; his tongue displays a yellowish- white fur, his skin is hot and dry, he has no aj^petite, his sleep is disturbed, he complains of headache, his complexion is sallow, and the expression of his countenance indicative of anxiety. Free purgation, and blistering of the head, are the best means of counteractiag the morbid condition which gives rise to these symptoms, and which, if permitted to go on, may occasion thick? ening of the membranes, or disorganization of the brain, attended with epilepsy, fatuity, and ultimately with death. It appears that the dura and pia mater may also suffer from concussion, since they sometimes inflame, and produce peculiar symptoms in cases where the head has been subjected to vio- lence, that can act only in this way. Blows which expose the bone are the most common sources of such effects, and frequently give rise to them, though of inconsiderable violence. The patient, after a little confusion or stupor, may feel quite wqII, and follow his ordinary pursuits for several days, at the end of which, generally from the seventh to the eleventh, he begins to shew some indication of the disease that is going on within his head. The pulse becomes frequent and wiry; his tongue is furred; his countenance anxious; his sleep broken; and he feels a general uneasiness, with indisposition for all active exertion, whether of body or mind. Headache, with intolerance of light and noise, then succeeds, with occasional rigors ; but delirium and convul- sions are more slow of appearing than when the cerebral sub- stance is the seat of inflammation. At length these symptoms present themselves, and are speedily followed by insensibility, involuntary discharges from the bowels, and death. On dissec- tion, an effusion of pus is generally foimd occupying a more or