PKINCIPLES OF SUllGERY. 2G4 Shoulder-Joint.—Different methods have been Ibllowed in cutting out the shoulder-joint, but it will be sufficient to describe the one wliich appears to be the most convenient. The surgeon introduces a straight, sharp-pointed knife under the coracoid process, thrusts it down to the head of the humerus, and then cuts perpendicularly, close upon the bone, nearly as far as the attachment of the deltoid. In order to detach the head of the humerus, he introduces the fore-j&nger of his left hand into the joint, and using it as a guide for the knife, sej)arates the attach- ments of the muscles, which are inserted into the greater and smaller tuberosities. The arm being then drawn backwards, the head of the bone protrudes through the wound, and being grasped in the hand, may be readUy sawn off. The glenoid cavity should next be examined, and if it is found to requu-e removal, the best mode of procedure is to thrust a knife through the posterior pai-t of the deltoid to the neck of the scapula, and then cut downwards along its inferior costa, until sufficient space is obtained for introducing the bone-pUers, of which the blades may be easily insinuated so as to enclose the whole part that requires to be taken away. This is much better than attempt- ing to dig out the glenoid cavity tlirough the anterior incision. The only arteries cut during the operation that in general require to be tied, are a branch of the Thoracica humeraria and the anterior circumflex. The edges of the wound should be stitched together, and some light dressing having been applied, the arm ought to be supported by a sling. The patient need not be confined to bed beyond a day or two, or so long as the fever excited by the operation continues ; and when the woimd begins to heal, he must gently exercise the limb to prevent it from becoming stiff. The credit of performing this operation for the first time has been ascribed to Mr. White of Manchester (1769); but there seems good reason for believing that the case being one of necrosis, not caries, he merely removed part of the exfoliation before it had become detached from the living bone. The patient was a boy 14 years of age, who "had been suddenly seized about