PRINCIPLES OF SUKGERY. 490 the nature of it. Of these the most important are the Papular, in which the surface is elevated into little pimples,—the Pustu- lar, which consist in small collections of matter,—the Vesicular, in which the cuticle is elevated by small quantities of fluid effused under it,—and the Squamous, in which the cuticle is rendered thick and scaly. The species and varieties of these different kinds, and others that have been noticed, are so nume- rous, that the most concise description of their distinctive cha- racters would require far more space than can be afforded for the purpose in this work, to which, it may be observed, they do not strictly belong, since, though external in theii- situation, they are remedied chiefly by internal means. They originate, in the first instance, with few exceptions, from constitutional disturbance, but frequently become so natu- ralised to the system, as to continue after the derangement that gave rise to them has ceased to exist. Disorder of the digestive organs is the grand source of their production, and they may be regarded as bearing the same relation to chronic conditions of tliis kind, that erysipelas or erythema doe^ to those of an acute form. The circumstances that occasion this disturbance of the abdominal viscera are very various, and many of them were wont to be regarded as the immediate causes of cutaneous disease ; but it wUl be found that they are not truly so, having always interposed, between then" operation and the affection of the skin, some derangement of the digestive functions, which ought more properly to be considered the cause of the disease. In the treatment it is often sufficient to restore the general health, but more frequently it is necessary to conjoin local means with those employed for this purpose, since, as has been already observed, the morbid action of the sldn is apt to become habitual, and to continue after the derangement in other parts of the system that gave rise to it has ceased to operate. For con-ecting the depraved condition of body, all errora of diet must be carefully ascertained and interdicted. The food should be easily digestible, but small in quantity. Bleeding and purg- ing may be used if there seems to be a tendency to plethora.