251 JOINTS. size of a barley-corn to tliat of a pigeon's egg, and are also very- different in their shape, wliicli is generally round, oval, or lenti- cular,, but sometimes tuberous. They exist either singly or in numbers together, but seldom exceed two or three. They have been discovered in several of the joints, but are by far most common in the knee. Even here, however, their presence may be considered a rare occiu'rence. They generally make their first appearance in adults. The origin of such bodies has been ascribed to the effusion and organization of blood and lymph—to the detachment by fracture of a portion of the articular surface—and to the separa- tion of morbid growths from the margin of the cartilages of the joints. The last of these explanations is on the whole the most probable, as the bodies in question are often observed by the patient to be fixed before they become moveable, and they have been repeatedly foimd on dissection adhering to the extremities of the bones. It may also be observed, that, so far as can be learned by external examination, they do not suffer any change of shape or size after they are first discovered. These bodies occasion ho inconvenience, except when they happen to be squeezed between the opposite articular surfaces ; they then excite a sudden and severe sickening pain, which forces the patient instantly to desist from the exertion in which he was engaged, and may even make him fall at once to the ground. In consequence of this irritation, repeated from time to time, the joint becomes the seat of a dropsical effusion, which is sometimes the first symptom of the disease that attracts the patient's attention, as he is apt to account for the pain previously suffered by referring it to rheumatism. Unless proper means are now employed, the use of the limb may be almost completely lost. The radical cure is easily effected by cutting mto the joint, and extracting the cause of irritation. But this very simple operation is attended with considerable risk of exciting such a degree of inflammation, as to endanger not only the patient's limb, but also his life. In order to diminish the danger, as far as possible, the patient should be confined to bed, and restricted