134 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. form of cerebriform growth. If an Osteo-aneurism, as it lias been calleil, were really to occur, and admitted of distinct recog- nition, ligature of tbe arterial trunk would be worthy of a trial. VEINS. Inflammation of Veins. The veins are more numerous and capacious than the arteries, whence the blood moves through them more slowly and less forcibly. The veins not only communicate by capillary anasto- mosis of their neighbouring branches, but are frequently united in their course ; and hence occasion less inconvenience by their obstruction than that of the arteries does. When the principal trunk of a limb is concerned, the resistance which is opposed to the return of the blood causes more or less swelling. The coats of the veins resemble those of the arteries, but are thinner, more closely connected, and tougher, so that a ligature merely draws them together without cutting the internal ones. The veins are prone to inflammation, which is very much dis- posed to spread, and chiefly in the course of the circulation. The vein affected feels hard and painful, especially when extended. The surface of the skin which covers it is often red, from the ad- jacent tissues taking on the same action. The pain is of a peculiar, oppressive, sickening kind, similar to that which attends inflammation of the glands and absorbents. When these local symptoms are at all acute, they are accompanied with more or less fever, which is distinguished by characters indicative of extreme irritation, whence it is usually named irritative Fever. The pulse is quick and small; the respiration hurried and anxious ; the countenance contracted and expressive of distress; the tongue dry and brown. There is great prostration of strength, and often, especially in the progress of the disorder, delirium. Acute inflammation of the veins, and more especially those of large size, almost always proves fatal. Death may ensue in a few days, but seldom before the end of a week. On dissec- tion, the vein is found thickened in its coats, and containing coagulated blood, or pus, or a mixture of both. There are also