504 PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. a line from its connection with the cornea. The consequences of this inflammation are effusion of lymph on either surface of the iris, which, becoming organized, may cause permanent obliteration of the pupil and adhesion of the iris to the capsule of the lens, or to the cornea. The lymph sometimes exudes in the form of distinct drops, which, when descending to the lower part of the anterior chamber, constitute what is caUed Hypopion. In the treatment of iritis, the ordinary means of depletion, etc., are found to be insufficient for arresting the morbid process. The pain and fever may be thus diminished, but they are not removed ; and the effusion of lymph proceeds as if no attempt had been made to control the disease. The grand remedy for it is mercury, given so as to affect the system ; and if this be done early, while the usual measures for subduing inflammatory action are at the same time employed, and there is no local irritation present, there is almost a certainty of affording speedy and effectual relief.. It is well ascertained that the constitutional action of mercury is the most powerful obstacle to the effusion talcing place, and exerts the strongest influence in promoting the absorption of lymph which has been thrown out. In the first instance, blood should be abstracted generally and locaUy, ac- cording to the violence of the symptoms ; the bowels shoiald be fe'eely evacuated, and then two or three grains of calomel, with a quarter of a grain of opium, are to be given three times a day, until the mouth is affected, when the quantity of the medicine may be diminished so as merely to keep up a moderate degree of ptyalism. In the second stage of the disease, much benefit is often derived from rubbing the forehead and neighbourhood of the eye with a mixture of equal parts of mercurial ointment, opium, and the extract of belladonna. The disease sometimes occurs from the commencement in a chronic form, in wliich case, leeching and counter-irritation, by bKsteriag on the back of the neck, ought to be conjoined with the mercury. The permanent effects of iritis improperly treated or neglected, which consist in obliteration of the pupil, sometimes admit of