140 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. contiguous. Instances of it have been obsei-ved in the femoral, popliteal, carotid, and subclavian vessels, from wounds. Aneurismal varix is generally more inconvenient than dangerous, the veins, after they become fuUy distended, usually remaining without any further change. It is, therefore, seldom necessary to do more than apply a bandage to the limb, with a compress over the injured part. Should the swelling, pain, or other symptoms of the case be so severe as to warrant an opera- tion, a radical one may be performed by tying the wounded artery both above and below the opening. Varicose Aneurism. When, in the case of a vein and artery communicating, the blood issues from the latter vessel into the cellular substance, so as to constitute a false aneurism, and at the same time continues to gain access to the vein, a combination of aneurism and aneurismal varix results, which has been named Varicose Aneurism. More correctly, this condition would have the title of Aneurismal Varix, since its peculiarity is not in the aneurism, but in the complication of venous distension by the force of arterial blood. In 1831''^ I put upon record a remarkable case, in which an aneurism of the abdominal aorta communicated with the vena cava; and similar cases of spontaneous injury have since been observed. With few exceptions, the bend of the arm has been the seat of this occurrence, in consequence of wounds. Owing to the free passage which remains for the blood, and the absence of regurgitation or stagnation, there is little or no tendency to coagrdation; and in operating here I have found the interior of the sac perfectly white and smooth, like the inner surface of an artery, ISTo benefit, consequently, would be derived from the simple ligature of the humeral; and the proper course is to lay open the cavity, and apply two ligatures to the vessel, one above and the other below the aperture. But so little inconvenience is usually experienced from the disease, that the better course in general is to abstain from interference. * Contributions to the Pathology and Practice of Surgery, p. 286.