JOINTS. 247 Vefrteh'ce.—The vertebrae are very seldom dislocated without fractivre or morbid alteration of the bones ; and in all cases the accident is of importance chiefly in respect of the organs con- tained within the vertebral column, along with which, therefore, it may be more properly considered. y Wounds of the Joints, and Compound Dislocations. The synovial membrane is very prone to acute inflammation, wJ, «^h causes violent constitutional disturbance, and leads to the most destructive morbid alterations. Wounds of the joints, therefore, must always be regarded as serious injm-ies ; and the more so in proportion to the size of the joint, and degree of irrita- tion which accompanies the wound. The great object in treating such wounds should be to make them heal, if possible, by the first intention, which, of course, pre- vents the necessity of inflammation as the precursor of granulat- ing action. With this view, all sources of irritation, whether direct or indirect, that may seem to exist, ought to be removed. If there is displacement of the articvdating surfaces, they ought to be accurately reduced; and if the head of a bone protrudes, it should be cut away with the saw or pliers, since the distension that would be caused by its pressure would be apt to excite in- flammation. The edges of the wound should be placed in con- tact, and assiduously cooled by wet cloths frequently changed, while motion of the limb is carefully prevented by the applica- tion of splints. The constitutional treatment is to be conducted with the same view. The diet, in general, should be strictly antiphlogistic ; but here exceptions may require to be made on account of the peculiar circumstances of the case. When compound dislocations are treated on these principles, the necessity for amputation, which used formerly to be generally perfonned as their only remedy, is greatly lessened. The anlde- joiat is most subject to the accident, and the formidable appear- ances which are presented by it seem at first sight to warrant the removal of the limb ; but* when the projecting extremities of the bones are sawn off, the distortion rectified by suitable splints