84 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. the ordinary form of cerebriform sarcoma, and that the prospect of benefit from removal by operation is consequently not so unfavourable. Scrofulous Sarcoma. The naorbid formation usually called Scrofula, presents different appearances, according to the tissue affected. In general, it constitutes rounded masses or tubercles, as they are named, ■which consists of a gra^h-ye]J.ow, gritty, semi-organised- looking substance. It sometimes is not condensed and circum- scribed in this way, but exists in a diffused state, so as to produce more or less change in the structm-e concerned. Lj the^ bones, it is confined to^]je,^nceUated texture, the interstices of ■which it fills. In the synovial membrane it produces a remarkable tliickening, softening, and conversion into a sort of gelatinous consistence. In the lungs, lymphatic and mesenteric glands, subcutaneous tissue, brain, and dura mater, it occurs in the tubercular form. It is not attended ■with pain, and hardly pro- duces any inconvenience, except by its bulk causing deformity, or pressing injuriously on important organs. The morbid formations generally remain stationary for a longer or shorter period, and then are either absorbed, or, as more frequently happens, suppurate, so as to constitute abscesses, con^ taining thin sero-purulenfc. ^S^d, ■with flakes of scrofulous matter floating in it. When the matter is discharged, the restorative process advances slowly and imperfectly; indolent, sinuses gr wea]^ulcers almost always result; and owing to the situation of the disease, or the nature of the tissues affected, as may too frequently be seen in regard to the lungs and bones, a cure is, perhaps, never accomplished. The disposition to scrofulous action exists most strongly in childhood, fEppj .tv?p Jtp Jfpjirteen years of age ; but traces of its effects are sometimes observed much earlier, and it would be difficult to prove that its operation does not occasionally continue in the most advanced age. The morbid tendency may be inheri- ted as a peculiarity of constitution, and is usually associated with