MOUTH. 533 ligature, though they have all been often employed for this purpose, are decidedly less eligible means than the knife. The two first are tedious and painful in then' operation; and the ligature, while it is liable to these objections, is also attended with great difficulty in its application, owing to the depth of the parts concerned, and the involuntary resistance of the patient. The only gTOu.nd of declining excision is the apprehension of hemorrhage ; but, if the cutting instrument is kept parallel with the great vessels, there cannot be the slightest risk of this. It is not necessary to remove the whole of the tumour, since the portion that remains is soon diminished by absorption, so as to occasion no further inconvenience. Curved scissors might be supposed the most efficient instrument for this operation, but on trial are found not to be so. They can hardly be made to cut thi'ough the whole thickness of the mass at one stroke, and it is extremely difl&ciLlt to make a second, owing to the struggles which are induced by the bleeding. The tumour thus partially detached, hangs down into the pharynx, where it excites irrita- tion that causes coughing or retching, and it has even happened that death I'esulted from this circumstance. The easiest and safest method is to seize the tumour with hooked forceps, and having put it on the stretch, to cut away as much of it as seems .necessary with a probe-pointed slightly-curved bistoury. Teeth. The teeth generally begin to appear in the mouth between the seventh and tenth months, and present themselves in the following order:—1. The two front incisors of the lower jaw ; 2. The four incisors of the upper jaw; 3. The two lateral inci- sors of the lower jaw; 4. The four anterior grinders ; 5. The canine; and 6. The four posterior grinders. The process of dentition, particularly that part of it in which the teeth, by pressing upon the gum, induce absorption of it, and thus form a breach to allow their protrusion, is attended with irritation, which varies in degi'ee, and produces effects of corresponding importance, both local and general. Uneasiness of the mouth,