450 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. caiisecl a swelling, wliicli alarms the patient, occasions a dragging uneasy feeling in the groin and back, aggravated by standing or wallving, and is itself also sometimes the seat of disagreeable sensations. When the dilatation occurs high in the cord, near the external ring, it sometimes bears a great resemblance to in- giunal hernia. In order to distinguish between the two diseases, the patient is generally laid in the horizontal posture, when the swelling disappears, whether of the one land or the other. Pressure is then made at the ring, and the patient rises, when the swelling will reappear if depending upon vascular enlarge- ment, as the blood cannot thus be prevented from finding its way through the arteries, but the tumour will not return if of a hernial nature. This test, thoiigh often decisive, is frequently ambiguous ; and it seems a more certain means of ascertaining the truth to compress the neck of the swelling, while the patient stands erect, when, if composed of dilated veins, it will become more tense. The same diagnosis is applicable for the recognition of swellings in this situation dependent upon serous effusion between the vessels composing the spermatic cord, which is not unfrequently met with in children, and is apt to be mistaken for hernia. Cirsocele is met with chiefly in young men between twenty and thirty, but frequently occurs soon after puberty. It exists in very various degrees of size, and occasions more or less inconvenience accordingly. It does not seem to interfere with the functions of the testicle. The circumstances which determine the commencement of the disease have not been ascertained. It is certainly more common in persons who have indulged in venereal excesses, but often exists quite unconnected with any such habits. It tends to increase to a certain extent, and then either remains stationary or diminishes. The patient is generally rendered very anxious by the complaint; but the small inconvenience which attends it does not warrant any very severe measiu'es for its relief "Wash- ing with cold water completely removes the swelling for a time, by corrugating the scrotum, and bracing \ip the testicle to the pubis. A suspensory bandage effects this more permanently,