297 THKOAT. felt with, the fingers, it is most probable that the patient's feeKng is deceptive, proceeding from imagination alone, or some irrita- tion of the throat, and not dependent upon the actual presence of the foreign body, which may have descended or been ejected. And even should it be actually detained in the oesophagus, it would be safer to trust its removal to the ulcerative process, which wni soon be excited by its pressure on the tissues concerned, than to persevere in fishing for it with any of the ingenious but in- effective contrivances that have been devised for the purpose. (Esophagotomy. The object of this operation is, to make an opening into the oesophagus, or lower part of the pharynx, to extract a foreign body that cannot be removed otherwise; but such a circum- stance happens so rarely that there are few instances of a surgeon being called upon in the whole course of his practice to perform the operation. Upon two occasions I have cut into the throat for the removal of a piece of bone which had passed through the coats of the oesophagus and caused deep-seated suppuration. In a third case I performed oesophagotomy for the extraction of a copper coin (Swedish penny), which had been impacted for more than two months in the cesophagus, opposite the upper bone of the sternum. All the patients were com- pletely and permanently relieved. The patient should be laid reclining, with the head bent backwards, and to the right side. An incision about two inches and a half in length is then to be made in the middle of the triangular hollow at the upper part of the neck, which is bounded below by the sterno-mastoid and sterno-hyoid muscles. It should extend from the upper margin of the thyroid to a little below the cricoid cartilage. The platysma myoides and fascia of the neck having been successively divided, the sheath of the vessels will come into view, and the surgeon then making an assistant press the larynx to the right side, dissects inwards to the pharynx, avoiding, if possible, the superior thyroid artery, and tying it if cut, until he feels the foreign body through the coats of the tube,