276 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. bladed as merely to puncture the skin. The patient was in- stantly and completely relieved, without any pain or subsequent inconvenience. It appears that nearly at the same time Dieffen- bacli had adopted this method, and that ten years earlier it had been practised in one case by the late M. Dupuytren. Every case of wry-neck that has come under my care since the one just mentioned, I have treated in this manner with invariable success. I have seldom found it necessary to divide more than the sternal portion of the muscle, at the distance of an ijich above the clavicla No dressing or indeed after-treatment of any kind is required, since the distorted parts soon regain their natural position. Straiismus. Strabismus or squinting has always been loiown to depend upon unequal action of the recti muscles of the eyeball, and the idea of affording relief by their division has occasionally pre- sented itself, though not until lately carried into effect. It was only in 1838 that Dieffeubach first performed this operation with success, and since that time it may be said, without exaggeration, to have been repeated in thousands of cases. The procedure being new was eagerly seized upon by the youngest and least experienced members of the profession as an unappropriated territory, wliich might be made their own through the claim of early possession, and the public made to believe, by newspaper advertisements and the titles of trumpery pamphlets on the sub- ject, that the operation was somehow different in its nature from the ordinary practice of surgery—not requiring for its proper performance the usual qualifications of experience, dexterity, and judgment—and best exercised by persons having no claim to confidence in any other department of the profession. The con- sequences may be readily anticipated. No discrimination of cases being made, and no difference in the treatment adopted according to the variety of cii'cumstances, while the fundamental doctrine of invariable success opposed that fair statement of the results which might have tended to improvement, fi-equent failures, and the loss of not a few eyes, have brought the opera-