BLOOD-VESSELS. 93 ployed little forceps, the blades of which could be approximated with regulated force by a screw passing through the handles. Mr. Travers conjoined pressure with division of the inner coats, by tying a ligature tightly with a slip-knot, and removing it from a few hours to two days afterwards. These ingenious and reason- able trials occasionally proved successful in practice, but the results have been very irregular. The obliteration of human arteries, though accomphshed by the same process, appears to be not so readily induced or completed as in the lower animals. And there are few situations in which the vessels are sufficiently accessible to admit of the necessary manipulations for affecting a temporary obstruction. All proceedings with this view are therefore now abandoned, and the method invariably followed consists in tying the vessel firmly with a small round silk liga- ture, wliich is left to be detached by the ulcerative absorption instituted throiigh the initation caused by its presence; the effusion of lymph that directly succeeds its application sealing up the cavity both above and below, so as to prevent hemorrhage during the process of separation. M. Amussat of Paris contrived another method of obstruct- ing large arteries, which generally succeeds in the lower animals, and has also been executed with success on the human subject. It consists in seizing the bare coats of the artery transversely with two pairs of forceps, and then, separating the two instru- ments from each other, so as to nipture the internal coats, and ■ throw them into folds. The effect of this procedure is interest- ing in respect to the pathology of the arteries, but will not probably be preferred in practice to that of the ligature. Lymph is also effused from the arterial coats as a consequence of inflammation ; and the spontaneous obstructions which tlius ensue deserve much attention. Though probably not very un- common, they escaped observation until lately, and are yet far from being generally known. The inflammation may be limited to a small part of the vessel, or affect nearly the whole of the arterial system. Tlie circumstances immediately concerned in its production are unknown ; but it is observed to be nearly con-