11 INFLAMMATION. then fever results ; at other times the consequent disorder is confined to a part merely. Tliis fellow-suffering, whether partiatl or general, is usually expressed by the term Sympathy. Variovis explanations have been offered to account for it, of which the following are most deserving of notice :—1. The anastomosis of j Blood-vessels, as that of the epigastric and mammary arteries, to | which has been attributed the fellow-sufferiag of the iiterus and mamma; 2. Continuity of Texture, as that of the conjunctiva, and lining membrane of the nose, to which the sneezing caused by exposing the eyes to a bright light has been referred; 3. Nervous Communication, as that between the phrenic and cervical nerves, which has been supposed to account for pain being felt in the shoulder when the liver is inflamed ; 4. The Medium of Sensation, as when stimulants applied to the nose cause sneezing, though .they do not induce this effect during insensibility; 5, Participation in the same function, as when the breasts become painful in the early months of pregnancy. None of these explanations adjnit of general application in accounting for sympathy; and many cases of it are not explicable by any of them. But though the cause of sympathy is at present, and probably ever will be, beyond the reach of human under- standing, the facts which are generally observed in regard to its manifestations are fair subjects of inquiry, and of the utmost importance in practice. Of these, the six following, or what may be called the laws of sympathetic action, deserve especial attention:— — 1. Disturbance of action in one part occasions disturbance in. others. In a healthy state of the system, all the organs perform certain actions with a certain degree of vigour, and whenever any onie of them has its activity either excited or diminished, more or less change ensues in the action of others, which may thus become disordered in whole or in part. The effect of excited action in causing sympathetic derangement is weU known, as in the common case of fever attending inflammation; but the consequences of diminished action are more apt to be