398 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. for carrying away the urine, wMcli otherwise would be very apt to enter the cellular substance. A piece of flexible catheter answers very conveniently for the purpose, and the exchange should not be effected before the end of at least twenty-four hours. The patient should lie on his side, inclining forwards, to promote the discharge of urine ; and great care must be taken that the tube does not become obstructed by mucus, or in any other way. When the cellular substance surrounding the wound has become consolidated by adhesive effusion, as happens in a day or two, a plug may be fitted into the orifice of the can- ula, and withdrawn from time to time; but it generally hap- pens that the old passage is soon restored, after the bladder has been freed from the irritation of its accumulated contents. The bladder may be reached from the perineum by making a deep incision in the line extending from the bulb to the anus, and then pushing a straight bistoury, guided by a finger in the rectum, into the membranous part of the urethra. Puncturing from the rectum may have been suggested by the opening, which is sometimes formed naturally between it and the bladder, or prostatic portion of the urethra. In cases of complete retention, where the parts are not altered by disease, there can certainly be no easier or more satisfactory mode of re^ lieving the patient by operation. The bladder behind the pros- tate, for the extent of an inch or more, is not covered with peritoneum; and the vesiculcs seminales, though they meet together at the gland, diverge from each other in proceeding backwards, so as to leave sufficient space for the puncture. The vasa deferentia lie near the centre, and may perhaps be injured, even though the trocar is introduced exactly in the mesial plane; but any inconvenience that might be expected to result from this source ought not to be regarded as a serious objection to a proceeding which affords the only means of averting nearly certain death, especially as experience does not confirm the apprehension. When the operation is performed, the patient should be laid on his back at the edge of the bed, with his knees bent and thighs held up, so as to present the parts fairly to the