EXTERNAL INJURIES. 147 sixbstances often acquire a fibrous cyst, and cause no disagreeable symptoms, they more frequently excite inflammation, which leads to various troublesome consequences, and may do so after lying for a long while without causing disturbance. The finger is the best probe for detecting the ball or other foreign body ; and when further search is requisite to find it, the nature of the tissues concerned ought to be carefully considered, since the direction of its course is much affected by those of dense and unyielding structure, as the bones, fasciae, and even the skin. The velocity of the ball, and the position of the body when it entered, ought also to be taken into accoimt. When the injury is so severe as to lender amputation necessary, it has been disputed whether the operation ought to be performed immediately, or be delayed until the primary inflammation subsides, and suppuration is established. In reference to this question, the effects of gun-shot wounds may be divided into four stages :—1. Confusion and prostration of strength, commencing immediately after the injury is sustained, and lasting seldom less than one, or more than six hours, unless it terminates in sinking. 2. Eeturn of strength, attended with more composure of mind, and sensation of the injury. This con- tinues until inflammation begins, which is hardly deferred beyond twenty-four hours. 3. Inflammation, ending in death, gangrene, or suppuration, and occupying from one to several days. 4. Suppuration, which continues until the patient re- covers, or has his strength completely exhausted, and dies,— which may be in the course of weeks, or not until the end of months. Amputation may be performed with most advantage in the second and fourth of these stages. Different opinions were formerly entertained as to which of them was preferable ; but the extensive experience of the military surgeons who were engaged in the Peninsular War decided the question ; and it is now admitted that amputation during the second stage is out of all proportion most successful; to say nothing of the risk which men wounded on the field of battle must run, if permitted to go through the inflammatory stage, while their shattered