MUSCLES. 277 tiou into a considerable degree of discredit. Having had occasion to divide the muscles for squinting very extensively in that class of patients which permitted me to watch the progress and ascertain the final issue of the treatment, I feel entitled to express a highly favourable opinion of the operation, provided it be conducted on proper principles; and these I will now endeavour to explain. Strabismus is not a congenital derangement, as used to be thought, but commences during infancy or the early years of childhood. It freqxiently seems to be connected with some of the febrile affections incident to this age ; and though often met ^ ' with in several members of the same family, cannot justly be attributed to imitation. The obliquity is for the most part con- fined to one eye, and when both are affected, they suffer alter- nately. In a very large proportion of cases the eyeball is turned inwards to the nose, so that the leer or outward squint is not . seen, I should say, more than once in fifty cases. Squinting is not only unseemly in appearance, but usually attended with more or less deficiency in the power of vision,—the patient being seldom able to read or distinguish any minute objects with the affected eye. This was formerly thought to cause the complaint, but is now ascertained to be its effect, and to depend merely upon the inability of attending to the different impressions made • on the eyes at the same time, so that one of tliem being habitually disregarded, the organ ceases to be serviceable. A lady who squinted inwards with both eyes alternately found that she saw distant objects best with one, and near ones with the otlier. A gentleman who squinted outwards with both eyes alternately complained that, in driving, he felt great difficulty in avoiding obstacles from inability to judge accurately of distances. If the eyes are restored to their proper directions at an early age, the vision of both usually becomes perfect, but in elderly persons there is seldom more than a partial improvement. The internal or external recti muscles occasion the obliquity, but do not affect this, as in the case of club-foot or wry-neck, by permanent contraction. The patient can usually render the eye straight by a voluntary effort, and whenever the sound one is