172 PRINCirLES OF SURGERY. be introduced at tlie lower margin of the axilla, and brought out at the point where it is entered in the former way. 3. The surgeon cuts in a semilunar direction from one side of the deltoid to the other, so as to form a large flap of this muscle, which, being dissected from its subjacent connections, and held up, exposes the joint, allows the disarticulation to be completed, and permits the fingers of the assistant to be introduced to com- ■press the vessels before they are divided, together with the re- maining muscles and integuments, by a transverse incision. After aU of these operations, of which the one first mentioned should be preferred when circumstances permit its performance, which is generally the case, the arteries ought to be tied, the edges of the flaps stitched together, and a proper bandage applied. The Scapula is liable to the formation of morbid growths, which have on various occasions led to partial, but never to its entire removal, until I performed tlds operation six years ago. It might be expected that the arm concerned, in the event of being preserved, must remain a mere useless appendage; but on the contrary, experience has shown that its strength and mobility are sufficient for all ordinary purposes. There is now dis- charging the duties of a provincial letter-carrier, one of my patients who can lift heavy weights, and has the perfect use of his arm from the elbow downwards. Indeed, there is not only complete mobility, but also a considerable power of motion at the shoulder from the trapezius, and other muscles—which were attached to the scapula—acting through adhesion to the soft textures lying between them and the humerus. The scapula may be removed either alone or together with the arm. In the former case, two incisions should be made in this form f, one extending from the clavicle, a little nearer the sternum than its connections with the arenoid process ; and the other, being transverse in its direction from the acromion to the posterior edge of the tumour. The flaps thus formed having been dissected from the subjacent surface, the clavicle is divided at the part where it is exposed, and held outwards by an assistant, while the operator cuts through the articular textures, and