PEINCIPLES OF SURGERY. not amenable to the ordinary treatment, but I have ascertained freely, enjoin rest in the horizontal posture, and apply a lotion of acetate of lead with opium to the scrotum. After the pain and tenderness have subsided, a degree of swelling frequently remains, for which discutient applications should be em- ployed, but with due caution, so as not to occasion a relapse, by producing too much irritation. Hydrocele. By Hydrocele is understood an accumulation of serous fluid in the cavity of the tunic(x_ vaginalis^ or confined to the part covering the spermatic cord. In the former case, which is by far the most common, the swelling has generally a pyramidal figure, the large extremity being downwards,—is devoid of pain and sensibility, except at the lower and back part where the testicle lies,—appears translucent when placed between the eye and a candle in a dark chamber,—and is felt to fluctuate when pressed between the fingers alternately. In hydroceles of old standing and large size, the tunica vaginalis often becomes dis- tended to an equal size quite up to the external ring, and so thickened that no translucency can be perceived. The fluctua- tion, insensibility to pressure except in the region of the testicle, and the history of the case, are then the only diagnostics from a swelling of the gland; and, if they should leave any doubt, it may be removed by a puncture. From hernia, hydrocele may always be distinguished by compressing the neck of the tumom- between the fingers. In hydrocele of the cord, as collections of fluid in this situation are named, the swelling is usually a'oiind pr^ oval, fluctuating, and translucent, leaving the testicle quite distinct, so that it may be felt on aU sides. It is some- times associated with the other form of the disease, and can then hardly be recognised except by evacuating one or other of the sacs. The title of Spermatocele has been aj)plied to hydi-ocele of the cord when its contents are colourless, slightly opalescent, and present numerous spermatozoa under the microscope. It was thought that this character denoted a form of the disease