426 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. proves sufficient. In more severe, cases, injections, of two or three ounces of warm water, with a few drops of laudanum, or the sedative solution of opium, may be thrown into the rectum once a day or oftener. Benefit is also derived on some occasions from hyoscyamus' and camphor, administered in the form of pill, also from ten or twelve drops of balsam of copaiva, with five ov- six of the sedative solution, taken two or three times a day, and from small doses of Dover's powder, with colchicum. 1 Blisters applied to the sacrum or perineum, contrary to what might be expected, sometimes afford relief, and a setou in the latter situation has succeeded after the trial of other means ^ I in vain. The operation of vesicoe lotura, or injecting the bladder, has often been used with temporary but seldom with any per- manent advantage, A solution of the nitrate of silver is intro- duced by means of a catheter and syringe, or elastic bag, in such quantity as the irritable bladder is capable of receiving, and allowed to remain untU the desu'e of exx^ulsion leads to its discharge. In cases which derive benefit from this practice, it is observed that the quantity of fluid injected, and the time it is per- mitted to remain, gradually increase. The disease generally proves ( extremely obstinate, and is not unfrequently found incurable. Catarrh of the Bladder. This title is applied to an inordinate secretion of mucus from the bladder, and discharge of it in the urine, at the bottom of which, when voided, it forms a glairy sediment, sometimes nearly equal in quantity to the fluid. The disease usually occurs associated with the one last mentioned, and, though not necessarily accompanying, hardly exists independently of it. What has been said in regard to the causes and treatment of that affection will therefore apply equally to this. Hcematuria. This, as the name implies, is a discharge of blood, which may occur as a symptom of other diseases, or exist as an independent affection. In the latter case, the hemorrhage is sometimes very