354 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGEEY. and proceeds to expose the sac, by raising and dividing with the forceps and knife the layers of condensed cellular substance which cover it. If glands come in the way, they must be dis- sected oflf the hernial tumour; and when the sac is approached, the operator should be particularly careful to elevate the layer he wishes to divide at the fundus or most projecting part of the bag, as there is here most fluid between it and the enclosed intestine. In cases of femoral hernia requiring operation, the contents of the tumour are almost always recently protruded, and therefore seldom present those adhesions or other morbid alterations which frequently render the inguinal operation so embarrassing. The direction in which the stricture should be divided has afforded fruitful subject of discussion. If the knife is carried upwards, so as to cut through the crural arch, it must evidently endanger the spermatic cord or round ligament. This, therefore, which was the old operation, is decidedly objectionable. Gim- bernat of Madrid observed (1793), that the stricture in femoral hernia on the pubic side of the neck of the sac was not situated, as had been erroneously believed before, at the tuberosity of the pubis, but at the distance of between one and two inches from it, and was formed by what is now called the crescentic margin of the crural arch. The attachment of the fascise to the bone, between this point and the tuberosity of the pubis, has been named Gimbernat's ligament—an appellation which, by convey- ing the idea of a distinct independent structure, has occasioned much confusion. Having ascertained this important anatomical fact, Gimbernat introduced a new method of relieving the stric- ture, which was to cut inwards from the neck of the sac towards the pubis. He operated very rudely, by passing a grooved director and bistoury between the intestine and stricture into the abdomen, and then separating them so as to make a very free division of the fasciae, and thus endanger the bladder, or even the uterus if distended. The principle of the operation, however, being good, was adopted in practice, and would probably long ere now have been invariably acted on, were it not that, in post