INFLAMMATION. 23 antimony, given in small and frequently repeated doses, so as to maintain a sliglit nausea, or even occasional vomiting. Tlie warm bath is a powerful diaphoretic, and would often be very advantageous if it could be procured ; but the difficulties which usually attend its employment in private practice are so great as almost to proscribe it. The vapour-bath is more readily administered, and may perhaps come into general use. All the apparatus required is a piece of lead or tin tube three or four feet in length, a tea kettle, and a blanket. The patient sits on a stool near the fire and covered with the blanket. The tube is attached to the spout of the kettle by one extremity, and has the other placed under the stool. The heat may be ascertained by a thermometer, and regulated by the degree of ebullition. Much benefit is frequently derived from the semi-cupium or hip-bath, and the pediluvium or foot-bath; and still more local baths are of great service in the form of Fomentations and Poultices. Fomentation is generally effected by applying a piece of flannel or a sponge wi'ung out of hot water, and changing this from time to time as it cools, for the space of fifteen or twenty minutes. A flannel bag containing chamomile flowers, and allowed to cool sufiiciently after being boiled a short while, is preferred by many for the purpose ; and a decoction of poppy heads also is occa- sionally employed. Poultices may be prepared from any sub- stance which, together with warm water or milk, constitutes a soft pulpy mass, capable of retaining the heat and moisture. Bread, barley-meal, and linseed-meal, are chiefly used; but caiTots, turnips, and leaves such as those of spinach and hemlock, are thought preferable in certain cases. These articles are either enclosed in a thin linen or muslin bag, or placed directly on the part concerned, in which case it is necessary to spread some butter or other oily substance on the poultice, to prevent it from adheiing inconveniently to the surface of the body. Instead of poultices, some folds of lint, moistened with hot water, may be applied, and covered with a piece of oiled silk. Heat is some- times applied locally without moisture, as by means of a bag containing heated salt, but is then found to be not so efficacious.