177 BONES. surface, both of the old bone and of that newly formed. A fibro- cartilaginous sort of mass fills the cavity that exists while this is going on, and when the cure is completed, the bone, if divided, exposes a compact osseous mass, which in the course of time acquu-es a cancellated texture, but has not the medullary canal perfectly restored. The time required for this process varies with the size of the bone, being performed most quickly when it is smallest, and vice versa. The shaft of one of the large bones, such as the femur or tibia, generally acquires rigidity in the course of four or five weeks, but does not regain suflEicient strength for supporting the body or performing locomotion until several weeks afterwards ; and, so far as can be judged from the opportunities of observa- tion occasionally afforded, is not completely ossified - at the fractured part before the lapse of several months. The age, con- stitiition, and peculiar circumstances of the patient also cause variations in the process of cure. It is most speedy in youth and health. In pregnancy it is alleged to be performed in general with less energy than usual. Eest of the limb promotes it, and motion not only retards, but if considerable or long-con- tinued, altogether prevents it; in which case the substance that ought to have formed the new bone acquires the appearance and properties of ligament, so as to render the limb flexible, and con- stitute what is called an artificial joint, the different kinds and ti'eatment of which will be more particularly considered after- wards. In treating fractures, it is of great consequence to set or replace the extremities of the bone as soon as possible after the injury is sustained, in order to prevent the bad effects of their continued imtation, to effect the adjustment before it is impeded by swelling of the limb or thickening of the parts which surround the bones, and to avoid disturbing the process of reunion by altering the position of the broken surfaces at a later period. When swelling and tension are actually present, it is sometimes thought proper to delay the adjustment until these symptoms are subdued by leeches and fomentations ; but as such means can N