PELVIS. 415 time, ynth. his left hand, holding down the rectum, and feeling what way is made with the knife. He then introduces his finger into the bladder, desires the staff to be withdrawn, and conducts in the forceps. He searches for the stone with the blades closed, and having found it, opens them very wide, depresses, and then closes them. By gently relaxing his hold, and renewing it, he shifts the position of the calculus, if unfavourable for extraction, and, with the assistance of his left fore-finger, proceeds to draw out the stone, not directly, but by a motion in alternate direc- tions, so as to dilate the margin of the wound without tearing. Forcible efforts ought never to be used in doing this ; and it is much better to introduce the knife again, if the opening proves too small. After one stone has been removed, the bladder ought to be searched for more, with a sound introduced through the wound ; and if any are detected, they must be removed in the same way as the first. Should the calculus be broken, its frag- ments must be carefully extracted with the scoop if small, or the forceps if large. The tube is then to be introduced, either alone, or, if there is much tendency to hemorrhage, with some folds of lint wrapped round its middle.; after which the patient may be placed in bed, on his right side, with the limbs moder- ately bent. The after treatment in cases that proceed favourably is ex- i tremely simple. Means must be employed to prevent the urine ' which distils through the tube fi-om wetting the bed, by interpos- ing a piece of oHed cloth between it and a folded blanket laid under the breech. The diet, during the first three or four days, should be sparing, and of a farinaceous kind. Gentle laxatives, such as castor-oil, are to be administered as occasion may require. The tube may be withdrawn at the end of either two or three days. | About the ninth day a little mine is generally observed to issue [ from the urethra; and when the natural passage thus begins to ■ be resumed, the discharge by the wound very soon ceases, so that ^ by the thirteenth or fifteenth day the whole is evacuated by the I penis. The bad consequences of the operation are:—1. Sinking ;