BONES. 183 any resistance to the distorting tendency of the weight of the limb and the retraction of its muscles, there is always much eversion of the foot and bending of the leg, the upper extremity of the tibia pressing upon the skin, or projecting through it owing to the lower one being pulled upwards and backwards by the gastrocnemii muscles. Various methods are followed in treating this common and important fracture. It is evident that the extended position is objectionable, from not affording any relaxation to the muscles which produce the distortion, and that, therefore, the knee ought, if possible, to be bent. This may be done either by simply laying the limb on its outer side, properly supported with splints, or by placing it on a double inclined plane. It will be found that, owing to peculiarities in the seat and direction of the fracture, the extremities are retained in apposition more easily, sometimes by one of these modes, sometimes by the other. When the fracture occurs very near the knee, the upper fragment becomes subject to the action of the extensors of the knee, and the straight position, consequently, is required to keep the broken surfaces in contact. The patella is occasionally fractured, both by the direct effect of external violence, and also, as it appears, by inordinate con- traction of the muscles attached to it. In the former case, which is more rare than the other, the fracture is generally commiauted, and sometimes longitudinal. In the latter, it is always transverse, and allows the two portions to be widely separated, so that the condyles of the femur can be felt between them. The nature of the injury is consequently very obvious, and is stiU further indicated by the complete loss of power over the joint which attends it. When the fracture is longitudinal or comminuted, it is distinguished by pain, mobility of the fragments, and crepitus. Eeunion of the transverse fracture is opposed by the following circumstances:—1. The difiiculty of approximating the broken surfaces, and keeping them steady. 2. The presence of the fluid of the joint, which is secreted in increased quantity, owing to tlie irritation of the injury. 3. The want of vascular parts to assisi