362 PRINCIPLES OF SURGEEY. probe-poi^^ted bistoury, guided on the finger. To prevent contrac- tion of the wound, it will be necessary to introduce daily, untU the cure is completed, a tent of lint smeared with some unctuous matter. If there is no appearance of an anus, and the lower part of the rectum is wanting, the prognosis must be very unfavour- able, since such a malformation is usually associated with other imperfections of the system ; and though it should not be so complicated, is remedied with great difficxilty, as the opening made by incision through the integuments and subjacent tissues, even if it reaches the rectum, and suffices in the first instance for allowing the evacuations, is very apt to contract, or become almost obliterated, notwithstanding every care that can be taken to prevent it from doing so. The child should be placed upon its back, and have its thighs held up so as to expose the parts fairly to view. The surgeon then makes an incision about an inch in length in the mesial plane, having its posterior extremity about half an inch distant from the os coccygis. Making way with the knife, he introduces his finger in the direction of the hollow of the sacrum,—and if the gut is near, he will discover it by the fluc- tuation of its contents. If he succeds in puncturing the coats of the intestine, the opening is to be enlarged to a suitable extent, and prevented from closing by the introduction of a tent. But if he faUs in finding the gut within the distance of at most two inches from the surface, he need not prosecute the search further. In cases where a communication exists between the rectum and bladder or vagina, assistance may be derived in discoveriug the obstructed extremity by introducing a director through the pre- ternatural passage into the cavity of the intestine. There are some cases on record in which life has been preserved by cutting into the colon, but such attempts can hardly be recommended. Stricture of the Rectum. Stricture of the rectum sometimes, but very rarely, exists as a congenital imperfection, and almost always depends upon changes in the stmcture of the coats of the intestine taking place in the progress of life, especially during its middle and later