JOINTS. 233 consequences, though not certainly serious, are generally incon- venient, and often destructive of the limb. Such accidents, therefore, ought always to be treated with attention, so that nothing may be neglected in any way calculated to guard against bad consequences to the joint. The means that afford most relief from the pain directly caused by the injury, consist in the application of hot fomenta- tions and the preservation of perfect rest. Tlie ecchymosis is often considered a warrant for leeching or cupping; but, as has been already explained, the blood which produces the discolora- tion, being effused from the vessels, cannot be' withdrawn in either of these ways, and must be removed by absorption. If symptoms of inflammation come on, blood should be extracted freely, and the other means employed that will be .mentioned when the inflammation of joints is considered. After the injured part has ceased to be painful on pressure or motion, and remains merely swelled and stiff, it ought to be supported by a bandage, and at the same time have some stimulating ointment or lotion applied to promote absorption. Blistering, warm pumping, the vapour-bath, friction, and gentle but frequently repeated exer- cise, are useful at the same time, and witb the same view. Dislocation. By Dislocation is understood displacement of the respective surfaces of an articnlation. The dislocation may be partial or complete ; and also simple or compound, in the same sense of these terms as when they are used with reference to fractures. It is simple dislocations only which will be considered under this section, as those which are compound may be arranged more con- veniently imder wounds of the joints. The joints least subject to strains are most readily dislocated, since the mobility and freedom of ligamentous connection which protect them from the former injury expose them to the latter. The circumstance of having been formerly dislocated increases the predisposition. The causes Of dislocation are—1. external violence ; 2. inordinate muscular action ; and 3. diseased altera-