109 BLOOD-VESSELS. less impeded by the disease, also contributes to prevent this. It has been thought by Dr. Pany of Bath, M. Maimoir of Geneva, etc., that new branches are occasionally formed, after a time, between, the obstructed extremities of the artery, leading directly from the one to the other; but there can be no doubt that the alleged new vessels are really the old ones of the sheath, which become enlarged in a greater proportion than the neighbouring capillaries, conformably with a well-ascertained law of anasto- motic circulation, viz., that those branches have the greatest tendency to enlarge which lie most nearly in the course of the obstructed vessel. In order to prepare the new passage for nourishing the limb, it has been proposed to delay operating in recent cases ; but the inconvenience attending a large sac, the contents of which are sometimes slowly and imperfectly absorbed, or excite irritation that induces suppuration, and the risk of the artery becoming diseased nearer the heart, more than counter- balance any slight advantage to be gained in this way. However free the new channel may be, it is always inade- quate, in the first instance, to afford the full supply of blood requisite for carrying on the various actions as usual. The limb becomes more or less cold and numb, and continues so for a longer or shorter time, seldom exceeding a few hours after the operation. It then rises in temperature even above that of the •corresponding sound one, and becomes painful; at the same time slight pulsation may return in the aneurism. To prevent this overaction from proving excessive, and inducing mortification, all sources of additional excitement, such as friction with stimulants, hot fomentations, and the like, ought to be carefully avoided. "WQien the stage of reaction subsides, which it does in a day or two, the limb still remains weak and liable to suffer from slight ii-ritation, so that even the pressure of its own weight occasionally causes sloughing. The support of a flannel bandage will there- fore be proper, and, with a similar view, though low diet and even bleeding may be proper previously to the operation, the patient ought not to have his strength reduced to a \ery low ebb by depletion, or very rigorous diet during the cure.