146 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. versa. The wound when first received occasions a numb sort of sensation, but before long becomes acutely painful It bleeds less than an incised wound in the same situation would do. Wlien of any considerable extent, it is apt to cause, immediately on its infliction, more or less mental alarm, despondency, and prostration of strength. This constitutional effect is propor- tioned to the im]3ortance of the injury, the weakness of the patient, and his apprehension of danger. The bad consequences of gun-shot wounds were formerly ascribed to a poisonous agency of the gunpowder ; and upon this belief was founded the practice of scarifying or excising the wounded sui-faces, and dressing them with scalding oils. Pare introduced a milder method, which he was led to, in the' first instance, by necessity, and was afterwards confirmed in by expe- rience and reasoning on the subject. He used merety simple unctuous applications, and with such success, that his example was soon generally followed. The treatment of gun-shot wounds, though so far improved, still continued unnecessarily severe, since the scarification, which was formerly practised to remove the poison, still remained in use, to prevent tension and inflam- mation from the fistulous shape of the wound. John Hunter exploded this system of dilatation, as it was called, by shewing that it did not prevent the effects in question, and was performed soon enough if delayed until they actually appeared. The best application at first is a pledget of oiled lint, placed on the woimd, and covered with cold wet cloths. Should inflammation supervene, free dilatation, including any fascia that has been wounded and lies within reach, with fomentations and poultices, become proper; when the sloughs are detached, pressure, with the usual lotions, must be carefully employed, as there are apt to be extensive sinuses ; and if these have not a sufficiently dependent openmg, it ought to be afforded by the knife. When the ball, or any other foreign matter introduced into the woimd, is not earned through, but remains, it ought to be removed, if this can be done without any very serious cutting or searching; for, though it is no doubt true that such extraneous