GRi\J«JLATION. 49 under wliich regeneration takes place more readily—tliat is, when the parts concerned do not communicate with a breach in the surface of the body. An interstitial process then goes forwards, consisting of the effusion and organization of Ijanph, which freqiiently forms a substitute, nearly or altogether similar to the original texture. The nen'-es, tendons, periosteum, bones, and ligaments, are thus frequently restored, after suffering more or less extensive destruction. Treatment of Ulcers tending to Heal. So long as the granulating process proceeds, as has been de- scribed, it requires no local treatment, except what is necessary to prevent it from being disturbed by external irritation. Great attention to cleanliness ought to be observed with regard to the parts surrounding the sore, which should be frequently washed, and shaved if there are. any hairs upon them. There is no iise or propriety in scrubbing the surface of the ulcer itself, as is frequently done, since the pus affords a natural covering to protect it, and would be sufficient for the purpose, if it were not that the risk of injur}'' from contact with external bodies, and the unseemliness of an ulcer exposed to view, require some artificial covering. Old linen, lint, or chai-pie, may be employed for this purpose; and perhaps the last-mentioned article is the best, as, being more porous, it allows the pus to pass readily througli its interstices. Whatever be the covering employed, it should be moistened with water, and prevented from drying by a piece of oiled silk, or thin gutta percha, laid over it. The ulcer requires to be dressed frequently, in proportion to the quantity of dis- charge. Once in the twenty-four hours is generally sufficient, but twice is often necessary—and sometimes the interval may be extended to two days or more. One granulating surface may unite with another, when they are placed in contact, and retained together. The cure is thus sometimes greatly abridged, and at other times very troublesome adhesions may result, as when the respective surfaces of the fingers are ulcerated from any cause. E