493 SKIN. Diseases of the Fingers arid Toes. The nail of the great toe often occasions much distress, by becoming imbedded at one or both of its edges in the soft parts, instead of lying over and protecting them. This growing in of the nail, as it is termed, depends originally in most cases on the pressure of a tight shoe, or on the projecting corners of the nail having been broken off accidentally, or cut away intentionally, with the erroneous view of preventing them from entering the flesh, since they are much more apt to do so when thus rounded oif, than when left in their natural shape. After the edge of the nail has effected an ulcerated breach, it prevents any step toAvards reparation, by causing irritation, which inflames and thickens the soft parts concerned, so as to make them overlap more and more. Various methods were formerly employed in the treatment of this complaint, which seldom did more than afford temporary palliation; of these may be mentioned, cutting away the overhanging edge of skin, touching the ulcerated sur- face with caustic to destroy its morbid sensibility, interposing a plate of some sort between the edge of the nail and the ulcer, and scraping away the morbid part of the nail so as to make it very thin, in order to diminish the force with which it pressed upon the raw surface. M. Dupuytren devised an easy and effectual mode of treatment, which has superseded all the others. This is to remove all that part of the nail which is connected witl] the ulcer,—an operation that may be effected more readily than might be expected, by thrusting one blade of a pair of strong scissors close under the nail, and dividing it quite up to the root, after which the portion that is to be removed being firmly seized with forceps, is twisted out with great ease. Should the nail be exciting irritation at both edges, it will be best to take away the whole of it, for which purpose the pre- liminary division ought to be made exactly in the middle. The wound should be dressed simj)ly, and heals in a few days, in so far as to acquire a cuticular covering. The nail then gradually extends over the surface it formerly occupied, and,