BONES. 213 attention to the following circumstances generally enable the surgeon to form a pretty accurate opinion as to the result:—1. If the patient possesses a good constitution, and suppuration in the bone has been induced in consequence of inflammation caused by severe external violence, such as the wound of a joint, the prognosis may be favourable. 2. If the patient possesses a bad con- stitution, and the primary inflammation has commenced without any external cause, or one comparatively so slight as a bruise or a strain, which of itself is evidence of his constitution being un- sound, the disease wiU probably be obstinate or incurable. 3. If the patient is an infant or child, and especially if he suffers from suppuration of several bones at the same time, there is a good prospect of an ultimate cure, but not without a very tedious process of recovery. 4. If the suppuration takes place in a bone that naturally possesses a dense texture, but which has been opened out by previous disease, it generally admits of cure more readily than when seated in one originally cancellated. Sir B. Brodie has directed attention to abscesses forming in the cancel- lated texture of bones, but more especially the tibia, and remain- ing latent for an unlimited duration of months or years, the chief S}Tnptoms being enlargement of the bone, with thickening of the soft parts, and deep-seated pain. In such cases he advises the employment of a trephine to evacuate the matter; and this practice has been adopted with advantage. But the operation must not be resorted to without the greatest caution, since chronic periostitis is extremely apt to simulate the condition re- quiring its performance, and has misled practitioners, even of the most extensive experience, to trepan unnecessarily, with effects not less disastrous than even the death of the patient. Whatever be the opinion entertained of the probable result of the case, after the matter has been evacuated, it ought always at first to be treated as if the sore were expected to heal. Free openings should be afforded to the discharge ; stimulating washes, with moderate pressure afterwards applied; and the patient's general health carefully preserved. When the ulcer of the bone resists aU means of cure, it constitutes what is called Caries.