PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 422 pressiou, with a little elevation behind or nearer the vagina. The finger being retained here, the point of the catheter is by its means directed into the bladder. The mouth of the tube may be closed by applying the thumb over it, until a receptacle is pro- vided for the urine,—or a bladder may be tied to it so as to receive the fluid, without any risk of allowing its beiag spilt upon the clothes. If the catheter has a stopcock upon it, this will be managed stiU. more conveniently, but the instrument is thus rendered rather too complicated for its easy introduction. When the uterus is distended, and more especially when its contents descend low in the pelvis during parturition, the urethra is liable to such compression and displacement as frequently induce retention of mine. In such circumstances, it is not always practicable to introduce the common female catheter, and one either flexible, or, if rigid, curved like that for the male urethra, is required. The difliculty is stiU greater when the re- tention depends upon retroversion of the uterus. This displace- ment consists in a turning back of the fundus of the uterus, and its being bent down between the vagina and rectum. It very rarely occurs in the unimpregnated state, though it is said to have been met with in virgins, and is most apt to happen between the third and fourth months of pregnancy, in conse- quence of some sudden motion of the trunk, as in leaping or dancing. A consideration of the relative situation and connec- tion of the OS iiten and urethra will render it obvious that the effect of such a retroversion on the latter must be a great extension of it upwards and forwards ; withdrawing the orifice from its usual situation ; impeding the discharge of the lu-ine, and rendering the introduction of a catheter extremely difificult. The bladder becoming distended, reacts on the primary disease, and opposes the replacement of the uterus, whence the first object in the treatment is to draw off its contents. This may sometimes be done by means of a flexible or cur\'-ed sUver catheter ; but it has happened repeatedly that such instruments could not be introduced, and the patient either died from extra- ^ vasation of urine, or was saved by puncture of the bladder above