270 PKINCIPLES OF SUEGEKY. apt to proceed from expansion of the soft or vascular substance concerned, and requires the pressure of carefully-applied bandages. Rupture and Strains of Muscles by their own Action.—The complete rupture of a muscle by the overaction of its own con- tractile power is an extremely rare occurrence. Instances of it have, however, been observed in the recti muscles of the abdo- men and rectus femoris. The symptoms are sudden inability to perform the accustomed motions, and a vacuity perceptible on external examination of the part affected. The treatment consists in approximating the ruptured extremities as much as possible by the position of the patient, and by bandaging. When the parts become consolidated, the usual power is regained. Partial_rupture of muscles from violent exertion is far from being imcommon. The situation in which it occurs most fre- quently is the calf of the leg, where the soleiis is apt to have some of its fibres torn during extension of the ankle-joint. This is more apt to happen from an inadvertent than a voluntarily violent exertion, and generally occurs without the patient being aware of making any effort. The symptoms are a sudden sensa- tion similar to that which would be caused by a blow on the injured part, succeeded by severe pain, and inability of using not only the muscle injured, but also those associated with it in action, together with swelling and ecchymosis of the limb. The treatment consists in maintaining perfect rest, using warm fomentations while the pain continues, and then applying moderate pressure by means of a bandage, together with lotions or liniments, such as the solution of acetate of lead with opium, or the tincture of soap and opium. The cure is more or less tedious according to the extent of the injury, and reqmres from a few days to as many months for its completion. Strains without rupture are not unfrequently occasioned by violent muscular action. The patient suffers severe pain at the injured part, and is unable to perform almost any motion with the affected muscles. In a day or two the pain subsides; but weeks often elapse before the original strength is regained. This accident is most apt to happen in the loins, where the long