PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 128 The ligature separated on the fourteenth day, and everything seemed to be going on favourably, when a week afterwards, bleeding commenced from the wound, and recurred from time to time, until the patient's strength was completely exhausted, wMch happened on the twenty-sixth day after the operation. G-raefe tied the artery (1822) with a similar result. The ligature separated, and the patient seemed to be safe, but di?d at the end of two months from hemorrhage. It thus appears, that when a ligature is applied so very near the heart, the danger of bleeding continues longer than in other situations, owing probably to the great force of the blood which issues directly from the heart tending to break through the weak and recently-formed obstruc- tion. Perhaps the danger might be diminished by weakening the action of the patient's system by depletion and abstinence for some time after the ligature is detached. The operation, though important and dangerous, is not very difficult. Two incisions should be made of nearly equal length, which may be about two inches—one upwards from the sternum along the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid, and the other trans- versely, from the same point across the sternal attachment of this muscle. The flap of skin thus formed being reflected, the sternal attachments of the sterno-mastoid, stemo-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, must be divided to a sufficient extent for bringing into view the sheath of the vessels, which ought to be opened as if for the ligature of the carotid. This vessel having been exposed, if traced down, will lead to the inominata, round which the needle should be passed very carefully, in order to avoid the pleura and great venous trunk. The Temporal artery, from its exposed situation, is liable to be wounded. I have twice met with a small circumscribed aneurism of this vessel originating from external violence with- out the infliction of a wound. In such a case, the best mode of procedure is to make an incision through the skin, and dissect or puU out the sac completely, so as to leave merely the orifices of the vessel, which may then be tied as usual. Hemorrhage from wounds, whether intentionally or accidentally inflicted may in