411 PELVIS. since there is then less tendency to evacuation, while the capa- city of retention affords the best evidence of the organ being sufficiently free from irritability to warrant the operation. Chlo- roform should not be administered, since pain is a sure sign of I some error in the procedure, and therefore if prevented from/ being manifested, can no longer act as a useful beacon to the ^ operator. The patient should be placed on his back, with the pelvis raised by a firm pillow, so as to let the stone lie, not at the neck, but in the posterior fundus of the bladder. In search- ing for the concretion or its fragments, the instrument should not be moved about at random with expanded jaws, but be carefully conveyed to the side of the body which it is desired to seize, and then, ha\dng one blade elevated, while the other remains in its place, be fauiy turned round and closed upon the stone. It is impossible to explain any more in this than other operations, all the minutiae of manipulation which are requisite for its suc- cessful performance. Practical experience, and familiarity with the instruments employed, are essential for a perfect execution of the process, which is one of those that may be performed with advantage on the dead subject. There is no operation of surgery which has excited so much attention, and been practised in so many different ways, as Litho- tomy. A prejudice, that it was unsafe to cut the neck of the bladder, for many centuries paralysed all exertions in improving the operation, which, in accordance with this misleading prin- cix-)le, was performed by making an incision in the perineum, and then nominally dUating, but really tearing, the orifice of the bladder sufficiently to allow the stone to be extracted. Such a procedure being tedious, pamful, and dangerous, was justly dreaded both by patients and surgeons, the latter of whom wil- lingly resigned it to irregular practitioners of rupture curuig, and cutting for the stone, who in those days travelled the countiy in search of employment. The mode of performing lithotomy was indeed taught in the schools, and ingenious men contrived various modifications of the apparatus; but no real improvement was effected until near the end of the seventeenth century, when