112 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. The great argument in favour of tins method is its freedom from the danger of hemorrhage which attends tying the vessel. But it must be admitted, that while exempt from this objection, pressure is exposed to others, especially its risk of causing engorgement, inflammation, and mortification of the limb, together with the greater difficulty which may attend the ligature, from condensation of the textures, in the event of its subsequently proving necessary. It is only the femoral artery which can be subjected to the method in question ; and if this vessel be tied with proper care, there appears to be little or no danger from the operation, I have performed it thirty-three times without any bad consequences. On the whole, it would seem that the liga- ture is the quickest, easiest, most certain, and least painful means of remedy, while compression affords a useful substitute when circumstances prevent the operation from being performed with due attention to the circumstances requisite for its safety. The advantages of Himter's operation were so great and mani- fest in the situations for which it was proposed, that the old pro- cedure being thrown completely into the shade, the new one came to be regarded as preferable for the treatment of all aneurisms except those of recent traumatic origin. But there seems reason to think that a serious error was committed in this general adoption of one method to the exclusion of the other, since the grounds of preference are not the same in all situations, and are indeed in some of them completely reversed, as when the axillary artery is the seat of aneurism. There is here every facility for performing the old operation, and great difficulty, as well as danger, in carrying the Hunterian method into effect. But while this cannot be denied, it has been maintained that the difficulty of execution is greatly counterbalanced by the safety derived from tying the artery at a sound part, instead of doing so at the seat of rupture. Indeed, it has generally been beUeved that the whole extent of vessel comprehended by the aneurismal sac should be regarded as unfit for bearing a ligature, although an unprejudiced view of the subject could hardly have failed to shew that there was no sufficient foundation for this opinion.