PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 286 loose bodies, appearing to consist merely of indurated lympli. They are of a yellow or brownish colour, tough consistence, and variable size, from that of a millet-seed to that of a field bean. It is obviously necessary that, in such cases, the puncture must be large enough to let the bodies escape, after which the treat- ment ought to be conducted on the principles already explained. The lymph wliich is effused from the inner surface of the bursa sometimes becomes organized in the form of thick bands stretch- ing across the cavity. In such cases, after the means for pro- ducing absorption have been tried and failed, the disease must be removed by the knife. Bursse, whether in a sound state or one of chronic disease, are subject to acute inflammation in consequence of local irritation, especially that of bruises. The symptoms are severe pain, aggra- vated by pressure or motion, bright redness of the superjacent skin, and more or less swelling. The inflammation usually terminates either in resolution or effusion of lymph or serum, but sometimes goes on to suppuration. The surrounding cellular substance then also becomes inflamed, and a diffused abscess is the result. Leeches, warm fomentations, and lotions of acetate of lead with opium, are the best means for subduing the inflam- matory action, but when matter is formed, a free incision should be made without delay. After the suppuration of a bursa a troublesome sinus may remain, and harass the patient by fre- quent exacerbation of the symptoms. Free dilatation is for the most part sufficient in such cases ; but should it not prove to be so, the surface of the cavity must be touched with caustic. The particular bursse, which most frequently suffer the different diseased conditions that have been described, are those of the flexor tendons of the fingers, and those seated over the olecranon, patella, and ball of the great toe. In the first of these situations, the bursal sheaths, which accompany the flexor ten- dons of the fingers from the fore-arm into the hand, are liable to thickening of their texture, with distension, from effusion of fluid and the formation of moveable bodies, apparently composed of indurated lymph; the wrist and palm of the hand become