PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 10 same effect. Habit, or the continued exposure to an irritation, lessens its effect. The differences observed in constitutional irritability are very strildng and important. Sometimes they seem to depend on original or congenital peculiarities of the system; but very freqiiently proceed from the injuiious effect of deviations from propriety in diet or exercise. They are also often connected with mental irritation, which has a powerful influence over the irritability of the body. In these different states of the system, the same local irritation produces the most opposite effects ; and while one individual may have his limb lacerated and the bone shattered without suffering so much inflammation as to occasion symptomatic fever, another dies from the intense action excited by the prick of a pinj [|The common expressions of a good and bad constitution are nearly equivalent to the possession of little or much tendency to suffer irritation from causes of disturbance; and the difference in tliis respect, as has been already obsei-ved, may either depend upon congenital peculiarity, or be acquired through circumstances connected with the mode of life. A most important fact in relation to the effect of irritation is, that it generally proves inconsiderable when another wliich had been previously in existence, and exciting disturbance, is re- moved by its means. The success of operations frequently depends on this principle, as when amputation is performed on account of a diseased joint, which has kept up excitement for a considerable time without too greatly reducing the patient's strength. The indirect causes of irritation, or those which act through the medium of the system, constitute a difficult, but veiy inte- resting and highly necessary subject of study. .One of the most remarkable differences between animals and vegetables is the mutual dependence of the component parts of the former. Though each part is induced to act by particular stimuli, and produces peculiar effects, the whole are so connected togetlier that one can hardly be affected without causing more or less disturbance of others. Sometimes the whole system suffers, and