PKTNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 160 ought to be entirely removed, to prevent its slackened band from exerting such pressure on the veins as may cause them to bleed, and induce the surgeon to tie them instead of arteries. The earlier modes of amputation rendered union by the first intention impracticable ; and when the operation had been so far improved as to retain the soft paits sufficiently long to meet over the bone, the old system of dressing still continued in use, and the cavity of the stimip was stuffed with lint, as all wounds were in those days healed by the gi-anulating process. Mr. Alanson had the merit of exploding this practice, and introducing light superficial dressings in its stead, which gi-eatly shortened the cure; and though surgeons on the Continent still interpose dressings between the edges of the stump, union by the first intention is always sought for in this coimtry. Stiches, if necessary, ought to be employed to keep the lips of the woimd nearly in theii- proper position; and when the bleeding has ceased, strij)s of adhesive plaster may be used to retain them in accurate contact. The bad consequ.ences of the operation are chiefly hemoiThage, sero-purulent effusion into other parts of the body, especially the cavity of the thorax, suppuration of the stump, and exfoliation of the bone. Hemorrhage may appear immediately after the operation, either from arteries which have not been tied, o^ving to their not shewing themselves by bleeding during the state of collapse suc- ceeding the removal of a limb, or from the veins being com- pressed by too tight a bandage. In the former case, it is necessary to apply such additional ligatures as may be reqtiisite ; in the latter, it is sufficient to slacken the bandage. Hemorrhage sometimes commences a few hours after the stump is dressed ; and then depends either upon a general oozing from the cut sur- face, consequent upon the reaction of the system, or upon some imperfection in the ligature of the vessels, which allows the blood to escape when impelled with more force than it was while the patient remained weak and faint. Cold lotions and pressure will restrain it, if proceeding from the first of these soui'ces ; but additional ligatures will be required, if, resisting such means, it