PELVIS. 383 establishes the thickening and induration, and whatever tends to produce this condition of the membrane -will expose to the risk of stricture. Severe gonorrhoeas, in which the inflammation spreads back along the urethra,—irritating injections, allowed to enter the passage too far,—frequent indulgence in venery,—stone in the bladder or other parts of the urinary organs,—and habitual addiction to a diet that stimulates the parts concerned, may thus be regarded as causes of stricture. Besides this true organic stricture, the urethra is liable to a temporaiy constriction, which has usually been attributed to spasmodic contraction of the surrounding muscles, although con- gestion of the vessels may probably have a considerable share in producing the effect. Independently of the perineal muscles, however, there can be no doubt that the urethra, both in health and disease, possesses a contractile power, which, xmder the influence of irritating circunistances, may prove excessive, so as either to produce the symptoms of stricture, or to aggravate those proceeding from a permanent constriction. The symptoms of stricture are—1. Difficulty in making water, owing to the resistance which is opposed to its escape by the narrow part or parts of the canal. The bladder, therefore, is slowly emptied; and its muscular coat becomes greatly thick- ened, so as to present an appearance similar to that of the ventricles of the heart on their inner surface. 2. Small size of the stream, which is usually spiral, forked, or dribbling. 3. Pain, generally experienced during micturition, and seldom afterwards. 4. Frequent desire to evacuate the urine, which is most remark- able during the night, from the circumstance of persons in health not requiring to do so between the time of lying down and getting up. The patient also often complains of pain in coitu,—of a thin gleety discharge from the urethra,—of swelling and pain of one or both testicles,—of uneasiness about the loins and limbs, and of muscular weakness of the latter. He frequently sufiers feverish attacks of short duration, but considerable intensity, resembling in all respects the fits of an ague. It is observed that the severity of all these symptoms increases when the