Ill BLOOD-VESSELS. from entering the aneurism, but merely to cause such stagnation of its current as may induce coagulation, it was proposed by M. Brasdor of Paris to obliterate the vessel lieyoncl the tumour, when circumstances prevented the operation from being performed be- tween it and the heart. Some unsuccessful attempts have been made on this principle ; but Mr. Wardrop has recorded several instances of its alleged more fortunate application. It is evident the operation cannot be performed with advantage, if a branch of any considerable size comes off between the aneurism and ligature, as this would allow the current of blood to continue; it could not be of any use in cases where, the sac being small and regularly dilated, the contents remain fluid ; and the only occasions where it promises any benefit, are those in which coagulation is already far advanced. But here the passage through the vessel beyond the tumour must be obstriicted nearly, if not altogether, as much as it can be by the ligature ; so that there, consec[uently, does not seem to be much probability of this operation being ever exten- sively introdiiced into practice. . Witliin the last quarter of a century, various attempts and proposals have been made to facilitate the treatment of aneurism, by inducing coagulation through other means than that of liga- ture. Of these may be mentioned galvanic acupuncture, injection of astringents, such as the perchloride of iron, and pressure on the artery concerned. The two first of these have so little practical evidence in their favour, that they need not be more particularly considered at present; but compression of the vessels deserves more attention. More than fifty years ago, some cases of poplit- eal aneurism were remedied on this principle in Paris, but at the expense of so much time and suffering as to deter from its general adoption. It now appears, however, chiefly through the exertions of Dr. Bellingham, and other surgeons of Dublin, that with a well-constructed and carefully regulated apparatus, the object may be frequently attained with a tolerable amount of pain and delay. On some occasions, a few hours have been found sufficient for the purpose ; but in general a period of from two to four weeks is requisite.