PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 430 I quarter of an ounce should be thrown in at once, and the penis should be compressed between the finger and thumb, to prevent the fluid from passing too far back. The injection may be repeated three or four times a day, unless it occasions a renewal of the inflammatory symptoms, when it must be immediately abandoned. If, notwithstanding these means, the running con- tinues several weeks, a full-sized bougie may be passed two or three times, as the initation thus caused, though its first effect is to render the matter discharged more thick and copious, often puts a sudden stop to it. The tincture of cantharides in the dose of twenty or thirty drops three times a day, sulphate of ziac, given internally in the form of pHl, and sea-bathing, are the remaining remedies usually had recourse to when the gleet proves obstinate. The first gonorrhoea is generally more severe than those that happen subsequently. In these the inflam- matory symptoms are often from the commencement so mild that the means proper for arresting the discharge may be used without delay. Of the bad consequences or attendants of gonorrhoea, one of the most frequent is chordee or painful erection of the penis. The only effectual remedy of it is to cure the disease ; but before this is accomplished, the patient's sufferings may be alleviated by opiate injections into the rectum,—the introduction of opiate suppositories within the sphincter ani,—or pUls of camphor with hyoscyamus taken occasionally. If the spongy or cavernous substance of the penis remains hard after the inflammation has subsided, and causes pain, together with distortion of the member when it is erected, the part affected may be rubbed with cam- phorated mercurial ointment, to promote absorption of the con- densing lymph that is effused. Inflamed absorbents are met with chiefly on the dorsal surface of the penis, and in persons of a very irritable constitution. They form hard painful cords, over which the skin is red. The best application that can be made to them is a warm solution of acetate of lead and opium. In- flammation of the inguinal glands, or Bubo, does not occur nearly' so frequently in consequence of the irritation of gonon'hcea, as of