145 EXTERNAL INJURIES. or lacerated ; aud sometimes of a dark coloiu', owing to effusion of blood into the cellular substance. When the contixsion is considerable, it renders the "wound incapable of uniting by the first intention, and excites inflanmiation, which either ter- minates in mortification or leads to suppuration, according to the extent of the injury aud the irritability of the patient. It was formerly the custom to cut away the contused and lacerated edges, to supersede the more tedious process of sloughing ; but nature is now allowed to determine what portion is incapable of recovery. All foreign matters ought to be carefully removed from the woimd, and its edges should then be placed as nearly as possible in contact. If there is no great degree of contusion, stitches may be employed for this purpose; but, generally speaking, it is better to abstain from them ; and if they are used, any appearance of inflammation should be the signal for then- removal. Cold applications are proper in the first instance, and ought to be continued until the wound either unites or in- flames. In the latter case, warm fomentations and poultices are required; but they must be laid aside as soon as the sloughs have separated, and the granulating action is established. If continued longer than this, they induce relaxation of the parts concerned, already weakened by the injury, render the granula- tions large and flabby, and prevent the sores from contracting. The resulting ulcer always tends to weakness of action, and therefore, instead of these enfeebling applications, requires lotions with pressure. Gun-shot wounds are solutions of continuity effected through the agency of substances impelled by fire-arms. They are gene- rally punctured as to their form, and always contused as to their surface. They are consequently apt to occasion extensive in- flammation, and sloughing of the parts more immediately con- cerned. The orifice by which a ball enters is small, round, depressed, and livid ; that by wliich it escapes, larger, more elongated, and everted at its edges. These appearances vary with the velocity of the ball, the entrance being most, and the exit least distinctly characterised when it is greatest, and vice L