432 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. round the neck of the glans, and by the side of the frojnum ; but they may be seated on any or every part of the surface of the glans and prepuce. These growths vary extremely, both in size and number, being sometimes hardly percex^tible, and at others constituting large tumoiirs. . They have generally narrow necks, and irregular, rough bodies. They are painful and unseemly, apt to bleed when injured, and, if large, attended with a very fcetid discharge. If small, their absorption may be readily induced by a slight application of aromatic vinegar once every two or three days. Various other fluids, powders, and oint- ments, have been employed for tliis purpose; but the one that has been mentioned seems to be, on the whole, the best. When the warts are large, they shordd be cut away with scissors close to the sound skin, and even when but of small size, they are removed in this way more quickly as well as effectually. Sores on the Penis. The penis, like every other part of the body, is Hable to become the seat of ulceration; and its pendulous position, mobility, and proneness to erection, much oppose the healing process. With few exceptions, the sores in this situation result from venereal intercourse, being either simply abrasions or lacerations, or the consequence of the irritation of poisonous matter applied to the organ. The former are usually called ex- coriations, and the latter chancres. The poison gives rise to the ulcer by forming, in the first instance, a small abscess or pustule, which, opening in a few days, leaves a breach in the surface. If an excoriation, at the time of its production, is exposed to the influence of irritating matter, it then exhibits the same cha- racters as if of poisonous origin. The sores of both kinds are generally seated on the lining membrane of the prepuce, near its reflection on the glans, at its orifice, and at the sides of the froenum; being more rarely found on the glans itself, or the body of the penis. Wlien resulting from poison, they are generally small, round, or oval, and excavated, having the base as well as the margin condensed by an interstitial effusion of