DISEASED NUTRITIOlf. 81 in tlieir disposition. If tlie disease is seated in a distinct organ, the wliole of it ought always to be removed, however small the part which is actually affected may be; and when the tissue concerned is not in this way circumscribed, the knife should be carried as wide as possible from the tumour. Medullary Sarcoma. The title of Cerebriform is perhaps more correct than that of Medullary, to designate the species of sarcoma wliich is now to be considered ; but as the general acceptation of the latter term has fully sanctioned its use, there would be no advantage in attempting a change. The medullary growth bears a close resemblance to the sub- stance of brain, not only in appearance, but also in chemical composition. When divided, it seems as if composed of irregular masses, enclosed, and separated from each other more or less completely by thin membranous septa, which become more obvious after the soft pulpy mass is removed by maceration, or the action of allialies. The consistence of the tumour, though in general pretty nearly that of the brain, is sometimes much denser; at other times more approacliing fluidity than the natu- ral state of this tissue. Its colour, also, is subject to much variety, from almost purejwhite to the darkest red,—the differ- ence in this respect seeming to depend on the quantity of blood which circulates through the growth, or is effused into its inter- stices. The proportion of blood is sometimes so great, that the tumour, when divided, resembles a coagulum; but more fre- quently it exhibits merely spots or blotches, irregularly inter- spersed through the substance of the mass. Occasionally, but not frequently, this morbid growth appears in the fonn of a cyst, the parietes of which, though of little thickness, are composed of the cerebriform structure, while the cavity is occupied by clear serous fluid, usually of a greenish colour. It is then apt to be mistaken for distention of a bursa or an abscess ; especially as the most common seat of the disease in this form is the upper and inner part of the thigh. G