PKINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 348 freely, so as if possible to subdue the incipieut peritonitis. Opium and calomel ought at the same time to be administered in doses proportioned to the urgency of the circumstances. In consequence, probably, of the pressure which has been sustained by the gut while strangulated, and which there is reason to be- lieve generally occasions a certain degree of constriction in the canal for a considerable length of time subsequent to reduction, the patient is frequently annoyed for days or weeks with occa- sional symptoms of chronic inflammation, for which gentle aperients, administered by the mouth and rectum, leeching, and the counter-irritation of blisters, are the best means of counter- action. It is not prudent to get out of bed, or, at all events, to quit the horizontal posture, until the wound is so far healed as to permit the wearing of an efficient truss, which can hardly ever afterwards be dispensed with. When sloughing of the contents of the hernia takes place, a discharge of the intestinal matters always ensues for a time through the opening thus established in the gut. The cavity of the sac gradually diminishes, its orifice contracts, the integuments surrounding it become callous, and a preternatural anus is formed. If only a part of the circumference of the intestine has been protruded, the remaining portion allows some of the con- tents of the canal to descend naturally, and by degrees more of them, until little and at last none are voided in the groin, the opening of which closes, and then the patient obtains a complete cure. This process of reparation is accomplished with difficulty, in proportion to the extent of gut that has been destroyed; and when its whole circumference has sloughed, a complete loop of the intestine having been strangulated, it can hardly be effected without some artificial assistance. In this case the two con- tiguous walls of the gut constitute a septum which directs the flow of matters passing through the canal so as to make them issue at the preternatural orifice ; and sometimes the upper part of the tube becoming inverted, protrudes through it, so as to form a tumour of various size in the groin. Different methods have been employed for dividing the septum, and thus promot-