PELVIS. 385 surprising when its disadvantages are considered. The mode of application •usually practised was to insert a bit of lunar caustic, or potass, into the extremity of a wax bougie, and fix it in its place by pressing down the edges of the excavation made for its reception. The bougie was then passed quickly down to the stricture, the seat of which had been previously ascertained, and allowed to remain pressed against the obstruction for a few seconds, so as to let the escharotic effect be produced. The operation being repeated as frequently as the irritation induced by it permitted, at length enabled a full-sized instrument to pass. It may be readily imagined that the process of cure thus con- ducted was necessarily very tedious, painful, and dangerous. The successive applications of the caustic required intervals of several days, and the cure was seldom completed without very many operations of this kind; sometimes a hundred, or more. The irritation produced by the caustic not only excited excessive pain, but subjected the patient to the risk of complete retention of urine, swelled testicle, and other bad consequences; and if the caustic happened to drop out of the bougie, violent inflam- mation, with various injurious effects on the neighbouring parts, abscess of the perineum, etc., were apt to be induced. Modern improvements in the apparatus for applying the caustic have in some measure obviated these objections. Instead of being carried down to the stricture by the simple but insecure means above mentioned, it has been introduced into the strictured por- tion of the canal more accurately, safely, and efficiently, by various instruments, constriicted on the following principle :— A catheter, straight or curved, of full size, has a small perfora- tion in its roimd extremity, to which a wire is fitted, so that when pressed at the handle of the instrument, it may be caused to project. This wire has a slit a little way from the point for receiving the caustic, and when thrust out at the opening of the catheter, after it has been pushed down to the seat of the stricture, will, if successfully managed, apply the escharotic substance to the surface of the morbidly contracted part of the canal. But although the application may thus be rendered more secure from 2 c