535 MOUTH. time raising it from its bed. The forceps, in the hand of one not practised in their use, are apt to detach the crown of the tooth from its fangs, and must therefore be employed with caution. After the process of decay has proceeded so far that the roots of the tooth alone are left, the patient is relieved from toothache, but exposed to other symptoms of a troublesome kind, in conse- quence of the irritation caused by the stumps, as they are called. These useless remnants become loosened in their connection with the jaw, and are apt to occasion similar effects to those which would proceed from foreign bodies in the same situation. In- flammation of the gum, leading to abscess (gum-boil or parulis), suppuration of the cheek, followed by fistulous ulcers opening externally, ulceration or purulent discharge of the nasal cavities, sore throat, and disorder of the digestive organs, are the most common of these ; and th^ir mere mention will be sufficient to shew the importance of removing the stumps of decayed teeth. This is done by means of an instrument named a punch, which should be forcibly pushed into the socket close to the stump, in a pei-pendicular direction, and then, by moving the handle to one side, made to loosen and elevate it. Hemorrhage occasionally occurs to a troublesome or even alarming extent after the extraction of teeth or stumps. The best application is dry lint forcibly pressed into the cavity, which proves much more effectual than the use of caustic or the actual cautery. Abscess of fhe Antrum. The cavity of the maxillary bone is liable to become the seat of abscess in consequence of the lining membrane talcing on a suppurative action. The fluid escapes partially into the nasal cavity when the head is laid in the horizontal posture, but the outlet thus afforded is not sufficiently free to allow the parts to return to their healthy state. The bone is gradually expanded, so as to elevate the cheek and depress the palate; dull aching pains are felt at uncertain times throughout the face and head; and the superjacent integuments are usually thick and red. A dependent opening into the cavity may be easily formed by