EXTERNAL INJUEIES. 153 the former title being reserved to denote those which are distin- guished by the potency of their action. The only poisons which present subject for surgical consideration are afforded by the animal kingdom, and may be divided into — 1. Those wlaich exist natiu-aUy in the animals that yield them ; 2. Those which are the results of diseased action ; and 3, Those which depend on changes after death. Natural animal poisons are afforded chiefly by the two classes of Insects and Serpents. In this and other temperate climates, the effects of those of the former are hardly more than local, consisting of pain, swelling, and redness of the part injured. The treatment, when any is judged necessary, shordd also be local; and the solution of muriate of morphia, or that of acetate of lead with opium, aqua ammonim, and other preparations of ammonia, afford most relief There is considerable variety in the effect of these poisons, according to the irritability of the individual on whom they operate ; and habit has a very remark- able influence in lessening it. The poison of serpents produces more serious consequences, which vary according to the species which affords it. The most deadly sort occasions intense local pain, Speedily followed by swelling of the limb, rapidly extending, and attended with mottled livid discoloration of the skin. The patient, almost immediately upon being bitten, feels sick, weak, and confused. • He appears as if intoxicated, vomits, becomes quite insensible, and dies within a few hours, or it may even be minutes, after sustaining the injury. The viper, which is the only poisonous serpent in this country, hardly ever produces fatal effects ; but the pain and swelling caused by its bite are often extremely distressing. The treatment must be both local and general. The former consists in opposing the entrance of the poison into the cii'culation; the latter in counteracting its depressing effect on the vital powers. In accomplishing the first of these objects, the means of most use are—1. Eemoving the poison from the body, either by cutting away the part, or destroying it with caustics or