526 PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. This last-mentioned mode is on many accounts the one that ought to be preferred, and particularly because it enables the ope- rator to regulate the shape of the cut surfaces more accurately than any other. The margins of the fissure present a convex outline, which, if allowed to remain, would cause the edges, when joined, to form an unseemly angle in the lip at their point of meeting. The respective surfaces should therefore be made straight, or rather slightly concave, so that when brought together they may give the lip its natural fulness, and the lip should be very freely separated from the gum on both sides of the fissure. The two raw surfaces are next united by means of silver sutures, of which three are generally required. They may be taken out on the fourth day after the operation, but the cheeks should be supported for a week or even longer by a strap of adhesive plaster placed across the face. In cases where there are two fissures, the intermediate portion of skin would not reach the margin of the lip, so that both of its edges should be made raw at the same time ; three sutures being then introduced, one at the margin of the lip, one near the nose, and one in the middle passing through the apex of the triangular piece. Fissure of the soft palate may be united in favourable cases by an operation similar to that for the hare-lip, but which is un- certain of execution, owiag to the situation of the parts, their mobility, and the involuntary efforts of the patient. It would be impracticable, except in adults possessed of considerable for- titude, and in cases where the state of the parts is favourable to union, the difficulty of course increasing with the width of the breach. The edges may be made raw by means of either the scissors or the knife, the latter of which is the most convenient. Silver sutures must be introduced, and for this purpose various instruments and modes of procedure have been contrived. The best means on the whole appears to be the simple curved surgi- cal needle with a fixed handle, which should be made to perforate the palate from without inwards—first on one side and then on the other—so as to convey a thread through each, and the two