^ BLOOD-VESSELS. 121 vessel at this part, and might, through want of caution, be included in the ligature. The Common Iliac can require to be tied only on account of wounds or aneurisms extending up the external iliac. Wounds of the common iliac, from balls or thrusts of sharp-pointed weapons, gi-anting that they were not attended with any other fatal injury, would very seldom afford the time and opportunity necessary for applying a Ligature, owing to their profuse hemor- rhage ; and where the aneurismal sac extends up into the pelvis, it generally adheres so intimately to the peritoneum as must render the ligature of the common iliac, without injuring this membrane, all but impossible. Dr. Mott of New York, never- theless, succeeded in tying the vessel successfully. The aneurism reached far into the pelvis, but he managed to separate the peritoneum from its sac, so as to expose the artery, and pass a ligature round it. He made an incision about six inches long, extending liigher up than the one requisite for tying the internal iliac artery, and found great assistance from thin wooden spatu- las, which were employed to hold aside the peritoneum with the intestines. The aorta is occasionally found, on dissection of dead bodies, to be very narrow, or altogether impervious, either in conse- quence of original malformation, or owing to the complete ■spontaneous coagulation of large aneurisms in its course. In these cases the blood seems to be conveyed to the parts below the obstruction, chiefly by means of the anastomoses between the lumbar arteries, and those of the intestines. If, therefore, the aorta could be tied without the infliction of a mortal wound, there is reason to believe that a cure might thus be accomplished in aneurisms ascending too high for being remedied by ligature of the iliac. In dogs and other animals having long and thin loins, it is not difficult to tie the arteiy, by making a longitu- dinal incision between the lumbar and abdominal muscles, and turning aside the peritoneum. In the human subject, there is not room enough for proceeding in this way, and the only prac- ticable method seems to be that first adopted by Sir A. Cooper,