PllINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 218 depends very much upon its situation. Generally wMle the growtli is enlarging, pain and annoyance are experienced from obstructed function of the neighbouring parts; but when it ceases to increase and becomes dense, which it usually does sooner or later, the irritation of its presence becoming habitual, is no longer troublesome. The treatment, therefore, seldom requires to be active; and nothing more is usually requisite than to protect the limb, or part affected, from the irritation of motion or pressure, so long as the exostosis is enlarging. Should it prove permanently or seriously troublesome, excision affords easy and effectual means of relief. For this purpose many ingenious contrivances have been recommended, but nothing answers so well as the cutting-pliers. It has been thought necessary to perform amputation of the great toe on account of the exostoses which are apt to grow at the side or extremity of the nail; but this proceeding is equally severe and unnecessarj'-, as excision of the tumour may be easily effected, and is not fol- lowed by relapse. The reason of this appears to be that the ossifying process proceeds not from the root but from the surface of the growth—which is covered by a layer of fibro-cartilage or cartilaginous substance, and in some situations with the addition of an investing bag, like the synovial membrane. This condition greatly facilitates removal, by insulating the exostosis from sur- rounding paiis, and affording access to its point of attachment. It also occasionally embarrasses the diagnosis by becoming the seat of serous effusion. The hollow exostosis depends on the expansive effect of fluid or solid formations within the bone ; and the osseous substance may be regarded as devoid of any morbid disposition, so that if the contents could be removed it would contract to its ordinary dimensions. The same observations apply to the spicular or foliated exostosis, which is always found connected with some source of irritation, and is to be looked upon rather as a conse- quence than a part of the disease.