368 PRINCIPLES or SURGERY. the anus. They are prevented from escaping by their size, or shape, or by both of these circumstances. Concretions of indi- gestible matters, swallowed along with the food, or indurated masses of the ordinary feculent substance, may obstruct the gut. Fisli-bones and other hard bodies of a spicular form, after passing through the whole length of the intestines, are sometimes detained by the sphincter ani. Pieces of wood, glass, earthenware, and other matters, have been accidentally lodged in the rectum, by patients endeavouring to procure evacuation of their bowels, and still more rude articles have been forced into it in consequence of falls on the breech. The symptoms of dourse vary with the bulk and figure of the foreign body. If it merely obstructs the passage, the patient suffers only from constipation, together with more than usual uneasiness and sensation of weight in the region of the rectum ; and if the coats of the gut are punctured or lacerated, the additional symptoms of bloody mucus, or blood dis- charged by stool, and pain more or less acute, will indicate the nature of the case. But the only method of acquiring certain information as to the state of matters is to make an examination with the finger, and this ought always to be done -when there is any reason to suspect the existence of a local cause of irritation or obstruction in the rectum. For effecting the removal of foreign bodies from the rectum, different means must be employed, according to the circumstances of the case. Feculent masses should be broken down with a scoop, or spoon, and extracted by the same means. Hard, pointed substances are best withdrawn by straight or slightly-curved forceps, guided with the finger, so as first to dislodge, and then extract them. If they cannot be got out entire, another pair of forceps should be employed to break them into fragments, while the principal portion is held steady with those first introduced. When the dif&culty proves extreme, it will be much better to make a free division of the integuments and sphincter, than sub- ject the intestine to the risk of injury from violent efforts at extraction.