21 INFLAMMATION. bleeding is to be encouraged by fomentations or a poultice, unless it proves excessive, as sometimes happens, particularly in children, when a small piece of lint ©ught to "be pressed firmly on the wound. If this means should fail, which it seldom does, the nitrate of silver may be applied, or the wound may be trans- fixed by a small needle or pia, and tied with a thread. The quantity of blood obtained by cupping depends greatly on the part which is chosen for the purpose. The skin should be well fomented before the operation, and carefully protected from the influence of cold during its performance. The glasses should have wide mouths, and be frequently emptied, to prevent the blood from coagulating over the wounds, which opposes its flow, unless they be made of such a shape as to prevent this. The most convenient form, especially to an operator not practised in the management of ordinary cup-shaped vessels, wliich require to be frequently emptied and reapplied, is that of a distended leech—^the glass being about six inches long and two inches wide at the mouth. In using this apparatus a piece of paper mois- tened with spirits is introduced into it and kindled—the mouth is then applied over the wounds which have been made by the scarificator-—and, the bulging part of the vessel being placed in a dependent position, the blood continues to flow into it without coagulating upon the orifices, until a sufficient quantity is obtained. Purgatives.—These are substances that, when introduced into the intestinal canal, produce more or less irritation : the effect of which is a greater secretion from the mucous membrane, and in- creased contraction of the muscular fibres. In consequence of this double operation, the dejections are more frequent and copious than usual; and the patient is not only relieved in the way of metastasis, that is, from having an action excited at a distance from the diseased one, but also has those secretions restored, the suppression of which is frequently the indirect cause of inflammation. Many different purgatives are employed in medicine; but the most useful in subduing inflammation are calomel, colocynth,