441 GENITAL ORGANS. more or less beyond the ring thus formed, so that the Seat of the stricture is not exactly behind the neck of the- glans, but separ- ated from it by a circular swelling caused by distension of the protruded internal membrane. A penis suffering from paraphy- mosis thus presents anteriorly the point of the glans in a tumid state,—then a circular swelling of mucous membrane,—next a deep sulcus, at the bottom of which is seated the stricture, formed by the narrow orifice of the prepuce,—and, lastly, the integuments of the penis more or less swollen. Paraphymosis occurs at all ages, but most frequently in boys. It is readily recognised by the appearances which have been described, and the symptoms it occasions by impeding the circulation. These are, in addition to the swelling, pain, and other indications of inflammation, which, in circumstances favourable to intensity of action, may terminate in sloughing, but more frequently proves its own cure, by induc- ing tdceration at the seat of stricture. The treatment obviously requires the use of means proper for effecting reduction of the strictured glans, and the manipulation for this purpose should be conducted on the same principles as those of the taxis for hernia. The surgeon having anointed the glans with oil, embraces it between the points of the thumb and fingers of Ms right hand, while with those of the left he makes counter-pressure on the constricting ring. He gently but steadily compresses it for some minutes, and then by a combination of pushing and rotation, endeavours to press its neck within the stricture. If this proceeding fails, which it very seldom does when properly executed, he separates the swellings on each side of the stricture by bending down the extremity of the penis, so as to bring the tense cord-lil<:e portion of the skin which constitutes it into view; and then, with a sharp-pointed curved knife, makes a small incision at this part, about a line in length and depth. The reduction is now readily effected, unless the parts should have become consolidated by adhesive effusion, in consequence of the disease having been permitted to exist a number of days or weeks, in which case, just as in hernial protrusions that prove irreducible after the stricture has been divided, the completion of