THEOAT. 291 in order to guard against displacement of the edges of the wound. If the preternatural aperture is allowed to remain open, the rima glottidis has a tendency to contract, and even to close altogether. It may be possible, when such obliteration or straitening has occun'ed, to widen the passage sufficiently for the performance of its of&ce by introducing bougies from below upwards; but such a procedure is extremely difficult and uncer- tain, and the necessity for having recourse to it should there- fore be avoided by carefully promoting early closure of the wound. In cases where the oesophagus is cut, the patient must be fed through a tube, unless the opening in the coats of the canal should be so small as to render this unnecessary. The medical treatment of cut-throat is always extremely im- portant. There is generally great cerebral excitement,—the de- sire for self-destruction frequently continues in operation,—and the profuse hemorrhage which sometimes happens exposes the patient to the danger of excessive reaction. It should be recol- lected also, that the irritation of the wound may occasion swell- ing of the pharynx, and other deep-seated parts of the throat, adverse to free respiration, and may lead to bronchitis, more or less acute. Every source of bodily or mental excitement must therefore be strictly guarded against, while bleeding, counter- irritation, opiates, and antimony, are employed according to cir- cumstances. And whenever it seems, from the efforts of the patient or the sound of his respiration, that the ^air does not obtain a sufficiently free entrance, an opening into the trachea should be effected without delay. Tracheotomy and Laryngoiomy. These titles are used to express operations, of which the object is to admit air into the lungs, when the natural passage is obstructed, or to extract foreign bodies that have entered it. The diseases chiefly productive of obstruction are croup, cedema glottidis, and ulceration of the larynx. The membranous crust, which is effused in croup, and occasions the diminution of the