366 PRINCIPLES OF SUEGERY. rectum, and suffers no further inconvenience in the intervals between these attacks, which may be of several hours' duration. As the disease advances, he experiences more severe and con- tinued distress ; pressure of any kind, as that which proceeds from sitting, occasions great uneasiness ; and constipation is induced, which, by causing induration of the feculent matters, renders the symptoms still more intense. Mucus, sometimes tinged with blood, is copiously discharged ; when the nates are separated, the anus appears to be absent, owing to the close con- traction wliich it suffers from the inordinate action of the muscle ; and if an attempt is made to introduce the finger, the patient involuntarily springs beyond the surgeon's reach. Any circiim- stances productive of local or general irritation tend to aggravate the patient's suffering ; and those of an opposite kind occasion- ally procure for him intervals of comparative ease. The pain is especially referred to the situations which the chops occupy. The causes of the disease are not well ascertained. Tor the cure of this complaint, Boyer considered it necessaiy to divide the Sphincter ani, and such has been deemed the only certain means of remedy. Beginning my practice under this impression, I gradually limited the extent of incision, and since 1832 have felt warranted to state, that so far from division of the whole muscle being required, cutting the mucous membrane alone is sufiB.cient. In short, the essential of the operation is, converting the fissure into an incision ; and for this purpose, in- stead of the deep gash described by M. Boyer, I merely insert the point of a sharp-pointed curved bistoury at the lower end of the chop, and bring it out at the other extremity, so as to pass under the base and insure its complete division. The small wound thus inflicted scarcely requires any dressing, and the patient is at once relieved. There is a form of this disease which frequently occurs, but is less easily recognised, though the symptoms are well marked, and the sufferings of the patient so great that its discovery is of no small consequence, especially as the remedy is equally simple and certain. This is an lilcer seated immediately -witldn the