PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 236 muscles of the body, is instinctively rendered immovable when- ever any strong effort is to be made. With a similar view it is sometimes advantageous to effect the extension suddenly, when it is not expected by the patient; but unless it should seem practicable to accomplish the reduction in this way instan- taneously, the limb ought to be extended slowly and steadily, since the effect of the stretching force in subduing the contrac- tile energy of the muscles depends more upon its duration than its degree. The introduction of chloroform has superseded the use of all other subsidiary means, and, by completely suspend- ing muscular contraction, wonderfully facilitated the process of reduction. Coaptation is more or less required according to the resist- ance which is opposed to the reduction by the shape and situa- tion of the articular surfaces. As has been already remarked, it is generally least usefiil in the ball-and-socket joints, and of most advantage in those of the hinge form. In the former, it is sometimes not required at all; and in the latter, it is occasionally sufficient of itself to accomplish the operation. After the dislocation is reduced, the joint ought to be pro- tected against the operation of those circumstances which tend to renew the injury. It ought to be kept perfectly quiet, and frequently fomented, to allay the pain and initatiou consequent on the laceration and bruising of the various injured parts. It might be expected that the immediate pain as well as the danger of consecutive inflammation, woiild be greater in dislocation where the ligaments are torn, than in strains, where they are only overstretched. But this is not the case, and though inflam- mation, both acute and chronic, may no doubt result from the former accident, it is seldom followed by any serious bad con- sequences of this kind. Wlien the dislocation is not reduced, the bone acquires adhesions to the neighboui-iiig parts round the margin of its articular surface, and by its pressure induces absoi-ption of the surface it comes to act on, so that a cavity is formed for its reception, and a sort of new joint produced, which enables the