447 GENITAL ORGANS. mended it, and has given a. very particular description of the mode of performing the operation. The essential part of it is the introduction of a skein of silk, or cotton, through the parietes of the swelling in its long direction. Inflammation and suppura- tion follow, and at the end of a fortnight the seton being with- drawn, the cure is soon completed. Notwithstanding all the • precautions that can be used, the irritation thus excited some- times occasions an alarming degree of inflammation, and even in the most successful cases a long and irksome confinement is re- quired. The treatment by Injection was first employed by the surgeon of a Scotch regiment, named Munro, in the early part of last century. Various trials of it were made in this and other countries, particularly by Sabatier of Paris; but Sir J. Earle had the merit of introducing it into British practice. The object of the operation is to excite a degree of inflammation, sufficient to occasion such a change in the state of the parts concerned as may prevent the water from returning. An endless variety of fluids have been employed for this purpose, but port wine, solution of sulphate of zinc, and cold water, have been chiefly used untU lately, when the tincture of iodine has come to supersede all the others. There is some difference of opinion as to the mode in which irritating fluids, injected into the tunica vaginalis, act in radically curing the disease. Some have alleged that the respec- tive serous surfaces become finnly united, in consequence of an effusion of lymph from them; and others maintain that there is merely a change produced in the secreting action of the vessels,, which prevents the fluid from re-accumulating, though the cavity remains as perfect as ever. It is probable that the truth lies between these two opinions, and that, though union of the ad- jacent surfaces is not essential to the cure, adhesions generally do take place. The apparatus required for the operation is a smaU trocar, and a syringe capable of containing a quarter of an ounce. The trocar having been introduced as for the paClliative cure, the canula should be pressed in a little further, to insure its con- veying the injection fairly into the cavity of the timica vaginalis.