PRINCIPLES OF SURGERY. 524 and present characters so similar as to be distinguished from it with difficulty by external examination. The best way of deciding the question is to make an incision, which, in the event of the swelling proving solid, may be extended sufficiently for its removal. The Lips afford subject of surgical treatment chiefly on account of congenital malformations, and cancerous ulceration. The former of these are usually comprehended under the title of Hare-Lip. They consist in fissures of the upper lip, varying in extent and number, and either simple, or more or less compli- cated with malformation of the jaw and palate. The simplest form in which they are presented is that of a single fissure, extending from the edge of the Hp to its connection with the gum, and seated a little to one side of the mesial plane. In double hare-lip, there are two such fissures, with an intermediate portion of lip, which varies in size. The imperfections of the palate consist in a longitudinal spKt or division, which is either confined to the soft part, or extends throughout the whole parti- tion between the nose and mouth. This Split Palate may exist independently of hare-lip, but rarely does so. The maKormation to which the jaw is liable consists in a projection of the central part that holds the cutting teeth, forming a tumour from which ^ the teeth grow out at an angle to their ordinary direction. In most cases of this kind the projection comprehends an equal portion of both superior maxillary bones—^the portion, namely, which in the lower animals is occupied by two distinct bones, the ossa incidva or intcrmaxillaria. It forms a round knob, con- nected by a narrow neck to the septum of the nose, covered with a firm substance, similar to the gum, and having at its anterior part a similar shaped, but smaller sized, appendage, consisting of the tissue that should have constituted the lip. The fissures on each side of this Imob meet together behind it, and are then con- tinued through the palate backwards. Instead of tliis conforma- tion there is sometimes merely an overlapping of one edge of the split gum over the other, and the degree to which the projection thus formed takes place is extremely various.