PIUNCIPLES OF SURGERY. 39? integuments, or rupture of the parts witliin, but merely as it seems a temporary paralysis, or want of consent in the muscles concerned, in consequence of the contusion. At other times the urethra is torn, blood streams from the orifice of the penis, not a drop of rxrine can escape, and a tumour is formed under the integuments of the perineum opposite the injured part by blood and urine. The treatment of such injuries is obvious, and not difficult. If there is no evidence of the urethra being ruptured, it may be expected that rest, warm fomentations, and slightly stimulating injections thrown into the rectum, wiU. soon restore the healthy actions which have been disturbed ; and should circumstances require it, a catheter may be introduced with the same facility as usual, to relieve the bladder from distension. For some time after such injuries, a bougie should be passed occasionally to prevent contraction of the canal, which is apt to happen in con- sequence of the irritation caused by the blow. But if, from the discharge of blood, the tension of the peiineum, and the impos- sibility which is experienced in attempting to introduce a catheter, it is ascertained that the urethra has been ruptured, Tueans must be taken without delay to provide for the evacuation of the urine, which cannot be expected to take place naturally, and to prevent the fluid from passing extensively into the cellidar substance through the breach of the urethi-a, which would necessarily lead to the most disastrous consequences. The best mode of proceeding is to cut into the perineal tumour, and then, having brought the ruptured canal into view, to convey a flexible catheter into the bladder. It may be allowed to remain for a few days, as in the case of operating for obstructed urethra, and the subsequent treatment does not differ from that which is proper on such an occasion. Diseases of the Prostate Gland. The Prostate Gland is little subject to disease previous to the age of fifty-five or sLxty. It is then Liable to an enlargemelit, which in its nature most agrees with the simple vascular sar-