1 '57 THE RADICAL CURE OF HYDROCELE. tunica vaginalis ^^’hioh is necessary for a radical cure. It is well known that, when a hydrocele is radically cured by injection, it is so, not by any adhesion taking place between the two o])posite snrlaces of the tunica vaginalis and a consequent obliteration of its cavity, but by the inflammation that is artificially induced exciting such a modification of this membrane as to restore the balance lK?tween the secretion and absorption of the fluid by which it is naturally lubricated. Xow, in some cases, sufficient inflammation is not induced by the introduction of the irritating fluid to restore the natural balance between these two functions of the membrane; and the tunica vaginalis gradually fills again after the injection, as it Avould after the simple operation of tapping. It occa- sionally happens that the patient may suffer excruciating agony at the time c>f the injection, from the contact of the stimulating fluid Avith the surface of the testis, and yet little or no inflammation may be excited. The amount of sutfering, therefore, at the time of the operation is by no means proportionate* to the amount of consecutiA’C inflammation AAffiich folloAvs. Indeed, the rcA’crse Avould appear to be the case in many instances ; and I liaA'c often observed that, in those cases which progress most steadily to a radical cure, there is but a moderate amount of pain experienced at the time of the injection. There is a second Avay in Avhich injections Avould appear to fail ; a consider- able amount of inflammation is excited, and effusion takes place into the tunica vaginalis, which in the course of three or four days becomes distended to, or almost to, the same size, that it had previously to the operation ; but this effused fluid, instead of being absorbed by the end of the second or third Aveek, remains unchanged in bulk, or absolution goes on to a certain point, and tlien seems to be aiTested; the tunica vaginalis remaining distended Avith a i-crtain quantity of fluid. A third Avay in AA’hich the failure arises, is in consequence of the Avails of the sac being so thickened that they cannot collapse. The proportion of cases in Avhich the iodine-injection fails to bring about a radical cure of the hydrocele is variously estimated by different Surgeons. Tims Sir J. R. Martin states that in India the failures scarcely amount to 1 per cent. : A^elpeau-calculates them at per cent. I am not aivare that any statistics of this mode of treatment in this country havn l)cen collected ; but the general opinion of Surgeons Avould appear to be decidedly in its favour, as being the most successful as Avell as the safest plan of treatment that has yet l)cen introduced. In this opinion I fully coincide : yet it is by no means improbable that the success of the iodine-injection in this country Avould prove to be not (piite so great as is generally believed. I haA'e seen a considerable number of cases of simple hydrocele of the tunica vaginalis, both in hospital and in priA'atc ))racticc, in AA’hich a radical eaire had not been effected, although recourse had been had to the iodine-in jec-tion by some of the most careful and skilful Surgeons of the day, as Avell as by myself. It is es])ccially apt to fail in men advanced in years. In them there is either not sufficient inflammation excited, or if it Ikj, the fluid that is as a, conse(juencc effused into the tunica va‘o’nalis is not re-al)Sorbed. Seton.—'I’he cure by the introduction ol a seton, though formerly much eiuployed, is seldom ])ractiscd at the, ]>rescnt day, chiefly on account of the danger of exciting too much inflammation. It may, hoAVCA’cr, convenicntlv be employed in the true hydroceles of children, and in some of those eases in