DISEASES OF VEINS. 58 Tcin becomes liarcl, swollen, knobbed, and painful, the knobs constituting^ distinct enlargements opposite the valves, or in the ])onch-like dihitations of the varicose vein. The skin covering it assumes a reddish purple colour, and there may be stiffness, or inability to move the limb. There may perhaps be no pain when the limb is at rest, but in some cases there are severe shocks of pain, resembling neuralgia, darting through the limb. In all cases there is acute tenderness over the course of the vessel. There is always some oedema around the inflamed vein, but if a single superficial vein is affected there is but little swelling of the parts that supply it with blood, owing to its free communications with the deep veins. When the deep veins are affected the most marked signs are deep-seated acute pain and tenderness, with marked oedema of the parts from which the vein derives its blood. This oedematous condition of the limb is a most important diagnostic sign of deep-seated phlebitis when the vein cannot be felt (as in the pelvis for instance), and may be the first symptom observed, coming on either suddenly or gTadually. The oedema may give rise to a hard, 'white, tense condition of the limb, which pits on pressure, though in some cases the hardness is too great for this, such as is seen in the ordinary “white leg ” of the accoucheurs. Occasionally in deep phlebitis the limb may suddenly swell to a considerable size without there being any subcutaneous oedema. In phlebitis of the deep veins of the leg and thigh, the calf of the affected limb may suddenly enlarge, with great pain and much distension of the superficial veins with fluid blood, but without any subcutaneous oedema. As the inflam- mation subsides the pain and tenderness disappear ; and if superficial, the distended vein, with its solid contents, becomes more clearly defined. In varicose veins complete obliteration of the vessel may take place, the hard cord gradually diminishing in size till it is no longer perceptible. If the deep-seated veins are affected the oedema continues long after the signs of inflammation have disappeared, perhaps for many months, till either the channel of the vein has been restored or the superficial veins have enlarged sufficiently to carry back the blood without difficulty. If suppuration takes place in phlebitis of a superficial vein, the symptoms are those of an ordinary acute abscess. When the deep veins are affected, the symptoms are less clear until the accumulation becomes of sufficient size to give a distinct sense of fluctuation. In these cases there is but little fear of pyemia, as the vein is closed by a firm adherent clot on each side of the part in which suppuration is taking place. After the resulting abscess has been opened, however, spreading septic phlebitis, followed by pymmia, is very apt to occur unless proper antiseptic precautions are taken to prevent it. The constitu- tional disturbance in the form of phlebitis is not severe unless suppuration takes place, and even then it speedily subsides as soon as the pus is evacuated. The symptoms of spreading septic phleWis of the deep veins are less evident, being concealed more or less completely at first by the unhealthy inflammation taking place in the part from which the mischief has started, and later on by the gi’ave constitutional symptoms of pyajinia which speedily manifest themselves. Pain and tenderness in the line of the vein, with considerable oedema rapidly coming on, would lead to a suspicion of its occurrence. The superficial veins are less commonly affected, but should it happen, the symptoms are those just described of superficial phlebitis, differing