URETIIROFLA STIC OPERA TIONS. 'S ] i; . ; f suture. The displacement of the skin covers in the aperture in the 1 irethra and causes granulations to spring up, by which the fistula is closed ‘ Fig. 1»38). 2. The edges of the fistula having been pared and the skin separated . videly, lateral incisions may be made so as to take off all tension, and a ■ .lip of India-rubber may then be passed underneath the flaps of skin, in : )rder to prevent contact with urine from disturbing the adhesions (Fig. 03'.)). ' 3. Ricord, recognizing the fact that the occasional intrusion of a drop , ff urine between the freshened edges of the integuments brought together 4' o close the fistula is the most common cause of disunion, recommended that, in those cases in which a perineal or a scrotal fistula happens to P co-exist with a penile one, a catheter should be passed through the former into the bladder, and left there during the Avhole of the operative procedures that are adopted for the closure of the penile fistula. Should no fistula exist ' I: in the perinaeum, he has proposed, though I believe the operation has never • 5 yet been practised, to puncture the bladder—which would most conveniently j and safely be done through the rectum—and to keep it emptied in this ■’ way until the penile fistula has been closed by one of the preceding operations, . and then to allow the lower aperture to close spontaneously; or, if it were situated in the perina3um, to adopt surgical means for its occlusion. 4. Le Gros Clark has recommended and successfully practised the following operation. Ha\ing pared the edges of the fistula, he makes a transverse cut through the integuments of the penis, about an inch in length, above and below it. He then dissects up the flaps of skin so bounded, and brings them A i 1 i i Fik. WO-—Urtthrojdasty. Clark’s OjK:ration : First Stage. Hg. Urethroplasty. Clark's OiKMution : Second Stage. together by means of chimps or the quilled suture. By this operation a wide raw surface from each side is brought into contact, instead of a mere raw edge of cut integument, and there is amscqiicntly a greater chance of succe.'^sful union resulting (Figs. D4o, !»41). In all operations of this kind union will be promoted by keeping the part constantly bathed with a concentnited cold solution of boracic acid. In this way all decomjiosition of any mucus or urine that may accidentally find its way to the wound is prevented, and at the same time the lotion is so unin-itating that it does not interfere with union. The lotion is best applied