SIM PL E PROS TA TIC TUMO URS. 1057 ‘ fluid escapes fi’om the cut surface and from the opeiiiiij^s of the prostatic; rLicts ; while in other cases this is entirely wanting. Small cavities, dila- i|:.tions of the gland-follicles, arc occasionally found ; sometimes emjity, iL'metimes containing a yellow fluid resembling pus in appearance, but H )usisting of the prostatic secretion in a thickened state. The prostate jl.ay attain a very large size. The largest that I liave seen is cerhiiuly t| le in the Norwich Hospital Museum, taken from a man of eighty; it weighs 11 or; than 20 ounces. ". Simple Prostatic Tumours.—The nature of simple tumours of the ■estate has been carefully studied by Sir Henry Thompson ; to whose ciborate work on the diseases of this organ the student is referred for further formation. According to Thompson, tumours of non-malignaut character •e met with in most cases of hypertrophied prostate, and also occasionally .hen there is no enlargement of the organ. He divides them into two classes. ‘‘1. Tmnoui-s which are generally imbedded in the substances of the pro- late, but the structiu’es of which are isolated from those which surrounded it. a I “2. Outgrowths which are continuous in structure with the parts of the |»’Ostate whence they spring, but which manifest a tendency to become pal- ally isolated, by assuming a more or less polypoid form, and maintaining Dtachment to the parent organ through the medium of a pedicle only.” 1. The isolated tumours in the substance of the prostate have been recognized 7 Sir E. Home, Cruveilhier, Rokitansky, Paget, and other pathologists. : hey may occupy any portion of the organ ; but are, perhaps, more numerous L the lateral lobes than elsewhere. They are easily enucleated, having but a ■ose connection with the substance of the gland. In diameter they vary from jth to -Jths of an inch. They are firmer and mostly paler in colour than the ■:oper prostatic tissue, and are less vascular. “ The basis of the tumours appears to be the fibrous basis or stroma of the frostate itself, an admixture of unstriped, soft, pale muscular fibres, and con- eective with a little elastic tissue, closely interwoven. Interspersed with this, 1 lere are present in most cases small cavities containing flattened polygonal or ) )heroidal epithelium, like that seen in a pouch at the extremity of a prostatic J.aud-duct, and sometimes, also, some prismatic epithelium. These cavities are ometimes solitary, sometimes slightly branched, and sometimes of an elongated ■ • tubular form. In a few instances there is very little, or, perhaps no such - andular tissue to be found ; generally, however, a careful search will discover .. In some of the outlying tumoiu’S the glandular structure is more perfectly eveloped—in some it is quite so—and a duct is furnished which evidently urries secretion to the appointed destination.” 2. The part of the prostate which is most usually the seat of outgrowth is the i liddle or urethral portion, which may become greatly enlarged in size, with • without hypertrophy of the lateral lobes. The growth assumes a pyriform nape, and is more or less pedunculated. It is continuous in structui'c with le prostatic tissues, and has its own duct, which opens into the ui-ethra »irough the pedicle. Rrostatic concretions are commonly found in these out- rrowths ; never in tlie isolated tumours. Though most common in the middle portion of the prostate, outgrowths 7|iiay occur from the posterior part of one of tlie lateral lobes, or from that ortion of tlie gland which lies above or in front of the inner orifice of the rethra. VOL, II. 3 Y