SA SO-PHA R YNGEA L TUMO URS. 551 iiares by the presence of the larger ones, now come down and require removal. These procedures must be had recourse to from time to time, until all tendency to fresh formations of this kind has ceased. The Ugaturc is required chiefly for those poly]3i that pass into the pharyn.x through the posterior nares. They may best be tied by passing a loop of strong whipcord, by means of a double cannula, through the nose ; and then, after expanding the noose round the tumour in the throat, and inaking it gTjisp its pedicle, knotting it tightly. In some instances the polypi attain a gi*eat size, producing absorption of the nasal bones, and of the nasal process of the superior maxilla. In such cases it may be necessary, in order to extract them, to slit up the nose, and clip away with forceps the osseous surface from which they spring. Fibrous Polypus.—Naso-pharyngeal Tumour.—The term fibrous polypus is applied to a fibroma springing in exceedingly rare cases from the periosteum of the bones entering into the walls of the nasal cavity, but more commonly fi’om the base of the skull, especially from the basilar process of the occipital bone and the under surface of the body of the sphenoid. Fibrous pol}-pus is a disease of early life, seldom commencing before the tenth year or after the twentieth. As the tumour increases in size it gradually fills the upper part of the pharynx, and extends into the posterior part of the nasal cavity. Its surface is lobulated and covered by mucous membrane, it is firm and resisting to the touch. In the earlier stages its form and size can be ascertained only by digital examination from the mouth, the finger being passed up behind the soft palate. In the later stages the tumour may be seen from the nostrils, and may appear below the soft palate, pushing this forward and seriously interfering with deglutition and finally with respiration. These tumoiu’s bleed freely, and may even be fatal directly from loss of blood. Microscopic examination shows that they are composed of fibrous tissue, with a varying number of flattened or oat-shaped cells between the fibres. They usually contain large tortuous dilated vessels, which form so prominent a feature in their structure that it has sometimes been suggested to term the growth fibro-angioma. When these vessels are opened by ulceration, or in an operation for removal of the growth, they bleed exceedingly freely, being- unable to contract or retract owing to the density of the structure in which they lie. The jyrognosis is extremely unfavourable. If left unrelieved they always cause death sooner or later either by hmmorrhage or asphyxia. The Treatmnnt consists in their removal whenever this is possible. When the tumour is pedunculated it may be possible to pass the loop of a galvanic ecraseur or of a common wire ecraseur round the pedicle from the nose. This is, however, seldom practicable. Electrolysis is said to have been successfully used in the destruction of these tumours, but its efficacy is somewhat doubtful. The method generally recognized as being most generally applicable in the [wesent day, is removal by means of Paquelin’s red-hot knife ; but in order to do this it is necessary to expose the tumour fully, and several })laus have Ijeen suggested of doing this, of Avhich the fdlowiug are the most iuqiortant. When any cutting ])lan is adopted it is always safer, as great lucmorrhage may be exjKJCted, to do a preliminary tracheotomy and to ])lug the trachea with Trendelenburg’s obturator, or to pass a large s})onge into the idiarynx, otherwise death may be caused by entrance of blood into the lungs.