ANEURISM. 152 occurred, but pulsation never (jiiite ceased. Tlie improvement commenced after the second injection. No unpleasant symjitoms occurred after the injec- tions. In the second case a man, a«-ed 42, had a sacculated aneurism of the radial artery of the size of a hazel-nut. An injection of two grains and a half of the watery extract cured it in one day, as the next day it could not be felt. The injection gave rise to some inflammation of the surrounding cellular tissue, which disappeared in a Aveek. This accident I have seen happen in one case in which I tried it, but no good resulted from the treatment, which cannot, indeed, on pathological grounds, be considered to be of a hopeful character. Inteoduction of Foreign Bodies.—The introduction of foreign bodies of various kinds mto the sac has been attempted in a considerable number of cases Avith the vieAV of producing an artificial coagulum in the aneurism. Thus coils of horsehair, catgut, or iron Avire have been thrust into and left in the sac, through a puncture made in it. The results of these operations liaA'e not been such as to justify a repetition of the treatment. Acupuncture Avith very fine needles has, however, been performed AAuth some benefit in a feAv cases, and if carefully carried out, can hardly be produc- tive of any injury. It Avas first suggested by Velpeau, and practised without success by DunAulle and AgneAV. Marshall has in more than one case obtained ill this Avay some consolidation in aortic aneurisms, and MacEwen succeeded in curing a popliteal aneurism by the introduction of a fine needle while the femoral artery was compressed. Heath attempted the same treatment in a case of subclavian aneurism in University College Hospital after he had unsuc- cessfully amputated at the shoulder-joint. Six fine needles were introduced into the sac in such a Avay as to cross each othei*, and were left in for fom’ days, at the end of Avhich time the tumour Avas much firmer. The patient died about tweHe days after fr’om causes unconnected Avith the treatment, and a considerable amount of firm clot was found in the sac. This treatment seems worthy of further trial in otherwise hopeless cases as a substitute for galvano-puncture. The smallest sewing needles with heads made of seahng- wax may be used, as in Heath’s case ; or better still, the fine pins known as entomological pins, which should be gilded. They may be left in for from four to five days, and it is perhaps safer to cover them Avith some simple antiseptic dressing to duninish the risk of ulceration. After they are removed the punctures must be covered with collodion. arterio-venous aneurism, Preternatural communication between arteries and veins, though usually the result of Avoimds, occasionally happens from disease ; ulceration taking place between the vessels, and thus causing an aperture to lead from one into the other. When such communications are of traumatic origin, they may, as has already been stated, constitute either an Aneurismal Varir or a Varicose Aneurism. As the result of disease, aneiu-ismal A’arix only can occur, Anricose aneurism never happening except as a consequence of Avound. These spon- taneous communications have been met with betAveen the aorta and the A'cna cava, and bctAAnen the iliac, femoral, carotid, and subclavian arteries and their accompanying veins. In nature, symptoms, course, and treatment, they so closely resemble traumatic aneurismal varix, described at p. 440, "N ol. I., that their consideration need not detain us here.