I SYMPTOMS OF PILES. 889 foreign boilv witliin the gut. o V O 4 After defiucatioii these sensations are increased, and are often aeconujanied by a bearing down, as if the bowel were not emptied of its eontcnts, that is peculiarly distressing and sickening. This is occasioned by the piles, or the elongated and condensed mucous membrane to which they are attached, being protruded during the expulsion of the fmces, and : not returning snlKciently quickly, being grasped by the sphincter ani and ‘ constricted by it. d'his feeling of discomfort and bearing down is much increased, if the patient stand or walk much after having had a stool, or if he have a confined state of the boAvels. If this state of things be not properly attended to, the symptoms become increased in severity; the bearing-down ji sensation amounts to true tenesmus, and the act of defecation becomes so j painful that the patient defers it as long as possible, and then when it does take place, in conse(|ueuce of the accumulation of the excreta and their indurated I character, the suffering is much increased. External piles now usually make their appearance, if they have not existed before ; the mucous membrane of I. the rectum becomes prolapsed, and an increased secretion of thin mucus takes place from the orifice of the gut, moistening the part and soiling the patient’s linen. Irritation in the neighbouring organs is frequently set up ; occasionally to so great an extent as to mask the original complaint, the patient referring his principal pain and discomfort to these sympathetic disturbances. There is often a dull aching fixed pain at the lower part of the lumbar spine, and more frequently opposite the sacrum or the sacro-iliac articulation on either side ; this is sometimes very severe, perhaps runs down the thigh, or round the groins; iiTitability of the testicles may come on, or irritation about the neck of the bladder, causing fi*cquent desire to micturate, and increasing the patient’s sufferings by the straining that takes place. The general health now suffers, the patient may become emaciated, and the countenance often presents a j-(xjculiarly anxious, drawn, and careworn look. The symptom, however, that first of all and most prominently fixers the ^patient’s attention, is Haemorrhage. This varies greatly in quantity ; at •first there may merely be a few drops falling after the passage of a motion, or the cylinder of faeces may be stained on one side by a streak or spots of blood, or the bleeding may amount to se's'eral ounces or even pints. The hmmon-hoidal flux is connected Avith, and in the great majority of cases dependent upon, the existence of distinct haemorrhoidal tumours. Occasionally, lowever, it appears to occur Avhen there is no distinct separate tumour pro- _ lecting above the surface of the membrane ; but in these cases there is general #ntumesccnce and congestion of the whole of the mucous membrane of the ower part of the rectum, from Avhich the blood exudes in drops, or it may veil spirt in a distinct jet from the open mouth of a blood-A’essel. It is requently ushered in by an exacerbation of those symptoms that commonly ccompany piles, such as a sensation of fulness, Aveight, and tension about he parts. Ihit the symptoms that precede its occurrence are often much more mj)erfectly marked than is usually stated, and are frequently absent altogether. The discharge of blood may be periodical, especially in Avomeu, occurring veiy month, or at intervals of two, three, or six months ; and it may be emittent or intemittent. When once it has set in, it usually continues from hree to six days, increasing in quantity up to the third or fourth day, and lien lessening. ^Vhen moderate in quantity and short in duration, it is often a source of