iWyCEli OF TUF ANUS. S71 pressure of sponges and partly by the use of forci-pressnre iorccps. Tlie haemorrhage can in this way be easily kept under control, and seldom causes any great trouble. After the operation it is useless to try to bring the mucous membrane down to the anus. As Cripps points out, the stitches always give way and nothing is gained. The wound should be thoroughly sponged out with some antiseptic solution, chloride of zinc, (gr. 4(j to 5j.j, being far the most efficient. It may then be sprinkled with iodoform. In most cases it is better to IcaAe the whole incision to close by granulation, as free di-ainage is then certain to be obtained. Volkmann recommends closing the anterior part and inserting a large drainage-tube behind, but there seems little advantage in so doing. The after-treatment consists in well syringing the wound once or twice a day with some anti- septic solution and the application of a little iodoform. The bowels must be ju-evented from acting for ten days or a fortnight by proper diet and the administration of opium. Healing takes place slowly, and the mucous mem- brane becomes drawn down considerably towards the skin. A strictured anus almost necessarily results if the whole circumference of the bowel have been removed, but this may usually be kept sufficiently patent by the constant use of bougies. Incontinence of fteces is more rare. Cripps states that it occurred in seven cases out of thirty-six, and in six more it occurred slightly when the motions were liquid. Removal of a part of the circumference is a much more successful oj)eratiou. It is performed in the same way as that just described, but the healthy raucous membrane and the corresponding part of the anus must be preserved uninjured, a longitudinal incision with scissors being carried up the bowel on each side of the morbid growth. It is seldom followed either by incontinence or serious stricture of the bowel. TTound of the peritoneum is a most serious but not necessarily fatal accident. If the opening be small and within reach an attempt may be made to close it by sutures. If this cannot be done, according to Bardenheuer the patient is given the best chance of life by the introduction of a full-sized drainage tube into the peiitoneal pouch from the rectum. The mortality from the operation is considerable as judged by statistics. ('. Kelsey of Xew York collected 140 cases, and states that in 22 of these rapid death followed ; in 10 from peritonitis, in 4 from pelvic cellulitis, and in ;3 from haemorrhage. In only G had a permanent cure resulted. There seems no doubt, however, that iti well selected cases, taken early, the operation holds out a fair prospect of prolonged relief or even cure. Cancer of the Anns.—The anus may be affected by extension of cancerous growths from the rectum. When the disease is primary it is always squamous (.•pithelioma (Fig. 404, p, 1031, Vol. I.), occurring at the anus, just as it does at other muco-cutancoiis surfaces. It forms a nodular projection, often resembling a swollen external pile, for which I have more than once seen it mistaken. It ulcerates later than the same disease in other situations, the mass often ■ reaching the size of a pigeon’s egg before the surface gives way. If limited in extent and detected in good time it may bo advantageously e.xcised by an Operation similar to that for removal of the lower part of the rectum. At a more advanced period such a jiractice can scarcely be ado])ted witli any : prosxKJCt of success, in consequence of the impossibility of removing the ' whole of tlie structures implicated.