DISEASES OF ARTERIES. 88 plates corresponding to the atlieromatons patches in wliich the lime salts have been deposited, this change has also received the name of laminar calcificaiion. Microscopic examination of an atheromatous arteiy in the early stage of the disease shows that the morbid change commences in the deeper layers of the inner coat by a proliferation of the flattened cells that lie between the laminas of connective tissue of which it is chiefly composed. The new cells are arranged in lines between the laminae. With the i^roliferation of the cells there is a growth of new laminae of connective tissue closely resembling that of the healthy inner coat, both in appearance and in arrangement. The change is therefore a true overgrowth of the deeper layers of the intima. The relative amount of cells and fibrous intercellular substance varies in different cases, but the chief bulk of the new tissue is always composed of the latter. The cells are small, rounded or slightly flattened and contain a nucleus of considerable size, round which it is often difficult to recognise any protoplasm. Xo vessels joenetrate the new tissue and consequently Avhen it reaches a certain stage of development the central parts are but imperfectly nourished, and degeneration commences. The cells become shrivelled and granular, and fatty granules also appear in the intercellular substance. At a later stage calcareous granules may also make their appearance. If softening takes place, the fat-granules increase in quantity, and solution of the intercellular substance follows. If complete liquefaction takes place the atheromatous fluid is found under the microscope to be composed chiefly of fatty debris and oil-globules, and very frequently it contains plates of cholesterine (Fig. 435). The accompanying drawing (Fig. 43 G), illustrates the structm-e of an atheromatous patch very well. The changes in the middle and outer coats require but little notice. The middle coat in the later stages is often invaded by a growth similar in charac- ter and structure to that which originally started in the inner coat. In fact, it seems to be an extension of the same growth, the true structures of the middle coat being atrophied from pressure. The outer coat shows a growth of new fibrous tissue containing a number of small round, or elongated cells. Nature and Causes.—The views as to the nature of the disease have undergone various changes, but at the present time it is almost universally regarded as a chronic inflammatory process, characterized by overgrowth of the affected tissue followed by degeneration. Gulliver was long ago inclined to this opinion, and it has been especially insisted on by Virchow, Billroth, and Moxon. That it belongs to the class of morbid processes almost universally spoken of as chronic inflammations, may be said now to be gene- rally accepted, but the difference between these and acute inflammation is so marked that probably, with the advance of pathological knowledge, a complete separation will be made between them. The most important cause of chronic endarteritis is mechanical strain. This may be constant, as the result of abnormal resistance in the capillaries Fig. 435.—Atheroma, -witli abun- dant Cholesterine. . « i