rREDISrOSIXG CAUSES OF PILES. 88s some passes into the internal iliac vein through branches that accompany the middle and inferior.luemorrhoidal arteries. We may, therefore, look upon the hmmorrhoidal plexus as being placed midway between the portal and general venous systems, being the point indeed at which they touch ; but as belonging rather to the portal than to the systemic veins. In these arrangements we sec all the elements that would predispose to congestion, and consequent dilatation of the vessels of a part. I’here is a large and intricate plexus of veins in which, tis in all similar net-works, there is a tendency for the blood to circulate slowly at times ; the natural tendency to stasis of the blood being much increased by the dependent position of the part, and by the anatomical fact that, in conse- quence of the absence of valves in the superior hmmorrhoidal vein and in the vessels into which it poui-s its contents, the whole pressure of the cohunu of blood in the portal system may be brought to bear upou the haemorrhoidal plexus. The circulation through the portal system is likewise subject to much interference in consequence of hepatic and intestinal obstruction, and in these -changes the blood in the hmmorrhoidal plexus also participates ; and, were it not for the provision that exists by which this plexus may free itself to a certain extent from over-distension by its communication with the internal iliac through the medium of the middle hsemorrhoidal vein, piles would be . much more frequent than they even now are, as a consequence of obstructed IX)rtal circidation. Another great cause of liEemorrhoidal enlargement is to be ui found in the want of support that the veins of this plexus experience on their i: mucous aspect during defaecation. Situated as they are in areolar tissue, between a plane of muscular fibres on one side, and yielding mucous membrane 11 on the other, Avhen distended by the constriction which they undergo during ll'.and after the expulsion of the contents of the rectum, they necessarily give way on that side on which they have the least support, being forced down and fi I elongated, together with the mucous membrane under which they ramify, and js ^ which has a natural tendency to become slightly everted during the act of idefaecatiou. It will be found that all the more immediate or exciting causes of piles act by unduly increasing one or other of those natural tendencies that f exist in the system, by favouring the local congestion or determination of blood, I it the same time that they produce a lax state of fibre. Affe e.xerciscs considerable influence in predisposing to piles. This disease is not unfrequently met with in young men of eighteen or twenty years of :jge ; more especially if they be of a relaxed and phlegmatic temperament with languid circulation, and be obliged to lead a more sedentary life than is natural or proper at that age. After this period, the liability to the disease diminishes until middle age is reached, when the tendency to haemon’hoida). iffectioiis is again increased, and becomes more marked than at any former period of life, <nving to the more active operation of those causes that tend to (si impede the return of the portal blood. ^ tSej: appears to exercise more influence on the occurrence of hminorrhoids d particular periods of life, than on the general liability to the disease. It :crtainly appeal’s to be more frequently met with amongst men at an early nge, than in young women ; but at a later period of life, so far as my obser- v'a ion goes, the disease occurs with nearly equal frequency in both sexes. The jornp-arative exemption of young women is readily accounted for, by the periodic discharges from the uterus preventing the congestions that might othenvise occur in the parts in its vicinity. The greater frequency in females !