1114 DISEASES OE THE URETHRA. is not possible permanently to cure a stricture, is a (juestion which has been much debated. The advocates of the various inodes of treatment, whether forcible dilatation, internal urethrotomy, external urethrotomy, or caastics, have often asserted that by the means they adopt a stricture can be really cured, so that the patient is rid of his disease for ever, and need fear no return. The general opinion, however, of those who have studied this question care- fully, is that although a patient can be put into a position in which his stricture need never be a source of danger to him if he occasionally passes an instru- ment, he cannot be really cured—that is to say, by no means of treatment can a strictured urethra be restored to its normal condition. Every patient, there- fore, who has once sulfered from a definite organic stricture, should continue for the rest of his life to pass a full-sized instrument not less than once a month ; otherwise, gradual contraction is almost certain to take place, and the whole treatment will have to be commenced again. COMPLICATIONS AND BESULTS OP STRICTUKE. Retention of Urine has already been several times described as arising from different causes. Thus, in boys, it arises from the impaction of a cal- culus in the urethra ; in girls it is usually hysterical ; in old men it is almost invariably the consequence of atony of the bladder or enlarged prostate, alone or combined. In those of middle age, stricture of the urethra is the occa- sioning cause in the vast majority of cases. Retention of urine has a tendency to occur in all tight strictures from the gradual and progressive contraction of the canal. It most usually, however, takes place in consequence of a conges- tive spasmodic condition being superadded to the organic constriction. It commonly happens that a patient having a moderately tight organic strictm'e commits an excess, or becomes exposed to cold and wet, and thus gets such a congested condition superadded, that the urine will not pass at all, or only in such smaU quantity by drops, and with so much pain and straining, that the bladder cannot be completely emptied. In these cases the retention always eventually becomes complete ; the bladder speedily fills, and rises above the pubes ; there is much distress and constitutional disturbance ; and, if relief be not afforded, the distended portion of the urethra behind the stricture will ultimately give way, and extravasation of urine ensue. In these circumstances it becomes imperatively necessary to empty the patient’s bladder as speedily as possible. Treatment.—This varies with the severity of the symptoms and irritability of the patient. If the retention have not continued very long, and if tlie patient be not very irritable, an endeavour might be made at once to give relief by passing a small catheter into the bladder. In this the Surgeon may often succeed more readily than might have been expected, the stricture frequently yielding before an instrument more easily when there is retention, than when this condition docs not exist. Even if the catheter do not enter the bladder, its point or that of a catgut bougie merely being introduced well into the stricture, it will generally happen, as Brodie has pointed out, that, on the with- drawal of the instrument, the urine will follow in a frill stream ; but if a sufficiently small catheter be used (in many cases not larger than half of A 0. 1 is admissible), the instrument may usually be made to fairly enter the bladder. If the patient be very irritable it is better, before attempting the introduction of the instrument, to give him an opiate enema of a drachm of laudanum in