UHI NARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 944 of the organ (Fig. 8:59). In the event of liis not meeting with a stone, he may explore the bladder, first on one side, then on the other. Should the rational symptoms of stone be well marked, though no calculus Ije struck, tlie Surgeon must not give a decided opinion in the negative after the fii-st exploration, but should examine the patient again a few days later, with the bladder in different state as to its contents. In making this second examination, I have found it of great service to use a hollow steel sound, by which the organ can be in- jected or emptied at pleasure (Fig. 840). The patient should on this occasion ' have his bladder injected through such an instrument as this, with four or six ^ ounces of tepid water, so as to distend the organ slightly, and prevent the folds i- of mucous membrane from overlapping any concretion that may exist in it. Its interior is then carefully explored in the way already described ; and, if the stone cannot then be detected, the contents of the blaidder are gradually allowed to escape through the sound, and the patient is desired to stand up whilst the t Fig. 840.—Hollow Sound. exploration is being proceeded with. In this way, by examining a patientjii different positions and in different conditions of the bladder as to capacity, a calculus is sure to be detected if oue exist. A lithotrite may occasionally VjQ advantageously used as a sound for the detection of small calculi lying behind the prostate, a situation more readily reached by its short beak than by an instrument of larger curve. These examinations must not, houevei, be too protracted ; the time occupied should not exceed five minutes, lest cystitis be induced. When a stone is struck by the sound, there is not only a characteristic and distinct shock communicated to the instrument, but a tolerably loud click is given, which can be heard by the bystanders, and frequently by the patient, as well as by the Surgeon. Rough sounding is doubly injurious. It injures the bladder and fails to