9o6 SECONDARY DISEASES OF THE URINARY ORGANS. ’2. Acute interstitial iiiilammation : 3. Acute interstitial inflammation with scattered abscesses : 4. The results of former acute or subacute attacks from which the patient has recovered. 1. The Results of Pressure.—A case lately occurred at University Collej^e Hospital, which alibrded an opportunity of examining the uncomplicated effects of pressure Avith great advantage. The ureters had Ijeen pressed upon by two enormons saccnli, Avhich projected from the bladder immediately behind the trigone. The bladder was much dilated and hypertrophied, but tlie cause of disease was uncertain. There Avere no signs of old or recent cystitis, and no instrument had been passed during life. In this case both ureters Avere greatly dilated, and the pelvis on each side Avas expanded so as to contain many ounces of fluid. The kidneys were someAvhat increased in size, and before beiug opened felt like great thick walled bags of fluid giving all over a distinct sense of fluctuation. On being cut open, each presented the folloAving appearances. The capsule Avas tough and opaque, and separated Avith difficulty from the kidney-substance, slightly tearing it in so doing, and leaving the surface coarse and irregular. The surface was uniformly pale, and Avhitish in colour. No trace of the pyramids was to be seen, but where each should have been Avas a deep hoUoAV lined with a smooth membrane continuous AAuth that fining the pelvis of the kidney. The cortex was of about normal thickness, but in some parts thinner than natural; it was somewhat tough in consistence, and presented a uniform opaque whitish tint. The whole kidney was thus converted into a great sacculated bag, composed on one side of the dilated and thickened pelvis, and on the other of the expanded cortex of the kidney. There Avere no signs of past or present acute inflammation. On microscopic examination of a section of the cortex, the chief change noticeable was an abundant small round-celled inflltration of the intertubular tissue of the kidney. Every tubule Avas separated from its neighbours by rapidly growing young connective tissue, crowded Avith small round cells, and this, by pressing on the vessels, had given rise to the pale colour above noted. The neAV growth was most abundant round the Malpighian bodies, the capsules of which were gTeatly thickened ; so much so, that in many the vessels had been strangled and obliterated. The amount of change was not uniform, the new gTowth being more abundant in some parts than in others. The tubules themselves shoAved no great signs of change. They were slightly dilated in some parts, and the epithelium looked as if flattened by pressure, but in other respects it was perfectly healthy. This case shoAvs that uncomplicated tension from jAartial obstruction of the ureter gives rise to a gradual absorption of the pyramids, and to a condition of intemtitial inflammation of the kidney, probably varying in severity with the degree and acuteness of the obstruction. In more extreme cases than that above described, the atrophy of the cortex becomes much more advanced, till nothing may be left but a layer of kidney-substance not thicker than a shilling. The micro- scope shows also more dilatation of the tubules and flattening of the epithelium. It is an interesting fact to be noted, that in the case above described the secre- tion of urine Avas abundant, its specifle giuAuty was 1009, and it Avas free from albumen and casts. It is also evident that, if such a kidney as this were exposed to any additional source of irritation, more acute inflammation incompatible Avith life would readily be set up. ^ . 2. Acute Diffuse Interstitial Inflammation.—In this condition the kidney is soft and swollen. The capsule is opaque, and small vessels are seen ramifying liv. i: w