DIAGNOSIS OF THE CAUSE OF OBSTRUCTION. 837 or itt’o, is cliiinicteristic of clironic obstruction of tlie gTcat intestine from chronic intussusception, stricture, &c. ]n chronic peritonitis, vomiting may be delayed for many weeks. Vomiting, however, even when fajculent, is not sufficient to determine the presence of complete mechanical obstruction of the bowels, for it may occur in cases apparently of inflammatory origin in which the obstruction is re- movable by medical means. Of this 1 have seen several instances—the fmoulent vomiting being A’ery persistent, and the patient presenting all the other symptoms that are usually considered to be dependent on internal strangulation ; but eventually recovering under the use of opium, and other medical means without the necessity of operative interference. It is, there- fore, as neccssiiry to bear in mind the occasional dependence of fleculent vomiting on conditions that are removable by medical aid alone, as that it may be absent in cases in Avhich the obstruction, Avhether seated in the small or in the large intestine, can be relieved only by surgical assistance. 0. The Duration and Degree of Constipation.—The duration of the constipation does not necessarily tlnw much light upon the cause. Indeed, if patients be naturally costive, constipation may last for a considerable number of days, or even weeks, Avithout producing any A’ery serious consequences. IMost practitioners must have seen cases in Avhich constipation has continued for three or four Aveeks, without destroying the patient. Johnson mentions a case, in which it lasted during forty-five days. In these cases, however, con- stipation has usually come on gradually, being, as it Avere, an aggraA^ation of the patient’s natural condition. It is the character rather than the mere duration of the constipation that is important. The sudden occurrence of iri'emovable obstruction, both of flatus and fasces, in persons othenvise regular in their bowels, and the sense of its dependence on a fixed cause, are points of J: importance, as tending to show that it arises from an acute mechanical condi- t tiou. In acute internal strangulation, the constipation is ahvays sudden, and : is aeeompanied or speedily folloAved by other symptoms indicating obstruction. ! In chronic obstructions the complete constipation is usually merely an aggra- vation of a previous condition. AVhen the obstruction is in the small intes- : tine, the patient feels no sense of desire to deftecate. In obstruction Ioav doAAUi ■ this may be present, especially if it is due to fEecal accumulation. In intus- susception AA’heii the invaginated portion is in the colon, there is usually fre- quent straining and tenesmus. If the strangulation be complete and acute, nothing but a little blood-stained mucus Avill pass ; if it be chronic both flatus and fseccs may pass in small quantities Avith much straining. 7. The Physical Examination of the Belly.—{a). Inspection.—The chief points to lx; obseiwed are the distension of the abdomen, the form it has tiissunied, the appearanee of distended coils of intestine and peristaltic move- ments. Distension of the Ahdomen.—In acute obstruction distension quickly sets in and usually becomes very marked in a fcAV days, often so great as to interfere ^ 'with respiration and to form the most distressing symptom from Avhich the patient suffers. In chronic obstruction from stricture of the great intestine, it comes on gradualiy, and may at last become A’ery great. In intussusception t is not very marked, csj)ecially in the chronic cases. In chronic peritonitis >r disease of the intestines there is ahvays some distension, but it seldom forms I prominent symptom. •V ■9 * i »