SPECIAL ANEURISMS. 222 biceps, Avhich will be the sure guide to the artery (Fig. 484). If the Surf^eon keep too low, he may fall upon the ulnar nerve and tlie basilic vein, v4iich Fig. 483.—Line of Incision for Ligature of the Bracliial in the middle of the ami, m.n. Fig. 484.—Diagram of the parts concerned in Ligature of the Brachial in the middle of the arm. m.n. Median nerve drawn inwards; 1). biceps; v.v. Venae comites; a. brachial artery. might possibly be mistaken foi the brachial artery; by taking care to expose the fibres of the biceps in his early incision, he will avoid this error. The fascia over the median nerve must be opened thoroughly, otherwise the artery may be drawn on one side with it. The needle must be passed from the nerve. In the upper 2Mi't of ilie arm the opera- tion for ligature of the brachial is practi- cally identical with that for the terminal part of the axillary, the inner edge of the coraco-brachialis being taken as the direct- ing line and the first rallying point. At the iend of the elbow the brachial artery may be reached by making an incision about two inches in length down- wards and outwards parallel to and immediately above the median basUic vein when that vessel can be seen; when it can not, the incision must be at an angle of 45° with the line of the limb, commencing about one inch external to and half an inch above the tip of the inner condyle of the humerus, and terminating at the outer side of the tendon of the biceps. It must not be carried further outwards or the median cephalic vein will be divided. If the median basilic vein is seen, it must be ^awn downwards to avoid wounding the ulnar veins which enter it below. As soon as the integumental structures are divided, with the branches of the internal cutaneous nerve, the strong process from the tendon of the biceps to the fascia of the fore-arm, the bicipital fascia, comes into view. This must be carefully divided; the artery will be found beneath, having the biceps tendon to its outer side, the median nerve to its inner side, and a vena comes on each side. The needle must be passed from the nerve. It sometimes happens that the operator misses the artery and comes down upon the brachialis anticus which lies beneath it. This muscle is readily recognized by its surface being com- posed at this part of alternate strips of tendon and muscular fibres. If circumstances require the operation to be performed a little higher up, the edge of the biceps must be taken as the guide, as in the middle of the arm. Ligature of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries.—These arteries may be ligatured at any part of their course, but the operation is never performed above the middle third of the arm except in cases of direct wound. 4 J, .i . •A ; t I 'i 1 m