893 THE ATM EXT OF PILES—LOCAL. i In nil cases of piles, but more particularly in those arising Iroin hepatic obstruction, mild aperients are of essential service ; by removing lieculent accu- mulations, and establishing a free secretion from the intestinal surface, they tend materially to prevent congestion of the portal system. At the same time, drastic purgatives of all kinds should carefully be avoided, '^fhe most useful aperients are the electuary of senna, sulphur, and castor-oil ; one or other of which should be taken regularly twice or thrice a week at bed-time, in as small a quantity as will be sufficient to kee])the bowels free. In many cases, the con- fection of senna may advantageously be given in combination with precipitated sulphur and the bitartrate of potash, ecpial i)urts of each of these being made into a mass with twice their quantity of the confection and a little syrup ; of this electuary a dessert-spoonful may be taken every night or every second night. If there be a relaxed condition of the rectum and anus conjoined Avith the piles, as not unfrequently happens in old as well as in young people, the administration of an electuary composed of equal parts of the confections of senna and of black pepper, or of cubebs, Avill be found very useful. In flict, in all cases in Avhich the black pepper is administered, an aperient should be given from time to time, to prevent its accumulation in the large intestine. "When the liver is much obstructed, the treatment should be specially directed to the relief of this organ ; with this vieAv, a course of Plummer’s pill, followed by taraxacum, and, in relaxed constitutions, the mineral acids, will be found especially serviceable, at the same time that the bowels are kept free by gentle aperients. The habitual use of lavements, consisting either of soap and Avater or thin gruel, wiU be found adA^antageous in many cases of piles, though in some they appear to irritate, and rather to increase the disease. When the piles oceur in relaxed constitutions, the lavement should be used cold ; but AAdien the patient is of full habit of body,'" a tepid one will usually be found to agree best. In the general management of piles, it need scarcely be observed that any habits which faA’our the disease should be sedulously avoided. The Local Treatment of piles is of considerable importance. The parts should Ije regularly sponged Avith cold water, morning and evening. If there be much relaxation, and the piles be internal, benefit may result from the employment of some astringent injection, such as a very weak solution of the sulphate of iron, or of the tincture of the sesquichloride—a grain of the first or ten drops of the second, to an ounce of water ; of this about tAvo ounces may Ixi injeeted every night and left in the rectum. The application of an astringent ointment, such as the unguentum gallm co., extract of AA'itch- hazel, or the employment of the anodyne and astringent suppository already recommended for fissure of the anus, Avill be attended Avith mucli benefit. If external piles become inflamed, the patient should keep his l )cd, and leeches should be freely applied around but not upon the tumours, '^fepid lotions, poultices, and poppy fomentations, must be assiduously used, a very spare diet enjoined, and the boAvels opened by mild saline aperients. If a coagulum form in an external pile, as the result of inflammation, the tumour should be laid open Avith a lancet, and its contents either squeezed, or turned out Avith the flat end of a director. If al)scess form, it must be punctured in the usual Avay, and the part afterAvards fomented or dressed Avith boracic lint soaked in vrarm boracic lotion. 8hould strangulation of the piles take place, the pro-