xvii CONTENTS. PAGE Atony op the Bladder—Retention of Urine—Symptoms—Diagnosis—Results— Treatment—Ineontinence of Urine—Passive—Distension of Bladder with Overflow—Aetive Incontinenee—Treatment—Hysterical Retention and Incon- tinence—Painful Conditions of the Bladder 1038 1045 Tubercle op the Bladder _ Sacculi op the Bladder lOlo—1040 Tumours op the Bladder—Villous Tumour or Papilloma—Mucous .Polypi in Children — Sarcoma — Symptoms — Diagnosis — Treatment — Cancer — Treat- ment 1040 1050 H.hmaturia—Sources—Kidneys—Bladder—Prostate—Urethra—Treatment 1050—1052 Chapter LXXL—Diseases op the Prostate. Prostatitis—Symptoms—Treatment—Prostatic Abscess—Retention of Urine— Chronic Inflammation of the Prostate—Diagnosis—Treatment—Deep-seated and very Chronic Abscess 1053—1056 Chronic Enlargement op the Prostate—Characters—Simple Prostatic Tumours —Mechanical Effects on Urinary Organs—Moral Effects of Enlarged Prostate— Symptoms—Complete Retention of Urine—Diagnosis—Treatment—Prostatic Catheter—Treatment of Complete Retention—Puncture of Bladder above Pubes —Puncture through Rectum—Forcible Catheterism or Tunnelling the Pro- state 1056—1066 Other Diseases op the Prostate—Atrophy—Cancer—Tubercle—Cysts or Cavities . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1066—1067 Chapter LXXII.—Diseases of the Urethra. Urethritis—Symptoms—Treatment . . . . . . . . 1068—1069 Gonorrhoea—Cause—Character—Symptoms—Incubative Stage—Acute or Inflam- matory Stage—Chronic Stage—Gleet—Treatment of Gonorrhoea—Treatment of Gleet—Complications—Inflammation of Lymphatics of Penis—Chordee—Acute and Chronic Prostatitis—Inflammation of Neck of Bladder—Cystitis—Pyelitis and Nephritis—Retention of Urine—Haemorrhage from Urethra—Urethral or Peri-urethral Abscess—Sequences of Gonorrhoea—Warts—Stricture—Induration and Thickening—Gonorrhoeal Epididymitis—Conjunctivitis—Treatment—Scle- rotitis—Treatment—Inflammation of Nose—Gonorrhoea of Rectum—Rheumatism —Pyaemia—Cutaneous eruptions — Gonorrhoea in the Female — Diagnosis— Treatment 1069—1084 Stricture op the Urethra—Varieties—Spasmodic Stricture—Causes—Symptoms —Treatment—Congestive Stricture—Causes—Symptoms—Treatment—Organic Stricture—Age—Seat—Pathological Appearances—Amount of Constriction— Dilatation of Urethra behind Stricture—Chronic Cystitis in Bladder—Dilatation of Ureters—Symptoms—Local Signs—Examination of Patient for Sti'icture-— Treatment—Gradual Mechanical Dilatation—Introduction of Catheters—Gum- Elastic and Metal Instruments—Results of Introduction of Instruments— Accidents attending Catheterism—Nervous Symptoms, Rigors, and Urethral Fever—Treatment—Suppression of Urine—Hmmorrhage—Inflammation—False Passages—Continuous Dilatation—Caustics—Forcible Expansion or Rupture— Sliding Tubes—Expansion by Screw Mechanism—By Wedge—Division of Stricture—Internal Urethrotomy—Result—Extci-nal Urethrotomy—Opeiation for Permeable Stricture—Perineal Section—Result—Comparison of Methods of Treatment—Stricture of Urethral Orifice—Impermeable Stricture—Operations for Impermeable Stricture—Operation from Behind—Operation from Front— General Results of Treatment of Stricture 1084—1114 VOL. II, I