SURGICAL TREATMENT OF ANEURISM OF ARCH. 159 course, he not only does not diniinisli or retard the flow of blood through the aorta or lessen the quantity sent into the aneurisinal sac, but as the volume of blood ejected from the left ventricle at each systole continues unchanged, a larger blood-stream must actually be thrown into the aorta beyond the point at which the deligatcd vessel is given oft', equal in amount to what would normally have passed into the artery that has been tied. By thus increasing the volume of blood in that portion of the arch of the aorta beyond the giving oft' of the ligatured artery, an increased pressure will be thrown upon the whole interior of the vessel and of any aneurisinal sac that springs from it. Thus, the very reverse of what happens in the Hunterian or ordinary distal operation, takes place when one or more of the primary branches of the aortic arch is tied. And if a cure of an aneurism in this situation be thus effected, it must be on a new principle, different from any that has yet guided the Surgeon in the treatment of this disease. That some benefit appears to have followed these operations in a few of the cases is undoubted; but how much of this may be fairly attributed to the dhect influence of the operation appears to me to be very uncertain. For it cannot be doubted that the confinement to bed after the operation, and the more careful and regulated life that would be led by those who had been subjected to so serious a procedure, must exercise a very directly beneficial influence upon any internal aneurism; and it may fairly be a question whether an aneurisinal patient, subjected to an operation that would require confine- ment to bed or at least absolute quietude for several weeks and subsequently necessitate a quiet and carefully regulated life, would not derive as much benefit as have the patients in whose necks large arteries have been tied for the cure of aortic or even of most innominate aneurisms. The necessity for hesitation in the adoption of these operations for the cure of aortic aneurism appears to me to be strengthened by the acknowledged difticulty in effecting a correct diagnosis, in many cases, of the exact seat of the aneurism, whether it be innominate or aortic, or both, or, if aortic, from what part of the arch it springs ; and also in determining with absolute certainty whether a given intrathoracic tumour be an aneurism or not. The immediate danger of these operations, whether done for aortic or innominate aneurism, is also very considerable. A very large proportion of the patients so operated on died ivithin a fortnight, and in some cases death resulted immediately or within a few hours consequent on the disturbance of the circulation through the brain by the ligature of one of the greater arteries springing from the arch. Another fact of much importance that cannot be ignored in considering the advisability of subjecting a patient with supposed aortic aneurism to the operation of ligature of the carotid and subclavian arteries is the undoubted very slow progress and ]U’olonged duration of many of these aneurisins, and the possibility of a spontaneous cure in some. Patients with aortic aneurisms fre(|uently live for several years after the disease has been recognized. Under ]>roper constitutional treatment the sev'erity of the symptoms may be greatly mitigated, and in all probability the chances of cure would be about equal unrler the two modes of treatment—the strictly surgical and the medical— whilst that of speedy or of sudden death would he more likely to occur to those sulqccted to the operation. Home Hurgeons have tried to obtain consolidation of the tumour bv