INFLAMMATION OF BONE AFD ITS EFFECTS. 290 surface. When the sequestrum forms in the cancellous tissue, it is usually of a l)lackish-g-rey colour, and irregular or ovoid in shape. When the necrosis has been the result of an acute inflammatory process, as j osteomyelitis or infective periostitis, the bony tissue of which it is composed ■ has exactly the appearance of a corresponding piece of healthy hone macerated i after death. On the other hand, when the death of a piece of hone has been a ' complication arising during some chronic inflammatory process, the sequestrum; ‘ bears evidence of the previous disease upon it. Thus, if it result from ^ osteoplastic osteitis, it is denser than natural, if from rarefactive osteitis, as is:| commonly the case in necrosis of the cancellous tissue, it is lighter and more i porous than the normal structure, and often eaten out into irregular cavities,, j or may present patches of calcification in the cancellous spaces. Symptoms.—The symptoms of necrosis are divisible into three distinct periods. In the first they are those of the disease in consequence of which thei death of the portion of bone has taken place, being acute in acute diffuse periostitis, osteomyelitis, chronic in clu-onic periostitis and osteitis, tubercular caries, or in syphilitic cases, periostitis or subperiosteal gummata. In the second period the primary disease having ceased, the process of separation of the dead bone from the living takes place with the formation of a suppurating layer of granulation-tissue at the expense of the latter, and simultaneously new bone is formed from the periosteum to maintain the rigidity of the part when the dead part becomes loose. In the third period, the dead bone having been expellecE or removed, the final processes of repair take place by which the restoration to* the proper size and shape of the canal is effected. The particular charactei^ of the symptoms depends, however, not only on the stage and cause, but also in a great measure on the seat and the extent of the necrosis. As already stated, the sequestrum may be peripheral, central, or total, perhaps involving thaji whole thickness of the shaft. The acute diseases causing necrosis have already been sufficiently described^: but a few words are required on some of the chronic forms. When the necrosis is associated with caries, as in caries necrotica, the symptoms are those already described as occurring in that disease, pain likai that of rhemnatism, and tenderness with gradual enlargement of the affected bone. At a later period chronic suppuration takes place, and the abscess aii last points beneath the skin. When this is opened a probe will pass into thd carious cavity in which the sequestrum is lying. When the sequestrum i^ small and central, it may become enclosed with a small quantity of cheesy pu^ij in a dense wall of solid bone. The symptoms are then those of chronic abscessi Extensive necrosis may occasionally take place without the formation of a drop of pus. Cases of this kind have been described by Sir James Page^ under the name of quiet necrosis, and by Morrant Baker as necrosis without puraiion. The symptoms are those of chronic osteitis and periostitis (p. 271) and the diagnosis can be made only when, all means of treatment bavin failed, trephining of the bone is undertaken for the relief of the pain. I: Baker’s case the enlargement exactly resembled a tumour, and as spontaneous 1 fracture finally took place, there seemed no doubt as to the nature of tin > disease. The real condition was discovered only after amputation at the hip' | joint. In these cases the necrosis is due to arrest of the circulation by osteoJ plastic periostitis obliterating the Haversian canals, and the part necrosed ii t always the central portion of the compact tissue of the shaft.