550 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. the peculiar character of voice and respiration, enaldes tlie Surgeon at once to recognize the nature of his patient’s disease. Polyi)i occur chiefly in young adults after the age of puberty : hut they are not unfre(juently met with at later periods of life. Their Causes are very obscure. JMost commonly they are i-eferred either to a blow or to a prolonged catarrh, d’hey are more common in women than in men. Diagnosis.—1. Mucous nasal polypi may be distinguished from chronk thickening of the mucous memhrane covering the spongg hones, by the absence in the latter of any pedunculated growth around which a probe can be passed, by the florid red character of the thickened membrane, and by the fact that the subjects of this thickening are almost invariably strumous children. 2. In abscess of the septum, the history of the case, and the fact of the polyp never being attached to this part of the nose, will establish the diagnosis. 3. There is a peculiar malformation, consisting in a cleviatmi of the septum to one side, that may at first be a little puzzling ; but here the examination of both nostrils, and the discovery of a depression of one side of the septum corre- sponding to the projection on the other, will reveal the true nature of the case. 4. fibrous and malignant tumours of the nostril will be found to differ sufficiently in consistence and appearance from the ordinary polypi to prevent their being confounded with them in many cases ; yet in some instances much care will be required in coming to a definite opinion as to their true nature. 5. In one recorded case a meningocele ]3rojecting into the nasal cavity was mistaken for a polypus. Treatment.—The spontaneous separation and expulsion of nasal polypi is of rare occnrrence. I have, however, seen one case in which, after the assiduous use of chloride of zinc injections, a very copious discharge of large sloughy polypoid masses took place from one nostril which had been blocked up by them for many months previously, and from which • they had even descended into the pharynx. Nasal polypi may generally be most readily removed by avulsion with forceps ; occasionally, bnt rarely, when they are very large, with a broad base, and especially when they extend into the throat, they require the application of the ligature. In removing these growths by the foi'ceps, instruments of good length bnt very slender constrnction should be used,—those generally sold are too thick ; the interior of the blades shonld be properly serrated, and have a longitudinal groove, so that the root of the tumour may be tightly grasped. The patient should be made to sit on a rather low chair ; and, as there is generally a good deal of bleeding, a towel should be pinned over his clothes, and a basin placed before him to receive the blood and expectorated matters. The Surgeon then, having ascertained by the introduction of a probe, or by means of the blades of the forceps, the situation of the pedicle of the polypus, grasps this firmly and pnlls it off with a twisting movement of the hand. He proceeds in this manner, twisting off rather than pulling away polyp after polyp, until the whole of the nostril is cleared, which may be ascertained. by examination, and by directing the patient to comjncss the sound and to blow through the affected side of the nose. The bleeding, which is often very free, stops on the application of cold water. At about the end of a fortnight the patient shonld be examined again, as it not unfrcquently happens that small polypi, which had been prevented from descending into the