ANEURISM. 148 ])reseiit time. Those published by Fischer in 1870 comprised r>7 cases. Or these 28 were cured—^20 beino- by flexion alone ; and in 20 the method tailed. The various methods of employing com])ression, viz., by clamps, by weight, by flexion, and by the finger, may often be advantageously combined in the same case. AYhen the patient tires of one, another may be substituted for it ; and thus the good elfects continuously kept up with less fatigue and irritation than would otherwise be experienced. So also various modifications of these difierent methods may be practised to suit the requirements of any particular case. But for these no special directions can be given; the ingenuity of the Surgeon must supply the want in each case. COMPEESSIOX BY ACUPRESSURE of the main artery leading to the sac is a means that, I think, might in certain cases be temporarily employed with ad- vantage, and the consolidation of the aneurism thus obtained in cases where compression by the ordinary methods, digital or instrumental, is not practicable. With this view a long and strong curved needle, such as the stilet of a rectum- trochar, might be dipped deeply under the artery and vein, e.g., the common femoral, and the artery compressed against this by means of a cork and twisted suture for several hours—the vein being left free. The patient might be kept imder chloroform, if necessary. When consolidation of the contents of the sac was obtained, the compressing means might be removed. Such a method of treatment might possibly be advantageously combined in certain extreme and exceptional cases with the injection of the sac 'with the perchloride of iron, or the use of electro-puncture. Manipulation.—Sir W. Fergusson proposed to treat some aneurisms by a procedure Avhich he termed manvpulation. This consists in squeezing the aneurismal tumoin’ in such a way as to detach a portion of the coagulum within it, Avhich, being carried on Avith the ciuTent of blood into the distal end of the artery, obstructs this ; and thus, by impeding the circulation through the sac, may lead to the gradual consolidation of the tumour ; and it has also been suggested by Oliver Pemberton that the alteration of the relations of the laminated fibrine in the cavity of the aneurism may bring about a further de- position of fibrine on the displaced laminae. This procedure has as yet been employed to too limited an extent to enable us to form an estimate of its value, and can scarcely be considered, nor is it intended to be, of very general appli- cation. To aneurisms, hoAvever, that are not amenable to ordinary surgical treatment, and that must necessarily prove fiital if left, as those situated at the root of the neck, more particularly of the subclavian artery, it might possibly he advantageously applied. It is scarcely necessary, hoAA^ever, to point out the obvious danger of rupture of the sac, or of the diflFusion of the aneurism from the weakening of its Avails by the separation of the coagulum, to make Surgeons adopt due caution in carrying out this method of treatment. There is another danger also especially attendant on this procedure, Avhen applied to aneurisms about the neck ; viz., that the detached coagulum may be carried by the circulation into the cerebral arteries, and by obstructing them occasion the same kind of cerebral disturbance that occurs when these vessels become occluded by fibrinous plugs—embola. That this danger is a real and a great one, is CAudent from the fact that, in some cases in Avhich manipulation of subclavian and carotid aneurisms has been tried, the patient has been suddenly seized Avith syncope and hemiplegia. Tealc has successfully conjoined manipu-