DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. I ro8 2. To cut carefully in the median line ; where, as Syme has observed, a kind of septum exists even in the deeper structures of the perinseum, and where there can be no danger whatever of dividing any artery of magnitude, Avhich might happen if any lateral deviation of the knife took place.. The only vessel, indeed, which is at all endangered, is the artery of the bulb ; and this will of course be avoided by carefully keeping in the raphe. 3. To enter the point of the knife behind the stricture, and to divide that by cutting forwards in the groove of the staff. 4. Much difficulty has occasionally arisen in the introduction of the catheter into the bladder after the dmsion of the stricture. This may be avoided by passing a broad director, Avith the groove tuimed up, into the posterior part of the urethra after the stricture has been cut, but before the staff is withdraAvu. As the catheter is passed down the canal, its point AA'ill infallibly be guided by this onAvards into the bladder. Where there are more strictures than one, the division of the deej>est is usually alone necessary ; the others may be dilated. Result.—The result of the perineal section, so far as the life of the patient is concerned, is usually satisfactory; yet cases haA'e not unfrequently occuiTed in which a fatal termination has been the consequence, and there is every reason to believe that such cases have been more numerous than the advocates of this operation have been willing to admit. As yet, there are no trustAvorthy statistics before the profession that Avould enable us to speak positively as to the percentage of deaths after this operation. Occasionally, an incm-able fistulous opening has been left in the perinmnm ; and not unfrequently accidents of a grave though not fatal character, such as inflammatory oedema of the scrotum, abscess in perinseo, &c., haA'e been found to supervene. The Avhole value of urethrotomy Avill at last depend on the liability of the stricture to return after its division ; and this point has not as yet been by any means satisfactorily determined. The ultimate results of the cases in which it has been practised have not as yet been fully laid before the profession ; and, until this has been done, we cannot consider the utility of the operation as established, except as a means of temporary relief in cases of the kind just mentioned. Much will certainly depend upon keeping up dilatation of the urethra for some months after the diAusion of the stricture, a catheter of full size being passed once in a week or ten days. If this precaution be neglected, relapse Avill certainly occur ; and CAmn Avhen it is scrupulously attended to, they are, I believe, by no means unft-equent. Against external urethrotomy it has been argued that, like a wound, the incision into the urethra might occasion a cicatrix which Avould contract, and thus eventually tend still further to lessen the diameter of the canal. But post mortem examination of patients who have died some years after this operation had been performed has shown that the idea is groundless, the cicatrix being linear and scarcely perceptible. In fact, there is a great difference in the result, betAveen cases in Avhich the urethra has been divided transA'ersely and those in AA'hich it has been incised longitudinally. In the first instance, a dense and contractile cicatricial mass is formed ; in the second case, a linear and scarcely perceptible scar. Sul)culamous Urethrotomy is a modification of the jAreceding operation. It consists in dividing the stricture on a g’ooved staff’ by means of a fine narroAV- bladed tenotome. After this has been done a full-sized catheter is tied in foi from twenty-four to forty-eight hours. It is adapted only to ring-shaped