1162 DJS^JASA'S OF THE TESTIS AND OOllD. the testis Avithout first ascertaining, Ijy an incision into its substance, that it is not a haiinatoccle. Treatment.—This must vary with the size and duration of the tumour. When it is small and recent, and has fluid contents, the Surgeon may try the- effect of tapping it; it is possible that, after the evacuation of the blood, closure and obliteration of the tunica A^aginalis will take place. This happened in a case under my care, in which, though the disease had existed for three- years, a comjDlete cure followed the operation of tapping. Such simple treat- ment as this, however, cannot be depended upon; and it usually becomes necessary to lay the sac open, treat the wound antiseptically, and to cause it to- contract and to granulate from the bottom, Avhen the obliteration of the cavity of the tunica vaginalis necessarily results. If the tumour Avere of very large size, and the tunica vaginalis much thickened, hardened, and parchment-like, Avith adherent and laminated fibrine, castration might possibly bo required. In the instance tO' Avhich I have already referred, and which is repre- sented in Fig. Duf), this Avas rendered necessary in consequence of these conditions, and Avas success- fully done. Haeniatocele of the Spermatic Cord has been obseiwed by Pott, Curling, Bowman, and others ; it is a rare disease, and usually occurs in the form of tumour of considerable magnitude, suddenly arising after a strain or some violent exertion, gmng rise to rupture of a A^aricose spermatic vein. It com- Fig. 966.—Hfematoceie with Thick- meiices in the iiiguinal canal, and'thence, extends herent Fibi-in. doAviiwards along the course of the cord, through the abdominal ring into the scrotum ; but it does not surround or implicate the testis, which can be felt free and movable at its loAvest j)art. On incising such a tumour as this, a quantity of blood, partly fluid and partly coagulated, has been found, sometimes contained in a cavity, occasioned by the laceration and separation of the tissues of the cord and scrotum. The most remarkable case of this kind on record is one related by Bowman, in which the tumour, after existing for ten years, had attained so enormous a size, that it reached to the patella, and was so heaA'y as to require- both hands and a considerable effort to raise it from its bed. In this case, death appears to have resulted from decomposition of the contents of the tumour. iJiagnosis.—In its early stages, hiumatocele of the cord would run consider- able risk of being confounded AAutli an mejvinat hernia. The more diflused character of the SAvelling, liOAA^eAm’, its regular feel, its semi-fluctuating sen- sation, and the impossibility of reduction, might enable the diagnosis to be made (p. 800, Vol. II.). IlEematocele of the cord may ahvays be distinguished from an accumulation of Mood in the tunka vaginalis, by the testicle not being- implicated in the former case, but surrounded by the fluid in the latter instance. The 'Treatment of this disease must in the earlier stages be of a palliatiA'e kind ; consisting in rest, support of the tumour, and the application of CA'apo- rating lotions. Care should be taken not to incise it at this period, lest the loss of blood from the ruptured vein, after the evacuation of the contents of