774 HERNIA. Local Ei-tkcts of STRANOUiiATiON.—The oluuig-es induced in the stram/u- latcd parts result from tlie pressure of the stricture, and the coiisecjuent iutei-- ference witli the circulation through them. If the strangulation he acute that portion of iiitcstiuc ’which lies immediately under the stricture will be seen to be nipped or marked by a deep sulcus, occasioned partly l)y the pressure to which it has been subjected, and partly by the swelling of the congested tissues beyond it. The changes that take place in the protruded intestine rapidly increase in pi-oportion to the duration of the strangulation. The tightness of the stricture and the acuteness of the strangulation ha^'e, how- ever, even more to do with these changes than its duration. I have seen the bowel so tightly nipped that, though the strangulation had existed only eic^ht hours when the operation was performed, the vitality was lost in the part con- stricted (Fig. 791); and in other cases I have knowii the part to recoMi- although strangulation had lasted for five or six days. The first change that takes place in the jDrotruded parts in the case of strangulated hernia is their congestion. This is purely mechanical, and arises from the fact that at first the pressure is seldom sufficient to arrest the arterial flow, while it seriously impedes that through the veins. As a conse- quence of this the gut gradually swells, and at last the arterial flow is arrested also. The gut becomes at first of a claret, maroiie, or purplish-bro’wn colour, sometimes ecchymosed on the surface, with thickening and stiffening of its coats owing to effusion into their substance. At the same time the sac Ije- oomes distended with fluid poured out from the over-distended vessels before the circulation is completely arrested. The vessels of any omentum that may be present in the sac will be similarly distended. The interference with the circulation necessarily leads to a progressive diminution of vitality, whicli speedily terminates in gangrene of the strangled gut. The phenomena of inflammation cannot manifest themselves after the circulation is aiTested. In fact, in all cases of severe and rapid strangulatiou_ they are entirely wanting, the surface of the gut being free from lymph, and the fluid in the sac per- fectly clear though darkly stained with blood. In the cases of slow strangu- lation, on the other hand, in which the gut is so loosely held that circulation continues, although all passage of faeces is arrested, the signs of inflammation are commonly met with. In these cases the bowel is dark in colom’, though not so dark as in more acute strangulation, and is coated here and there with flakes of lymph, which give it a rough and villous look ; the omentum has a somewhat rosy tinge, and there is usually a good deal of pale reddish fluid containing flakes of lymph in the sac. It is theoretically possible that in some cases the strangulation may be so complete and sudden that the arterial and venous flow would be simultaneously arrested. In such a case the gut would Ije pale and the sac free from fluid. Such a condition, if it does occur, is of infinite rarity. When gangrene occurs, the bowel loses its lustre and polisli, becoming of an ashy-grey, or dull-black colour, soft and somewhat lacerable, so that its coats readily separate from one another; the serous membrane especially peeling off*. The omentum is dark purplish, or of a kind of dull yellowish-grey ; and there is usually a considerable quantity of dark turbid serum in the sac, the whole contents of which are more or less offensiA'e. ilosfc usually, when gangrene occurs in a strangulated rupture, inflammation of the sac and its coverings takes iDlace, accompanied, after a time, by a reddish-blue or congested appearance and some tenderness on pressure ; and, if the part l>c