1200 1)ISJ<:ASES of the female genital organs. operators, but appears to possess little, if any, advantage over the more usual method, even in cases where the condition of the pedicle is most favourable for its employment. The Jcist, but by no means the least important, of the factors mentioned as having- of late years influenced the mortality after ovariotomy, is the applica- tion of the antiseptic system to abdominal surgery. Altliough the utmost importance had for long been attached by all operators to the emjfloyment ol’ the strictest hygienic measures both during and after the performance of ovariotomy, it is only Avithin the last five or six years that the antiseptic treat- ment has been systematically applied to operations of this nature. The extent to Avhich it is necessary to carry out so-called strict Listerism, may still, possibly, be a matter for discussion, but of the now Avell-established value of antiseptics in these operations, as shown by published results, no doubt can be entertained. The advocates for the use of the strictest antiseptic precautions in ovariotomy, recommend their employment on the following grounds, viz. ; that, since their introduction, the rate of mortality has diminished; the after- treatment is simplified ; recovery is more rapid and complete ; and di’ainage can be dispensed Avith, thus obviating the liability to ventral hernia as a result of the operation. Those who object to the use of antiseptics, base their practice on the fol- loAving statements : that they are unnecessary—the diminution in the rate of mortality being due to circumstances other than the employment of anti- septics, such as increased personal experience, the diminution in the number of cases Avhich have been tapped before operation, the general adoption of improved methods of hygiene and cleanliness, and the employment during the operation of special means for cleansing the peritoneal cavity. The true estimate of the relative A’alue of these conflicting statements may be safely left to time ; but meanwhile the fact remains, that the em- ployment of antiseptics in abdominal surgery is rapidly gaining ground, as the beneficial effects of the method are becoming more Avidely recognized. In the days when the results of ovariotomy Avere much less good than they noAV are, the opinion generally held was in faA'our of postponing any surgical interference so long as the patient Avas tolerably free from pain and able to move about. Of late years, howeA^er, the increasing success of the operation, together with the fuller recognition of the serious risks entailed by delay in such cases, have led to the belief that an ovarian tumour should be removed so soon as its nature and connections can be clearly ascertained, and its presence is beginning in any Avay to affect the patient’s Avell-being. Preparation of the Patient.—Xo special medical treatment is as a rule necessary, beyond attending to the state of the boAvels. In the case, hoAV- ever, of a very large tumour of long standing, Avdien the urine is scanty and highly concentrated, depositing quantities of mixed urates, benefit will be deriA^ed from the administration of full doses of citrate of ]Aotash or lithia during the forty-eight hours preceding operation, combined Avith the employ- ment of a hot bath, should the skin be habitually dry and disinclined to act. Finally, a full dose of castor-oil or some equivalent aperient should bo giA'eu the evening before, to be folloAved by an enema adniinistcrcd on the morning of the operation, to ensure thorough evacuation of the loAver l)OAvel. The room selected for the operation and for subsequent occupation by the