258 INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. DISEASES OP THE ORGANS OP SUPPORT AND MOTION. CHAPTER XLVI. INFLAMMATION OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. GENERAL PATHOLOGY OP INFLAMMATORY AFFECTIONS OP BONE; Before proceeding to consider the diseases of bone as they present them- o selves to the practical Surgeon, it will be most convenient to describe the i different pathological effects of inflammation on the separate structures of k which a bone is composed, viz,, the periosteum, the medulla and the osseous ti tissue. The necessity for this arises from the fact that inflammatory aflec- li tions are rarely limited to one of these structures. Thus inflammation com- I mencing in the periosteum, if it last for any length of time, always produces i| more or less marked changes in the compact tissue beneath, and the cancellous I tissue is never affected without the periosteum sooner or later taking part in the morbid process. I propose, therefore, to describe briefly the various effects I of inflammation as they manifest themselves in the different structures of which | a bone is composed, attaching as far as possible a definite name to each by I which it can be referred to in the clinical description of the diseases as they | occur in practice. I The process of inflammation in bone is essentially the same as in all other I tissues—such modifications as exist being due solely to the structure of the | affected part. In the Chapter on Inflammation it was pointed out that in the I more acute or destructive processes of inflammation the inflamed tissue be- I comes infiltrated with new cells, before which the original structures disappear. I In the soft parts of a bone, the medulla and periosteum, this takes place I exactly as in other tissues, but in compact bone this process is restricted and ! 1 delayed by the density of the structure. The new tissue undergoes the same . changes in bone as elsewhere, it may soften and break down into pus, it may ' undergo fatty degeneration and caseation, or it may undergo development, the product being as a rule osseous, instead of fibrous tissue, as in the soft parts. The chronic productive inflammatory processes which in the soft parts lead to fibroid induration or overgrowth of the connective tissue, when affecting a bone lead to the formation of new osseous tissue, but the process is essentially the same. As in other parts the inflammation may end in death of the > affected tissue. Acute infective inflammations also are met with, and the : chronic processes associated with the development of tubercle are common. All these inflammations are identical in character with those already described i as affecting the soft parts, such differences in detail as exist being due solely to i the physical peculiarities of the tissue implicated.