XV CONTENTS. Stbictitre ; Simple. Syphilitic, and Malignant—Simple or Fibrous—Symptoms Proi^ress—Treatment—Syphilitic Stricture of Large Intestine—Cancer and itlalignant Stricture—Symptoms—Treatment—Cancer of Anus—Sarcomatii of Uectiim—Papillomata—Polypi _ • • liKCTAL FiSTUL^Ti—llccto-vcsical Fistula—Treatment—Kntcro-vaginal 1 istula Recto-vaginal Fistula—Treatment—Entcro-vcsical Fistula . . . 872—S7."> Flceu and Fissure of the Anus—Symptoms—Causes—Treatment—Spasmodic Conti-action of Sphincter Ani—Treatment—Atony of Rectum—Treatment 87i>—87S Auscess and Fistula—Acute Ischio-rcctal Abscess-Chronic Abscess—Treatment— Anal Abscess—Fistula in Ano—Extent—Varieties-Complete—Incomplete or UlimI—Operation for Fistula in Ano 878—88-1 IL-emorrhoids or Piles—Varieties—Predisposing Causes—Exciting Causes— Structure—External Hicmorrhoids—Symptoms—Internal Piles—Ijongitudinal or Fleshy—Globular—Symptoms—Fliemorrhage—Complications—Terminations Subsidence—Coagulation—Suppuration—Sphacelus—Diagnosis—Of Hasmor- rhoidal Tumours—Of Hemorrhoidal Flux—Treatment—Constitutional—Local— Operation—Excision—Ligature—Smith’s Operation—Galvanic Ecrascur—Crush- ing—Caustics—Dangers attending Operations for Piles—Moist Condition of Skin around Anus—Pniritus Ani 88-1—Si»8 Prolapsus Ani—Causes—Diagnosis—Treatment—Palliative—Curative—Ligature— Prolapsus of the Rectum—Causes—Treatment—Protrusion of an Ovarian Cvst 898—902 C'hapter LXYI.—Secondary Diseases of the Urinary Organs arisinij FROM Surgical Causes.—Py.rmia and Septiclemia in Urinary Diseases. Morbid C!onditions of the Bladder—Diseased Conditions of the Ureters and Pelvis of the Kidney—Morbid Conditions of the Kidneys—Results of Pressure—Acute Diffuse Intcretitial Inflammation—Acute Interstitial Nephritis with Scattered Abscesses—Effects of Former Attacks from which the Patient has Recovered— Causes of Interstitial Inflammation—Tension—Reflex Irritation of Kidney— Septic Matter in Pelvis of Kidney—Symptoms of Kidney-Disease in Surgical Affections of Genito-Urinary Organs—Urethnal Fever or Uraemic Fever— Prognosis—Treatment—Pyaemia and Septicaemia in Diseases of the Urinary Organs . 903—917 Chapter LXVII.—Surgical Operations on the Kidney. Stone in the Kidney—Symptoms—Treatment—Calculous Pyelitis—Tubercular or Scrofulous Kidney — Symptoms—Pj'onephrosis—Hydronephrosis—Treatment— Tumours—Carcinoma and Sarcoma—Diagnosis of Renal Tumours—Treatment of Carcinoma or Sarcoma—Fistulous Communications—Floating Kidney . 918—921 Operations on the Kidney" — Exploration — Aspiration — Nephrolitliotomy — Nephrotomy—Nephrectomy—Abdominal Nephrectomy—Results . . 921—92!) Chapter LXViri.—Urinary Caiaulus and Lithotomy. Uri.vary Deposits and Calculi—Uric or Tflthic Acid Deposits—Calculi—Trc.at- ment—Deposits of Oxalate of Lime—Calculi—Treatment—Phosphatic Deposits —Varieties of Phosphates—Calculi—Treatment—(Cystine—Xanthine or Xanthic Oxide—Carbonate of Lime—Chemical Examination JIJJO p;}-, 1 r