DISEASES OF VEINS. 64 mended. A hare-lip pin is passed under the vein, and a twisted suture applied over it. Two insulated needles are then passed into the dilated vein below the pin, and a galvanic current of sufficient strength passed through them. The vein soon becomes filled with clot, and hard. After a few hours, when the danger of embolism is past, the pin may be removed. Tliis plan has l^een tried at University College Hospital, but seemed to present no special advan- tages. 4. Injection of the varic hj a few drops of a solution of the p)crchloride of iron, as recommended by Pravaz, is a very effectual method of procuring coagulation of the contained blood and consolidation of the varix, more particularly if it be very large and sacculated. In employing this means, it is essential to compress the vein by means of a tourniquet applied above the varix, which must not be removed till half an hour at least after the operation, for fear of embolism ; the solution is then to be injected in very small quantity—not more than three or four drops—by means of the syringe (Fig. 425) into the dilated veins. Coagulation of the blood immediately takes place. The patient must be confined to his bed for a few days with the limb raised, and a bandage should be applied before he is allowed to walk about. This mode of treatment is very effectual in large varix, and may in such cases be advantageously , conjoined with the next method—the pins being used under the venous trunks, 1 and the solution introduced into the dilated masses of the varix. But it is '' not devoid of danger : accidents, such as local suppuration and sloughing, ' pyemic symptoms, and even fatal embolism, have followed its use. 5. The most convenient and safest way of obliterating the vein in my opinion, and that which I always employ, consists in compressing the vessel at several points, by passing a hare-lip pin underneath it, laying a piece of wax-bougie over it, and then applying the twisted suture around the pin and over the bougie (Fig. 424). In this way the vessel gradually ulcerates by the pressure that is exercised upon it, and the presence of the bougie prevents the ligature from injuring the skin. In performing this operation, care must be taken that the vein be not transfixed, but that the pin be pushed, or rather dipped under- neath it; the ligature should not be too thin, and must be applied tightly over the bougie ; several pins, as many as eight or ten, if necessary, should be intro- duced along the course of the same vessel, at distances of about three-quarters of an inch from one another (Fig. 424) ; those highest up should be put in Fig. 424.—Application of Hare-lip Pins to Varicose Veins.