563 TREATMENT OF PAROTID TUMOURS. !j region, springing from the hones or fiiscim. They grow rapidly and implicate tj the surrounding parts, and as a rule force their way into the pharynx. The distinction between these and the true cancers cannot always be made during i life. Diagnosis.—It is of great importance to effect the diagnosis between the non-malignant and the malignant varieties of tumours in the parotid region. In the simple tumours there is always mobility ; and, although the attach- i ments may be deep, the skin is not involved to any extent. The outline of ! tlie mass is usually well defined, square, and somewhat lobulated. The pro- S ‘ gi-ess of the growth is very slow, often occupying many ycai-s before it attains f any considerable bulk, as in the annexed cuts (Figs. 668, 669), representing a I; tumour of sixteen years’ standing which I excised. In the malignant groivtlis there is no mobility, but the mass is solidly fixed ; its outline is ill-defined, the skin soon assumes a reddish purple colour, is brawny, and presents the ! usual characters indicative of subjacent malignant action. When these tumoui-s are encephalaid, they grow with considerable rapidity, feel soft and pulpy, and are rounded and ill-defined in their outline, especially under the ear and by the ramus of the jaw. The lymphatic gland, which lies just in front of the neck of the lower jaw, 1. and those superficial to the parotid, when chronically enlarged, may often ■ closely resemble a simple parotid tumom\ Their mobility is usually less than that of the simple parotid tumour, and they are slightly tender when pressed upon, and it is very seldom that a single gland is alfected. Occasionally, however, it may be impossible to make a certain diagnosis till the tumour is : removed. Treatment.—In the treatment of these tumoiu’s, extirpation is necessarily r the only course that can be adopted ; and this should certainly not be attempted if the disease be malignant; for, as it would be impossible to !• remove its deeper attachments, the growth to a certainty would speedily retm-n. 1 Even if the disease be of a simple character, care must be taken that every 1 lobule and prolongation be extirpated ; for, if any be left, however small, it v\7ill without doubt become the nucleus of a new tumour. In removing ftumours in this situation, the superficial incisions should be free, and either longitudinal or crucial, so that the whole mass may be fairly exposed. It is rnot wise to remove integument, however redundant this may appear to be, r.onless it have undergone infiltration, incorporation with the tumour, or change ■of structure ; and even then as little as possible should be taken away. The 'fibrous or aponeurotic investments of the tumour must bo fairly opened, and the edge of the knife must then be directed against it, and the dissection can'ied on from below upwards, or from behind forwards, so that one division ■of the blood-vessels supplying it may be sufficient. After the tumour has •Ijeen well loosened by the division of investing fascim and structures (and it is surjuising how movable it often becomes after this has been done, though it ! may previoiLsly appear to have incorporated somewhat solidly with the sub- jacent tissues) it should be taken hold of by the hand or a largo double hook, ind drawn well forwards whilst the deep dissection is being carried on. In prosecuting this, the Surgeon must particularly guard against wounding the :emporo-maxillai7 artery and the facial nerve, which are especially exposed to injury. In some cases the division of these cannot be avoided, as they are ncoiqjoratcd iu the mass that is undergoing removal. The hemorrhage will 002