447 PATHOLOGY OF IIIP-JOINT DISEASE. often the upper margin of the acetabulum being at the same time destroyed, it slips out on to the dorsum ilii (Fig. 580). c. A fungous mass may sprout up from the bottom of the cavity, and thus tend to push the bone out of it ; and, after it has been so extruded, this growth will completely fill the acetabulum. The occurrence of dislocation is, in the great majority of cases, preceded by the fonnation of abscess in and around the joint; but in some instances it happens in consequence apparently of softening of the ligaments, the head of the bone being thrown out of the acetabulum without the supervention of any sign of suppuration. In these cases a fiilse joint may be formed upon the dorsum ilii, where the bone lodges. When it is lying in a suppurating cavity it will always be found to be in a carious state, and then no attempt, or at most an imperfect one, is made at the construction of an articulation around it. Dislocation may take place in any variety of the disease, but it is most common in the femoral, in which the head of the thigh-bone is more or less destroyed. In these cases it is usual to find the upper and posterior margin of the acetabulum with which the diseased head has been in contact, exten- sively destroyed, so that the ca^dty is enlarged in this direction. In this way the anterior and lower part of the cavity is relieved from the friction of the diseased head of the femur, and is frequently found to be undergoing repair, the surface which has been denuded of cartilage being covered with healthy granulation-tissue. In macerated specimens of this kind the upper part of the acetabulum, against which the diseased head of the femur has been lying, shows the porous spongy appearance indicative of rarefying osteitis, while the lower part, which has been relieved by displacement of the femur upwards, shows evident signs of repair, new bone having been formed closing up the cancellous spaces, and often rendering the structure more dense than natural. These appearances show that the acetabulum when affected secondarily, will readily repair in many cases if relieved from the irritation of the friction of the diseased head of the femur against it. When the acetabulum is primarily affected, or extensively destroyed secondarily, the head of the femur is in some cases dislocated on to the dorsum ilii; in other instances it is not thrown out of the cotyloid cavity, but this becomes at last perforated, and may allow the head of the bone to slip into the pelvis. 7. Ankylosis may occur either with or without previous suppuration. If the joint have suppurated and the head of the bone be thrown on to the dorsum ilii, a false joint may eventually foim, or osseous ankylosis in a more or less faulty position take place. If the head of the bone continue in the acetabulum without suppuration, osseous anlcylosis may ensue with but little shortening of the limb. Pathology and Symptoms of the Various Forms of Hip-disease.— It is not often that the opportunity presents itself of examining a hip-joint in the earlier stages of coxalgia before complete disorganization of the joint has taken place. It is impossible therefore to define with certainty the exact starting point of the disease in every case. There is no reason to donbt that the hip-joint is liable to all the various forms of destructive inflammation already described as occun-ing in other joints. Thus we meet with Acute Arthritis (p. arising in some cases apparently from exposure to cold, in others from acute osteomyelitis and necrosis of the epiphysis of the head, in others, from extension of suppuration outside the joint into the cavity of the articulation, and in rare cases from general blood-poisoning, as in pymniia or