DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. mo or the forcible expansion or rupture of the stricture, is the best method of treatment; tlie perineal section being- too severe and dangerous, whilst simple dilatation is too feeble a means of treatment. Stricture of the Urethral Orifice is usually the consequence of destruc- tion of tissue by a chancre. It is apt to be extremely tight, and has a great tendency to relapse. A tight stricture is not uncommonly met with also within an inch of the orifice as the consequence of an intra-urethral chanci-e, and less commonly of gonorrhoea. These strictures may be treated by gradual dilatation by means of short nail-headed styles of graduated sizes, but this is usually tedious and inefficient. Fig. 936.—Civiale’s Urethrotome for Strictm-e of the Orifice, modified. Division by Civiale’s instrument, introduced shut, and cutting as it is with- drawn (Fig. 936), or in the absence of this, by a common probe-pointed bistoury, will be found the only really advantageous treatment. It is prac- tically free from danger, as rigors and other constitutional disturbance, scarcely ever follow operations on the anterior extremity of the urethra. Impermeable Stricture.—In order to perform the perineal section, the stricture must be pervious to a grooved staff, however small this may be ; and this, it might be supposed, would limit materially the cases in which the opera- tion can be performed. But complete obliteration of the urethra cannot take place except as the result of sloughing, usually from injury ; indeed “imper- meable ” strictures, though frequently spoken of, are very rarely met with. Syme, indeed, denied their existence, and stated that, if urine can escape through a stricture, a bougie can be introduced. A Surgeon may often be foiled in his first attempts in passing an instrument through a vei-y tight stricture. But I believe that, with patience, by attention to constitutional treatment, so as to lessen urethral irritation, and especially by the administra- tion of chloroform, he will usually at last succeed in making an instrument of some kind pass through the very worst strictures. In the first case in which I performed the perineal section, almost all the urine had for twelve years been discharged through fistulous openings in the perinmum and scrotmn ; and the principal portion escaped through a large hole on the inside of the left thigh, only a few drops occasionally pa.ssing out by the lips of the urethra, ho instrument had been passed for four yeai-s, though repeated attempts had been made by different Surgeons. Being foiled in introducing a catheter into the bladder the first time I tried, I kept the patient in the Hospital for two or