592 DISEASES OF THE JAWS AiYD THEIR APPENDAGES. part of the two pterygoid plates, tlie articulation between the superior maxillary and the palate bone, and between the tuberosity of the ]jalate bone and the pterygoid plates being too firm to yield. The bone being now completely separated from its osseous attachments, the Surgeon seizes it in the “ lion forceps ” with his left hand and wrenches it downwards and outwards, while he cuts away the soft palate from its attachment to the bone, care being taken, not to cut it through vertically. It at this stage the superior maxillary nerve is seen it must be cut through. The parts of the pterygoid muscles attached to the portions of the pterygoid plates that are removed can be torn through with a little help from the scalpel or scissors. If the bone is too much broken up by the tumour to be held by the lion-forceps, it can usually be drawn forwards by the fingers. As soon as the bone comes out, a dry sponge must be forced into the cavity to arrest haemorrhage, while the mouth and fauces are cleared of blood, and the patient, who at this stage has often partly regained consciousness, is again brought under the influence of the anaesthetic. Haemorrhage from the terminal branches of the internal maxillary must then be arrested by the actual cautery, or, if possible, by ligature. lYhen all bleeding has ceased, the whole cavity must be carefully examined, and any remaining fragments of the growth must be removed either with scissors or with Paquelin’s cautery. If the whole growth is undoubtedly removed, the cavity is then touched with a solution of chloride of zinc (gr. 40 to 3]'), care being taken that none of the fluid passes down the throat. It should then be sprinkled with iodoform in crystals, and the cheek flap laid down. If there is any doubt about the complete removal of the growth. Heath recommends that some strips of lint spread with chloride of zinc paste should be laid in the cavity. Some pieces of dry lint may be placed over these to prevent any of the paste finding its way into the throat. The flap pnust be retained in situ by strong metallic sutures or hare-lip pins through the lij), and by finer sutures of catgut, horse-hair, or silk, along the other lines of incision. However much the skin may have been stretched and thinned, none should be removed unless it has been actually incorporated in, or infiltrated by the tumoiu\ The after- treatment consists in syringing the cavity out daily with Condy’s fiuid and water, and sprinkling the raw surface with a little iodoform by means of a camel’s hair pencil. There is nothing so efficient as iodoform in the preven- tion of decomposition in these cases, and by its use the danger of septic poisoning or septic pneumonia is gveatly diminished. After cicatrization is complete, the patient is fitted with a proper obturator, and the deformity resulting is far less than might have been anticipated. Results.—The result of operations for the removal of the upper jaw is very satisfactory, so far as the operation itself is concerned. Though most serious, the operation is not very dangerous. Of 17 consecutive cases collected by Hutchinson as having been practised in the London Hospitals, it was successful in 14 ; and of 16 cases (10 of total and 6 of partial removal) done by Esmarch, 13 were successful (viz., 8 of the former and 5 of the latter). So far as recur- rence of the disease is concerned, all will depend on the nature of the tumour, and the extent of the operation. If the disease be malignant or even myeloid, speedy recuiTence will certainly ensue if partial excision or scooping be prac- tised. Nothing, indeed, can be more disastrous than the result of partial operations in these cases. Even though the whole maxilla be excised, the incisions being carried wide of the disease, recurrence is the almost invariable