928 SURGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. cmicleated Avith tlie fingers of one liantl till it remains attached merely by its pedicle. In doing this care must be taken to keep close to the gland lest the peritoneum or colon be torn. The tumour may now be draAvn forwards in the Avonnd, and if the ureter can be isolated, this should be done and a double ligature passed round it. It may then be divided betweeu the ligatures, its end being touched as it is cut Avith a solution of chloride of zinc lest septic matter pass from it into the Avound. In cases of pyonephrosis it is usually inp^ossible to separate the ureter from the rest of the pedicle. A strong car- bolizcd silk ligature is uoav passed through the pedicle, and it is tied in two pieces. If this be done carefully Avith a blunt aneurism-needle there is no fear of puncturing the renal vein. The pedicle at this stage must not be dragged on too forcibly, first, for fear of tearing it, and secondly, lest on the right side the ligature be applied too close to the vena cava. The pedicle having been securely tied, the kidney is cut off Avith a pair of scissors, not too close to the ligature. All bleeding having been arrested, the ligatures are cut short and the Avound is closed, a large drainage-tube being inserted, and the case treated as an ordinary wound in any other part of the body by some form of antiseptic dressing. The chief dangers during the operation are hmmor- ^ rhage from the substance of the kidney in the case of a tumour, Avound of the peritoneum, and wound of the colon in cases of pyonephrosis. These are avoided by keeping outside the capsule m the former case, and inside in the latter. The shock of the operation is great and often directly fatal. ■ Abdominal Nephrectomy is performed with all the precautions already H laid doAvn as being necessary in abdominal operations (p. 756). The incision fl noAV adopted in all cases is that recommended by Langenbeck in the linea ■ semilunaris. It has the great advantage over the median section of more H directly exposing the pedicle, and of enabling the intestines to be held more ■ readily on one side during the operation. When the surface of the tmnour is I exposed, the peritoneum external to the colon must be carefully divided, all I bleeding being immediately arrested by forci-pressure forceps. The pedicle is I then carefully exposed and the vessels ligatured, either separately or in the I same way as in the lumbar operation. The ureter is then divided between two I ligatures, care being taken that while so doing none of its contents pass into I the abdominal cavity. The divided ends must be immediately disinfected with I chloride of zinc (40 gr. to 3).). The enucleation of the tumour can then be U completed. Banvell has recommended that an aperture for the drainage tube ■ should be now made in the loin, and in cases in which the raw surface left D after the removal of the tumour is very large it would undoubtedly be a wise i| precaution. The wound is closed in the ordinary way. The operation should ■ be performed with all antiseptic precautions. ffl In the after-treatment of nephrectomy the patient must be covered up as j| warmly as possible to promote the action of the skin. Vomiting is almost H always a troublesome symptom, and must be relieA’ed by ice. Opium must be B used sparingly, as the opposite kidney often becomes congested and someAvhat B disturbed in its functions for a fcAV days. 1 B The results of Nephrectomy were at first very discouraging, for out of theH first 12 cases in Avhich the operation Avas done but 2 recoA'ered. But increjisedll experience in the operation, a more just appreciation of its difficulties, and,II above all, the great advances in abdominal surgery generally, have during thcli last ten years turned the balance in favour of the operation, so that thell