5°3 DEFORMITIES OF THE HAND AND ARM. towards which the head is deflected. The maxillary level acts agains le lower jaw on the opposite side—that which is turned up. By means of a ratchet-joint, the neck-lever, the action of w^hich is vertical, turns the head from the side to which it is deflected, Avhilst the maxillary lever, acting horizontally, rotates the head on its axis. By the combined action of these two forces the head is restored to its vertical position, and the chin replaced in the mesial line. In this way the curvature of the cervical vertebne may gradually be corrected ; should it, however, have existed for a considerable time, it may have assumed a permanent character, and a twist in the neck will continue for life. If the operation be not delayed until too late in life, the features will gradually regain their symmetry. The exposure and division of the spinal accessory nerve has been practised, but not, I believe, with any benefit. When wuy-neck is secondary to disease of the cervical vertebrm, little can be done beyond maintaining the spinal colmmi in as steady and fixed a position as possible, by means of mechanical support (vide Fig. 331, Yol. I.). In those cases in which the wiy-neck appears to be dependent rather on paralysis of one sterno- mastoid, than on spasm of the other, electricity, and the application of strychnine to a blistered surface over the muscle, will be foimd most useful. Fig. 621.—Bigg’s Apparatus for Wry-neck. DEFOEMITIES OP THE AEM AND HAND Contraction of the Arm is not of very common occurrence, except as the result of bums. I have, however, met with four distinct forms of contraction of the forearm. 1. There may be ankylosis of the elbow-joint, the forearm being bent at a right angle with the arm, the result of disease of or around the articulation. If the ankylosis be fibrous, and the muscles strong and firm, a very useful limb may be restored by breaking down adhesions, under cliloroform, by forcible flexion and extension, and then using passive motion, Metion, and douches. Should the muscles be very flaccid and wasted, forcible extension may leave a permanently weakened limb, over which the patient has lost the power of flexion. In such cases I have found gradual extension, made by means of an angular splint, acted upon by a ratchet-apparatus, the safest means of restoring the utility of the arm. If the ankylosis be osseous, the bones should be resected, a wedge-shaped piece being sawn out, and a false joint allowed to form. 2. The biceps may, by its contraction, occasion a permanent flexion of the arm. This contraction of the biceps may be hysterical or rheumatic. When hysterical, occun’ing in young women, it requires the ordinary constitutional trejitment of hysteria ; should this fail in removing it, extension may be made, under chloroform, and the arm kept in the straight position for a time. When