TREATMENT OF GONORRIKI'.AL CONJUNCTIVITIS. 1081 I »■ i • he 0 ill whom botli eyes were aflecteil, both organs were destroyed in one case; i n 2 one eye only was lost; one patient recoA'ered imiierfectly ; and in only I ne did complete recovery ensue. It has lx.‘en a question with Surgeons, whether gonorrhoeal ophthalmia is the : esult of the direct application of the specific pus to the conjunctiva, or occurs s a constitutional disorder. There is no doubt that the application of the ms to the surface of the conjunctiva will occasion the disease ; and this is low generally acknowledged to be the only mode of origin. The Treatment of this dangerous affection must be of an active character. ■I’lie violent depleting measures formerly recommended are now universally •ondenined. General blood-letting is never required; 'much relief may lowever be given by the extraction of a small amoimt of blood from the einple by leeches. The patient must be confined to a dark room, the bowels nust be kept regular, and a moderate diet allowed. The most active topical ■Igent that we possess is the nitrate of silver. The use of this astringent, originally introduced by Little, has been much insisted on by Guthrie, Walker, and othei’s, and is generally adopted at the present day, being certainly the most useful agent that we possess. Surgeons differ somewhat !:u opinion as to the strength of the application ; some, the Germans pecially, advise that the solid stick should be used ; whilst others employ :it in solution, of the strength of a drachm to the ounce of distilled water. ■AMiaiton Jones employs a weaker solution, one of four or five grains to the uunce, and I have seen cases very successfully treated by this plan ; so much so, indeed, that I am disposed to prefer it to the stronger solution. A : few di-o}^ must be introduced about twice in the twenty-four hours, into the ; inner can thus of the eye ; the lids in the meantime being kept covered by •compresses dipped in weak alum lotion, and the purulent discharge, as it ■jiccumulates, carefully washed away by tepid alum injections. Instead of . alum, boracic acid may be used with great effect, and lately, a very weak 'Solution of bicliloride of mercury (1 in 5000) has been tried with considerable 'Success. In doing this, great care must be taken that none of the discharge come into contact with the eyes of the Surgeon or nurses, as it is highly con- tagious, and will almost to a certainty produce the disease ; instances are recorded in which, in this way, the attendant’s vision has been destroyed. If ?the chemosis be considerable, it must be incised ; and, as the infiammation 'Subsides, belladonna lotions may be employed with advantage, and the use of the nitrate of silver and other lotions gradually discontinued. Great care must be taken to prevent infection of the other eye when only one is affected. It may be covered with a compress, or, as Dixon recommends, a watch-glass may be placed over it and seem-ed by plaster. Gonorrhoeal Sclerotitis is by no means of such frequent occurrence as the conjunctival inflammation; when it happens, it will be found to be . a.ssociated with gonorrhoeal rheumatism, and not unfr’equently with inflam- mation of the testicle, occm'ring apparently in individuals in whom there is a tendency to aflection of the fibrous tissues. This disease is evidently of con- stituDional origin, us it cannot possibly arise from local contagion; it is attended by tlie ordinaiy signs of sclerotic inflammation, and is usually accompanied by s<jiiie degree of iritis. 'Hie constitutional Treatment is that for gonoiThoeal rheumatism. Locally the eye must be protected from light, and a few drops of atropine solution put