984 URIXAUY CALCULUS AXD LITHOTOMY. instrument is fairly in the bladder, turns it so that its concavity looks down towards the rectum ; the spring in the handle is then ]n'cssed, and the blades expanded to a proper distance previously regulated, and both laterid lol>es of the prostate divided to a corresponding extent downwards and outwards in with- drawing^ the instrument (Fig. 800). The extraction of the stone is then effected in the usual way. This operation appears to me not to have received the attention that it deserves from Surgeons in this country. Byibcing careful to introduce the lithotome into the membranous portion of the canal, the arteries ^ of the bulb are not endangered, and indeed the transverse and superficial arteries of the perinteum are also above and beyond the line of incision. The prostate is divided equally on both sides in its greatest Fig. 870. —Line of Incision in the Prostate in Bilateral Lithotomy, showing its relation to the Bulb and the internal Pudic ArteiT. diameter ; if the expansion of the lithotome be carefully guarded, there is no danger of going beyond the limits of that organ, or of wounding the internal pudic arteries (Fig. 870) ; and the interior of the .bladder is reached by the most direct and readiest passage. In withdrawing the lithotome, the handle must be well depressed, and great care must be taken that the instrument be kept securely in the mesial line, so that the section may not be made more freely in one side than the other. The operation has not been performed with sufficient frequency in this country for any reliable statistics as to the results ; but Eve of Nashville has done it in 78 cases of all ages, with only 8 deaths. Medio-Bilateral Operation.—Civiale has recommended a combination of the median and the bilateral operations of lithotomy, by which the chief objections to both are got rid of. This operation is easy of execution, and has been performed for the extraction of large stones from the bladder; for those calculi, in fact, which cannot be removed by the ordinary median operation without too great an amount of force, and consequent bruising or laceration of the parts. The operation may be performed m the following manner. The patient having been tied up, and a deeply grooved rectangulai’ staff* passed into the bladder, the urethra is opened at the membranous part with the edge of the knife turned upwards, as described in the median operation (p. J)77); the double lithotome is then slid along the staff into the bladder, its concaAuty turned downwards, the blades expanded to but a limited extent, and the