684 OPEIUTIONS OX TJIE Alll-TUBE AND CJIEST. with liere, it may fairly be' doubted ■whether aii operation which is in itself dangerous could have been necessary in many of these instances, and wliether a large proportion of the children might not have recovered under ordinary medical treatment and without having recourse to surgical operation. The propriety, or rather the necessity, of the operation being now univer- sally .recognised, it remains to consider the indications for i)crforming it. Trousseau .strongly advocated early tracheotomy before collapse of the lung had taken place to any extent, or the patient had become exhausted Ijy the struggle for breath ; and nothing is more certain than that the operation is rarely successful if performed in extremis. It may be taken as a rule that, when the voice is lost or nearly lost, and there is evident laryngeal obstruction gradually increasing, the sooner tracheotomy is performed the better. The degree of obstruction is estimated by the recession of the chest-walls during inspiration. If the lower ribs and epigastrium sink in with each inspiratory effort, it is wiser not to delay the operation. The prospect of saving life after opening the windpipe in cases of diphthe- ritic asphyxia will greatly depend upon the age of the patient. Under two or even three years of age, recovery is extremely rare; as age advances, the chance of life proportionately increases, and in adults the prospect of recovery is con- siderable. In many cases the patient will get great temporary benefit from the operation, and will appear to be doing well for several days, perhaps for eight, ten, or fourteen ; and then, to the great disappointment of the Sm-geon, he vill die, not from the effects of the operation, but from blood-poisoning or from extension of the disease to the bronchi and lungs. In other forms of laryngeal obstruction not dependent on membranous laryngitis, there can be no question as to the propriety of the operation. Xo patient ought ever to be allowed to die from simple laryngeal obstruction, whether that be spasmodic or dependent on organic disease, without an attempt being made to save life by opening the windpipe. It is as unpermissible for a Surgeon to allow a patient to die of laryngeal asphyxia without an attempt at relief by opening the windpipe, even though life appear to be extinct, as it would be to let him die of hmmorrhage without attempting to control the bleeding vessel. Necessity for Promptitude.—When it has been determined to open the windpipe for acute disease, more especially supervening on chronic laryngitis, the less delay there is in having recourse to operation, the better ; as the patient may at any moment be seized with laryngeal spasm, and be carried oft. The operation ought always, however, to be completed, even though the patient have apparently expired before the windpipe^has been opened; for resuscitation may, even in these extreme cases, be effected by artificial respiration. When life hangs on so slender a thread as it does in m'gent cases of laryngeal obstruc- tion, the first touch of the knife may cause a spasmodic seizure that may give rise to apparent death. It has twice happened to mo to operate under such circumstances, and in both cases to be fortunate enough to save the patients life. I was called many years ago to an elderly woman who was apparently dying fi’om the supervention of acute upon chronic laryngeal disease. I lost no time in making an incision into the crico-thyroid membrane, but at the first touch of the knife she sank back, apparently dead. I immediately com- pleted the operation, and introduced a large silver tube, through ■which the lungs were inflated ; in the course of a few minutes, voluntary respiration ii III III j M i i t 1