EXCISION OF THE ASTRAGALUS. 405 advocating the performance of the operation, has collected the records of 64 cases. Of these he sets aside 9, of which he has not been able to find sufficiently accurate statements as to the result. Of the remaining 55, 39 were successful— ; this term implying that the patients were enabled afterwards to walk without artificial apparatus or support. Of the remaining 16, in 6, crutches or other , apparatus were necessary ; in 7, subsequent amputation was demanded on : account of return of the disease or inutility of the foot ; and there were 3 , deaths. Eesection of the entire bone—in a few cases with other portions of , the tamus—appeai-s to have been performed in 39 of the 55 cases ; of these, I 30 were altogether successful; in 4, artificial support wasnecessaiy; 2 required I subsequent amputation ; and 3 died. The operation, according to Polaillon, I has been more successful in children than in adults. He states that, of 12 cases j under 10 years old, all were successful; between the ages of 10 and 20, there I were 14 successful cases, and 3 failures; between 20 and 30, 7 successes and 9 I failures ; and between 30 and 40, 6 successful cases and 3 failures. Repro- ) duction of the bone occurred in 12 cases ; 11 being in individuals under 20 [ years of age. The Astragalus is situated in a position of great surgical importance. Articulating with the malleolar arch above, with the calcaneum below, and with the scaphoid in front—forming, as it were, the keystone of the foot—it is perfectly evident that any disease commencing in it is very likely to spread to and involve all the more important structures of the foot. Seldom, indeed, does disease originating in this bone long remain confined to it; and, so far as my experience goes, gouging operations, even if performed at an early period, are rarely of much benefit, the morbid process continuing to extend notwith- standing their employment. Indeed, in diseased astragalus, I believe that excision ought, as a rule, to be practised in preference to gouging, contrary to what is the case in the calcaneum. Disease primarily originating in the astragalus may spread in three direc- tions : upwards into the ankle-joint, downwards to the calcaneum, for- wards to the scaphoid, and thence through the large anterior synovial membrane to the rest of the tarsal bones. The treatment will vaiy according to the direction and extent of the disease. It may be arranged under four heads. 1. When the astragalus alone is diseased, we find what is seen in the drawing (Fig. 560), which represents the foot of a boy whose astragalus I excised swelling just in front of the malleolar arch, with fistulous openings leading down to the diseased astragalus ; the anterior part of the foot and the heel being quite sound. If the disease be limited to the outer side of the bone, or to its head, it is possible that, by fteely opening the sinuses and applying the gouge, the • caries may be entirely removed. liut this operation is not so satisfactory Iiere ■aselsewhere in the foot, as it is by no means easy to avoid opening the astragalo- s^phoid articulation ; and if this be done, disease will almost inevitably extend through the tarsal articul.'itions. Excision of the astragalus alone, though some- times required for disease, is perhaps more frequently called for in those cases Fig. 560.—Disease of Astragalus.