PliESSURE-EFFECTS OF THORACIC ANEURISM. 155 and of a boring, hot, or burning character. It seems to depend upon the per- foration of the tissues, more especially the bones, by the aneurismal tumour, and occurs chiefly on the right side of tlie chest (Fig. 4G4). 2. Dyspnoea is of very frequent occurrence in intrathoracic aneurism; in all probability it is more uniformly met with than any other single symptom. It may arise from five distinct conditions, and its characters vary with its cause. (I. From direct jyressure on the trachea. In these cases the dyspnoea is attended by much wheezing cough, and often by whistling sounds in the chest and tubular respiration, and by slow expansion of that cavity. There is usually expectoration of thick tenacious mucus. /3. F)'om direct pressure on a hroneJms (Fig. 4(J5). In these cases there are Avheezing, cough, aud some degree of expectoration, with perhaps diminished respiratory murmur in the side affected, and puerile respi- ration in the opposite lung, as has been pointed out by Stokes. 7. From pressure %ipon the lung. In these cases the respiration is comparatively little interfered with, the spongy tissue of the lung ac- commodating itself and yielding to the pressure of the tumom*. After a time, the pulmonic tissue will become incorporated with the wall of the sac; and then more serious difficulty in breathing, with hiemoptysis, will supervene. 8, Dyspnoea is very commonly induced l)y irritation, compression, or stretching of the left pneumo- gastric and recurrent laryngeal nerves, by the pressure of the tumour. In these cases the muscles that are supplied by the left re- current laiyngeal nerve may be paralysed, so as to occasion attacks of intense difficulty of breathing. In many cases spasm occurs from irritation of the nerve before it is pressed on sufficiently to cause paralysis. It is the crico-arytenoidms posticus muscle that is chiefly affected by the compression of the rccuiTent laryngeal. As its action is to open the glottis, its paralysis causes an impediment to the entrance of the air by the collapse of the left side of the rima glottidis—hence the dyspiuna and struggle for breathing under exertion. Tlie voice l)ccomes hoarse, croupy, or croaking; the cough has a loud cronpy or metallic sound, and is attended by the expectoration "of thin frothy mucus. The laryngeal stridor often does not occur in ordinary respiration, but is produced under exertion, or on making the patient inspire fully and deeply. The laryngeal sym])toms are sometimes so much more prominent than any of the other signs of intrathoracic aneurism, and Fig. 465.—Aneurism of Arcli of Aorta, of the size of an almond, springing from below left Siibelavian Artery, and bursting into left Bronchus.