454 DISEASE OF TILE llIF-JOINT. and 124, or dl per cent., in which no abscess formed. The following table shows the results, ddiose classed as “ verified, cures ” we^-e examined by the committee. Qdie value of the statistics is enhanced by the fact that the patients at the Hip-Hospital are kept under treatment or watclied as out-patients as far as possible until the final result is known. Patients requiring operation are sent elsewhere, and consequently are placed in a separate class. ■ ■ ■ WITH .st;ppukation. WITHOUT SUPPURATION. A. Verified cures . . . . ' . 52 31 B. Ecported cures 33 24 C. Tu process of cure and still under observation 7 5 D. Uutraced :— a Apparently cured on discharge . . . . 9 15 1). Apparently convalescent 9 11 c. In progress on discharge 41 9 E. Indefinite cases ........ 5 7 F. Cases still under treatment . . . . . . 14 9 G. Under treatment, apparently incurable 3 0 H. Deaths ...... 87 13 I. Operations . . . . . . . . 17 0 277 124 These figures yield a percentage of 42’3 of cures or convalescents, 24’2 of incomplete oases, and 33'5 of deaths. Of the 87 cases in which death took place after suppuration, 16 died of meningitis, 20 died of albiuninm'ia and dropsy, 3 of albuminuria and phthisis, 5 of phthisis, 9 of exhaustion, 2 of erysipelas, 1 of pyaemia, and 24 from unknown causes, 19 of wdiich had been discharged as incurable. In the 13 non-sujDpurating cases which terminated fatally, death took place from the following causes : 7 from meningitis, 1 from phthisis, 1 from tubercular pneumonia, 1 from croup, 1 from intercuiTent disease (nature unknown), and 2 from unknown causes. In the cases with suppuration ending in cure the average duration of treat- ment was about 4 years, in the non-suppurating cases it was about 3. In the fatal suppurating cases the average dm'ation of life was 3^ years. 2. Utility of the Limh.—When once/the bones or ligaments entering into the hip-joint have become inflamed, more or less lameness will invariably result, however carefully conducted the treatment may be. The amount of lameness may consist in a mere stiffness about the hij), a difficulty in abduction, in flexion of the thigh on the pelvis, or in free rotation: or it may extend to absolute uselessness of the shortened, withered, and deformed limb, which hangs powerless from the pelvis, suspended as it were by the ilio-femoral ligament, and slightly flexed and adducted. The extent of lameness will depend chiefly upon the form of the disease, and to some extent upon the treatment adopted ; but some will ever be left. "When the coxalgia is arthritic, and suppuration has not taken place, ankylosis of a more or less complete form will usually ensue ; and if the thigh have been kept in the straight position, a sufficiently useful limb will be left, but slightly shortened, and possessing free compensating movement in the lumbar spine, enabling the patient to swing it with facility as he walks. If suppuration have taken place, and the head of the bone have been absorbed or dislocated, the