OPERATION FOR CARIES. 287 found a very serviceable instrument, clearing away the softened carious bone without risk to the surrounding healthy structures. lu removing carious bone with these instruments, the Surgeon may be sometimes at a loss to know when he has cut away enough. In this he may generally be guided by the difference in texture between the diseased and healthy bone ; the former cutting soft and gi’itty, readily yielding before the instrument, whilst the latter is hard and resistent; so that, when all the disease is removed, the walls of the cavity left will be felt to be compact and smooth. In some cases, the healthy bone may have been softened by inflam- mation ; should there be any doubt as to the condition of what has been gouged out, it may be solved by putting the detritus into water, when, if carious it Avill become either white or black, whereas if healthy, but inflamed, it will preserve its red tint. In operating on young children especially, it is well not to have the gouge too sharp, lest the inflamed, but otherwise healthy though somewhat softened bone, be 'cut away together with that affected by caries. After the operation the cavity must be carefully cleaned to remove any detritus or loose frag- ments that may be left behind. This is best done by means of pieces of sponge held in a pair of polypus forceps. The sponges should be moistened -with chloride of zinc (gr. xx. to 3 1) so as to disinfect the wound thoroughly. All unhealthy granu- lation-tissue lining the sinuses should be scraped away with a sharp spoon. A few grains of iodoform may be introduced into the caA’ity and a drainage tube inserted. The best dressing is iodofonn or salicylic wool, applied so as to form a covering about an inch and a half to two inches thick over the wound, and extending at least six inches on each side of it. This di’essing may be changed at the end of a week for the purpose of remonng the drainage tube. A similar dressing is then applied, and if the part affected is near a joint, a plaster of Paris bandage may be applied over it and left on for a month or six weeks, unless some discharge shows out from beneath it, or the patient complains of pain, or suffers from febrile disturbance. A considerable number of cases have been treated in this way in University College Hospital with the best results. In a considerable proportion the wound has been found completely healed when the second dressing was removed. If the cavity be of very large size, more frequent dressings may be necessary. If the materials for this dressing are not at hand the wound may be dressed with carbolic oil, glycerine and carbolic acid, terebene and oil, or any other efficient antiseptic application. Instead of removing the affected bone by means of instruments. Pollock has refX)mmended that it should be dissolved by the application of a strong solu- tion of sulphunc acid. The treatment is carried out as follows : the carious surfare or cavity being exposed as before described, a solution of equal parts of strong sulphuric acid and water is applied by means of a glass brush or rod, and this may be repeated daily till the whole surface is quite free from diseased bone. In deep cavities a piece of lint soaked in a weaker solution (one part of the acid to five or six of water) may be stuffed in and left for two or three days. The slough resulting may in a day or two more be peeled off with Fig. 504.—Mar- shall’s Osteotrite.