925 ASPIRATIOJ OF KIDXEY—NEFIIRO-LITHOTOMY. t''. I hilus of the kidney is situated about two inches from the middle line and opposite the first lumbar spine. If the needle be introduced immediately external to the erector spime at this level, and passed almost directly forwards it will probably enter the pch'is. ExiDerience, however, has shown that , owin^ to the thickness of the soft parts covering’ the kidney, the exploration carried out by this metiiod must necessarily be very imperfect, and cannot be considered conclusive if yielding’ negative results. The only thorough method of exploration is to fully expose the kidney before using the needle. Aspiration of the Kidney.—This operation is performed in the same way as in other parts. A good-sized needle should be used if pus is expected [[ CO be present, as it is often too thick to pass through a fine tube. The spot ^iMelected must vary with the case, but care should be taken to avoid any risk g[i-of puncturing either the colon or peritoneum. In all enlargements of the illi .kidney these are carried forwards. If, therefore, the normal line of the colon, l^jiihat is to say a line drawn vertically upwards from midway between the ]|Uuterior and posterior superior iliac spines, be taken, the needle is certain to ^)pass behind the gut if there be any distinct enlargement of the kidney. If any Ijipart of the tumour be particularly prominent this may be punctured, but if lit be in front of the line just mentioned a careful examination for the colon loy palpation and percussion should be made. Aspiration, if carefully per- i formed with a clean instrument, is perfectly free from danger. Examination of the Kidney through an Open Wound, and Nephro- Mithotomy.—Three incisions have been recommended for exposing the kidney n the loin : a vertical incision immediately external to the edge of the quad- .•atus lumborum, a long oblique, and a transverse, or nearly transverse, incision. Of these the last is preferable, as being accompanied by less hmmorrhage, and snore fully exposing the kidney. It is best made slightly obliquely, commencing f(]| ramediately below the free extremity of the last rib, and passing backwards to ;he edge of the erector spinse. It must not be made parallel to the rib, but slightly less obli(|uely, so that its posterior end is from three-quarters of an inch ^ 0 an inch below the rib. This is necessary to avoid the risk of wounding the I \)leura, which often extends below the last rib posteriorly for from half to i.hree-quarters of an inch. This incision may be enlarged forwards if neces- sary, care being taken to avoid wounding the peritoneum ; but should more .'oom be required for any pm’pose, it is best obtained by cutting from the first ncision downwards towards the crest of the ilium, parallel to the outer border of i he quadratus lumborum. The position of the patient and early stages of the operation are the same as those of colotoniy, e.xcept that the incision is placed ligher up, and for the anatomy of the parts cut through the reader is referred ■ ,o the description of that operation (p. 847). The fat about the kiclney being •cached, the wound must be held forcibly open by copper spatuke, while an issistant pushes the kidney towards the wound by pressing on the abdomen. The fat is then torn through with fingers or forceps, keeping to the back part :>f the wound over the quadratus. If the fat is much indurated by chronic ^)cri-nephritis, amsiderable difficulty may be found in exposing the capsule of ' he kidney, but in a case adapted to nephro-lithotomy, in which the kidney is lealthy, no difficulty is found in so doing. The sense of resistance ottered I jy the solid mass of the kidney will serve as a guide to the direction in which it is 0 be sought. This part of the o[)eration is accompanied by scarcely any or no drf deeding. The kidney, being exposed fully, should now be methodically punc-