lOOI BIGELOW\S OPERATION AND INSTRUMENTS. I f| lilted through a full-sized catheter tube ; and he prolonged the sitting inde- i( finitely until this was accomplished. In one of his earlier cases, the opera- ri ;tioii lasted three hours and three-quarters, the object being to evacuate the it whole of the fragments before the operation was discontinued. 1 he patient j is of necessity etherized during the whole period. Increased familiarity with, and improved skill in, this operation have enabled Surgeons materially to if shorten the time occupied in its performance. For the purposes of his operation, Bigelow has modified the older lithotrite y ::ind the evacuating catheters, and has invented aspirators of various kinds. i|| The peculiarities of his lithotrite are as follows. It is larger, heavier, kiand altogether more powerful than any previously in use. The handles ra=‘ire lara-e and massive, and oval in form to fit the hand. The blades are ^^^omewhat longer, and the female blade has a long blunted point, curved ^j'cowards the floor of the urethra, so as to protect the membranous part, %vigainst the roof of which the point of the instrument is directed as it Fig. 894.—Removal of fragments of Stone by Bigelow’s Evacuator. Below, point of one of Bigelow’s Catheters. liiasses through. These massive instruments are used only for breaking up a ywge stone. The fi-agments are crushed by smaller instruments, more like baose already described. Before choosing the instrument, whether the litho- r nte or the evacuating catheter, Bigelow carefully measures the urethra. The :ze of the catheter he generally uses is 29 French (18 English), but smaller Lzes are often ncccssai-y. In Bigelow’s method of operating, the stone is teized and broken up in the way already described. When from the size of Lie frag'ments it is evident that the stone is fairly broken into several pieces, [!ie large fenestrated instrument is withdrawn, and a smaller instrument lia&scd in its place. When tlie stone is tlioroughly broken up, the evacuating ritheter is pas.sed. 1’hesc catheters are of various forms and sizes, with a r rge eye situated in the concave side of the instrument, close to its extremity. ■ a some ca.ses Bigelow employs a straight instrument. The instrument i lould be of the largest size that the uretlira ivill safely admit, and must be ^■^issed carefully with steady pressure, but no undue force. It is better to use smaller size than to run the risk of injuring the uretlira by attempting to