% TREATMENT OF CARIES OF SPINE—SAYRE'S JACKET. 429 f!‘ +^| lecessary. If the symptoms are very acute, the prone couch may be used for ) I short time, but as soon as possible the plaster jacket should be applied, and I i le patient allowed to move about. When all signs of acute disease ha\e dis- II ppeared, and the deformity alone remains, the apparatus shown in the j. -ocompanying figure may sometimes be worn with advantage (lig* 5^1). It 1 ombines three principles in its action—1, a broad pelvic baud, forming a firm fci; asis of support round the lower part of the trunk ; 2, lateral upright stems, ' nmnnating in crutches, by which the weight of the head and shoulders is iken off the diseased spine, and transmitted directly to the pelvic base ; and a posterior plate, Avhich by means of a rachet can l3e brought to bear directly oon the excurvated part of the spine, and support, and in some degree rectify ! . le position of this. Taylor’s support also (Fig. 572) is an apparatus of great iility, more especially in the advanced stages of angular curvature of the 'oine, where ankylosis has taken place between the diseased vertebi’m. It has 1 t I M 1 i Caries. Fig. 572.—Taylor’s Spinal Support. r,endency, in consequence of the upright iron dorsal rods being jointed back- J|r.rds, to uplift the head and shoulders, and thus often improves considerably attitude of the patient. But this very advantage in the later stages •incomes a source of inconvenience if not of positive danger in the earlier ■Alriods of the disease, as it tends to separate vertebrm in process of con- idation. It is of considerable importance that the patient should not be owed to dispense with proper support too soon, otherwise he will to a fl^-tainty suffer a speedy relapse. Treatment of Diseased Spine by Plaster of Paris Bandage.—Lewis i^yre, of New York, has very ingeniously applied the plaster of Paris ndage to the treatment of caries of the spine with angular curvature. The lowing is a brief summary of the details of this method of treatment. The shirt being removed, a thin, closely woven vest Avithout sleeves is put next the skin. The child then standing under a tripod stand, to the apex of lich is attached a block-and-fall arrangement carrying a horizontal iron bar, Asidded collar is buckled round the head and chin, while padded stirrups are "wed under the arms : straps are then passed separately from the collar and ;(