DlFFlCri/riES IX LATERAL LITHOTOMY. 965 \ I ) ¥, I I / jl i ! j I } '.c ,u i. ;l X « 9 .-fr of the forceps. These tumours, l\o^YCver, when caught between the blades or shanks of tlie forceps, soon shell out, and, rolling out of the wound, allow the ejisy exit of the calculus after them (Fig. 8(!-f). liickefs of the Pelvic Bones may constitute a serious or even an insuperable obstacle to the extraction of a calculus. This condition may act in two ways, ft may narrow the brim of the pelvis in its antero-posterior diameter, to so great an extent as to [prevent the passage of the stone downwards after it has been seized by the forceps. This condition is more to be feared in children, in whom the bladder, being an abdominal organ and lying high, is altogether above the brim of the pelvis in these cases. Or there may be difficulty in the extraction of the stone through the inferior outlet, owing to the approximation of the rami on each side. The fimt cause of difficulty once occurred to me, in ojx?rating on a very rickety boy four years and a half old. Of the second I have had no experience. Tlie rickety condition of the ^^elvis may be suspected in cases in which the lower limbs are much distorted. Its existence may be ascertained by digital exploration of the rectum, and by external measure- ments. If it be found to exist to an extreme degree, it would probably be safer to perform the suprapubic operation. In old men the outlet of the pelvis may be greatly narrowed as a consequence of senile osteomalakia. This is recognized by the approximation of the ischial tuberosities. Difficulty depending upon the Shape and Size of the Stone.—If the stone be very round, it is usually more difficult to seize than when flat or elongated. Flat, disc-shaped calculi, however, occasionally fall into the fundus of the bladder behind the prostate, and then cannot be readily reached by the forceps, Avhich passes over them. In these circumstances, they are best ex- tracted by the curved scoop. Yery flat broad calculi, and those that are round, egg-shaped, or branched, are the most difiBcult to remove, even though their size be not very great. As a general rule, however, it may be stated that, the larger the calculus, the more difficult is its extraction. This arises not so much from the outlet of the pelvis being too narrow, as fi’om the necessity of making the internal incisions through the prostate very limited. There will always be considerable difficulty in extracting calculi weighing six or eight ounces and upwards ; though cases are recorded by Cheselden, Klein, and others, in which calculi from twelve to fifteen ounces in weight have been extracted by the lateral operation. Any calculus above one inch and a half in its shorter diameter will be hard to extract through an incision of the ordinary length (not exceeding eight lines) in the prostate, even though this be considerably dilated by the pressure of the fingers : and I think it may be safely said, that a calculus two inches and upwards in diameter can scarcely be removed by the ordinary lateral operation with any degree of force which it is safe to employ. The practice adopted in such a case, more than a century ago, by Gooch, of Norwich, is probably the best that can be pursued. It con- sists in drawing the stone well down with the forceps, and then letting an assistant carefully divide the tissues that resist. In this way, by a process of traction, twisting, and division, the stone may be brought out with safety. In the facility with which the caloulus is extracted, however, much will depend upon the make of the forceps. As Liston most truly observes, “There can be no more fatal error than to attempt the extraction of a large stone with short and shabby forceps.” In these cases the open-bladed