736 DISEASES OF THE BREAST. no lancinating pain. On its upper side, several large cysts could be felt, and seen through the skin. On examination after removal, it was found to he cystic scirrlms, with large cysts of the size of cherries, containing bloody and yellow fluid. The only very suspicious circumstances here were the age of the patient, and the existence of one small indurated gland in the axilla. In these cases of doubt, the safer plan is always to make an exploratory puncture, and, if necessary, to examine under the microscope the contents withdrawn by the groove in the needle or by the trochar ; indeed, if there be the slightest doubt as to the nature of the tumour, this exploratory puncture should never be omitted before its removal is determined upon. I have more than once seen tumours which had been positively pronounced to be scirrhous, and for which amputation of the breast had been recommended, prove to he cystic, and disappear entirely when their contents were withdrawn. Between cancer and the ordinary solid tumours of the breast, more especially the adenoid and adeno-sarcomatous, the diagnosis is often extremely difficult; but we may arrange the chief signs of the two forms of disease in distinct groups, that, by comparing them together, the differences may be more clearly seen. {See Table.) NON-MALIGNANT TUMOURS. Feel. Moderately hard, nodulated, irregu- lar in shape ; occasionally more or less lobed; distinctly circumscribed ; sometimes elastic in parts. Mobility. Considerable, though occasion- ally there is a deep pedunculated attachment. Skin. Of the natural colour throughout, though thinned and expanded with the tumour lying close beneath it. Implicated only in the advanced stage of cystic sarcoma. Ni'irple. Usually not retracted. Veins of the Skin. Not much dilated. Pain. Often moderate ; if severe, continu- ous or of a neuralgic character, much increased by handling. Axillary Glands. Of usual size, or but slightly enlarged and movable. Lym- phatics not affected ; supraclavicular glands not affected. ConstiUitional Infection. None. SCIRRHOUS TUMOURS. Feel. Of stony hardness, knobby and indis- tinctly circumscidbed, or somewhat square, and occupying the whole of the substance of the gland. Mobility. At first, considerable, but soon lost from adhesion to the deeper structures by a broad attachment. Skin. Early implicated ; at first dimpled, then red or purple, and in other cases braw'iiy and leather-like, so that it does not admit of being pinched up into folds ; or nodulated; purple-red masses form in it. Niyyyle. Usually retracted. Veins of the Skin. Very greatly dilated. Pain. Severe and lancinating, especially at night after handling, and when the skin is implicated, but not continuous. Axillary Glands. Enlarged,indurated,and fixed. Indurated mass of lymphatics under and parallel to edge of the pec- toral, stretching into the axilla; supra- clavicular glands enlarged. Constitutional Cachexy. As disease ad- vances. The co-existence of adenoma and carcinoma in the same breast is exceedingly rare, though a case has been recorded by Rushton Parker. In such a case the diagnosis must necessarily be very obscure.