33 TETANUS—TIME OF ONSET. after the battle of Dresden, when great heat was followed by much wet and cold, the wounded suffered most severely. So, after some of the Indian battles, as Chilianwallah and Ferozepore, where the wounded lay exposed to cold nights after very hot days (Macleod), tetanus was of very frequent occur- rence. The case appears to have been different in America, where tetanus does nob seem to have arisen from exposure of the wounded to cold and night- air. Chisholm states that although, from the wooded nature of the country in which the battles were often fought, wounded men were not unfr’equently left for two or three days on the ground, tetanus did not appear to be more frequent amongst them than in those immediately cared for. Hennen states that a draught of air, whether hot or cold, directly blowing on the patient, is the most fertile cause of tetanus. I’he frequency with which tetanus occurs varies much. It often happens that not one case occurs in a hospital for some years, and then several are met with in close succession or simultaneously. Period of Occurrence.—Tetanus may take place at any period after the hifliction of the wound that occasions it. In hot climates especially, it may occur very speedily ; thus, Eobinson relates the case of a negro servant in the "West Indies, who scratched his finger with a broken plate, and died of tetanus in a quarter of an hour. It is very seldom, however, in temperate climates, that it supervenes before the fourth or fifth day, usually from that to the tenth day. Larrey, who had great experience of this disease, during Napoleon’s campaigns in Egypt, met with it most frequently between the fifth and fifteenth days after the infiiction of the wound. According to the experience of the Surgeons of the Peninsular War, under whose observation many hundred cases came, the disease does not show itself after the twenty-second day ; but, though this may be the general rule, Sir Gr. Blane has related a case in which it took place as late as a month after the infliction of the wound. It is stated that it may occur after the cicatrization of a wound is completed ; when this happens, the disease must rather be looked upon as being idiopathic, acciden- tally occun-ing in a person who has been recently injured. In the American War out of 367 cases in which the day of appearance of the disease is noted, it followed secondary amputations in twenty-one cases during the first day after the operation ; and in six it appeared in the first twenty-four horn’s afrer the original wound. After this but few cases appeared till the fifth day, when 19 are recorded. The highest number was 37, on the eighth day, and by the fifteenth day the number fell to 6. Seven cases occurred between the 26th and 30th days, and 23 after the end of a month. For3IS.—Tetanus may be Acute or Chronic; being in some instances fatal in the course of a few hours, but usually lasting for three or four days. Poland states that at Guy’s 51 per cent, of the cases were fatal before the fifth day after invasion. In the American war, out of 358 cases, 1 recovered and 69 died during the first day ; 1 recovered and 83 died on the second day ; 49 died on the third ; 31 on the fourth ; 22 on the fifth ; 19 on the sixth, and 14 on the seventh, and 7 on the eighth day. Thus of the acute cases two, evidently slight in character, recovered, and 294 died before the end of the eighth day, and in 203, or more than half, the disease did not exceed three days in duration. From the ninth to the nineteenth day inclusive, 36 died and 6 recovered ; from the twentieth to the twenty-seventh inclusive, 7 died and 7 recovered, and 6 survived beyond the twenty-seventh day and VOL. n. n