881 OPE RAT 10 J FOR FISTULA IN A NO. has formed in the areolar tissue outside the {^iit. The external opening in this form of fistula is usually from half an inch to an inch from the margin of the anus ; though it may be seated at a greater distance than this, as upon the hip. It is commonly small, and has a vascular granulation projecting from or occluding it ; and a thin purulent discharge usually drains away from it in small quantities, moistening the surrounding integuments. The internal open- ing is usually situated just above the sj^hincter, where the rectum begins to expand. But the fistula does not terminate at this internal aperture ; for in the majority of cases it runs up into a kind of cul-de-sac, to a considerable dis- ^|t tance further. The internal aperture may readily be detected by introducing a il' blunt curved probe into the fistula ; when, by a little management, it may be 1 '.“arried through the inner opening. In some cases, the existence of this may i) be ascertained by examining the interior of the bowel with a speculum ani, and ) by injecting water into the external opening. Incomplete or Blind Fistnlae may be of two kinds, and commonly arise Tom constitutional causes. AVIien there is no internal perforation, a mere .}.;inus having been left by the bursting of an abscess, the fistula is termed Mind xtenial. When there is only an inteimal aperture, it is called blind internal. ffhe blind external fistula is readily recognized by its being found that the )robe does not penetrate the interior of the gut. The blind internal is not so .eadily detected : but in this case it will generally be found that the patient utters from an occasional and tolerably abundant discharge of pus from the luterior of the bowel; that there is a good deal of tenderness, with some ■•'rawuy induration in the ischio-rectal fossa on one side of the anus; and that ' he pus may be made to well out in some quantity by pressing upon this part. )n passing the finger into the rectmn, the ragged internal aperture in the gut hrougli which the pus exudes may readily be felt. In most cases the opening .an be seen by the help of a speculum, and a hooked probe passed into it. Treatment.—Operative interference is usually necessary. It is true that in lome rare instances the fistula may be made to close under the influence of onstitutional management, aided, perhaps, by stimulating its interior Avith ititrate of silver, or by touching it with a probe dipped in nitric acid. This ! nd of treatment is, however, successful only in the blind external fistula, ■ •veral instances of which I have seen recover in this Avay ; but it can uevci’ ! expected to answer in any other variety of the disease. Occasionally in ; derly people a blind internal fistula (or fistulm) will be found, Avhich, falling to a very chronic state and discharging little, is a source of but very ivial discomfort, and will continue for years Avithout giving rise to rious locjil inconA'enience, or in any way disturbing the general health. In ch cases, I belieA'e, there is often far less risk in leaving the fistula un- uched, tlian in subjecting the patient at an advanced period of life to the trj|; zard8 of an operation. When the fistula is complete, the only plan of trciit- 2ut that otters any chance of success is the division of the sphincter ; so that 'is muscle, Avhich tends to prevent the closure of the sinus, may be paralysed, • d the fistula, lx;ing laid open from the bottom, made to heal by granulation, irious })lans hav'e been devised for the division of the sphincter, and much genuity has been e.\'pended in attempts to discover simpler and less painful ales of effecting this than by the knife, but hitherto Avithout success ; and e only phm of treatment that deserves any attention is section of the I ificle Avith a curved bistoury.