943 SOUNDING FOR STONE. especially those bchiiul the prostate. It should have a vide and smooth stee handle, and be slii^htly bulbous. Sir H. Thompson prefers a hollow sound wit i <i • I' round handle. The operation of sounding is conducted as follows, i he patient lies upon his back on a hard mattress with his biittoclcs well raised on a pillow , nr ,a full-sized sound, well-oiled and Avarmed, is then passed into the bladder ij which sliould, if the patient can retain it, be allowed to contain three oi foiii ounces of urine. The Surgeon then using his left hand, or crossing over to the patient’s risht side, Avhichever he finds most conA’enient, carefully directs the beak of the"^ instrument towards the back of the bladder, turning it from rio-ht to left over the Avhole of that region ; he next draws it forward on one i>side as far as the neck, tapping, as it Avere, gently Avith its beak ; he repeats jtthe same mauceuvre on the other side ; and, lastly, directs the end of the in- sstrunient by raising its handle into the loAver fundus, Avhich he carefully ex- ■ Fig. S38.—Sounding for Stone behind Prostate. ^^!)lores. Usually the stone is readily detected by these inanoeuATes, and its ■>-)osition in the bladder AA’ill often be dependent upon, and may to a certain ‘••‘xtent be taken as an approximative indication of, its size. Thus, Avheu Kaoderately large, it Avill usually be found lying to one side, most generally the -^'■i ight, of the neck of the bladder ; AAdien small, it Avill be placed toAvards the '■uundus, near the orifice of one or other ureter. These then are the situations ■in Avhich the Surgeon should first seek for a stone, and in Avhich he Avill gene- ji'fcally find it Avhen present. Should it not be met Avith here, the chances are, ■iQorc especially if the patient l)e elderly, that it Avill be found in a pouch bc- ■uind the pro.«tate, Avhere it may be detected by depressing the handle and so ■iuming the beak of the sound doAViiAvards (Fig. 838). Should the Surgeon ■ lot detect the calculus in any of these situations, he depresses the handle B Kitween the thighs, and tilts up the beak so as to examine the pubic portion