VlUNAliY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. 974 I. Froin the 11 rinc being-m////m/6Y/m/o the areolar Ushvp, in conse(|uence of the incision extending- beyond the limits of the prostate, into tlie loose layers of tissue that lie behind the recto-vesical fascia and around the bladder; •i. In consequence of the Irimmij ami laceration to Avhich the neck of the bladder, the prostate, and the textures between it and the rectum, are subjected, in prolonged attempts to extract a large calculus through too small an incision. 1. The danger of Cultimj beyoncl the Lateral Lirjament of the Bladder in the adult has already been adverted to. In the extraction of calculi of ordinarv size, there can be no necessity to extend the internal incision ; but when the calculus is of considerable magnitude, the Burgeon, wi.shing to get as mucli space as possible, may inadvertently cany his knife l^eyond the prostate ; or, if he make a cut into the right side of this gland, he may perhapN prolong it a little too fir, and thus open the loose areolar tissue or fascia which lies beyond it, and which is continuous with the subperitoneal plain* of areolar tissue. By dilating the incision in the prostate downwards and outwards, cither with the finger or with a blunt gorget, injury to this tissue is prevented. If the incision extend beyond the prostate, the urine, as it escapes through the wound, soaks into the meshes of the loose areolar tissue over which it flows, and thus gives rise to infiltration, followed by rapidly extending inflam- mation and sloughing, which speedily involve the whole of the neighbouring textures. This mischief generally occurs within the fii-st forty-eight hours : indeed, I have never seen it come on after the third day. It is indicated by the patient being seized Avith rigors, followed by dry heat of skin, a quick pulse, which, after a time, may become intermittent, and a dry and brown tongue. At the same time he Avill complain of some tenderness about the lower part of the abdomen, and in the groins ; the belly becomes tympanitic, the body covered with a profuse SAveat; hiccup comes on, the pulse becomes more weak and fluttering, and death usually occurs about the fourth or fifth day after the operation. In some cases, there are more decided signs of peritoneal inflammation ; but, as Brodie very truly' remarks, this is not the- primary disease, but is only induced secondarily by the inflammation and sloughing of the areolar tissue of the pelvis spreading to the contiguous serous membrane. The Treatment of such cases must he conducted on the ordinary principles that guide ns in the management of diifuse inflammations. It is only by ad- ministering ammonia, Avith such a quantity of Avine or brandy as the state of the system may indicate, together Avith such nourishment as the patient can take, that life can be preserved. The disease is a depressing one, and requires a stimulating plan of treatment. Brodie has recommended that in these cases a free incision should be made through the sloughy tissues about the Avoiind into the rectum, in accordance Avith the general principles that guide us in the management of similar affections elsewhere. In one case of that kind that occurred under his care, he saA^ed the patient bypassing a ciu-A-ed probe-pointed bistoury into the wound to its furthest extremity, to the left side of the neck of the bladder; he then pushed it through the tunics of the rectum, and, draAv- ing- it dowuAvards, divided the loAver part of the gut together with the sphincter; thus laying the wound and the rectiun into one. The relief Avas im- mediate, and the patient recoA'ered. This jAlan of treatment certainly seems rational, and Avorthy of trial in similar cases. 1 (1