ELONGATED UVULA—TONSILLITIS. (>S2> Fibroma, and various forms of Sarcoma have also been met with in this region. Soft Pal.\te.—The most common disease of tlic soft palate is syiiMlitic nJceration I,, p. 1112). Epithriioma is occasionally met with in this part, but more commonly the palate is affected by extension from the pillar of the fauces or the root of the tongue. Adenoma is perhaps the most common tumour in this region. It is hard, smooth, painless, and being encapsuled, is readily shelled out from a single incision. A few years ago, 0. Heath success- fully removed a tumour of this kind measuring about one inch and a half in diameter. Uvula.—Elongation of the Uvula.—The uvula occasionally becoming elongated and hanging down into the pharynx, so as to touch the epiglottis and sensitive mucous membrane in its neighbourhood, gi^'es rise to gi*eat irritation of the fauces, and to a tickling or spiismodic cough, Avhich can be cured only by removing the pendulous body. This little operation may be readily done by seizing the end of the uvula with a pair of polyims- forceps, and snipping it across near the root with a long pair of scissors. It is better not to remove the whole of the uvula. If this be done, throat-imtation is apt to continue. I have been most satisfied with the result of those cases, in which a stump from a quarter to the thii’d of an inch in length has been left. For some years I have been in the habit of using a pair of “ vulsellum-scissors ” (Fig. 738), by which the uvula is cut off at the same moment that it is seized, thus rendering the operation easier and less irritating to the patient. A veiy ingenious American instrument, con- sisting of a pair of forceps and scissors combined, may be employed with the same view ; by closing the handles of this instrument the uvula is first seized, and is then immediately cut across (Fig. 739). Tonsils.—Tonsillitis or Quinsy.—The tonsils are not unfrequently the seat of disease, becoming inflamed or permanently enlarged. When inflamed. Fig. 738.—Viilsellum- Scissors. Fig. 739.—Forceps-Scissors. they become swollen and red, with much pain in the side of the neck and ear, increa.sed by any attempt at swallowing ; there is usually rather a profuse secretion of saliva, and a good dcjil of swelling under the angles of the jaws ; the tongue is much coated with thick pasty mucus, and the voice is thick and na.sal. The disease comes on suddenly, often accompanied by high fever.