DEFORMITIES. 496 woodcut (Fig. G15). By it the projection of the right shoulder may be gradually brought down, the left one raised, and the weight of the whole of the upper part of the body supported. By this contrivance alone, properly and carefully adjusted to the condition of the defonnity, nlost patients may be treated without the necessity of any confinement whatever ; the spine being by degi’ees restored to its proper direction by veiy gradually increasing the pressure and support of the instrument, at the same time that the general health is carefully attended to, and the patient has the benefit of good air. At first the instrument need be worn only during the day, but after a time it should be kept on at night as well. In long-standing and severe cases of lateral curvature of the spine, when its flexibility is lost, and the projection of the ribs has become permanent, a cure cannot be expected, nor can it be brought about by any means ; but the patient will derive great comfort and support from the use of this excellent instrument, and the increase of the disease may thus be prevented. Sayre’s plaster jacket has been used for lateral curvature, but is now generally condemned, as it prevents movement com- pletely, and thus increases the weakness of the muscles. The treatment of Posterior Excurvation of the spine, without caries or other organic disease of the vertebral column, is best conducted by the use of the instrument here figured (Fig. GIG), which is constructed essentially on the same principles as that for lateral curvature, with the exception that the back- plate is so arranged as to press upon the projection, and thus gradually to Fig. 617. —Spinal Support for Posterior Incurvation. bring it into proper position. In cases of kyphosis especially, attention should be directed to the sense of vision, and myopia or other impairments should be corrected by the use of glasses, the stoop being often dependent on near-sight. n -n i / a In Posterior Incurvation the apparatus here figured (Fig. 617) will be found the most useful appliance. In fact, all these varieties of spinal cmvatiiie may be remedied by the use of instruments constructed and acting on the most simple mechanical principles. DEFOBMITIES OF THE NECK AND LIMBS. Various defonnities, such as squint, wry-neclc, and chib-foot, are due to a disturbance of the normal equilibrium that exists between antagonistic muscles