DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. 540 inflammation of the meatus. In these cases the mcmljrana tympani is always perforated. The symptoms are merely loss or dulness of hearing, with a chronic miico-puriilont discharge from the ear, often liaving an extremely offensive smell. The consequences of purulent catarrh are frequently serious, and sometimes fatal. If unchecked the disease may lead' to necrosis of the small bones, or to their becoming ankylosed and fixed by adhesions to such an extent as to be useless. The disease probably in all cases extends into the mastoid cells, and here the discharge may accumulate and decompose. Owing to the irregularity of the cavities it may not find a sufficient exit, and an abscess of the mastoid process may fonn, gradually perforating the bone and appearing beneath the skin. Caries or necrosis of portions of the temporal bone is a consequence of greater gravity. When this takes place pus may form within the skull between the dura mater and the bone. This may be followed by diffuse septic meningitis, or by thrombosis of the lateral sinus, with subsequent softening and disintegration of the clot, giving rise to embolic pymmia. Less commonly an abscess forms in the temporo-sphenoidal lobe of the brain. In rare cases fatal septic infection may take place without any disease of the bone being found after death. The symptoms of these various complications present nothing peculiar and need no detailed descrip- tion. In strmnous children enlargement and suppuration of the glands behind the jaw is a common complication. In the Treatment of chronic purulent catarrh of the middle ear, the essential objects aimed at are complete removal of the purulent secretion as soon as it forms, and j)revention of its decomposition. As the secretion diminishes astringent application may be used to hasten its cessation. The removal of the purulent secretion is effected chiefly by frequent syringing of the ear, and by blowing through the cavity either by Politzer’s apparatus, the catheter, or simple forced expiration. The syringe must not be used too forcibly, especially if the opening in the membrane is large. Hinton recommended that an india-rubber ball syringe with a nipple-like nozzle completely filling the external meatus, should be used, by means of which the fiuid may be made to flow through the ear into the pharynx. This should be done with steady gentle pressure. If too much force be used it causes giddiness or faintness. The head should be held forwards, so that the fluid that enters the pharynx may pass out at the nose. Decomposition is prevented by the use of antiseptic solutions, the best being Oondy’s fiuid, chloride of zinc (gr. j. to 5j.), or a concentrated solution of boracic acid. After the ear has been syringed the meatus should be carefully dried with cotton-wool. In many cases great benefit is obtained from blowing into it a small quantity of iodoform. Under this treatment the discharge in most cases gradually ceases, and unless it be too large, the opening in the membrane heals. In exceptional cases in which there is insufficient exit for the discharge it may be necessary to enlarge the opening in the tympanic membrane to allow of more perfect cleaning of the cavity. Tlie complications of chronic purulent catarrh must be prevented if possible by the above treatment. Necrosis of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, meningitis, intracranial suppuration and ]3ya3mia, when they arise, are beyond the reach of treatment. Necrosis of the mastoid process is less danger- ous; the sequestrum may separate and be removed by the meatus or externally.