DISTAL LIGATURE OF CAROTID. 179 disoiise of tlie arteries leading to the brain may, as ap]>ears from patliological records, be unattended by cerebral disturbance, while this so frequently follows ligature, lies (as has been pointed out by Tilz), that in the former case the obstruction is gradual, so that the collateral circulation has time to be estab- lished, while in the latter the interruption is sudden. The cause of these cerehral si/mploms is certainly the disturbance of the cerebral circulation, induced by the ligature of the carotid. When a considerable jKtrtion of the supply of blood to the brain is suddenly cut off, two sets of symptoms may ensue—one immediate, the other remote. The immediate symptoms are those that generally result from functional disturbance of the br.iiu, consequent upon too small a supply of arterial blood. They consist of syncope, trembling, twitches, giddiness, and impairment of sight. After this condition has been maintained for a few days, the nutrition of the organ becomes materially affected, and softening of the cerebral substance takes place ; giving rise to a new and more serious set of symptoms indicative of this pathological condition, such as convulsions, hemiplegia, and death. In other cases congestion may come on, either by the interference with the return of blood through the jugular vein, or as a consequence of that venous turgidity which we commonly observe after the ligature of a main arterial trunk ; or perhaps coma may be induced by apoplectic effusion into a softened portion of the organ. Ejffects on the Lungs.—Besides the brain, the lungs are not uncommonly secondarily affected after ligature of the carotid. To this condition special attention has been directed by Jobert and Miller. The lungs appear to become gi’eatly congested, and this condition has a tendency to run into a subacute form of inflammation. The cause of this congestion of the lungs is extremely interesting. It cannot be owing to the simple obstruction of the passage of the blood through the carotid causing a disturbance in the balance of the circulation, and thus a tendency to internal congestion ; for, if this ^vere the cause, we ought to meet Avith it generally after ligature of the arteries of the first class. Xor can it be ovdng to any injury sustained by the eighth nerve during the deligation of the artery ; as in many of the instances in which it is stated to have occuiTed, there was no eAudence of that nei’A^e having been exposed or damaged, and every reason, from the knoAvn skill of the operators, to believe the contrary. I am rather inclined to look upon the nnusually frequent occurrence of pulmonic congestion after ligature of tlie carotid, as a secondaiy condition consequent upon a derangement in the functions of the brain and medulla oblongata, primarily induced by the dis- turbed state of the circulation through that organ : for we know that any cause which depresses the activity of the nervous centres tends to diminish proportionately the freedom of the respiratory movements, and thus, by inter- fering with the due ijerfoi'inance of the act of respiration, disposes to congestion of the lungs, as seen in injuries of the head, in apoj)le.xy, and in the operation of the sedative poisons. It would appear from the detail of some of the recorded cases, as well as from Jobert’s experiment, that blood-letting is of considerable service in the removal of this condition, and should consequently not lx; omitted. Ligature of the Carotid on the Distal Side of the Sac.—Aneurism ot the carotid arteiy, occurring low in the neck, does not admit the appli- cation of a lig.'itnre on the cardiac side of the tumour. What, then, is to he done in such a (;ase as this? Should it be left to the remote chance of a spontaneous cure, or should it be subjected to surgical interference ?