II 522 DEFORMITIES. any operation beyond that already descriljed for knock-knee is reqnii-ed in the fenmr. In tlie tihia tlie curve is most commonly outwards and foiAvards, often to sucli an extent as seriously to cripple the patient. In these cases a wedo-e-shaped piece of hone is often removed from the most ])rominent ijart of the cni’ve, hut as g’ood a result can usually he ohtained hy simple division of the hone hy the chisel and mallet, used in the same way as in the operation for knock-knee. If necessary, the same hone may he divided in more than one place, either simultaneously, or the second operation may he deferred till the patient has recovered from the first. In complicated cases of knock-knee with rickety curves of the femur and tibia, IVlacewen lias jierfoi’med as many as ten osteotomies simultaneously on the same ])atient. If proper antiseptic j)recautions are adopted, the danger of these operations is very slight, as may he seen from the result of Macewen’s practice (p. 51.3). Club-Foot.—Deformities of the foot may affect either one or both of the extremities. They may be congenital or acquired, and may occur in either sex, but appear to be more common amongst boys than girls. There are four primary varieties of club-foot, and two secondary ones. Of the four 2'^'i'mary forms, in two the deformity is in the antero-posterior direction, in the sense of flexion and of extension : Talipes Equinus, in which the heel is drawn up and the toes pointed downwards ; and its antithesis. Talipes Calcaneus, in which the heel is pointed downwards and the foot and toes dravm up. In the remaining two forms the deformity is lateral, the foot being adducted and Dvisted inwards in Talipes Varus, and abducted and twisted outwards in Talipes Valgus. The four primary forms of club-foot correspond with and are dependent on a permanent condition of one or other of the four simjjle movements of which the foot is susceptible at the ankle-joint. Thus ill Talipes Equinus the foot is extended, the heel being raised, and the dorsum pointing downwards in a line more or less direct with that of the anterior part of the leg. This is due to permanent contraction of those muscles that are inserted into the os calcis through the medium of the tendo Achillis. In Talipes Calcaneus the foot is di’awn up and the heel depressed, so that the dorsum forms an ano;le more or less acute with the front of the leg. Here the tibialis aiiticus is the muscle chiefly at fault. In Taliiies Varus the foot is adducted forcibly, and the inner side of the sole raised sometimes to a right angle with the ground ; this is due principally to the combined action of the tibialis posticus and tibialis anticus; and in Talipes Valgus we have the converse-—abduction of the foot, and raising of the outer side of the sole, due to the action of the peronei. Besides these four primary forms, there are two secondary varieties of club- foot ; Talipes Equino-varus, in which the heel is raised and the foot drawn inwards ; and Talipes Calcaneo-valgus, in which the heel is di’awn down and the foot turned out. The Tali2)es Equinus and Varus are commonly associated, because in these forms the flexor and adductor muscles, viz., the strong muscles of the calf and the tibialis posticus, those that are supplied by the posterior tibial nerve, are contracted. Again, the Talipes Calcaneus and Valgus are associated, because in these the. extensor and the peroneal muscles, those supplied by the external popliteal nerve, are the seat of contraction. In some forms of club-foot, especially in the I'anis and equino-varus, it will be found that the muscles antagonistic to those that arc conti’acted are in a state of atrophy and defective innervation—in this case the extensors on the ( * r X