866 DISEASES OF THE LARGE IXTESTINE AXD AXES. Dilatation may sometimes ho vory coii\-oiiiontly oiroctod by tliouse of Todd’s dilator (Fig-. 80(J)- This is iiitrodiicod closed, covered with a thin vulcanized india-rubber sbcatb, so as to avoid iiijtping the inucoiis membrane, ft is then expanded to the required extent by pressing on a triggei' in the bandle. If complete obstruction occur, purgatives must on no account be given. An endeavour should be made to relieve the patient by the use of enemata of olive-oil, and the strength should be supported by a diet that is nourisliing. at the same time that it leaves little or no solid residue. 0])ium in small doses frequently given will relieve the pain and prevent sickness ; under this treatment the bowels . may eventually act after a considerable lapse of time. In a case to which reference has already been made, the ol)stri[ction gave way after it had lasted i'or about five weeks, some hardened faeces Avith bloody mucus being discharged and speedily followed by abundant feculent motions. Should the obstruction, however, continue, and the patient consetpiently be ill imminent danger of death from this cause, the intestine should be f)pened, if possible, by Amussat’s operation, performed in the way already described (p. 846, Vol. II.). This may require to be done either on the right or the left side, according to the seat of the stricture. In the great majority of instances, this will be situated beloiv the descending colon, so that relief may be given by opening this intestine in the left loin; but if it be impossible or even very difficult to determine the precise seat of the obstruction, the operation may as readily be performed in the right lumbar region. In those rare cases in which the stricture is seated in the tranverse colon, there would probably be considerable distension of the right loin, without any corresponding enlarge- ment of the left ; in these circumstances, the proper plan would be to open the ascending colon. ||| Syphilitic Stricture of the Hectum is met with usually Avithiu easy 11 reach of the finger, and chiefly in young Avomen under thirty, rarely in men. ' The pathological changes to which it is due haA'e been already described in the Chapter on Syphilis, Vol. I., p. 1114. The fact that this disease is almost exclusively met with in Avomen has led to the idea that it may be due to direct infection of the boAvel or by extension of disease from the vagina, but ! there is no evidence to support this view. It is abvays a tertiary affection, and is seldom associated Avith any disease of the vagina. It is almost exclusiAnly met Avith amongst the poorer classes, and in hospital practice, j t > To the finger introduced into the bowel it feels as if there AA'ere an irregular j tk thickened cicatricial constriction of the mucous membrane. This may be j f*. limited to the loAver part of the boAA'el, but frequently extends beyond the|l' reach of the finger. The examination causes the patient the most intense in 2Aain, as the disease is often associated Avith ulceration in the constrictedjn ; region. Sometimes under jArojAer treatment the ulcers may be made to heal, and|n then the dense irregular cicatricial bands alone Avillbefelt. There are usuallyj^; evidences of constitutional syphilis. I haA^e seen these syphilitic ulceration.- extend into the vagina, so as to establish a recto-A'aginal fistula. In one case under my care death resulted from perforation of the upper part of the rectum into the }Aeritoneum. The motions are usually passed Avith much pain, and are mixed Avith blood and pus. The general health is at first good. l)ut gradually giA'es Avay under the jAain and the exhaustion from loss of blood and discharge. The ---The jiatieut must be jmt under the usual coiistitutiona ii Vi