874 Df.HJ'JASI-S OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. The TrmUnml ol'the noii-syphilitic iistula will vary according as the tistnla )S simple, or complicated with lacerated perimcum. Simple Hnconqilmded Redo-Vaginal FMiila, if it he small and recent, mav occasionally be closed by attention to cleanliness, at the same time that its edges are touched with the nitrate of silver, a hot iron wire*, or the platinum loop. If it be very large, the greater jiart of the posterior jjart of the vagina liaving been destroyed, it will probably be incurable; but even here the patient should not be left to her fate, and some operation should be attempted which may lessen its size, even if it do not completely close it. The kind of hstnla which is here met Avith usually consists of a circular aperture, that readily admits the point of the finger, situated just above the sphincter ani. ddie operation for the closure of a recto-vaginal fistula of this kind consists, after emptying the patient’s bowels by purgatives and an enema, and the bladder by the catheter, in introducing a duck-billed speculum into the vagina, and freely paring the edges of the aperture. As the fistula is always Ioav down, this is readily done by placing the patient on her back, and tying the liands and feet together, as in lithotomy. The vaginal mucous membrane should be dissected off toAvards the fistula. The next point is to bring its edges into apposition, in a direction transA^erse to the axis of the vagina ; and in doing this, the recommendation made by Copeland and BroAvn, of dividing the sphincter ani, should ahvays be acted on, as it is a most importaiit auxiliary to the success of the operative procedures that are required; for, as there is always loss of substance in these fistulm, there is necessarily a tendency to tension oii their sides AA’lien any attempt is made to draw them together ; and it is also of importance that any muscular moA'ement about the parts in the neighbour- hood of the fistulm should be arrested, as this might otherAvise break down union after it had taken place between the edges. The sides of the fistula must ihen be drawn into apposition by silver sutures introduced by means of the hollow needle. I have ahvays found that these sutures are most easily introduced if passedalove do'wmvards—the mucous membrane being then drawn upon by the needle, Avhich more readily transfixes it than if it be introduced fi’oui beloAV upAvards, when it is left to push the membrane before it. The wires are thus passed across the fistula and out through the vaginal mucous membrane, half an inch beyond the freshened surfaces, care being taken not to include tlie rectal mucous membrane. They may then be twisted, or brought through a leaden plate and clamped by shot. The success of the procedure depends not only on the proper completion of the steps of the operation, but greatly on the after-treatment. This should consist in the administration of opium, to pre- vent the boAA'els from acting for ten or tAvelve days ; indeed, until firm union has taken place betAveen the edges. They may then be mov'ed by means of laxatives and oleaginous enemata carefully given. During the treatment, the parts should be disturbed as little as possible, the patient lying on her side. The Avater should be draAvn off by a catheter tAvice a day. The parts should be Avell syringed twice a day with boracic acid lotion or a solution of boro- glyceride or some other simple antiseptic. Tlie patient must be kept upon a very moderate diet, and the stitches may be left in for eight days, Avhen they must be cut out and carefidly removed. Should any point of tin* fistula not be closed, the ap])Iication of the nitrate of sih'er may induce proper union of it. If, as A’ery commonly happens, the Redo-Vaginal Fistula he complicated with