SUJiGICAL OPERATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. 924 Iia3matm-in Avonld ]-»robal)ly serve to indicate its nature. Profuse hfematiiria following- the examination is suggestive of malignant disease. In some cases of large accimmlations of calculi grating lias been felt during inanijmla- tion. The above taken in connection with the symptoms already described will usually enable the Surgeon to determine the nature of a renal tumour with sufficient accuracy. The Treatment of Carcinoma or Sarcoma is necessarily limited to nephrectomy. This has been done both through the loin and by the abdo- men. If the tumour exceed a moderate size the latter is the only possible method. In smaller tumours the lumbar operation is practicable and has so far yielded the best results. The operation is not to be lightly undertaken. The disease is not usually a very painful one, and for that reason the cases of it are seldom seen till the tumour is of considerable size. The immediate mortality is great and the prospect of permanent cure very small. If the disease be detected sufficiently early the operation might, however, give the patient a chance of prolongation of life if not of cure. Fistulous Communications between the ureter and the uterus or vagina are occasionally met with as the result of injury during labour or during ovariotomy. In these cases the kidney being healthy may be very safely excised by the lumbar incision. Floating Kidney.—Three degrees of abnormal mobility of the kidney are met with. In the slightest form the organ can be moved upwards and downwards for about an inch beneath the peritoneum ; this is very common. A further degree of movement in the same direction beneath the peritonemn is met with in rare cases, and still more rarely the peritoneum completely sun-ouuds the gland, forming a meso-nephron. The first is recognized only by careful examination ; the two more extreme degi’ees may give rise to constant and severe pain of a sickening character, occasionally accompanied by h^ematuria, which can sometimes be induced by handling. These conditions were formerly treated by the application of a padded elastic belt, and although this is seldom efficient it should always be tried before suggesting other means. If it fails and the patient’s life is scarcely endurable from the pain in the displaced kidney, operative interference becomes justifiable. Nephrectomy has been repeatedly performed for this condition, but it is a severe measure in a disease not attended by any danger to life ; lately, however, Hahn of Berlin has suggested a simpler proceeding, which has been successfully earned out in several cases and to which he has given the name of nephro-raphy. It consists merely in exposing the kidney by the method to be presently described, and sewing the perinephritic areolar tissue to the margin of the wound, leaving it subsequently to heal by granulation. The operation is almost free from danger, and should be certainly preferred, if any such pro- ceeding is necessary, to one so dangerous as nephrectomy. OPEBATIONS ON THE KIDNEY. Exploration of the Kidney.—If the symptoms of renal calculus are well marked before proceeding to any more severe measure the kidnej explored, as suggested by A. E. Barker, by means of the aspirator, a long ne needle being used. This is preferable to making use of an acupuncture as the escape of urine show-s that the instrument has reached the pehis. e