II 552 DISEASES OF THE HEAD AND NECK. Ill 1802 Sir AVilliam L'awroiico exposed the nasal fossa? for the removal of polypi hy carrying- an incision round the nose, commencing on one side jnst internal to the lachrymal sac and terminating at the same ])oint on the other side passing below between the aim nasi and the iipjjcr lip. The aim nasi were then separated from the bone and the nasal process of the superior maxilla divided in the incision with cutting-pliers. The septum being then divided, the nose was turned u])wards towards the forehead. The nasal cavity is thus very lully exposed and the space obtained may in some cases be sufficient for the removal of a naso-pharyngeal tumour of considerable size. Ollier recommends a.somewhat similar operation, but cames his incision in the opposite direction, commencing at the ala on one side, passing up the side of the nose to the level of the lower margin of the orbit, then across the bridge and down the opposite side, terminating at the ala. The nasal bones and the nasal process of the superior maxilla, so far as it is concerned in the tumour, are then cut through with a fine saw and the nose turned downwards, by which the upper part of the nasal cavity is very fully exposed. In both these methods the nose is replaced after the operation and very little deformity results. Rouge’s operation (p. 540) might in some cases give sufficient access to the nasal ca^dty. Manne of Avignon in 1711 attempted to reach these tumours from the mouth by dividing the soft palate. Nekton extends the operation thus : a transverse incision is first made across the hard palate at the level of the second bicuspid teeth ; from the middle of this a second incision is carried backwards, dividing the soft structures of the hard palate and the soft palate. By means of the periosteal elevator and scissors the two flaps thus formed are separated from the bone and turned downwards and outwards, out of the way. The exposed part of the hard palate is then removed with a chisel and mallet, and thus the posterior part of the nasal cavity and the upper part of the pharynx are brought very fully into vie?v. After the operation the flaps are united by sutures as in the operation for congenital cleft palate. Complete removal of the superior maxilla by Syme, Flaubert, and others, has been adopted as a preliminary step to removal of the fibrous tumour when of unusual size. Langenbeck and others have performed partial excisions of the upper jaw, vdth replacement of the bone after the operation. These pro- ceedings are more fully described in Chapter LYII, All these operations are more or less difficult and dangerous, and should not be undertaken unless the tumour threatens death from its size or from loss of blood, or shows evident signs of active growth. According to Le Fort, fibrous polypi tend to cease gTowing with the growth of the patient, and partial destruction of the tumour by cauterization or electrolysis will sometimes succeed in arresting the further progress of the growth. Malignant Nasal Tumours.—There is a remarkable, as yet unde- scribed and to me inexplicable, connexion between the ordinary benign nasal polypus and tumours of a sarcomatous or cancerous character, developing as a sequence of the extraction of the polyp in the large cavities and interosseous fissures in the vicinity of the nares. I have several times seen in children and young adults tumours of the above-mentioned character developing rapidly in the orbit, the sphenoidal cells, or behind the superior maxilla, after l| 6.' !1 ( 0l