220 SPECIAL ANEURISMS. and be carefully opened, when the artery and vein will be seen lying pai-allel to one another, the arteiy being- to the outer side. The vein having been drawn inwards, the aneurism-needle must be carried between it and the artery. The second part of the artery has the three cords of the brachial jjlexus hi close contact with it, the inner lying between it and the vein. At the lowei- border of the pcctoralis minor the inner head of the median crosses the artery. Care must be taken not to include these nerves in the ligatui-e. The great advantage of this operation is, that the wound is open and free, and that, consequently, the artery can be more readily reached in any part of its course. The disadvantage is the great division of muscular substance that it entails. This, however, need not leave any permanent weakness of the limb, as by proper position ready and direct union may be effected between the parts. ’ The axillary artery may also be ligatured at any point below the lower border of the pectoralis minor, by making an incision parallel to its course in the axilla. The guiding line for the vessel in this situation is obtained by dividing the space between the anterior and posterior folds of the axilla into three equal parts, when the artery will be found to lie at the junction of the anterior with the middle third. The arm being held at an obtuse angle with the trunk, so as to make the skin tense, an incision is made, commencing at the thoracic border of the axilla and extending for a distance of about three inches i parallel to the course of the artery. The incision must be made so as to divide the skin only. The fascia, being exposed, must be carefully opened, when the' axillary vein will come into view, and must be drawn to one side Avith a blunt. hook. The artery will now be seen surrounded by the nerves of the brachial, plexus. In front of it or to its inner side is the internal cutaneous. To itsi ^ inner side between it and the vein is the ulnar ; the nerve of Wrisberg is stilli. • further internal, usually beyond the vein. To the outer side is the median,, .1 and for a short distance above the external cutaneous lies on the same side of! i the vessel before entering the coraco-brachialis. Behind is the musculo-spiral,, and as far as the upper border of the teres major, the circumflex. The nervest are easily held aside, and the ligature is passed round the artery from the vein.. ; If the ligature be applied near the termination of the axillary artery, as it liesf over the tendons of the latissimus dorsi and teres major, it will not be in ^ immediate contiguity to any large branch. Above this point, it must be applied close to either the subscapsular or the circumflex arteries, which would ' perhaps somewhat add to the danger of secondary haemorrhage. In a fat s axilla there is some risk of missing the artery by drifting too much towards)! \ the posterior border of the axilla. To avoid this, and also to get rid of the) 1 inconvenience caused by the situation of the vein covering the artery, Mal-^ gaigne recommends that the incision should be made a little nearer the anterior) j border of the axilla, and the edge of the coraco-brachialis sought as the first) rallying point. When this is found, it is drawn slightly forwards, when the) r median nerve will be seen in contact with it. If this be drawn on one side, the artery at once comes into view. By this method the artery can often be 1 » tied without the vein being seen, and it is impossible to miss the vessels by i 1 getting too far to the inner side. Ligature of the axillary is very rarely i i required for aneurism. It has been done as a distal operation for subclavian 1 -I aneurism, but without success.