I I I 2 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. prostate, guiding- its course by the finger in tlie rectum. The knife must 1x3 passed at one thrust to the apex of the prostate, and great care must be taken that it keeps accurately to the middle line. The external wound is then enlarged somewhat by moving the knife up and down, till the lower angle reaches to about half an inch from the anus. The knife is tlien withdrawn and a large probe-pointed director with a handle is passed through the prostatic urethra from the wound, and along this a female catheter, or an instrument of that shape fitted with rings by which it can be securely tied in, is guided into the bladder. The essential points of the operation are to keep accurately to the middle line and to open the urethra as it emerges from the prostate gland. Should the prostate itself be notched no harm will result. The instrument having been passed as above described is tied in and retained for some days or weeks as may be required. In a very large proportion of cases after the irritation of the passage of urine through the narrow stricture has been removed, a certain degree of relaxation will take place, and a few days after the operation it frequently happens that a catheter will pass through the stricture which was formerly “impermeable.” If this does not take place, an eflTort may subsequently be made by some further operative procedure to open up a way in the natural line of the urethra, and should this fail the patient may pass his urine permanently through the fistulous opening in the peringeum. This can be kept readily open by the occasional passage of a flexible bougie, which must be left in situ for a few hours. Cock records cases in which the patient passed his water in this way for twenty years or more. The opening being well in front of the prostate the control over the escape of urine is perfect, and the patient’s mode of micturition is assimilated to that of the other sex. This operation is best adapted to those cases in which the patient is sutieriug from actual retention at the time the Surgeon is called upon to operate. The objection to it is that it does nothing to relieve the stricture unless this should happen to yield after the irritation of the passage of urine is cut off. 2. Opening the Urethra behind the Stricture and cutting forwards. —This operation may be regarded as an extension of the preceding method. It is thus performed. A No. 8 silver catheter is passed down to the stricture; the patient is then tied up as if for lithotomy ; and the Surgeon, sitting in front, pushes a bistoury with the back turned towards the rectum into the raphe of the peringeum as far as the apex of the prostate, so as, if possible, to open the dilated urethra lehind the stricture. He then foncards through the stricture on to the point of the catheter, and, having thus opened a passage, endeavours to pass that instrument on into the bladder. I his operation, I have no hesitation in saying, is one of the most troublesome in surgery, I have more than once seen the most skilful operators foiled in their endeavours to accomplish it, and compelled to relinquish the operation without concluding it or succeed only after prolonged and most painful attempts. The difficulty consists in finding the posterior part of the urethia. When the tissues of the peringeum are hard and gristly from repeated attacks of inflammation and the presence of fistnhc, it is a most difficult mattei to dissect through such an altered mass and hit the urethra beyond it, and the difficulty is still further increased by the bleeding which is often very piofuse. Moreover, should the Surgeon find the posterior ]iart of the nretlira and cut forwards from it to the catheter in the urethra the chances arc that ns