217 A AVZlAJ^Y—n\'FlA MED ;SV1 C—TREA TMENT. I I t I I tlie operation, wliich gradually subsided. Some months afterwards the tumour began steadily to increase in size without pulsation, and finally the sac was laid open and the vessel tied from within, and the patient made a good recovery. On reviewing the causes of death, it may be reasonably hoped that the average ot success will be materially increased by the use of ligatures which do not divide the coats, and by the prevention of septic and spreading inflam- mation in the Avound by the employment of antiseptic dressings. Treatment of Inflamed Axillary Aneurism threatening Suppura- tion.—The case of an axillary aneurism becoming inflamed, and threatening to suppurate hefoi-e the Surgeon has had an opportunity of ligatming the sub- clavian arteiy, is one that is full of important practical considerations, and that admits of little delay ; for if the sac rupture, or be opened, fatal hemor- rhage is the inevitable result. It would obviously be impossible, in a case of spontaneous aneurism, with any fair chance of success to lay open the tumour, timi out the coagula, and ligature the vessel above and below the mouth of the sac ; the coats of the artery, being not only diseased, but still further softened by inflammation and supervening suppuration, Avould not be in a condition to hold a ligature. There are tAvo other courses open—viz., ligature of the sub- clavian, or amputation at the shoulder-joint; and in the selection of one or other of these, the Surgeon must be guided by the progress the disease has made, the condition of the limb as to circulation and temperatime, and the solidity or fluidity of the contents of the tumour. If the tumour be of moderate size and circumscribed, and the arm of a good temperature and not very oedematous, ligahire of the artery may hold out a reasonable chance of success. It is true that this is but a chance : for the blood Avill, immediately after the noose is tied, be carried by the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries into the subscapular and circumflex, and by them into the axillary at no great distance from the mouth of the sac ; or it may enter directly into the mouth of the latter, if the subscapular or circumflex should chance to take their origin from the dilated portion of the vessel. Hence, the only safeguard against the supervention of haemorrhage as soon as the sac has burst or been opened, or has discharged its contents, Avill be the occlusion by thrombosis of that portion of the artery which intervenes between these tAA'o collateral branches and its mouth, or the accidental entanglement m the latter of a mass of laminated fibrine. Yet, in the circumstances as to the condition of tumour and limb that have just been mentioned, it Avould be but right for the Surgeon to give the patient a chance of preserving his arm. > 'hould, howeA'er, hmmon’hage occur on or after the discharge of the con- nts of the sac, the subclavian having previously been ligatured, AA'hat should e done ? If the bleeding be moderate, an attempt should be made to arrest it J plugging the Avound, and by the application of a compress and bandage. If It recur, or be so profuse as to threaten the life of the patient, Avhat course 8 ould the Surgeon then pursue ? Tavo lines of procedure arc open to him : Cl er to cut through the pectoral muscles so as to lay the sac open fully, and attempt to include the bleeding orifice betAveen two ligatures ; or to amputate at the shoulder-joint. If a Surgeon were to undertake the first of these alternatives in a case of spontaneous aneurism, of which alone Ave are noAv speaking, he Avould, in all