28o inflammation OF BONE AND ITS EFFECTS. long bones, most commonly the tibia, femur or humerus, are found to be swollen and acutely tender. At first the skin is pale, but it soon becomes i reddened. By the fourth or fifth day, or sometimes not till the end of a week, j distinct fluctuation is recognized, often extending over the whole of the shaft ' 1 of the affected bone. At this time on jnoving the limb, distinct, though ; i somewhat soft crepitus may be felt, and it will then be found that one, or some- | ^ times both the epiphyses may be loosened from the diaphysis. As a rule the joints escape, but occasionally one or both of the articulations into which the i , bone enters become distended with fluid. If at this stage an incision be - made into the swollen parts down to the bone, a large quantity of pus escapes, , and on inserting the finger the greater part of the diaphysis may be felt to be ; denuded of its periosteum. All this time the febrile disturbance persists, and by the end of a week may assume the ordinary characters of pyaemia. 1 Symptoms of pneumonia, pleurisy and pericarditis may superv’ene and death take place before the abscess has been opened. The disease does not, however, ahvays run this typical course. The following are the chief modifications met ; with. The threatened suj)puration in some very rare cases does not take place. The inflammation of the periosteum gradually subsides in intensity, ; and assumes the osteoplastic form. A case of this kind ocemTed lately in University College Hospital in a youth aged about 19. No suppuration took place, ' the acute symptoms rapidly subsided, and the femur became gradually enlarged j to more than double its natural size throughout the whole shaft, from forma- 1 tion of new bone under the periosteum. In other cases, although pus forms early, the extent to which the periosteum is raised from the bone is more limited, being confined to one end or the middle of the shaft. In these cases the course of the disease is usually less acute, and the abscess may become localized and gradually point towards the surface. Separation of the epiphyses is by no means a constant occurrence ; the younger the patient the more likely it is to occur. Bilh’oth states that a disease of exactly the same character may ; occur in adults, but this is somewhat doubtful. Pathology.—Much difference of opinion still exists as to the exact nature of this disease and its point of origin. Holmes, and with him most English Surgeons, regard it as an acute diffuse inflammation commencing in the ! periosteum. Dent and others have published cases proving that at any rate it often arises in this way. In Germany and France it is more commonly i described as acute osteo-myelitis, and is believed to commence in the medulla. ! There is no doubt that in fatal cases it is very common to find the medulla j inflamed and often suppurating, but this is by no means constant, and in | many cases at least is evidently secondary. In a case which lately occuiTed in University College Hospital, a section of the bone showed the medulla to be inflamed on one side only, in contact with the part of the compact tissue which was denuded of its periosteum, the remainder of the maiTow being perfectly healthy. The inflammation was evidently of a more recent date than that of the periosteum. Others have supposed that the compact tissue is primarily affected, but of this there is no evidence. That the inflammation is infective in character is shown by its tendency to spread, and by the fre- quency with which it is followed by pyaemia, even before the abscess has been opened. Micro-organisms have been repeatedly demonstrated in the pus when first evacuated, but no specific form has yet been proved to be invariably associated with the disease. The hypothesis suggested as an explanation of