309 TUMO uns—EXOSTOSES. -1 I some instances it is hereditary ; but, in general, it occurs •w ithout any distinct or ajipreciable exciting cause. It is met Avith chiefly in the young, developing about the age of puberty. Exostosis appears to originate in tAVO Avays ; being either primarily formed as true bone dcA'eloping from periosteuiiA^ or being the result of the ossification of an enchoudroma. Exostoses are of tAA’o kinds—the one hard and compact, the other softer and more spongy. The hard, or Ivory Exostosis, is usually single, rarely multiple. It is developed from fibrous tissue, but in structure differs both in appearance and composition from normal bone. It is extremely compact and Avhite, having a section closely resembling that of ivory, but possessing a true bony structure, HaA’ersian canals, lacunm, and lamellm. In chemical composition, it is found to differ from healthy bone in containing more of the phosphate and less of the carbonate of lime, and also in the proportion of animal matter being- smaller. This kind of exostosis groAVS principally from the flat bones, and loAver jaAv, and, as it is generally of small size, seldom produces much in- conreuience, unless it project into and compress important parts. Thus, Cloquet relates the case of a tumour of this kind groAAung from the pubic bone, and perforating the bladder ; and it is occasionally found to project into the orbit, or from the inner table of the skull, upon the brain. When exostosis is left to itself, it may become stationary after a time. In some instances it has been known to necrose, and to slough away, as it were, from the parts in which it has been situated. Of this termination Hilton and Boyer relate instances. The Spongy or Cancellons Exostoses grow more rapidly, often attain a considerable size, and are very commonly multiple. When multiple, they are then frequently symmetrical in their aiTangement, and are occasionally hereditary through several generations. Exostoses of this form are developed from cartilage. They commence almost invariably at the line of junction of an epiphysis with the shaft, and usually before puberty. When they appear at a later period it has been suggested that they arise from a portion of the cartilage of the epiphysis that has escaped ossification. When groAA'ing they are covered with a thin layer of cartilage, but should this Ixjcome completely ossified, growth ceases and the tumour remains stationary. They are then composed of a thin layer of compact tissue surrounding ordinary cancellous bone ; opposite the base of the tumour the normal compact tissue is wanting, so that the cancellous tissue of the tumour is continuous Avith that of the bone from Avhich it is groAving. The exostoses of young subjects thus frequently cease to increase Avhen general growth comes to an end. Those commencing after that time shoAV more continuous groAAdh, and more urgently require surgical interference. Spongy exostoses are usually pedun- culated : they are in’egularly lobulated on the surface, sometimes resembling the head of a cauliflower. Their most common seats are the lower end of the femur, the upper end of the tibia and the upper end of the humerus. Their structure has been described figured with Tumours (Vol. I., p. 087). The Symptoms of exostosis are simply those produced by a hard and sloAvly growing tumour, connected Avith a bone and pushing foi’AA’ards the soft parts coA'cring it. In many cases it produces serious inconvenience by its pressure, either upon neighbouring organs or mucous canals ; or it may occa- sion ulceration of the skin lying above it. In some cases, exostosis of a long