MUCOUS NASAL POLYPUS. 549 }[ucous Polyp, as well as the Sarcomatous or Fleshy, and the Maliynanl Polyp. The term, however, should properly be confined to a soft and pendulous mucous growth ; the fleshy aud malignant polypi being mere varieties of fibrous, myeloid or other sarcomatous tumours, springing from the bones in the nasal fossm, or from the ethmoidal and sphenoidal cells. The true Mucous Nasal PolyTP is a soft, moist, gelatinous tumour, of a gi’eyish-yellow colour when lodged in the nasal fossm ; but when it descends into the anterior nares, or beyond them, and is exposed to the air, it becomes of a reddish-brown or purple tint, and somewhat shrivelled on the surface. It is usually lobulated, pedunculated, or bottle-shaped ; and not very vascular except at the root, where it is permeated by thin-walled vessels that bleed freely on the slightest touch. In structure it is soft and homogeneous to the naked eye. If cut across and squeezed a large quantity of thin fluid flows from it, and the mass becomes reduced to a small proportion of its original bulk. Mucous polypi are fonned by an overgrowth of the mucous and sub- mucous tissue of the nose. They are covered completely by mucous mem- brane with ciliated epithelium, the cilia of which may be seen in active movement under the microscope after removal. The mucous membrane may or may not contain glands ; occasionally the surface is pitted by the orifices of glands of considerable size. The tissue which forms the bulk of the tumour is composed of delicate bands of connective tissue separated from each other by an abundant mucous fluid. Amongst the fibres are numerous cells either rounded or presenting the stellate form found in true mucous tissue (see Myxoma, Yol. I., p. 988, Fig. 377). The whole mass is abundantly supplied by vessels. Occasionally polypi are found, growing fr’om the lower part of the nares, covered with tessellated epithelium. The tumour may grow from any point of the surface of the turbinate and ethmoid bones, and has indeed, though veiy rarely, been obseiwed to project into the nose from the fr'ontal sinuses and antrum. Polypi most frequently grow from the middle spongy bone, sometimes from the inferior turbinate bone, and in rare cases they are said to have been seen springing from the roof of the nares, but never from the septum. The polypi are usually numerous and of all sizes ; as they increase they commonly extend forwards into the anterior nares, but, when large, they may be seen to reach into the pharynx, hanging down behind the palate. Symptoms.—The symptoms occasioned by the presence of nasal polypi depend on the interference with respiration and speech, which they occasion. Kes})iration through the affected nostril is impeded, the patient being unable to blow through it when directed to do so ; and his speech is thick and nasal, fl’here arc snuffling and mucous discharge from the nostril : aud all these symptoms are worse in damp than in dry weather. On examining the interior of the nose, by opening the nostril widely Avith the forceps or nasal speculum (Fig. GOO), and then directing the patient to blow down, the loAver end of the polyp may be distinctly seen, and, if large, Avill descend to a level with or even beyond the nasal aperture. By the introduction of a probe, the size and extent of the tumour, together wdth the position of its pedicle, may be readily ascertained. As it grows, it imj)rcsses changes on the shape of neighbouring bones, producing expansion and flattening of the nose ; and, interfering Avith the floAV of team doAvn the nasal duct, occasions a Avaterv state of the eyes, which, together Avith the change of shape in the features, and