I 120 DISEASES OF THE URETHRA. portion of the abdominal wall; but it may reach the costal cartilages before proving fatal. The Constitutional Disturlance is always very great. At first there is high fever, Avith a rapid full pulse ; but the symptoms speedily assume the form met with in acute septic poisoning. The tongue becomes broAvn and dry ; there may be vomiting ; the pulse becomes small and very rapid ; muttering delirium sets in, ending in insensibility, and death quickly follows. The Treatment consists in making a free and ready outlet for the urine as early as possible. This should be done, as soon as extravasation is knoAvn to have occurred, by a deep incision into the middle of the perinaeum. So soon as any pain and throbbing, with diffused SAvelling, occur in the perinaeum, with redness and more or less oedema of the scrotum, the patient should be drawn to the end of the bed and placed in the position for lithotomy. The Surgeon should next introduce his left index-finger into the rectum, so that the gut may not be wounded, and then pushing a long sharp-pointed bistoury deeply in the raphe of the perinaeum, cut upward to a sufficient extent into the extravasation, and in the direction of the urethra. A catheter should then, if possible, be introduced, secured in the bladder, and left unplugged, with an India-rubber tube attached ; in this Avay no further extravasation can occur, an outlet will be afforded to matters already effused, and the greater part of the urine will commonly be found to escape after a time by the aperture thus made. Should the case not be seen until extraAmsation has spread Avidely, a free incision should be made not only into the perinaeum, extending to the aperture in the urethra, but also into the scrotmn on each side of the septum, into the penis, and wherever else swelling is observed. The sole chance of safety for the patient lies in making these free incisions, through which the parts may, to a certain extent, empty themselves. However extensive the infiltration and serious the mischief may be, we need not despair of the patient if a free outlet can be obtained for the acrid and putrescent urine ; and in order to secure this, the infiltration must be folloAved by incisions as high as it extends. The parts must, at the same time, be coA'ered with some warm and moist antiseptic dressing. The best is boracic acid lint moistened Avith warm boracic acid lotion. If tliis be not at hand, the surface may be greased Avith carbolic oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil and fomenta- tions made of oakum Avrung out of boiling water may be applied. These applications are cleaner than poultices, and should always be preferred. The patient will often experience great relief from frequent hot hip-baths, Condy’s fluid or boracic acid being added to the water. In this way the parts can be most thoroughly cleaned without pain to the patient. If the patient survive the immediate impression upon the system produced by the gangrene and the urinary infiltration, he must be prepared to go through a severe trial to his constitutional poAA^ers, in the separation of the sloughs, the profuse discharge, and other sources of irritation that are set up. During this period he Avill require abundant support—the brandy-aud-egg mixture, ammonia and bark, AA'ith any nourishment that he can take ; and much attention should be paid to the removal of the sloughs, to providing a ready outlet for discharges, and to keeping the patient as clean and as free fr’om all local irritation as possible. Perineal Abscess.—By perineal abscess is meant a collection of pus in the perinaeum situated under the deei) layer of the superficial fascia of this