688 OPERATIONS ON THE ATR-TUPE AND CHEST. mickllo lino parallel to the intended incision, its point being made to rea])pear so as to pnnctiire tlie tracliea in tn'o places, and to get a firm hold on it. The opening in the trachea is then made, the hnife being, bold hy the blade about half an inch from its ])oint, so that it is not possible to transfix the trachea and jmnctnre the cesophagns. The incision must lie made from below upwards, and should include about three rings of the trachea. The tube may now be easily inserted by drawing one lip of the opening well carried downwards for at least an inch and a half. The muscles are exposed and separated as in the previous ojieration. In this situation the sterno- thyroids will probably come into view after the sterno-hyoids have been drawn aside. The isthmus, having been exposed, must be drawn upwards with a blunt hook. At this stage of the operation, the large veins forming the inferior thyroid plexus must be carefully avoided, and if the wound be very deep it is safer to use the scalpel to a limited extent, dilating the deeper parts of the AYOund with its handle or w’ith a director. In young children the thymus gland will appear in the loAver part of the incision, and require to be pushed doAvnwards. Opening the trachea leneath the isthmus is seldom necessary, but should it be unavoidable the tissue of the thyroid body may be diA’ided AA'ith but little bleeding if the knife be kept accurately to the middle line. Lcmjmjo-tmclm- tomy, in AA'hich the cricoid cartilage is divided Avith one or tAA'o of the up})er rings of the trachea, is occasionally perfoimed intentionally, but more often accidentally, in young children, the cricoid being mistaken for a ring of the trachea. The accident, if such it can be called, is not productiA’O of any injury to the patient. The question as to the safety of the administration of chloroform in these operations often occurs. I belieA*c that it may ahvays be given safely except in cases of extreme syncopal asphyxia, AA'here, as sensibility no longer exists, it is unnecessary. Laryngeal inflammation and obstruction are always associated Avith so much spasm, more particularly in children, that it Avill often 1)6 found that the patient respires more easily and fully AA'hilst under the influence of chloroform than before its inhalation Avas commenced ; and, as the anaesthesia materially facilitates the operation by doing away Avith his Avrithings and struggliugs, I iiiA'ariably have recourse to it AA'heu I perform foi’wards Avith the hook that has been inserted parallel to it, Avhile the other is de- pressed Avith the end of the tube. If this be done, it slips in AA’ithout any diffi- culty. It must then be retained by tapes round the neck. Fig. 755.—Operation of Tracheotomy. If the trachea is to be opened heloiv the isthmus of the thyroid body, the incision must commence immediately beloAA- the cri- coid cartilage, and l>e