1 16 8 SPEC I A L A NEURISMS. the operation, and which consequently might liave developed equally if none had been performed. We have yet to consider the operation in which both arteries are ligatured. This double opei-ation may either be performed tuilh an intei'val between the application of the two ligatures, sufficient for the establishment of collateral circulation ; or the two vessels may be ligatured simultaneously. The fonner plan has been adopted in six cases ; the latter in twenty-one ; not a sufficient number for any safe deduction. Of the six cases in which an interval inter- vened between the two operations the tumour seems to have been practically cured in three, in two cases no relief was obtained, and one died directly from the operation. In the twenty-one cases in which the vessels were ligatured simultaneously, death took place directly from the operation in four ; the disease was unrelieved, and terminated fatally in eight ; in two the cause of death is somewhat uncertain, and in seven great benefit or a practical cure resulted. It is interesting to note that the later cases have been the most successful, and it is reasonable to hope that this is due to modern improve- ments in the methods of tying arteries and dressing Avounds. The cases, hoAV- ever, are not yet sufficiently numerous or free from modifying circumstances to enable us to draw any certain inference from them: we must therefore revert to the principle on Avhich this operation should be undertaken. This Avill differ materially, according to Avhether the two arteries are ligatured simultaneously, or Avith a sufficient interval for the re-establishment of collateral circulation. If an interval of two years, as in the first case, or even of two-and-a-half i months, as in the second instance, be allowed to elapse betAveen the ligature of j the carotid and that of the subclavian, the operation reduces itself essentially to that of the ligature of a single artery, which, as has already been shown, is insufficient to induce those changes in the sac that are necessary for the accom- plishment of a cure. If the patient sur\dve the effect of the ligature of the carotid for a few weeks, sufficient time will have been afforded for the proximal end of the subclavian, the vertebral artery, and the thyroid axis to take upon themselves a great increase of development—the collateral circulation being carried on by them and not by the left carotid ; so that, by the time that the subclavian comes to be ligatured beyond the scaleni, the sac will still continue to be traversed by a cimrent of blood for the supply of the branches of the sub- clavian, dilated beyond their normal size, in consequence of the task of supply- ing the right side of the neck, face, head, and brain being principally thrown upon them. This current through the proximal end of the subclaA'ian, increased as it Avill have been by the whole of that blood which is destined to supply the place of that Avhich should pass by the carotid, will place the sac in nearly the same condition as it was before the ligature ; and Avill consequently, for the reason that lias already been given, be too poAverful for a cure to take place in the course of its stream. It noAv remains only for us to consider the simultaneous ligature of both vessels—an operation that has been performed for innominate aneurism tiventy- j one times. In reasoning upon the simultaneous ligature of the two A’essels, ^ Ave must consider tAVO points : 1. In Avhat condition do aa'C place the sac ? 2. Is the danger of the patient much increased ? ! So far as the sac is concerned, it is impossible to place it in a better coudition | for the deposit of laminated fibrin ; tAVO-thirds of the blood fioAving through |