705 TAPPING THE PERICARDIUM. *i r main object of the operation, tliis may 1)C secured by leaving the cannula m the wound; or, if this be too short to serve as a free dram, it may be withdrawn and a rigid tube of some kind substituted. I have fouu a full-sized flexible prostatic catheter, cut of proper length, to be the most :nseful. Should it be necessary to open up the lung-substance more freely, this may ■^Dest be done by means of dressing forceps, as in Hilton s plan of opening eep abscesses. There will be less danger of hemorrhage than if a scalpel be sed. No antiseptics are needed when the contents of the cavity are already ecomposing; free drainage is all that is required; and all antiseptics, if ijectcd, iiTitate the bronchi and lung. Should emphysema occur, as I have seen happen very extensively, at the ; me of the operation, no apprehension need arise, as the air will be absorbed i the usual way. If the intercostal space is too narrow to admit the trochar, a piece of rib ^lay be removed by the method already described. ' Tapping the PEmcARDimr.—In hydrops pericardii, attended with immi- rent danger of death from pressure, it will be necessary to tap the peri- irdium. This may be done by making an incision about half an inch in . ngth through the skin and areolar tissue in the fifth intercostal space, in the rdiac region, and then slowly and carefully introducing a fine trochar at luat point where percussion and auscultation have indicated the greatest mount of fluid. The trochar should be passed obliquely ; and, as soon as it •pears to have entered the pericardium, the stylet should be sheathed and e cannula pushed forwards until the serum escapes. The operation is, however, much more safely done with the aspirator, •om experiments made on the dead body, Dieulafoy concludes that it may performed in the fourth or fifth left interspace, the fifth being perhaps eferable, as it is nearer the apex of the heart and is a more dependent •nation. The puncture may be made from 2 to 2^ inches from the left prgin of the sternum. The spot having been selected should be marked |fth ink. If the patient be anasarcous, the interspace must be determined by refully pressing away the (jcdema. The needle to be employed should l-ry with the case. If the diagnosis be certain. No. 2 (one millimetre, or j.ughly inch in diameter), should be used; but if the diagnosis be I .certain. No. 1, half this size, should be chosen, as W'ith this needle, it is :d, the heart may be punctured with impunity. The best form of aspirator VOI.. II. z z