lO SURGICAL DISEASES OF THE SKIN. growth compared to the ulceration, and tlie prolonged course of the case, render the diagnosis easy. From tertiary sTjjjhilis it is clearly distinguished by the duration of the case ; in syphilitic ulceration “ the rate of destruction is measured by weeks ; in rodent cancer, by years.” There is also an absence of all other signs of constitutional syphilis. From ordinary lujms it is dis- tinguished by the age and healthy constitutional state of the patient, by the singleness of the ulcer, and the absence of the pink, scaly, or oedematous skin frequently found around lupus. Lupus may cicatrize and cease at any time ; rodent ulcer never does. Lupus rarely causes death ; rodent ulcer is always eventually fatal, if unrelieved by treatment. Pathology.—The microscopic characters of the solid infiltrating substance have been examined by Moore, Hulke, and 0. Warren, all of whom have found some parts which presented appearances identical -with epithelioma. Moore found this in the diploe of the frontal bone, and Hulke in a part of the globe of the eye implicated in the disease. The greater part of the growth presents characters differing but little from those of ordinary gTanulation-tissue. Moore was of opinion that the growth commenced in all cases in a pimple identical in structure with epithehoma, but that this character was lost as the growth extended, but could be readily assumed again in “certain situations or in convenient textures.” The conclusions at which Dr. Collins Warren arrives as the result of his researches, are, that rodent ulcer is a form of epithelial cancer; and that it differs from the more ordinary forms of epithelioma in the small size of Fig. 419.—Vertical Section of Eodent Ulcer—«, Epidermis balls—&, Stroma (after C. Warren). the cells. The arrangement of these epithelial cells may be tubular and alveolar (Fig. 419). Later observations by T. C. Fox, Thin, and others, have generally con- firmed the observations of Moore, Hulke, and Warren ; but these observers are not agreed as to the starting point of the growth, whether it commences in the sweat-glands, the sebaceous follicles or the hair-follicles. From the foregoing description we have seen that rodent ulcer is a growth, exhibiting a power of continuous increase. It is composed of cells of an epithelial type, advancing in processes or columns, in spaces formed by a vascular tissue resembling ordinary granulation-tissue. It infiltrates and