960 UJUNARY CALCULUS AND LITHOTOMY. but rico-milk or lii>-ht pudding for diet during the first tliree or four days. After this some l)roth may he allowed, and the rpiality of the food gradually improYcd. Occasionally, liowever, it may he necessary to de])art fi-om this routine system of dieting tlie patient after lithotomy ; and I have, Avith great advantage, alloAved Avine, and even brandy, a day or tAVO after the operation. At the end of tliirty-six or forty-eight hours the tube may be removed, tlie sides of the incision by tliat time liaving Ijocome glazed over, and little danger of infiltration existing. The patient, Avho up to this time has been lying on. his back, should then be directed to change his posture, first to one side and then to the other. The buttocks and hips should be AA’-ell oiled or smeared Avith vaseline, so as to prevent the irritating effects of the urinary drainage. The urine continues to flow entirely through the Avound for the first four or five days. About this time it fL’ec|uently suddenly ceases to do so, escaping by tlie urethra. This is OAving to the prostate becomiug turgid from inflammatory swelling, and thus blocking up the aperture in it ; but as this swelling goes doAvn, in the course of a day or tAvo, the urine usually escapes by the Avound again, and continues to do so in gradually decreasing quantities until the aperture is finally closed, Avhich happens usually at about the end of fourteen or eighteen days ; though in patients who have sufiered from phosphatic cal- culus it sometimes takes a longer period, owing to the broken state of the general health. Should the Avound fall into a sloughy state, the patient must be put on a very generous diet, even a free allowance of stimulants : and the tincture of benzoin may be daily applied. When slow in healing, it may be stimulated Avith nitrate of silver applied to the bottom; and, should a fistulous aperture be left, that may be touched Avith the electric cautery. After the operation, appropriate constitutional treatment should be continued for some time in order to preA'^ent a recurrence of the disease. Lateral Lithotomy in Boys under the age of puberty is, perhaps, the most successful of all the great operations in Surgery. It is performed much in the same way as in the male adult; there are, however, some points of modification or of difference in the oiAeration AA'hen jDractised on young subjects. The folloAving are worthy of note, and should be remembered by the Surgeon in proceeding to operate on children. 1. The urethra in boys will commonly be found larger than would perhaps at first be expected from their age, readily admitting a jSTo. 8 or 9 staff. 2. The perinaeum is usually proportionately more Avascular in boys, in consequence of the straining produced by the irritation of the calculus. .3. There is often from the same cause a tendency to prolapsus of the rectum, 4. As the prostate is a rudimentary organ in the boy, the deep incision necessarily passes beyond its limits into the neck of the bladder. 5. In boys the tissues are more yielding, and more readily lacerable under the finger. 6. The most important point, hoAA^ever, is, that in the boy the bladder lies high, being rather in the abdomen than in the pehus ; hence, it is of import- ance to raise the point of the knife someAvhat more than in the adult in making the deep incision, and to be careful that it do not slip into the tissues l)etAveen the rectum and the bladder, Avhich may happen unless this precaution be taken.