417 CARIES OF SPINE—TUBERCULAR NATURE. 11. K 15 •e The causes of the disease when it commences in the bone are, first, injury i an unhealthy subject, and, secondly, deposit of tubercle. The fact that le most common starting point is the soft gTowing tissue between the bone ad the epiphysial layer of cartilage, and that it is usually situated at the iterior part which would be most powerfully compressed during forcible if exion of the spine, is strong evidence that the primary cause of the disease frequently an injury. In some cases there is a clear history of injury, such ^ I; a fall, but as the disease is most common in young children and commences I sidiously, the history cannot as a rule be implicitly relied upon. That disease is in a very large proportion of cases due to the dejwsit of berde is now almost universally recognized. The evidence in proof of this the following : Fii*st, the disease frequently commences in many indepen- nt centres, often in the bodies of different vertebrae, and in situations, such the front of a body or in its central parts which are little exposed to injury, i i^ondly, in patients dying of advanced caries affecting one part of the spine sloarote centres of disease in an earlier stage are frequently found in other j|-TtebKe. The granulation-tissue removed from these has been shown to i.|;utain non-vasculai’, caseating nodules presenting the characteristic anatomi- jf structure of the tubercle-nodule or -follicle (Yol. I., p. 1050), and further ^I) presence of the tubercle-bacillus has been demonstrated in many cases, fll.irdly, the early caseation of the inflammatory products and the chronic I opuration correspond with the course followed in tubercular inflammations ewhere. And, lastly, a considerable proportion of patients dying of caries the spine are found to be infected with general tuberculosis. In whatever way the disease commences the most common cause of its '■sistence is the mechanical irritation of the diseased surfaces by the friction [movement, aggravated by the weight of the parts of the body above the K!cted vertebrae. In other cases the presence of sequestra, which cannot 1 a way out, may keep up the disease indefinitely. It seems probable that ies originally tubercular may become simple in character as the disease gresses. The original tubercular centre may completely caseate and ten, exciting inflammation in the tissue around it, and be thus eliminated, ! subsequent progress of the disease being due to the mechanical causes ve mentioned. In other cases the tubercular process may infect the ’ounding parts and maintain its characteristics to the end. know of no exact description of any 'primary pathological changes talcing ■e in the interverrtehral discs. As before stated, we are not in a position to y that disease may originate in these structures, but by the time the case • les to be examined after death the fibro-cartilage has disappeared, and we only the signs of rarefying osteitis in the vertebrae on each side. Lusclika es that there is a synovial cavity in each disc, and that the lobes of the ) correspond to the villi of a synovial membrane. If this be true it would n this structure that any primary inflammation or deposit of tubercle ■Id take place, and not in the dense fibrous and fibro-cartilaginous layers ling the outer zones of the disc. he nature of the pathological changes being borne in mind, the coarser bid appearances are easily understood. *ry caries, or caries without suppuration, forms the simplest variety of the It affects usually a limited portion of the spine, often two vertebral with the intervening intervertebral disc. The destruction of the bodies