PATHOLOGY OF IXTRAORBITAL ANEUlilSH. 1C)1 Bask, who referred the symptoms to a rupture of the ophthalmic artery and tlie development of a circumscribed traumatic aneurism of that vessel ; this also has not been demonstrated by post-mortem observation. Xunneley doubted the correctness of this view, and referred the symptoms, iu some cases, to a jieculiar vascular condition of the parts, dependent more upon an affection of the veins than the arteries, and somewhat analogous to what takes place in the exophthalmos of bronchocele. He pointed out also that in other cases an aneurism exists, but that it is not in the orbit, but behind it in the cavernous sinus. Iu these latter cases he showed that the prominence of the eyeball is due to distension of the veins of the orbit from obstruction to the return of blood, and the pulsation is communicated to these distended veins by the aneurism in the cavernous sinus. This view is fully confirmed by the post-mortem records quoted above. In those cases in which nothing beyond obstruction to the return of blood through the cavernous sinus and conse- quent dilatation of the orbital veins has been found the cause of the pulsation is not so evident. In other cases it is perhaps possible that some derangement of the vaso-motor influence of the sympathetic may really occasion the symptoms of increased vascular acti\fity that are so characteristic of the disease. The secondary phenomena that are observed in these cases, such as conges- tion of the eyelids, of the palpebral and ocular conjunctive, amounting even to chemosis in many cases, and the muddiness of the aqueous humour and I j lens, are doubtless due to an interference with the return of blood from these parts through the ophthahnic vein, to the consequent congestion of the smaller vessels and to effusion of serum into the subconjunctival areolar tissue. The protrusion of the eyeball is due to the vascular tumour, whatever its precise nature may be, and the derangement in vision to an alteration in the axis of the eye consequent on this extrusion. It is remarkable that the hruit in these cases should Idc so loud, not only to the patient’s own senses, but to the ear of the Surgeon; and this can be accounted for only by the proximity of the cranial bones, which may act as conductors of sound. Diagnosis.—The Diagnosis of pulsating tumour is sufficiently easy, but it is just as difficult to determine accurately the cause of the disease. It is pro- bable that nearly all the traumatic cases are due to aneurismal varix of the carotid artery and cavernous sinus. The sudden onset of the disease, with a crack or snap in idiopathic cases, would lead to a presumption that a small aneurism of the carotid had given way into the sinus. Congeuital cases are probably aneurisms by anastomosis. Beyond this accurate diagnosis of the pathological condition is hardly possible. The disease most likely to be mistaken for an intra-orbital aneurism is a pulsating sarcoma of the bones of the orbit. Iu this, however, the pulsation is less expansile and the peculiar harsh bruit is wanting. 'ruKATMKNT.—Tlic results of the cases that have been referred to above, the uncertainty in which we often are as to the real jiathology of this disease, and the certainty that in some instances at least there is no true aneurismal tumour, would justify the .Surgeon in having recourse to medical treatment, aided by digital compression of the carotid, and, perhaps, the ap))lication of ice to the forehead, before proceeding to operate. That these means arc oce,asionally successful, there can be no doubt. Gio])])i, of Padua, has recorded a case in which an intraorbital aneurism of great severity was cured