882 DISEASES OF THE LARGE INTESTINE AND ANUS. The Operation for fistula in ano should not be performed indiscriminatelv in all cases and at all periods of the disease. If the fistula he dependent upoit stricture of the gut, and more especially if this be of a malignant character, it is evident that no operation can be attended with a chance of success, and none should be attempted. So, also, if the patient be cachectic and broken in health, more especially if suffering from tubercular disease of the lungs, it is well to improve his constitutional powers before undertaking an operation, lest the wound that results may not readily cicatrize. It is well also to wait until the disease has assumed a somewhat chronic form before proceeding to the division of the sphincter ; if this be done early after the bursting of the abscess, or at any time if there be much inflammation going on, the wound is apt to assume a somewhat sloughy condition, and to heal with great difficulty. The most important question usually connected with the o])eration of fistula, is the propriety of performing it in phthisical subjects. It is a well-known fact that fistula in ano is especially apt to occur in consumiDtive individuals, and it is often a nice point to determine whether an operation should or should not be performed in them ; how far the drain from the fistula may keep up or even generate the tendency to phthisis, or how far it may be salutary in acting as a counter-irritant, and in preventing the morbid con- dition of the lung from developing. Theophilus Thompson has stated that the co-existence of fistula with phthisis appears to retard the progress of the latter disease, acting as a derivative ; and in some instances this may be so. I have, however, in several cases found considerable advantage result from operating for fistiiki] in the early stages of phthisis, or in suspected cases of that disease, the patient’s health having considerably improved after the healing of the fistula. But in confirmed, and still less advanced phthisis, no operation in Fig. 812.— Probe-pointed llistoui'y for Fistula. Fig. S13.—Operation for Fistula in Ano. should ever be practised ; as the wound will not heal, and the patient must be weakened by the additional discharge. The operation for compleie fistula should be performed in the following way. The bowels having been ivell cleared out the day before with a dose of castor-oil, and an enema adminis- tered on the morning of the operation, the patient should be laid on his left side, with the nates projecting over the edge of the bed; a probe must then be passed through the fistulous track into the rectum, and the Surgeon, introducing the forefinger into the gut, feels for the end of the instrument; he then passes a short strong-bladed probe-pointed bistoury of about the size and shape of that reiiresented in the annexed figure (81 through the fistula, using the probe as a guide, though in some cases this may conveniently be dispensed with. When he feels the end of the knife projecting into the rectum through the internal ajierture of the fistula, he hooks his fore finger over it (Fig. 813), after withdrawing the probe, and by a sweeping and | jwessing cut, raising the handle of the instrument at the same time that hc|