PARTIAL EXCISIOX OF THE UPPER JAW. 587 Maxilla.—Althoiigli I do not approved of the practice. But other Surgeons, whose views on the subject are entitled to the highest respect, advocate and practise this proceeding. For my own part, I look upon the practice as unscientific in principle and dis- astrous in its results. It is applicable only to the softer kinds of tumours : and these are chiefly sarcomata. Now I hold it to be impossible by gouging, scooping, chiselling, or scraping, to extirpate these completely from any bone in which they may be developed. It is impossible in this way fairly to go beyond the limits of the disease into healthy structures. Tissues that appear and feel sound, are in reality infiltrated : and hence speedy recurrence takes place. This has happened in every case in which I have seen this operation practised ; and the recurrent is Avorse in all its features—more rapid, more luxuriant, more malignant—than the primary disease. In fact, there is no reason why, in operations on the jaws, we should depart from that principle which is found necessary in operations on other parts for the removal of malignant growths, of being guided in the extent of the removal by the anatomical boundaries of the part affected, and not by the apparent extent of diseased structure. It seems to me to be as reasonable to scoop a myeloid or a malignant tumour out of the head of the tibia instead of amputating the affected bone, as it is to scrape it out of the antrum, instead of extirpating the superior maxilla. 2. Paarbial Excision of the Superior consider the scooping away of the tumour from the antnun to be a proper or surgical procedure, I would not advocate the removal of more of the bones of the face than is abso- lutely necessaiy for the complete extirpation of the disease, more especially when that is not malignant. The disease may be limited either to the upper or to the lower part of the superior maxilla. In these cases, the practice of Sir W. Fergusson has led to great advances in our method of removing such disease with the least possible disfigurement and the least loss of bone. With regard to the external incisions in these cases, Fergusson has shown that they often need to be but very limited ; all that is necessary being a cut from the angle of the mouth upAvards and outwards through the cheek, or, in other cases, a slit through the upper lip in the mesial line, the knife being earned along the side of the columna into the nostril. By these simple incisions, this distinguished Surgeon has shoAvn, sufficient relaxation of i^rts can be obtained for the excision of the greater part of the superior maxillary' bone. In some cases, the malar bone and floor of the orbit Avill be found to bo sound. When this happens, they should both be left; and Avith this vieAV, after the cheek has lx;en incised as just described, a deep horizontal groove should be made Avith a narroAV straight-backed saAv beloAV the oiBit, directly across from the na.sal process of the maxillary to the edge of the malar bone. The forceps should now be ai)plied so as to cut dowmvards and outAvards from the Fig. 681.—Line.'i of Incision in Liston’s Operation for Excision of Upper Jaw.