346 DISEASES OF JOINTS. great deformity, and may entirely cripple the patient. It is met with some- times at a comparatively early age, especially in anaemic females. Chronic Rheumatoid Arthritis essentially consists in an organic change of structure in all the various component parts of the 'affected joint. The starting point of the disease appears in most cases to be the cartilage. The first change observed is a loss of polish and smoothness, gradually increasing till the surface becomes velvety in appearance. Microscopic examination shows that this change is due to the gradual conversion of the matrix into fibrous tissue, the fibrillm of which ai’e arranged at right angles to the surface. At the same time multijDlication of the cartilage cells takes place, so that the capsules are found to contain an excess of cells, which, however, retain the appearance of cartilage cells. The cartilage so altered is gradually worn away by the friction of the diseased surfaces against each other, until the bone is exposed. When this takes place the exposed bone becomes increased in density by the formation of new osseous tissue filling up the cancellous spaces. The new tissue may be true bone with lacunse, but in many cases it is excessively dense in structure, contains a great excess of lime-salts, and appears to be formed rather by calcification than by ossification of the medullary tissue of the cancellous spaces. The bony surfaces thus exposed are worn away, and greatly altered in shape by the friction of movement; at the same time they become highly polished, like ivory or porcelain—eburnated or 23orcelaneous as it is termed. In spite of the density of the structures thus formed, it is constantly being worn away by friction as long as motion is left in the joint, the next layer of cancellous tissue then undergoing the same change. These destructive processes commence and advance most rapidly in the central jDarts of the cartilages, and while they are in progress irregular cartilaginous outgrowths spring from the circumference, forming in many cases flange-like projections from t^he margins of the articular surfaces. These cartilaginous outgrowths are ossified at an early period, and thus form rounded irregular osteophytes, often reaching a very considerable size, and impeding or comjDletely abolishing the movements of the joint. The osteo- phytes of rheumatoid arthritis differ essentially from those formed round a carious joint. Their form and appearance have been very aptly compared to the gutterings of a wax-candle, while the osteophytes round a carious joint have the jagged form of stalactites. The fact that the former are developed from cartilage and the latter from gi’anulation-tissue, forms another distinc- tion between them. Occasionally isolated nodules of ossifying cartilage of a flattened form are found in the subserous tissue beneath the synovial mem- brane. In the early stages the ligaments and synovial membrane show but little change; but as the disease advances, the capsule of the joint becomes greatly thickened. The synovial membrane becomes opaque, and its fringes increased in size. In some cases this enlargement of the fr-inges is very considerable, the separate papillm reaching a gi’eat size, sometimes even half an inch in length. When this condition is very marked the term ViUmis Synovial Membrane is applied to it. In the free extremities of the enlarged papillm rounded or flattened nodules of cartilage may be formed. These some- times become broken from their attachments, and form loose bodies in the joint. In the earlier stages of rheumatoid artlmitis there may be a slight excess of synovia which is turbid, but eflusion never forms a marked feature of the disease, and hence the term dry is often ai^plied to it. I I f