DISEASES OF THE BREAST. 7i8 mamma affected by chronic interstitial inflammation (p. 714). They are usually multiple, and seldom reach any great size. They are also not uncommon in the indurated and atrophied breasts of old women, and when met with under these circumstances have been termed involution-cysts:' ll,etention-cysts arising independently of these conditions, or glandular cysts as they are often termed, may be multiple or single. xVs a good example of the multiple form the following case may l>e gi^'en. A youii'/ unmarried woman, in order to quiet a baby she had charge of, put it occa- sionally to her breast. This was followed by some pain and swelling, and a thin yellowish discharge from the nipple. Some months after, on examining the breast, a number of small fluctuating swellings, the largest about the size of a hazel nut, could be felt scattered through both breasts. They were most distinct in the neighbourhood of the areola. The discharge continued, and was a source of considerable annoyance. On pressing the cysts their contents were easily squeezed out through the nipple. The condition remained unchanged for about two years, in spite of belladonna and other external remedies. She then married and became pregnant. As the breast ; enlarged, the abnormal discharge gradually ceased, and after her confinement she was able to nurse her child without difficulty. ; Single cysts of the same nature are not uncommonly met with, and may I attain a considerable size. They form rounded or lobulated tumours, usually ■ imperfectly defined and painless, or neaOy so. When their contents can be j squeezed out at the nipple they are usually soft and fluctuating. Should the j duct become completely or partially blocked either from inflammatory indm’ation j of the surrounding tissue or, as in a case recorded by Eogeau, by a small papillaiy ' growth springing up in its interior, the cyst increases more rapidly in size, and becomes so tense as to be easily mistaken for a solid tumour. The causes of these cysts are uncertain. They seem usually to.arise from some injiuy or irritation of the breast. Butlin, who has recently published some interesting observations on these cysts, states that they usually occur after thirty-five, in women who have borne children, and in several cases appear to have arisen as the result of a blow. In some cases they may possibly be associated with some uterine affection. Cysts of this kind may become the seat of intra-cystic grou'tlis, composed of delicate branching papiUse, covered with epithelium of the same character as that lining the cyst-wall. These may at last completely fiU. the cavity, con- verting it into a solid tumour. These vascular papillae readily bleed, and have probably been the source of the bloody fluid which has been described as escaping from the nipple in some of these cases. It is possible that these tumours may become malignant, and be the starting-point of a peculiar form of cancer with columnar epithelium, occasionally met with in the breast, to be subsequently described. 2. Serous Cysts of the Breast.—These are believed to be formed, as elsewhere, by dilatation of the lymph-spaces of the areolar tissue, the wall of the cyst being formed of the surrounding connective tissue pressed together and subsequently thickened by new growth. The evidence of this mode of growth is not by any means perfect, but it seems the only possible explanation of their structure. Their walls are composed of delicate areolar tissue, lined internally with flattened endothelial cells like those of a lymphatic vessel. The contents are usually clear yellowish serous fluid, but may some-