IIERXIOTOMY—TREATMENT OF THE WOUND. 787 I I be (lone by pushing it back with as much gentleness as possible, and chiefly ; y by using the index-flngers. AVhen it has slipped up into tlie abdomen, the 'i omentum must be returned in the same way. In reducing the hernial pro- ij trusion, after the sac has been laid open, care should be taken that the margins ; ;i of this are flrmly held down by means of a pair of forceps ; lest it, together ' with its contents, be returned en masse, the stricture being undivided. After ; I reduction, the Surgeon should pass his finger up into the canal through which the hernia has descended, and feel that all is clear. ■ Treatment of the Sac.—There is no necessity to close the opening in the ?ac by sutures. It unites readily under the pressure of the dressing. If the r i patient be young and healthy, and not too exhausted by previous vomiting, ■. ‘he operation may be completed by ligature of the neck of the sac with strong irbolized catgut or silk, removal of the body of the sac and (in an inguinal or ubilical hernia) suture of the abdominal opening. Further experience is quired before it can be definitely stated how much this proceeding adds to e danger of the operation. Those who have adopted it speak highly of it id advise it in all cases in which no exceptional circumstances render it admissible. It should never be undertaken except in conjunction with icient antiseptic treatment durmg and after the operation. Treatment of the Wound.—After the operation is completed, whether e sac be removed or not, the wound must be brought together with sutures d a small drainage-tube inserted at the lower angle ; it is then (h’essed, : ordinar}’ principles, with some form of antiseptic dressing. Carbolic gauze, lofonn-wool, salicylic wool, or any other efficient antiseptic material may be ed. It must surround the wound for some distance, and a pad of the essing should be placed over the abdominal opening to prevent the pro- ision of the hernia during a fit of coughing or a muscular effort. The essing must be secured by a bandage, over which a single turn of elastic ibbing may be applied, passing over the abdominal opening to act as a truss, ire must be taken, that although the dressing is firmly applied undue pressure not exerted, lest it interfere with drainage and prevent the union of the mnd. This is particularly necessary if carbolic gauze be used, as the pad is t to cake into a solid mass, especially if the material be not of the best lality. In the absence of other dressings a pad of lint soaked in carbolic ' (1 in 10), or simple dry lint or cotton wool may be used. Water dressing ould always be avoided. In most cases the womid heals by the first inten- >n. Should suppuration occur the stitches must be removed and a light tiscptic dressing be applied, lest the pus, not finding a ready outlet, may her be diffused between the muscular planes of the abdominal wall, 3asioning sloughing or the formation of an abscess, or, return into the ntoneal cavity, exciting inflammation of it,—a result which I have more than 3e seen occur. After-Treatment.—The patient should be kept quiet in bed ; a dry hot inel laid over the abdomen, and the leg on the affected side bent over a ow. From .80 to KniL of laudanum may then be given, or 1 to } gr. of q(hia hypodermically. If the strangulation has been of very short dura- 1—under 2-f hours—and the gut but little congested, the patient may be left hoiit further medical treatment until the bowels act by themselves, unless (lie delayed for three or four days, when a caster-oil and gruel enema may ^iven. Ill all ca.ses in which the strangulation was of longer duration and 3 n 2